Common health problems in HIV-infected travelers to the (sub)tropics.	A study was conducted to estimate the incidence of health problems in HIV-infected travelers with various degrees of immunodeficiency to the (sub)tropics.
Effect of climatic factors on the epidemiology of rotavirus infection in children under 5 years of age in the city of Maracaibo, Venezuela]	Diarrhea is one of the most common problem of public health worldwide, specially in developing countries. In Venezuela, this affection must be weekly reported when it occurs in children under five years of age. During June 1993 to May 1995, 379 stool specimens were obtained from children under five years of age with diarrhea admitted in Hospital de Niños of Maracaibo, Venezuela. Control group was conformed by 93 asymptomatic children. The rotavirus RNA was extracted with phenol-chloroform and precipitated with ethanol. Finally, polyacrylamide-gel-electrophoresis (PAGE), followed by silver staining was employed for rotavirus detection. Our results showed 62 (16.4%) positive cases for rotavirus in symptomatic children and 9 (9.7%) in control group. The highest incidence was showed in the infants under one year of age (21.5%). The electrophoretic analysis revealed only one long electropherotype pattern in studied samples. It was observed a close relationship between the increase of rotavirus cases and the increase of the pluviometric index and a decrease of mean temperature observed during the period of study. Both variables determine the increase or decrease of viral infection in our region. This result shows the importance of the climatic factors in the rotavirus epidemiology.
Case studies in international medicine.	Family physicians in the United States are increasingly called on to manage the complex clinical problems of newly arrived immigrants and refugees. Case studies and discussions are provided in this article to update physicians on the diagnosis and management of potentially unfamiliar ailments, including strongyloidiasis, hookworm infection, cysticercosis, clonorchiasis and tropical pancreatitis. Albendazole and ivermectin, two important drugs in the treatment of some worm infections, are now available in the United States.
The effects of urea supplementation on production and parasitological responses of sheep infected with Haemonchus contortus and Trichostrongylus colubriformis.	Merino wether lambs were individually confined and fed a basal diet of oaten chaff containing essential minerals which was untreated or contained 3% urea. Within each dietary group animals were orally infected with either 200 H. contortus (H), 1000 T. colubriformis (T) or both species (H + T) thrice weekly or remained uninfected (C). Weight gain, wool production, and parasite burden were measured over a 19-week period. Sheep on the diet containing urea gained more weight, consumed more feed and grew more wool of higher fibre diameter than their counterparts given no urea. On both diets uninfected sheep consumed more feed than infected sheep and the sheep given no urea and infected with both H and T worm species consumed the least feed. Parasitised sheep gained less weight than uninfected control sheep. Sheep with urea in their diet had lower faecal egg counts when infected with H alone or with H and T but there was no effect of urea on egg count of sheep infected with T alone. In contrast, T numbers after slaughter were reduced in sheep fed diets containing urea whereas H numbers were not affected by diet. It was concluded that supplementation with urea can increase resilience to parasitism thereby improving production and also enhance resistance mechanisms against worms in young sheep on low quality roughage diets. These responses can be partly attributed to stimulation of feed intake, presumably due to enhanced ruminal digestion, but also to elevated rumen NH3-N levels which would be expected to have increased rumen microbial protein synthesis and availability to the intestines.
Multiple sclerosis: association to HLA DQalpha in a tropical population.	Studies performed in subtropical populations have found significant association between the phenotype multiple sclerosis (MS) and the major histocompatibility complex (MHC). We present the results of a case-control study conducted on a tropical population (Antioquia, Colombia) in order to detect a possible association between MS and HLA DQalpha (HLA DQA1*) alleles. Forty chromosomes belonging to MS patients were compared to two sets of controls (40 and 910 chromosomes, respectively). The HLA DQA1*0101 and DQA1*0102 alleles were found in a significantly higher proportion among the cases than among the controls, whereas the HLA DQA1*0103 allele was found in a significantly lower proportion of the cases. These results suggest that the association of HLA DQA1*0101, DQA1*0102 and DQA1*0103 to the MS phenotype found in Caucasian subtropical populations remains in individuals with MS inhabiting the tropics. This finding could mean that the major genetic component associated to the MHC in subtropical populations is the same in the tropics.
Tropical rain forest fragmentation, howler monkeys (Alouatta palliata), and dung beetles at Los Tuxtlas, Mexico.	In Neotropical rain forests, fresh mammal dung, especially that of howler monkeys, constitutes an important resource used by dung beetles as food and for oviposition and further feeding by their larvae. Tropical rain forest destruction, fragmentation, and subsequent isolation causing reductions in numbers of and the disappearance of howler monkeys may result in decreasing numbers of dung beetles, but this has not been documented. In this study, we present information on the presence of howlers and dung beetles in 38 isolated forest fragments and 15 agricultural habitats. Howler monkeys were censused by visual means, while dung beetles were sampled with traps baited with a mixture of howler, cow, horse, and dog dung. Results indicated that loss of area and isolation of forest fragments result in significant decrements in howlers and dung beetles. However, dung beetle abundance was found to be closely related to the presence of howler monkeys at the sites and habitats investigated. Scenarios of land management designed to reduce isolation among forest fragments may help sustain populations of howler monkeys and dung beetles, which may have positive consequences for rain forest regeneration.
Seasonal variations in mood and behaviour: epidemiological findings in the north tropics.	There has been no epidemiological study of seasonal affective disorder (SAD) in the north tropics.
Why do mothers still sun their infants?	To determine the prevalence of maternal beliefs about the therapeutic uses of sunlight in infancy in tropical Australia.
A case of rapid diversification in the neotropics: phylogenetic relationships among Cranioleuca spinetails (Aves, Furnariidae).	Relationships among the 18-19 species of spinetails of the genus Cranioleuca are difficult to establish. Attempts based on traditional taxonomic characters have failed because of a high degree of homoplasy. Most morphological characters vary independently, producing leap-frog patterns of variation along the Eastern Brazilian Andean track, and behavior and vocalizations vary little. We use mtDNA sequence data from the cyt b and ND2 genes in an attempt to clarify relationships within the genus. We show (i) that Cranioleuca represents a recent burst of speciation and (ii) that a set of species thought by Maijer and Fjeldså (1997) to form a natural group is in fact a paraphyletic assemblage which also includes humid forest species with different pigmentations and vocalizations. However, synapomorphic variation in the sequences is not sufficient to unambiguously resolve the relationships within the genus. Several species (C. baroni, C. antisiensis, C. pyrrhophia, C. albiceps) show more than one haplotype, without any obvious correlation between genetic and geographic or morphological variation, and the different species do not always show reciprocal monophyly in haplotype diversity. Nevertheless, low genetic differentiation characterizes not only allopatric taxa but also some forms which are essentially sympatric, supporting species rank for the former. Our data suggest a recent diversification and proliferation possibly linked to Pleistocene climatic variation and its consequent vegetational shifts, at least in the Andean species.
Haematological and plasma electrolyte changes after long distance running in high heat and humidity.	To investigate the acute effects of an 18 km run on the haematological and plasma electrolyte parameters, in recreational runners under conditions of high temperatures and humidity.
Kidney transplantation and travel in the tropics]	About 1600 kidney transplants are performed each year in France. The quality of life of grafted patients has therefore improved, to the extent that such patients are now envisaging professional or other activity and stays in tropical or sub-tropical regions. However, this is not without some degree of risk or difficulty. Anti-malarial drugs may interfere with other medication, particularly ciclosporin in kidney grafted patients. Moreover, other vaccinations such as anti-amaril immunization are recommended or even required by certain countries. Yet the immunodepression induced by this in grafted patients is a contraindication for such vaccination. For the other types of immunization, the risk/benefit ratio is not always obvious.
Influence of restricted suckling and level of feed supplementation on postpartum reproductive performance of zebu and crossbred cattle in the semi-arid tropics.	This study was carried out in central Tanzania on a group of 45 Zebu and 37 crossbred cows which were 4 to 10 years old. At calving time, the animals were allocated to one of the 4 treatment groups. In addition to free access to grazing for all cows in the study, in group H:AR (n = 18), cows were fed a high level of concentrate supplementation (4kg/day) and calves were artificially reared; in group H:RS (n = 24), cows were fed a high level of concentrate supplementation (4kg/day) and calves were only allowed restricted suckling up until the weaning age of 6 months. In group L:AR (n = 23) cows were fed a low level of concentrate supplementation (2kg/day) and calves were artificially reared; and in group L:RS (n = 17) cows were fed a low level of concentrate supplementation (2kg/day) and calves were only allowed restricted suckling up until the weaning age of 6 months. Milk progesterone was used as a means of determining the postpartum resumption interval (PRI) and the interval from parturition to conception (PCI). The overall PRI was 47.4 +/- 0.4 days and was significantly affected by breed but not by calving season, with crossbred cows exhibiting a shorter PRI than Zebu cows. The effect of the treatments was significant, with cows in the group H:AR displaying a significantly shorter PRI than those in the other groups, while cows in group L:RS showed a significantly longer PRI than those in the other groups. The overall PCI was 149.5 +/- 3.7 days, and was not significantly affected by breed or calving season. The effect of the treatments was significant, with cows in the group H:AR having a significantly shorter PCI than cows in the other groups, while cows in group L:RS showed a significantly longer PCI than those in the other groups. Crossbred cows had higher live weights at calving (299.4 kg) than Zebu cows (272.6 kg), while all cows gained weight during the first 3 months after calving. The treatments had a significant effect on weight gain, with cows in the group H:AR gaining significantly more weight than those in the other groups. Cows which had high live weights at calving exhibited significantly shorter PRI and PCI than the lighter cows. Animals which had gained more than 5 kg during the first month after calving, or which had gained more than 8 kg during the first 3 months after calving, showed significantly shorter PRI and PCI than cows which had gained less weight. The results show that the calf rearing system and the level of feed supplementation interact with each other and can influence the postpartum anoestrous period in Zebu and Zebu crossbred cattle. Increasing the level of nutrition in restricted suckling cows tended to improve the postpartum anoestrous period, but the positive effects of supplementation could not completely compensate for the negative effects of suckling.
The comparative efficacy and tolerability of CGP 56697 (artemether + lumefantrine) versus halofantrine in the treatment of uncomplicated falciparum malaria in travellers returning from the Tropics to The Netherlands and France.	CGP 56697 (Riamet) is a new oral anti-malarial drug composed of artemether and lumefantrine (benflumetol) which combines the fast, short-acting artemether for rapid parasite clearance with the prolonged action of lumefantrine for intended radical cure. In this double-blind, comparative trial, the efficacy and tolerability of CGP 56697, given as a course of 4 x 4 tablets over 48 h, was compared to halofantrine, given as 3 x 2 tablets over 12 h with a second course 1 week later. Patients (mostly non-immune) with acute, uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum infection were randomly assigned to either CGP 56697 (n = 51) or halofantrine (n = 52). CGP 56697 proved superior with respect to parasite clearance time (median 32 vs. 48 h, P < 0.001) and parasite reduction at 24 h (median 99.7 vs. 89.6%, P < 0.001) with a non-significant difference in resolution of fever (median 24 vs. 32 h, P = 0.835). However, a 28-day cure rate of 82% was observed for CGP 56697 and 100% for halofantrine. Significant QTc prolongations (> 30 ms) were seen 6-12 h after halofantrine intake but not after CGP 56697 intake. CGP 56697 is an effective, well-tolerated treatment for uncomplicated falciparum malaria but for this dosing regimen the recrudescence rate is unacceptablyhigh (18%). For travellers contracting malaria abroad, we propose a six-dose regimen of CGP 56697 over 3 days.
Geography of end-Cretaceous marine bivalve extinctions.	Analysis of the end-Cretaceous mass extinction, based on 3514 occurrences of 340 genera of marine bivalves (Mollusca), suggests that extinction intensities were uniformly global; no latitudinal gradients or other geographic patterns are detected.  Elevated extinction intensities in some tropical areas are entirely a result of the distribution of one extinct group of highly specialized bivalves, the rudists.  When rudists are omitted, intensities at those localities are statistically indistinguishable from those of both the rudist-free tropics and extratropical localities.
Central nervous system infections in the rainforest zone of Nigeria.	To ascertain incidence rates of central nervous system infections and provide information for health care planners.
Tolerability and efficacy of hydrocolloid dressings in the treatment of venous leg ulcers under tropical conditions: an open prospective study.	In the Western world, hydrocolloid dressings are widely used in wound treatment. However, little is known about their tolerability and efficacy under tropical conditions. The purpose of this study was to assess the tolerability and efficacy of a hydrocolloid dressing in combination with short stretch compressive bandages under tropical conditions. Seventeen patients with venous leg ulcers attending an outpatient clinic in Surinam were enrolled in the study for a period of 6 weeks. Swabs for bacterial cultures were taken at the beginning and end of the study. All ulcers showed a good healing tendency. Percentage of granulation tissue in the ulcers improved from mean 27% at start to 92% at the end. Mean circumference at start was 9.9 cm, at the end 4.9 cm. Exudation diminished from moderate in six and severe in eight ulcers, to moderate in 10 and almost none in two ulcers. In general, the dressing was very well accepted, pain was never reported. Leakage was noticed 39 times in the 164 dressing changes. This study revealed no differences in the rate of bacterial infections or colonization of wounds compared with studies performed in temperate regions. Our data indicate that hydrocolloid dressings can be used under tropical conditions.
Ultraviolet-induced responses in two species of climax tropical marine macrophytes.	In tropical regions nominal reductions in stratospheric ozone could be detrimental to marine organisms that live near their upper tolerance levels of ultraviolet (UV) radiation and temperature. Well-known plant responses to UV include inhibition of photosynthesis, reductions in chlorophyll content, morphological changes and production of UV absorbing compounds such as flavonoids. An assessment of the effects and responses of two tropical marine macrophytes to full solar radiation and solar radiation depleted of UV were conducted in southwestern Puerto Rico. Changes in concentration of photosynthetic and photoprotective pigments, and in leaf optical properties of the red mangrove Rhizophora mangle and the seagrass Thalassia testudinum, were evaluated in field exclusion experiments. Rhizophora mangle exposed to full solar radiation showed lower leaf reflectance and a shift of 5 nm in the inflection point of the red edge. Thalassia testudinum samples excluded from UV had significant increases in total chlorophyll and carotenoid concentrations. These marine macrophytes showed increments in their concentration of UV-B absorbing compounds with exposure to UV radiation. Results indicate that even minor increases in UV radiation at low latitudes could have significant effects on the pigment composition of these climax species.
Modelling the trade-off between fire and grazing in a tropical savanna landscape, northern Australia.	As savannas are widespread across northern Australia and provide northern rangelands, the sustainable use of this landscape is crucial. Both fire and grazing are known to influence the tree-grass character of tropical savannas. Frequent fires open up the tree layer and change the ground layer from perennials to that dominated by annuals. Annual species in turn produce copious quantities of highly flammable fuel that perpetuates frequent, hot fires. Grazing reduces fuel loads because livestock consumes fuel-forage. This trade-off between fire and grazing was modelled using a spatially explicit, process-orientated model (SAVANNA) and field data from fire experiments performed in the Victoria River District of northern Australia. Results of simulating fire (over 40 years) with minimal or no grazing pressure revealed a reduction in the shrub and woody plants, a reduction in grasses, and no influence on the tree structure given mild fires. While mature trees were resistant to fire, immature trees, which are more likely associated with the shrub layer, were removed by fire. The overall tree density may be reduced with continual burning over longer time periods because of increasing susceptibility of old trees to fire and the lack of recruitment. Increases in stocking rates created additional forage demands until the majority of the fuel load was consumed, thus effectively suppressing fire and reverting to the grazing and suppressed fire scenario where trees and shrubs established.
Eutrophication study of twenty reservoirs in Taiwan.	Taiwan is an island off the southeastern coast of China with total area of roughly 36,000 km2. The geographic position of Taiwan is between 21degrees 45' 25" to 25 degrees 56' 31" north latitude and 119 degrees 18' 3"to 124 degrees 34' 30" east longitude and includes both tropical and subtropical areas. The study was carried out at twenty main reservoirs in Taiwan area from 1994 to 1998. The study revealed that the water quality of most reservoirs gradually deteriorated during the study period. Total phosphorus concentrations over 60 microg/L were observed in 12.5% of these reservoirs in 1994, but in 22.2% of these reservoirs in 1998. Total nitrogen concentrations over 1.0 mg/L were observed in 37.5% of these reservoirs in 1994, but in 94.4% of these reservoirs in 1998. Secchi disc transparency below 2 m was observed in 75% of these reservoirs in 1994, but in 83.3% of these reservoirs in 1998. Chlorophyll a concentrations over 15 mg/m3 were observed in 12.5% of these reservoirs in 1994, but in 27.8% of these reservoirs in 1998. The TN:TP mass ratios (wt/wt) of all the studied reservoirs except Akungting Reservoir, Fongshan Reservoir, and Chengching Reservoir are higher than 16. The study results on nutrient limitation indicated that phosphorus is the primary limiting nutrient in Taiwan reservoirs except Akungting Reservoir, Fongshan Reservoir, and Chengching Reservoir.
Tropical plant pathology: at home and abroad.	I first describe my introduction to plant pathology and early experiences with employment, the environment, diseases, pests, and various plant pathologists. Then I recount a decade of stimulating studies at the University of Minnesota and the route I followed to a career in international agriculture with the Rockefeller Foundation in Colombia and later at Cornell University. My appreciation for and knowledge of traditional farmers and sustainable agriculture occurred as a slow awakening. Comments are made regarding problems, principles, and satisfactions associated with the improvement of efforts to aid food production in developing countries. My curious love affair with root and tuber crops, especially cassava, is explained and readily defended. My favorite pathogens, Phytophthora infestans and Ralstonia solanacearum, among others, are considered. The pleasures and satisfactions of teaching, writing, and sabbatical leaves are related. Finally, thoughts on the balance between basic and applied research in plant pathology are offered with significant nervousness about the future of our discipline.
Genetic rescue of remnant tropical trees by an alien pollinator.	Habitat fragmentation is thought to lower the viability of tropical trees by disrupting their mutualisms with native pollinators. However, in this study, Dinizia excelsa (Fabaceae), a canopy-emergent tree, was found to thrive in Amazonian pastures and forest fragments even in the absence of native pollinators. Canopy observations indicated that African honeybees (Apis mellifera scutellata) were the predominant floral visitors in fragmented habitats and replaced native insects in isolated pasture trees. Trees in habitat fragments produced, on average, over three times as many seeds as trees in continuous forest, and microsatellite assays of seed arrays showed that genetic diversity was maintained across habitats. A paternity analysis further revealed gene flow over as much as 3.2 km of pasture, the most distant pollination precisely recorded for any plant species. Usually considered only as dangerous exotics, African honeybees have become important pollinators in degraded tropical forests, and may alter the genetic structure of remnant populations through frequent long-distance gene flow.
Daily hypothermia and torpor in a tropical primate: synchronization by 24-h light-dark cycle.	To study the temporal organization of daily hypothermia and torpor in a nocturnal Malagasy primate, the gray mouse lemur, body temperature (T(b)) and locomotor activity were recorded using telemetry on 39 males held in 24-h light-dark cycles of different photoperiods. Under free-running condition, the circadian T(b) and locomotor activity rhythms had a period shorter than 24 h. Circadian daily hypothermia started by a rapid drop in T(b) (0.24 degrees C/10 min) at the end of subjective night (13 h 25 +/- 20 min) and was characterized by minimal T(b) values 3 h 20 +/- 5 min later. Spontaneous arousal from daily hypothermia occurred at a fixed time (6 h 05 +/- 15 min, n = 7) after the beginning of subjective day. In animals exposed to 24-h light-dark cycles with night duration varying from 10 to 14 h, locomotor activity was strictly restricted to dark time, but the temporal organization of daily hypothermia was not modified, although changes in amplitude of T(b) rhythm were observed. Daily hypothermia was directly induced by light and lasted 5 h 10 +/- 10 min, with minimal T(b) values 3 h 30 +/- 30 min (n = 28) after lights on, on condition that nighttime did not exceed the duration of subjective night. However, in animals exposed to 24-h light-dark cycles with night duration varying from 10 to 5 h, the limit of induction of daily hypothermia by light was ~9 h after the beginning of night. Finally, under short days (14:10-h light-dark cycle), long bouts (6 h 50 +/- 40 min) of actual torpor (minimum T(b) 27.6 +/- 0.9 degrees C) were observed and would involve mechanisms depending on physiological changes induced by short day exposure.
Epidemiological aspects of rotavirus infections in Minas Gerais, Brazil.	In order to develop good polices regarding public health measures and vaccine use to prevent rotavirus induced gastroenteritis, the epidemiology of the illness in various regions of Brazil is necessary. Accordingly, this study was to detect the frequency and types of rotavirus in one city in a tropical part of Brazil. This is an epidemiological survey of pediatric gastroenteritis caused by rotavirus conducted in Juiz de Fora, Minas Gerais State, Brazil. We analyzed 656 in-patient (190) and out-patient (466) stool samples from children ages 0 to 5 years during 1998. Rotavirus detection was performed using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE). Rotavirus was isolated from 62/190 stool samples (32.6%) from hospitalized children and 16/466 (3.4%) from out-patients. The overall rotavirus frequency in this population was 11.9%. The highest rotavirus detection was found in hospitalized children ages 6 to 24 months. Rotaviruses were detected from March to September, with a peak incidence in June (33.3%), the coldest and driest month in the region. Electrophoretic analysis identified 10 different profiles, all long and compatible with group A rotavirus, termed L(A) through LJ. The L(B) and L(D) profiles circulated throughout most of the study period. However, in June, when the highest detection rate occurred, the vast majority (92.5%) of the positive samples displayed the L(B) profile, thus suggesting an outbreak caused by this rotavirus profile. Rotavirus induced gastroenteritis is common in one tropical region of Brazil, it is an important cause of diarrhea in hospitalized children ages 6 to 24 months, it is most common during dry, cold months of the year, and it may occur in electrophoretype restricted epidemics. Such analyses throughout Brazil will assist in developing sound guidelines regarding its prevention.
Facultative hypothermic responses in an Afrotropical arid-zone passerine, the red-headed finch (Amadina erythrocephala).	We investigated thermoregulation and facultative hypothermic responses to food deprivation in the red-headed finch (Amadina erythrocephala), a 22-g passerine endemic to the arid regions of southern Africa. We predicted that, like most other passerines investigated, A. erythrocephala exhibits shallow rest-phase hypothermia, but not torpor. We observed significant reductions in rest-phase energy expenditure and body temperature (Tb) in response to restricted feeding. The maximum extent of Tb reduction (ca. 5 degrees C) and energy savings (ca. 10%) were consistent with those reported for a number of other passerine species. The lowest Tb we observed in a bird able to arouse spontaneously was 34.8 degrees C. The parameters of facultative hypothermic responses in A. erythrocephala were indicative of shallow rest-phase hypothermia, but not torpor. The limited available data on hypothermic responses in passerines suggest that many species do not possess the capacity for torpor. In passerines, torpor appears to be restricted to a few nectarivores and aerial insectarivores, and may have evolved independently of the torpor observed in non-passerine taxa such as the Trochiliformes and Caprimulgidae. The basal metabolic rate (BMR) of A. erythrocephala was 30-46% lower than predicted by various allometric equations, but was similar to the predicted BMR for a 22-g desert bird.
Drug formulations intended for the global market should be tested for stability under tropical climatic conditions.	The quality of drugs imported into developing countries having a tropical climate may be adversely affected if their formulations have not been optimized for stability under these conditions. The present study investigated the influence of tropical climate conditions (class IV: 40 degrees C, 75% relative humidity) on the drug content, in vitro dissolution and oral bioavailability of different formulations of two essential drugs marketed in Tanzania: diclofenac sodium and ciprofloxacin tablets.
Low incidence of hip fractures in an equatorial area.	Hip fractures in patients older than 60 years of age represent a serious morbidity linked to osteoporosis that contributes to its mortality rates. Both genetic and environmental influences have been reported as important factors related to the epidemiology of osteoporosis. Sobral, a city located in the northeast (equatorial zone) of Brazil (3 masculine S/40 masculine E) has 138,565 inhabitants, who are mostly white Portuguese and native Brazilian descendants. We evaluated the occurrence of hip fractures in Sobral between July 1996 and June 2000. This was a retrospective cohort-based study. Data were obtained from the medical records of the Santa Casa de Sobral, which is the reference hospital in this area. All chart records of patients aged >20 years with a diagnosis of femoral or hip fracture were revised. A total of 79 fractures were identified. Ten cases (12.6%) that occurred in patients <50 years of age were excluded from further analysis. Sixty-nine cases (87.3%) occurred in patients aged >50 years, comprising 19 (27.5%) men and 50 (72.4%) women. This gives an age-adjusted annual incidence rate of 5.59/10,000 per year in men and 12.4/10,000 per year in women, respectively, for people >50 years of age. Two patients, aged 79 and 82, died 9 and 6 days, respectively, after hospital admission. The average time of hospitalization was 7.5 days (range 4-19 days). As expected, there was a significant rise in hip fractures in people >50 years old. Interestingly, the hip fracture rate in this population is considerably lower (around 4 times less) than the reported rates in white Caucasians.
Does flood tolerance explain tree species distribution in tropical seasonally flooded habitats?	In the tropics, seasonally flooded forests (SFF) harbor fewer tree species than terra firme (i.e. non-flooded) forests. The low species diversity of tropical flooded forests has been ascribed to the paucity of species with adaptations to tolerate flooding. To test the hypothesis that flooding is the only factor restricting most species from SFF, we compared plant morphological and physiological responses to flooding in 2-month old seedlings of 6 species common to SFF and 12 species common to terra firme forests. Although flooding impaired growth, total biomass, maximum root length and stomatal conductance in most species, responses varied greatly and were species-specific. For example, after 90 days, flooding reduced leaf area growth by 10-50% in all species, except in Tabebuia, a common species from non-flooded habitats. Similarly, flooding had a 5-45% negative effect on total biomass for all species, except in 1 SFF and 1 terra firme species both of which had more biomass under flooding. A principal component analysis, using the above responses to flooding, provided no evidence that SFF and terra firme species differed in their responses to flooding. Flooding also caused reductions in root growth for most species. Rooting depth and root: shoot ratios were significantly less affected by flooding in SFF than in terra firme species. Although flood tolerance is critical for survival in flooded habitats, we hypothesize that responses to post-flooding events such as drought might be equally important in seasonal habitats. Therefore, we suggest that the ability to grow roots under anoxia might be critical in predicting success in inundated habitats that also experience a strong dry season.
An exploration of risk factors for bovine spongiform encephalopathy in ruminant production systems in the tropics.	The epidemic of bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE) in Europe in the late Twentieth Century required the interplay of two sets of factors, which now provide reference points for assessment of the BSE risk throughout the world. One set of factors consisted of the presence of infective agent in cattle or some other ruminant. The second set consisted of transmission and amplification of the disease, made possible through a particular feeding system that allowed persistent and habitual feeding of meat-and-bone meal (MBM) derived from cattle. The authors explore the ruminant production systems of three representative countries in South-East Asia against the background of factors required for the manifestation of BSE. The results can be extended to other countries in sub-tropical and tropical regions where similar, non-industrial ruminant production systems operate. In short, the lack of a nutritionally or economically rational niche for MBM as a source of dietary protein or nitrogen in many ruminant production systems removes the hazard of BSE.
Two-step upflow anaerobic sludge bed system for sewage treatment under subtropical conditions with posttreatment in waste stabilization ponds.	A pilot-scale sewage treatment system consisting of two upflow anaerobic sludge bed (UASB) reactors followed by five waste stabilization ponds (WSPs) in series was studied under subtropical conditions. The first UASB reactor started up in only 1 mo (stable operation, high chemical oxygen demand [COD] removal efficiency, low volatile fatty acids concentration in the effluent, alkalinity ratio above 0.7, biogas production above 0.1 Nm3/kg of CODremoved). Removal efficiencies up to 90% were obtained in the anaerobic steps at a hydraulic retention time of 6 + 4 h (80% removal in the first step). Fecal coliform removal in the whole system was 99.9999% (99.94% in anaerobic steps and 99.98% in WSPs). COD balances over UASB reactors are provided. A minimum set of data necessary to build COD balances is proposed. Intermittent sludge washout was detected in the reactors with the COD balances. Sludge washout from single-step UASB reactors should be monitored and minimized in order to ensure constant compliance with discharge standards, especially when no posttreatment is provided. The system combined high COD and fecal coliform removal efficiency with an extremely low effluent concentration, complying with discharge standards, and making it an attractive option for sewage treatment in subtropical regions.
Sperm motion characteristics of Garole rams raised for a prolonged period in a semi-arid tropical environment.	The Garole is a prolific but less well known and rare breed of small sheep found in the hot and humid Sunderban region of West Bengal. An ability to breed throughout the year and to graze in knee-deep water, resistance to foot rot and a strong mothering instinct are some of the special features of this breed. Garole rams could provide germplasm to incorporate prolificacy traits by artificial insemination of the nonprolific sheep breeds found in abundance in the semi-arid and arid tropical climates of India. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the semen production by Garole rams maintained in a semi-arid climate for three years and to objectively assess their semen quality by a computer-assisted sperm analysis technique. The donor rams were randomly selected each year from the original flock procured from their natural habitat or from the offspring born at the Institute farm. Semen was collected weekly for three weeks each autumn for three consecutive years from 8 rams each year. The overall means (SD) of the traits that did not differ significantly with age or year were volume, concentration, curvilinear velocity, average path velocity, amplitude of lateral head displacement, beat frequency, motility and the percentages of rapid motile sperms and of slow motile sperms. The age of the rams had a significant effect (p<0.05) on the straight-line velocity but this was not significantly affected by the length of exposure to the semi-arid climate. However, the age and year had significant effects (p<0.05) on linearity, straightness and the percentage of medium motile sperms. It was concluded that Garole rams are capable of producing good-quality semen even after a prolonged period of exposure to a semi-arid tropical climate.
Marinilactibacillus psychrotolerans gen. nov., sp. nov., a halophilic and alkaliphilic marine lactic acid bacterium isolated from marine organisms in temperate and subtropical areas of Japan.	A novel marine lactic acid rod bacterium has been described for eight strains isolated from living and decomposing marine organisms collected from temperate and subtropical areas of Japan. The isolates were Gram-positive, catalase-negative, non-sporulating and motile with peritrichous flagella. They were slightly halophilic, highly halotolerant and alkaliphilic; the optimum NaCl concentration for growth was 2.0-3.75% (w/v) with a range from 0 to 17.0-20.5% (depending on the strain); the optimum pH was between 8.0 and 9.5 with a range from 6.0 to 10.0. They were psychrotolerant, growing well at -1.8 degrees C with a maximum at 40-45 degrees C and the optimum at 37-40 degrees C. Lactate yields were 87-100% per consumed glucose; the residual products were formate, acetate and ethanol with a molar ratio of approximately 2 : 1 : 1. The product composition was markedly affected by the pH of fermentation medium; at higher pH, the yield of lactate decreased (60-65% at pH 9.0) and that of other products increased conversely. The cell-wall peptidoglycan type was type A4beta, Orn-D-Glu, whereas that of the genus Alkalibacterium, the phylogenetically closest lactic acid bacterium, was type A4beta, Orn-D-Asp. The major cellular fatty acids were C16 : 0, C16 : 1delta9, C18 : 0 and C18 : 1delta9 (oleic acid). The G + C content of the DNA was 34.6-36.2 mol%. The eight isolates were phenotypically homogeneous and formed a single genomic species. The 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that the isolates constituted an independent phylogenetic lineage within the radiation of lactic acid bacteria with 96.2% similarity to the genus Alkalibacterium. The secondary structure and the nucleotide sequence of the V6 region of the 16S rRNA were characteristic of the organism among other related lactic acid genera. On the bases of phenotypic and phylogenetic distinctness, the organism was proposed to belong to a new genus and species, Marinilactibacillus psychrotolerans gen. nov., sp. nov. The type strain, M13-2(T) (G + C = 36.2 mol%), has been deposited in the IAM, NBRC, NCIMB and NRIC culture collections as IAM 14980(T), NBRC 100002(T), NCIMB 13873(T) and NRIC 0510(T), respectively.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in mountain soils of the subtropical Atlantic.	Surface soil samples from various altitudes on Tenerife Island, ranging from sea level up to 3400 m above mean sea level, were analyzed to study the distribution of 26 polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) in a remote subtropical area. The stable atmospheric conditions in this island define three vertically stratified layers: marine boundary, trade-wind inversion, and free troposphere. Total PAH concentrations, 1.9 to 6000 microg/kg dry wt., were high when compared with those in tropical areas and in a similar range to those in temperate areas. In the marine boundary layer, fluoranthene (Fla), pyrene (Pyr), benz [a]anthracene (BaA), and chrysene (C + T) were largely dominant. The predominance of Fla over Pyr may reflect photo-oxidative processes during atmospheric transport, although coal combustion inputs cannot be excluded. The PAHs found in higher concentration in the soils from the inversion layer were benzo[b + j]fluoranthene (BbjF) + benzo[k]fluoranthene (BkF) > benzo[e]pyrene (BeP) approximately indeno[1,2, 3-cd]pyrene (Ind) > benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) approximately benzo[ghi]perylene (Bghi) > coronene (Cor) approximately dibenz[a,h]anthracene (Dib), reflecting that high temperatures and insolation prevent the accumulation of PAHs more volatile than BbjF in significant amounts. These climatic conditions involve a process of standardization that prevents the identification of specific PAH sources such as traffic, forest fires, or industrial inputs. Only soils with high total organic carbon (TOC) (e.g., 10-30%) preserve the more volatile compounds such as phenanthrene (Phe), methylphenanthrenes (MPhe), dimethylphenanthrenes (DMPhe), and retene (Ret). However, no relation between PAHs and soil TOC and black carbon (BC) was found. The specific PAH distributions of the free tropospheric region suggest a direct input from pyrolytic processes related to the volcanic emission of gases in Teide.
Tree species of the Central Amazon and soil moisture alter stable isotope composition of nitrogen and oxygen in nitrous oxide evolved from soil.	The use of stable isotopes of N and O in N2O has been proposed as a way to better constrain the global budget of atmospheric N2O and to better understand the relative contributions of the main microbial processes (nitrification and denitrification) responsible for N2O formation in soil. This study compared the isotopic composition of N2O emitted from soils under different tree species in the Brazilian Amazon. We also compared the effect of tree species with that of soil moisture, as we expected the latter to be the main factor regulating the proportion of nitrifier- and denitrifier-derived N2O and, consequently, isotopic signatures of N2O. Tree species significantly affected delta15N in nitrous oxide. However, there was no evidence that the observed variation in delta15N in N2O was determined by varying proportions of nitrifier- vs. denitrifier-derived N2O. We submit that the large variation in delta15N-N2O is the result of competition between denitrifying and immobilizing microorganisms for NO3(-). In addition to altering delta15N-N2O, tree species affected net rates of N2O emission from soil in laboratory incubations. These results suggest that tree species contribute to the large isotopic variation in N2O observed in a range tropical forest soils. We found that soil water affects both 15N and 18O in N2O, with wetter soils leading to more depleted N2O in both 15N and 18O. This is likely caused by a shift in biological processes for 15N and possible direct exchange of 18O between H2O and N2O.
Epicormic branches: a growth indicator for the tropical forest tree, Dicorynia guianensis Amshoff (Caesalpiniaceae).	Architectural analyses of temperate tree species using a chronological approach suggest that the expression of epicormic branches is closely related to low growth rates in the axes that make up the branching system. Therefore, sole consideration of epicormic criteria may be sufficient to identify trees with low secondary growth levels or with both low primary and secondary growth levels. In a tropical tree such as Dicorynia guianensis (basralocus), where chronological studies are difficult, this relationship could be very useful as an easily accessible indicator of growth potentials. A simple method of architectural tree description was used to characterize the global structure of more than 1650 basralocus trees and to evaluate their growth level. Measurements of simple growth characters [height, basal diameter, internode length of submittal part (top of the main axis of the tree)] and the observation of four structural binary descriptors on the main stem (presence of sequential branches and young epicormic branches, state of the submittal part, global orientation), indicated that epicormic branch formation is clearly related to a decrease in length of the successive growth units of the main stem. Analysis of height vs. diameter ratios among different tree subgroups, with and without epicormic branching, suggested that trees with epicormic branches generally have a low level of secondary growth compared with primary growth.
First records of ectomycorrhizal Cortinarius species (Agaricales, Basidiomycetes) from tropical India and their phylogenetic position based on rDNA ITS sequences.	Three new Cortinarius species, Cortinarius conopileus, C. keralensis, and C. phlegmophorus spp. nov., are described from Kerala State in southern India. This is the first record of ectomycorrhizal Cortinarius spp. in the tropical part of India. In addition to distinct morphological characters, the comparative analysis of rDNA ITS sequences of the collections from India and morphologically similar species support the recognition of these taxa as new species. Phylogenetic analyses demonstrate that the three Indian Cortinarius spp. belong to both larger subclades of the genus Cortinarius, clade/cortinarius and clade/telamonia. As supported by morphological and molecular data, C. phlegmophorus belongs to Cortinarius subgen. Myxacium sect. Defibulati. Based on classical morphological characters, both C. keralensis and C. conopileus are representatives of subgen. Telamonia. However, C. conopileus belongs to clade/obtusi, which is a well-supported subclade of clade/cortinarius. Thus, in contrast to classical taxonomy, the clade/obtusi represents an independent evolutionary origin of telamonioid taxa. This result is also reflected by the distinct morphological characters of taxa of clade/obtusi, namely the lamellar trama with ellipsoid inflated hyphae and the presence of cystidia. In contrast, C. keralensis is a typical member of clade/telamonia. Within/telamonia, only relationships of closely related taxa are resolved due to the low genetic divergence found in ITS sequences. Based on morphological and molecular criteria, C. keralensis is a distinct taxon of sect. Saturnini.
New species of Inocybe from Dicymbe forests of Guyana.	Four new species of Inocybe (Agaricales) with pleurocystidia and nodulose spores are recorded from a remote region of rain forest in Guyana, in northeastern South America. All four species of Inocybe occur in association with the arborescent legume genus, Dicymbe (Caesalpiniaceae, tribe Amherstieae). This constitutes the first report of a legume host genus with Inocybe in the neotropics. The new species are I. ayangannae, I. epidendron, I. lilacinosquamosa and I. pulchella. A dichotomous key, morphological descriptions, illustrations, taxonomic commentary, and a discussion of Inocybe in the tropics, are provided.
Regional monitoring of lead and cadmium contamination in a tropical grazing land site, Thailand.	An investigation was carried out to monitor Pb and Cd contamination in grazing land located near a highway. Environmental media at different distances from highway (soil, grass, water, cow's forage, fertilizer, manure and milk samples) were collected from three sampling locations. Soil and grass were characterized by high metal mobility (soil with Pb: 5.25 +/- 0.71-14.59 +/- 1.17 mg kg(-1), dry mass and Cd: 0.038-0.33 +/- 0.04 mg kg(-1), dry mass and grass with Pb: 0.76 +/- 0.05-6.62 +/- 0.18 mg kg(-1), dry mass and Cd: 0.17+/- 0.01-0.73 +/- 0.09 mg kg(-1), dry mass). One-way analysis of variane (ANOVA) was applied to find out the correlation between metal (total and bioavailable) concentrations in the soil and the distance from roadside. In most cases, the finding showed that plants growing nearer to the highway are usually exposed to more heavy metal accumulations than those away from the highway. In addition, a correlation was established between plant available metal concentrations and plant metal uptake concentrations. Analysis of fertilizer and manure showed considerable amount of metals (fertilizer with Pb: 1.53 +/- 0.06 mg kg(-1) and Cd: 0.038 mg kg(-1) and manure with Pb: 2.55-3.34 mg kg(-1) and Cd: 0.14-0.31 mg kg(-1)). Long-.term simultaneous application of fertilizer and manure on the commercial farm showed higher metal accumulation in the soil and plants than those of co-operative farm. Considerable concentrations of metals (Pb: 1.60-2.94 mg kg(-1) and Cd: 0.025-0.19 mg kg(-1)) were observed in fodder. The finding clearly demonstrated that there are seasonal variation in total daily metal intake by individual cow (Pb: 109.37 mg day(-1) (dry), 273.47 mg day(-1) (rainy) and Cd: 2.02 mg day(-1) (dry), 19.62 mg day(-1) (rainy)). The provisional tolerable weekly intake of heavy metals in cows is 390 microg Pb and 28 microg Cd per kg body weight in the rainy season and 156 microg Pb and 2 microg Cd per kg body weight in the dry season. The levels of metals (Pb: 0.014 mg L(-1) and Cd: not detectable) and bio-transfer factor (10(-5)-10(-4)) in raw milk were found to be well below the Codex Alimentarius Commissions Draft (1997). Our analysis revealed that improvements on farm management give significant reduction in elevated levels of Pb and Cd in soil and plants, and however leads to minimize the amount of Pb and Cd in consumed milk.
Removal of endocrine disruptors by tertiary treatments and constructed wetlands in subtropical Australia.	The controversial topic of endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDC) in aquatic environments is of international and Australian significance with the need for sustainable management of water resources increasing. The issues have been highlighted on the major continents of Europe and North America but so far have received less attention in Australia. A major source of these compounds has been identified as sewage effluent, which is treated prior to release to the environment with a primary focus on pathogen and nutrient removal. Sewage effluent is a complex mixture, which can contain many organic and inorganic compounds some of which may remain after treatment processes. More recently, technologies such as ozonation, UV treatment and advanced filtration have improved the quality of effluent discharged to the environment but there are still unresolved issues relating to poorly understood chemistries relating to EDCs in effluent discharges and the possible impacts in aquatic environments and to human health. This paper reports on an investigation of the removal from sewage effluent of selected chemicals that are known or suspected environmental endocrine disruptors (EEDs) by sand filtration, ozonation and UV treatment at the Landeborough Water Reclamation Plant in Queensland, Australia. Compounds detected in the raw effluent included pesticides, herbicides, some heavy metals and the human hormones 17beta estradiol and estrone. Most of these ware removed by the advanced treatments at the water reclamation plant, with only trace concentrations of some compounds present in the final effluent. Removal of toxicants by a free water surface wetland is also reported on. Some of the constraints of direct chemical measurements are discussed and some solutions proposed.
Trypanocidal activity of extracts from Brazilian Atlantic Rain Forest plant species.	The trypanocidal activity of crude hydro alcoholic extracts and several fractions of 13 plants from Brazilian Atlantic Rain Forest were tested in vitro against epimastigote and trypomastigote forms of Trypanosoma cruzi, the etiological agent of Chagas disease. Crude ethanol extracts with promising in vitro activity (DL50 between 5-10 microg/ml) against epimastigotes were fractionated by solvent partition and further tested against bloodstream form of the parasite. Activity against bloodstream parasites was observed in both dichloromethane and hexane fractions of Polygala sabulosa and P. paniculata.
Dynamics of fungal communities in bulk and maize rhizosphere soil in the tropics.	The fungal population dynamics in soil and in the rhizospheres of two maize cultivars grown in tropical soils were studied by a cultivation-independent analysis of directly extracted DNA to provide baseline data. Soil and rhizosphere samples were taken from six plots 20, 40, and 90 days after planting in two consecutive years. A 1.65-kb fragment of the 18S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) amplified from the total community DNA was analyzed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and by cloning and sequencing. A rhizosphere effect was observed for fungal populations at all stages of plant development. In addition, pronounced changes in the composition of fungal communities during plant growth development were found by DGGE. Similar types of fingerprints were observed in two consecutive growth periods. No major differences were detected in the fungal patterns of the two cultivars. Direct cloning of 18S rDNA fragments amplified from soil or rhizosphere DNA resulted in 75 clones matching 12 dominant DGGE bands. The clones were characterized by their HinfI restriction patterns, and 39 different clones representing each group of restriction patterns were sequenced. The cloning and sequencing approach provided information on the phylogeny of dominant amplifiable fungal populations and allowed us to determine a number of fungal phylotypes that contribute to each of the dominant DGGE bands. Based on the sequence similarity of the 18S rDNA fragment with existing fungal isolates in the database, it was shown that the rhizospheres of young maize plants seemed to select the Ascomycetes order Pleosporales, while different members of the Ascomycetes and basidiomycetic yeast were detected in the rhizospheres of senescent maize plants.
Relationship between air pollution and daily mortality in a tropical city: Kaohsiung, Taiwan.	Air pollution has been associated with daily mortality in numerous studies over the past decade. However, most of these studies were conducted in the United States and Europe, with relatively few done in Asia. In this study, the association between ambient air pollution and daily mortality in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, a large industrial city with a tropical climate, was investigated for the period 1994-2000 using a case-crossover analysis. This design is an alternative to Poisson time-series regression for studying the short-term adverse health effects of air pollution. The air pollutants examined included particulate matter (PM10), sulfur dioxide (SO2), ozone (O3), nitrogen dioxide (NO2), and carbon monoxide (CO). No significant effects were found between PM10 and SO2 exposure levels and respiratory-related mortality. The well-established link between air pollution levels and daily mortality may not be as strong in cities in tropical areas, although other factors such as differences in pollutant mixtures or underlying health of the population may explain the lack of a strong association in this study. Further studies of this type in cities with varying climates and cultures are needed.
Recovery from terminal and fruit damage by dry season cotton crops in tropical Australia.	We conducted a 2-yr field study on growth and yield compensation in cotton (Gossypium hirsutum L.) after artificial pest damage in Kununurra in NW Australia. The aim was to assess the responses of cotton grown in tropical Australia to simulated Helicoverpa damage early in the season (tip damage) and during fruiting (square removal). In this region, cotton is grown in an inverse temperature regimen to cotton grown in temperate regions, and it is possible that tropical cotton crops exhibit different responses to pest damage (Yeates 2001). To examine this, we imposed manual damage treatments by excising plant tips before squaring (flower bud production) and removing all large squares at 800 degree-days DD, (at base 12 degrees C; early square loss) or 1,200 DD (mid-square loss). We found high levels of tolerance in tropical cotton to simulated pest damage (particularly early square loss) equaling or possibly surpassing the compensatory response of cotton grown in temperate Australia. While yield did not differ between damage and control treatments, the trend suggests an increase in yield resulting from tip damage and early fruit loss. Compared with temperate crops, the delay in maturity caused by damage was minimal, owing to high rates of boll opening (up to 11% d(-1)). Early season tip damage resulted in a significant increase in lateral branch growth that later contributed to a higher fruiting potential. The altered canopy of tip-damaged plants also increased light interception, particularly in the upper canopy. Both of the above factors could confer a greater tolerance to subsequent fruit damage in tipped plants.
Desiccation tolerance of five tropical seedlings in panama. Relationship to a field assessment of drought performance.	Studies of the desiccation tolerance of the seedlings of five tropical trees were made on potted plants growing in a greenhouse. Pots were watered to field capacity and then dehydrated for 3 to 9 weeks to reach various visual wilting stages, from slightly wilted to dead. Saturated root hydraulic conductance was measured with a high-pressure flowmeter, and whole-stem hydraulic conductance was measured by a vacuum chamber method. Leaf punches (5.6-mm diameter) were harvested for measurement of leaf water potential by a thermocouple psychrometer method and for measurement of fresh and dry weight. In a parallel study, the same five species were studied in a field experiment in the understory of a tropical forest, where these species frequently germinate. Control seedlings were maintained in irrigated plots during a dry season, and experimental plants were grown in similar plots with rain exclusion shelters. Every 2 to 4 weeks, the seedlings were scored for wilt state and survivorship. After a 22-week drought, the dry plots were irrigated for several weeks to verify visual symptoms of death. The field trials were used to rank drought performance of species, and the greenhouse desiccation studies were used to determine the conditions of moribund plants. Our conclusion is that the desiccation tolerance of moribund plants correlated with field assessment of drought-performance for the five species (r(2) > 0.94).
Protein synthesis inhibitory activity in culture filtrates from new strains of Streptomyces isolated from Brazilian tropical soils.	To investigate the effect of the culture supernatants from three newly isolated Streptomyces strains, 221, 235 and 606 on eukaryotic cells.
Diversity of Gram negative bacteria antagonistic against major pathogens of rice from rice seed in the tropic environment.	With the use of a seed washing technique, more than 4000 Gram negative bacteria were isolated by two improved isolation methods from 446 batches of 1 kg rice seed samples obtained from 22 provinces in the Philippines. They were initially characterized on the basis of colony morphology and results of biochemical and pathogenicity tests. Six hundred and fifty-two strains were further identified by Biolog, from which 133 were selected for fatty acid methylester (FAME) analysis together with 80 standard reference strains. Sixteen species or types of Pseudomonas and 17 genera of non-pseudomonads were identified, more than one third of which have not been recorded in rice. The most predominant species observed were P.putida and P. fulva. About 17% of the strains of Pseudomonas and 2% of the non pseudomonads were antagonistic to one or more fungal or bacterial pathogens of rice. Rice seed is an important source of biological control agents.
Grouping of tropical mid-altitude maize inbred lines on the basis of yield data and molecular markers.	The classification of maize inbred lines into heterotic groups is an important undertaking in hybrid breeding. The objectives of our research were to: (1) separate selected tropical mid-altitude maize inbred lines into heterotic groups based on grain yield data; (2) assess the genetic relationships among these inbred lines using amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) and simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers; (3) examine the consistency between yield-based and marker-based groupings of the inbred lines. Thirty-eight tropical mid-altitude maize inbred lines were crossed to two inbred line testers representing the flint and dent heterotic pattern, respectively. The resulting testcrosses were evaluated in a trial at three locations for 2 years. Significant general combining ability (GCA) and specific combining ability (SCA) effects for grain yield were detected among the inbred lines. The tester inbred lines classified 23 of the 38 tested inbred lines into two heterotic groups based on SCA effects and testcross mean grain yields. This grouping was not related to endosperm type of the inbred lines. The outstanding performance of testcrosses of the remaining 15 inbred lines indicates the presence of significant genetic diversity that may allow the assignment of the lines into more than two heterotic groups. Diversity analysis of the 40 maize inbred lines using AFLP and SSR markers found high levels of genetic diversity among these lines and subdivided them into two main groups with subdivision into sub-groups consistent with breeding history, origin and parentage of the lines. However, heterotic groups formed using yield-based combining ability were different from the groups established on the basis of molecular markers. Considering the diversity of the genetic backgrounds of the mid-altitude inbred lines, the marker-based grouping may serve as the basis to design and carry out combining ability studies in the field to establish clearly defined heterotic groups with a greater genetic similarity within groups.
The effect of seed mass and gap size on seed fate of tropical rain forest tree species in guyana.	For eleven tree species, differing in seed mass, germination success (emergence success for two small-seeded species) and the causes of failure to germinate were studied in the forest understorey and in logging gaps in the tropical rain forests of Guyana. In the forest understorey, germination success increased with seed mass. However, as gap size increased the difference between smaller and larger seeded species diminished because germination success of smaller-seeded species increased slightly, while that of larger-seeded species decreased dramatically. The negative effect of gap size on germination success of larger-seeded species was caused by an increased risk of desiccation with gap size, which was a far more important seed mortality agent for larger than for smaller-seeded species. Generally, seeds of smaller-seeded species suffered more from insect predation and were removed at higher rates than larger-seeded species. On the other hand, larger-seeded species were eaten more by mammals than smaller-seeded species. It is concluded that logging can result in shifts in the species composition in the tropical rain forests of Guyana which are dominated by species with large seeds, since germination success of larger-seeded species is dramatically reduced in large logging gaps.
Ascomycete diversity in soil-feeding termite nests and soils from a tropical rainforest.	Molecular microbial ecology has revealed remarkable biodiversity - prokaryotic and eukaryotic - in numerous soil environments. However, no culture-independent surveys of the termitosphere exists, although termites dominate tropical rainforests. Here, we focused on soil feeders, building nests with their soil-born faeces, enriched with clay-organic complexes, thus contributing to the improvement of soil fertility. In order to assess the fungal community composition of these termitaries compared with soils not foraged by termites, samples of the two types were collected in the Lopé rainforest, Gabon, and processed for generation of fungal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) clone libraries. Although primers were universal, most of the recovered sequences represented Ascomycete that were previously uncharacterized and the proportions of which reached 72.5% in soils and 80% in termitaries. Their affiliation with identified fungi was analysed in performing a phylogenetic tree based on 5.8S rDNA. Furthermore, the ascomycete communities of soil-feeding termitaries and soils shared only 6.3% of sequences. This discrepancy of composition between soil and nest may result from the building behaviour of termites, as the organic matter in the nest is chemically modified, and some vacant ecological microniches are available for more specialized fungi.
Biosphere 2 Center as a unique tool for environmental studies.	The Biosphere 2 Laboratory of Biosphere 2 Center, Arizona, is a unique, self-contained glasshouse fostering several mesocosms of tropical and subtropical regions on an area of 12,700 m2. It was constructed around 1990 to test whether human life is possible in this completely sealed, self-sustaining artificial ecosystem. Mainly due to overly rich organic soils, the initial mission failed in a spectacular manner that raised enormous disbelief in the scientific seriousness of the project. From 1995 to 2003, the facility had been operated by Columbia University under a completely new scientific management. The aim of the project had then been to conduct research in the field of 'experimental climate change science'. Climatic conditions within the mesocosms can be precisely controlled. In studies with elevated CO2, altered temperature and irrigation regimes performed in the rainforest, coral reef and agriforestry mesocosm, the facility had proven to be a valuable tool for global climate change research. Upon submission of this manuscript, Columbia University is relinquishing the management of this facility now although there was a contract to operate the facility until 2010, leaving it with an unclear destiny that might bring about anything from complete abandonment to a new flowering phase with a new destination.
Atmospheric heavy metals in tropical South America during the past 22,000 years recorded in a high altitude ice core from Sajama, Bolivia.	V, Co, Cu, Zn, As, Rb, Sr, Ag, Cd, Ba, Pb, Bi and U have been analysed by inductively coupled plasma sector field mass spectrometry in various sections of a dated snow/ice core drilled at an altitude of 6542 m on the Sajama ice cap in Bolivia. The analysed sections were dated from the Last Glacial Stage ( approximately 22,000 years ago), the Mid-Holocene and the last centuries. The observed variations of crustal enrichment factors (EFc) for the various metals show contrasting situations. For V, Co, Rb, Sr and U, EFc values close to unity are observed for all sections, then showing that these elements are mainly derived from rock and soil dust. For the other metals, clear time trends are observed, with a pronounced increase of EFc values during the 19th and 20th centuries. This increase shows evidence of metal pollution associated with human activity in South America. For Pb an important contribution was from gasoline additives. For metals such as Cu, Zn, Ag and Cd an important contribution was from metal production activities, with a continuous increase of production during the 20th century in countries such as Peru, Chile and Bolivia.
The effect of sulfate-reducing bacteria on adsorption of 137Cs by soils from arid and tropical regions.	Soils from different climatic regions of Australia were studied to determine their adsorption of (137)Cs, and the effect of microbial sulfate reduction on this adsorption. The soils consisted of a surface and regolith samples from the site of a proposed low and intermediate level radioactive waste repository in arid South Australia, and two red earth loam soils from an experimental plot in the tropical Northern Territory. The process of bacterial sulfate reduction substantially decreased the adsorption of (137)Cs to the arid and tropical soils, although extended incubation resulted in greater adsorption to the regolith sample. This could have implications for the mobility of radionuclides entering these soil ecosystems.
Numerical analyses of soft bottom invertebrates to diagnose the pollution in tropical coastal waters.	Soft bottom benthic organisms especially polychaetes are known to adapt as r or k selected strategies to different gradients of pollution. This will result in changes of benthic community structure from that of normal structure. There are a number of techniques to assess the impact of pollution on benthic community structure. Hence, to test this hypotheses some of the univariate and multivariate techniques were applied to soft bottom macro-invertebrates data of coastal waters of Mangalore, central west coast of India, a hot-spot area. Univariate techniques such as Pearson Rosenberg Model (PRM), abundance biomass comparison curve (ABC), geometrical class distribution, dominance-diversity curve, benthic community structure indices and multivariate techniques such as cluster classification, multidimensional scaling (MDS) and principal component analysis (PCA) were used to discriminate and diagnose the disturbance among the sites. Effectiveness and applicability of some of the above techniques are highlighted and discussed with the present set of data for environmental impact assessment studies.
Historical demography of Mullerian mimicry in the neotropical Heliconius butterflies.	We compare the historical demographies of two Müllerian comimetic butterfly species: Heliconius erato and Heliconius melpomene. These species show an extensive parallel geographic divergence in their aposematic wing phenotypes. Recent studies suggest that this coincident mosaic results from simultaneous demographic processes shaped by extrinsic forces over Pleistocene climate fluctuations. However, DNA sequence variation at two rapidly evolving unlinked nuclear loci, Mannose phosphate isomerase (Mpi) and Triose phosphate isomerase (Tpi), show that the comimetic species have quite different quaternary demographies. In H. erato, despite ongoing lineage sorting across the Andes, nuclear genealogical estimates showed little geographical structure, suggesting high historical gene flow. Coalescent-based demographic analysis revealed population growth since the Pliocene period. Although these patterns suggest vicariant population subdivision associated with the Andean orogeny, they are not consistent with hypotheses of Pleistocene population fragmentation facilitating allopatric wing phenotype radiation in H. erato. In contrast, nuclear genetic diversity, theta, in H. melpomene was reduced relative to its comimic and revealed three phylogeographical clades. The pattern of coalescent events within regional clades was most consistent with population growth in relatively isolated populations after a recent period of restricted population size. These different demographic histories suggest that the wing-pattern radiations were not coincident in the two species. Instead, larger effective population size (N(e)) in H. erato, together with profound population change in H. melpomene, supports an earlier hypothesis that H. erato diversified first as the model species of this remarkable mimetic association.
Response of naked neck (Nana) and normal (nana) broiler chickens to dietary energy levels in a subtropical climate.	1. The comparative response of naked neck (Nana) broiler chickens and their normally feathered (nana) full sibs to varied dietary energy levels was assessed under natural ambient conditions in a subtropical climate in two separate trials, one in winter (19.0 to 26.0 degrees C) and the other in summer (28.1 to 37.4 degrees C). 2. The chickens were fed on diets with 10.9, 11.5 or 12.1 MJ ME/kg and with a constant protein content of 200 g/kg from 1 to 42 d of age. 3. Both genotypes showed similar body weight, food intake and food conversion efficiency at 42 d of age. Body weight and food conversion efficiency improved on the diet with the highest energy content. 4. Apparent retention (AR) of crude protein (CP) was higher in nana chickens than in their Nana sibs in the winter trial, while no differences were observed for AR of dry matter (DM), crude fibre (CF), ether extract (EE) or calcium. In the summer trial, no difference in nutrient retention was seen between the genotypes. Increasing dietary energy had a positive influence on AR of DM, CP and EE. 5. The relative weights of feathers and skin were lower in Nana chickens than in their normal counterparts. Ready-to-cook yields were greater at the high dietary energy content, while abdominal fat increased with increasing energy content. Nana chickens had more skin protein and less fat in breast muscle and skin than their normal sibs in the summer trial. 6. It was concluded that the Nana broiler chickens showed similar performance and did not differ in dietary energy requirements in comparison to their nana sibs under natural ambient conditions in a subtropical climate.
Can hematological parameters discriminate malaria from nonmalarious acute febrile illness in the tropics?	Malaria is considered as the main differential diagnosis of acute febrile illness in the tropics, and alteration of various hematological parameters has been observed in patients with malaria.
Evidence for deep-water production in the North Pacific Ocean during the early Cenozoic warm interval.	The deep-ocean circulation is responsible for a significant component of global heat transport. In the present mode of circulation, deep waters form in the North Atlantic and Southern oceans where surface water becomes sufficiently cold and dense to sink. Polar temperatures during the warmest climatic interval of the Cenozoic era (approximately 65 to 40 million years (Myr) ago) were significantly warmer than today, and this may have been a consequence of enhanced oceanic heat transport. However, understanding the relationship between deep-ocean circulation and ancient climate is complicated by differences in oceanic gateways, which affect where deep waters form and how they circulate. Here I report records of neodymium isotopes from two cores in the Pacific Ocean that indicate a shift in deep-water production from the Southern Ocean to the North Pacific approximately 65 Myr ago. The source of deep waters reverted back to the Southern Ocean 40 Myr ago. The relative timing of changes in the neodymium and oxygen isotope records indicates that changes in Cenozoic deep-water circulation patterns were the consequence, not the cause, of extreme Cenozoic warmth.
Bacterial pneumopathies of the newborn: diagnostic and therapeutic aspects]	To describe the diagnosis and therapeutic management of bacterial pneumopathies in a neonatology unit located in a tropical area.
Heat induced male sterility in Drosophila melanogaster: adaptive genetic variations among geographic populations and role of the Y chromosome.	We analyzed genetic variation among geographically diverse populations of Drosophila and showed that tropical flies are more tolerant than temperate ones to heat-induced male sterility, as assessed by the presence of both motile sperm and progeny production. In tropical populations, the temperature inducing 50% sterility (median threshold) is 1 degrees C above the value for temperate populations (30.4 vs. 29.4 degrees C). When transferred to a mild permissive temperature (21 degrees C), males recover fertility. Recovery time is proportional to pre-adult culture temperature. At these temperatures, recovery time is greater for temperate than for tropical populations. Crosses between a temperate and a tropical strain (F1, F2 and successive backcrosses) revealed that the Y chromosome was responsible for much of the geographic variation. Sterile males exhibited diverse abnormalities in the shape and position of sperm nuclei. However, impairment of the spermatid elongation seems to be the major factor responsible for sperm inviability. Heat-induced male sterility seems to be quite a general phenomenon in Drosophilid species and variation of threshold temperatures may be important for explaining their geographic distributions.
The species flocks of East African cichlid fishes: recent advances in molecular phylogenetics and population genetics.	With more than 3,000 species, the fish family Cichlidae is one of the most species-rich families of vertebrates. Cichlids occur in southern and central America, Africa, Madagascar, and India. The hotspot of their biodiversity is East Africa, where they form adaptive radiations composed of hundreds of endemic species in several lakes of various sizes and ages. The unparalleled species richness of East African cichlids has been something of a conundrum for evolutionary biologists and ecologists, since it has been in doubt whether these hundreds of species arose by allopatric speciation or whether it is necessary to invoke somewhat less traditional models of speciation, such as micro-allopatric, peripatric, or even sympatric speciation or evolution through sexual selection mediated by female choice. Ernst Mayr's analyses of these evolutionary uniquely diverse species assemblages have contributed to a more direct approach to this problem and have led to a deeper understanding of the patterns and processes that caused the formation of these huge groups of species. We review here recent molecular data on population differentiation and phylogenetics, which have helped to unravel, to some extent, the patterns and processes that led to the formation and ecological maintenance of cichlid species flocks. It is becoming apparent that sexually selected traits do play an important role in speciation in micro-allopatric or even sympatric settings. Species richness seems to be roughly correlated with the surface area, but not the age, of the lakes. We observe that the oldest lineages of a species flock of cichlids are often less species-rich and live in the open water or deepwater habitats. While the species flocks of the Lake Malawai and the Lake Victoria areas were shown to be monophyletic, the cichlid assemblage of Lake Tanganyika seems to consist of several independent species flocks. Cichlids emerge as an evolutionary model system in which many fundamental questions in evolution and ecology can be tested successfully, yet for other fish species flocks the relative importance of alternative mechanisms of speciation is likely to differ from that in cichlid fish.
Radionuclide applications in laboratory studies of environmental surface reactions.	The advantages of using radionuclides for laboratory studies of environmental processes include the wide range of element concentrations that can be studied, the capability to simultaneously study several isotopes in a single experiment, the direct applicability to the behaviour of radioactive waste or fallout, and the ability to study the mechanisms, reversibility and kinetics of environmental reactions under controlled conditions. These attributes are demonstrated using specific examples drawn from case studies in Australia, including radionuclide fallout onto tropical soils, the association of trace metals with harbour sediments and the behaviour of uranium in natural and contaminated systems.
Properties of two tropical soils in relation to the transport of radionuclides in the rhizosphere.	The uptake of radionuclides by commercial crops is being studied at two sites, Blain and Tippera, in a research farm in the Northern Territory, Australia. Studies have been performed to characterise the properties of the two soils, particularly the hydraulic properties that are considered to significantly influence the transport and plant uptake of these radionuclides in the soils The Blain soil, a sandy loam, has been categorised as SM according to the Unified Soil Classification System. Quartz is the dominant mineral for the Blain soil. The Tippera soil, a kaolinitic clayey loam has been categorised as CL. Chemical analysis results were consistent with these findings. The saturated hydraulic conductivity values were of the order of 10(-4) cm/s for the Blain soil. These values were greater by 3-4 orders of magnitude than those for the Tippera soils. The results obtained from the hydraulic property measurements were used to estimate the unsaturated hydraulic properties. A bimodal description based on van Genuchten-type partial saturation functions was used for the estimation. The estimation was qualitatively consistent with the soil types.
Seasonal changes of redox potential and microbial activity in two agricultural soils of tropical Australia: some implications for soil-to-plant transfer of radionuclides.	Very little is known of the factors controlling soil-to-plant transfer of radionuclides in tropical environments. As part of an IAEA/FAO coordinated research project (CRP) designed to elucidate some of those factors, near-surface samples of two agricultural red-earth soils (Blain and Tippera) were collected from a study site in the Northern Territory. The climate is tropical monsoonal with crops being grown over the wet season from December to March/April. It is important to understand soil variables that may be related to this dramatic seasonality. In this investigation, soil redox state and microbial populations were assessed before and after the growing season with a view to generating hypotheses for future evaluation. The X-ray absorption near edge structure (XANES) technique was used to determine overall changes in the solid-state redox speciation of Fe and Mn in soils across the growing period. Fe speciation did not change but approximately 10% of the total Mn was oxidised from Mn(II) to Mn(III) and Mn(IV) in both soils between October 1999 and April 2000. An apparent disconnect between Fe and Mn was not unexpected given the >10 times higher concentration of Fe in the soils compared with Mn. These results have implications for the bioavailability of redox sensitive radionuclides such as Tc and Pu. Similarly, microbial population estimates were derived before and after the growing period. Total bacterial populations did not vary from 10(6) to 10(7) colonies per gram. Fungal populations increased over the growing season from 3-6 x 10(5) to 1-4 x 10(6) colonies per gram of soil. Fungi have the potential to decrease soil pH and hence increase the bioavailability of radionuclides such as Cs. In addition, fungi act to facilitate plant nutrition. This could lead to enhanced accumulation of nutrient analogues (e.g. Sr and Ra for Ca; Tc for Mn), but this effect may be masked by improved biomass production.
Anaerobic ponds treatment of starch wastewater: case study in Thailand.	Anaerobic ponds are particularly effective in treating high-strength wastewater containing biodegradable solids as they achieve the dual purpose of particulate settlement and organic removal. Performance of an anaerobic pond system for treatment of starch wastewater containing high organic carbon, biodegradable starch particulate matter and cyanide was assessed under tropical climate conditions. Approximately 5000 m3/d of wastewater from starch industry was treated in a series of anaerobic ponds with a total area of 7.39 ha followed by facultative ponds with an area of 29.11 ha. Overall COD and TSS removal of over 90% and CN removal of 51% was observed. Active biomass obtained from the anaerobic ponds sediments and bulk liquid layer exhibited specific methanogenic activity of 20.7 and 11.3 ml CH4/g VSS d, respectively. The cyanide degradability of sludge at initial cyanide concentration of 10 and 20 mg/l were determined to be 0.43 and 0.84 mg CN-/g VSS d, respectively. A separate settling column experiment with starch wastewater revealed that a settling time of approximately 120 min is sufficient to remove 90-95% of the influent TSS.
Effect of interactions on the nutrient status of a tropical soil treated with green manures and inorganic phosphate fertilizers.	Integrated nutrient management systems using plant residues and inorganic P fertilizers have high potential for increasing crop production and ensuring sustainability in the tropics, but their adoption requires in-depth understanding of nutrient dynamics in such systems. This was examined in a highly weathered tropical soil treated with green manures (GMs) and P fertilizers in two experiments conducted in the laboratory and glasshouse. The treatments were factorial combinations of the GMs (Calopogonium caeruleum, Gliricidia sepium, and Imperata cylindrica) and P fertilizers (phosphate rocks [PRs] from North Carolina, China, and Algeria, and triple superphosphate) replicated thrice. Olsen P, mineral N, pH, and exchangeable K, Ca, and Mg were monitored in a laboratory incubation study for 16 months. The change in soil P fractions and available P was also determined at the end of the study. Phosphorus available from the amendments was quantified at monthly intervals for 5 months by 33P-32P double isotopic labeling in the glasshouse using Setaria sphacelata as test crop. The GMs were labeled with 33P to determine their contribution to P taken up by Setaria, while that from the P fertilizers was indirectly measured by labeling the soil with 32P. The P fertilizers hardly changed Olsen P and exchangeable cations during 16 months of incubation. The legume GMs and legume GM+P did not change Olsen P, lowered exchangeable Ca, and increased exchangeable K about threefold (4.5 cmol[+]kg(-1) soil) in the first 4 months, even as large amounts of NH4-N accumulated (approximately 1000 mg kg soil(-1)) and soil pH increased to more than 6.5. Afterwards, Olsen P and exchangeable Ca and Mg increased (threefold) as NH4+-N and soil pH declined. The legume GMs also augmented reversibly sorbed P in Al-P and Fe-P fractions resulting in high residual effect in the soil, while fertilizer-P was irreversibly retained. The GMs increased PR-P utilization by 40 to over 80%, mobilized soil P, and markedly enhanced uptake of N, K, Ca, and Mg. Thus GMs+PRs is an appropriate combination for correcting nutrient deficiencies in tropical soils.
Defences against ammonia toxicity in tropical air-breathing fishes exposed to high concentrations of environmental ammonia: a review.	In the tropics, air-breathing fishes can be exposed to environmental ammonia when stranded in puddles of water during the dry season, during a stay inside a burrow, or after agricultural fertilization. At low concentrations of environmental ammonia, NH(3) excretion is impeded, as in aerial exposure, leading to the accumulation of endogenous ammonia. At high concentrations of environmental ammonia, which results in a reversed NH(3) partial pressure gradient (DeltaP(NH3)), there is retention of endogenous ammonia and uptake of exogenous ammonia. In this review, several tropical air-breathing fishes (giant mudskipper, African catfish, oriental weatherloach, swamp eel, four-eyed sleeper, abehaze and slender African lungfish), which can tolerate high environmental ammonia exposure, are used as examples to demonstrate how eight different adaptations can be involved in defence against ammonia toxicity. Four of these adaptations deal with ammonia toxicity at branchial and/or epithelial surfaces: (1) active excretion of NH(4)(+); (2) lowering of environmental pH; (3) low NH(3) permeability of epithelial surfaces; and (4) volatilization of NH(3), while another four adaptations ameliorate ammonia toxicity at the cellular and subcellular levels: (5) high tolerance of ammonia at the cellular and subcellular levels; (6) reduction in ammonia production; (7) glutamine synthesis; and (8) urea synthesis. The responses of tropical air-breathing fishes to high environmental ammonia are determined apparently by behavioural adaptations and the nature of their natural environments.
Genetic effects of rainforest fragmentation in an early successional tree (Elaeocarpus grandis).	Rainforests in Australia and around the world have been extensively cleared and degraded. It is essential to recognize the changes in population diversity and dynamics that follow habitat fragmentation if better conservation and management strategies are to be developed. This study is an investigation of the medium term (over 100 years) effects of rainforest fragmentation on a long-lived, early successional tree species within a habitat matrix that includes various types of fragmented and undisturbed sites. Five microsatellite loci were used to assess the level and distribution of genetic variation across the southern range of Elaeocarpus grandis (Elaeocarpaceae). In all, 21 sites were sampled to provide a direct comparison between fragmented and undisturbed populations. Overall levels of diversity (A=3.4, He=0.568, f=0.094) were higher than those of closely related endemic species, but lower than those recorded across other rainforest trees. No significant genetic structure was detected across this species, suggesting the existence of efficient dispersal and colonization mechanisms responsible for the maintenance of gene flow. Rainforest fragments, and in particular those within the extensively cleared Big Scrub, show a trend for increased inbreeding levels caused by a loss of heterozygosity within juvenile cohorts. However, the overall rate of genetic decline within fragmented rainforests appears to be more subtle in E. grandis than across other species. A combination of ecological attributes and evolutionary history is likely to have contributed to this outcome and need to be considered in future rainforest restoration projects.
Ant-plant-herbivore interactions in the neotropical cerrado savanna.	The Brazilian cerrado savanna covers nearly 2 million km2 and has a high incidence on foliage of various liquid food sources such as extrafloral nectar and insect exudates. These liquid rewards generate intense ant activity on cerrado foliage, making ant-plant-herbivore interactions especially prevalent in this biome. We present data on the distribution and abundance of extrafloral nectaries in the woody flora of cerrado communities and in the flora of other habitats worldwide, and stress the relevance of liquid food sources (including hemipteran honeydew) for the ant fauna. Consumption by ants of plant and insect exudates significantly affects the activity of the associated herbivores of cerrado plant species, with varying impacts on the reproductive output of the plants. Experiments with an ant-plant-butterfly system unequivocally demonstrate that the behavior of both immature and adult lepidopterans is closely related to the use of a risky host plant, where intensive visitation by ants can have a severe impact on caterpillar survival. We discuss recent evidence suggesting that the occurrence of liquid rewards on leaves plays a key role in mediating the foraging ecology of foliage-dwelling ants, and that facultative ant-plant mutualisms are important in structuring the community of canopy arthropods. Ant-mediated effects on cerrado herbivore communities can be revealed by experiments performed on wide spatial scales, including many environmental factors such as soil fertility and vegetation structure. We also present some research questions that could be rewarding to investigate in this major neotropical savanna.
Nutritive value and qualitative assessment of secondary compounds in seeds of eight tropical browse, shrub and pulse legumes.	Seeds of four tropical multipurpose trees (Albizia saman, Albizia lebbeck, Albizia rhizonse, Leucaena leucocephala), two shrubs (Tephrosia candida, Tephrosia bracteolata) and two pulse legume (Lablab purpureus, Canavalia ensiformis) were chemically analysed for dry matter (DM), ash, crude protein (CP), neutral detergent fibre (NDF) and ether extract (EE). Qualitative evaluation of secondary metabolites (saponins, phenols, steroids, and alkaloids) was elucidated. The DM, ash, CP, NDF and EE ranged between 88.9-93.6 %, 3.0-5.4 %, 24.8-38.2 %, 22.1-46.9 % and 2.0-17.0 % respectively. All seed species contained at least one group of secondary plant metabolites and steroids were common to all except C. ensiformis that was not implicated for any. A. lebbeck and A. rhizonse showed low saponin content. Indications for water soluble tannins were reported for L. leucocephala while the two species of Tephrosia contained flavonoids or condensed tannins. The study suggested the potentials of the legumes seed species as a feed source for ruminants.
Protein and energy requirements of pre-weaned West African dwarf goats fed soyabean diet as a replacement for milk in a tropical environment.	Twenty-one early-weaned West African dwarf goats weighing between 1.0 and 1.5 kg at birth were used to assess the protein and energy requirement of pre-weaned West African Dwarf (WAD) goats fed soyabean diet. Three isonitrogenous diets (24%) were prepared such that dried whole-milk protein was replaced by corn starch and soyabean concentrate protein at 0.0%, 25.0% and 50.0% levels such that a 14.5% total solid solution was obtained for each diet. Results indicated that a daily digestible energy (expressed as kcal/day/W0.75 kg) intake of 58.2, 63.7, 98.5 and 114.6 kcal was required for maintenance, while a corresponding value of 7.37, 4.50, 2.18 and 1.91 kcal was required per day per gram live weight gain by the kids at 4, 6, 9 and 13weeks old, respectively. Similarly, a digestible crude protein (DCP) intake of 3.59 g/day/W0.75 kg) appeared to be adequate for maintenance of the kids between 0 and 13 weeks, while 0.34 g/day/W0.75 kg of DCP intake was required per day per gram live weight.
Effect of early weaning, split-weaning and nursery feeding programmes on the growth of Landrace x Desi pigs.	An experiment using 164 crossbred pigs born to 20 first-parity sows was conducted to evaluate the growth performance of piglets in four weaning management regimens: T1, conventional weaning at 56 days; T2, early weaning at 28 days; T3, split-weaning of the heavier half of the litter at day 28, the remaining half being weaned at 56 days; and T4, split-weaning of the lighter half of the litter at 28 days, with the animals kept on a special nutrient diet up to 56 days, and the heavier half being weaned at 56 days. Split-weaning of the lighter half in combination with feeding a special nutrient diet resulted in an increase of average daily gain of 21% from day 28 to day 140 compared to conventional weaning and of 36% compared to early weaning at day 28. Compared to the control (T1), the average weights of piglets at the 140th day in groups T4 and T3 were 19.6% and 6.16%, respectively, higher, whereas that of the T2 was 8% lower. It is concluded that feeding a special nutrient diet to lighter pigs is beneficial in overcoming the post-weaning lag and enables maximal weight gain.
Speciation and diversity on tropical rocky shores: a global phylogeny of snails of the genus Echinolittorina.	A phylogenetic approach to the origin and maintenance of species diversity ideally requires the sampling of all species within a clade, confirmation that they are evolutionarily distinct entities, and knowledge of their geographical distributions. In the marine tropics such studies have mostly been of fish and reef-associated organisms, usually with high dispersal. In contrast, snails of the genus Echinolittorina (Littorinidae) are restricted to rocky shores, have a four-week pelagic development (and recorded dispersal up to 1400 km), and show different evolutionary patterns. We present a complete molecular phylogeny of Echinolittorina, derived from Bayesian analysis of sequences from nuclear 28S rRNA and mitochondrial 12S rRNA and COI genes (nodal support indicated by posterior probabilities, maximum likelihood, and neighbor-joining bootstrap). This consists of 59 evolutionarily significant units (ESUs), including all 50 known taxonomic species. The 26 ESUs found in the Indo-West Pacific region form a single clade, whereas the eastern Pacific and Atlantic species are basal. The earliest fossil occurred in the Tethys during the middle Eocene and we suggest that the Indo-West Pacific clade has been isolated since closure of the Tethyan seaway in the early Miocene. The geographical distributions of all species (based on more than 3700 locality records) appear to be circumscribed by barriers of low temperature, unsuitable sedimentary habitat, stretches of open water exceeding about 1400 km, and differences in oceanographic conditions on the continuum between oceanic and continental. The geographical ranges of sister species show little or no overlap, indicating that the speciation mode is predominantly allopatric. Furthermore, range expansion following speciation appears to have been limited, because a high degree of allopatry is maintained through three to five branching points of the phylogeny. This may be explained by infrequent long-distance colonization, habitat specialization on the oceanic/continental gradient, and perhaps by interspecific competition. In the eastern Pacific plus Atlantic we identify five cases of divergence on either side of the Isthmus of Panama, but our estimates of their ages pre-date the emergence of the Isthmus. There are three examples of sister relationships between species in the western Atlantic and eastern Atlantic, all resulting from dispersal to the east. Within the Indo-West Pacific, we find no geographical pattern of speciation events; narrowly endemic species of recent origin are present in both peripheral and central parts of the region. Evidence from estimated divergence times of sister species, and from a plot of the number of lineages over time, suggest that there has been no acceleration of diversification during the glacio-eustatic cycles of the Plio-Pleistocene. In comparison with reefal organisms, species of Echinolittorina on rocky shores may be less susceptible to extinction or isolation during sea-level fluctuations. The species richness of Echinolittorina in the classical biogeographic provinces conforms to the common pattern of highest diversity (11 species) in the central "East Indies Triangle" of the Indo-West Pacific, with a subsidiary focus in the eastern Pacific and western Atlantic, and lowest diversity in the eastern Atlantic. The diversity focus in the East Indies Triangle is produced by a mosaic of restricted allopatric species and overlap of a few widespread ones, and is the result of habitat specialization rather than historical vicariance. This study emphasizes the plurality of biogeographic histories and speciation patterns in the marine tropics.
Trigger events: enviroclimatic coupling of Ebola hemorrhagic fever outbreaks.	We use spatially continuous satellite data as a correlate of precipitation within tropical Africa and show that the majority of documented Ebola hemorrhagic fever outbreaks were closely associated with sharply drier conditions at the end of the rainy season. We propose that these trigger events may enhance transmission of Ebola virus from its cryptic reservoir to humans. These findings suggest specific directions to help understand the sylvatic cycle of the virus and may provide early warning tools to detect possible future outbreaks of this enigmatic disease.
An >>Open Source<< Perspective of earliest hominid origins.	The >>Open Source<< Perspective deals with the spatio-temporal distribution pattern of Miocene hominids and suggests a pan-African perspective on the evolution of bipedalism. The shrinking of the rainforest from the Middle Miocene resulted in a selection pressure that was similar along its wide-stretched margin. The earliest hominids might represent co-existing geographic variants.
A comparative study on Amomum villosum cultivation under tropical wet seasonal rainforest and secondary forest at Xishuangbanna]	In order to protect rainforests, change the present Amomum villosum cultivation model, and explore the possibility of cultivating A. villosum under secondary forest, a comparative study was made on the growth and fruit yield of A. villosum cultivated under tropical wet seasonal rainforest and secondary forest at Xishuangbanna. The results showed that A. villosum cultivation had a significant effect on rainforest biomass and net productivity, but no effect on secondary forest. Under both rainforest and secondary forest, the order of plant density and biomass, from big to small, was vigorous plant, senescent plant, seedling, and shoot. The sum of shoot and seedlings was 3.95 and 1.66 times of senescent plant under rainforest and secondary forest, respectively, which meant that A. villosum could maintain population stability. Under rainforest, many of A. villosum seedlings were poorly growing old ones, and most of them could not grow and develop normally. The density and biomass of vigorous plant were not significantly different under rainforest and secondary forest, but those of shoot, seedling and senescent plant were significantly higher under secondary forest than under rainforest, suggesting that A. villosum rejuvenescence was faster under secondary forest. A. villosum fruit yield was 78.068 kg x hm(-2) in secondary forest, slightly higher than that in rainforest. It was worthwhile to notice that A. villosum yield was very low, its stem biomass ratio was very high (above 0.6), and the fruit biomass ratio was extremely low (about 0.01), which showed that the yield-increasing potency of A. villosum was great through improving biomass partition between fruit and stem. The biomass and canopy coverage of secondary forest was lower than those of rainforest, but the soil water content of secondary forest was similar to that of rainforest, which was favorable to the growth and development of A. villosum. The results presented above indicated that A. villosum could be cultivated in secondary forest.
Mountain biodiversity patterns at low and high latitudes.	This paper presents an overview of mountain biodiversity at a multitude of scales in space, time, and function. Even though species richness is usually the focal component in nature conservation, genetic diversity within species is equally important. The small-scale distribution of species in the tropical Andes, as exemplified by the plant genera Calceolaria and Bartsia, contrasts against the situation in high-latitude mountains, e.g., the Scandes, where species have wide ranges and many are circumpolar. Recent studies on alpine plants based on molecular methods show that the intraspecific genetic diversity tends to increase with latitude, a situation brought about by the glaciation history with repeated contraction-expansion episodes of species' distributions. In tropical mountains, species distributions are geographically much narrower, often as a result of relatively recent, local speciation. Thus, whereas species richness in mountains decreases from the Equator towards the poles, genetic diversity shows the opposite trend. Finally, a comparison of ecosystem diversity in low- and high-latitude mountain ranges (tropical Andes vs. Scandes) shows that the landscapes differ profoundly with regard to timberline ecotones, snow distribution, and climate variables, and are subject to widely different impacts of global change
Non-structural carbohydrate pools in a tropical forest.	The pool size of mobile, i.e. non-structural carbohydrates (NSC) in trees reflects the balance between net photosynthetic carbon uptake (source) and irreversible investments in structures or loss of carbon (sink). The seasonal variation of NSC concentration should reflect the sink/source relationship, provided all tissues from root to crown tops are considered. Using the Smithsonian canopy crane in Panama we studied NSC concentrations in a semi-deciduous tropical forest over 22 months. In the 9 most intensively studied species (out of the 17 investigated), we found higher NSC concentrations (starch, glucose, fructose, sucrose) across all species and organs in the dry season than in the wet season (NSC 7.2% vs 5.8% of dry matter in leaves, 8.8/6.0 in branches, 9.7/8.5 in stems, 8.3/6.4 in coarse and 3.9/2.2 in fine roots). Since this increase was due to starch only, we attribute this to drought-constrained growth (photosynthesis less affected by drought than sink activity). Species-specific phenological rhythms (leafing or fruiting) did not overturn these seasonal trends. Most of the stem volume (diameter at breast height around 40 cm) stores NSC. We present the first whole forest estimate of NSC pool size, assuming a 200 t ha(-1) forest biomass: 8% of this i.e. ca. 16 t ha(-1) is NSC, with ca. 13 t ha(-1) in stems and branches, ca. 0.5 and 2.8 t ha(-1) in leaves and roots. Starch alone (ca. 10.5 t ha(-1)) accounts for far more C than would be needed to replace the total leaf canopy without additional photosynthesis. NSC never passed through a period of significant depletion. Leaf flushing did not draw heavily upon NSC pools. Overall, the data imply a high carbon supply status of this forest and that growth during the dry season is not carbon limited. Rather, water shortage seems to limit carbon investment (new tissue formation) directly, leaving little leeway for a direct CO2 fertilization effects.
Variation in crown light utilization characteristics among tropical canopy trees.	Light extinction through crowns of canopy trees determines light availability at lower levels within forests. The goal of this paper is the exploration of foliage distribution and light extinction in crowns of five canopy tree species in relation to their shoot architecture, leaf traits (mean leaf angle, life span, photosynthetic characteristics) and successional status (from pioneers to persistent).
The direct and indirect effects of insectivory by birds in two contrasting Neotropical forests.	A goal among community ecologists is to predict when and where trophic cascades occur. For example, several studies have shown that forest birds can limit arthropod abundances on trees, but indirect effects of bird predation (i.e. decreased arthropod damage to trees) are not always observed and their context is not well understood. Because productivity is one factor that is expected to influence trophic cascades, we compared the extent to which birds indirectly limit herbivore damage to trees in two lowland Neotropical forests that differed in seasonality of leaf production and rainfall. We compared the effects of bird predation on local arthropod densities and on damage to foliage through a controlled experiment using bird exclosures in the canopy and understory of two forests. We found that birds decreased local arthropod densities and leaf damage in the canopy of the drier site during periods of high leaf production, but not in the wetter forest where leaf production was low and sporadic throughout the year. Birds had no effect on arthropod abundances and leaf damage in the understory where leaf production and turnover rates were low. In support of these experimental interpretations, although we observed that arthropod densities were similar at the two sites, bird densities and the rate at which birds captured arthropods were greater at the drier, seasonally productive site. The influence of top-down predation by birds in limiting herbivorous insects appears to be conditional and most important when the production and turnover of leaves are comparatively high.
Prevalence and causes of blindness in a tropical African population.	A population based survey of Egbedore Local Government area (LGA), a tropical African population in Osun State, Nigeria was conducted to determine the prevalence and causes of blindness in the community, Osun State, one of the new states created on 27th August, 1991 is situated in the southwest region of Nigeria. It has a population of about 2, 654,244 using the population growth rate of 3.0 percent per year. Egbedore LGA has a population of 49,555 being the projected estimate of the local census done in 1991.
Snakebite in tropical Australia: a prospective study in the "Top End" of the Northern Territory.	To describe the epidemiology of snakebite in the "Top End" of the Northern Territory, and the envenoming syndromes of individual snake species.
Progesterone profiles and oestrous cycle changes following superovulatory treatment of Holstein-Friesian dairy cows in a tropical environment.	Changes of progesterone (P4) profiles and oestrous cycle were investigated up to 70 days in 20 superovulated Holstein-Friesian cows in a dry tropical environment (Brazil). Superovulated cows showed no significant differences in relation to P4 level at the time of embryo recovery (39.0 +/- 27.1 nmol/L, P = 0.536), first and second (12.0 +/- 6.0 and 10.7 +/- 2.2 nmol/L, P = 0.543) cycle. There was a close correlation between serum P4 concentration and the number of corpora lutea (CL; 13.3 +/- 9.5) at the recovery (P < 0.0001). After the embryo collection, cows returned to cycle in different ways: (i) group of donors returning to cycle after 2.2 +/- 0.8 days, (ii) group with a delay of 11.0 +/- 1.9 days; and (iii) animals having a long (28.8 +/- 2.2 days) acyclic period, which is significant (P < 0.001). The remaining animals (30%) showed cystic ovarian malformations. P4 level at the time of embryo recovery does not influence the oestrous cycle changes. The results suggest that Holstein-Friesian donor cows may suffer from cystic ovarian degeneration and may have a long acyclic period after superovulatory treatment in a tropical climate.
Neonatal colonic mucormycosis--a tropical perspective.	Neonatal gastrointestinal (GI) mucormycosis is a rare, usually fatal, opportunistic fungal infection, which is difficult to diagnose early or preoperatively. We report three babies, only one of whom survived, with a review of the literature. All three had similar findings of necrosis of colon with multiple perforations. While the first baby was diagnosed as long segment Hirschsprung's, the second was treated as small left colon but went on to show signs of peritonitis. The third presented with pneumonia, which progressed to sepsis and peritonitis. All three were diagnosed by histology postoperatively and two of them succumbed, one in spite of amphotericin and the other as he was too sick to start antifungals and had a rapid downhill course. The one who survived did so even though she did not receive amphotericin, but had clear margins of resection. The only chance of survival in this fatal disease is early diagnosis and rapid institution of aggressive therapy inclusive of adequate surgical debridement and appropriate antifungal medications.
Malarial vectors in an irrigated rice cultivation area in southern Sri Lanka.	Entomological surveys were carried out from March 1998 to December 1999 to study the prevalence, distribution and abundance of malarial vectors in relation to selected environmental factors and potential mosquito breeding sites in irrigation channels in 15 villages in the Lunugamvehera Irrigation and Settlement Project, a malaria-endemic area of southern Sri Lanka. Mosquito collections were made at monthly intervals using four sampling methods. Thirteen anopheline species were collected. Following monsoonal rains, anopheline breeding took place primarily in rainwater accumulations. During the inter-monsoonal period, pools formed in the irrigation system, semi-permanent pools formed as a result of rainfall and permanent ground pools were the major breeding sites of anophelines. Very little anopheline breeding took place within the irrigation channels. Amongst the seven anopheline species collected from human dwellings, Anopheles subpictus was the most prevalent, followed by A. culicifacies; together these two species comprised more than 99% of the indoor resting population. The number of days of rain was an important macro-epidemiological factor influencing the density of malarial vectors. There was no consistent trend between the amount of water released or the number of days of water release from the reservoir and the outdoor or indoor resting densities of anophelines.
Corticosterone suppresses cutaneous immune function in temperate but not tropical House Sparrows, Passer domesticus.	Levels of corticosterone (CORT), the primary avian stress hormone, tend to vary over space and time in passerines, but why this is so remains unclear. One reason may be differential need for immune defense. Typically, sustained high levels of CORT suppress immune activity in vertebrates. Thus, animals living where parasite threats are high might maintain low levels of CORT and mount weak CORT stress responses to ensure that their immune defenses are in a high state of readiness at all times. Here, we addressed this hypothesis by comparing CORT levels in two populations of House Sparrows (Passer domesticus), one from the tropics (Colon, Panama) where parasite threats are high and one from the North-temperate zone (New Jersey, USA) where they are lower. Indeed, we found that House Sparrows from Panama had lower baseline and stress-induced CORT levels than House Sparrows from New Jersey. To more directly test our hypothesis, we artificially elevated CORT (via implant) in both populations of birds, expecting that cutaneous immune activity (induced by phytohemagglutinin (PHA)) would be suppressed as it is in most vertebrates studied to date. Surprisingly, we found that CORT implants did not affect immune function in Panamanian sparrows, while immune function in (non-breeding) New Jersey sparrows was suppressed. This suggests that Panamanian House Sparrows may be immunologically insensitive to CORT, in addition to maintaining low baseline and stress-induced levels of this hormone. We propose that other animals living where disease threats are high may use CORT in a similar way.
Management and sperm production of boars under differing environmental conditions.	The management of boars to ensure good sperm production under differing environmental conditions is a major concern for pig keepers in both tropical countries and countries where there are extreme environmental changes. Such changes create stress in animals and influence the production of spermatozoa. High temperatures during hot summer months may result in lower feed consumption and create stresses that result in the inhibition of spermatogenesis. Although tropical countries do not have a problem with major variations in day length, this can cause problems such as decreased litter size and infertility in other regions of the world. Evaporative cooling systems built into boar accommodation are often used to reduce fluctuations in both temperature and humidity during the hot and humid months seen in tropical countries. The system has become popular in AI boar studs, where it is reported to reduce stress and improve feed consumption. Other management factors, such as housing comfort, social contact, mating conditions and the frequency of mating, are also very important boar management aids that assist good quality semen production; these will be covered briefly in this review. This review will consider primarily those management factors, for example, the management of temperature and humidity using evaporative cooling systems and other techniques that enable AI boar studs to maximize sperm fertility through adjustments to the environment.
Dry-reagent-based PCR as a novel tool for laboratory confirmation of clinically diagnosed Mycobacterium ulcerans-associated disease in areas in the tropics where M. ulcerans is endemic.	After tuberculosis and leprosy, Buruli ulcer (BU), caused by Mycobacterium ulcerans, is the third most common mycobacterial disease in immunocompetent humans. The disease occurs in tropical countries, with foci in West Africa, Central Africa, and the western Pacific. BU is defined as an infectious disease involving the skin and the subcutaneous adipose tissue characterized by a painless nodule, papule, plaque, or edema, evolving into a painless ulcer with undermined edges and often leading to invalidating sequelae. Due to the fundamental lack of understanding of modes of transmission, disease control in endemic countries is limited to early case detection through improved active surveillance and surgical treatment. The laboratory confirmation of BU is complicated by the absence of a diagnostic "gold standard." Therefore, misclassification and delayed diagnosis of BU may occur frequently, causing a considerable socioeconomic impact in terms of treatment costs due to prolonged hospitalization. In order to respond to the urgent need to develop reliable tools for early case detection and to overcome technical difficulties accompanying the implementation of diagnostic PCR procedures in tropical countries, a dry-reagent-based PCR formulation for the detection of M. ulcerans in diagnostic specimens has been developed at the Bernhard Nocht Institute for Tropical Medicine. Following technical and clinical validation, the assay has been successfully installed and field tested at the Kumasi Centre for Collaborative Research in Tropical Medicine, Kumasi, Ghana. Preliminary results show an excellent diagnostic sensitivity of >95%.
Rapid stepwise onset of Antarctic glaciation and deeper calcite compensation in the Pacific Ocean.	The ocean depth at which the rate of calcium carbonate input from surface waters equals the rate of dissolution is termed the calcite compensation depth. At present, this depth is approximately 4,500 m, with some variation between and within ocean basins. The calcite compensation depth is linked to ocean acidity, which is in turn linked to atmospheric carbon dioxide concentrations and hence global climate. Geological records of changes in the calcite compensation depth show a prominent deepening of more than 1 km near the Eocene/Oligocene boundary (approximately 34 million years ago) when significant permanent ice sheets first appeared on Antarctica, but the relationship between these two events is poorly understood. Here we present ocean sediment records of calcium carbonate content as well as carbon and oxygen isotopic compositions from the tropical Pacific Ocean that cover the Eocene/Oligocene boundary. We find that the deepening of the calcite compensation depth was more rapid than previously documented and occurred in two jumps of about 40,000 years each, synchronous with the stepwise onset of Antarctic ice-sheet growth. The glaciation was initiated, after climatic preconditioning, by an interval when the Earth's orbit of the Sun favoured cool summers. The changes in oxygen-isotope composition across the Eocene/Oligocene boundary are too large to be explained by Antarctic ice-sheet growth alone and must therefore also indicate contemporaneous global cooling and/or Northern Hemisphere glaciation.
Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon biodegradation in extracellular fluids and static batch cultures of selected sub-tropical white rot fungi.	Four sub-tropical white rot fungi, Trametes versicolor, Trametes pocas, Trametes cingulata and isolate DSPM95 were studied alongside the well studied white rot fungus, Phanerochaete chrysosporium, for their ability to remove polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) from culture media. Both static shallow cultures and extracellular fluids were studied using media contaminated with a defined mixture of the PAHs; fluorene, phenanthrene, anthracene, pyrene and benzo(a)anthracene. With all isolates, the total loss of the parent compound in 31 days was high for fluorene, at +60%, phenanthrene at +40% and anthracene at +42%. Biotransformation of pyrene and benzo(a)anthracene by all the isolates was low, with the highest reduction of pyrene of 15.2% and benzo(a)anthracene of 15.8% being achieved with P. chrysosporium. Disappearance of the more condensed PAHs, pyrene and benzo(a)anthracene, increased in shallow static cultures with the addition of glucose and glucose oxidase as a source of additional H2O2. The addition of Mn2+ and ABTS (2,2-azino-bis-(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid)) to culture supernatants was associated with higher levels of biotransformation. Comparison of the isolates T. versicolor, T. pocas, T. cingulata and isolate DSPM95 with P. chrysosporium showed that these strains were competitive in the reduction of the PAHs, reducing the PAHs by more or less the same magnitude. Also these sub-tropical isolates did not accumulate a lot of HPLC detectable metabolites as much as P. chrysosporium.
Discrimination efficacy of fecal pollution detection in different aquatic habitats of a high-altitude tropical country, using presumptive coliforms, Escherichia coli, and Clostridium perfringens spores.	The performance of rapid and practicable techniques that presumptively identify total coliforms (TC), fecal coliforms (FC), Escherichia coli, and Clostridium perfringens spores (CP) by testing them on a pollution gradient in differing aquatic habitats in a high-altitude tropical country was evaluated during a 12-month period. Site selection was based on high and low anthropogenic influence criteria of paired sites including six spring, six stream, and four lakeshore sites spread over central and eastern parts of Uganda. Unlike the chemophysical water quality, which was water source type dependent (i.e., spring, lake, or stream), fecal indicators were associated with the anthropogenic influence status of the respective sites. A total of 79% of the total variability, including all the determined four bacteriological and five chemophysical parameters, could be assigned to either a pollution, a habitat, or a metabolic activity component by principal-component analysis. Bacteriological indicators revealed significant correlations to the pollution component, reflecting that anthropogenic contamination gradients were followed. Discrimination sensitivity analysis revealed high ability of E. coli to differentiate between high and low levels of anthropogenic influence. CP also showed a reasonable level of discrimination, although FC and TC were found to have worse discrimination efficacy. Nonpoint influence by soil erosion could not be detected during the study period by correlation analysis, although a theoretical contamination potential existed, as investigated soils in the immediate surroundings often contained relevant concentrations of fecal indicators. The outcome of this study indicates that rapid techniques for presumptive E. coli and CP determination may be reliable for fecal pollution monitoring in high-altitude tropical developing countries such as those of Eastern Africa.
Mating patterns and gene flow in the neotropical epiphytic orchid, Laelia rubescens.	Understanding mating patterns and gene movement in plant populations occupying highly disturbed landscapes is essential for insights into their long-term survival. We used allozyme genetic markers to examine mating patterns and to directly measure pollen flow in the Central American epiphytic orchid, Laelia rubescens. Study populations were located in disturbed, seasonally dry tropical forest in Costa Rica. Every flowering individual within 15 populations and 12-18 seedlings from each maternal individual were genotyped over two reproductive seasons. Strict correlated mating by orchids produces full-sib progeny arrays from which the multilocus diploid genotype of the pollen parent can be inferred. These paternity analyses produced detailed quantitative estimates of pollen movement within and among populations of this species. Although our data illustrate that mating patterns vary spatially and temporally among trees, among pastures, and between years, overall patterns were surprisingly consistent. Thirty-four per cent of the capsules produced in both years resulted from gene flow events. Where pollen parents were identified, pollen moved mean distances of 279 m and 519 m in 1999 and 2000 respectively and a maximum documented distance of 1034 m. A substantially larger floral display in 2000 corresponded to a marked increase in pollen dispersal distances. Smaller populations, which more closely resembled those in undisturbed forest, had higher rates of gene flow than the large populations that characterize disturbed sites. We predict the occurrence of greater gene flow between low-density populations occupying undisturbed habitats.
Global warming and spread of infectious diseases]	At the end of the twentieth century, tropical infectious diseases increased despite earlier successes of eradication campaigns. As a global warming of 1.4-5.8 degrees C is anticipated to occur by 2100, mainly the vector-borne tropical diseases that are particularly sensitive to climate are expected to spread. Although biological reasons seemingly support this hypothesis, ecological and socioeconomic factors have in the past proven to be stronger driving forces for the spread of infectious disease than climate.
Association of air-conditioning with respiratory symptoms in office workers in tropical climate.	To evaluate the association of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems (HVAC) and respiratory symptoms in a tropical city, self-administered questionnaires were given to 2000 individuals working in air-conditioned office buildings and to 500 control workers in naturally ventilated buildings. Reported symptoms from the two populations were analyzed using chi-square tests, univariate and multiple logistic regressions models. Symptoms were the outcome variable and the odds ratios were adjusted by gender, age, accumulated work time, smoking habits and atopic background. There was a 79.8% response rate and there was a positive association of nasal symptoms (odds ratio, OR = 1.59, 95% confidence interval, CI = 1.11-2.28), naso-ocular symptoms (OR = 1.58, 95% CI = 1.05-2.38), persistent cough (OR = 3.04, 95% CI = 2.00-4.63) sinusitis symptoms (OR = 1.85, 95% CI = 1.27-2.71) and building-related worsening of the symptoms (OR = 4.92, 95% CI = 2.93-8.27) with working in air-conditioned buildings. In conclusion, our study suggests that artificial air-conditioning is a matter of concern for respiratory symptoms in cities with hot and humid climate.
Tropical pyomyositis in eastern Ecuador.	In the ten year period 1980-1989, 97 patients were treated for tropical pyomyositis at Hospital Vozandes Oriente in eastern Ecuador, accounting for 2.2% of surgical admissions. Operation records from an affiliated hospital in Quito showed that, high on the Andean plateau, pyomyositis accounted for only 0.1% of surgical admissions. Among the patient population of Ecuador's eastern tropical rain forest, persons who were members of an indigenous ethnic group were affected with pyomyositis twice as often as would be expected from their representation in the general population.
Abundances, depositional fluxes, and homologue patterns of polychlorinated biphenyls in dated sediment cores from the Pearl River Delta, China.	Despite the recent efforts to investigate the distribution and fate of persistent organic pollutants in the tropical and subtropical regions of Asia, very little was known about the temporal change of polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in the environmental ecosystem of China. In this study, three dated sediment cores collected from the Pearl River Delta of southern China were analyzed for a large suite of PCB congeners, from which the temporal profiles of PCB abundances, fluxes, and homologue patterns were constructed. The sedimentary inventories of total PCBs at the sampling sites ranged from 480 to 1310 ng/cm2, at the low end of the worldwide figures. Although production and use of PCBs have been banned or highly restricted in China since the early 1980s, the fluxes of total PCBs continued to increase in the Pearl River Delta sediments. There was a concurrent increase of PCB fluxes and gross domestic product per capita in the region from 1980 to 1997, and a decline of agricultural land use was evident at the same time. Apparently, large-scale land transform since the early 1980s as well as emissions from the PCB-containing electrical equipments were responsible for the sharp rise of PCB fluxes in the recent sediments. The difference in the PCB homologue patterns from 1940 to the mid-1970s was probably indicative of the different timelines of PCB usage in Macao/Hong Kong and mainland China and the differenttypes of technical PCBs commercially used. PCBs were detectable in sediments deposited well before the time frame when production of PCBs began (before 1930) and were relatively enriched in the less chlorinated homologue groups (3Cl and 4Cl PCBs), suggesting the downward mobility of lightly chlorinated PCB congeners in the sediment column.
Urine test strips: reliability of semi-quantitative findings under tropical conditions.	Semi-quantitative urinalysis with urine reagent strips (URS) for erythrocyturia (EU), leucocyturia (LU) and proteinuria (PU) was performed in Congolese and Sudanese school children with Schistosoma haematobium and/or S. mansoni infection. Quantitative urinalysis was performed on the same specimen using microscopy and a Neubauer counting chamber for EU and LU and the Coomassie blue dye-binding assay for PU. Microscopically detectable EU of more than 10 cells/microliters was found in 63% of all samples and LU of more than 20 cells/microliters was found in 60% of all samples. With the Coomassie blue method, PU of more than 150 mg/l was detected in 51% of all samples. URS gave positive results of grade 1-3 for EU in 69% of all samples, for LU in 63% of all samples and for PU in 66% of all samples. The sensitivity and specificity of URS compared with standard reference methods were as follow: EU 95% and 75%, LU 81% and 81% and PU 90% and 56%. When the results of all three test were combined, URS differentiated abnormal from normal urine specimens with a sensitivity of 94% and a specificity of 70%. Median quantitative results showed a good correlation with semiquantitative URS readings for all parameters, but there was a wide range of URS scores. We concluded that URS sensitivity detect urinary abnormalities and thus may be used as a general screening method under field conditions when more specific methods cannot be performed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dehydration from outdoor work and urinary stones in a tropical environment.	A questionnaire survey was carried out to determine the prevalence of urinary stone disease in 406 male workers in several occupations. There were 119 quarry drilling and crusher workers (outdoor, physically active), 77 quarry truck and loader drivers (outdoor, physically inactive), 92 postal deliverymen (outdoor, physically active), 75 postal clerks (indoor, physically inactive), and 43 hospital maintenance workers (indoor, physically active). The prevalence of urinary stone disease was five times higher in outdoor workers (5.2 per cent) compared to indoor workers (0.85 per cent, P less than 0.05). Contrary to expectation, no increased risk of urolithiasis was apparent in physically inactive workers. Chronic dehydration is likely to be the most important risk factor for the increased risk of urolithiasis in outdoor workers in the tropics, and should be easily prevented by increased water intake.
Development of combined imbibition and hydrothermal threshold models to simulate maize (Zea mays) and chickpea (Cicer arietinum) seed germination in variable environments.	* The ability of hydrothermal time (HTT) and virtual osmotic potential (VOP) models to describe the kinetics of maize (Zea mays) and chickpea (Cicer arietinum) seed germination under variable conditions of water potential was investigated with a view to gaining an improved understanding of the impact of on-farm seed priming on seedling establishment through simulation. * Germination and/or imbibition time courses were recorded over a wide range of constant temperatures and water potentials and simple stepwise changes in water potential. * Both models adequately described germination under constant environmental conditions, but not conditions of water potential that varied. To test the hypothesis that this inaccuracy resulted from the use of ambient water potential, a parsimonious model of seed imbibition was developed to calibrate the HTT and VOP models (IHTT and IVOP) and drive them with estimates of seed water potential. * The IHTT and IVOP models described germination during stepwise changes in water potential more accurately than the conventional models, and should contribute to improved predictions of germination time in the field.
The modulatory influence of Trypanosoma brucei on challenge infection with Haemonchus contortus in Nigerian West African Dwarf goats segregated into weak and strong responders to the nematode.	Although Nigerian West African Dwarf (WAD) goats are relatively resistant to infection with Haemonchus contortus and are also trypanotolerant, natural outbreaks of both infections are known to occur. Despite their relative resistance to H. contortus WAD goats nevertheless show variability in response phenotype and it was of interest to examine the effect of this variability on the outcome of concurrent trypanosome infection. Trypanosoma brucei infections were established in goats that were initially classified as good or poor responders to H. contortus. Thirty-nine goats were exposed to an escalating infection with H. contortus, and on the basis of their mean faecal egg counts (FEC) were allocated to high FEC (poor responders, 18 goats with the highest FEC) or low FEC (good responders, 18 goats with the lowest FEC) classes. Nine uninfected naive control goats were included to provide reference baseline values. Retrospective analysis of parasitological and pathological parameters after allocation into high/low FEC classes showed that FECs differed significantly, in both classes packed cell volume (PCV) values fell relative to naive controls, neither class lost weight and both generated marked IgG responses. All goats received anthelmintic on day 61, half of each group was infected with 50 million trypanosomes and on day 67, excepting the controls, all goats were challenged with 3000 L3 of H. contortus. Trypanosome parasitaemia was generally low, and marginally, but not significantly, higher in the low compared with high FEC class, peaking 12-16 days after exposure in both groups and then falling to below microscopically detectable levels (although still detectable by sub-inoculation into mice) by week 3. At autopsy (days 109/110), worm burdens were significantly higher in the trypanosome-infected goats from the high FEC class, relative to all other groups. Trypanosome infected goats showed a tendency (although not significant) towards higher FEC and, irrespective of their FEC class, had lower PCV values although body weight did not vary significantly. All goats challenged with H. contortus had higher antibody levels than naive controls, but neither trypanosome infection nor FEC class affected the magnitude of responses. These results confirm that WAD goats comprise a range of response phenotypes to initial H. contortus infection and that trypanotolerance is a key trait of this breed. Although immunity to nematode infection develops even in poor responders, these animals harbour higher nematode burdens during concurrent infection with T. brucei.
Explosive radiation of Malpighiales supports a mid-cretaceous origin of modern tropical rain forests.	Fossil data have been interpreted as indicating that Late Cretaceous tropical forests were open and dry adapted and that modern closed-canopy rain forest did not originate until after the Cretaceous-Tertiary (K/T) boundary. However, some mid-Cretaceous leaf floras have been interpreted as rain forest. Molecular divergence-time estimates within the clade Malpighiales, which constitute a large percentage of species in the shaded, shrub, and small tree layer in tropical rain forests worldwide, provide new tests of these hypotheses. We estimate that all 28 major lineages (i.e., traditionally recognized families) within this clade originated in tropical rain forest well before the Tertiary, mostly during the Albian and Cenomanian (112-94 Ma). Their rapid rise in the mid-Cretaceous may have resulted from the origin of adaptations to survive and reproduce under a closed forest canopy. This pattern may also be paralleled by other similarly diverse lineages and supports fossil indications that closed-canopy tropical rain forests existed well before the K/T boundary. This case illustrates that dated phylogenies can provide an important new source of evidence bearing on the timing of major environmental changes, which may be especially useful when fossil evidence is limited or controversial.
Serum haemolytic complement levels in German Dahlem Red chickens are affected by three major genes (naked neck, dwarf, frizzled) of tropical interest.	German Dahlem Red chickens with three different major genes of tropical interest: Nana- (naked neck), Ff- (frizzled) and dw- (dwarf), respectively, were tested for serum haemolytic complement, which is essential in innate host defence against infectious agents. Eight different combinations of genes for body size and feather coverage were evaluated. Significant differences both for both the calcium-dependent (classical, CPW) and the calcium-independent (alternative, APW) complement titres were found between the phenotypes. Phenotype nanaffDw- showed the highest complement status. The frizzled (Ff-) gene had a negative influence on APW titres, whereas the dwarf (dw-) gene had a negative influence on CPW titres. The naked neck (Nana-) gene had various influences on the haemolytic complement status. All tested hens had MHC (B) 21 haplotypes, whereas the gene for dwarfism appeared to be linked with the B19 haplotype. It was concluded that introducing major genes (Nana-, dw-, Ff-) to conquer environmental stress in hot climates can have a negative impact on certain aspects of the innate immunity of poultry.
Podoconiosis: endemic nonfilarial elephantiasis.	Podoconiosis is a noncommunicable disease producing lymphoedema of the lower limbs; it affects predominantly barefoot agricultural workers in the tropics. Why should this be of interest to a journal of infectious disease? For many years this disease has not been widely recognized as distinct from lymphatic filariasis and yet it may affect about 10% of populations in volcanic tropical highlands. It produces considerable morbidity associated with limb lymphoedema, impacting on economically productive age groups. As it does not fall into the briefs of infectious or chronic disease initiatives of the World Health Organization, it has been difficult to attract funds for research and for the development of community management approaches. The aim of this review is to describe details of the clinical features, management, epidemiological significance and evidence for the underlying aetiology of this poorly understood condition.
Biomonitoring of air pollution in a seasonally dry tropical suburban area using wheat transplants.	Air pollution has been identified as a serious problem throughout the world which causes tremendous loss to the crops by affecting plant growth and yield. Earlier, air pollution was restricted to urban and industrial regions. Over the last few decades, however, it has become evident that pollutants can be transported over long distances and hence their impact may be felt widely over rural areas. The present study was conducted to evaluate the impact of urban air pollution on suburban agriculture with respect to the changes in photosynthetic rate, stomatal conductance, water-use efficiency, plant height, numbers of tillers, leaves, ears and seeds, chlorophyll, carotenoid, protein, phenol, ascorbic acid, nitrogen and sulphate-sulphur contents and seed weight of pot-grown wheat plants (Triticum aestivum var. HUW 468) kept at different sites around Varanasi city receiving varying levels of pollution load. Mean concentrations of SO2, NO2 and O3 were monitored. The study clearly showed that plants are negatively affected by the ambient levels of air pollutants. Reduction in various parameters directly corresponded with the air pollution levels at different sites.
Application of biological measures for stream integrity assessment in south-east Brazil.	The sensitivity of eleven metrics using macroinvertebrate assemblages were evaluated in an environmental gradient in a tropical river in south-east Brazil. Eight sites were sampled in an altitudinal range of 160-650 m.a.s.l. during 1999 (April and August) and 2000 (February). Four substrates were sampled at each site: riffle litter, pool litter, stony substrates and sediment. Correspondence Analysis indicated that assemblages were primarily more influenced by physical changes (like deforestation and erosion processes) than the water chemistry. The sensitivity of each metric was evaluated through the application of box-and-whisker plot method by its power to assess impairment (metrics should be able to discriminate reference sites from impaired sites) and natural variability (metrics should not discriminate two reference sites). Metrics that failed in at least one of the above premises were not considered as sensitive. In this study, the most sensitive metrics were Shannon index, BMWP-ASPT, %_EPT, and relative abundance of EPT to Chironomidae.
Ontogenetic transition of leaf physiology and anatomy from seedlings to mature trees of a rain forest pioneer tree, Macaranga gigantea.	In a field study, we compared anatomy and diurnal gas exchange and chlorophyll fluorescence in sunlit mature leaves of Macaranga gigantea (Reichb. f. and Zoll.) Muell. seedlings, saplings, an adult tree and suckers originating from stumps. We tested the hypothesis that the pattern of resource use shifts across various life stages with ontogenetic changes in leaf anatomy and physiology. Among leaves of different developmental stages, seedling leaves were the smallest and thinnest, whereas adult tree leaves were the largest and thickest, and the air space within the lamina was largest in seedling leaves and smallest in adult tree leaves. Photosynthetic nitrogen-use efficiency (PNUE) was higher in seedling and sapling leaves than in adult tree leaves. Mean PNUE in seedling leaves was 1.6 times that in adult tree leaves. Nevertheless, among the developmental stages, net photosynthetic rate (Pn) per unit leaf area was lowest in seedling leaves because they have the lowest nitrogen (N) content per unit leaf area. In situ water vapor stomatal conductance (g(s) at a given leaf-to-air vapor pressure deficit was highest in sapling leaves, suggesting that they have a high hydraulic efficiency per unit leaf area. Among developmental stages, intrinsic water-use efficiency (Pn/g(s)) and photochemical capacity of photosystem II were lowest in seedling leaves. Sapling leaves had the highest N concentration and Pn per unit dry mass and the highest g(s), indicating that the gradual transition from the seedling stage to the sapling stage is accompanied by an accumulation of N in plant bodies and the development of hydraulic systems to counteract unfavorable environmental stresses. The properties of adult tree leaves (low PNUE, high carbon:N ratio, small and dense cells and thick lamina) indicate that, during the transition from the sapling stage to the adult tree stage, the priority of resource use in leaves gradually shifts from enhancement of photosynthetic performance to defense against herbivory and mechanical damage. Leaf morphology and physiology were coordinated with the differences in resource use at each life stage.
Fog drip and its relation to groundwater in the tropical seasonal rain forest of Xishuangbanna, Southwest China: a preliminary study.	Rain, fog drip, shallow soil water and groundwater were collected for two years (2002-2003) for stable isotopic analysis, at a tropical seasonal rain forest site in Xshuangbanna, Southwest China. The fog drip water ranged from -30 to +27 per thousand in deltaD and -6.2 to +1.9 per thousand in delta(18)O, conforms to the equation deltaD=7.64delta(18)O+14.32, and was thought to contain water that has been evaporated and recycled terrestrial meteoric water. The rain was isotopically more depleted, and ranged from -94 to -45 per thousand in deltaD, and -13.2 to -6.8 per thousand in delta(18)O. The shallow soil water had a composition usually between those of the rain and fog drip, and was assumed to be a mixture of the two waters. However, the soil water collected in dry season appeared to contain more fog drip water than that collected in rainy season. The groundwater in both seasons had an isotopic composition similar to rainwater, suggesting that fog drip water does not play a significant role as a source of recharge for the groundwater. This groundwater was thought to be recharged solely by rainwater.
Insolation-driven changes in atmospheric circulation over the past 116,000 years in subtropical Brazil.	During the last glacial period, large millennial-scale temperature oscillations--the 'Dansgaard/Oeschger' cycles--were the primary climate signal in Northern Hemisphere climate archives from the high latitudes to the tropics. But whether the influence of these abrupt climate changes extended to the tropical and subtropical Southern Hemisphere, where changes in insolation are thought to be the main direct forcing of climate, has remained unclear. Here we present a high-resolution oxygen isotope record of a U/Th-dated stalagmite from subtropical southern Brazil, covering the past 116,200 years. The oxygen isotope signature varies with shifts in the source region and amount of rainfall in the area, and hence records changes in atmospheric circulation and convective intensity over South America. We find that these variations in rainfall source and amount are primarily driven by summer solar radiation, which is controlled by the Earth's precessional cycle. The Dansgaard/Oeschger cycles can be detected in our record and therefore we confirm that they also affect the tropical hydrological cycle, but that in southern subtropical Brazil, millennial-scale climate changes are not as dominant as they are in the Northern Hemisphere.
Haemolytic complement activity and humoral immune responses to sheep red blood cells in indigenous chickens and in eight German Dahlem Red chicken lines with different combinations of major genes (dwarf, naked neck and frizzled) of tropical interest.	A total of 376 chickens from different ecotypes were immunized with the non-pathogenic multi-determinant antigen sheep red blood cells (SRBC). The ecotypes included indigenous chickens from various locations in Tanzania (n=102), India (n=86) and Bolivia (n=89). In addition, eight German Dahlem Red (GDR) chicken lines with different major genes (dwarf, naked neck and frizzled) of tropical interest were also immunized with SRBC. Immune competence of the breeds was assessed by measuring complement haemolytic activity, both from the classical calcium-dependent complement pathway (CPW) and alternative calcium-independent complement pathway (APW), alongside IgTotal, IgG and IgM antibody responses to SRBC at 7 days post immunization. Large variations in complement activity and antibody responses to SRBC were observed within and between the indigenous breeds. Many indigenous chickens, especially from Bolivia, showed decreased complement activity (APW) following immunization with SRBC. Breeds from India showed the highest CPW activity and humoral (especially IgM) responses to SRBC, suggesting high immune competence. In contrast, Bolivian chickens were characterized by low CPW activity, low APW activity and low antibody levels to SRBC suggesting an overall low immune competence. In the GDR chickens, characterized by high CPW activity and high IgG antibody responses to SRBC, the major genes for naked neck, frizzling and dwarfism had no significant effect on the antibody responses and complement activity to SRBC.
Nitrogen nutrition and isotopic discrimination in tropical ectomycorrhizal fungi.	It is known that many ectomycorrhizal (EcM) fungi are able to utilise complex organic sources of nitrogen. Two hypotheses were tested using isolates of tropical EcM fungi grown in vitro: (i) EcM fungi isolated from mineral soils of tropical rain forests are less able to utilise organic sources of nitrogen than mineral sources; and (ii) nitrogen isotope discrimination patterns follow those of the nitrogen source utilised. Pisolithus albus and Tomentella sp. represented tropical EcM fungi and they were grown along with Thelephora terrestris. All three species were able to utilise bovine serum albumen as a nitrogen source and P. albus produced the greatest biomass on this source of nitrogen. Nitrate was generally less well utilised than ammonium although all three species were able to grow on this nitrogen source. The nitrogen source which led to the greatest biomass also led to the highest fungal nitrogen concentration in P. albus and Tomentella sp., but not T. terrestris. All three species discriminated against (15)N when grown on BSA and NO(3) but there were interspecific differences in isotope discrimination when grown on NH(4). From a limited number of isolates, it was found that EcM fungi from tropical soils utilise protein nitrogen as well as mineral nitrogen and there can be considerable nitrogen isotope discrimination during the utilisation of all these nitrogen sources.
Stability of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 antibodies in whole blood dried on filter paper and stored under various tropical conditions in Kinshasa, Zaire.	The use of whole-blood spots on filter paper for the detection of antibody to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) was evaluated during a 20-week period under a variety of storage environments simulating the harsh tropical field conditions in Kinshasa, Zaire. During the first 6 weeks of storage, all replicates of high- and low-titer HIV-1-positive reference samples remained positive by enzyme immunoassay and Western blotting (immunoblotting), and all replicates of HIV-1-negative samples remained negative under all storage conditions. However, hot and humid storage conditions for up to 20 weeks caused a progressive decline in enzyme immunoassay optical density ratio values, which was particularly noticeable in samples with a low HIV-1 antibody titer. Harsh tropical operational conditions did not cause any repeatedly false-positive results during the 20-week storage period. The use of gas-impermeable bags with desiccant for the storage of blood spots on filter paper improved the stability of HIV-1 antibody detection over time and is recommended for the storage of whole-blood spots on filter paper in harsh tropical field settings.
The climatic factors influencing the occurrence of dengue hemorrhagic fever in Thailand.	The aim of this study was to determine the independent effects of climatic factors: rainfall, temperature and relative humidity, on the occurrence of dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) in Thailand after adjustment for cyclical pattern. Data regarding monthly DHF reported cases by province, monthly rainfall, rain-days, average daily maximum temperature, average daily minimum temperature and average relative humidity, and mid-year province population from 1978 to 1997 (240 months) in 73 provinces were collected from various governmental departments. The general equation: Incidence of DHF = constant + trends + cyclic effects + climatic factors + noise was used as the statistical model. Out of 73 provinces examined, an increase in temperature was associated with a rise in the incidence of DHF in 9 provinces, whereas increased rainfall was associated with a decreased incidence of DHF in 7 provinces. Analysis by region shows that DHF incidence was negatively associated with extra rainfall in the southern region, but was positively associated with elevated temperatures in the central and northern regions. Variability in incidence was explained mostly (14.7% to 75.3%) by trend and cyclic change and much less (0.2% to 3.6%) by independent climatic factors.
The serum uric acid and related cardiovascular risk factors in south Taiwan.	Hyperuricemia has been shown to be related to cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Uric acid is a metabolic product synthesized from nucleic acids, amino acids and the Krebs cycle, reflecting a multiple metabolic associations in humans. The relation between uric acid and various cardiovascular metabolic parameters in Asians has rarely been reported on. In this study, we report the relationship between uric acid and various cardiovascular risk factors in 1,027 healthy Taiwanese adults living in Alien, an agricultural town in subtropical South Taiwan. Serum uric acid levels increased in proportion to age in women, but not in men. There were age and gender-specific correlations between uric acid and various cardiovascular metabolic parameters. Triglycerides and creatinine levels were two independent factors predicting serum uric acid levels in men, while only creatinine predicted uric acid levels in women of all age groups. Processes that influence the metabolism of uric acid and its association with other metabolic parameters differs by gender and age.
Pregnancy rate following GnRH + PGF 2alpha treatment of low body condition, anestrous Bos taurus by Bos indicus crossbred cows during the summer months in a tropical environment.	Anestrous and lactating Bos taurus by Bos indicus crossbred cows with minimum body condition were studied to determine the efficacy of GnRH+PGF 2alpha combinations for induction of estrus and/or ovulation on pregnancy rate during the months of the year when temperatures are greater. On day 0 (start of treatment), cows were assigned randomly to either treatment or control groups. Treated cows (n = 74) received i.m. 200 microg of GnRH on day 0 and 150 microg of PGF 2alpha 7 days later (day 7). On day 7, treated cows were equally distributed to each of three protocols: (1) Select Synch (n = 25), artificial insemination (AI) 12 h after exhibiting estrus from day 7 (PGF 2alpha injection) until day 12; (2) Ovsynch (n = 24), 200 microg of GnRH at 48 h after PGF 2alpha (day 9) + timed-AI (TAI) 16-20 h later; (3) CO-Synch (n = 25), 200 microg of GnRH + TAI at 48 h after PGF 2alpha (day 9). Control cows (n = 25) received no treatment + AI 12 h after exhibiting estrus from days 0 to 12. Detection of estrus was performed daily during the early morning and evening hours from days 0 to 7 in all the cows, and from days 7 to 12 in the cows treated with Select Synch and in the control group, with the aid of a sterilized bull. Palpation per rectum and transrectal ultrasonography were used on days -30, -20, -10 and 0 to confirm anestrus (absence of CL and no signs of estrus at each evaluation) but with ovarian follicles > or = 10 mm on day 0. Pregnancy rate was 0% for Select Synch, 21% for Ovsynch and 28% for CO-Synch (P < 0.05). In conclusion, the Ovsynch and CO-Synch protocols resulted in greater pregnancy rates compared with the Select Synch protocol in Bos taurus/Bos indicus cows with minimum body condition that were anestrous and lactating during the summer months in a tropical environment.
Clinical microbiological aspects of epileptic seizures in the tropical countries with specific focus on Nigeria.	Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder; however, in Nigeria and other tropical regions, the causes of epileptic seizures differ greatly in etiology. This paper is an attempt to highlight some possible microbiological aspects of epileptic seizures. A literature review was carried out to identify the extent to which microbial infections were involved in the elicitation of epileptic seizures. Data were collected from several clinics in the community and hospitals in Nigeria and correlated with the evidence from the literature review. It was found that different microbial agents including viral, bacterial, protozoa, and fungal agents were involved in several aspects of epileptic seizures. Malaria was found to cause more than 88% of childhood epileptic seizures and 12% of adult seizures. Generalized tonic-clonic seizures occurred in more than 40% of adult patients. Partial seizures were uncommon. Cases of epileptic seizures associated with bacteria (e.g., brucellosis), viral, fungal, and protozoa infections were frequently reported. Malaria, tapeworm, and cysticercosis were some of the common infectious causes of epilepsy; however, in some cases, the cause remained unknown. From these findings, it was evident that microbiological aspects of epilepsies are possible research areas that might be developed. It is believed that the unraveling of the various microbiological factors in epileptic seizures would have important implications for understanding the underlying neurobiology, evaluating treatment strategies, and perhaps planning health-care resources for the affected. It will also help to improve the prognostic factors in initial seizure symptomatic etiology and presence of any structural cerebral abnormalities.
Illustrated keys to the mosquitoes of Thailand I. Background; geographic distribution; lists of genera, subgenera, and species; and a key to the genera.	This is the first of a series of six sections that will cover 436 species of mosquitoes currently known to occur in Thailand. In this section we provide information on the background, geographic distribution, bionomics, lists of genera, subgenera, and specie of mosquitoes that occur in Thailand, and a key to the genera. The sections, listed below will be published as separate supplements in following issues of this journal: II. Key to the Culex; III. Key to the Aedeomyia, Ficalbia, Mimomyia, Hodgesia, Coquillettidia, Mansonia, and Uranotaenia. The additional 3 supplements consisting of the Key to the Tribe Aedini; Key to the Anopheles; and the Keys to the Armigeres, Heizmannia, Orthopodomyia, Malaya, Topomyia, Tripteroides, and Toxorhynchites will be published as they are completed. At the conclusion of this project, one large supplement to the Southeast Asian Journal of Tropical Medicine and Public Health will be produced that includes all of these keys in a single document.
Candida riodocensis and Candida cellae, two new yeast species from the Starmerella clade associated with solitary bees in the Atlantic rain forest of Brazil.	Two new ascomycetous yeast species belonging to the Starmerella clade were discovered in nests of two solitary bee species in the Atlantic rain forest of Brazil. Candida riodocensis was isolated from pollen-nectar provisions, larvae and fecal pellets of nests of Megachile sp., and Candida cellae was found in pollen-nectar provisions of Centris tarsata. Analysis of the sequences of the D1/D2 large-subunit ribosomal DNA showed that C. riodocensis is phylogenetically related to C. batistae, and the closest relative of C. cellae is C. etchellsii. The type strains are C. riodocensis UFMG-MG02 (=CBS 10087(T) = NRRL Y-27859(T)) and C. cellae UFMG-PC04 (=CBS 10086(T) = NRRL Y-27860(T)).
Fatty acid composition of the tropical lichen Teloschistes flavicans and its cultivated symbionts.	Fatty acid components, in both the free and combined form of the intact tropical lichen Teloschistes flavicans, and its isolated photobiont and mycobiont, were analyzed by GC-MS of derived methyl esters. Its rDNA analysis confirmed that the isolated cultured symbionts belong to the genera Trebouxia and Teloschistes, respectively. The fatty acid composition of the lichen did not correspond to those found in the isolated symbionts, suggesting that the fatty acid metabolism is markedly influenced by the symbiosis. Differences in the fatty acid composition in the lichen were observed during the summer (27 degrees C), when the main fatty acids were saturated and in the winter (22 degrees C) when an increase of unsaturated fatty acids occurred. Similar differences of composition were also observed for the cultured mycobiont at different temperatures. The increase in the unsaturation level at low temperatures would maintain the membrane fluidity. Our results are the first on the fatty acids of a tropical lichen and suggest that it is sensitive to small temperature variations, which influences its saturated and unsaturated fatty acid composition.
Seasonal variations in photosynthesis of Picea morrisonicola growing in the subalpine region of subtropical Taiwan.	From January 1999 to May 2001, we investigated seasonal variations in the photosynthetic capacity of Taiwan spruce (Picea morrisonicola Hay.) growing in the subalpine region of subtropical Taiwan (23 degrees 29' N, 120 degrees 53' E, 2600 m a.s.l.). Photosynthetic capacity (near light-saturated net photosynthetic rate, Pnsat, chlorophyll fluorescence (Fv/Fm) and soluble protein concentration of needles all increased from mid or late spring to early winter. Even when minimum air temperature of the measuring day dropped to near 0 degrees C, Pnsat remained at about 20% of the highest value observed in winter. There was a curvilinear relationship between Fv/Fm and the minimum or mean air temperature of the measuring day. The increase in Fv/Fm with temperature was slowed when the daily mean air temperature was above 7 degrees C, or the minimum air temperature was above 3 degrees C; however, when air temperatures dropped below these values, Fv/Fm varied sharply. Seasonal variations in Pnsat paralleled those in Fv/Fm and needle soluble protein concentration. In early or mid spring when air temperature and Fv/Fm increased, Pnsat and soluble protein concentration remained low. Multiple regression analysis showed that seasonal variations in Pnsat were affected by Fv/Fm, air temperature and needle soluble protein concentration, and the multiple regression equation could be used to estimate Pnsat in different seasons. We conclude that the decrease in photosynthetic capacity of Taiwan spruce in winter and its subsequent recovery in spring were mainly caused by photoinhibition and its reversal, and changes in needle soluble protein concentration. Another possible explanation for the delayed recovery of photosynthetic capacity in spring may be associated with the slow increase in needle soluble protein concentration.
Photosynthetic acclimation to light changes in tropical monsoon forest woody species differing in adult stature.	We studied morphological and physiological leaf and whole-plant features of seedlings of six late-successional woody species common in the Xishuangbanna lowland rain forest in southwest China. Study species differed in adult stature and shade tolerance and included the shrubs Lasianthus attenuatus Jack and Lasianthus hookeri C.B. Clarke ex Hook. f.; the sub-canopy species Barringtonia macrostachya (Jack) Kurz and Linociera insignis C.B. Clarke; the canopy tree Pometia tomentosa (Blume) Teijsm. & Binn.; and the emergent species Shorea chinensis (Wang Hsie) H. Zhu. After 1 year of growth in low light (4.5% full sun), seedlings were transferred to high light (24.5% full sun) to investigate acclimation responses of existing leaves to forest gap opening and to determine whether seedling capacity for acclimation is a limiting factor in its natural regeneration. Leaves of the shrub species are shade-adapted, as indicated by their low photosynthetic capacity, efficiency in using sunflecks, low stomatal density, low Chl a/b ratio and high spongy/palisade mesophyll ratio. The shrub species utilized sunflecks efficiently because they had a short photosynthetic induction time and low induction loss. In all species, transfer of seedlings to high light resulted in a substantial initial reduction in the dark-adapted quantum yield of photosystem II (variable chlorophyll fluorescence/maximum chlorophyll fluorescence; Fv/Fm) at midday. Predawn Fv/Fm of the taller species did not change greatly, but predawn Fv/Fm of the shrub species decreased significantly without complete recovery within 25 days of transfer to high light, indicating chronic photoinhibition and damage to the previously shade-adapted leaves. Maximum net photosynthetic rate and dark respiration of the four taller species increased considerably after transfer to high light, but not in the shrub species. Similar trends were observed for the number of newly formed leaves and relative height growth rate. We conclude that the shrubs L. hookeri and L. attenuatus have limited potential for developmental and physiological acclimation to high light, which explains their absence from forest gaps. Compared with the shrub species, the taller tree species, which are more likely to experience high light during their life span, showed a greater potential for light acclimation. Physiological differences among the four tree species were not consistent with differences in adult stature.
Assessing water quality in a tropical lake using biomarkers in zebrafish embryos: developmental toxicity and stress protein responses.	In order to achieve a more substantial appraisal of lake water quality, the assessment must not be based only on chemical measurements and analyses of the water itself, but even more so on the impact of existing conditions on aquatic biota. This is possible with the use of biotests or biomarkers, e.g. investigations of the developmental parameters (96-h embryotoxicity evaluate) or of the induction of heat shock proteins (proteotoxicity evaluate). To evaluate the suitability of these tests for environmental screening, fertilized zebrafish eggs were exposed to water samples collected from five sites of varying levels of stress from Laguna Lake, Philippines. Reconstituted water was used as laboratory control while water samples from a highly polluted freshwater source was used as positive control. Developmental parameters were noted and described within 48 and 96 h of exposure. Dilution experiments of the positive control were also done to further assess and compare toxicity potentials of Laguna Lake waters with those originating from a polluted freshwater. After the 96-h exposure, the levels of stress proteins (hsp 70) were determined in embryos from all exposure groups. Results showed 100% mortality in embryos exposed to undiluted positive control (PC) within only 12 h. Increasing dilution levels, however, resulted in lower mortality and lower abnormality rates. No detectable developmental differences were noted among embryos exposed to either the laboratory control or Laguna Lake waters at the end of 96 h, regardless of the source. Very high survival rates and high hatching success rates were observed in embryos exposed to lake waters as well as laboratory control, and the data did not differ significantly among the groups. Likewise, no significant malformations were noted among all developing embryos throughout the exposure period. However, the levels of heat shock proteins in the two sites located closest to Manila, the Philippine capital (Northern West Bay and Central West Bay), showed a pronounced elevation relative to the control, indicating that these stress proteins protect the embryos from the detrimental effects of pollutants in the water. Based on the 96-h early life stage (ELS) test, the water quality of the lake is good for fishery propagation despite the current levels of pollutants in the water. This finding is in accordance with the Class C status (i.e. suitable for fish growth and propagation) as given to the lake by the local environmental agency. On the other hand, data on proteotoxicity showed that the fish are under stress, presumably deriving from pollutants. This calls for a continuous monitoring and improvement of the lake water. The present study indicates that the two biomarker methods are very easy to use, practical, rapid, and sensitive for assessing water quality in a tropical lake and recommends for their incorporation into the future monitoring program of Laguna Lake.
Factors influencing aerosol characteristics over urban environment.	Atmospheric aerosols are an important contributing factor to turbidity in urban areas besides having impact on health. Aerosol characteristics show a high degree of variability in space and time as nthropogenic share of total aerosol loading is quite substantial and is essential to monitor the aerosol features over long time scales. In the present study extensive observations of columnar aerosol optical depth (AOD), total columnar ozone (TCO) and precipitable water content (PWC) have been carried over a tropical urban city of Hyderabad, India. Significant variations of AOD have been observed during course of the day with low values of AOD during morning and evening hours and high values during afternoon hours. Spectral variation of AOD exhibits high AOD at smaller wavelengths and vice versa except a slight enhancement in AOD at 500 nm. Anomalies in AOD, particulate matter and black carbon concentrations have been observed during May, 2003. Back trajectory analysis of air mass during these episodes suggested variation in air mass trajectories. Analysis of the results suggests that air trajectories from land region north of study area cause high loading of atmospheric aerosols. The results are discussed in the paper.
Persistence and differential survival of fecal indicator bacteria in subtropical waters and sediments.	Fecal coliforms and enterococci are indicator organisms used worldwide to monitor water quality. These bacteria are used in microbial source tracking (MST) studies, which attempt to assess the contribution of various host species to fecal pollution in water. Ideally, all strains of a given indicator organism (IO) would experience equal persistence (maintenance of culturable populations) in water; however, some strains may have comparatively extended persistence outside the host, while others may persist very poorly in environmental waters. Assessment of the relative contribution of host species to fecal pollution would be confounded by differential persistence of strains. Here, freshwater and saltwater mesocosms, including sediments, were inoculated with dog feces, sewage, or contaminated soil and were incubated under conditions that included natural stressors such as microbial predators, radiation, and temperature fluctuations. Persistence of IOs was measured by decay rates (change in culturable counts over time). Decay rates were influenced by IO, inoculum, water type, sediment versus water column location, and Escherichia coli strain. Fecal coliform decay rates were significantly lower than those of enterococci in freshwater but were not significantly different in saltwater. IO persistence according to mesocosm treatment followed the trend: contaminated soil > wastewater > dog feces. E. coli ribotyping demonstrated that certain strains were more persistent than others in freshwater mesocosms, and the distribution of ribotypes sampled from mesocosm waters was dissimilar from the distribution in fecal material. These results have implications for the accuracy of MST methods, modeling of microbial populations in water, and efficacy of regulatory standards for protection of water quality.
A survey of pig production systems in the rain forest of the Pacific coast Colombia.	A questionnaire-based survey was conducted in small-scale pig farms in the rain forest of the Colombian Pacific coast in order to study aspects of reproduction, nutrition and productivity. A total of 124 farmers was interviewed. They owned, on average, 13.6 pigs, including 2.3 sows, mainly of the Zungo breed. Pigs are reared in extensive systems and are allowed to wander freely in search of food. The sows produce, on average, 9.6 piglets/litter but, owing to poor sanitary conditions, 1.5 are born dead and only 6.3 are weaned alive. Two-thirds of the sows have five litters or more and the boars are also kept for a long time. This leads to high consanguinity rates within the herd and low productivity. Diets are based on maize, banana, tubers (taro, cassava) and fruits (peach palm, among others), and are rich in energy but poor in protein and minerals. The lack of protein and mineral sources appears to be the main limiting factor of these extensive production systems. Tree forages could partially solve the problem but are used by only 2% of the farmers. It is concluded that decreasing inbreeding, better piglet management and provision of balanced diets are areas that require immediate improvement.
Use of two types of estradiol-releasing skin patches for menopausal patients in a tropical climate.	As part of a program to evaluate nonoral routes for delivery of estrogen replacement therapy at the National University Hospital, Singapore, we assessed two different 50 micrograms estradiol patches. The first study (patch A) was terminated because of a high rate of skin reactions. Tests of the components of this patch identified the alcohol carrier as the cause of these reactions when combined with an occlusive membrane in the tropical Singapore climate. A subsequent clinical trial with 21 female subjects was undertaken with a different 50 micrograms estradiol patch (patch B). Twenty patients completed the 6-month study. Patch B was as effective as patch A, caused fewer skin reactions, and adhered better.
Otitis externa in tropical diving and swimming]	Studies of the microflora of the external auditory canal should help to clarify the frequent acute diffuse external otitis which may occur in recreational scuba-divers and swimmers during a stay in the tropics. We found that colonisation with facultatively pathogenic microorganisms increased after exposure. Apart from this contamination, indirect factors such as the tropical climate and intensive exposure to water may play an important role in the aetiology of the external otitis. For individual preventive measures, topical application of paraffin-oil before, and an aqueous solution of alcohol and acetic acid after exposure are recommended.
Seasonal variation in the chemical composition of two tropical seaweeds.	The chemical composition of red seaweed Gracilaria cervicornis and brown seaweed Sargassum vulgare from Brazil was investigated. In this study, the relationship between the nutritive components of each species and the environment was established. Protein content varied from 23.05+/-3.04% to 15.97+/-3.04%. The highest value was found in G. cervicornis. The protein levels were positively correlated with nitrogen content and negatively with water temperature and salinity. Carbohydrate contents of both species varied significantly (p<0.01) and the values observed were superior to others chemical constituents. Contrary to carbohydrates, the lipid concentrations were the lowest recorded chemical component and varied slightly between the two species. Ash content was greater in S. vulgare (14.20+/-3.86) than in G. cervicornis (7.74+/-1.15). In general the variation in chemical composition was related to environment.
Relationship between density and ultrasonic velocity in Brazilian tropical woods.	In this study, the effect of density on the velocity of an ultrasonic wave in wood is investigated. The aim of the present study was to analyze the influence of density on the longitudinal velocity of an ultrasonic wave, propagated in the longitudinal direction. Experiments were conducted on 5cm x 5cm x 5cm wood specimens selected from the following species: pinus caribea (Pinus caribea var. caribea), eucalyptus citriodora (Eucalyptus citriodora), eucalyptus grandis (Eucalyptus grandis), cupiúba (Goupia glabra) and jatobá (Hymenaea sp.). The relationship between density and velocity was analyzed in two different manners: between and within species. The results obtained between species indicated that ultrasonic velocity tends to increase with increasing density. The results obtained within species also showed an increasing trend in ultrasonic velocity as density increased, but the relationship was not as significant as it was for between species.
Fractionation and extractability of sulfur, iron and trace elements in sulfidic sediments.	This study describes iron and sulfur fractionation, and the related extractability of selected trace elements (As, Cd, Cr, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn) in estuarine sediments. The sediments were sulfidic, with moderately high concentrations of pore-water sulfide (200-600 micromol l(-1)) and acid-volatile sulfide (AVS; 9.9-129 micromol g(-1)). Pyrite-S concentrations increased with depth, with 63-251 micromol g(-1) at site W1 and 312-669 micromol g(-1) at site W2. The degree of sulfidisation was generally high (>80%), indicating that Fe may be limiting pyrite accumulation. The ratios of AVS to pyrite-S increased with sediment depth, as expected for the pyritisation of solid-phase AVS. Cadmium, Pb and Zn extractability in 1M HCl indicated that these elements are not significantly sequestered during pyritisation, whereas sequestration may be important for As, Cu and possibly Ni. Extractability trends for Cr suggest that diagenesis in sulfidic sediments may enhance Cr reactivity. Overall, replacement of AVS by pyrite during diagenesis may enhance the reactivity of Cd, Cr, Pb and Zn, whereas As, Cu and possibly Ni may be rendered less reactive.
Heavy metal sequential extraction methods--a modification for tropical soils.	Sequential extractions of metals can be useful to study metal distributions in various soil fractions. Although several sequential extraction procedures have been suggested in the literature, most were developed for temperate soils and may not be suitable for tropical soils with high contents of Mn and Fe oxides. The objective of this study was to develop a sequential fractionation procedure for Cu and Zn in tropical soils. Extractions were performed on surface (0-20 cm) samples of ten representative soils of Sao Paulo State, Brazil. Chemically reactive Mn forms were satisfactorily assessed by the new modified procedure. Amorphous and crystalline Fe oxides were more selectively extracted in a new two-step extraction. Soil-born Zn and Cu were primarily associated with recalcitrant soil fractions. The proposed procedure provided more detailed information on metal distribution in tropical soils and better characterization of the various components of the soil matrix. The new procedure is expected to be an important tool for predicting the potential effects of environmental changes and land application of metals on the redistribution of chemical forms of metals in tropical soils.
Relationships among ecologically important dimensions of plant trait variation in seven neotropical forests.	When ecologically important plant traits are correlated they may be said to constitute an ecological 'strategy' dimension. Through identifying these dimensions and understanding their inter-relationships we gain insight into why particular trait combinations are favoured over others and into the implications of trait differences among species. Here we investigated relationships among several traits, and thus the strategy dimensions they represented, across 2134 woody species from seven Neotropical forests.
Ant patchiness: a spatially quantitative test in coffee agroecosystems.	Arboreal ants form patchy spatial patterns in tropical agroforest canopies. Such patchy distributions more likely occur in disturbed habitats associated with lower ant diversity and resource availability than in forests. Yet, few studies have quantitatively examined these patchy patterns to statistically test if ants are non-randomly distributed or at what scale. Coffee agroecosystems form a gradient of management intensification along which vegetative complexity and ant diversity decline. Using field studies and a spatially explicit randomization model, I investigated ant patchiness in coffee agroecosystems in Chiapas, Mexico varying in management intensity to examine if: (1) coffee intensification affects occurrence of numerically dominant ants, (2) numerical dominants form statistically distinguishable single-species patches in coffee plants, (3) shade trees play a role in patch location, and (4) patch formation or size varies with management intensity. Coffee intensification correlated with lower occurrence frequency of numerically dominant species generally and of one of four taxa examined. All dominant ant species formed patches but only Azteca instabilis was patchy around shade trees. Ant patchiness did vary somewhat with spatial scale and with strata (within the coffee layer vs around shade trees). Patchiness, however, did not vary with management intensity. These results provide quantitative evidence that numerically dominant ants are patchy within the coffee layer at different scales and that shade tree location, but not coffee management intensity, may play a role in the formation of patchy distributions.
A galloylated cyanogenic glycoside from the Australian endemic rainforest tree Elaeocarpus sericopetalus (Elaeocarpaceae).	A cyanogenic glycoside - 6'-O-galloylsambunigrin - has been isolated from the foliage of the Australian tropical rainforest tree species Elaeocarpus sericopetalus F. Muell. (Elaeocarpaceae). This is the first formal characterisation of a cyanogenic constituent in the Elaeocarpaceae family, and only the second in the order Malvales. 6'-O-galloylsambunigrin was identified as the principal glycoside, accounting for 91% of total cyanogen in a leaf methanol extract. Preliminary analyses indicated that the remaining cyanogen content may comprise small quantities of sambunigrin, as well as di- and tri-gallates of sambunigrin. E. sericopetalus was found to have foliar concentrations of cyanogenic glycosides among the highest reported for tree leaves, up to 5.2 mg CN g(-1) dry wt.
Spatial relations between floodplain environments and land use - land cover of a large lowland tropical river valley: Pánuco basin, México.	Large lowland river valleys include a variety of floodplain environments that represent opportunities and constraints for human activities. This study integrates extensive field observations and geomorphic data with analysis of satellite remote sensing data to examine spatial relations between land use/land cover (LULC) and floodplain environments in the lower Pánuco basin of eastern Mexico. The floodplain of the lower Pánuco basin was delineated by combining a digital elevation model with a satellite image of a large flood event. The LULC was classified by combining a hybrid classification strategy with image stratification, applied to 15-m-resolution ASTER data. A geomorphic classification of floodplain environments was performed using a dry-stage image (ASTER data) and a 1993 Landsat image acquired during a large flood event. Accuracy assessment was based on aerial photographs (1:38,000), global positioning satellite ground-truthing, and a Landsat 7ETM(+) image from 2000, which resulted in an overall accuracy of 82.9% and a KHAT of 79.8% for the LULC classification. The geomorphic classification yielded 83.5% overall accuracy, whereas the KHAT was 81.5%. LULC analysis was performed for the entire floodplain and individually within four valley segments. The analysis indicates that the study area is primarily utilized for grazing and farming. Agriculture is primarily associated with coarse-grained (sandy/silty) natural levee and point bar units close to the river channel, whereas cattle grazing occurs in distal and lower-lying reaches dominated by cohesive fine-grained (clayey) deposits, such as backswamps. In the Pánuco valley, wetlands and lakes occur within backswamp environments, whereas in the Moctezuma segments, wetlands and lakes are associated with relict channels. This study reveals considerable variation in LULC related to spatial differences in floodplain environments and illustrates the importance of considering older anthropogenic influences on the landscape. The research design should be applicable for other large lowland coastal plain river valleys where agriculture is a major component of the floodplain landscape.
The effect of 8 days of training in tropical environment on performance in neutral climate in swimmers.	The tropical climate imposes a high level of physiological stress during exercise. As a result of this stress, adaptations may be induced and could benefit athletes upon return to a neutral climate. To test this hypothesis, climate effects on swimming performance were assessed in 16 swimmers: 6 trained for 8 days in a tropical climate, 6 trained for 8 days at altitude, and 4 served as a tapering group. The swimming performance was assessed during a 400-m freestyle before the experimental period, and at 10 days and 30 days after. The results demonstrated that only the tropical group increased performance (10.0 +/- 4.2 %, p < 0.03 for the tropical group 30 days after return). No significant change in performance was noted for the two other groups 10 or 30 days post-training. The results of the present study demonstrated that training in a tropical climate significantly enhances performance in swimmers 30 days after return to neutral climate. However, further studies are needed to evaluate the effects of such a climate on performance in other sports.
Phylogenetic relationships and historical biogeography of neotropical parrots (Psittaciformes: Psittacidae: Arini) inferred from mitochondrial and nuclear DNA sequences.	Previous hypotheses of phylogenetic relationships among Neotropical parrots were based on limited taxon sampling and lacked support for most internal nodes. In this study we increased the number of taxa (29 species belonging to 25 of the 30 genera) and gene sequences (6388 base pairs of RAG-1, cyt b, NADH2, ATPase 6, ATPase 8, COIII, 12S rDNA, and 16S rDNA) to obtain a stronger molecular phylogenetic hypothesis for this group of birds. Analyses of the combined gene sequences using maximum likelihood and Bayesian methods resulted in a well-supported phylogeny and indicated that amazons and allies are a sister clade to macaws, conures, and relatives, and these two clades are in turn a sister group to parrotlets. Key morphological and behavioral characters used in previous classifications were mapped on the molecular tree and were phylogenetically uninformative. We estimated divergence times of taxa using the molecular tree and Bayesian and penalized likelihood methods that allow for rate variation in DNA substitutions among sites and taxa. Our estimates suggest that the Neotropical parrots shared a common ancestor with Australian parrots 59 Mya (million of years ago; 95% credibility interval (CrI) 66, 51 Mya), well before Australia separated from Antarctica and South America, implying that ancestral parrots were widespread in Gondwanaland. Thus, the divergence of Australian and Neotropical parrots could be attributed to vicariance. The three major clades of Neotropical parrots originated about 50 Mya (95% CrI 57, 41 Mya), coinciding with periods of higher sea level when both Antarctica and South America were fragmented with transcontinental seaways, and likely isolated the ancestors of modern Neotropical parrots in different regions in these continents. The correspondence between major paleoenvironmental changes in South America and the diversification of genera in the clade of amazons and allies between 46 and 16 Mya suggests they diversified exclusively in South America. Conversely, ancestors of parrotlets and of macaws, conures, and allies may have been isolated in Antarctica and/or the southern cone of South America, and only dispersed out of these southern regions when climate cooled and Antarctica became ice-encrusted about 35 Mya. The subsequent radiation of macaws and their allies in South America beginning about 28 Mya (95% CrI 22, 35 Mya) coincides with the uplift of the Andes and the subsequent formation of dry, open grassland habitats that would have facilitated ecological speciation via niche expansion from forested habitats.
Floral preferences of a neotropical stingless bee, Melipona quadrifasciata Lepeletier (Apidae: Meliponina) in an urban forest fragment.	Species of plants used by Melipona quadrifasciata Lepeletier for pollen and nectar gathering in an urban forest fragment were recorded in Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil. Melipona quadrifasciata visited 22 out of 103 flowering plant species. The plant species belonged mainly to Myrtaceae, Asteraceae, and Convolvulaceae (64% of the visits). Melipona quadrifasciata tended to collect pollen or nectar each time, except for Myrtaceae species, from which both pollen and nectar were collected. Bee abundance at flowers did not significantly correlate to food availability (expressed by flowering plant richness). We found a relatively high similarity (50%) between plant species used by M. quadrifasciata, which was also found in studies carried out in São Paulo State. However, low similarity (17%) was found between the results of this study and those of another done in Bahia State, Brazil.
The arboreal component of a dry forest in Northeastern Brazil.	The dry forests of northeastern Brazil are found near the coastal zone and on low, isolated mountains inland amid semi-arid vegetation. The floristic composition of these dry montane forests, as well as their relationship to humid forests (Atlantic forest sensu stricto) and to the deciduous thorn woodlands (Caatinga sensu stricto) of the Brazilian northeast are not yet well known. This paper sought to determine if the arboreal plants in a dry forest growing on a low mountain in the semi-arid inland region (Serra Negra, 8 degrees 35 - 8 degrees 38 S and 38 degrees 02 - 38 degrees 04 W) between the municipalities of Floresta and Inajá, state of Pernambuco have the same floristic composition and structure as that seen in other regional forests. In fifty 10 x 20 m plots all live and standing dead trees with trunk measuring > 5 cm diameter at breast height were measured. Floristic similarities between the forest studied and other regional forests were assessed using multivariate analysis. The results demonstrate that the dry forest studied can be classified into two groups that represent two major vegetational transitions: (1) a humid forest/dry forest transition; and (2) a deciduous thorn-woodland/ dry forest transition.
Wood mechanics, allometry, and life-history variation in a tropical rain forest tree community.	Wood density plays a central role in the life-history variation of trees, and has important consequences for mechanical properties of wood, stem and branches, and tree architecture. Wood density, modulus of rupture, modulus of elasticity, and safety factors for buckling and bending were determined for saplings of 30 Bolivian rain forest tree species, and related to two important life-history axes: juvenile light demand and maximum adult stature. Wood density was strongly positively related to wood strength and stiffness. Species safety factor for buckling was positively related to wood density and stiffness, but tree architecture (height : diameter ratio) was the strongest determinant of mechanical safety. Shade-tolerant species had dense and tough wood to enhance survival in the understorey, whereas pioneer species had low-density wood and low safety margins to enhance growth in gaps. Pioneer and shade-tolerant species showed opposite relationships between species traits and adult stature. Light demand and adult stature affect wood properties, tree architecture and plant performance in different ways, contributing to the coexistence of rain forest species.
Evidence of the activity of dissimilatory sulfate-reducing prokaryotes in nonsulfidogenic tropical mobile muds.	In spite of the nonsulfidic conditions and abundant reactive iron(III) commonly found in mobile tropical deltaic muds, genes encoding dissimilatory sulfite reductase (dsr) were successfully amplified from the upper approximately 1 m of coastal deposits sampled along French Guiana and in the Gulf of Papua. The dsr sequences retrieved were highly diverse, were generally represented in both study regions and fell into six large phylogenetic groupings: Deltaproteobacteria, Thermodesulfovibrio groups, Firmicutes and three groups without known cultured representatives. The spatial and temporal distribution of dsr sequences strongly supports the contention that the sulfate-reducing prokaryote communities in mobile mud environments are cosmopolitan and stable over a period of years. The decrease in the (35)SO(4) (2-) tracer demonstrates that, despite abundant reactive sedimentary iron(III) ( approximately 350-400 mumol g(-1)), the sulfate-reducing prokaryotes present are active, with the highest levels of sulfide being generated in the upper zones of the cores (0-30 cm). Both the time course of the (35)S-sulfide tracer activity and the lack of reduced sulfur in sediments demonstrate virtually complete anaerobic loss of solid phase sulfides. We propose a pathway of organic matter oxidation involving at least 5-25% of the remineralized carbon, wherein sulfide produced by sulfate-reducing prokaryotes is cyclically oxidized biotically or abiotically by metal oxides.
The unified neutral theory of biodiversity: do the numbers add up?	Hubbell's unified neutral theory is a zero-sum ecological drift model in which population sizes change at random in a process resembling genetic drift, eventually leading to extinction. Diversity is maintained within the community by speciation. Hubbell's model makes predictions about the distribution of species abundances within communities and the turnover of species from place to place (beta diversity). However, ecological drift cannot be tested adequately against these predictions without independent estimates of speciation rates, population sizes, and dispersal distances. A more practical prediction from ecological drift is that time to extinction of a population of size N is approximately 2N generations. I test this prediction here using data for passerine birds (Passeriformes). Waiting times to speciation and extinction were estimated from genetic divergence between sister populations and a lineage-through-time plot for endemic South American suboscine passerines. Population sizes were estimated from local counts of birds in two large forest plots extrapolated to the area of wet tropical forest in South America and from atlas data on European passerines. Waiting times to extinction (ca. 2 Ma) are much less than twice the product of average population size (4.0 and 14.4 x 10(6) individuals in South America and Europe) and generation length (five and three years) for songbirds, that is, 40 and 86 Ma, respectively. Thus, drift is too slow to account for turnover in regional avifaunas. Presumably, other processes, involving external drivers, such as climate and physiographic change, and internal drivers, such as evolutionary change in antagonistic interactions, predominate. Hubbell's model is historical and geographic, and his perspective importantly links local and regional process and pattern. Ecological reality can be added to the mix while retaining Hubbell's concept of continuity of communities in space and time.
Assessment of genetic diversity in 31 species of mangroves and their associates through RAPD and AFLP markers.	Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) markers were used to assess the genetic diversity in 31 species of mangroves and mangrove associates. Four AFLP primer combinations resulted in the amplification of 840 bands with an average of 210 bands per primer combination and 11 RAPD primers yielded 319 bands with an average of 29 bands per primer. The percentage of polymorphism detected was too high indicating the high degree of genetic variability in mangrove taxa both at inter- and intra-generic levels. In the dendrogram, species belonging to a particular family/ genus, taxa inhabiting similar habitats or having similar adaptations tended to be together. There were exceptions too; as many unrelated species of mangroves form clusters. The intrafamilial classification and inter-relationships of genera in the family Rhizophoraceae could be confirmed by molecular analysis. Both the markers RAPD and AFLP were found equally informative and useful for a better understanding of the genetic variability and genome relationships among mangroves and their associated species.
Effects of fluoride emissions on two tropical grasses: Chloris gayana and Panicum maximum cv. Colonião.	In order to detect early effects of plant contamination by fluoride emission on two tropical grasses, Chloris gayana and Panicum maximum, previously cultivated under greenhouse conditions, were exposed to a single source of fluoride emission at a station at 1.1 km from an aluminum smelter in Ouro Preto, MG, Brazil. Controls were placed at a reference station 78km from the fluoride source. During an 8-day period of exposure leaf injury, ionic permeability, photosynthetic rates, stomatal conductance, transpiration, chlorophyll a fluorescence and chlorophyll, soluble carbohydrates and fluoride contents were evaluated. Plants at the Ouro Preto station showed an increase in fluoride content, leaf injury and ionic permeability. Symptoms of injury by fluoride exposure were visible after 3-4 days in both species. High electrolyte leakage and correlation coefficients between the total ionic permeability and the fluoride content in leaves indicate a fluoride effect on the structural and/or functional integrity of the cellular membranes. Leaf fluoride injuries were quite different in the two species. In C. gayana necroses were limited to the leaf tips, while in P. maximum damages were observed in the whole leaf, suggesting a higher susceptibility of this latter species to fluoride. Nonetheless, neither grass showed statistical differences with respect to photosynthetic rates, stomatal conductance, transpiration, chlorophyll a fluorescence and chlorophyll content in leaves without any apparent fluoride injury. Plants at the Ouro Preto station showed a significant decrease in reducing sugar content between 3 and 5 days of exposure to fluoride, but thereafter reducing sugar content increased reaching the content of control plants. Fluoride exposed plants also showed a remarkable starch content reduction, remaining always much lower than those at the reference station.
Foliar temperature tolerance of temperate and tropical evergreen rain forest trees of Australia.	Australian rain forests extend from tropical climates in the north to temperate climates in the south, providing an opportunity to investigate physiological responses to temperature of both temperate and tropical species within the same forest type. Eight, rain forest canopy tree species were selected to cover the 33 degrees latitudinal range of rain forests in eastern Australia. Temperature tolerance was measured in 6-year-old plants grown in a common environment, by exposing leaves to a series of high temperatures during late summer and a series of freezing temperatures during midwinter. Damage was evaluated based on chlorophyll fluorescence measurements made 2 h after exposure and by visual assessment of leaf damage made a week after exposure. Leaves of the tropical species were more heat tolerant and less frost tolerant than leaves of the temperate species, which is consistent with their climate distributions. In contrast, the temperature tolerance of the photosynthetic apparatus was unrelated to climate in a species' native habitat. However, the tropical species underwent significant photoinhibition during winter. All species maintained the integrity of the photosynthetic apparatus and avoided tissue damage over a similar span of temperatures (about 60 degrees C), reflecting the similar annual temperature ranges in Australia's temperate and tropical rain forests. Chlorophyll fluorescence measurements and visual assessment of leaf damage provided different estimates of the absolute and relative temperature tolerances of the species, thus emphasizing the importance of a direct assessment of tissue damage for determining a species' temperature tolerance.
Effects of mulching and intercropping on temporal-spatial variation of soil temperature in tea plantation in subtropical hilly region]	The study of four years straw mulching and white clover intercropping in a tea plantation in subtropical hilly region showed that the soil temperature in the plantation presented a distinct dynamic temporal-spatial variation and hysteresis, which was greatly accorded with the fittest temperature of tea growth. Straw mulching and white clover intercropping altered the nature of soil thermal exchanging layer (soil surface), decreased daily temperature difference, enhanced the temperature stability in the same soil layer, and had duplex effects of lowering temperature when it went up and increasing and keeping temperature when it went down. The effectiveness was in the order of white clover intercropping > straw mulching > control, 13:00 > 19:00 >7:00,and lowering temperature > increasing and keeping temperature, and decreased with soil depth. Straw mulching and white clover intercropping adjusted the switching point of the temporal-spatial variation of soil temperature, and evidently decreased the emergence of harmful high temperature. During the period of continual high temperature, these measures markedly lowered soil temperature, and effectively shortened the duration of this period.
Changes of species diversity in gap gradient of mid-subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest in Wanmulin Forest]	Based on the investigation of gap and non-gap stands in the mid-subtropical evergreen broad-leaved forest in Wanmulin Nature Reserve of Fujian Province, this paper studied the changes of species diversity in gap gradient and in gaps with different sizes. The results showed that the species richness and diversity decreased gradually from gap center to non-gap, ecological dominance was higher in center and lower in edges, and species evenness was in adverse to ecological dominance. The species diversity in all areas of gap was the maximum when the gap size was 200 to approximately 300 m2.
Infectious mononucleosis-like syndromes in febrile travelers returning from the tropics.	Infectious mononucleosis (IM), resulting from Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, and IM-like syndromes, mainly due to cytomegalovirus (CMV), Toxoplasma gondii, or human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), have been occasionally reported in travelers returning from the tropics. Our objective was to investigate the prevalence, outcome, and diagnostic predictors of these syndromes in febrile travelers. Between April 2000 and March 2005, all febrile travelers and migrants presenting at our referral centers within 12 months after a tropical stay were prospectively included. We identified all patients serologically diagnosed with IM or IM-like syndrome and compared them with the rest of the cohort. During the 5-year period, 72/1,842 patients (4%) were diagnosed with an IM-like syndrome, including 36 CMV, 16 T gondii, 15 EBV, and 5 HIV primary infections. All patients were western travelers or expatriates. Mean delay before consultation was 2 weeks. Most patients had consulted other practitioners and/or received presumptive treatment. A minority of patients presented with IM clinical features. Lymphocytosis > or =40% of the white blood cells (WBC) and reactive/atypical lymphocyte morphology were observed in 60 and 30% of the patients. The four diseases were indistinguishable. Protracted fever and asthenia were common but complications rarely occurred. IM-like syndromes were independently associated with fever >7 days, lymphadenopathy, elevated liver enzymes, and lymphocytosis > or =40% of WBC. Diagnostic probability increased to >20% if at least three of these predictors were present. Diagnosis of IM and IM-like syndrome is not uncommon in febrile travelers, with a higher proportion of primary CMV, T gondii, and HIV infections than in nonimported series. Consequently, classic IM clinical and laboratory features are often lacking. All four pathogens should be systematically considered because early diagnosis should avoid unnecessary investigations and treatment and allow early intervention in case of primary HIV infection.
Evidence for geographic isolation and signs of endemism within a protistan morphospecies.	The possible existence of endemism among microorganisms resulting from and preserved by geographic isolation is one of the most controversial topics in microbial ecology. We isolated 31 strains of "Spumella-like" flagellates from remote sampling sites from all continents, including Antarctica. These and another 23 isolates from a former study were characterized morphologically and by small-subunit rRNA gene sequence analysis and tested for the maximum temperature tolerance. Only a minority of the Spumella morpho- and phylotypes from the geographically isolated Antarctic continent follow the worldwide trend of a linear correlation between ambient (air) temperature during strain isolation and heat tolerance of the isolates. A high percentage of the Antarctic isolates, but none of the isolates from locations on all other continents, were obligate psychrophilic, although some of the latter were isolated at low ambient temperatures. The drastic deviation of Antarctic representatives of Spumella from the global trend of temperature adaptation of this morphospecies provides strong evidence for geographic transport restriction of a microorganism; i.e., Antarctic protistan communities are less influenced by transport of protists to and from the Antarctic continent than by local adaptation, a subtle form of endemism.
Fever in travelers returning from tropical areas: prospective observational study of 613 cases hospitalised in Marseilles, France, 1999-2003.	Febrile travelers may pose a diagnostic challenge for Western physicians who are frequently involved in the assessment of these patients but unfamiliar with tropical diseases. Evaluation of this situation requires an understanding of the common etiologies, which are associated with the demographics of travelers and the destinations.
Sperm motion characteristics of GarolexMalpura sheep evolved in a semi-arid tropical environment through introgression of FecB gene.	The arid and semi-arid tropical climates of India are endowed with vast diversity of non-prolific sheep breeds. The GarolexMalpura sheep has been evolved in a semi-arid tropical environment by introgression of FecB gene via artificial insemination of Malpura ewes using diluted semen of prolific microsheep Garole and subsequently multiplied by inter se mating among GarolexMalpura halfbreds. The aim of the present study was to identify FecB mutation in sexually mature GarolexMalpura rams by forced RFLP-PCR of BMPR-1B gene and evaluate: (i) semen production and sperm motion characteristics of GM rams and (ii) influence of age and FecB genotype on their semen attributes. Semen was collected during autumn season from 12 donor rams by artificial vagina on 8 occasions at weekly interval. The overall means of traits which did not differed significantly with age or FecB genotyping were volume (0.72 ml), mass motility (4.44), sperm concentration (2721.56 x 10(6)ml(-1)), curvilinear velocity (134.51 microm/s), motility (81.3%), amplitude of lateral head displacement (6.24 microm), beat frequency (44.43 Hz), sperm head elongation (48.9%) and sperm head area (10.01 microm(2)). The FecB genotyping had a significant effect (P<0.05) on percent linearity and rapid motile sperms, which did not vary significantly with age. Although sperm concentration was higher in FecB(BB) and FecB(B+), compared to FecB(++) genotypes but the effect was non-significant. The age and FecB genotyping had significant effects (P<0.05) on straightness, average path velocity, straight-line velocity and percentage of medium or slow motile sperms. It is concluded that GarolexMalpura rams with introgressed FecB gene are capable of producing good quality semen in a semi-arid tropical climate.
A vaccine cold chain freezing study in PNG highlights technology needs for hot climate countries.	Fourteen data loggers were packed with vaccine vials at the national vaccine store, Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea (PNG), and sent to peripheral locations in the health system. The temperatures that the data loggers recorded during their passage along the cold chain indicated that heat damage was unlikely, but that all vials were exposed to freezing temperatures at some time. The commonest place where freezing conditions existed was during transport. The freezing conditions were likely induced by packing the vials too close to the ice packs that were themselves too cold, and with insufficient insulation between them. This situation was rectified and a repeat dispatch of data loggers demonstrated that the system had indeed been rectified. Avoiding freeze damage becomes even more important as the price of freeze-sensitive vaccines increases with the introduction of more multiple-antigen vaccines. This low-cost high-tech method of evaluating the cold chain function is highly recommended for developing and industrialized nations and should be used on a regular basis to check the integrity of the vaccine cold chain. The study highlights the need for technological solutions to avoid vaccine freezing, particularly in hot climate countries.
Reproductive patterns and reproductive pathologies of stray bitches in the tropics.	The objectives of this study were to determine the annual reproductive pattern and to estimate the frequency of reproductive pathologies in female mongrel stray dogs under tropical conditions. The genital tracts of 300 mongrel bitches from a municipal dog pound were examined post-mortem from January to December 2003. Season of the year, age, size, and body condition score (BCS) were recorded for each dog. The year was divided into three seasons: warm-dry (March-June), warm-humid (July-October), and fresh-humid (November-February). Distribution of estrus periods was not influenced by any of the factors studied (i.e. season, age, size, BCS). A significantly lower number of pregnancies were recorded during the warm-dry season, probably as a consequence of embryo resorption. Underweight animals had a significantly lower percentage of pregnancies than bitches of ideal BCS. More ovulations per bitch occurred during the warm-humid season than during the other seasons of the year, probably due to climatic factors. Bitches of medium and large size had more ovulations than those of small size. Of the 300 bitches examined, 43.5% had one or more genital pathologies. The most frequent pathologies found in the ovary, uterus, and vagina were epoöphoron cysts (6.7%), serosal inclusion cysts (5.0%), and transmissible venereal tumors (15.3%), but the capacity of the females to come into estrus or to become pregnant was not affected by these conditions. We concluded that stray domestic bitches in the tropics were not seasonal breeders, but their reproductive pattern was apparently modified by environmental factors such as temperature and probably photoperiod. Although several bitches in the present study had reproductive pathology, the most prevalent pathologies did not adversely reproductive capacity.
Rainfall and labile carbon availability control litter nitrogen dynamics in a tropical dry forest.	N cycling in tropical dry forests is driven by rainfall seasonality but the mechanisms involved are not well understood. We studied the seasonal variation in N dynamics and microbial biomass in the surface litter of a tropical dry forest ecosystem in Mexico over a 2-year period. Litter was collected at 4 different times of the year to determine changes in total, soluble, and microbial C and N concentrations. Additionally, litter from each sampling date was incubated under laboratory conditions to determine potential C mineralization rate, net N mineralization, net C and N microbial immobilization, and net nitrification. Litter C concentrations were highest in the early-dry season and lowest in the rainy season, while the seasonal changes in N concentrations varied between years. Litter P was higher in the rainy than in the early-dry season. Water-soluble organic C (WSOC) and water-soluble N concentrations were highest during the early- and late-dry seasons and represented up to 4.1 and 5.9% of the total C and N, respectively. NH (4) (+) and NO (3) (-) showed different seasonal and annual variations. They represented an average 23% of soluble N. Microbial C was generally higher in the dry than in the wet seasons, while microbial N was lowest in the late-dry and highest in the early-rainy seasons. Incubations showed that lowest potential C mineralization rates and C and N microbial immobilization occurred in rainy season litter, and were positively correlated to WSOC. Net nitrification was highest in rainy season litter. Our results showed that the seasonal pattern in N dynamics was influenced by rainfall seasonality and labile C availability, and not by microbial biomass. We propose a conceptual model to hypothesize how N dynamics in the litter layer of the Chamela tropical dry forest respond to the seasonal variation in rainfall.
Salinity and light interactively affect neotropical mangrove seedlings at the leaf and whole plant levels.	We have studied the interactive effects of salinity and light on Avicennia germinans mangrove seedlings in greenhouse and field experiments. We hypothesized that net photosynthesis, growth, and survivorship rates should increase more with an increase in light availability for plants growing at low salinity than for those growing at high salinity. This hypothesis was supported by our results for net photosynthesis and growth. Net daily photosynthesis did increase more with increasing light for low-salinity plants than for high-salinity plants. Stomatal conductance, leaf-level transpiration, and internal CO(2) concentrations were lower at high than at low salinity. At high light, the ratio of leaf respiration to assimilation was 2.5 times greater at high than at low salinity. Stomatal limitations and increased respiratory costs may explain why, at high salinity, seedlings did not respond to increased light availability with increased net photosynthesis. Seedling mass and growth rates increased more with increasing light availability at low than at high salinity. Ratios of root mass to leaf mass were higher at high salinity, suggesting that either water or nutrient limitations may have limited seedling growth at high salinity in response to increasing light. The interactive effects of salinity and light on seedling size and growth rates observed in the greenhouse were robust in the field, despite the presence of other factors in the field--such as inundation, nutrient gradients, and herbivory. In the field, seedling survivorship was higher at low than at high salinity and increased with light availability. Interestingly, the positive effect of light on seedling survivorship was stronger at high salinity, indicating that growth and survivorship rates are decoupled. In general, this study demonstrates that environmental effects at the leaf-level also influence whole plant growth in mangroves.
Psidium guajava 'Paluma' (the guava plant) as a new bio-indicator of ozone in the tropics.	Psidium guajava 'Paluma' saplings were exposed to carbon filtered air (CF), ambient non-filtered air (NF), and ambient non-filtered air+40ppb ozone (NF+O(3)) 8h per day during two months. The AOT40 values at the end of the experiment were 48, 910 and 12 895ppbh(-1), respectively for the three treatments. After 5 days of exposure (AOT40=1497ppbh(-1)), interveinal red stippling appeared in plants in the NF+O(3) chamber. In the NF chamber, symptoms were observed only after 40 days of exposure (AOT40=880ppbh(-1)). After 60 days, injured leaves per plant corresponded to 86% in NF+O(3) and 25% in the NF treatment, and the average leaf area injured was 45% in NF+O(3) and 5% in the NF treatment. The extent of leaf area injured (leaf injury index) was explained mainly by the accumulated exposure of ozone (r(2)=0.91; p<0.05).
Occurrence of arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi in bromeliad species from the tropical Atlantic forest biome in Brazil.	The mycorrhizal status of epiphytic, rupicolous, and terrestrial bromeliad species from the Brazilian Atlantic Rain Forest has been examined. Roots of 13 species of bromeliads were analyzed for the presence of mycorrhizal structures such as arbuscules, hyphae, and vesicles as well as other fungal structures. Rhizosphere soil was sampled to identify arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal (AMF) species associated only with terrestrial bromeliad species. Most specimens collected were epiphytic bromeliads in the genera Aechmea, Bilbergia, Nidularium, Tillandsia, and Vriesea. Differentiating structures of AMF were found in only three species of bromeliads. The pattern of mycorrhizal colonization was mainly internal, and external mycelium and arbuscules were observed only in the terrestrial Nidularium procerum. Root endophytes with dark brown septate mycelium, thin external hyphae, and Rhizoctonia-like sclerotia were also detected in some root segments. A total of ten spore morphotypes were recovered from the rhizosphere of N. procerum, with Acaulospora mellea, A. foveata, and Glomus sp. being the most common species recovered. Our study demonstrated that most of the epiphytic species are not associated with AMF. We attribute this mainly to the exposed bare root conditions found in epiphytic bromeliads.
Intragenomic rDNA ITS2 variation in the neotropical Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) albitarsis complex (Diptera: Culicidae).	We cloned and sequenced the rDNA internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) of 4 species belonging to the neotropical Anopheles (Nyssorhynchus) albitarsis complex, that is, A. albitarsis; A. albitarsis B; Anopheles marajoara, a proven malaria vector; and Anopheles deaneorum, a suspected vector. Even though the ITS2 sequences of these species were very similar (< or =1.17% divergence), we found differences suitable for species identification and intragenomic variation of possible consequence in phylogenetic reconstruction. Variation came from 2 microsatellite regions and a number of indels and base substitutions. The existence of partially correlated subsets of clones in A. albitarsis is hypothesized either to be separate rDNA loci or to be semi-independently evolving portions of a single rDNA locus. No differences were found between males and females, suggesting that similar rDNA arrays exist on both the X and Y chromosomes. In addition, highly variant clones, possibly pseudogenes, were found in A. marajoara from Venezuela.
Hyperreactive malarial splenomegaly in expatriates.	Hyperreactive malarial splenomegaly, one of the major causes of splenomegaly in tropics, has been often reported in expatriates of non-tropical settings. Essential features are recurrent malarial infection, overproduction of IgM and hyperplasia of lymphoreticular system. The practice of diagnosing the condition by exclusion of obvious causes of splenomegaly in the tropics has been abandoned. There are specific criteria for the diagnosis. Huge splenomegaly >10 cm below costal margin, serum IgM more than 2 x standard deviation (2SD) above the local mean, high titre of malarial antibodies and response to antimalarial drugs are the cornerstones of the diagnosis. Splenic lymphoma with villous lymphocytes coexists with this condition and it should always be considered in the differential diagnosis of unresponsive or poorly responsive cases of hyperreactive malarial splenomegaly. Condition with fever and acute haemolysis in HMS has been termed as Fulminant tropical splenomegaly syndrome. Treatment of the condition depends on antimalarial (chloroquine/ proguanil/ pyrimethamine) chemoprophylaxis for 1 year or more.
Degradation of fipronil under laboratory conditions in a tropical soil from sirinhaém pernambuco, Brazil.	The objective of this research was to assess the degradation of fipronil [5-amino-1-(2,6-dichloro-alpha,alpha,alpha -trifluoro-p-tolyl)-4-trifluoromethylsulfinylpyrazole-3-carbonitrile] in soils from sugar cane fields in Northeastern Brazil. Degradation experiments were carried out under laboratory conditions (controlled temperature and in the dark), where sterile and non-sterile soils (Ustoxs) were incubated [under moisture content of 55% of the water holding capacity (WHC)] and analyzed for fipronil disappearance and metabolite formation. Microbial communities present in the soil degrade fipronil. However, biodegradation seems to be dependent on the bioavailability of the fipronil and the half-life according to the zero-order model. Fipronil degradation rate appeared to be biphasic. Degradation fipronil ranged from 83 days (initial concentration = 978 ng g(-1); short-term experiment) to 200 days (initial concentration = 689 ng g(-1); long-term experiment). This an initial slower rate followed by a faster rate after 90 days of incubation may lead to shorter half-life than that calculated with the zero-order model. The sulfone derivative (an oxidation product) was the predominant metabolite, but the sulfide (a reduction product) and amide (a hydrolysis product) derivatives were also formed under non-sterile conditions after 120 days of incubation. The metabolites underwent further biodegradation, particularly the sulfone derivative. Bioavailability appears to affect fipronil degradation in soils with an effective capacity to adsorb fipronil (such as Ustoxs), while redox potential was important for the formation of metabolites. Despite the fine texture, more aerobic sites were present, thus favoring the formation of the sulfone metabolite over that of the sulfide metabolite. Therefore, microaggregation of Ustoxs, with high clay content, played a very important role in determining the types of metabolites formed.
Plants use macronutrients accumulated in leaf-cutting ant nests.	Leaf-cutting ants (Atta spp.) are known for their extensive defoliation in neo-tropical forests and savannahs. Debate about the costs and benefits of their activities has been largely dominated by their detrimental effects on agriculture and agroforestry. However, the large accumulation of nutrients and changes in soil properties near their nests might benefit plants growing near them. Here, we test whether trees use nutrients that accumulate in debris piles near, or refuse chambers within, leaf-cutting ant nests. At two tropical sites (a moist tropical forest site in Panama and a savannah site in Brazil), we fed leaves labelled with the stable isotope 15N to two species of leaf-cutting ants (Atta colombica and Atta laevigata) and traced the stable isotope label in plants surrounding the two nests. Thus, we show that plants in both sites access resources associated with Atta nests. In addition, leaf tissue of trees near the nests labelled with 15N had significantly higher calcium concentrations than those of distal, unlabelled conspecifics. It has been documented that calcium is a limiting macronutrient in tropical forests and savannahs. Atta may thus play an important ecological role through their long-distance transport, redistribution and concentration of critical macronutrients.
Demonstration of anaerobic stabilization of black water in accumulation systems under tropical conditions.	The anaerobic digestion of "human waste" was studied at Mlalakuwa residential settlement in Dar-es-Salaam, Tanzania at ambient tropical temperatures (24-31 degrees C). This settlement experiences a high water table with flooding during the rainy season, resulting in a very costly emptying of the latrines once per month. To improve the situation, two plastic tanks (while one is in use, the other one is on stand-by) of 3000 l capacity each, named as Improved Pit-Latrines Without Urine Separation (IMPLWUS), were used as latrine pits. They received faeces+urine+wash water; basically, an accumulation system. Septic tank seed sludge was used. The dissolved chemical oxygen demand (COD(dis)) remaining when the reactor was closed after 380 days was about 8 g COD/l, volatile fatty acids were 100 mg COD/l and total ammonium nitrogen was about 2.8 g N/l, implying the possibility of methanogenesis inhibition. Stability results indicated a need for more degradation time after reactor closure. Estimated biogas production from wastewater generated by 10 people was 544 g COD-CH(4)/day, not enough for cooking purposes.
Symbiotic nitrogen fixation in a tropical rainforest: 15N natural abundance measurements supported by experimental isotopic enrichment.	* Leguminous trees are very common in the tropical rainforests of Guyana. Here, species-specific differences in N(2) fixation capability among nodulating legumes growing on different soils and a possible limitation of N(2) fixation by a relatively high nitrogen (N) and low phosphorus (P) availability in the forest were investigated. * Leaves of 17 nodulating species and 17 non-nodulating reference trees were sampled and their delta(15)N values measured. Estimates of N(2) fixation rates were calculated using the (15)N natural abundance method. Pot experiments were conducted on the effect of N and P availability on N(2) fixation using the (15)N-enriched isotope dilution method. * Nine species showed estimates of > 33% leaf N derived from N(2) fixation, while the others had low or undetectable N(2) fixation rates. High N and low P availability reduced N(2) fixation substantially. * The results suggest that a high N and low P availability in the forest limit N(2) fixation. At the forest ecosystem level, N(2) fixation was estimated at c. 6% of total N uptake by the tree community. We conclude that symbiotic N(2) fixation plays an important role in maintaining high amounts of soil available N in undisturbed forest.
Characterization of extracellular polymers synthesized by tropical intertidal biofilm bacteria.	This study was performed to determine the potential of tropical intertidal biofilm bacteria as a source of novel exopolymers (EPS).
Serum immunoglobulin concentrations in genetically different types of suckling beef calves in a tropical environment.	Factors influencing the serum concentrations of gamma-globulin (gamma-G) during the neonatal period were studied in Shorthorn x Hereford (SH), Africander x SH and Brahman x SH calves born to cows grazing in a tropical environment. There were no significant effects of age of dam, sex or breed of calf on the gamma-G concentrations of calves from birth to 48 hours of age. Concentrations of gamma-G fell within two ranges: group A, 10 to 20 g/l and group B, 35 to 70 g/l. The number of calves in each group was not significantly different between breeds and overall 30% of calves were in group A. Body weight gain from birth to 10-day-old was greater (P less than 0.01) in calves in group B than in group A. Plasma cholesterol concentrations in 10-day-old calves were higher in group B than in group A calves supporting the interpretation that group B calves had higher milk intakes. Identification of calves receiving adequate amounts of colostrum has fundamental significance for the efficient production of cattle in the tropics.
Myrmecophilic food body production in the understorey tree, Ryparosa kurrangii (Achariaceae), a rare Australian rainforest taxon.	Plant food bodies are rarely observed in the field, because of continual harvesting, and are often first documented on isolated glasshouse plants. Little is known about the genus Ryparosa (Achariaceae), and the appearance of outgrowths on leaves and stems of glasshouse-raised R. kurrangii seedlings suggested that the species may produce food bodies. Detailed macroimaging and histological techniques were used to characterize chemomorphological variation in food body material gathered from glasshouse plants. Two distinct types of food body were observed. Multicellular pearl bodies derived from epidermal and mesophyll tissue were produced on young leaves and stems, and contained lipids and glycogen-like carbohydrates. A unique form of lipid-rich multicellular food body that 'opens' during development was found exclusively on mature plant tissue. A filament network was associated with food body lipid droplets. This is the first detailed documentation of food body production in an understorey genus adapted to low light conditions. We suggest that the distinctive spatial deployment of Ryparosa food rewards, and the ants attracted to them, may be invaluable for keeping long-lived leaves free from epiphyllous communities.
Large variation in whole-plant water-use efficiency among tropical tree species.	It is well known that whole-plant water-use efficiency (transpiration efficiency of carbon gain, TE(C)) varies among plant species with different photosynthetic pathways. However, less is known of such variation among tree species within the C(3) group. Here we measured the TE(C) of seven C(3) tropical tree species. Isotopic analyses (delta(13)C, delta(18)O, and delta(15)N) and elemental analyses (carbon and nitrogen) were undertaken to provide insight into sources of variation in TE(C). Plants were grown over several months in approx. 80% full sunlight in individual 38-l containers in the Republic of Panama. Soil moisture content was nonlimiting. Significant variation was observed in TE(C) among the C(3) tree species. Values ranged from 1.6 mmol C mol(-1) H(2)O for teak (Tectona grandis) to 4.0 mmol C mol(-1) H(2)O for a legume, Platymiscium pinnatum. Variation in TE(C) was correlated with both leaf N concentration, a proxy for photosynthetic capacity, and oxygen-isotope enrichment, a proxy for stomatal conductance. The TE(C) varied with C-isotope discrimination within species, but the relationship broke down among species, reflecting the existence of species-specific offsets.
Bryophyte dispersal by flying foxes: a novel discovery.	This research provides the first evidence of dispersal of bryophytes and associated microorganisms through ingestion by a highly mobile vertebrate vector, the spectacled flying fox (Pteropus conspicillatus). Bryophyte fragments were found in faeces collected at four P. conspicillatus' camps in the Wet Tropics bioregion, northeastern Australia. These fragments were viable when grown in culture; live invertebrates and other organisms were also present. Our study has significantly increased understanding of the role of flying foxes as dispersal vectors in tropical forests.
Water source partitioning among trees growing on shallow karst soils in a seasonally dry tropical climate.	The sources of water used by woody vegetation growing on karst soils in seasonally dry tropical regions are little known. In northern Yucatan (Mexico), trees withstand 4-6 months of annual drought in spite of the small water storage capacity of the shallow karst soil. We hypothesized that adult evergreen trees in Yucatan tap the aquifer for a reliable supply of water during the prolonged dry season. The naturally occurring concentration gradients in oxygen and hydrogen stable isotopes in soil, bedrock, groundwater and plant stem water were used to determine the sources of water used by native evergreen and drought-deciduous tree species. While the trees studied grew over a permanent water table (9-20 m depth), pit excavation showed that roots were largely restricted to the upper 2 m of the soil/bedrock profile. At the peak of the dry season, the delta(18)O signatures of potential water sources for the vegetation ranged from 4.1 +/- 1.1 per thousand in topsoil to -4.3 +/- 0.1 per thousand in groundwater. The delta(18)O values of tree stem water ranged from -2.8 +/- 0.3 per thousand in Talisia olivaeformis to 0.8 +/- 1 per thousand in Ficus cotinifolia, demonstrating vertical partitioning of soil/bedrock water among tree species. Stem water delta(18)O values were significantly different from that of groundwater for all the tree species investigated. Stem water samples plotted to the right of the meteoric water line, indicating utilization of water sources subject to evaporative isotopic enrichment. Foliar delta(13)C in adult trees varied widely among species, ranging from -25.3 +/- 0.3 per thousand in Enterolobium cyclocarpum to -28.7 +/- 0.4 per thousand in T. olivaeformis. Contrary to initial expectations, data indicate that native trees growing on shallow karst soils in northern Yucatan use little or no groundwater and depend mostly on water stored within the upper 2-3 m of the soil/bedrock profile. Water storage in subsurface soil-filled cavities and in the porous limestone bedrock is apparently sufficient to sustain adult evergreen trees throughout the pronounced dry season.
Towards measuring particle-associated fecal indicator bacteria in tropical streams.	A protocol to enumerate particle-associated microbial indicator bacteria (heterotrophic plate count [HPC], enterococci [ENT] and Clostridium perfringens [CP]) by membrane filtration in a tropical stream is proposed that relies on high-speed homogenization and chemical treatment. Application of this protocol to stream samples suggest that ENT measurements are more biased by the presence of aggregates than HPC or CP. Whole sample treatment typically increased the colony forming units (CFU) count by 9-52%. Analysis of different settled fractions and examination of the number of indicators recoverable from particles retained on a 5 microm filter in relation to the number of particles containing target indicators both indicate that relatively more ENT form aggregates than HPC or CP. Although the bias is smallest for CP, this does not imply that CP is a better indicator as this depends on the unknown extent to which pathogens are themselves found associated with particles.
The effect of the eye's surface topography on the total irradiance of ultraviolet radiation on the inner canthus.	Basal cell carcinoma is the most commonly occurring skin cancer in sub tropical climates. The link between ultraviolet radiation (UVR) and basal cell carcinomas (BCC) is strong. Numerous studies have investigated the spatial distribution of BCCs over the head and neck region and the relative UVR dose, with little or no correlation found between the UVR dose and occurrence rates. This is particularly noted in the inner canthus region. The inner canthus' field of view is restricted by the eye brow ridge, eye orbit and the cheek bone. Yet, the occurrence rate here of BCC's when compared to other regions that are more directly exposed to the environment is significantly higher. A possible causal effect for the increase in occurrence rate in this region is the focussed reflection of UVR from the tear film surface associated with the eye not previously considered in earlier studies. This paper investigates the potential for the surface topography of the eye to reflect focussed radiation towards the inner canthus using a ray tracing programme where the analysis is conducted at a cellular level. Defined hot spots, or striations, of increased irradiation were evidenced across the surface of the inner canthus. This increase in irradiation was not observed with macroscopic detectors which also possibly explain why this increased dose has not previously been detected during environmental measurements with large detectors on manikins or humans.
Metazoan parasite species richness in Neotropical fishes: hotspots and the geography of biodiversity.	Although research on parasite biodiversity has intensified recently, there are signs that parasites remain an underestimated component of total biodiversity in many regions of the planet. To identify geographical hotspots of parasite diversity, we performed qualitative and quantitative analyses of the parasite-host associations in fishes from Latin America and the Caribbean, a region that includes known hotspots of plant and animal biodiversity. The database included 10,904 metazoan parasite-host associations involving 1660 fish species. The number of host species with at least 1 parasite record was less than 10% of the total known fish species in the majority of countries. Associations involving adult endoparasites in actinopterygian fish hosts dominated the database. Across the whole region, no significant difference in parasite species richness was detected between marine and freshwater fishes. As a rule, host body size and study effort (number of studies per fish species) were good predictors of parasite species richness. Some interesting patterns emerged when we included only the regions with highest fish species biodiversity and study effort (Brazil, Mexico and the Caribbean Islands). Independently of differences in study effort or host body sizes, Mexico stands out as a hotspot of parasite diversity for freshwater fishes, as does Brasil for marine fishes. However, among 57 marine fish species common to all 3 regions, populations from the Caribbean consistently harboured more parasite species. These differences may reflect true biological patterns, or regional discrepancies in study effort and local priorities for fish parasitology research.
In situ assays with tropical cladocerans to evaluate edge-of-field pesticide runoff toxicity.	Tropical regions' economy is usually based on agriculture, which involves an intensive use, and even frequent overuse, of pesticides. Nevertheless, not much research has been done on the impact of pesticides on tropical aquatic ecosystems, which are often contaminated by runoff-related pesticide inputs due to unpredictable and torrential rainfalls. This study aimed to: (i) adapt and evaluate a short-term sublethal in situ assay using post-exposure feeding as an endpoint, to the tropical cladoceran species Diaphanosoma brachyurum (collected at the Pedra do Cavalo dam in the Paraguaçu River basin, Bahia, Brazil), and, (ii) assess the role of the standard species Daphnia magna as an adequate laboratory surrogate. Lethal and sublethal (post-exposure feeding) responses were assessed for the two species. To evaluate these responses under environmentally realistic exposure conditions, a runoff event was simulated in an agricultural area previously contaminated with different deltamethrin concentrations. The resultant runoff water was used to set up microcosms with different dilutions, simulating the entrance of runoff water in an adjacent lentic system. An in situ assay with D. brachyurum was performed inside the microcosms, allowing to discriminate the effects due to deltamethrin from those due to other potential stressors associated with the experimental design (e.g. organism handling, load of suspended particles, microcosm design). Water samples were collected from microcosms to conduct a laboratory assay with D. magna. The in situ methodologies revealed to be suitable to conduct assays with D. brachyurum under tropical conditions, since all exposed organisms were successfully retrieved from the chambers. Furthermore, none of the potential stressors associated with the experimental design influenced the daphnids' performance. The tropical cladoceran species, exposed under more realistic conditions, revealed to be more sensitive than the laboratory standard species: lethal effects were only observed for D. brachyurum and sublethal effects were noticed at a lower deltamethrin concentration for this species than for D. magna.
Selection by parasites in spate conditions in wild Trinidadian guppies (Poecilia reticulata).	Gyrodactylids are ubiquitous fish parasites and yet, with the notable exception of Gyrodactylus salaris, few studies have reported the effect of these parasites on host survival in natural populations. Here, we assess the impact of the parasite load of gyrodactylids (G. turnbulli and G. bullatarudis) on the survival and migration of guppies (Poecilia reticulata) in their natural habitat of the Aripo River in Trinidad. The recapture rate of males declined by 19% with every additional parasite, a remarkably high figure given that the parasite load in this study ranged from zero to 20 worms. In addition, with an increased number of parasites, males were more prone to be recovered downstream. In contrast, no effect of parasitism was observed in females. The mean parasite load sharply declined after a series of flushing events during heavy seasonal downpours. The parasite load varied significantly between fish depending on their location in the river, and the size of the fish explained variation in parasite load between individuals. The present study indicates that tropical gyrodactylid parasites can play an important role in the ecology of natural fish populations, causing intense bouts of natural selection in guppies during heavy rains in the wet season.
Dissipation kinetics of spiromesifen on tea (Camellia sinensis) under tropical conditions.	Spiromesifen (Oberon) is a new insecticide and miticide of chemical class ketoenol active against white flies (Bemisia spp., Trialeuroides spp.) and spider mites (Tetranychus and Panonychus spp.). Due to its potential significance in insect resistance management, it is important to establish its behaviour on crop and environment. In the present study, the degradation/dissipation of spiromesifen on tea crop under tropical environmental conditions was studied and its DT(50) (t(1/2)), and DT(90) (time to reduce to 90% of the initial value) were estimated. Spiromesifen was sprayed on tea crop after first rain flush at four different locations @ 96 and 192ga.i.ha(-1). Samples of tea leaves were drawn at 0, 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 15, 21 and 30 days after treatment and that of soil at 10 days after treatment and at harvest from 0 to 15 and 15 to 30cm layers. After crude extraction of tea leaves for spiromesifen residues with acetone:water, the contents were partitioned with cyclohexane:ethyl acetate and cleaned up on Florosil column. Soil residues were also extracted similarly. Quantification of residues was done on GC-MS in Selected Ion Monitoring (SIM) mode in mass range 271-274m/z. The LOQ of this method was found to be 0.05microgg(-1) while LOD being 0.015microgg(-1). The DT(50) of spiromesifen when applied at recommended doses in tea leaves was found to be 5.0-8.5 days. Ninety-nine percent degradation was found to occur within 33-57 days after application. In soil, no residues of spiromesifen were detectable 10 days after treatment.
Soil degradation in the tropical forests of the Dominican Republic's Pedernales province in relation to heavy metal contents.	Two of the National Parks of the only Biosphere Reserve in the Caribbean Islands, the Jaragua-Bahoruco-Enriquillo reserve, occur mostly within the Pedernales province (Dominican Republic). In these National Parks, Jaragua and Bahoruco, almost every tropical forest ecosystem is represented, as are the land uses most common to the Dominican Republic. Despite soil being a key natural resource that needs to be considered in any sustainable development programme, the literature contains very little information on the soils of this region. In this study, we analysed 41 topsoil samples representing the main forest types and land uses of the province. The factors examined were fertility (OM, N, P, K) and heavy metal contents (Cu, Cr, Pb, Cd, Ni, Zn). Mean OM, N and total and available metal levels were almost invariably higher in the natural forest soils compared to those given over to human activities, especially cultivated soils. This difference suggests the uptake of metals by the crops and, to a lesser extent, by animals feeding on crop remains and grassland plants. This hypothesis is supported by high total and available metal contents, especially of Zn, Cu, Pb and, in smaller measure, of Cr recorded in the solid waste landfill of the city of Pedernales. It appears that the cutting down and burning practices of a nomad type of cultivation, as well as the pressures of intensive agriculture and livestock rearing have resulted in heavy metals bound to the soil's OM. We propose this is an important point to consider for the management of these lands.
Dynamics of CO2 partial pressure and CO2 outgassing in the lower reaches of the Xijiang River, a subtropical monsoon river in China.	The partial pressure of carbon dioxide (pCO(2)) in surface water was surveyed monthly at 6 sampling sites along the entire length of the lower reaches of the Xijiang River, a subtropical monsoon river in China, and at the mouths of its major tributaries, over a whole hydrological year from April 2005 to March 2006, to reveal the seasonal and spatial dynamics of pCO(2). Intensive sampling and measurements were also conducted at Wuzhou gauge station in June and July to investigate the impact of floodwater on pCO(2) and to further explore the relationship between river discharge and pCO(2). The pCO(2) levels were well above atmospheric equilibrium (380 microatm) during the entire survey period with obvious seasonal and spatial variations, ranging from 600 microatm to 7200 microatm for the mainstream and from 700 to 11000 microatm for tributaries, respectively. The pattern of pCO(2) seasonal variation across 6 sites was almost consistent with each other with little difference. The pCO(2) levels in the dry season were relatively low, with relatively slight temporal and spatial fluctuations that were predominantly controlled by in situ biogenic activities. While the pCO(2) in the wet season greatly varied with river discharge, both annual maximum and minimum pCO(2) levels occurring in this period. The much higher pCO(2) in the early wet season were mainly induced by increasing baseflow and interflow that flushed significant soil CO(2) into the streams, whereas the lower pCO(2) observed after floods from July to September, some even lower than pCO(2) levels in the dry season, potentially resulted from in situ plankton blooms. The annual minima pCO(2) levels occurring in this period were caused by the dilution effect of floodwater. There was no obvious downstream trend in pCO(2) variation during the whole survey period, probably a consequence of disturbance from tributaries or spatially distinct channel characteristics and water environments. Based on measurements, we estimate that the water-to-air CO(2) flux in the lower reaches of the Xijiang River is about 8.3-15.6 Mg C ha(-1)y(-1). The role of the Xijiang River as a net source of atmospheric CO(2) is undoubted.
The importance of amino acids in the adult diet of male tropical rainforest butterflies.	Adult diet is a major factor contributing to life history variation in the Lepidoptera. Amino acids derived from adult feeding, in particular, are suspected to be a major contribution to fitness, but this could be proven in only few species so far. Effects of amino acids in the diet of butterflies were experimentally investigated in 13 species from a Borneo rainforest community (using caged males without mating opportunity). Four species lived substantially longer when given a mix of amino acids additionally to water, sodium and sugar solutions. No significant phylogenetic pattern was found for effects of amino acid feeding, although none of six pierid species were among the taxa with significant effects. Species that do react to amino acids tend to be among the most long-lived taxa in the community, suggesting that amino acids are a key variable to attain long life spans. Weaker effects, or impacts on other fitness-related variables, cannot be excluded in the remaining taxa. Results indicate that adult amino acid intake may not be a rare strategy of few exotic taxa, but is, at least in non-seasonal tropical regions, a common life history trait in a substantial number of butterfly species.
Cold exposure and associated metabolic changes in adult tropical beetles exposed to fluctuating thermal regimes.	Environmental stress deleteriously affects every aspect of an ectotherm's biological function. Frequent exposure of terrestrial insects to temperature variation has thus led to the evolution of protective biochemical and physiological mechanisms. However, the physiological mechanisms underlying the positive impact of fluctuating thermal regimes (FTRs) on the fitness and survival of cold-exposed insects have not been studied. We have thus investigated the metabolic changes in adults of the beetle Alphitobius diaperinus in order to determine whether FTRs trigger the initiation of a metabolic response involving synthesis of protective compounds, such as free amino acids (FAAs) and polyols. The metabolic profile was analyzed during constant fluctuating thermal regimes (the beetles had daily pulses at higher temperatures that enabled them to recover) and compared with constant cold exposure and untreated controls. The increase of several essential amino acids (Lys, Iso, Leu, Phe and Trp) in cold-exposed beetles supports the conclusion that it results from the breakdown of proteins. Some FAAs have been shown to have cryoprotective properties in insects, but the relationship between FAAs, cold tolerance and survival has not yet been well defined. Instead of considering FAAs only as a part of the osmo- and cryoprotective arsenal, they should also be regarded as main factors involved in the multiple regulatory pathways activated during cold acclimation. Under FTRs, polyol accumulation probably contributes to the increased duration of survival in A. diaperinus.
Chemical cotton stalk destruction for maintenance of host-free periods for the control of overwintering boll weevil in tropical and subtropical climates.	In the Lower Rio Grande Valley (LRGV) of Texas, cotton regrows and produces fruit from undestroyed stalks throughout the winter, and in spring weevils from such locations become a serious threat. The success of the boll weevil eradication program, which was reintroduced in the LRGV in 2005, will be dependent on thorough stalk destruction following harvest. However, adverse weather conditions and conservation tillage often impede immediate and complete stalk destruction using typical tool implements, and alternative stalk control methods are needed. This study provides an examination of the efficacy for cotton stalk destruction of different herbicides (thifensulfuron-methyl + tribenuron-methyl, dicamba-diolamine, 2,4-D-dimethylammonium, flumioxazin, 2,4-DB-dimethylammonium and carfentrazone-ethyl) and their rates, spray volumes and application timings on shredded or standing cotton stalks after stripper or picker harvest. None of the tested herbicides, except 2,4-D-dimethylammonium, stopped post-harvest cotton regrowth and fruiting. 2,4-D-dimethylammonium sprayed once (0 or 7 days) after cotton was harvested at 1 lb AE acre(-1) (1.12 kg ha(-1)), in a spray volume of 10 gal water acre(-1) (93.5 L ha(-1)) with 5 mL L(-1) surfactant, was highly effective in stalk destruction (72-90%). The best results were achieved when the herbicide was applied immediately after the cotton was shredded, followed by standing stripper-harvested and standing picker-harvested cotton. 2,4-D-dimethylammonium applied twice, 0 and 14 (or 21) days after cotton harvest, was 100% effective in killing stalks, regardless of whether they were shredded or standing, or whether harvest was by stripper or picker. These findings showed that 2,4-D-dimethylammonium cotton stalk destruction eliminated food and reproductive opportunities for managing overwintering boll weevils [Anthonomus grandis grandis Boheman (Coleoptera: Curculionidae)].
Common subtropical and tropical nonpollen food sources of the boll weevil (Coleoptera: Curculionidae).	It is known that substantial boll weevil, Anthonomus grandis grandis Boheman, individuals can survive mild subtropical winters in some habitats, such as citrus orchards. Our study shows that endocarp of the fruit from prickly pear cactus, Opuntia engelmannii Salm-Dyck ex. Engel.; orange, Citrus sinensis L. Osbeck.; and grapefruit, Citrus paradisi Macfad., can sustain newly emerged adult boll weevils for >5 mo, which is the duration of the cotton-free season in the subtropical Lower Rio Grande Valley of Texas and other cotton-growing areas in the Western Hemisphere. Cotton, Gossypium hirsutum L., and the boll weevil occur in the same areas with one or all three plant species (or other citrus and Opuntia species that might also nourish boll weevils) from south Texas to Argentina. Although adult boll weevils did not produce eggs when fed exclusively on the endocarps of prickly pear, orange, or grapefruit, these plants make it possible for boll weevils to survive from one cotton growing season to the next, which could pose challenges to eradication efforts.
Tungiasis and myiasis.	Tungiasis and myiasis are common ectoparasitic infestations that occur in developing countries in the tropics, particularly where poverty and poor standards of basic hygiene exist. The growth in international travel to and from these regions has led to an increase in the presentation of these conditions in nonendemic countries. Despite recent progress in the treatment and prevention of tungiasis and myiasis, diagnosis can present a challenge to those unfamiliar with these conditions, especially when they present in nonendemic countries. Tungiasis is caused by the penetration of the female sand flea, Tunga penetrans, into the epidermis of the host. Myiasis is a parasitic infection of the skin and mucous membranes in which the larvae of Diptera insects penetrate healthy or altered skin depending on the species. Infestations are usually self-limited and present few complications. Social neglect and inadequate health behavior in economically depressed urban neighborhoods, however, may lead to secondary infections and complications.
Chromoblastomycosis.	Chromoblastomycosis is a chronic subcutaneous mycotic infection caused by pigmented or dematiaceous saprophytic moulds ubiquitous in the environment. The most common etiologic agents are Fonsecaea pedrosoi and Cladophialophora carrionii, both of which can be isolated from plant debris. The infection usually follows traumatic inoculation through penetrating thorn or splinter wounds. The fungal agents develop as small clusters of cells known as muriform bodies. Several months after the injury, painless papules or nodules appear in the affected area progressing to scaly and verrucose plaques. Direct examinations of skin scrapings or histopathologic study demonstrates the typical muriform bodies. Microbiologic culture is necessary for the correct determination of the etiologic agent. Itraconazole is the treatment of choice, often in combination with surgery. Even so, results are often unsatisfactory as patients present late to medical services because of lack of funds and the fact that the disease usually affects the main family earner.
Viral exanthems in the tropics.	Viral exanthems are a common problem in tropical regions, particularly affecting children. Most exanthems are transient and harmless, but some are potentially very dangerous. Pregnant women and malnourished or immunocompromised infants carry the greatest risk of adverse outcome. In this article, parvovirus B19; dengue and yellow fever; West Nile, Barmah Forest, Marburg, and Ebola viruses, and human herpesviruses; asymmetric periflexural exanthema of childhood; measles; rubella; enteroviruses; Lassa fever; and South American hemorrhagic fevers will be discussed.
Diagnostic value of endoscopy for the diagnosis of giardiasis and other intestinal diseases in patients with persistent diarrhea from tropical or subtropical areas.	Upper endoscopy has been suggested as a valuable tool in the diagnosis of giardiasis. The aim of this study was to compare two methods based on endoscopy, i.e. microscopy of duodenal fluid and histology, with a fluorescent-antibody assay for the detection of Giardia lamblia cysts in stool specimens. The role of endoscopy in the identification of other causes of chronic diarrhea acquired during travel abroad was also evaluated.
Tropical chronic pancreatitis and peripheral vascular disease. A case report.	It is well-known that subjects with diabetes resulting from tropical chronic pancreatitis are prone to diabetic microvascular complications (neuropathy, nephropathy and retinopathy). However, macrovascular complications (coronary artery disease, stroke and peripheral vessel disease) are rare, as these subjects are younger, leaner and have lower cholesterol levels.
Virus diversity of acute diarrhea in tropical highlands.	Infectious acute diarrhea (IAD) is an important health problem affecting a large number of Latin-American children. Several reports show that bacteria, parasites and virus are involved in the burden of this disease. Most reports reveal Rotavirus A as the responsible etiological agent, at the same time, there seems to be some correlation between IAD and seasonal weather changes. To learn about the type of microbial agents associated with IAD in children during mildly changing yearly climatic conditions, as found in a high altitude tropical city, and to identify the viral agents affecting this population, stool samples from 300 children under 5 years of age were studied throughout a one-year period. Bacteria and intestinal parasites were identified by routine methods, while viruses were detected and typed by EIA and PCR. 20.6% of the IAD studied was associated with bacteria; 9% with parasites and 40% with virus. Group C Rotavirus accounted for 20.2%, group A Rotavirus for 13% and Calicivirus 10%. During November-April (p < 0.007) more virus associated IAD was found, while bacteria (p < 0.03) or parasite (p < 0.00014) related IAD was prevalent from May to October. The mild seasonal weather changes don't seem to be associated with any other microbial agent.
DNA barcodes affirm that 16 species of apparently generalist tropical parasitoid flies (Diptera, Tachinidae) are not all generalists.	Many species of tachinid flies are viewed as generalist parasitoids because what is apparently a single species of fly has been reared from many species of caterpillars. However, an ongoing inventory of the tachinid flies parasitizing thousands of species of caterpillars in Area de Conservación Guanacaste, northwestern Costa Rica, has encountered >400 species of specialist tachinids with only a few generalists. We DNA-barcoded 2,134 flies belonging to what appeared to be the 16 most generalist of the reared tachinid morphospecies and encountered 73 mitochondrial lineages separated by an average of 4% sequence divergence. These lineages are supported by collateral ecological information and, where tested, by independent nuclear markers (28S and ITS1), and we therefore view these lineages as provisional species. Each of the 16 apparently generalist species dissolved into one of four patterns: (i) a single generalist species, (ii) a pair of morphologically cryptic generalist species, (iii) a complex of specialist species plus a generalist, or (iv) a complex of specialists with no remaining generalist. In sum, there remained 9 generalist species among the 73 mitochondrial lineages we analyzed, demonstrating that a generalist lifestyle is possible for a tropical caterpillar parasitoid fly. These results reinforce the emerging suspicion that estimates of global species richness are likely underestimates for parasitoids (which may constitute as much as 20% of all animal life) and that the strategy of being a tropical generalist parasitic fly may be yet more unusual than has been envisioned for tachinids.
Tradeoffs between income, biodiversity, and ecosystem functioning during tropical rainforest conversion and agroforestry intensification.	Losses of biodiversity and ecosystem functioning due to rainforest destruction and agricultural intensification are prime concerns for science and society alike. Potentially, ecosystems show nonlinear responses to land-use intensification that would open management options with limited ecological losses but satisfying economic gains. However, multidisciplinary studies to quantify ecological losses and socioeconomic tradeoffs under different management options are rare. Here, we evaluate opposing land use strategies in cacao agroforestry in Sulawesi, Indonesia, by using data on species richness of nine plant and animal taxa, six related ecosystem functions, and on socioeconomic drivers of agroforestry expansion. Expansion of cacao cultivation by 230% in the last two decades was triggered not only by economic market mechanisms, but also by rarely considered cultural factors. Transformation from near-primary forest to agroforestry had little effect on overall species richness, but reduced plant biomass and carbon storage by approximately 75% and species richness of forest-using species by approximately 60%. In contrast, increased land use intensity in cacao agroforestry, coupled with a reduction in shade tree cover from 80% to 40%, caused only minor quantitative changes in biodiversity and maintained high levels of ecosystem functioning while doubling farmers' net income. However, unshaded systems further increased income by approximately 40%, implying that current economic incentives and cultural preferences for new intensification practices put shaded systems at risk. We conclude that low-shade agroforestry provides the best available compromise between economic forces and ecological needs. Certification schemes for shade-grown crops may provide a market-based mechanism to slow down current intensification trends.
The latitudinal gradient in recent speciation and extinction rates of birds and mammals.	Although the tropics harbor greater numbers of species than do temperate zones, it is not known whether the rates of speciation and extinction also follow a latitudinal gradient. By sampling birds and mammals, we found that the distribution of the evolutionary ages of sister species-pairs of species in which each is the other's closest relative-adheres to a latitudinal gradient. The time to divergence for sister species is shorter at high latitudes and longer in the tropics. Birth-death models fitting these data estimate that the highest recent speciation and extinction rates occur at high latitudes and decline toward the tropics. These results conflict with the prevailing view that links high tropical diversity to elevated tropical speciation rates. Instead, our findings suggest that faster turnover at high latitudes contributes to the latitudinal diversity gradient.
Air pollution and hospital admissions for asthma in a subtropical city: Taipei, Taiwan.	This study was undertaken to determine whether there is an association between exposure to air pollutants levels and number of hospital admissions for asthma in Taipei, Taiwan. Hospital admissions for asthma and ambient air pollution data for Taipei were obtained for the period from 1996 through 2003. The relative risk of hospital admission for asthma was estimated using a case-crossover approach, controlling for weather variables, day of the week, seasonality, and long-term time trends. In the single-air-pollutant model, on warm days (> or = 25 degrees C) statistically significant positive associations were found for SO2, NO2, and CO levels with an increase in asthmatic admissions. On cool days (< 25 degrees C), all air pollutants were significantly associated with elevated asthma admissions except SO2. For the two-air-pollutant model, CO significantly increases hospital admissions for asthma in combination with each of the other four pollutants on warm days. On cool days, NO2 and O3 significantly elevated asthma rates in all the two-air-pollutant models. This study provides evidence that higher levels of ambient air pollutant concentrations increase the risk of hospital admissions for asthma.
Clinical field testing of vulcanized Jaipur rubber feet for trans-tibial amputees in low-income countries.	The purpose of this study was to check out the performance and durability of vulcanized Jaipur rubber feet in tropical areas of the developing world. Forty-one MUKTI and 40 NISHA feet were followed for 16 (8-17) months. The user compliance was high and nearly all were satisfied. Failure of the prosthetic foot with the need for exchange at the end of the study amounted to 27% (22/81), which is equivalent to a mixed series of rubber feet previously reported (Jansen et al. 2006b). Failures were mostly related to skin fracture and gliding between sponge rubber layers of the heel block.
Trends in antimicrobial resistance in Campylobacter spp. causing traveler's diarrhea.	The aim of this study was to analyze the evolution of the levels of resistance to nine antimicrobial agents in clinical isolates of Campylobacter spp. causing traveler's diarrhea during the period from 1993 to 2003. The antimicrobial resistance levels to ampicillin, amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, erythromycin, gentamicin, clindamicin, nalidixic acid and ciprofloxacin were established by the method of Kirby-Bauer. Two subperiods (1993-1998 and 1999-2003) were chosen to compare the evolution of the levels of antimicrobial resistance. Mantel-Haenszel or Fisher's exact test was performed to determine statistical significance. High levels of resistance to four out of nine antimicrobial agents tested were detected: ampicillin (66.3%), nalidixic acid (52.2%), ciprofloxacin (46.7%), and tetracycline (42.4%). In addition, resistance levels of 20.6% to amoxicillin plus clavulanic acid were detected. An increase in the resistance levels between the two subperiods analyzed for those five antimicrobial agents was observed. This increase was statistically significant for ampicillin, nalidixic acid, and ciprofloxacin. Two cases of therapeutic failure during treatment with ciprofloxacin were detected. The level of resistance to the most commonly used antibacterial agents in the developing world is increasing in Campylobacter spp., the increase in the resistance to quinolones being of special concern.
Expatriates in high-UV index and tropical countries: sun exposure and protection behavior in 9,416 French adults.	Overexposure to sunlight during long stays in tropical countries can reveal short- and long-term harmful effects on the skin of Caucasian residents, especially for fair-skinned subjects. The aim of this study was to describe sun exposure and sun protection behaviors during lifetime among French adults who declared having experienced at least one expatriation period in tropical or high-sun index areas for a duration of more than three consecutive months.
Evaluation of targeted drenching using Famacha method in Creole goat: reduction of anthelmintic use, and effects on kid production and pasture contamination.	Haemonchus infection was monitored for 2 years (six kidding periods) in a Creole goat flock grazing under oceanic-tropical climate. Two hundred and thirty individual does were involved from late pregnancy to weaning. Anaemia diagnoses using Famacha method and packed cell volume (PCV) were compared. The best agreement (Kappa=0.33) was found if anaemia was declared when PCV values fell to 16 or below and Famacha score was 4 or 5. Drenching policy according to Famacha method was compared to systematic drenching policy. Using the Famacha method allowed a dramatic decrease in anthelmintic use during the periparturient period (0.57 individual dose instead of three doses for the control). The proportion of the nematode population on the pasture not derived from previously-treated goats (in refugia) was estimated to about 79% (65-90%) of the pasture contamination derived from the Famacha group. On the average, goats which needed to be drenched produced less than the control or undrenched goats (kid average daily gain was decreased by about 15%). The repeatability of the need for drenching individual does was estimated to 0.41. The older goats or the goats in poorer body condition at kidding needed more drenching than the younger animals and the animals in good body condition. Consequently the Famacha method may be used as an additional tool for the culling management.
Imported tropical infections]	The rising number of our tourists, who spend their holiday in tropical countries together with the rising immigration from the countries with low hygienic standard, increases the risk of import of some tropical infections. The most common are diarrhoeal diseases; to the more serious belong febrile infections (malaria, typhoid fever, ricketsioses), that without early treatment can be fatal. The diagnosis is based on the precise history, physical, laboratory and special microbiological examination. Among the laboratory methods of the first choice belong the thin smear, the thick blood film, blood count and differential counting, haemocultivation, and detection of inflammatory markers. Finding of the high eosinophilia suggests helmintosis (schistosomosis, filariosis, cystecerkosis, hydatiodosis). Though the tourists become better informed on the health risks during the stay in tropical countries, it is still possible to encounter persons living for high risk countries without proper vaccination and antimalarian prophylaxis.
Contributions of Anopheles larval control to malaria suppression in tropical Africa: review of achievements and potential.	Malaria vector control targeting the larval stages of mosquitoes was applied successfully against many species of Anopheles (Diptera: Culicidae) in malarious countries until the mid-20th Century. Since the introduction of DDT in the 1940s and the associated development of indoor residual spraying (IRS), which usually has a more powerful impact than larval control on vectorial capacity, the focus of malaria prevention programmes has shifted to the control of adult vectors. In the Afrotropical Region, where malaria is transmitted mainly by Anopheles funestus Giles and members of the Anopheles gambiae Giles complex, gaps in information on larval ecology and the ability of An. gambiae sensu lato to exploit a wide variety of larval habitats have discouraged efforts to develop and implement larval control strategies. Opportunities to complement adulticiding with other components of integrated vector management, along with concerns about insecticide resistance, environmental impacts, rising costs of IRS and logistical constraints, have stimulated renewed interest in larval control of malaria vectors. Techniques include environmental management, involving the temporary or permanent removal of anopheline larval habitats, as well as larviciding with chemical or biological agents. This present review covers large-scale trials of anopheline larval control methods, focusing on field studies in Africa conducted within the past 15 years. Although such studies are limited in number and scope, their results suggest that targeting larvae, particularly in human-made habitats, can significantly reduce malaria transmission in appropriate settings. These approaches are especially suitable for urban areas, where larval habitats are limited, particularly when applied in conjunction with IRS and other adulticidal measures, such as the use of insecticide treated bednets.
Comment on "Why are there so many species of herbivorous insects in tropical rainforests?".	Novotny et al. (Reports, 25 August 2006, p. 1115) argued that higher herbivore diversity in tropical forests results from greater phylogenetic diversity of host plants, not from higher host specificity. However, if host specificity is related to host abundance, differences in relative host abundance between tropical and temperate regions may limit any general conclusion that herbivore diversity scales directly with host-plant diversity.
Effects of flowering tree density on the mating system and gene flow in Shorea leprosula (Dipterocarpaceae) in Peninsular Malaysia.	Pristine tropical rainforests in Southeast Asia have rich species diversity and are important habitats for many plant species. However, the extent of these forests has declined in recent decades and they have become fragmented due to human activities. These developments may reduce the genetic diversity of species within them and, consequently, the species' ability to adapt to environmental changes. Our objective in the study presented here was to clarify the effect of tree density on the genetic diversity and gene flow patterns of Shorea leprosula Miq. populations in Peninsular Malaysia. For this purpose, we related genetic diversity and pollen flow parameters of seedling populations in study plots to the density of mature trees in their vicinity. The results show that gene diversity and allelic richness were not significantly correlated to the mature tree density. However, the number of rare alleles among the seedlings and the selfing rates of the mother trees were negatively correlated with the density of the adult trees. Furthermore, in a population with high mature tree density pollination distances were frequently <200 m, but in populations with low adult tree density the distances were longer. These findings suggest that the density of flowering trees affects selfing rates, gene flow and, thus, the genetic diversity of S. leprosula populations. We also found an individual S. leprosula tree with a unique reproductive system, probably apomictic, mating system.
Karyotype with 210 chromosomes in guaraná (Paullinia cupana 'Sorbilis').	The genus Paullinia includes the economically important P. cupana, known as guaraná in Brazil and more recently in the world market. Native Americans of the Maué and Andirá tribes cultivated P. cupana 'Sorbilis' in central Amazon, and the Barés cultivated the 'Typica' variety in the upper Negro River (Brazil). Cytological studies in the Sapindaceae family have concentrated on the diversity in number (from 2n = 14 to 96) and size of the chromosomes. In Paullinia, seven species have been karyotyped and all show 2n = 24. Meristem maceration, cellular dissociation and air-drying techniques were used for cytogenetic preparations and DNA content was determined by flow cytometry. Chromosome characterization and DNA content of Paullinia cupana Kunth 'Sorbilis' (Mart.) Ducke (Sapindaceae) were studied. The high chromosome number (2n = 210) fall into two cytomorphological groups: (a) a metacentric and submetacentric group showing 25 sets of three pairs of chromosomes (2-76); (b) a group containing only acrocentric showing 12 sets of two pairs of chromosomes (82-105), a homologous submetacentric pair (1) and an acrocentric pair (81). Mean nuclear DNA content of guaraná was 2C = 22.8 pg. A karyogram was set up showing a high chromosome number complement.
Septic arthritis in tropical environment. 176 cases report in Brazzaville]	We report epidemiologic, clinic, para clinic, therapeutic and evolution aspects of septic arthritis in African tropical zone.
Atmospheric deposition of nitrogen at five subtropical forested sites in South China.	Elevated concentrations of reactive nitrogen (N) in precipitation have been reported for many cities in China. Due to increased use of fossil fuels and expansion in agriculture, further increases in deposition of ammonia (NHx) and reactive N oxides (NOy) are predicted. Increased deposition of reactive N is likely to affect N dynamics and N runoff in forest ecosystems. Yet, in China little work has been done to quantify the levels of atmospheric N deposition in such systems. Here, we assess the deposition of inorganic N (ammonium, NH4+ and nitrate, NO3-) for five subtropical forest ecosystems in remote and urban areas of South China. Annual volume-weighted concentrations in bulk precipitation range from 0.18 to 1.55 mg NH4+ -N L(-1) and from 0.12 to 0.74 mg NO3- -N L(-1). These values are large and several times greater than those reported for remote sites of the world. The fluxes of total inorganic N (TIN) in wet-only deposition range from 0.8 to 2.3 g N m(-2) yr(-1), with NH4+ -N contributing 54% to 77%. Both the tree canopy and the ground vegetation layer are important in determining the net N flux reaching the forest floor, but the net effect varies from site to site. At TieShanPing (TSP), close to Chongqing city, and at CaiJiaTang (CJT), near Shaoshan (Hunan province), the canopy represents a net source of N, probably due to dry deposition. At the other three sites (LiuChongGuan (LCG), LeiGongShan (LGS), both in Guizhou province, and LiuXiHe (LXH) in Guangdong), a net loss of reactive N from precipitation water occurs in the canopy, probably due to uptake processes. The total annual atmospheric TIN load is estimated to range from at least 0.8 g N m(-2) yr(-1) to 4.0 g N m(-2) yr(-1), with a considerable contribution from dry deposition. Concentrations and fluxes of inorganic N in tree canopy throughfall are greater than those in North America. Also the contribution of NH4+ -N to TIN fluxes in throughfall (40% to 70%) is greater than in North America. Our sites have N deposition levels and NH4+ -N contributions similar to those found in Northwest and central Europe. The TIN loads at TSP and CJT far exceed 2.5 g N m(-2) yr(-1), which is the N deposition load above which NO3- leaching is expected in temperate and boreal forests.
Microfossil evidence for pre-Columbian maize dispersals in the neotropics from San Andres, Tabasco, Mexico.	The history of maize (Zea mays L.) is one of the most debated topics in New World archaeology. Molecular and genetic studies indicate that maize domestication took place in tropical southwest Mexico. Although archaeological evidence for the evolution of maize from its wild ancestor teosinte has yet to be found in that poorly studied region, other research combining paleoecology and archaeology is documenting the nature and timing of maize domestication and dispersals. Here we report a phytolith analysis of sediments from San Andrés, Tabasco, that confirms the spread of maize cultivation to the tropical Mexican Gulf Coast >7,000 years ago ( approximately 7,300 calendar years before present). We review the different methods used in sampling, identifying, and dating fossil maize remains and compare their strengths and weaknesses. Finally, we examine how San Andrés amplifies the present evidence for widespread maize dispersals into Central and South America. Multiple data sets from many sites indicate that maize was brought under cultivation and domesticated and had spread rapidly out of its domestication cradle in tropical southwest Mexico by the eighth millennium before the present.
Trends and challenges in the effective and sustainable control of Haemonchus contortus infection in sheep. Review.	Haemonchosis, with its very wide distribution, has become a very important production constraint in sheep farms in tropical, subtropical and temperate regions worldwide. Various intrinsic and extrinsic factors determine the survival of Haemonchus contortus and hence the development of the disease in the animal. In general, control of gastrointestinal nematode infestation in sheep relies heavily on anthelmintic treatments. However, the indiscriminate use of these drugs has led to the widespread emergence of drug resistant strains of parasites, that has necessitated the development and use of various parasite control methods such as grazing management, biological agents and vaccines and the selection of resistant breeds of animals, with or without moderate use of anthelmintics. The ultimate goal of such control programs is to enhance productivity, while minimising risks regarding drug resistance and consumer and environmental concerns. This review attempts to highlight the different methods employed in the control of haemonchosis in sheep and the practical limitations associated with both control programs and the internal and external factors associated with the parasite and its microenvironment.
Piggery wastewater treatment in a tropical climate: biological and chemical treatment options.	A novel biological treatment system was developed for the treatment of piggery wastewater under tropical conditions. It consisted of three consecutive sponge-based floating biofilters. The Upflow Anaerobic/Anoxic/Aerobic Floating Filter (UA3FF) system was shown to be effective with carbonaceous and, particularly, nitrogenous matter. The rationale for the processes occurring in anoxic-aerobic reactors was based on the concept of nitritation-denitritation rather than nitrification-denitrification. The N-related microbial communities manipulated by changing DO concentration and hydraulic retention time were able to effect a considerable increase in the total and specific N-removal (70% and 0.6 kg N m(-3) filter media per day, respectively) as compared to data reported elsewhere. Fluorescence In Situ Hybridization and Polymerase Chain Reaction amplification of ammonia monooxygenase (amoA) gene were used to study interrelationships between N-related microbial groups in the system. Microbiological data was interpreted in terms of operational behavior and performance of the reactors. The N-removal efficiency of the biological UA3FF system was compared with a combined biological/physicochemical system based on (a) biological anaerobic pretreatment followed by (b) a chemical precipitation (CP) and (c) an air stripping. Both systems were scrutinized as to operational advantages and costs. The treatment options could produce effluent of a high quality (202 mg COD l(-1), 126 total-N l(-1) and 89 mg COD l(-1) 48 total-N l(-1) in the biological and combined biological/physico-chemical treatment options, respectively) amenable for the subsequent treatment at the municipal facilities. However, the UA3FF biological treatment system was superior to the combined system by a factor of 20 as far as costs are concerned.
Necessity of chance: biological roulettes and biodiversity.	Chance plays an important role in the dynamics of biodiversity. It is largely responsible for the spontaneous processes leading to biological diversification. The mechanisms behind chance belong to two categories: on the one hand, those outside of biological systems, and thus belonging to their environment, on the other hand, those endogenous to these systems. These last mechanisms are present at all levels of the hierarchical organization of the living world, from genes to ecosystems. We propose calling them 'biological roulettes'. Like roulettes in casinos, they could be deterministic processes functioning in chaotic domains and producing results that look as though they had been generated by random processes. The spontaneous appearance and natural selection of these roulettes have led to living systems potentially adapted to new environmental conditions not encountered before. They may even have permitted some of them to survive major upheavals. Moreover, palaeontological data show that the rate of biological diversification accelerates and that living systems become more and more complex over time. That may also increase their resilience. It can be also the consequence of the appearance and the selection of 'biological roulettes' and of chance they generate. They are at the same time products and engines of the evolution. Without them, life would have disappeared from the Earth a long time ago. Thus, they are of primary importance.
Conservation ecology: area trumps mobility in fragment bird extinctions.	Tropical forest understory birds are highly sensitive to habitat fragmentation. Recent results from a monumental Amazonian fragmentation experiment show that habitat needs of these specialized birds make mobility a liability, leading to their extinctions from forest fragments.
Drifting propagules and receding swamps: genetic footprints of mangrove recolonization and dispersal along tropical coasts.	Two issues that have captured the attention of tropical plant evolutionary biologists in recent years are the relative role of long distance dispersal (LDD) over vicariance in determining plant distributions and debate about the extent that Quaternary climatic changes affected tropical species. Propagules of some mangrove species are assumed to be capable of LDD due to their ability to float and survive for long periods of time in salt water. Mangrove species responded to glaciations with a contraction of their range. Thus, widespread mangrove species are an ideal system to study LDD and recolonization in the tropics. We present phylogenetic and phylogeographic analyses based on internal transcribed spacers region (ITS) sequences, chloroplast DNA (cpDNA), and amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) of genomic DNA that demonstrate recent LDD across the Atlantic, rejecting the hypothesis of vicariance for the widespread distribution of the black mangrove (Avicennia germinans). Northern latitude populations likely became extinct during the late Quaternary due to frosts and aridification; these locations were recolonized afterward from southern populations. In some low latitude regions populations went extinct or were drastically reduced during the Quaternary because of lack of suitable habitat as sea levels changed. Our analyses show that low latitude Pacific populations of A. germinans harbor more diversity and reveal deeper divergence than Atlantic populations. Implications for our understanding of phylogeography of tropical species are discussed.
Esterases and putative lipases from tropical isolates of Aureobasidium pullulans.	Esterases and lipases have been studied in a number of fungi, though very little is known about esterases from Aureobasidium pullulans especially from the African tropics. In this study, forty-two Zimbabwean isolates were screened for lipase activity on tributyrin agar. Extracellular esterase activities of seven selected isolates were studied under varying conditions using para-nitrophenol acetate as substrate. Twenty isolates (48%) showed lipolytic activity; sixteen showed negative results for lipase activity while the rest showed weak activities. Esterase activities in broth cultures ranged from 0.011-0.223 mmol/microg protein/min while activities ranged from 1.5-12.8 U/ml under solid state fermentation. The esterases were optimally active at pH 7.6-8.0, showed a temperature optimum of 35 degrees C and retained more than 50% activity at temperatures up to 60 degrees C and at pH 4.0-7.0 after 150 min. Enzyme production was optimal after 5-6 days with diammonium hydrogen phosphate as nitrogen source. Isolates showed variations in preference for carbon source for esterase production. The A. pullulans esterases differed from most fungal esterases in that they are optimally active in alkaline conditions and are active over a broad pH range.
The adaptive significance of ontogenetic colour change in a tropical python.	Ontogenetic colour change is typically associated with changes in size, vulnerability or habitat, but assessment of its functional significance requires quantification of the colour signals from the receivers' perspective. The tropical python, Morelia viridis, is an ideal species to establish the functional significance of ontogenetic colour change. Neonates hatch either yellow or red and both the morphs change to green with age. Here, we show that colour change from red or yellow to green provides camouflage from visually oriented avian predators in the different habitats used by juveniles and adults. This reflects changes in foraging behaviour and vulnerability as individuals mature and provides a rare demonstration of the adaptive value of ontogenetic colour change.
Changes in biodiversity and ecosystem function during the restoration of a tropical forest in south China.	Tropical forests continue to vanish rapidly, but few long-term studies have ever examined if and how the lost forests can be restored. Based on a 45-year restoration study in south China, we found that a tropical rain forest, once completely destroyed, could not recover naturally without deliberate restoration efforts. We identified two kinds of thresholds that must be overcome with human ameliorative measures before the ecosystem was able to recover. The first threshold was imposed primarily by extreme physical conditions such as exceedingly high surface temperature and impoverished soil, while the second was characterized by a critical level of biodiversity and a landscape context that accommodates dispersal and colonization processes. Our three treatment catchments (un-restored barren land, single-species plantation, and mixed-forest stand) exhibited dramatically different changes in biodiversity and ecosystem functioning over 4 decades. The mixed forest, having the highest level of biodiversity and ecosystem functioning, possesses several major properties of tropical rain forest. These findings may have important implications for the restoration of many severely degraded or lost tropical forest ecosystems.
Hematocrit change in tropical scuba divers.	Direct evidence that dehydration results from scuba diving is scanty. Increased hematocrit (Ht) is a commonly used proxy measure for dehydration. This study sought evidence that an increase in Ht occurs over the course of a scuba dive in tropical conditions. As a secondary outcome, evidence was sought that the degree of Ht increase is correlated to pressure exposure.
Travellers to high UV-index countries: sun-exposure behaviour in 7822 French adults.	Travel health information includes warning on sun exposure, particularly for fair-skinned individuals travelling to tropical countries.
Dengue fever and pregnancy - a review and comment.	The increasing incidence of dengue with the concomitant rise in travel during pregnancy makes it likely that a pregnant woman will plan travel to or present after travel to endemic areas.
Effects of azadirachtin, abamectin, and spinosad on sweetpotato whitefly (Homoptera: Aleyrodidae) on tomato plants under laboratory and greenhouse conditions in the humid tropics.	Direct and residual toxicity of NeemAzal-T/S (azadirachtin), Success (spinosad), and abamectin was tested against different life stages of sweetpotato whitefly, Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) (Homoptera: Aleyrodidae), under air-conditioned laboratory conditions and in a tropical net greenhouse. NeemAzal-T/S and abamectin deterred the settling of adults on tomato, Lycopersicon esculentum Mill (Solanaceae), plants and consequently reduced egg deposition. No such effect was detected for Success. All three pesticides influenced egg hatch. Effects of NeemAzal-T/ S were significantly altered if applied to different-aged eggs (1, 3, and 5 d old). In contrast, abamectin-treated eggs failed to hatch at any given age class. All three products caused heavy mortality of the three nymphal stages of B. tabaci, with the first instars being most susceptible, abamectin-treated nymphs died within 24 h postapplication. In contrast, 100% nymphal mortality with NeemAzal-T/S and Success was reached 6-9 d postapplication. abamectin caused 100% immature mortality at all residue ages (1, 5, 10, and 15 d) in the laboratory and greenhouse as well. Persistence of Success was comparably high in the laboratory, but in the greenhouse a faster decline of activity was evident by increased egg deposition, egg hatch, and reduced rates of immature mortality. Toxicity of NeemAzal-T/S however gradually declined under greenhouse conditions with time (5 d) postapplication. The findings are discussed within the context of integrated management of whitefly under protected cultivation in the humid tropics.
Evolution of viviparity in warm-climate lizards: an experimental test of the maternal manipulation hypothesis.	The maternal manipulation hypothesis for the evolution of reptilian viviparity has been claimed to apply to any situation where gravid females are able to maintain body temperatures different from those available in external nests, but empirical data that support this hypothesis are very limited. Here, we tested this hypothesis using gravid females of a warm-climate lizard, Mabuya multifasciata, by subjecting them to five thermal regimes for the whole gestation period. We found gravid females selected lower body temperatures and thermoregulated more precisely than did nongravid females. Offspring produced in different treatments differed in head size, limb length and sprint speed, but not in overall body size or mass. Variation in morphological traits of offspring was induced primarily by extreme temperatures. Sprint speed of offspring was more likely affected by the mean but not by the variance of gestation temperatures. Gravid females maintained more stable body temperatures than did nongravid females not because these temperatures resulted in the optimization of offspring phenotypes but because the range of temperatures optimal for embryonic development was relatively narrow. Our data conform to the main predictions from the maternal manipulation hypothesis that females should adjust thermoregulation during pregnancy to provide optimal thermal conditions for developing embryos and that phenotypic traits forged by maternal thermoregulation should enhance offspring fitness.
Rehabilitation in a warm versus a colder climate in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: a randomized study.	The primary aim of this study was to evaluate if pulmonary rehabilitation in a subtropical climate during winter had better long-term effects on health-related quality of life and symptoms of anxiety and depression than an equivalent pulmonary rehabilitation program in a colder climate. The secondary aim was to assess short-term differences in the same outcomes.
Drought sensitivity shapes species distribution patterns in tropical forests.	Although patterns of tree species distributions along environmental gradients have been amply documented in tropical forests, mechanisms causing these patterns are seldom known. Efforts to evaluate proposed mechanisms have been hampered by a lack of comparative data on species' reactions to relevant axes of environmental variation. Here we show that differential drought sensitivity shapes plant distributions in tropical forests at both regional and local scales. Our analyses are based on experimental field assessments of drought sensitivity of 48 species of trees and shrubs, and on their local and regional distributions within a network of 122 inventory sites spanning a rainfall gradient across the Isthmus of Panama. Our results suggest that niche differentiation with respect to soil water availability is a direct determinant of both local- and regional-scale distributions of tropical trees. Changes in soil moisture availability caused by global climate change and forest fragmentation are therefore likely to alter tropical species distributions, community composition and diversity.
Patterns of loss and regeneration of tropical dry forest in Madagascar: the social institutional context.	Loss of tropical forests and changes in land-use/land-cover are of growing concern worldwide. Although knowledge exists about the institutional context in which tropical forest loss is embedded, little is known about the role of social institutions in influencing regeneration of tropical forests. In the present study we used Landsat images from southern Madagascar from three different years (1984, 1993 and 2000) and covering 5500 km(2), and made a time-series analysis of three distinct large-scale patterns: 1) loss of forest cover, 2) increased forest cover, and 3) stable forest cover. Institutional characteristics underlying these three patterns were analyzed, testing the hypothesis that forest cover change is a function of strength and enforcement of local social institutions. The results showed a minor decrease of 7% total forest cover in the study area during the whole period 1984-2000, but an overall net increase of 4% during the period 1993-2000. The highest loss of forest cover occurred in a low human population density area with long distances to markets, while a stable forest cover occurred in the area with highest population density and good market access. Analyses of institutions revealed that loss of forest cover occurred mainly in areas characterized by insecure property rights, while areas with well-defined property rights showed either regenerating or stable forest cover. The results thus corroborate our hypothesis. The large-scale spontaneous regeneration dominated by native endemic species appears to be a result of a combination of changes in precipitation, migration and decreased human population and livestock grazing pressure, but under conditions of maintained and well-defined property rights. Our study emphasizes the large capacity of a semi-arid system to spontaneously regenerate, triggered by decreased pressures, but where existing social institutions mitigate other drivers of deforestation and alternative land-use.
Seasonal water stress tolerance and habitat associations within four neotropical tree genera.	We investigated the relationship between habitat association and physiological performance in four congeneric species pairs exhibiting contrasting distributions between seasonally flooded and terra firme habitats in lowland tropical rain forests of French Guiana, including Virola and Iryanthera (Myristicaceae), Symphonia (Clusiaceae), and Eperua (Caesalpiniaceae). We analyzed 10-year data sets of mapped and measured saplings (stems >150 cm in height and <10 cm diameter at breast height [dbh]) and trees (stems > or =10 cm dbh) across 37.5 ha of permanent plots covering a 300-ha zone, within which seasonally flooded areas (where the water table never descends below 1 m) have been mapped. Additionally, we tested the response of growth, survival, and leaf functional traits of these species to drought and flood stress in a controlled experiment. We tested for habitat preference using a modification of the torus translation method. Strong contrasting associations of the species pairs of Iryanthera, Virola, and Symphonia were observed at the sapling stage, and these associations strengthened for the tree stage. Neither species of Eperua was significantly associated with flooded habitats at the sapling stage, but E. falcata was significantly and positively associated with flooded forests at the tree stage, and trees of E. grandiflora were found almost exclusively in nonflooded habitats. Differential performance provided limited explanatory support for the observed habitat associations, with only congeners of Iryanthera exhibiting divergent sapling survival and tree growth. Seedlings of species associated with flooded forest tended to have higher photosynthetic capacity than their congeners at field capacity. In addition, they tended to have the largest reductions in leaf gas exchange and growth rate in response to experimental drought stress and the least reductions in response to experimental inundation. The corroboration of habitat association with differences in functional traits and, to a lesser extent, measures of performance provides an explanation for the regional coexistence of these species pairs. We suggest that specialization to seasonally flooded habitats may explain patterns of adaptive radiation in many tropical tree genera and thereby provide a substantial contribution to regional tree diversity.
Seasonal characteristics of CO2 fluxes from the paddy ecosystem in subtropical region]	CO2 fluxes from paddy ecosystem in subtropical hilly region were measured continuously using eddy covariance technique. Based on data rejecting, correcting and filling, the daily and annual CO2 fluxes were calculated from the instantaneous values, respectively. The objectives were to investigate the variation of CO2 fluxes on seasonal temporal scale, analyze the relationship between CO2 fluxes and environmental factors, and to quantify the annual net ecosystem exchange (NEE) from the paddy ecosystem. Results show the values of GPP, R(eco) and NEE are higher from Jun. to Sep. and lower in the other months. The NEE from May to Sep. accounted for above 80% of the annual value and is crucial to the whole annual value. Photosynthetically active radiation (PAR) and mean daily air temperature (T(a)) were two main influential factors for controlling the seasonal trend of GPP and NEE and could be described by binary linear functions, respectively. The annual NEE in paddy ecosystem was 2 475.6 g/(m2 x a). This is showed that paddy ecosystem was a carbon sink for the atmosphere in subtropical region.
Bee community shifts with landscape context in a tropical countryside.	The ongoing scientific controversy over a putative "global pollination crisis" underscores the lack of understanding of the response of bees (the most important taxon of pollinators) to ongoing global land-use changes. We studied the effects of distance to forest, tree management, and floral resources on bee communities in pastures (the dominant land-use type) in southern Costa Rica. Over two years, we sampled bees and floral resources in 21 pastures at three distance classes from a large (approximately 230-ha) forest patch and of three common types: open pasture; pasture with remnant trees; and pasture with live fences. We found no consistent differences in bee diversity or abundance with respect to pasture management or floral resources. Bee community composition, however, was strikingly different at forest edges as compared to deforested countryside only a few hundred meters from forest. At forest edges, native social stingless bees (Apidae: Meliponini) comprised approximately 50% of the individuals sampled, while the alien honeybee Apis mellifera made up only approximately 5%. Away from forests, meliponines dropped to approximately 20% of sampled bees, whereas Apis increased to approximately 45%. Meliponine bees were also more speciose at forest edge sites than at a distance from forest, their abundance decreased with continuous distance to the nearest forest patch, and their species richness was correlated with the proportion of forest cover surrounding sample sites at scales from 200 to 1200 m. Meliponines and Apis together comprise the eusocial bee fauna of the study area and are unique in quickly recruiting foragers to high-quality resources. The diverse assemblage of native meliponine bees covers a wide range of body sizes and flower foraging behavior not found in Apis, and populations of many bee species (including Apis), are known to fluctuate considerably from year to year. Thus, the forest-related changes in eusocial bee communities we found may have important implications for: (1) sustaining a diverse bee fauna in tropical countryside; (2) ensuring the effective pollination of a diverse native plant community; and (3) the efficiency and stability of agricultural pollination, particularly for short-time-scale, mass-flowering crops such as coffee.
Controls over foliar N:P ratios in tropical rain forests.	Correlations between foliar nutrient concentrations and soil nutrient availability have been found in multiple ecosystems. These relationships have led to the use of foliar nutrients as an index of nutrient status and to the prediction of broadscale patterns in ecosystem processes. More recently, a growing interest in ecological stoichiometry has fueled multiple analyses of foliar nitrogen:phosphorus (N:P) ratios within and across ecosystems. These studies have observed that N:P values are generally elevated in tropical forests when compared to higher latitude ecosystems, adding weight to a common belief that tropical forests are generally N rich and P poor. However, while these broad generalizations may have merit, their simplicity masks the enormous environmental heterogeneity that exists within the tropics; such variation includes large ranges in soil fertility and climate, as well as the highest plant species diversity of any biome. Here we present original data on foliar N and P concentrations from 150 mature canopy tree species in Costa Rica and Brazil, and combine those data with a comprehensive new literature synthesis to explore the major sources of variation in foliar N:P values within the tropics. We found no relationship between N:P ratios and either latitude or mean annual precipitation within the tropics alone. There is, however, evidence of seasonal controls; in our Costa Rica sites, foliar N:P values differed by 25% between wet and dry seasons. The N:P ratios do vary with soil P availability and/or soil order, but there is substantial overlap across coarse divisions in soil type, and perhaps the most striking feature of the data set is variation at the species level. Taken as a whole, our results imply that the dominant influence on foliar N:P ratios in the tropics is species variability and that, unlike marine systems and perhaps many other terrestrial biomes, the N:P stoichiometry of tropical forests is not well constrained. Thus any use of N:P ratios in the tropics to infer larger-scale ecosystem processes must comprehensively account for the diversity of any given site and recognize the broad range in nutrient requirements, even at the local scale.
Assessment of febrile illness in the returned traveller.	Fever is among the most frequently reported problems in returning travellers.
A phylogenetic perspective on elevational species richness patterns in Middle American treefrogs: why so few species in lowland tropical rainforests?	Differences in species richness at different elevations are widespread and important for conservation, but the causes of these patterns remain poorly understood. Here, we use a phylogenetic perspective to address the evolutionary and biogeographic processes that underlie elevational diversity patterns within a region. We focus on a diverse but well-studied fauna of tropical amphibians, the hylid frogs of Middle America. Middle American treefrogs show a "hump-shaped" pattern of species richness (common in many organisms and regions), with the highest regional diversity at intermediate elevations. We reconstructed phylogenetic relationships among 138 species by combining new and published sequence data from 10 genes and then used this phylogeny to infer evolutionary rates and patterns. The high species richness of intermediate elevations seems to result from two factors. First, a tendency for montane clades to have higher rates of diversification. Second, the early colonization of montane regions, leaving less time for speciation to build up species richness in lowland regions (including tropical rainforests) that have been colonized more recently. This "time-for-speciation" effect may explain many diversity patterns and has important implications for conservation. The results also imply that local-scale environmental factors alone may be insufficient to explain the high species richness of lowland tropical rainforests, and that diversification rates are lower in earth's most species-rich biome.
Long-term patterns in tropical reforestation: plant community composition and aboveground biomass accumulation.	Primary tropical forests are renowned for their high biodiversity and carbon storage, and considerable research has documented both species and carbon losses with deforestation and agricultural land uses. Economic drivers are now leading to the abandonment of agricultural lands, and the area in secondary forests is increasing. We know little about how long it takes for these ecosystems to achieve the structural and compositional characteristics of primary forests. In this study, we examine changes in plant species composition and aboveground biomass during eight decades of tropical secondary succession in Puerto Rico, and compare these patterns with primary forests. Using a well-replicated chronosequence approach, we sampled primary forests and secondary forests established 10, 20, 30, 60, and 80 years ago on abandoned pastures. Tree species composition in all secondary forests was different from that of primary forests and could be divided into early (10-, 20-, and 30-year) vs. late (60- and 80-year) successional phases. The highest rates of aboveground biomass accumulation occurred in the first 20 years, with rates of C sequestration peaking at 6.7 +/- 0.5 Mg C x ha(-1) x yr(-1). Reforestation of pastures resulted in an accumulation of 125 Mg C/ha in aboveground standing live biomass over 80 years. The 80 year-old secondary forests had greater biomass than the primary forests, due to the replacement of woody species by palms in the primary forests. Our results show that these new ecosystems have different species composition, but similar species richness, and significant potential for carbon sequestration, compared to remnant primary forests.
Decelerating growth in tropical forest trees.	The impacts of global change on tropical forests remain poorly understood. We examined changes in tree growth rates over the past two decades for all species occurring in large (50-ha) forest dynamics plots in Panama and Malaysia. Stem growth rates declined significantly at both forests regardless of initial size or organizational level (species, community or stand). Decreasing growth rates were widespread, occurring in 24-71% of species at Barro Colorado Island, Panama (BCI) and in 58-95% of species at Pasoh, Malaysia (depending on the sizes of stems included). Changes in growth were not consistently associated with initial growth rate, adult stature, or wood density. Changes in growth were significantly associated with regional climate changes: at both sites growth was negatively correlated with annual mean daily minimum temperatures, and at BCI growth was positively correlated with annual precipitation and number of rainfree days (a measure of relative insolation). While the underlying cause(s) of decelerating growth is still unresolved, these patterns strongly contradict the hypothesized pantropical increase in tree growth rates caused by carbon fertilization. Decelerating tree growth will have important economic and environmental implications.
Nosocomial ventilator-associated pneumonia in a tropical intensive care unit]	Nosocomial ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP) occupy an important place among nosocomial infections and are responsible for a very high mortality. The objective of this work was to study epidemiologic, diagnostic and therapeutic aspects of ventilator-associated pneumonia in a tropical Intensive Care Unit and to release an adapted strategy of antimicrobial treatment.
Nutritive value of tropical pastures in Mauritius.	The basic diet of ruminants in Mauritius comprises mainly tropical forages, whose productivity is highly dependent on the season. Dry matter concentrations and nutritive value of the three most important grasses (Bothriochloa pertusa, Cynodon plectostachyus and Ischaemum aristatum) on Mauritius were measured on three occasions during the year. They showed an increase in dry matter concentration and a decrease in nutritional value at the end of the dry season, more marked for farms located in the coastal region. To allow animals to meet their nutrient requirements, farmers have to adapt their practices (supplementary feeding, rotational grazing, and fertilization) to the seasonal changes on the island.
Morphological and phylogenetic analysis of Anabaenopsis abijatae and Anabaenopsis elenkinii (nostocales, cyanobacteria) from tropical inland water bodies.	Anabaenopsis spp. are heterocytous cyanobacteria commonly found in tropical, subtropical, and temperate water bodies. So far, the knowledge about the phylogeny of this genus is poor. Therefore, we have isolated 15 Anabaenopsis spp. strains from Kenyan and Mexican alkaline and saline water bodies and from a Ugandan freshwater body and studied the morphology and phylogeny in a polyphasic approach. Morphologically, the investigated strains could be discriminated in two groups. One group was containing six Anabaenopsis abijatae and A. cf. abijatae strains with up to more than 500 vegetative cells in one filament, mostly single intercalary heterocyte formation, and the ability to branch out. The other group comprised nine strains of Anabaenopsis elenkinii with short filaments with up to 38 vegetative cells, intercalary heterocytes in pairs, and no ability to branch out. The morphological differences were reflected in the two distinct clusters, which were found in the phylogenetic trees of 16S rDNA and PC-IGS. While the high 16S rDNA similarity values > 97.5% found between all investigated A. abijatae and A. elenkinii strains support the assignment of these two species to one single genus, the morphological differences and the low similarity values (< 87.3) found in PC-IGS sequences between the two clusters indicate two separate genera. A close morphological and phylogenetic relationship was found for A. abijatae and Anabaenopsis (Cyanospira) rippkae.
Nonpoint source pollution loading from an undistributed tropic forest area.	Water quality and unit nonpoint sources (NPS) pollution load from a forest area were studied in a mountainous watershed in Taiwan. The flow rates were measured with rectangular weirs and samples taken for water quality analysis in both non-rainy and rainy days for 2 years. The subroutine of the Hydrological Simulation Program--FORTRAN was used to simulate runoff for additional 3 years. Total annual loads of various water quality parameters were then estimated by a regression model. Most of the parameter concentrations are higher during the rainy days; their values are typically higher as compared to data from other undisturbed forest areas. Nevertheless, the concentration ratio of dissolved inorganic nitrogen to TN or PO4(3-) -P to TP shows TN or TP no correlations with the flow rates, whereas the concentrations of SS and TP are positively correlated with the flow rate. The fluctuation of annual load from this watershed is significant. For example, six major events of the entire year, for which the total duration is merely 6.4 days, contribute 42% of the annual precipitation and at least 40% of the annual NPS loads. The management for controlling the NPS pollution from this forest watershed is discussed.
Ecological restoration of mined-out areas of dry tropical environment, India.	The objective of the present study was to evince the long-term changes after natural revegetation and experimental revegetation of the coal mine spoils with respect to total plant biomass, available plant nutrients, nitrogen transformation and microbial biomass N (MBN) in dry tropical environment of India. Total plant biomass (above- and below-ground), plant available nitrogen, soil nitrogen mineralization and microbial biomass N (MBN) were studied for 2 years in 5 and 10 years old naturally vegetated and revegetated coal mine spoils, and dry tropical forest ecosystem of India. In forest ecosystem, the above ground biomass values ranged from 3,520 to 3,630 kg ha(-1) and belowground from 6,280 to 6,560 kg ha(-1). Plant available nitrogen ranged from 16.76 to 23.21 microg g(-1), net N-mineralization from 9.8 to 48.53 microg g(-1) month(-1) and MBN from 26.4 to 80.02 microg g(-1). In naturally revegetated mine spoil, the above ground biomass values ranged from 1,036 to 1,380 kg ha(-1) and belowground from 2,538 to 3,380 kg ha(-1). Plant available nitrogen ranged from 7.33-17.14 microg g(-1), net N-mineralization from 3.1 to 12.46 microg g(-1) month(-1) and MBN from 14.2 to 35.44 microg g(-1). In revegetated mine spoil, the above ground biomass values ranged from 1,224 to 1,678 kg ha(-1) and belowground from 2,870 to 4,130 kg ha(-1). Plant available nitrogen ranged from 9.4 to 18.83 microg g(-1), net N-mineralization from 4.2 to 16.2 microg g(-1) month(-1) and MBN from 21.6 to 42.6 microg g(-1). The mean plant biomass values in 5 and 10 years mine spoils was lower compared to forest ecosystem by 2.5 and 2 times, respectively. N-mineralization value in 5 year mine spoil was 3.5 times lower and in 10 years mine spoil 2 times lower compared to forest ecosystem. The MBN value was about 2 times lower in both 5 and 10 year mine spoils compared to native forest. MBN was positively related to the re-vegetation age of the mine spoil.
A mast fruiting episode of the tropical tree Peltogyne purpurea (Caesalpinaceae) in the Osa Peninsula, Costa Rica.	The existence of mast fruiting has not been well documented in the Neotropics. The occurrence of a mast fruiting episode in the population of the tree Peltogyne purpurea in the Osa Peninsula of Costa Rica is described. In February and March of 2000 most of the trees of this species produced a large fruit crop, compared with 1995-1999, when the number of fruit producing trees was very low or zero and those that did bear fruit, did so at a low intensity. In contrast, the fruit crop of 2000 was massive, all trees examined produced fruits and the intensity of fruiting was maximal. There is not enough information on the event for a hypothesis to be formed because the climatic or biological cues that triggered this sporadic flowering are unknown and there is no meteorological data available for this area. Populations with this mode of reproduction may experience local extinction bacause of logging operations.
A comparison of sap flow measurements and potometry in two tropical lowland tree species with contrasting wood properties.	We evaluated the performance of the Heat Dissipation Technique (HDT) to measure sap flow in whole trees by comparison with potometric water uptake. Two tropical lowland species, Ochroma lagopus (balsa), a pioneer species with light wood and Hyeronima alchorneoides (pilón), a late-successional species with hard wood were examined. Diurnal courses of sap flow measured with the HDT showed good agreement with potometry. At the low sap flow rates (below 1 Kg h(-1)) occurring during nocturnal recharge HDT consistently underestimated sap flow rates. This resulted in the failure of the current version of the HDT to measure nocturnal water uptake, an important component of the water budget of at least one of the two species examined.
Establishment and development of Tabebuia rosea (Bignoniaceae) seedlings in a semideciduous tropical forest under management, Pacific coast of Mexico]	We evaluated the effect of soil "scarification" and vegetation clearing treatments on the natural regeneration and initial development of Tabebuia rosea (Bertold) DC. seedlings in a moderate sized semideciduous tropical forest subjected to wood harvesting on the coast of Jalisco, Mexico. The treatments were applied under "seed" trees, and the number of germinated seedlings and their development were evaluated for nine months. Soil "scarification" promoted seed germination and initial seedling development, while the control of the competing vegetation increased the seedling growth and reduced their mortality. These results should be taken into account for the natural regeneration of this species, after clearing, to improve wood production, and should be incorporated into the silvicultural techniques currently developed in the region.
Cadmium citotoxicity in mice hepatocytes and implications on tropical environments]	We analyzed phenotypic, structural and ultrastructural alterations induced by Cd+2 in hepatocytes extracted from Swiss Albino mice. Cadmium was given orally in watery solution of CdCl2 during 100 days at concentrations of 50 ppm, 100 ppm and 150 ppm. In controls, distilled water alone was used. The samples were processed with the paraffin inclusion and hematoxilin-eosin coloration techniques for light microscopy. For transmission electron microscopy we used the conventional technique. We found phenotypic (size and weight differences) and physiologic changes (muscular weakness, unrest); at the structural level we noticed loss of trabecular disposition and of lobulillar architecture, lymphocyte agglomeration, vacuolization, dilatation of sinusoid and central vein, among others. The ultrastructural study evidenced alterations coincident with those seen with light microscopy, which were accentuated with the increase of metal concentration: nucleolus with a high number of fibrillar centers (50 ppm); voluminous lipidic drops in the cytoplasm, loose endoplasmic rough reticulum, citoplasmatic vacuolization, altered lisosomes and peroxisomes (100 ppm); contracted nuclei with condensed cromatine, dilatation of intracellular space and mitochondria, and loss of fibrillar areas (150 ppm). Cadmium produces a toxic effect in the hepatic cells; the effect is more severe at higher concentration, leading to cellular necrosis.
Bacillus thuringiensis in caterpillars and associated materials collected from protected tropical forests in northwestern Costa Rica.	Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) synthesizes crystalline inclusions that are toxic to caterpillars (Lepidoptera) and other orders of invertebrates. Materials associated with 37 caterpillars from 16 species, collected while feeding on 15 different species of host plants in dry, cloud and rain forests located in the Area de Conservación Guanacaste in northwestern Costa Rica, were examined for the presence of Bt. From a total of 101 derived samples, 25 Bt isolates were cultured: 56% from host plant leaves, 8% from caterpillar guts and 36% from caterpillar fecal pellets. Bt was isolated from at least one sample in 38% of the systems constituted by the food plant, gut and fecal pellets corresponding to a single caterpillar. Four different morphologies of crystalline inclusions were observed, with bipyramidal and irregular crystal morphologies being the most prevalent.
Temporal variation of biomass and productivity of Thalassia testudinum (Hydrocharitaceae) in Venezuela, Southern Caribbean.	Annual biomass and productivity of Thalassia testudinum were determined during a year at a seagrass bed located in the Parque Nacional Morrocoy, Venezuela. Leaf, rhizome and root biomass were determined monthly, together with short-shoot density, from February 1992 to January 1993, from nine replicated core samples. Productivity was measured using the methodology by Zieman (1974) with minor modifications, and leaf turnover rate was calculated. Leaf biomass values ranged between 101.73 dry g m(-2) in February and 178.11 dry g m(-2) in August. Productivity ranged from 1.69 dry g m(-2) d(-1) in April and October to 3.30 dry g m(-2) d(-1) in July, showing two annual peaks: one in July and one in March. The leaf turnover rate showed the highest value in June (2.41% d(-1)) and the lowest in May (1.23% d(-1)). Sampling time differences in leaf biomass, productivity and turnover rate were statistically significant. Short-shoot density values varied between 811.10 shoots m(-2) in April and 1226.08 shoots m(-2) in December, but the differences were not significant along the year. These results indicated seasonal trends for leaf biomass, productivity and turnover rate of T. testudinum in the Southern Caribbean (latitude 10 degrees N).
Leaf and soil nitrogen and phosphorus availability in a neotropical rain forest of nutrient-rich soil.	The nitrogen and phosphorus supply in a lowland rain forest with a nutrient-rich soil was investigated by means of the leaf N/P quotient. It was hypothesised a high N and P supply to the forest ecosystem with a N and P rich soil. Total N and extractable P were determined in the surface (10 cm) soil of three plots of the forest. Total N was analysed by the Kjeldahl method, and P was extracted with HCI and NH4F. The leaf N/P quotient was evaluated from the senesced leaves of 11 dominant tree species from the mature forest. Samples of 5 g of freshly fallen leaves were collected from three trees of each species. Nitrogen was analysed by microkjeldahl digestion with sulphuric acid and distilled with boric acid, and phosphorus was analysed by digestion with nitric acid and perchloric acid, and determined by photometry. Concentrations of total N (0.50%, n = 30) and extractable P (4.11 microg g(-1), n = 30) in the soil were high. As expected, P supply was sufficient, but contrary to expected, N supply was low (N/P = 11.8, n = 11).
Pasture trees in tropical México: the effect of soil nutrients on seedling growth.	Environment and seedling community under isolated trees in pastures are different from those in the open pasture. The effect of the pasture trees on the soil nutrients and on the seedling growth were investigated. Seven isolated trees and eight plots were selected in two pastures of 12-yr and 32-yr old derived from a lowland rain forest with nutrient-rich soil at Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. The soil concentrations of total N, P Bray, K+, Na+, Ca2+ and Mg2+, plus others physical and chemical characteristics, were compared between the pasture trees and the open-pasture. An experiment was done to test the hypothesis that soil from under the pasture trees was better for seedling growth than soil from the open pasture. Seedlings of two native tree species and two domesticated species were grown in soil from the two different sites in a shade-house. The dry weight of the shoot and root/shoot ratio were compared. Only total N, P and Na+ differed slightly in concentrations between the sites, but did not promote more seedling biomass. It seems that the soil at this location is sufficiently nutrient-rich even in the open pastures and over-ride any effect of the pasture trees on nutrient availability.
Ultrastructure of the wild rice Oryza grandiglumis (Gramineae) in Costa Rica.	Oryza grandiglumis is a wild species of rice endemic to tropical America. This species was first found in 1998 in the wetlands of Caño Negro, located in the northern part of Costa Rica. Twenty five plants of O. grandiglumis were processed for scanning electron microscope. An ultrastructural description of the leaf blade, ligule, auricles, spikelet and caryopsis, with an emphasis on structures of taxonomic value. The leaf blade has a characteristic cuticular wax pattern, composed of dense rod-like structures, and is surrounded by papillae, zipper-like silica cells, abundant bulky prickle trichomes, and hooked trichomes. The blade's edge has three rows of hooked prickle trichomes of various sizes. The auricles wrapped the culm, with long attenuated trichomes at the edges; the base was surrounded by oblong cells. The ligule is a blunt membrane covered by short prickle trichomes. Spikelet morphology is characteristic of the Poaceae family, but the sterile lemmas were nearly as long as the fertile lemmas, and they have an unique crown-like structure of lignified spines between the rachilla and the fertile lemmas. Comparison with Brazilian specimens of O. grandiglumis revealed little differences in the ultrastructural characteristics.
Impact of the invasive plant Syzigium jambos (Myrtaceae) on patterns of understory seedling abundance in a Tropical Premontane Forest, Costa Rica.	Habitat fragmentation, along with other human-induced disturbances, increase the vulnerability of native habitats to be invaded by aggressive, ecologically released, exotic species. Syzigium jambos (L.) Alston (Myrtaceae, Rose Apple) is an important invader still spreading throughout Hawaii, the Antilles, Central and South America. This study examines the effects of S. jambos on plant understory diversity in a 25 ha Tropical Premontane Moist Forest in Atenas, Alajuela, Costa Rica, a protected watershed that supplies drinking water for several human communities. Our final objective is to develop a management strategy combining water protection with the preservation of a representative sample of the original plant diversity in the area. Thirty 2 x 2 m plots were distributed throughout the Municipal Forest maintaining a minimum of 10 m between plots, and 2 m from trails, to sample all understory seedlings and saplings of S. jambos, Coffea arabica (coffee) and tree seedlings. We found a clear dominance of S. jambos over all other understory plants. Of the total 1,285 sampled plants, S. jambos comprised 51%, coffee seedlings represented 14.78%, being the rest tree seedlings. Syzigium jambos had the highest density (5.46 plants/m2, S.D. = 6.44) compared to tree (3.67 plants/m2, S.D. = 3.44) and coffee seedlings (1.58 plants/m2, S.D. = 2.13). There was a highly significant negative relationship between the relative abundance of S. jambos and tree (r2 = 0.52, p < 0.00001) and coffee seedlings (r2 = 0.28, p < 0.002). The abundance of coffee seedlings did not affect the abundance of tree seedlings (r2 = 0.01, p < 0.58). Since the canopy of the Municipal Forest is relatively closed and composed of a monolayer of trees with almost no overlapping crowns, we found no relationship between canopy cover and the abundance of S. jambos. The height distribution indicated that the majority of S. jambos individuals were seedlings and saplings (height < or = 1.5 m), with only 4.6% classified as adults, (height > or = 2 m). The results show a clear role of S. jambos as an aggressive, invasive species within the Municipal Forest. This invasion is enhanced by both the ecological characteristics of the species and the fragmentation of the forest by coffee farming around the site. Among a variety of management possibilities, an ecosystem-level approach of manually removing S. jambos over time while replanting native species appears to be the preferred strategy, given the intended continued use of the Municipal Forest as a source of drinking water and as a representative sample of the original vegetation of the area.
Feeding habits of the squirrel Sciurus variegatoides (Rodentia: Sciuridae) in the Nicoya Peninsula, Costa Rica]	Food items consumed by the squirrel Sciurus variegatoides atrirufus were determined in an agricultural setting in the Nicoya Peninsula (9 degrees 47' N, 84 degrees 56' W), Costa Rica, where two life zones (Premontane Moist Forest Basal Belt Transition, and Tropical Dry Forest) predominate. By analyzing the gut contents of 120 squirrels, from February 1987 through January 1988, it was determined that coconut (Cocos nucifera), indian almond (Terminalia catappa) and flamboyant (Delonix regia) were the most common dietary items. There were differences in food consumption according to age: adults preferred coconut, whereas young individuals preferred almond. This finding can be explained in terms of fruit characteristics, as well as tree architecture and accessibility for squirrels; almendro trees provide higher protection and a more accessible food resource, so that it was better used by young individuals.
From forest landscape to agricultural landscape in the developing tropical country of Malaysia: pattern, process, and their significance on policy.	Agricultural expansion and deforestation are spatial processes of land transformation that impact on landscape pattern. In peninsular Malaysia, the conversion of forested areas into two major cash crops--rubber and oil palm plantations--has been identified as driving significant environmental change. To date, there has been insufficient literature studying the link between changes in landscape patterns and land-related development policies. Therefore, this paper examines: (i) the links between development policies and changes in land use/land cover and landscape pattern and (ii) the significance and implications of these links for future development policies. The objective is to generate insights on the changing process of land use/land cover and landscape pattern as a functional response to development policies and their consequences for environmental conditions. Over the last century, the development of cash crops has changed the country from one dominated by natural landscapes to one dominated by agricultural landscapes. But the last decade of the century saw urbanization beginning to impact significantly. This process aligned with the establishment of various development policies, from land development for agriculture between the mid 1950s and the 1970s to an emphasis on manufacturing from the 1980s onward. Based on a case study in Selangor, peninsular Malaysia, a model of landscape pattern change is presented. It contains three stages according to the relative importance of rubber (first stage: 1900--1950s), oil palm (second stage: 1960s--1970s), and urban (third stage: 1980s--1990s) development that influenced landscape fragmentation and heterogeneity. The environmental consequences of this change have been depicted through loss of biodiversity, geohazard incidences, and the spread of vector-borne diseases. The spatial ecological information can be useful to development policy formulation, allowing diagnosis of the country's "health" and sustainability. The final section outlines the usefulness of landscape analysis in the policy-making process to prevent further fragmentation of the landscape and forest loss in Malaysia in the face of rapid economic development.
Mushroom harvesting ants in the tropical rain forest.	Ants belong to the most important groups of arthropods, inhabiting and commonly dominating most terrestrial habitats, especially tropical rainforests. Their highly collective behavior enables exploitation of various resources and is viewed as a key factor for their evolutionary success. Accordingly, a great variety of life strategies evolved in this group of arthropods, including seed harvesters, gardeners, and planters, fungus growers, nomadic hunters, life stock keepers, and slave makers. This study reports the discovery of a new lifestyle in ants. In a Southeast Asian rainforest habitat, Euprenolepis procera is specialized in harvesting a broad spectrum of naturally growing mushrooms, a nutritionally challenging and spatiotemporally unpredictable food source. While unfavorable to the vast majority of animals, E. procera has developed exceptional adaptations such as a shift to a fully nomadic lifestyle and special food processing capabilities, which allow it to rely entirely on mushrooms. As a consequence, E. procera is the most efficient and predominant consumer of epigeic mushrooms in the studied habitat and this has broad implications for the tropical rainforest ecosystem.
Genetic analysis of photoperiod sensitivity in a tropical by temperate maize recombinant inbred population using molecular markers.	Photoperiod sensitivity is an important consideration in maize cultivation. Flowering time is affected by photoperiod and sensitivity to it limits the potential for successful exchange of germplasm across different latitudes. For resolving the genetic basis of photoperiod sensitivity in maize, a set of 207 recombinant inbred lines derived from a temperate and tropical inbred line cross was evaluated for 2 years in a long-day and short-day environment. Genetic linkage maps were constructed using 237 SSR markers with a total length 1,974.3 cM, and an average space between two makers of 8.33 cM. Twenty-nine QTL were detected for the five measured photoperiod sensitivity traits using composite interval mapping and multiple interval mapping. QTL for flowering time, plant height and leaf number, under long-day conditions, were found clustered on chromosome 10, while QTL for short-day conditions resided on chromosome 3. The QTL in the bin 10.04 region of chromosome 10 were detected associated with photoperiod sensitivity and related traits during long days. These results indicated that this region might contain an important photoperiod sensitivity element.
Using climate information for improved health in Africa: relevance, constraints and opportunities.	Good health status is one of the primary aspirations of human social development and, as a consequence, health indicators are key components of the human development indices by which we measure progress toward sustainable development. Certain diseases and ill health are associated with particular environmental and climate conditions. The timeframe of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) demands that the risks to health associated with current climate variability are more fully understood and acted upon to improve the focus of resources in climate sensitive disease control, especially in sub-Saharan Africa, where good epidemiological surveillance data are lacking. In the absence of high-quality epidemiological data on malaria distribution in Africa, climate information has long been used to develop malaria risk maps illustrating the climatic suitability boundaries for endemic transmission. However, experience to date has shown that it is difficult in terms of availability, timing and cost to obtain meteorological observations from national meteorological services in Africa. National health services generally find the costs of purchasing these data prohibitive given their competing demands for resources across the spectrum of health service requirements. Some national health services have tried to overcome this access problem by using proxies derived from satellites, which tend to be available freely, in 'near-real-time' and therefore offer much promise for monitoring applications. This paper discusses the issues related to climate and health, reviews the current use of climate information for malaria endemic and epidemic surveillance, and presents examples of operational use of climate information for malaria control in Africa based on Geographical Information Systems and Remote Sensing.
Remote sensing and climate data as a key for understanding fasciolosis transmission in the Andes: review and update of an ongoing interdisciplinary project.	Fasciolosis caused by Fasciola hepatica in various South American countries located on the slopes of the Andes has been recognized as an important public health problem. However, the importance of this zoonotic hepatic parasite was neglected until the last decade. Countries such as Peru and Bolivia are considered to be hyperendemic areas for human and animal fasciolosis, and other countries such as Chile, Ecuador, Colombia and Venezuela are also affected. At the beginning of the 1990s a multidisciplinary project was launched with the aim to shed light on the problems related to this parasitic disease in the Northern Bolivian Altiplano. A few years later, a geographic information system (GIS) was incorporated into this multidisciplinary project analysing the epidemiology of human and animal fasciolosis in this South American Andean region. Various GIS projects were developed in some Andean regions using climatic data, climatic forecast indices and remote sensing data. Step by step, all these GIS projects concerning the forecast of the fasciolosis transmission risk in the Andean mountain range were revised and in some cases updated taking into account new data. The first of these projects was developed on a regional scale for the central Chilean regions and the proposed model was validated on a local scale in the Northern Bolivian Altiplano. This validated mixed model, based on both fasciolosis climatic forecast indices and normalized difference vegetation index values from Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer satellite sensor, was extrapolated to other human and/or animal endemic areas of Peru and Ecuador. The resulting fasciolosis risk maps make it possible to show the known human endemic areas of, mainly, the Peruvian Altiplano, Cajamarca and Mantaro Peruvian valleys, and some valleys of the Ecuadorian Cotopaxi province. Nevertheless, more climate and remote sensing data, as well as more accurate epidemiological reports, have to be incorporated into these GIS projects, which should be considered the key in understanding fasciolosis transmission in the Andes.
Meteorological, environmental remote sensing and neural network analysis of the epidemiology of malaria transmission in Thailand.	In many malarious regions malaria transmission roughly coincides with rainy seasons, which provide for more abundant larval habitats. In addition to precipitation, other meteorological and environmental factors may also influence malaria transmission. These factors can be remotely sensed using earth observing environmental satellites and estimated with seasonal climate forecasts. The use of remote sensing usage as an early warning tool for malaria epidemics have been broadly studied in recent years, especially for Africa, where the majority of the world's malaria occurs. Although the Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), which includes Thailand and the surrounding countries, is an epicenter of multidrug resistant falciparum malaria, the meteorological and environmental factors affecting malaria transmissions in the GMS have not been examined in detail. In this study, the parasitological data used consisted of the monthly malaria epidemiology data at the provincial level compiled by the Thai Ministry of Public Health. Precipitation, temperature, relative humidity, and vegetation index obtained from both climate time series and satellite measurements were used as independent variables to model malaria. We used neural network methods, an artificial-intelligence technique, to model the dependency of malaria transmission on these variables. The average training accuracy of the neural network analysis for three provinces (Kanchanaburi, Mae Hong Son, and Tak) which are among the provinces most endemic for malaria, is 72.8% and the average testing accuracy is 62.9% based on the 1994-1999 data. A more complex neural network architecture resulted in higher training accuracy but also lower testing accuracy. Taking into account of the uncertainty regarding reported malaria cases, we divided the malaria cases into bands (classes) to compute training accuracy. Using the same neural network architecture on the 19 most endemic provinces for years 1994 to 2000, the mean training accuracy weighted by provincial malaria cases was 73%. Prediction of malaria cases for 2001 using neural networks trained for 1994-2000 gave a weighted accuracy of 53%. Because there was a significant decrease (31%) in the number of malaria cases in the 19 provinces from 2000 to 2001, the networks overestimated malaria transmissions. The decrease in transmission was not due to climatic or environmental changes. Thailand is a country with long borders. Migrant populations from the neighboring countries enlarge the human malaria reservoir because these populations have more limited access to health care. This issue also confounds the complexity of modeling malaria based on meteorological and environmental variables alone. In spite of the relatively low resolution of the data and the impact of migrant populations, we have uncovered a reasonably clear dependency of malaria on meteorological and environmental remote sensing variables. When other contextual determinants do not vary significantly, using neural network analysis along with remote sensing variables to predict malaria endemicity should be feasible.
A geospatial risk assessment model for leprosy in Ethiopia based on environmental thermal-hydrological regime analysis.	Geospatial methods were used to study the associations of the environmental thermal-hydrological regime with leprosy prevalence in the Oromia and Amhara regions of Ethiopia. Prediction models were developed that indicated leprosy prevalence was related to: (i) long-term normal climate grid data on temperature and moisture balance (rain/potential evapo-transpiration); (ii) satellite surveillance data on the Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) and daytime earth surface temperature (Tmax) from the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR); and (iii) a Genetic Algorithm Rule-Set Prediction (GARP) model based on NDVI and Tmax data in relation to leprosy prevalence data. Our results suggest that vertical transmission is not the only means of acquiring leprosy and support earlier reports that a major factor that governs transmission of leprosy is the viability of Mycobacterium leprae outside the human body which is related to the thermal-hydrologic regime of the environment.
Ecological niche modeling for visceral leishmaniasis in the state of Bahia, Brazil, using genetic algorithm for rule-set prediction and growing degree day-water budget analysis.	Two predictive models were developed within a geographic information system using Genetic Algorithm Rule-Set Prediction (GARP) and the growing degree day (GDD)-water budget (WB) concept to predict the distribution and potential risk of visceral leishmaniasis (VL) in the State of Bahia, Brazil. The objective was to define the environmental suitability of the disease as well as to obtain a deeper understanding of the eco-epidemiology of VL by associating environmental and climatic variables with disease prevalence. Both the GARP model and the GDDWB model, using different analysis approaches and with the same human prevalence database, predicted similar distribution and abundance patterns for the Lutzomyia longipalpis-Leishmania chagasi system in Bahia. High and moderate prevalence sites for VL were significantly related to areas of high and moderate risk prediction by: (i) the area predicted by the GARP model, depending on the number of pixels that overlapped among eleven annual model years, and (ii) the number of potential generations per year that could be completed by the Lu. longipalpis-L. chagasi system by GDD-WB analysis. When applied to the ecological zones of Bahia, both the GARP and the GDD-WB prediction models suggest that the highest VL risk is in the interior region of the state, characterized by a semi-arid and hot climate known as Caatinga, while the risk in the Bahia interior forest and the Cerrado ecological regions is lower. The Bahia coastal forest was predicted to be a low-risk area due to the unsuitable conditions for the vector and VL transmission.
Multiple species of ectomycorrhizal fungi are frequently detected on individual oak root tips in a tropical cloud forest.	The ecological importance of ectomycorrhizal (EM) fungi in tropical ecosystems is increasingly recognized, but few studies have used molecular methods to examine EM fungal communities in tropical forests. The diversity and composition of the EM community on Quercus crassifolia in a tropical montane cloud forest in southern Mexico were characterized using DNA sequencing of single root tips. Individual root tips commonly harbored multiple fungal species that resulted in mixed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products. By cloning and performing gel extractions on mixed PCR samples, we identified two or more EM fungi on 26% of the root tips. When non-EM fungi were considered, this figure increased to 31% of root tips. A total of 44 EM taxa and nine non-EM taxa were detected on roots from 21 soil cores (104 root tips). Taxa in the families Russulaceae, Cortinariaceae, Inocybaceae, and Thelephoraceae were frequent. This is the first study to characterize the belowground EM community in a tropical montane cloud forest.
Environmental and hormonal correlates of immune activity in a cooperatively breeding tropical bird.	Because climatic patterns in temperate regions are generally predictable, species can allocate resources adaptively among competing physiological processes before environmental conditions change. In the semi-arid tropics where environments are seasonal, but highly unpredictable, allocation decisions may be more sensitive to short-term fluctuations in conditions. We asked (i) whether investments in immune function were affected by inter-annual variation in rainfall and (ii) whether corticosterone and prolactin, two hormones that modulate immune activity in other vertebrates, predict environmentally induced alterations in immune activity in cooperatively breeding superb starlings (Lamprotornis superbus). Superb starlings inhabit African savannas characterized by high among-year variation in rainfall, which influences their breeding life histories and hormone levels. We quantified bactericidal capacity of plasma, or bacterial killing, and prolactin and corticosterone concentrations in blood samples collected over a four year period during the dry season prior to breeding, as this is the period when reproductive roles are determined in this species and when rainfall is most variable. We found that bacterial killing was weakest in the driest year of the study, and we detected a positive relationship between bacterial killing and prolactin, but not a negative relationship with corticosterone. Together these results suggest that prolactin may mediate rainfall-induced changes in immune activity in superb starlings. This study is the first to examine relationships between prolactin and an index of constitutive, innate immunity in birds, and suggests that even species inhabiting unpredictable environments adjust their physiological priorities to environmental conditions, perhaps via prolactin.
Leaf size and leaf display of thirty-eight tropical tree species.	Trees forage for light through optimal leaf display. Effective leaf display is determined by metamer traits (i.e., the internode, petiole, and corresponding leaf), and thus these traits strongly co-determine carbon gain and as a result competitive advantage in a light-limited environment. We examined 11 metamer traits of sun and shade trees of 38 coexisting moist forest tree species and determined the relative strengths of intra- and interspecific variation. Species-specific metamer traits were related to two variables that represent important life history variation; the regeneration light requirements and average leaf size of the species. Metamer traits varied strongly across species and, in contrast to our expectation, showed only modest changes in response to light. Intra- and interspecific responses to light were only congruent for a third of the traits evaluated. Four traits, amongst which leaf size, specific leaf area (SLA), and leaf area ratio at the metamer level (LAR) showed even opposite intra- and interspecific responses to light. Strikingly, these are classic traits that are thought to be of paramount importance for plant performance but that have completely different consequences within and across species. Sun trees of a given species had small leaves to reduce the heat load, but light-demanding species had large leaves compared to shade-tolerants, probably to outcompete their neighbors. Shade trees of a given species had a high SLA and LAR to capture more light in a light-limited environment, whereas shade-tolerant species have well-protected leaves with a low SLA compared to light-demanding species, probably to deter herbivores and enhance leaf lifespan. There was a leaf-size-mediated trade-off between biomechanical and hydraulic safety, and the efficiency with which species can space their leaves and forage for light. Unexpectedly, metamer traits were more closely linked to leaf size than to regeneration light requirements, probably because leaf-size-related biomechanical and vascular constraints limit the trait combinations that are physically possible. This suggests that the leaf size spectrum overrules more subtle variation caused by the leaf economics spectrum, and that leaf size represents a more important strategy axis than previously thought.
Correlations between gastropod shell dissolution and water chemical properties in a tropical estuary.	Although poorly reported in the scientific literature, acidic waters characterize many South East Asian estuaries. The observation of shell dissolution in a typically marine gastropod whelk (Thais) prompted investigation into determining relationships between shell properties of this whelk and the water chemistry (including pH) of the Sungai Brunei estuary (Borneo) in which it occurs. Shell weight, shell length and topographical shell features were determined for populations of Thais gradata distributed along a gradient of pH and salinity ranging between 5.78 and 8.3 pH units, and 3.58 and 31.2psu. Shell weight varied independently of the co-varying acidity, salinity and calcium levels experienced. In contrast, shell length and a semi-quantitative variable based on shell sculpturing (shell erosion rank, SER) were significantly correlated with these water chemistry variables. This study brings attention to the potential use of estuarine organisms and systems in investigating current marine acidification questions.
The tropical brown alga Lobophora variegata as a bioindicator of mining contamination in the New Caledonia lagoon: a field transplantation study.	Previous field and laboratory studies have identified the alga Lobophora variegata as a good candidate for biomonitoring metal contamination in the New Caledonia lagoon which is subjected to intensive and extensive metal inputs from land-based mining activities. The aim of this work was to further assess the bioindicative potential of this species by investigating, in the field, its bioaccumulation capacity for local key contaminants, i.e. Ag, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Mn, Ni and Zn. Algae from clean and contaminated sites were cross-transplanted for a period of three months in order to determine the in situ uptake and depuration kinetics of the nine elements. Results indicate that algae transplanted to the contaminated site displayed a significant linear increase in concentration with time for Ag, As, Cd, Co, Cr, Cu, Mn and Ni. In contrast, algae transplanted to the clean site did not show major depuration of these elements, except for Co. Overall, L. variegata showed a rapid temporal response in metal uptake, especially for the elements intensively released into the coastal environment of New Caledonia (viz., Co, Cr, Mn and Ni). This species appears therefore as an excellent bioindicator species of metal contamination in this area. Our results also provide background information necessary for using L. variegata under in situ experimental conditions so as to provide better quantitative information on ambient metal contamination levels. The wide distribution of L. variegata in tropical areas further enhances its potential as a bioindicator species of metal contamination in other tropical coastal environments.
Reproductive seasonality in female goats adapted to a subtropical environment persists independently of food availability.	The aim of this study was to determine whether the seasonal change in food availability provides a predictive cue that synchronizes the breeding season in goats adapted to the subtropical conditions of Northern Mexico. Groups of multiparous intact (n=7) and ovariectomized does bearing a subcutaneous implant constantly releasing estradiol-l7 beta (OVX+E; n=12) were allocated in two pens and received a constant amount of feed. Another group of OVX+E does (n=10) was incorporated into a flock raised under natural grazing conditions with seasonal fluctuations in food availability. Blood samples were taken twice weekly. Ovulation of intact goats was inferred from plasma progesterone levels. In OVX+E does plasma levels of LH were measured. Intact does displayed seasonal variations in ovulation and the breeding season lasted from September to February. OVX+E goats displayed large seasonal variations in LH secretion regardless of whether they were fed constantly indoors or kept under natural grazing conditions (P<0.0001). The mean date of increase in LH secretion varied between years (P<0.0001) but did not differ between groups (naturally grazed: August 13+/-10 days; constantly fed: August 26+/-10 days). In contrast, the seasonal decline in LH secretion differed between groups: it was consistently delayed in constantly fed animals compared to those feeding naturally (naturally grazed: January 28+/-4 days; constantly fed: February 24+/-6 days, group effect, P<0.01). These results show that local female goats from subtropical Mexico display large reproductive seasonality independently of food availability.
The traditional knowledge on stingless bees (Apidae: Meliponina) used by the Enawene-Nawe tribe in western Brazil.	This paper presents the Enawene-Nawe Society's traditional knowledge about stingless bees. The Enawene-Nawe are an Aruak speaking people, indigenous to the Meridian Amazon. Specifically, they live in the Jurema River hydrological basin, located in the northwestern region of the Mato Grosso state.
Weather and notified Campylobacter infections in temperate and sub-tropical regions of Australia: an ecological study.	The relationship between weather and food-borne diseases has been of great concern recently. However, the impact of weather variations on food-borne disease may vary in different areas with various geographic, weather and demographic characteristics. This study was designed to quantify the relationship between weather variables and Campylobacter infections in two Australian cities with different local climatic conditions.
Accelerated evolutionary rates in tropical and oceanic parmelioid lichens (Ascomycota).	The rate of nucleotide substitutions is not constant across the Tree of Life, and departures from a molecular clock have been commonly reported. Within parmelioid lichens, the largest group of macrolichens, large discrepancies in branch lengths between clades were found in previous studies. Using an extended taxon sampling, we test for presence of significant rate discrepancies within and between these clades and test our a priori hypothesis that such rate discrepancies may be explained by shifts in moisture regime or other environmental conditions.
Effect of dietary supplementation with vitamins E and C on production performance, immune responses and antioxidant status of White Leghorn layers under tropical summer conditions.	1. The effects of vitamin E (DL-alpha-tocopheryl acetate) and vitamin C (ascorbic acid) supplementation on performance, some immune variables and antioxidant status of White Leghorn layers (aged 44-56 weeks) exposed to tropical summer conditions were investigated. 2. Both vitamins E and C significantly improved the egg production, food conversion efficiency, antibody responses to inoculated sheep red blood cells (SRBC) and Newcastle disease virus (NDV) vaccine, lymphocyte proliferation in response to mitogen and activities of antioxidant enzymes red blood cell catalase (RBCC) and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-PX) in layers. Vitamin C increased the inflammatory response to phytohaemagglutinin-P (PHA-P) inoculation. 3. Supplemental vitamin C at 200 mg/kg diet significantly increased eggshell weight, eggshell thickness, and shell breaking strength. However, no effect of supplemental vitamin E on eggshell quality was observed. 4. Vitamins E and C, as well as interactions between them, significantly influenced the activities of glutathione reductase and lipid peroxidase. A combination of vitamin E at 125 IU/kg with vitamin C at 200 mg/kg diet had an additive effect on reducing the activity of oxidative enzyme lipid peroxidase (LP) and increasing the activity of antioxidant enzyme glutathione reductase (GSHR). 5. It is concluded that vitamin E (125 IU/kg) and vitamin C (200 mg/kg) could independently alleviate the effects of heat stress on production performance and immunological variables of layers. However, combination of both the vitamins at the above-mentioned concentrations is beneficial in eliciting higher antioxidant status in laying hens exposed to tropical summer conditions.
Tropical coastal habitats as surrogates of fish community structure, grazing, and fisheries value.	Habitat maps are frequently invoked as surrogates of biodiversity to aid the design of networks of marine reserves. Maps are used to maximize habitat heterogeneity in reserves because this is likely to maximize the number of species protected. However, the technique's efficacy is limited by intra-habitat variability in the species present and their abundances. Although communities are expected to vary among patches of the same habitat, this variability is poorly documented and rarely incorporated into reserve planning. To examine intra-habitat variability in coral-reef fishes, we generated a data set from eight tropical coastal habitats and six islands in the Bahamian archipelago using underwater visual censuses. Firstly, we provide further support for habitat heterogeneity as a surrogate of biodiversity as each predefined habitat type supported a distinct assemblage of fishes. Intra-habitat variability in fish community structure at scales of hundreds of kilometers (among islands) was significant in at least 75% of the habitats studied, depending on whether presence/absence, density, or biomass data were used. Intra-habitat variability was positively correlated with the mean number of species in that habitat when density and biomass data were used. Such relationships provide a proxy for the assessment of intra-habitat variability when detailed quantitative data are scarce. Intra-habitat variability was examined in more detail for one habitat (forereefs visually dominated by Montastraea corals). Variability in community structure among islands was driven by small, demersal families (e.g., territorial pomacentrid and labrid fishes). Finally, we examined the ecological and economic significance of intra-habitat variability in fish assemblages on Montastraea reefs by identifying how this variability affects the composition and abundances of fishes in different functional groups, the key ecosystem process of parrotfish grazing, and the ecosystem service of value of commercially important finfish. There were significant differences in a range of functional groups and grazing, but not fisheries value. Variability at the scale of tens of kilometers (among reefs around an island) was less than that among islands. Caribbean marine reserves should be replicated at scales of hundreds of kilometers, particularly for species-rich habitats, to capture important intra-habitat variability in community structure, function, and an ecosystem process.
Temperature as a key driver of ecological sorting among invasive pest species in the tropical Andes.	Invasive species are a major threat to the sustainable provision of ecosystem products and services, both in natural and agricultural ecosystems. To understand the spatial arrangement of species successively introduced into the same ecosystem, we examined the tolerance to temperature and analyzed the field distribution of three potato tuber moths (PTM, Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae), that were introduced in Ecuador since the 1980s. We studied physiological responses to constant temperatures of the three PTM species under laboratory conditions and modeled consequences for their overall population dynamics. We then compared our predictions to field abundances of PTM adults collected in 42 sites throughout central Ecuador. Results showed that the three PTM species differed with respect to their physiological response to temperature. Symmetrischema tangolias was more cold tolerant while Tecia solanivora had the highest growth rates at warmer temperatures. Phthorimaea operculella showed the poorest physiological performance across the range of tested temperatures. Overall, field distributions agree with predictions based on physiological experiments and life table analyses. At elevations >3000 m, the most cold-tolerant species, S. tangolias, was typically dominant and often the only species present. This species may therefore represent a biological sensor of climate change. At low elevations (<2700 m), T. solanivora was generally the most abundant species, probably due to its high fecundity at high temperatures. At mid elevations, the three species co-occurred, but P. operculella was generally the least abundant species. Consistent with these qualitative results, significant regression analyses found that the best predictors of field abundance were temperature and a species x temperature interaction term. Our results suggest that the climatic diversity in agricultural landscapes can directly affect the community composition following sequential invasions. In the tropical Andes, as in other mountain ecosystems, the wide range of thermal environments found along elevational gradients may be one reason why the risks of invasion by successively introduced pest species could increase in the near future. More data on potential biological risks associated with climatic warming trends in mountain systems are therefore urgently needed, especially in developing nations where such studies are lacking.
Evolvement characteristics and coupling relationship of soil organic carbon and total nitrogen in subtropical paddy field ecosystem under different fertilization practices]	Soil samples were collected from long-term monitoring plots of paddy field ecosystem in Hunan Province to study the evolvement characteristics and coupling relationship of soil organic carbon and total nitrogen under different fertilization practices. The results showed that in 1986-2003, the contents of soil organic carbon and total nitrogen had a slight decrease under no fertilization (CK), basically remained stable under chemical fertilization (NPK), and increased under the combined application of organic manure and chemical fertilizers. Compared with those in CK, the contents of soil organic carbon and total nitrogen in treatments NPK, low application rate organic manure, and high application rate organic manure were increased by 13% and 18%, 54% and 45%, and 89% and 67% respectively. There was a significant positive correlation (P < 0.01) between soil organic carbon and total nitrogen. The soil C/N was around 10, with the majority ranged from 8.5 to 12.9. It was suggested that a combined application of organic manure and chemical fertilizers on paddy field could increase the sequestration and accumulation of soil carbon and nitrogen to a certain extent, and there existed a better coupling relationship between soil organic carbon and total nitrogen in paddy field ecosystem.
Production of two novel laccase isoforms by a thermotolerant strain of Pycnoporus sanguineus isolated from an oil-polluted tropical habitat.	A thermotolerant and halotolerant strain of Pycnoporus sanguineus was isolated from an oil-polluted site in a tropical area located in Veracruz, Mexico. This strain was able to grow at 47 degrees C and in culture medium containing 500 mM NaCl. The strain was also tolerant to the presence of 30,000 ppm of crude Maya oil. A 68-kDa protein purified from submerged cultures exhibited laccase activity towards 2,2'-azino-bis(3-ethylbenzthiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) (ABTS), guaiacol, syringaldazine, and o-dianisidine, for which it presented the highest affinity (Km = 43 microM). Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis showed that, unusual for laccases, the enzyme has two active isoforms, with isoelectric points of 7.00 and 7.08. The purified enzyme showed high thermostability, retaining 40% of its original activity after 3 h at 60 degrees C. This property seems to correlate with a long "shelf-life," given that at 40 degrees C enzyme activity was only gradually lost over a 5-day period incubation. Both the fungus and its laccase are likely to have high potential for biotechnological applications.
Spatial patterns and interspecific associations of three canopy species at different life stages in a subtropical forest, China.	Spatial patterns of species at different life stages are an important aspect for understanding causal mechanisms that facilitate species co-existence. Using Ripley's univariate L(t) and bivariate L(12)(t) functions, we analyzed the spatial patterns and interspecific associations of three canopy species at different life history stages in a 20-ha subtropical forest plot in Dinghushan Nature Reserve. Based on diameter at breast height (DBH), four life stages were distinguished. Castanopsis chinensis and Schima superba showed a unimodal DBH distribution. Engelhardtia roxburghiana showed a bimodal curve. L(t) function analysis showed significantly aggregated distributions of all three species at later life stages and random distribution at early life stages at some scales. From the analysis of L(12)(t) function, the results showed the positive association was a dominant pattern for most species pairs at most scales but the intensity of association decreases with the increase of life stages. Juveniles of the three species had no negative intra- and interspecific associations with the older life stages. Only premature trees were suppressed by overmature trees at some scales. Considering these results, we found three canopy-dominant species that lacked regeneration. There was no direct competition occurring between understorey individuals. Young trees can grow well under conspecific species with two other species. Longevity and lack of regeneration led to a large number of trees stored in mature and overmature stages, therefore, intra- and inter-competition can be strong at later life stages.
Global warming, elevational range shifts, and lowland biotic attrition in the wet tropics.	Many studies suggest that global warming is driving species ranges poleward and toward higher elevations at temperate latitudes, but evidence for range shifts is scarce for the tropics, where the shallow latitudinal temperature gradient makes upslope shifts more likely than poleward shifts. Based on new data for plants and insects on an elevational transect in Costa Rica, we assess the potential for lowland biotic attrition, range-shift gaps, and mountaintop extinctions under projected warming. We conclude that tropical lowland biotas may face a level of net lowland biotic attrition without parallel at higher latitudes (where range shifts may be compensated for by species from lower latitudes) and that a high proportion of tropical species soon faces gaps between current and projected elevational ranges.
Spatial distribution of Taenia solium porcine cysticercosis within a rural area of Mexico.	Cysticercosis is caused by Taenia solium, a parasitic disease that affects humans and rurally bred pigs in developing countries. The cysticercus may localize in the central nervous system of the human, causing neurocysticercosis, the most severe and frequent form of the disease. There appears to be an association between the prevalence of porcine cysticercosis and domestic pigs that wander freely and have access to human feces. In order to assess whether the risk of cysticercosis infection is clustered or widely dispersed in a limited rural area, a spatial analysis of rural porcine cysticercosis was applied to 13 villages of the Sierra de Huautla in Central Mexico. Clustering of cases in specific households would indicate tapeworm carriers in the vicinity, whereas their dispersal would suggest that the ambulatory habits of both humans and pigs contribute to the spread of cysticercosis. A total of 562 pigs were included in this study (August-December 2003). A global positioning system was employed in order to plot the geographic distribution of both cysticercotic pigs and risk factors for infection within the villages. Prevalence of pig tongue cysticercosis varied significantly in sampled villages (p = 0.003), ranging from 0% to 33.3% and averaging 13.3%. Pigs were clustered in households, but no differences in the clustering of cysticercotic and healthy pigs were found. In contrast, the presence of pigs roaming freely and drinking stagnant water correlated significantly with porcine cysticercosis (p = 0.07), as did the absence of latrines (p = 0.0008). High prevalence of porcine cysticercosis proves that transmission is still quite common in rural Mexico. The lack of significant differentiation in the geographical clustering of healthy and cysticercotic pigs weakens the argument that focal factors (e.g., household location of putative tapeworm carriers) play an important role in increasing the risk of cysticercosis transmission in pigs. Instead, it would appear that other wide-ranging biological, physical, and cultural factors determine the geographic spread of the disease. Extensive geographic dispersal of the risk of cysticercosis makes it imperative that control measures be applied indiscriminately to all pigs and humans living in this endemic area.
Clinical and laboratory predictors of bacterial diarrhea in a tropical environment.	A total of 180 patients with diarrhea, 6 years and below, were seen and evaluated in our pediatric clinic during the months of July to December, 1986. A bacterial pathogen was isolated from the stools in 24/180 (13%). The best historical factors for predictive accuracies were abrupt onset, no vomiting before the onset of diarrhea, and greater than four stools per 24 hours. The presence of fecal leukocytes was the best screening tool for stool culture positivity. The patients identified with the above three historical factors and positive for fecal leukocytes had an 83% probability of having a positive bacterial stool culture compared to only a 5% probability if any one of the factors was absent. We were able to identify a subpopulation of American dependents in a tropical environment with diarrhea who had a high probability of having a bacterial stool pathogen based on historical factors and the fecal leukocyte test.
Value of small patches in the conservation of plant-species diversity in highly fragmented rainforest.	We evaluated the importance of small (<5 ha) forest patches for the conservation of regional plant diversity in the tropical rainforest of Los Tuxtlas, Mexico. We analyzed the density of plant species (number of species per 0.1 ha) in 45 forest patches of different sizes (1-700 ha) in 3 landscapes with different deforestation levels (4, 11, and 24% forest cover). Most of the 364 species sampled (360 species, 99%) were native to the region, and only 4 (1%) were human-introduced species. Species density in the smallest patches was high and variable; the highest (84 species) and lowest (23 species) number of species were recorded in patches of up to 1.8 ha. Despite the small size of these patches, they contained diverse communities of native plants, including endangered and economically important species. The relationship between species density and area was significantly different among the landscapes, with a significant positive slope only in the landscape with the highest deforestation level. This indicates that species density in a patch of a given size may vary among landscapes that have different deforestation levels. Therefore, the conservation value of a patch depends on the total forest cover remaining in the landscape. Our findings revealed, however, that a great portion of regional plant diversity was located in very small forest patches (<5 ha), most of the species were restricted to only a few patches (41% of the species sampled were distributed in only 1-2 patches, and almost 70% were distributed in 5 patches) and each landscape conserved a unique plant assemblage. The conservation and restoration of small patches is therefore necessary to effectively preserve the plant diversity of this strongly deforested and unique Neotropical region.
El Nino/Southern Oscillation response to global warming.	The El Niño/Southern Oscillation (ENSO) phenomenon, originating in the Tropical Pacific, is the strongest natural interannual climate signal and has widespread effects on the global climate system and the ecology of the Tropical Pacific. Any strong change in ENSO statistics will therefore have serious climatic and ecological consequences. Most global climate models do simulate ENSO, although large biases exist with respect to its characteristics. The ENSO response to global warming differs strongly from model to model and is thus highly uncertain. Some models simulate an increase in ENSO amplitude, others a decrease, and others virtually no change. Extremely strong changes constituting tipping point behavior are not simulated by any of the models. Nevertheless, some interesting changes in ENSO dynamics can be inferred from observations and model integrations. Although no tipping point behavior is envisaged in the physical climate system, smooth transitions in it may give rise to tipping point behavior in the biological, chemical, and even socioeconomic systems. For example, the simulated weakening of the Pacific zonal sea surface temperature gradient in the Hadley Centre model (with dynamic vegetation included) caused rapid Amazon forest die-back in the mid-twenty-first century, which in turn drove a nonlinear increase in atmospheric CO(2), accelerating global warming.
Leaf traits show different relationships with shade tolerance in moist versus dry tropical forests.	Shade tolerance is the central paradigm for understanding forest succession and dynamics, but there is considerable debate as to what the salient features of shade tolerance are, whether adult leaves show similar shade adaptations to seedling leaves, and whether the same leaf adaptations are found in forests under different climatic control. Here, adult leaf and metamer traits were measured for 39 tree species from a tropical moist semi-evergreen forest (1580 mm rain yr(-1)) and 41 species from a dry deciduous forest (1160 mm yr(-1)) in Bolivia. Twenty-six functional traits were measured and related to species regeneration light requirements.Adult leaf traits were clearly associated with shade tolerance. Different, rather than stronger, shade adaptations were found for moist compared with dry forest species. Shade adaptations exclusively found in the evergreen moist forest were related to tough and persistent leaves, and shade adaptations in the dry deciduous forest were related to high light interception and water use.These results suggest that, for forests differing in rainfall seasonality, there is a shift in the relative importance of functional leaf traits and performance trade-offs that control light partitioning. In the moist evergreen forest leaf traits underlying the growth-survival trade-off are important, whereas in the seasonally deciduous forest leaf traits underlying the growth trade-off between low and high light might become important.
Tropical nematode diversity: vertical stratification of nematode communities in a Costa Rican humid lowland rainforest.	Comparisons of nematode communities among ecosystems have indicated that, unlike many organisms, nematode communities have less diversity in the tropics than in temperate ecosystems. There are, however, few studies of tropical nematode diversity on which to base conclusions of global patterns of diversity. This study reports an attempt to estimate nematode diversity in the lowland tropical rainforest of La Selva Biological Research Station in Costa Rica. We suggest one reason that previous estimates of tropical nematode diversity were low is because habitats above the mineral soil are seldom sampled. As much as 62% of the overall genetic diversity, measured by an 18S ribosomal barcode, existed in litter and understorey habitats and not in soil. A maximum-likelihood tree of barcodes from 360 individual nematodes indicated most major terrestrial nematode lineages were represented in the samples. Estimated 'species' richness ranged from 464 to 502 within the four 40 x 40 m plots. Directed sampling of insects and their associated nematodes produced a second set of barcodes that were not recovered by habitat sampling, yet may constitute a major class of tropical nematode diversity. While the generation of novel nematode barcodes proved relatively easy, their identity remains obscure due to deficiencies in existing taxonomic databases. Specimens of Criconematina, a monophyletic group of soil-dwelling plant-parasitic nematodes were examined in detail to assess the steps necessary for associating barcodes with nominal species. Our results highlight the difficulties associated with studying poorly understood organisms in an understudied ecosystem using a destructive (i.e. barcode) sampling method.
Unexpected diversity in the catfish Pseudancistrus brevispinis reveals dispersal routes in a Neotropical center of endemism: the Guyanas Region.	Neotropical freshwater fishes have reached an unrivalled diversity, organized into several areas of endemism, yet the underlying processes are still largely unknown. The topographical and ecological characteristics of the Guyanas Region make it an ideal area of endemism in which to investigate the forces that have shaped this great diversity. This region is thought to be inhabited by species descending from Amazonian ancestors, which would have used two documented routes that, however, hardly explain the entrance of species adapted to running waters. Here, we investigate the evolutionary history of Pseudancistrus brevispinis, a catfish endemic to this region and exclusively found in running waters, thus making it an ideal model for investigating colonization routes and dispersal in such habitats. Our analyses, based on mitochondrial and nuclear markers, revealed an unexpected diversity consisting of six monophyletic lineages within P. brevispinis, showing a disjoint distribution pattern. The lineages endemic to Guyanas coastal rivers form a monophyletic group that originated via an ancestral colonization event from the Amazon basin. Evidence given favours a colonization pathway through river capture between an Amazonian tributary and the Upper Maroni River. Population genetic analyses of the most widespread species indicate that subsequent dispersal among Guyanas coastal rivers occurred principally by temporary connections between adjacent rivers during periods of lower sea level, yet instances of dispersal via interbasin river captures are not excluded. During high sea level intervals, the isolated populations would have diverged leading to the observed allopatric species. This evolutionary process is named the sea level fluctuation (SLF) hypothesis of diversification.
Exploring the likelihood and mechanism of a climate-change-induced dieback of the Amazon rainforest.	We examine the evidence for the possibility that 21st-century climate change may cause a large-scale "dieback" or degradation of Amazonian rainforest. We employ a new framework for evaluating the rainfall regime of tropical forests and from this deduce precipitation-based boundaries for current forest viability. We then examine climate simulations by 19 global climate models (GCMs) in this context and find that most tend to underestimate current rainfall. GCMs also vary greatly in their projections of future climate change in Amazonia. We attempt to take into account the differences between GCM-simulated and observed rainfall regimes in the 20th century. Our analysis suggests that dry-season water stress is likely to increase in E. Amazonia over the 21st century, but the region tends toward a climate more appropriate to seasonal forest than to savanna. These seasonal forests may be resilient to seasonal drought but are likely to face intensified water stress caused by higher temperatures and to be vulnerable to fires, which are at present naturally rare in much of Amazonia. The spread of fire ignition associated with advancing deforestation, logging, and fragmentation may act as nucleation points that trigger the transition of these seasonal forests into fire-dominated, low biomass forests. Conversely, deliberate limitation of deforestation and fire may be an effective intervention to maintain Amazonian forest resilience in the face of imposed 21st-century climate change. Such intervention may be enough to navigate E. Amazonia away from a possible "tipping point," beyond which extensive rainforest would become unsustainable.
Suboptimal performance of IgG anti-tissue transglutaminase in the diagnosis of celiac disease in a tropical country.	Serological tests using human IgA-anti-tTG have been reported to have high sensitivity and specificity in diagnosis of celiac disease. There is a paucity of data on the use of human IgG-anti-tTG in diagnosis of celiac disease. Ninety-two patients with clinical suspicion of celiac disease who underwent duodenal mucosal biopsy and celiac serology using human IgG-anti-tTG were included in this retrospective study. Diagnostic accuracy of human recombinant IgG-anti-tTG serological test for celiac disease was evaluated. Indications for celiac serological testing were diarrhea (92.3%), hypoalbuminemia (39.1%), and anemia (35.9%). Eighteen patients were diagnosed with having celiac disease and 14 (77.8%) of them were IgG-anti-tTG positive. Of the remaining 74 patients, eight (10.8%) were false-positive for IgG-anti-tTG. Sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV, and diagnostic accuracy of IgG-anti-tTG in celiac disease were 77.8, 89.1, 63.6, 94.2, and 87%, respectively. Human IgG-anti-tTG alone does not perform well as a diagnostic tool for celiac disease. The utility of anti-endomysial antibodies in a similar clinical setting needs to be evaluated.
Some recent advances in non-communicable diseases in the Tropics. 1. Hypertension: an emerging problem in tropical countries.	With increasing urbanization, hypertension and its complications are becoming major health problems in many tropical countries. In particular, hypertension is a major cause of illness in black Africans. There is good evidence that an increasing dietary salt intake is partly responsible for this rising incidence of hypertension and possibly restriction of salt may help in prevention. The public health requirements for the prevention, detection and management of hypertension are likely to consume scarce resources in countries where life expectancy is gradually rising due to improved control of communicable disease and malnutrition. Failure to address the problem of hypertension could have serious effects on morbidity and mortality of economically active individuals in developing countries.
Some recent advances in non-communicable diseases in the tropics. 2. Diabetes mellitus in the tropics.	Diabetes mellitus occurs in all parts of the world, but with striking differences in prevalence and mode of presentation. This article considers the epidemiology of diabetes world-wide and specifically the pattern of diabetes in the tropics which appears to differ from that seen in Europe and the USA. Detailed epidemiological studies will help both in understanding diabetes pathogenesis and in rational management of this very important and common disease.
Some recent advances in non-communicable diseases in the tropics. 3. Coronary heart disease and associated characteristics in a tropical developing community.	Vital statistics indicate that cardiovascular disorders are now major causes of morbidity and mortality in many Caribbean communities. In Trinidad and Tobago, for example, the death rate from myocardial infarction is now similar to that in the UK and USA. In a 10-year prospective survey of 1386 men aged 35 to 69 years at entry, who belonged to a defined community in Port-of Spain, Trinidad, serum high-density (HDL) and low-density (LDL) lipoprotein cholesterol concentrations were very similar to those found by the same methods in Bristol, England. The age-adjusted incidence of first coronary heart disease (CHD) events in men clinically free of the disease at recruitment (per 1000 person-years) was 16.4 in men of Indian descent, 6.8 in those of African origin, 6.2 in those of European origin, and 2.4 in men of mixed descent (the contemporaneous figure for Bristol was about 12/1000 person-years). Serum HDL and LDL cholesterol concentrations were strong and independent predictors of CHD in Trinidad, as they are in temperate climes. With effective control of tropical infectious diseases, and adoption of western patterns of consumerism, tropical developing communities will rapidly acquire the CHD risk factor status once more or less exclusive to developed populations in more temperate climes.
Cerebral cysticercosis]	A Danish woman aged 28 years who had travelled in the Far East developed cerebral symptoms with headache and visual disturbances. Migraine was suspected. Subsequent CT scanning revealed multiple processes and metastases were suspected. As the patient had travelled in the Far East 1 1/2 years previously, she was examined for neurocysticercosis. This diagnosis was established and the patient was successfully treated with praziquantel. On account of increased travelling activity, the possibility of neurocysticercosis should be borne in mind when dealing with patients with cerebral symptoms and relevant travelling histories.
The prognosis of the adaptational potentials in servicemen of different constitutional types]	The authors study the influence of tropical and high-mountain climate upon the process of one-month adaptation for two groups of servicemen. It was ascertained that there were statistic differences in many cardiovascular indexes of servicemen with various constitution type after measured physical load, although none of that changes were detected in ordinary conditions. This prognostication gives the possibility to make a more precise estimate of professional capability of man, determine the individuals with increased tendency towards dysadaptational disorders, and carry out a proper complex of prophylactic measures.
Immunoglobulin E in the feces of children and adolescents from some tropical and subtropical countries.	Eighteen of 27 individuals, aged from 6 months to 19 years (mean 5 years, 7 months), from countries in the tropics or the subtropics had either intestinal parasitic infestations or intestinal enteropathogenic bacterial infections or both. Fourteen of those with intestinal pathogens had detectable concentrations of IgE in their fecal extracts, ranging from less than 0.5 to 420 IU/ml extract (mean 33 IU/ml). This rate of occurrence was significantly higher than the number of IgE-positive fecal extracts in a group of 54 healthy nonallergic Norwegian children (p less than 0.001), but did not differ from that of a group of 40 allergic children (p greater than 0.20). The individuals with intestinal helminthic infection had the highest fecal IgE concentrations. Of the 9 individuals who did not have any demonstrable intestinal pathogen, low concentrations of IgE could be detected in feces from only 2, which did not differ from the rate in the healthy Norwegian controls. The concentrations of IgE in the feces of the subjects from tropical/subtropical regions correlated linearly with the corresponding serum concentrations of IgE (r = 0.69; p less than 0.001). The results indicate that the combined load of intestinal pathogens, including helminths, protozoa, and enteropathogenic bacteria, may stimulate IgE production in the gut.
Persistence of metsulfuron-methyl in paddy field and detection of its residues in crop produce.	Among sulfonylurea herbicides, metsulfuron-methyl [methyl 2-(4-methoxy-6-methyl-1,3,5-triazine-2-ylcarbamoylsulfamoyl) benzoic acid] is widely used due to its selectivity against a wide range of weeds in cereal, pasture, and plantation crops. Use of persistent herbicides has increased risk of accumulation of residues in soil, groundwater, crop produce, food chain etc. Thus an experiment was conducted to see persistence of metsulfuron-methyl in paddy field under tropical conditions. Metsulfuron-methyl was applied at 2, 4, 5, and 8 a.i. g ha−1 rates after 25 days in transplanted rice as post emergence herbicide. Concentration of metsulfuron-methyl in soil at 30 days was found 0.008, 0.010, 0.011 and 0.016 μg g−1 at 2, 4, 5 and 8 g a.i. ha−1 application rates, respectively. However, residue level of metsulfuron-methyl in soil, rice grains and straw at harvest was found below 0.001 μg g−1.
Investigation of the mud crab (Scylla serrata) as a potential bio-monitoring species for tropical coastal marine environments of Australia.	Mud crabs, Scylla serrata, were sampled from four estuaries (the Normanby, Herbert, Burdekin and Fitzroy Rivers) along the coast of northern Queensland, Australia, representing a pollution gradient from low to high contamination based upon previous chemical monitoring. Four biomarkers; glutathione-S-transferase (GST) activity, cholinesterase (ChE) inhibition and the urinary metabolite concentrations of naphthalene (NPH) and benzo-a-pyrene (BaP) were evaluated in S. serrata hepatopancreas, haemolymph and urine. Site-specific evidence of elevated GST activity and BaP metabolite concentrations and significant ChE inhibition was detected. Biomarker responses from this field study provide evidence of contaminant exposure of S. serrata from river estuaries along the coast of northern Queensland and indicate that further investigation is warranted. Based on the current results, and with further work on characterising the dose-response and seasonal variation in this species, mud crabs have great potential as indicator species for water quality and ecosystem monitoring programs across tropical coastal regions of Australia.
Are lowland rainforests really evolutionary museums? Phylogeography of the green hylia (Hylia prasina) in the Afrotropics.	A recent trend in the literature highlights the special role that tropical montane regions and habitat transitions peripheral to large blocks of lowland rainforest play in the diversification process. The emerging view is one of lowland rainforests as evolutionary 'museums'; where biotic diversity is maintained over evolutionary time, and additional diversity is accrued from peripheral areas, but where there has been little recent diversification. This leads to the prediction of genetic diversity without geographic structure in widespread taxa. Here, I assess the notion of the lowland rainforest 'museum' with a phylogeographic study of the green hylia (Aves: Sylviidae: Hylia prasina) using 1132 bp of mtDNA sequence data. The distribution of genetic diversity within the mainland subspecies of Hylia reveals five highly divergent haplotype groups distributed in accordance with broad-scale areas of endemism in the Afrotropics. This pattern of genetic diversity within a currently described subspecies refutes the characterization of lowland forests as evolutionary museums. If the pattern of geographic variation in Hylia occurs broadly in widespread rainforest species, conservation policy makers may need to rethink their priorities for conservation in the Afrotropics.
Deviation from strict homeostasis across multiple trophic levels  in an invertebrate consumer assemblage exposed to high chronic  phosphorus enrichment in a Neotropical stream.	A central tenet of ecological stoichiometry is that consumer elemental composition is relatively independent of food resource nutrient content. Although the P content of some invertebrate consumer taxa can increase as a consequence of P-enriched food resources, little is known about how ecosystem nutrient loading can affect the elemental composition of entire consumer assemblages. Here we examine the potential for P enrichment across invertebrate consumer assemblages in response to chronic high P loading. We measured elemental ratios in invertebrate consumers and basal food resources in a series of streams in lowland Costa Rica that range widely in P levels (2-135 microg l(-1) soluble reactive P). Streams with high P levels receive natural long-term (over millennia) inputs of solute-rich groundwater while low-P streams do not receive these solute-rich groundwater inputs. P content of leaf litter and epilithon increased fourfold across the natural P gradient, exceeding basal resource P content values reported in the literature from other nutrient-rich streams. Invertebrate consumers from the high-P study stream were elevated twofold in P content across multiple taxonomic and functional feeding groups, including predators. Our results strongly support the hypothesis that elevated P content in consumers feeding on P-enriched food resources is a consequence of deviation from strict homeostasis. In contrast to prior studies, we found that between-stream variation in P content of a given taxon greatly exceeded within-stream variation among different taxa, suggesting that environment may be as important as phylogeny in controlling consumer stoichiometry. Relaxing the assumption of strict homeostasis presents challenges and opportunities for advancing our understanding of how nutrient limitation affects consumer growth. Moreover, our findings may provide a window into the future of how chronic anthropogenic nutrient loading can alter stoichiometric relationships in food webs.
Two vicariant Semispathidium species from tropical Africa and central Europe: S. fraterculum nov. spec. and S. pulchrum nov. spec. (Ciliophora, Haptorida).	Using standard methods, we describe two new Semispathidium species from semiterrestrial habitats of tropical Africa and central Europe. Semispathidium fraterculum nov. spec. and S. pulchrum nov. spec. differ from each other and from two Namibian (Southwest African) congeners by body size, the shape and location of the extrusomes; the shape of the macronucleus, the number of ciliary rows, the number of cilia within the rows, and the number of dikinetids comprising the dorsal brush rows. The globular resting cyst of S. fraterculum is unique in having countless granules on the inside of the external layer, forming sharp-angled rows. The distribution of these and two further, not yet described south African species indicates that the genus Semispathidium evolved in subtropical Africa. Semispathidium fraterculum and S. pulchrum are highly similar, both morphologically and ecologically, differing in mainly one important feature: the shape and location of the extrusomes used for prey capture. This suggests that they evolved from a common ancestor whose areal was divided by a vicariant event, causing an independent evolution of the split populations. We argue that this and other species pairs indicate that the vicariance speciation model is applicable to protists.
Limb muscles are androgen targets in an acrobatic tropical bird.	Spectacular athleticism is a conspicuous feature of many animal courtship displays yet surprisingly little is known about androgen dependence of skeletal muscles underlying these displays. Testosterone (T) acts through androgen receptors (ARs) to stimulate muscular male Golden-collared manakins of Panama to perform a remarkably athletic courtship display that includes loud wingsnaps generated by the rapid and forceful lifting of the wings. We tested the hypothesis that androgen sensitivity, reflected in the expression levels of AR mRNA, is a muscular adaptation supporting these courtship displays. Quantitative PCR showed substantially greater AR mRNA expression in all limb muscles of wild male and female manakins compared with two other avian species that do not perform athletic displays, zebra finches and ochre-bellied flycatchers. AR expression levels in the massive skeletal muscles were comparable with the minute oscine syringeal muscle but greater than levels in nonmuscular androgen targets that did not differ across species. Compared with zebra finches, male manakins also had greater activity of the T-activating enzyme 5 alpha-reductase in a wing-lifting muscle. In addition, low levels of estrogen receptor alpha (ER) mRNA were detected in all muscles of control, T-treated, and estradiol-treated manakins. Treatment of manakins with T, but not estradiol, significantly increased skeletal muscle ER expression, suggesting that ER expression is AR-dependent. These results confirm manakin limb muscles as important androgen targets where T may act to promote the speed, force, and/or endurance required for the manakin display. Androgen-sensitive muscular phenotypes may adapt males of many species to perform impressive athletic displays.
Chemical analysis and screening as anticancer agent of anthocyanin-rich extract from Uva Caimarona ( Pourouma cecropiifolia Mart.) fruit.	The anthocyanin-rich extract (ARE) of the fruit from Pourouma cecropiifolia , a tropical plant native to the Amazon region, showed moderate cytotoxicity toward different cancer cell lines when evaluated by MTT assays. This extract was fractionated using Sephadex LH-20 chromatography to obtain three fractions (F1-F3), the composition of which was analyzed by HPLC-PDA and LC-ESI/MS. F1 was composed primarily of the monomeric anthocyanins delphinidin-3-O-beta-glucopyranoside, cyanidin-3-O-beta-glucopyranoside, and cyanidin-3-O-(6''-malonyl)glucopyranoside. F2 contained the isomeric flavonols quercetin 3-O-alpha-rhamnopyranosyl-(1-->6)-beta-galactopyranoside and quercetin 3-O-alpha-rhamnopyranosyl-(1-->6)-beta-glucopyranoside, the structures of which were confirmed by (1)H and (13)C NMR. F3 contained polymeric pigments, which were analyzed using tandem ESI/MS with an ion trap-TOF. The structures of two proanthocyanidin and two flavanol-anthocyanin condensed pigments were suggested on the basis of their MS(n) fragmentation patterns. After cell viability assays were performed, only fraction F3 showed a cell growth-inhibitory effect similar to the one found for ARE. F3 significantly reduced the viability of HEp-2 larynx, MKN-45 gastric carcinoma, and MCF-7 breast cancer cells; in contrast, the pure compounds did not show promising cytotoxicity toward the cancer cells evaluated.
Step process for selecting and testing surrogates and indicators of afrotemperate forest invertebrate diversity.	The diversity and complexity of invertebrate communities usually result in their exclusion from conservation activities. Here we provide a step process for assessing predominantly ground-dwelling Afrotemperate forest invertebrates' (earthworms, centipedes, millipedes, ants, molluscs) potential as surrogates for conservation and indicators for monitoring. We also evaluated sampling methods (soil and litter samples, pitfall traps, active searching quadrats and tree beating) and temporal (seasonal) effects.
Effects of dietary supplementation of rumen-protected conjugated linoleic acid to grazing cows in early lactation.	Conjugated linoleic acids (CLA) are potent anticarcinogens in animal and in vitro models as well as inhibitors of fatty acid synthesis in mammary gland, liver, and adipose tissue. Our objective was to evaluate long-term CLA supplementation of lactating dairy cows in tropical pasture on milk production and composition and residual effects posttreatment. Thirty crossbred cows grazing stargrass (Cynodon nlemfuensis Vanderyst var. nlemfüensis) were blocked by parity and received 150 g/d of a dietary fat supplement of either Ca-salts of palm oil fatty acids (control) or a mixture of Ca-salts of CLA (CLA treatment). Supplements of fatty acids were mixed with 4 kg/d of concentrate. Grazing plus supplements were estimated to provide 115% of the estimated metabolizable protein requirements from 28 to 84 d in milk (treatment period). The CLA supplement provided 15 g/d of cis-9,trans-11 and 22g of cis-10,trans-12. Residual effects were evaluated from 85 to 112 d in milk (residual period) when cows were fed an 18% crude protein concentrate without added fat. The CLA treatment increased milk production but reduced milk fat concentration from 2.90 to 2.14% and fat production from 437 to 348 g/d. Milk protein concentration increased by 11.5% (2.79 to 3.11%) and production by 19% (422 to 504 g/d) in the cows fed CLA. The CLA treatment decreased milk energy concentration and increased milk volume, resulting in unchanged energy output. Milk production and protein concentration and production were also greater during the residual period for the CLA-treated cows. The CLA treatment reduced production of fatty acids (FA) of all chain lengths, but the larger effect was on short-chain FA, causing a shift toward a greater content of longer chain FA. The CLA treatment increased total milk CLA content by 30% and content of the trans-10,cis-12 CLA isomer by 88%. The CLA treatment tended to decrease the number of days open, suggesting a possible effect on reproduction. Under tropical grazing conditions, in a nutritionally challenging environment, CLA-treated cows decreased milk fat content and secreted the same amount of milk energy by increasing milk volume and milk protein production.
Spatial distribution of dominant arboreal ants in a malagasy coastal rainforest: gaps and presence of an invasive species.	We conducted a survey along three belt transects located at increasing distances from the coast to determine whether a non-random arboreal ant assemblage, such as an ant mosaic, exists in the rainforest on the Masoala Peninsula, Madagascar. In most tropical rainforests, very populous colonies of territorially dominant arboreal ant species defend absolute territories distributed in a mosaic pattern. Among the 29 ant species recorded, only nine had colonies large enough to be considered potentially territorially dominant; the remaining species had smaller colonies and were considered non-dominant. Nevertheless, the null-model analyses used to examine the spatial structure of their assemblages did not reveal the existence of an ant mosaic. Inland, up to 44% of the trees were devoid of dominant arboreal ants, something not reported in other studies. While two Crematogaster species were not associated with one another, Brachymyrmex cordemoyi was positively associated with Technomyrmex albipes, which is considered an invasive species-a non-indigenous species that has an adverse ecological effect on the habitats it invades. The latter two species and Crematogaster ranavalonae were mutually exclusive. On the other hand, all of the trees in the coastal transect and at least 4 km of coast were occupied by T. albipes, and were interconnected by columns of workers. Technomyrmex albipes workers collected from different trees did not attack each other during confrontation tests, indicating that this species has formed a supercolony along the coast. Yet interspecific aggressiveness did occur between T. albipes and Crematogaster ranavalonae, a native species which is likely territorially dominant based on our intraspecific confrontation tests. These results suggest that the Masoala rainforest is threatened by a potential invasion by T. albipes, and that the penetration of this species further inland might be facilitated by the low density of native, territorially dominant arboreal ants normally able to limit its progression.
Nest relocation and high mortality rate in a Neotropical social wasp: Impact of an exceptionally rainy La Niña year.	After noting the forecast of a La Niña episode, associated with heavy rainfall in French Guiana, we monitored the fate of wasp nests before and during the 2006 short rainy season. The population of the most abundant epiponine wasp species, Polybia bistriata, decreased dramatically during the short rainy season (60.6% of the nests disappeared) then remained low for at least 18 months. Colonies that survived moved from the shelter of large, low leaves (a situation well adapted to the previous dry season) of the most frequent substrate tree, Clusia grandiflora (Clusiaceae), to upper leaves, better ventilated and whose orientation provides good protection from the rain. Therefore, the possibility of moving the nest higher during the first rains following the dry season seems very adaptive as colonies that do not do so are eliminated during the La Niña years, whose frequency will increase with global climate change.
The disrupted pattern of distribution of the genus Hadrurochactas Pocock; evidence of past connections between Amazon and the Brazilian Atlantic forest.	A new species, Hadrurochactas araripe sp. n. (Chactidae) is described from 'Chapada do Araripe', a 'Brejo type' formation located in the State of Pernambuco, Brazil. The description of the new species confirms a disrupted pattern of distribution presented by the genus Hadrurochactas. This includes species present both in Guiano-Amazon forests and forest islands within the 'Caatingas'. These are xerophytic formations in northeastern Brazil. This new species brings further evidence of a past connection between the Amazonian and Atlantic forests, as already suggested by palaeobotanists.
How habitat disturbance benefits geckos: Conservation implications.	I here provide some field observations and literature data showing that egg laying site availability could be the main limiting factor for most arboreal gecko population dynamics. Several natural (typhoons, volcanism, sea level variations) or human-mediated habitat modifications (garden openings in forested areas) provide enough habitat disturbances to significantly increase reproductive outputs in island gecko populations. Such observations, however, also apply to continental populations. Our observations suggest that artificial shelter and egg laying site creation could easily allow populations to increase and also supply easier access to arboreal species for ecological or biodiversity studies. Furthermore, our observations also point out that occurrence in man-made habitats and genetic uniformity of most widespread island lizards should not be considered as evidence of their recent introduction through human agency.
Tropical cyclones and permanent El Niño in the early Pliocene epoch.	Tropical cyclones (also known as hurricanes and typhoons) are now believed to be an important component of the Earth's climate system. In particular, by vigorously mixing the upper ocean, they can affect the ocean's heat uptake, poleward heat transport, and hence global temperatures. Changes in the distribution and frequency of tropical cyclones could therefore become an important element of the climate response to global warming. A potential analogue to modern greenhouse conditions, the climate of the early Pliocene epoch (approximately 5 to 3 million years ago) can provide important clues to this response. Here we describe a positive feedback between hurricanes and the upper-ocean circulation in the tropical Pacific Ocean that may have been essential for maintaining warm, El Niño-like conditions during the early Pliocene. This feedback is based on the ability of hurricanes to warm water parcels that travel towards the Equator at shallow depths and then resurface in the eastern equatorial Pacific as part of the ocean's wind-driven circulation. In the present climate, very few hurricane tracks intersect the parcel trajectories; consequently, there is little heat exchange between waters at such depths and the surface. More frequent and/or stronger hurricanes in the central Pacific imply greater heating of the parcels, warmer temperatures in the eastern equatorial Pacific, warmer tropics and, in turn, even more hurricanes. Using a downscaling hurricane model, we show dramatic shifts in the tropical cyclone distribution for the early Pliocene that favour this feedback. Further calculations with a coupled climate model support our conclusions. The proposed feedback should be relevant to past equable climates and potentially to contemporary climate change.
Cyanobacteria-containing biofilms from a Mayan monument in Palenque, Mexico.	Surfaces of buildings at the archaeological site of Palenque, Mexico, are colonized by cyanobacteria that form biofilms, which in turn cause aesthetic and structural damage. The structural characterization and species composition of biofilms from the walls of one of these buildings, El Palacio, are reported. The distribution of photosynthetic microorganisms in the biofilms, their relationship with the colonized substratum, and the three-dimensional structure of the biofilms were studied by image analysis. The differences between local seasonal microenvironments at the Palenque site, the bioreceptivity of stone and the relationship between biofilms and their substrata are described. The implications for the development and permanence of species capable of withstanding temporal heterogeneity in and on El Palacio, mainly due to alternating wet and dry seasons, are discussed. Knowledge on how different biofilms contribute to biodegradation or bioprotection of the substratum can be used to develop maintenance and conservation protocols for cultural heritage.
The effect of an extract from Cochlospermum angolense ("Burututu") on Plasmodium berghei in the mouse malaria suppression test]	Often existing cross-resistance to structure analogous antimalarials causes the need to find new active compounds against malaria parasites. For this purpose the traditional medicine of tropical countries has proved to be a treasury. A root extract of Cochlospermum angolense showed in vitro a remarkable activity against Plasmodium berghei in the DNA synthesis measurement with 3H-labelled hypoxanthine. This effect could be reproduced under in vivo conditions with the "4-day suppressive test" of rodent malaria.
Morphology of rectal mucosa of patients with shigellosis.	Biopsy specimens of rectal mucosa from 46 consecutive patients with dysentery, from whom shigellae were isolated, were examined. On examination it appeared that the specialized epithelial cells overlying lymphoid follicles were the first to be damaged, and subsequently a vascular lesion led to detachment of epithelial cells. The vascular lesion was widespread in the lamina propria mucosae. Extensive ulceration was associated with invasion of epithelial cells by the organism. There was marked depletion of mucus and an increase in mitotic activity in the crypts. Abscesses of the crypts were rare. The only difference between patients from whom the Shiga bacillus was isolated and patients from whom other shigellae were isolated was a higher prevalence of epithelial cell detachment and luminal exudate. In patients who had been ill for greater than 1 week, cell damage of the crypts was associated with cell-mediated cytolysis, a release of cytotoxic substances from eosinophils and mast cells, and relative vascular insufficiency, all of which may contribute to persistence of dysentery.
Patents on periphery of the Amazon rainforest.	In the humid tropics, on the edges of the Amazon forest, the technological challenges to establishing and maintaining productive and sustainable agricultural systems have yet to be overcome. The groups involved in agriculture in the north of Brazil still engage in the practice of slash and burn in order to prepare and fertilize the soil. This produces negative effects for the local and global environment, without the counter-effect of providing social benefits to rural communities. Whether this process continues is of fundamental importance to many countries because it means that slash and burn agriculture is advancing on the Amazon rainforest, with a negative effect on every dimension of national policy. Beyond social political problems the biggest challenge for researchers in the field of tropical agriculture is to offer technological alternatives that can sustain agriculture in soils derived from sedimentary rocks that have been subjected to a high degree of weathering. In this article patented information is also discussed. Experiments undertaken in this region recommend taking advantage of the rapid growth of plants in the tropics. We aimed at proposing a suitable alternative system for a sustainable soil management in the particular conditions of humid tropics, named as "no-till in alley cropping using tree leguminous mulch." This system offers the advantages of: bringing together, in the same space and at the same time, the processes of cultivation and the regeneration of soil fertility.
Risks of tropical diseases becoming established in Europe]	To become established in new populations, pathogens must amplify and spread within their host species, thereby creating a transmission focus. The conditions necessary for successful implantation depend on the nature of the microorganism and its mode of transmission. The establishment of a tropical infectious disease requires a combination of environmental and human factors, as well as favorable ecological conditions. This complex interplay, in which humans have an increasingly influential role, makes it difficult to predict which pathogens are most at risk. Despite the increasing frequency of introductions, few new pathogens become established in Europe. We must prepare for these unpredictable events by perfecting clinical, microbiological and entomological surveillance networks and rapid detection systems.
Risk of importation of tropical diseases in metropolitan France: dectection, alert, response]	The French public health institute is responsible for promoting and coordinating threats the detection and assessment of health risks, and for suggesting possible responses. Transmissible diseases affecting both human and animal health are the focus of surveillance networks. Early detection of potential infectious threats is based on the screening of "alert signals" identified through routine surveillance networks and other systems. The quality and accuracy of these signals is first verified, before assessing, through a multidisciplinary approach, the risk of introduction and dissemination. This article examines specific cases illustrating the process of detection, risk analysis and response, with respect to infectious threats that are endemic in tropical regions and have the potential to be imported into metropolitan France. For both novel pathogens and exotic diseases--which, not being endemic in France, are less well known--the analysis and response process must regularly be adapted to the latest epidemiological, clinical and biological findings, taking interactions between the pathogen, host, and environment into consideration. The need to improve reaction times and risk assessment is also discussed.
A regional perspective on the diversity and conservation of tropical Andean fishes.	The tropical Andes harbor an extraordinarily varied concentration of species in a landscape under increasing pressure from human activities. Conservation of the region's native plants and animals has received considerable international attention, but the focus has been on terrestrial biota. The conservation of freshwater fauna, particularly the conservation of fishes, has not been emphasized. Tropical Andean fishes are among the most understudied vertebrates in the world. We estimate that between 400 and 600 fish species inhabit the diverse aquatic environments in the region. Nearly 40% of these species are endemic. Tropical Andean fishes are vulnerable to ongoing environmental changes related to deforestation, water withdrawals, water pollution, species introductions, and hydropower development. Additionally, their distributions and population dynamics may be affected by hydrologic alterations and warmer water temperatures associated with projected climate change. Presently, at least three species are considered extinct, some populations are endangered, and some species are likely to decline or disappear. The long-term persistence of tropical Andean fishes will depend on greater consideration of freshwater systems in regional conservation initiatives.
Variation in prey selection of a piscivorous fish after the impoundment of a neotropical reservoir: prey size and type.	The relative abundance and size of prey fish in the stomachs of the predator Acestrorhynchus pantaneiro were compared with those recorded in the field to estimate prey selection. Fish samples were taken monthly in the Manso Reservoir (State of Mato Grosso, Brazil) immediately after the impoundment, from March 2000 to February 2001 (period I) and from March 2003 to February 2004 (period II). In period I, the small relative dominance of the prey in the environment seemed to have lead to random foraging. In period II, however, when the forage fish Moenkhausia dichroura was dominant in the environment, the predator shifted its diet, foraging mainly on this prey. Species with short relative body depth were positively selected. The prey size classes between 30 and 49 mm, and 50 and 69 mm standard length (L(S)) were the most abundant in the environment. Small prey were predominantly selected by A. pantaneiro. Even when a given prey or prey size was predominant in the environment, A. pantaneiro was a selective predator and maintained its preferences associated to prey type and L(S), although it consumed the most abundant resource.
Comparative biogeography of Chromobacterium from the neotropics.	The genus Chromobacterium encompasses free-living Gram-negative bacteria. Until 2007, the genus consisted of only one species but six species are now recognized. Chromobacterium violaceum is the type species of the genus and is commonly found in soil and water in tropical and sub-tropical regions. We have investigated a collection of 111 isolates displaying violet pigmentation from undisturbed aquatic and soil environments from Brazilian Cerrado ecosystem. The 16S rRNA gene phylogeny revealed that all isolates were allocated in a monophyletic cluster inside the Chromobacterium genus and formed few clusters related most closely with Chromobacterium piscinae. The two sets of isolates from water and soil were analyzed by the repetitive extragenic palindromic (rep)-PCR genomic fingerprinting technique using a BOX-AR1 primer. The antimicrobial susceptibility and the different carbon sources utilized by these isolates were also investigated. Physiological profiles of the isolates generated by BIOLOG GN2 plates showed great versatility in the substrate utilization, much higher than the C. violaceum ATCC 12472. All isolates exhibited a high minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) to ampicillin (MIC > 512 μg/ml) and were inhibited by ciprofloxacin, tetracycline and mercury at the lowest concentration tested (MIC < 2 μg/ml). Thirteen BOX-PCR band patterns were identified from 33 individual fingerprints. Eleven patterns provided evidence for endemic distributions. Antimicrobial susceptibility and BOX-PCR fingerprint clustering showed a clear distinction between Chromobacterium isolates from the water and soil. The results suggested that microenvironment barriers such as water and soil can play an important role in the periodic selection and diversification of Chromobacterium population ecotypes.
Can we predict carbon stocks in tropical ecosystems from tree diversity? Comparing species and functional diversity in a plantation and a natural forest.	• Linking tree diversity to carbon storage can provide further motivation to conserve tropical forests and to design carbon-enriched plantations. Here, we examine the role of tree diversity and functional traits in determining carbon storage in a mixed-species plantation and in a natural tropical forest in Panama. • We used species richness, functional trait diversity, species dominance and functional trait dominance to predict tree carbon storage across these two forests. Then we compared the species ranking based on wood density, maximum diameter, maximum height, and leaf mass per area (LMA) between sites to reveal how these values changed between different forests. • Increased species richness, a higher proportion of nitrogen fixers and species with low LMA increased carbon storage in the mixed-species plantation, while a higher proportion of large trees and species with high LMA increased tree carbon storage in the natural forest. Furthermore, we found that tree species varied greatly in their absolute and relative values between study sites. • Different results in different forests mean that we cannot easily predict carbon storage capacity in natural forests using data from experimental plantations. Managers should be cautious when applying functional traits measured in natural populations in the design of carbon-enriched plantations.
Controlled study on enteropathogens in travellers returning from the tropics with and without diarrhoea.	Diarrhoea is the most frequent health problem among travellers in the tropics. However, data on the spectrum and relevance of enteropathogens in international travellers with and without diarrhoea are limited. Stool samples from 114 cases of diarrhoea in travellers returning from the tropics were collected for microbiological examination and PCR for norovirus genogroups I and II, enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC), and enterotoxigenic E. coli (ETEC) producing heat-labile toxin (LT) and heat-stable toxin (ST). Travel and laboratory data of cases were compared with those of 56 travellers without diarrhoea. Among cases, EAEC was found in 45% of stool samples, followed by LT-ETEC (20%), ST-ETEC (16%), Blastocystis hominis (15%), Campylobacter jejuni (12%), norovirus (11%), Giardia lamblia (6%), Shigella spp. (6%), and Salmonella spp., Cryptosporidium spp., and Cyclospora cayetanensis (3% each). However, only for EAEC, ST-ETEC, Blastocystis and Campylobacter was the prevalence significantly higher among cases than among controls. Co-infections were common: 61% for cases and 13% for controls. The most common travel destination was Asia (54%), followed by Africa (35%) and Latin America (9%). The highest relative risk for diarrhoea was calculated for travellers to West Africa, East Africa, and South Asia. In this study, EAEC, LT-ETEC and ST-ETEC were detected most frequently in cases of travellers' diarrhoea. Although enteric infections with EAEC, ST-ETEC and Campylobacter often cause diarrhoea, the pathogenetic relevance remains unclear for most of the other enteropathogens, because of significant prevalence rates also being seen in controls without diarrhoea and the high frequency of co-infections.
The sensitivity of tropical leaf litter decomposition to temperature: results from a large-scale leaf translocation experiment along an elevation gradient in Peruvian forests.	• We present the results from a litter translocation experiment along a 2800-m elevation gradient in Peruvian tropical forests. The understanding of the environmental factors controlling litter decomposition is important in the description of the carbon and nutrient cycles of tropical ecosystems, and in predicting their response to long-term increases in temperature. • Samples of litter from 15 species were transplanted across all five sites in the study, and decomposition was tracked over 448 d. • Species' type had a large influence on the decomposition rate (k), most probably through its influence on leaf quality and morphology. When samples were pooled across species and elevations, soil temperature explained 95% of the variation in the decomposition rate, but no direct relationship was observed with either soil moisture or rainfall. The sensitivity of the decay rate to temperature (κ(T)) varied seven-fold across species, between 0.024 and 0.169 °C⁻¹, with a mean value of 0.118 ± 0.009 °C⁻¹ (SE). This is equivalent to a temperature sensitivity parameter (Q₁₀) for litter decay of 3.06 ± 0.28, higher than that frequently assumed for heterotrophic processes. • Our results suggest that the warming of approx. 0.9 °C experienced in the region in recent decades may have increased decomposition and nutrient mineralization rates by c. 10%.
The effects of low levels of dietary trace minerals on the plasma levels, faecal excretion, health and performance of pigs in a hot African climate.	The present study was performed in order to evaluate the effects of lower than usual industry levels of dietary trace minerals on plasma levels, faecal excretion, performance, mortality and morbidity in growing-finishing pigs in a hot African climate. Group 1 (n = 100 pigs) received a diet with common industry levels of trace minerals. Group 2 (n = 100 pigs) received reduced dietary trace mineral levels but were fed the same basic diet as Group 1. Mortality, morbidity, pig performance and carcass measurements were evaluated. Two pigs in Group 1 and three pigs in Group 2 died. Thirteen pigs in Group 1 and 27 pigs in Group 2 were medically treated (P < 0.05). Carcass masses, back fat depth, loin depth, and lean percent were not significantly different between the groups. However, the carcasses when evaluated revealed a non-significant higher back fat thickness, lower loin eye area and percentage of fat-free lean in barrows compared to gilts within each group. Despite lower initial masses, pigs fed diets containing industry levels of trace minerals were heavier (P < 0.05) and had a higher (P< 0.05) than average daily gains compared to those that received a diet containing lower levels of trace minerals. Faecal zinc excretion was significantly lower (P < 0.05) in pigs fed with lower dietary zinc levels. Copper, manganese and iron excretion were not affected (P > 0.05) by the dietary levels of these trace minerals. Plasma trace mineral concentrations were not affected by the dietary treatment.
Environmental status of a tropical lake system.	Eutrophication has become a serious threat to the lake systems all over the world. This is mainly due to the pollution caused by anthropogenic activities. Carlson trophic state index (CTSI) is commonly used for the classification of trophic conditions of surface waters. The study is conducted to assess the trophic status of a tropical lake (Akkulam-Veli lake, Kerala, India) using CTSI based on Secchi disc depth (SD), total phosphorus (TP) and chlorophyll-a. The TSI values based on SD and TP are high (>70), indicating the hypereutrophic state which needs urgent action for the restoration of the fragile ecosystem. The higher TP in both lakes, and the lower value of chlorophyll-a in the Akkulam part, warrant explanation, are discussed here. The influence of other biochemical parameters in both the Akkulam and the Veli part of the lake has been assessed. Correlation analysis is conducted to study the effect of various water quality parameters. The variation in the water quality before and after the opening of sand bar is studied using paired t test. As almost all the lakes in the world are experiencing similar situation of extinction, this study is helpful to have an insight in the hydrochemistry of the lake as well as to identify the worst affected areas of the lakes.
Are all seeds equal? Spatially explicit comparisons of seed fall and sapling recruitment in a tropical forest.	Understanding demographic transitions may provide the key to explain the high diversity of tropical tree communities. In a faunally intact Amazonian forest, we compared the spatial distribution of saplings of 15 common tree species with patterns of conspecific seed fall, and examined the seed-to-sapling transition in relation to locations of conspecific trees. In all species, the spatial pattern of sapling recruitment bore no resemblance to predicted distributions based on the density of seed fall. Seed efficiency (the probability of a seed producing a sapling) is strongly correlated with distance from large conspecific trees, with a >30-fold multiplicative increase between recruitment zones that are most distant vs. proximal to conspecific adults. The striking decoupling of sapling recruitment and conspecific seed density patterns indicates near-complete recruitment failure in areas of high seed density located around reproductive adults. Our results provide strong support for the spatially explicit predictions of the Janzen-Connell hypothesis.
Impact of hydrotalcite deposition on biogeochemical processes in a shallow tropical bay.	The biogeochemistry of a tropical shoal bay (Melville Bay, Australia) impacted by the effluent release, precipitation, and deposition of hydrotalcite from an alumina refinery was studied in both wet and dry seasons. Within the deposition zone, sulfate reduction dominated benthic carbon cycling accounting for ≈100% of total microbial activity, with rates greater than those measured in most other marine sediments. These rapid rates of anoxic metabolism resulted in high rates of sulfide and ammonium production and low C:S ratios, implying significant preservation of S in stable sulfide minerals. Rates of total microbial activity were significantly less in control sediments of equivalent grain size, where sulfate reduction accounted for ≈50% of total benthic metabolism. Rates of planktonic carbon cycling overlying the deposition zone were also greater than those measured in the control areas of southern Melville Bay. At the sediment surface, productive algal and cyanobacterial mats helped stabilize the sediment surface and oxidize sulfide to sulfate to maintain a fully oxygenated water-column overlying the impacted zone. The mats utilized a significant fraction of dissolved inorganic N and P released from the sea bed; some nutrients escaped to the water-column such that benthic regeneration of NH₄+ and PO₄³⁻ accounted for 100% and 42% of phytoplankton requirements for N and P, respectively. These percentages are high compared to other tropical coastal environments and indicate that benthic nutrient recycling may be a significant factor driving water-column production overlying the deposition zone. With regard to remediation, it is recommended that the sea bed not be disturbed as attempts at removal may result in further environmental problems and would require specific assessment of the proposed removal process.
Association between major histocompatibility complex microsatellites, fecal egg count, blood packed cell volume and blood eosinophilia in Pelibuey sheep infected with Haemonchus contortus.	The objective of this study was to assess the correlation among traits associated with resistance or susceptibility to Haemonchus contortus infestation and to evaluate the participation of the ovine major histocompatibility complex (MHC) in Pelibuey sheep, a prevalent breed in tropical and sub-tropical regions in Mexico and elsewhere. Association among the fecal egg count (FEC), blood packed cell volume (PCV), antibody (AB) levels, serum proteins (SP) and blood eosinophil count (EOS) was assessed in 52 lambs experimentally infected with H. contortus, and the participation of the MHC was evaluated using polymorphisms in three microsatellites, located at the class I (OMHC1) and class II (OLADRB1, OLADRB2) regions of the MHC. Spearman correlation analysis among the traits showed a negative association (P<0.01) between FEC and PCV (-0.35), EOS (-0.50), SP (-0.30) and AB (-0.57), and a positive correlation of antibodies with EOS (0.50). The homozygotes for the OMHC1-188 and OLADRB2-282 alleles were associated with a reduction in FEC (-813 and -551, respectively). Conversely, the OMHC1-200 and OMHC1-206 alleles were associated with an increase in FEC (1704 and 1008, respectively). Furthermore, the OLADRB1-482 allele was associated with an increase of 163 EOS by allele copy, while the OMHC1-200 allele showed a reduction of 95 EOS in homozygotes. The associations among microsatellite MHC loci and the remaining variables were not significant. These results reinforce the evidence that MHC polymorphisms have an important role in parasite resistance or susceptibility in Pelibuey sheep and could be used as genetic markers to assist selection and improve parasite resistance to H. contortus.
Fate of fipronil in cotton and soil under tropical climatic conditions.	Field study was carried out to investigate fate of fipronil (Regent 0.3G) in cotton and soil applied at the time of sowing of cotton crop (Variety: H-1117)@56 (T₁) and 112 g a.i.ha⁻¹ (T₂) during kharif season (summer season, from April to November) 2006-07. The residues of fipronil in both the doses dissipated almost completely with in 90 days. Kinetic studies revealed that dissipation of fipronil followed first order kinetics with half-life period of 23.35 days in single dose and 24.31 days in double dose. At the time of harvest, residues in soil, cotton lint and seed were below the quantifiable limit of 0.01 mg kg⁻¹.
Persistence and dissipation of fluopicolide in/on grape berries and soil under semi arid tropical climatic conditions of India.	Fluopicolide, a relatively new fungicide is used for control of downy mildew of grape. Persistence study of fluopicolide was carried out on grape berries following treatment of the combination product, fluopicolide 4.44% + fosetyl aluminium 66.7% (Profiler 71.14 WG) at the recommended and double the recommended dose of 2.5 and 5.0 kg ha⁻¹. Four treatment sprays were given at 15 day intervals, starting from 1 month after pruning of the vines. Residues of fluopicolide in grape berries were estimated on 0 (1 h), 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, 15, 20, 25, 30 day and at harvest (64 days after the last spray application). The initial residue deposits of fluopicolide on grape berries were 0.58 and 1.32 mg kg⁻¹ from treatment at the recommended and double dose, respectively. Dissipation of fluopicolide residues was a slow process. After 30 days of treatment, 0.068 and 0.204 mg kg⁻¹ of residues still remained in the berries from treatment at the recommended and double dose, respectively. Fluopicolide residues in grape berries dissipated with the half-life of 10.2 and 12.3 days. Residues in grape berries and soil at harvest were below the quantifiable limit of 0.01 mg kg⁻¹ from both the treatments.
Serum vitamin D levels in office workers in a subtropical climate.	Vitamin D is necessary to maintain healthy bones, and may prevent other chronic diseases. There is limited information regarding the vitamin D status of people living in climates with relatively high ambient ultraviolet radiation. We therefore aimed to determine serum 25(OH)D levels in a group of office-workers in subtropical Australia. We collected blood from 129 office workers in summer (n = 129) and 175 in winter (91 in both seasons). Serum 25(OH)D was estimated using a commercial chemiluminescent immunoassay and we asked participants to complete questionnaires about sun exposure and diet for the month prior to blood collection. Summer and winter mean serum 25(OH)D was 74 (95% CI 70-77) nmol L(-1) and 54 (95% CI 51-57) nmol L(-1), respectively. In summer, 14% of participants were classed as "insufficient," compared with 51% in winter. High 25(OH)D levels in summer were associated with time spent outdoors in nonpeak UV periods, while in winter high levels were associated with intake of vitamin D from food or supplements. The high prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency observed in this population highlights the need for further examination of the relation between sunlight and vitamin D production to enable more accurate sun exposure recommendations.
The inter-tidal zone is the pathway of input of enterococci to a subtropical recreational marine beach.	Efforts were made to evaluate the source of enterococci levels at a recreational beach. Four monitoring efforts were implemented which included tidal studies, hourly sampling, runoff sampling, and spatially intensive sediment sampling. Spatially intensive sediment sampling indicated that enterococci concentrations consistently decreased away from the inter-tidal zone, both seaward and landward. During dry conditions, the highest concentrations in the water were observed during high tide (71±48 CFU/100 mL) and lower concentrations were observed during low tide (4±3 CFU/100 mL). Runoff was characterised by very high levels (11,700 CFU/100 mL). Results from these monitoring efforts collectively showed that the source of enterococci to the study beach is geographically located within the inter-tidal zone. Wash-in from the inter-tidal zone through tidal action and runoff plays a major role in controlling enterococci levels within the water column. Such results are significant in identifying the source and transport mechanisms of enterococci, which can subsequently be used as part of a modelling effort aimed at predicting enterococci levels at recreational beaches.
The shared preference niche of sympatric Asiatic black bears and sun bears in a tropical forest mosaic.	Ecologically similar species often coexist by partitioning use of habitats or resources. Such partitioning can occur through divergent or shared niches. We investigated overlap in habitat use and spatial co-occurrence by sympatric Asiatic black bears and sun bears in three habitats in Thailand, and thereby assessed which niche model best accounts for their coexistence.
Seed reserve composition in 19 tree species of a tropical deciduous forest in Mexico and its relationship to seed germination and seedling growth.	The size and composition of seed reserves may reflect the ecological strategy and evolutionary history of a species and also temporal variation in resource availability. The seed mass and composition of seed reserves of 19 co-existing tree species were studied, and we examined how they varied among species in relation to germination and seedling growth rates, as well as between two years with contrasting precipitation (652 and 384 mm).
Correlates of species richness in the largest Neotropical amphibian radiation.	Although tropical environments are often considered biodiversity hotspots, it is precisely in such environments where least is known about the factors that drive species richness. Here, we use phylogenetic comparative analyses to study correlates of species richness for the largest Neotropical amphibian radiation: New World direct-developing frogs. Clade-age and species richness were nonsignificantly, negatively correlated, suggesting that clade age alone does not explain among-clade variation in species richness. A combination of ecological and morphological traits explained 65% of the variance in species richness. A more vascularized ventral skin, the ability to colonize high-altitude ranges, encompassing a large variety of vegetation types, correlated significantly with species richness, whereas larger body size was marginally correlated with species richness. Hence, whereas high-altitude ranges play a role in shaping clade diversity in the Neotropics, intrinsic factors, such as skin structures and possibly body size, might ultimately determine which clades are more speciose than others.
Torpor and activity in a free-ranging tropical bat: implications for the distribution and conservation of mammals?	Bats are most diverse in the tropics, but there are no quantitative data on torpor use for energy conservation by any tropical bat in the wild. We examined the thermal biology, activity patterns and torpor use of two tree-roosting long-eared bats (Nyctophilus geoffroyi, 7.8 g) in tropical northern Australia in winter using temperature telemetry. Bats commenced activity about 20 min after sunset, ended activity about 2.5 h before sunrise and entered torpor everyday in the early morning even when minimum ambient temperatures (T (a)) were as high as 23°C. On average, bats remained torpid for almost 5 h, mean minimum skin temperature (T (skin)) measured was 22.8 ± 0.1°C and daily T (skin) minima were correlated with T(a). Our study shows that even in the tropics, torpor is frequently employed by bats, suggesting that worldwide most bat species are heterothermic and use torpor for energy conservation. We propose that the ability of employing torpor and the resulting highly plastic energy requirements may partially explain why these small insectivorous bats can inhabit almost the entire Australian continent despite vastly different climatic and likely trophic conditions. Reduced energy requirements also may permit survival in degraded or modified habitats, reduce the need for foraging and reduce exposure to predators. Thus, the ability to employ torpor may be one important reason for why most Australian bats and other heterothermic mammals have not gone extinct whereas many obligatory homeothermic mammals that cannot employ torpor and have high energy and foraging requirements have suffered high rates of extinctions.
Organochlorine pollution in tropical rivers (Guadeloupe): role of ecological factors in food web bioaccumulation.	Concentrations of organochlorine pesticides and stable isotope ratios of nitrogen and carbon were measured in a tropical freshwater ecosystem to evaluate the contamination level of biota and examine the bioaccumulation patterns of pollutants through the food web. Chemical analyses showed a general and heavy contamination of the entire food web. They revealed the strong accumulation of pollutants by juveniles of diadromous fishes and shrimps, as they re-enter the river. The role of ecological factors in the bioaccumulation of pesticides was evaluated. Whereas the most persistent pollutants (chlordecone and monohydro-chlordecone) were related to the organisms diet and habitat, bioaccumulation of β-HCH was only influenced by animal lipid content. The biomagnification potential of chlordecone through the food chain has been demonstrated. It highlighted the importance of trophic transfer in this compound bioaccumulation process. In contrast, bioconcentration by passive diffusion from water seemed to be the main exposure route of biota to β-HCH.
Seasonal dynamics of cyathostomin (Nematoda - Cyathostominae) infective larvae in Brachiaria humidicola grass in tropical southeast Brazil.	The ecology of cyathostomin larvae was evaluated in different seasons, from July 2007 to June 2008, in the municipality of Seropédica, Rio de Janeiro state, southeastern Brazil. Samples of feces and grass were collected every 15 days at 8 AM and 5 PM and the infective larvae were recovered by the Baermann technique. Leaves of the grass Brachiaria humidicola were cut to 20 cm, which is the length containing most of the larvae. The highest number of larvae was recorded at 8 AM the winter (8300 L(3)kg(-1)dm) and spring (5300 L(3)kg(-1)dm). These results demonstrate that climate conditions can affect the recovery of larvae and that rain and temperature contributed to the migration and survival of the larvae, which were available throughout the year in the study area.
Allergic contact dermatitis from exotic woods: importance of patch-testing with patient-provided samples.	Exotic woods from tropical and subtropical regions (eg, from South America, south Asia, and Africa) frequently are used occupationally and recreationally by woodworkers and hobbyists. These exotic woods more commonly provoke irritant contact dermatitis reactions, but they also can provoke allergic contact dermatitis reactions. We report three patients seen at Mayo Clinic (Rochester, MN) with allergic contact dermatitis reactions to exotic woods. Patch testing was performed and included patient-provided wood samples. Avoidance of identified allergens was recommended. For all patients, the dermatitis cleared or improved after avoidance of the identified allergens. Clinicians must be aware of the potential for allergic contact dermatitis reactions to compounds in exotic woods. Patch testing should be performed with suspected woods for diagnostic confirmation and allowance of subsequent avoidance of the allergens.
Latitudinal gradients in greenhouse seawater δ(18) O: evidence from Eocene sirenian tooth enamel.	The Eocene greenhouse climate state has been linked to a more vigorous hydrologic cycle at mid- and high latitudes; similar information on precipitation levels at low latitudes is, however, limited. Oxygen isotopic fluxes track moisture fluxes and, thus, the δ(18)O values of ocean surface waters can provide insight into hydrologic cycle changes. The offset between tropical δ(18)O values from sampled Eocene sirenian tooth enamel and modern surface waters is greater than the expected 1.0 per mil increase due to increased continental ice volume. This increased offset could result from suppression of surface-water δ(18)O values by a tropical, annual moisture balance substantially wetter than that of today. Results from an atmospheric general circulation model support this interpretation and suggest that Eocene low latitudes were extremely wet.
Diversity and composition of understory vegetation in the tropical seasonal rain forest of Xishuangbanna, SW China.	Tropical forests vegetation and community research have tended to focus on the tree component, and limited attention has been paid to understory vegetation. Species diversity and composition of the understory of tropical seasonal rain forest were inventoried in a 625 m2 area (for sapling layer) and a 100 m2 area (for herb/seedling layer) in three 1 ha plots. We found 3068 individuals belonging to 309 species, 192 genera and 89 families. The most important family as determined by the Family Importance Value (FIV) was Rubiaceae in both sapling and herb/seedling layers. In terms of Importance Value Index (IVI), the shrub Mycetia gracilis (Rubiaceae) was the most important species in the sapling layer and the pteridophyte Selaginella delicatula (Selaginellaceae) was the most ecological significant species in the herb/seedling layer. Much more vascular plant species were registered in the understory than in the tree layer totaled among the three plots. The species diversity did not differ significantly among the tree layer, sapling layer and herb/seedling layer. Given that we still know little about the understory plant community for growth forms other than trees, the results from the present study indicate that more attention should be paid to the understory vegetation during the decision-making process for biodiversity conservation in the tropical forests.
Taxonomy and remote sensing of leaf mass per area (LMA) in humid tropical forests.	Leaf mass per area (LMA) is a trait of central importance to plant physiology and ecosystem function, but LMA patterns in the upper canopies of humid tropical forests have proved elusive due to tall species and high diversity. We collected top-of-canopy leaf samples from 2873 individuals in 57 sites spread across the Neotropics, Australasia, and Caribbean and Pacific Islands to quantify environmental and taxonomic drivers of LMA variation, and to advance remote-sensing measures of LMA. We uncovered strong taxonomic organization of LMA, with species accounting for 70% of the global variance and up to 62% of the variation within a forest stand. Climate, growth habit, and site conditions are secondary contributors (1-23%) to the observed LMA patterns. Intraspecific variation in LMA averages 16%, which is a fraction of the variation observed between species. We then used spectroscopic remote sensing (400-2500 nm) to estimate LMA with an absolute uncertainty of 14-15 g/m2 (r2 = 0.85), or approximately 10% of the global mean. With radiative transfer modeling, we demonstrated the scalability of spectroscopic remote sensing of LMA to the canopy level. Our study indicates that remotely sensed patterns of LMA will be driven by taxonomic variation against a backdrop of environmental controls expressed at site and regional levels.
Fish colonization of artificial reefs in a large neotropical reservoir: material type and successional changes.	Artificial reefs have barely been used in Neotropical reservoirs (about five studies in three reservoirs), despite their potential as a fishery management tool to create new habitats and also to understand fish ecology. We experimentally assessed how reef material (ceramic, concrete, and PVC) and time modulated fish colonization of artificial reefs deployed in Itaipu Reservoir, a large reservoir of the mainstem Paraná River, Brazil. Fish richness, abundance, and biomass were significantly greater in the reef treatments than at control sites. Among the experimental reefs, ceramic followed by the concrete treatments were the materials most effectively colonized, harboring the majority of the 13 fish species recorded. Although dependent on material type, many of the regularities of ecological successions were also observed in the artificial reefs, including decelerating increases in species richness, abundance, mean individual size, and species loss rates with time and decelerating decreases of species gain and turnover rates. Species composition also varied with material type and time, together with suites of life history traits: more equilibrium species (i.e., fishes of intermediate size that often exhibit parental care and produce fewer but larger offspring) of the Winemiller-Rose model of fish life histories prevailed in later successional stages. Overall, our study suggests that experimental reefs are a promising tool to understand ecological succession of fish assemblages, particularly in tropical ecosystems given their high species richness and low seasonality.
Nitrogen sink in a small forested watershed of subtropical China.	Global nitrogen (N) emission and deposition have been increased rapidly due to massive mobilization of N which may have long-reaching impacts on ecosystems. Many agricultural and forest ecosystems have been identified as secondary N sources. In the present study, the input-output budget of inorganic N in a small forested watershed of subtropical China was investigated. Inorganic N wet deposition and discharge by stream water were monitored from March, 2007 to February, 2009. The concentrations and fluxes of inorganic N in wet precipitation and stream water and net retention of N were calculated. Global N input by dry deposition and biological fixation and N output by denitrification for forested watersheds elsewhere were reported as references to evaluate whether the studied forested watershed is a source or a sink for N. The results show that the inorganic N output by the stream water is mainly caused by NO3(-)-N even though the input is dominated by NH4(+)-N. The mean flux of inorganic N input by wet precipitation and output by stream water is 1.672 and 0.537 g N/(m2 x yr), respectively, which indicates that most of inorganic N input is retained in the forested watershed. Net retention of inorganic N reaches 1.135 g N/(m2 x yr) considering wet precipitation as the main input and stream water as the main output. If N input by dry deposition and biological fixation and output by denitrification are taken into account, this subtropical forested watershed currently acts as a considerable sink for N, with a net sink ranging from 1.309 to 1.913 g N/(m2 x yr) which may enhance carbon sequestration of the terrestrial ecosystem.
Slope variation and population structure of tree species from different ecological groups in South Brazil.	Size structure and spatial arrangement of 13 abundant tree species were determined in a riparian forest fragment in Paraná State, South Brazil (23°16'S and 51°01'W). The studied species were Aspidosperma polyneuron Müll. Arg., Astronium graveolens Jacq. and Gallesia integrifolia (Spreng) Harms (emergent species); Alseis floribunda Schott, Ruprechtia laxiflora Meisn. and Bougainvillea spectabilis Willd. (shade-intolerant canopy species); Machaerium paraguariense Hassl, Myroxylum peruiferum L. and Chrysophyllum gonocarpum (Mart. & Eichler ex Miq.) Engl. (shade-tolerant canopy species); Sorocea bonplandii (Baill.) Bürger, Trichilia casaretti C. Dc, Trichilia catigua A. Juss. and Actinostemon concolor (Spreng.) Müll. Arg. (understory small trees species). Height and diameter structures and basal area of species were analyzed. Spatial patterns and slope correlation were analyzed by Moran's / spatial autocorrelation coefficient and partial Mantel test, respectively. The emergent and small understory species showed the highest and the lowest variations in height, diameter and basal area. Size distribution differed among emergent species and also among canopy shade-intolerant species. The spatial pattern ranged among species in all groups, except in understory small tree species. The slope was correlated with spatial pattern for A. polyneuron, A. graveolens, A. floribunda, R. laxiflora, M. peruiferum and T. casaretti. The results indicated that most species occurred in specific places, suggesting that niche differentiation can be an important factor in structuring the tree community.
Rhizosphere effect on survival of Escherichia coli O157:H7 and Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium in manure-amended soil during cabbage (Brassica oleracea) cultivation under tropical field conditions in Sub-Saharan Africa.	The effect of cabbage (Brassica oleracea) rhizosphere on survival of Escherichia coli O157:H7 and Salmonella Typhimurium in manure-amended soils under tropical field conditions was investigated in the Central Agro-Ecological Zone of Uganda. Three-week old cabbage seedlings were transplanted and cultivated for 120 days on manure-amended soil inoculated with 4 or 7 log CFU/g non-virulent E. coli O157:H7 and S. Typhimurium. Cabbage rhizosphere did not affect survival of the 4log CFU/g inocula in manure-amended soil and the two enteric bacteria were not detected on/in cabbage leaves at harvest. The 7 log CFU/g E. coli O157:H7 and S. Typhimurium survived in bulk soil for a maximum of 80 and 96 days, respectively, but the organisms remained culturable in cabbage rhizosphere up to the time of harvest. At 7 log CFU/g inoculum, E. coli O157:H7 and S. Typhimurium contamination on cabbage leaves occurred throughout the cultivation period. Leaf surface sterilisation with 1% AgNO(3) indicated that the organisms were present superficially and in protected locations on the leaves. These results demonstrate that under tropical field conditions, cabbage rhizosphere enhances the persistence of E. coli O157:H7 and S. Typhimurium in manure-amended soil at high inoculum density and is associated with long-term contamination of the leaves.
Soils on exposed Sunda shelf shaped biogeographic patterns in the equatorial forests of Southeast Asia.	The marked biogeographic difference between western (Malay Peninsula and Sumatra) and eastern (Borneo) Sundaland is surprising given the long time that these areas have formed a single landmass. A dispersal barrier in the form of a dry savanna corridor during glacial maxima has been proposed to explain this disparity. However, the short duration of these dry savanna conditions make it an unlikely sole cause for the biogeographic pattern. An additional explanation might be related to the coarse sandy soils of central Sundaland. To test these two nonexclusive hypotheses, we performed a floristic cluster analysis based on 111 tree inventories from Peninsular Malaysia, Sumatra, and Borneo. We then identified the indicator genera for clusters that crossed the central Sundaland biogeographic boundary and those that did not cross and tested whether drought and coarse-soil tolerance of the indicator genera differed between them. We found 11 terminal floristic clusters, 10 occurring in Borneo, 5 in Sumatra, and 3 in Peninsular Malaysia. Indicator taxa of clusters that occurred across Sundaland had significantly higher coarse-soil tolerance than did those from clusters that occurred east or west of central Sundaland. For drought tolerance, no such pattern was detected. These results strongly suggest that exposed sandy sea-bed soils acted as a dispersal barrier in central Sundaland. However, we could not confirm the presence of a savanna corridor. This finding makes it clear that proposed biogeographic explanations for plant and animal distributions within Sundaland, including possible migration routes for early humans, need to be reevaluated.
Physiological differences and implications to reproductive management of Bos taurus and Bos indicus cattle in a tropical environment.	In the current review the main fundamental biological differences in reproductive function between Bos taurus and Bos indicus cattle are discussed. Breed differences regarding puberty, estrous cycle patterns, estrous behavior, acquisition of ovulatory capacity, ovarian structures and reproductive hormones are presented. The main physiological differences that Bos indicus cattle present relative to Bos taurus cattle include: delayed age at puberty; higher circulating concentrations of hormones such as estradiol, progesterone, insulin and IGF-I, despite having smaller ovulatory follicle size and corpora lutea; greater population of small follicles and smaller size of the dominant follicle at deviation; and greater sensitivity of follicles to gonadotropins. Knowledge of the differences between Bos indicus and Bos taurus breeds help explain different management procedures and responses to hormonal treatments associated with artificial insemination, ovarian superstimulation, and in vivo and in vitro embryo production.
Effects of land use pattern on soil microbial biomass carbon in Xishuangbanna]	In January 2006 - September 2007, a controlled litter-removal and root-cutting experiment was conducted to study the effects of different land use patterns (secondary forest or rubber plantation) on soil microbial biomass carbon in Xishuangbanna, China. After the secondary forest converted into rubber plantation, soil nutrient contents and plant carbon input decreased obviously, and soil microbial biomass carbon had a significant decrease. These two forest types had a higher soil microbial biomass carbon in rainy season than in dry season. In secondary forest, soil microbial biomass carbon was significantly positively correlated with soil temperature; while in rubber plantation, the microbial biomass carbon was positively correlated with soil moisture. In secondary forest, soil microbial biomass carbon was controlled by the nutrient inputs from plant roots, but less affected by litter amount. Also in secondary forest, soil microbial biomass carbon was significantly positively correlated with fine-root biomass and its C and N inputs. In rubber plantation, both the fine-root biomass and its C and N inputs and the litter amount had lesser effects on soil microbial biomass carbon. These results suggested that planting rubber induced the decreases of soil nutrient contents and pH value, and, added with serious artificial disturbances, reduced the soil microbial biomass carbon and changed its controlling factors, which in turn would affect other soil ecological processes.
The use of phylogeny to interpret cross-cultural patterns in plant use and guide medicinal plant discovery: an example from Pterocarpus (Leguminosae).	The study of traditional knowledge of medicinal plants has led to discoveries that have helped combat diseases and improve healthcare. However, the development of quantitative measures that can assist our quest for new medicinal plants has not greatly advanced in recent years. Phylogenetic tools have entered many scientific fields in the last two decades to provide explanatory power, but have been overlooked in ethnomedicinal studies. Several studies show that medicinal properties are not randomly distributed in plant phylogenies, suggesting that phylogeny shapes ethnobotanical use. Nevertheless, empirical studies that explicitly combine ethnobotanical and phylogenetic information are scarce.
Effects of temperature on the respiration of brooded larvae from tropical reef corals.	This study describes the effects of temperature on the respiration of brooded larvae of scleractinian corals, and evaluates the implications of these effects relative to seawater temperature when peak larval release occurs. Respiration rates of larvae from Pocillopora damicornis, Seriatopora hystrix and Stylophora pistillata were quantified in darkness as oxygen uptake during 1-3 h exposures to five temperatures between 26.4 and 29.6°C. To assess the biological significance of these experiments, the temperature of the seawater into which larvae of P. damicornis and S. hystrix were released was measured for 32-34 months over 5 years between 2003 and 2008. Mean respiration varied from 0.029 to 0.116 nmol O(2) larva(-1) min(-1), and was related parabolically to temperature with a positive threshold at 28.0°C. The temperature coefficients (Q(10)) for the ascending portion of these relationships (Q(10)=15-76) indicate that the temperature dependency is stronger than can be explained by kinetics alone, and probably reflects behavioral and developmental effects. Larval release occurred year-round in synchrony with the lunar periodicity when seawater temperature ranged from 21.8 to 30.7°C, and more than half of the sampled larvae were released at 27.5-28.9°C. The coincidence on the temperature scale of peak larval release with the thermal threshold for respiration suggests that high metabolic rates have selective value for pelagic coral larvae. The large and rapid effects of temperature on larval respiration have implications for studies of the effects of climate change on coral reproduction, particularly when seawater temperature exceeds ∼28°C, when our results predict that larval respiration will be greatly reduced.
Pre-reproductive survival in a tropical bird and its implications for avian life histories.	The factors that affect survival until reproduction are essential to understanding the organization of life histories within and among species. Theory predicts, for example, that survival until reproduction influences the optimum level of reproductive investment by parents, which might partly explain prolonged parental care in species with high first-year survival. Tests and refinements of life-history theory have been hampered, however, by a lack of field-based estimates of pre-reproductive survival, especially for tropical species, which have been the subject of many comparative analyses. Tropical species are predicted to have higher first-year survival and delayed reproduction compared to Northern Hemisphere species. We estimated survival until reproduction, age at first reproduction, and sources of variation in juvenile survival in a Neotropical passerine, the Western Slaty-Antshrike (Thamnophilus atrinucha), in central Panama. We observed that fledged antshrikes had 76% survival through the dependent period and 48% survival to the age of 1 year; survival rate was lowest during the first week after leaving the nest. Timing of fledging within the breeding season, fledgling mass, and age at dispersal influenced survival, while sex of offspring and year did not. Individuals did not breed until two years of age, and post-fledging pre-reproductive survival was 41% of annual adult survival. High survival until reproduction in antshrikes balanced their low annual productivity, resulting in a stable population. Survival during the post-fledging period of dependence and the first year of independence in the Western Slaty-Antshrike exceeded estimates for Northern Hemisphere species. This difference appears to be associated with the extended post-fledging parental care, delayed dispersal, low costs of dispersal, and the less seasonal environment of antshrikes.
Chronic herbicide exposures affect the sensitivity and community structure of tropical benthic microalgae.	The effects of prolonged exposure to low concentrations of herbicides on tropical periphyton (biofilm) communities are largely unknown. Tropical estuarine biofilms established in microcosms were therefore exposed to diuron (photosystem-II-inhibitor) at 2-16μg L(-1) for 4 weeks. The biofilms, consisting of diatoms, filamentous brown algae and cyanobacteria, developed a tolerance to diuron during this period as measured by Phyto-PAM fluorometry. Microscopy and pigment analysis revealed that this decrease in sensitivity was accompanied by a shift in species composition towards communities dominated by diatoms. The combination of techniques enabled the first identification of pollution-induced community tolerance (PICT) in tropical estuarine periphyton in response to chronic herbicide exposures. Community composition changed compared to controls at environmentally relevant concentrations of 1.6μg L(-1), while development of PICT was evident at 6.5μg L(-1) diuron, with no recovery (over 2 weeks) in uncontaminated water, indicating chronic pollution induced shifts in community structure.
Economic analysis of alternative nutritional management of dual-purpose cow herds in central coastal Veracruz, Mexico.	Market information was combined with predicted input-output relationships in an economic analysis of alternative nutritional management for dual-purpose member herds of the Genesis farmer organization of central coastal Veracruz, Mexico. Cow productivity outcomes for typical management and alternative feeding scenarios were obtained from structured sets of simulations in a companion study of productivity limitations and potentials using the Cornell Net Carbohydrate and Protein System model (Version 6.0). Partial budgeting methods and sensitivity analysis were used to identify economically viable alternatives based on expected change in milk income over feed cost (change in revenues from milk sales less change in feed costs). Herd owners in coastal Veracruz have large economic incentives, from $584 to $1,131 in predicted net margin, to increase milk sales by up to 74% across a three-lactation cow lifetime by improving diets based on good quality grass and legume forages. This increment is equal to, or exceeds, in value the total yield from at least one additional lactation per cow lifetime. Furthermore, marginal rates of return (change in milk income over feed costs divided by change in variable costs when alternative practices are used) of 3.3 ± 0.8 indicate clear economic incentives to remove fundamental productivity vulnerabilities due to chronic energy deficits and impeded growth of immature cows under typical management. Sensitivity analyses indicate that the economic outcomes are robust for a variety of market conditions.
Limitations and potentials of dual-purpose cow herds in Central Coastal Veracruz, Mexico.	Feed chemical and kinetic composition and animal performance information was used to evaluate productivity limitations and potentials of dual-purpose member herds of the Genesis farmer organization of central coastal Veracruz, Mexico. The Cornell Net Carbohydrate and Protein System model (Version 6.0) was systematically applied to specific groups of cows in structured simulations to establish probable input-output relationships for typical management, and to estimate probable outcomes from alternative management based on forage-based dietary improvements. Key herd vulnerabilities were pinpointed: chronic energy deficits among dry cows of all ages in late gestation and impeded growth for immature cows. Regardless of the forage season of calving, most cows, if not all, incur energy deficits in the final trimester of gestation; thus reducing the pool of tissue energy and constraining milking performance. Under typical management, cows are smaller and underweight for their age, which limits feed intake capacity, milk production and the probability of early postpartum return to ovarian cyclicity. The substitution of good-quality harvested forage for grazing increased predicted yields by about one-third over typical scenarios for underweight cows. When diets from first parturition properly supported growth and tissue repletion, milk production in second and third lactations was predicted to improve about 60%. Judiciously supplemented diets based on good quality grass and legume forages from first calving were predicted to further increase productivity by about 80% across a three-lactation cow lifetime. These dual-purpose herd owners have large incentives to increase sales income by implementing nutritional strategies like those considered in this study.
Using automated point dendrometers to analyze tropical treeline stem growth at Nevado de Colima, Mexico.	The relationship between wood growth and environmental variability at the tropical treeline of North America was investigated using automated, solar-powered sensors (a meteorological station and two dendrometer clusters) installed on Nevado de Colima, Mexico (19° 35' N, 103° 37' W, 3,760 m a.s.l.). Pure stands of Pinus hartwegii Lindl. (Mexican mountain pine) were targeted because of their suitability for tree-ring analysis in low-latitude, high-elevation, North American Monsoon environments. Stem size and hydroclimatic variables recorded at half-hour intervals were summarized on a daily timescale. Power outages, insect outbreaks, and sensor failures limited the analysis to non-consecutive months during 2001-2003 at one dendrometer site, and during 2002-2005 at the other. Combined data from the two sites showed that maximum radial growth rates occur in late spring (May), as soil temperature increases, and incoming short-wave radiation reaches its highest values. Early season (April-May) radial increment correlated directly with temperature, especially of the soil, and with solar radiation. Stem expansion at the start of the summer monsoon (June-July) was mostly influenced by moisture, and revealed a drought signal, while late season relationships were more varied.
Effect of dietary supplementation of organic chromium on performance, carcass traits, oxidative parameters, and immune responses in commercial broiler chickens.	An experiment was conducted to study effect of supplementing graded concentrations (0, 100, 200, 300, or 400 μg/kg diet) of organic chromium (Cr) on performance, carcass traits, oxidative stress, and immune responses in commercial broiler chickens reared in open-sided poultry house under tropical climatic conditions. Each diet was fed ad libitum to eight replicates consisting of six birds in each pen from 1 to 42 days of age. Body mass gain and feed efficiency at 21 and 42 days of age and relative mass of liver, abdominal fat, and ready to cook yields at 42 days of age were not affected (P > 0.05) by supplementing organic Cr in broiler diet. Body mass loss during pre-slaughter holding period (12 h) reduced and relative breast mass increased nonlinearly (P < 0.01) with concentration of Cr in diet. Lipid peroxidation decreased, while activities of glutathione peroxidase and glutathione reductase in plasma increased nonlinearly with Cr supplementation. The ratio between heterophyl and lymphocyte was not affected (P > 0.05) with Cr supplementation in broiler diet. Relative mass of lymphoid organs (bursa, spleen, and thymus) and antibody production to Newcastle disease vaccination were not affected (P > 0.05) by the treatments employed. The cell-mediated immunity (lymphocyte proliferation ratio) increased nonlinearly with dietary Cr concentration. The results of the present study indicated that supplementation of organic Cr did not influence body mass and feed efficiency. However, supplementation of the Cr reduced pre-slaughter holding losses, increased the relative mass of breast, and increased antioxidant status and lymphocyte proliferation in broilers reared in tropics.
Evaluation of tropically adapted straightbred and crossbred cattle: postweaning gain and feed efficiency when finished in a temperate climate.	Beef cows in the subtropical USA must be adapted to the stressors of the environment, typically supplied by using Brahman (Br) breeding. Calves produced in the region, however, are usually grown and finished in more temperate regions, and have a perceived reputation for poor ADG and feed efficiency during finishing. Compromised fertility and carcass quality often associated with the Br have increased interest in tropically adapted Bos taurus breed types. The objective of this study was to evaluate 3 breeds [An = Angus (Bos taurus, temperate); Br (B. indicus, tropical); and Ro = Romosinuano (B. taurus, tropical)] and all possible crosses during various segments of post-weaning growth, and for feed efficiency during the finishing phase. Steer calves (n = 473) born over 3 yr were weaned in late September, backgrounded for at least 21 d (BKG), shipped 2,025 km to El Reno, OK, in October, fed a preconditioning diet for 28 d (RCV), grazed wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) pasture from November to May (WHT), finished on a conventional feedlot diet (FIN), and serially harvested after approximately 95, 125, and 150 d on feed. Body weight and ADG during each segment were tested using a mixed model that included calf age at weaning, year (Y), breed of sire (SB), breed of dam (DB), and interactions. In addition, winter treatment (continuous wheat or reduced grazing of wheat with supplement) was included for the wheat and feedlot phases. Sire within SB × SB [and pen (barn × year) for feedlot phase] were considered random. The SB × DB interaction was significant for all traits (P < 0.01) except exit velocity taken at weaning and ADG during FIN, but both traits were affected by 3-way interactions with Y or harvest group. Tropically-adapted purebred steers had greater (P < 0.01) ADG than AnAn through weaning and BKG in FL but the reverse was true during the RCV and WHT segments. Similar, but less pronounced results were noted for F(1) steers with 100% tropical influence compared with those with only 50%. Heterosis was numerically greater for most traits for An × Br (11 to 64%) compared with An × Ro and Br × Ro (3 to 42%), which were similar. In a subset of the steers (n = 261), G:F was not influenced by level of tropical breeding, but tropically adapted steers were more efficient (P < 0.05) by residual feed intake. No heterosis was evident. These data show that in temperate zones, winter is the period when productivity of tropically adapted cattle is compromised.
New species and new records of Crinipellis from tropical and subtropical forests of the east coast of Mexico.	Crinipellis brunneoaurantiaca, C. pallidibrunnea and C. rubella are described as new species and their taxonomic position is discussed. The two former were collected in subdeciduous tropical forest and the latter in the montane cloud forest, all from the east coast of Mexico (central Veracruz). Crinipellis podocarpi, C. pseudostipitaria var. mesites, C. setipes, recorded in montane cloud forest, and C. tucumanensis, collected in subdeciduous tropical forest, also are discussed. Detailed macro- and microscopic descriptions, illustrations of distinctive microscopic characters and plates are presented for each species.
Estimating Brownian motion dispersal rate, longevity and population density from spatially explicit mark-recapture data on tropical butterflies.	1. We develop a Bayesian method for analysing mark-recapture data in continuous habitat using a model in which individuals movement paths are Brownian motions, life spans are exponentially distributed and capture events occur at given instants in time if individuals are within a certain attractive distance of the traps. 2. The joint posterior distribution of the dispersal rate, longevity, trap attraction distances and a number of latent variables representing the unobserved movement paths and time of death of all individuals is computed using Gibbs sampling. 3. An estimate of absolute local population density is obtained simply by dividing the Poisson counts of individuals captured at given points in time by the estimated total attraction area of all traps. Our approach for estimating population density in continuous habitat avoids the need to define an arbitrary effective trapping area that characterized previous mark-recapture methods in continuous habitat. 4. We applied our method to estimate spatial demography parameters in nine species of neotropical butterflies. Path analysis of interspecific variation in demographic parameters and mean wing length revealed a simple network of strong causation. Larger wing length increases dispersal rate, which in turn increases trap attraction distance. However, higher dispersal rate also decreases longevity, thus explaining the surprising observation of a negative correlation between wing length and longevity.
Raoiella indica (Acari: Tenuipalpidae): an exploding mite pest in the neotropics.	Major infestations of the flat mite species Raoiella indica Hirst affecting bananas, palms and other ornamental plants have been reported from the Caribbean islands, Mexico, FL (USA), Venezuela, Colombia and Brazil. Specimens from these localities were examined using traditional light microscopy and low-temperature scanning electron microscopy techniques. While little is known about the biology of this mite, its recent appearance in the Americas in both commercial coconut and banana plantations has raised concerns about its economic impact as an invasive pest.
Palms, peccaries and perturbations: widespread effects of small-scale disturbance in tropical forests.	Disturbance is an important process structuring ecosystems worldwide and has long been thought to be a significant driver of diversity and dynamics. In forests, most studies of disturbance have focused on large-scale disturbance such as hurricanes or tree-falls. However, smaller sub-canopy disturbances could also have significant impacts on community structure. One such sub-canopy disturbance in tropical forests is abscising leaves of large arborescent palm (Arececeae) trees. These leaves can weigh up to 15 kg and cause physical damage and mortality to juvenile plants. Previous studies examining this question suffered from the use of static data at small spatial scales. Here we use data from a large permanent forest plot combined with dynamic data on the survival and growth of > 66,000 individuals over a seven-year period to address whether falling palm fronds do impact neighboring seedling and sapling communities, or whether there is an interaction between the palms and peccaries rooting for fallen palm fruit in the same area as falling leaves. We tested the wider generalisation of these hypotheses by comparing seedling and sapling survival under fruiting and non-fruiting trees in another family, the Myristicaceae.
Leaf protein concentrate as food supplement from arid zone plants.	In arid and semi-arid areas where prevalence of droughts and famines is a recurring feature, forest cover can in general make valuable contributions to food security and provide income to the rural poor. Protein and calorie malnutrition is widespread in these areas leading to high child mortality rate. Plant species can play an important role in overcoming this by being used as a source of leaf protein concentrate (LPC), a highly nutritious food. LPC should be considered seriously as it can serve as an additional protein source in the case of non-ruminants and man, especially in drought prone areas. The use of LPC in developing countries as an alternative protein source to fishmeal in broiler diet holds tremendous promise as it can substantially lower high cost of fishmeal and eventually the acute shortage of animal protein supply. Potential tropical plants for LPC production have been evaluated and selected for further research by United States Department of Agriculture. The present study was aimed to determine the potential of arid zone plants for preparation of LPC. Extraction characteristics of the several plant species have been studied and the quality of LPC prepared from them was investigated. Different fractions, chloroplastic and cytoplasmic proteins, were analyzed for their crude protein contents. Analysis of LPC shows considerable differences in their protein contents, which was found to range from 13.7 to 88.9%. Based on this, Achyranthes aspera and Tephrosia purpurea were found to be the best suited plants for LPC preparation.
Effect of Robusta (Coffea canephora P.) coffee cherries quantity put out for sun drying on contamination by fungi and ochratoxin A (OTA) under tropical humid zone (Côte d'Ivoire).	The effect of coffee cherries quantity put out for sun drying on the kinetics of the drying, chemical components variation, fungal growth and ochratoxin A production was evaluated. The results showed that the more coffee cherries quantity on the drying area was important, the slower they dried. Indeed, the drying durations were 12, 17, 21, 26, 31 and 32 days respectively for the lots of 10 kg, 20 kg, 30 kg, 40 kg, 50 kg and 60 kg of cherries by square meter of drying area. The slowness of the drying led to the increasing of fungal development and ochratoxin A production in the cherries. Indeed, samples more contaminated were those from the lots of 50 kg and 60 kg of cherries by square meter of drying area with between 10% and 100% of infected beans and with levels of ochratoxin A ranging from 0.92 to 118.47 and 1.4 to 131.33 μg kg(-1) respectively. The slowness of the drying led also to the acidification of the cherries (pH=5.55-4.54) and the degradation of their chlorogenic acids content (13.03-11.69) while for their caffeine content (2.52-2.54), any significant difference was observed whatever the drying duration.
The integrity of sperm chromatin in young tropical composite bulls.	Sperm chromatin fragmentation is associated with subfertility, but its relationship with age progression in young bulls is poorly understood. The objective was to assess sperm chromatin fragmentation during the early post-pubertal development of 20 tropical composite bulls, using a sperm chromatin structure assay (SCSA) and sperm-bos-halomax (SBH). Bulls were subjected to bull breeding soundness evaluation (BBSE) at mean ages of 13, 18, and 24 mo. Traits measured included liveweight (WT), body condition score (BCS) and scrotal circumference (SC). Semen samples were collected by electroejaculation and assessed for mass activity (MA), motility (Mot), concentration (conc), sperm morphology and chromatin fragmentation. Concentration (r=0.34, P=0.0076), Mot (r=0.36, P=0.0041) and percentage of morphologic normal sperm (percent normal sperm (PNS); r=0.31, P=0.0132) were positively correlated with age. The percentage of sperm with proximal droplets (PD) was negatively correlated with age (r=-0.28, P=0.0348), whereas neither SCSA nor SBH results were significantly correlated with age. The percentage of sperm with chromatin fragmentation using SCSA was correlated with PNS (r=-0.53, P<0.0001), the percentage of sperm with head abnormalities (r=0.68, P<0.0001) and the percentage of intact sperm (Int) with SBH (r=-0.26, P=0.0456). In summary, for assessment of sperm chromatin fragmentation, samples could be equally collected at 13, 18 or 24 mo of age, as results did not vary with age.
Community-driven interventions can revolutionise control of neglected tropical diseases.	Whether global health interventions target diseases (vertical), systems (horizontal) or both (diagonal), they must address the challenge of delivering services in very remote areas of poor countries with inadequate infrastructure. The primacy of this challenge has been underscored by persistent service-delivery difficulties despite several large financial commitments - the latest, US $363 million in the January 2012 London Declaration. Community-driven approaches, pioneered in river blindness control, show that engaging communities can maximise access and performance. This experience should inform a paradigm shift in disease control whereby communities are empowered to extend health service access themselves.
Dengue fever-like illnesses: how different are they from each other?	In tropical countries and possibly elsewhere, dengue fever can be confused with other common tropical infections like enteric fever, leptospirosis, typhus fever, malaria, etc. Many of these illnesses can present in significant numbers after rains, and because of similar early presentations, can cause confusion in decision-making. With global warming, these diseases can assume significant proportions even in non-endemic areas. Identifying these illnesses in a non-immune returning traveller is equally challenging. Recognition of these diseases is important to diagnose them and treat them early, in order to avoid potentially fatal complications. This review is an attempt to highlight important clinical and laboratory differences among dengue fever-like illnesses.
Global patterns of the dynamics of soil carbon and nitrogen stocks following afforestation: a meta-analysis.	• Afforestation has been proposed as an effective method of carbon (C) sequestration; however, the magnitude and direction of soil carbon accumulation following afforestation and its regulation by soil nitrogen (N) dynamics are still not well understood. • We synthesized the results from 292 sites and carried out a meta-analysis to evaluate the dynamics of soil C and N stocks following afforestation. • Changes in soil C and N stocks were significantly correlated and had a similar temporal pattern. Significant C and N stock increases were found 30 and 50 yr after afforestation, respectively. Before these time points, C and N stocks were either depleted or unchanged. Carbon stock increased following afforestation on cropland and pasture, and in tropical, subtropical and boreal zones. The soil N stock increased in the subtropical zone. The soil C stock increased after afforestation with hardwoods such as Eucalyptus, but did not change after afforestation with softwoods such as pine. Soil N stocks increased and decreased, respectively, after afforestation with hardwoods (excluding Eucalyptus) and pine. • These results indicate that soil C and N stocks both increase with time after afforestation, and that C sequestration through afforestation depends on prior land use, climate and the tree species planted.
The interaction rainfall vs. weight as determinant of total mercury concentration in fish from a tropical estuary.	Mercury loads in tropical estuaries are largely controlled by the rainfall regime that may cause biodilution due to increased amounts of organic matter (both live and non-living) in the system. Top predators, as Trichiurus lepturus, reflect the changing mercury bioavailability situations in their muscle tissues. In this work two variables [fish weight (g) and monthly total rainfall (mm)] are presented as being important predictors of total mercury concentration (T-Hg) in fish muscle. These important explanatory variables were identified by a Weibull Regression model, which best fit the dataset. A predictive model using readily available variables as rainfall is important, and can be applied for human and ecological health assessments and decisions. The main contribution will be to further protect vulnerable groups as pregnant women and children. Nature conservation directives could also improve by considering monitoring sample designs that include this hypothesis, helping to establish complete and detailed mercury contamination scenarios.
Lipid class and fatty acid content of the leptocephalus larva of tropical eels.	The leptocephalus larva of eels distinguishes the elopomorph fishes from all other bony fishes. The leptocephalus is long lived and increases in size primarily through the synthesis and deposition of glycosaminoglycans. Energy stored during the larval stage, in the form of glycosaminoglycan and lipids, is required to fuel migration, metamorphosis and metabolism of the subsequent glass eel stage. Despite the importance of energy storage by leptocephali for survival and recruitment, their diet, condition and lipid content and composition is essentially unknown. To gain further insight into energy storage and condition of leptocephali, we determined the lipid class and fatty acid concentration of larvae collected on a cross-shelf transect off Broome, northwestern Australia. The total lipid concentration of two families and four sub-families of leptocephali ranged from 2.7 to 7.0 mg g wet weight(-1), at the low end of the few published values. Phospholipid and triacylglycerol made up ca. 63 % of the total lipid pool. The triacylglycerol:sterol ratio, an index of nutritional condition, ranged from 0.9 to 3.7, indicating that the leptocephali were in good condition. The predominant fatty acids were 16:0 (23 mol%), 22:6n-3 (docosahexaenoic acid, DHA, 16 mol%), 18:0 (8.2 mol%), 20:5n-3 (eicosapentaenoic acid, EPA, 6.7 mol%), 18:1n-9 (6.4 mol%) and 16:1n-7 (6.3 mol%). The DHA:EPA ratio ranged from 2.4 to 2.9, sufficient for normal growth and development of fish larvae generally. The leptocephali had proportions of bacterial markers >4.4 %, consistent with the possibility that they consume appendicularian houses or other marine snow that is bacteria rich.
The role of nutrition in integrated programs to control neglected tropical diseases.	There are strong and direct relationships between undernutrition and the disease caused by infectious organisms, including the diverse pathogens labeled as neglected tropical diseases (NTDs). Undernutrition increases the risk of infection, the severity of disease and the risk that children will die, while the physical damage, loss of appetite, and host responses during chronic infection can contribute substantially to undernutrition. These relationships are often synergistic. This opinion article examines the role of nutrition in controlling NTDs and makes the point that mass drug treatment--the major strategy currently proposed to control several diseases--is crucial to controlling disease and transmission, but is only the start of the process of physical recovery. Without adequate energy and nutrients to repair damaged tissues or recover lost growth and development, the benefits of treatment may not be evident quickly; the effects of control programs may be not appreciated by beneficiaries; while vulnerability to reinfection and disease may not be reduced. There is substantial potential for nutritional interventions to be added to large-scale programs to deliver drug treatments and thereby contribute, within a broad strategy of public health interventions and behavior change activities, to controlling and preventing NTDs in populations, and to restoring their health.
Plankton diversity and limnological characterization in two shallow tropical urban reservoirs of Pernambuco State, Brazil.	Plankton diversity, physical and chemical variables and chlorophyll a were analyzed in two shallow urban reservoirs with different trophic degrees on Pernambuco State, northeastern Brazil. High eutrophication levels were observed in Apipucos reservoir, while Prata reservoir was considered oligotrophic. Values reported for physical and chemical variables and chlorophyll a differed among the studied ecosystems. Richness and plankton diversity were higher in Apipucos reservoir especially for phytoplankton. The presence of potential toxic Cyanophyceae in both reservoirs reflects a problem mainly to Prata reservoir, which is used for public water supply. Differences were observed for some variables among sites of study in Apipucos reservoir, while the differences among strata were negligible in both reservoirs, reflecting the water column mixing by wind action. Rainfall regulated the temporal dynamics for the analyzed variables, with significant seasonal differences, mainly for the major of limnological variables in Apipucos reservoir. Plankton diversity was higher in Apipucos reservoir, especially to phytoplankton, showing that eutrophication and pollution can favor plankton diversity in tropical urban shallow reservoirs.
Menispermaceae and the diversification of tropical rainforests near the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary.	• Modern tropical rainforests have the highest biodiversity of terrestrial biomes and are restricted to three low-latitude areas. However, the actual timeframe during which tropical rainforests began to appear on a global scale has been intensely disputed. Here, we used the moonseed family (Menispermaceae), an important physiognomic and structural component of tropical rainforests on a worldwide basis, to obtain new insights into the diversification of this biome. • We integrated phylogenetic, biogeographic and molecular dating methods to analyse temporal and spatial patterns of global diversification in Menispermaceae. • Importantly, a burst of moonseed diversification occurred in a narrow window of time, which coincides with the Cretaceous-Paleogene (K-Pg) boundary. Our data also suggest multiple independent migrations from a putative ancestral area of Indo-Malay into other tropical regions. • Our data for Menispermaceae suggest that modern tropical rainforests may have appeared almost synchronously throughout the three major tropical land areas close to, or immediately following, the K-Pg mass extinction.
Utilization of lightflecks by seedlings of five dominant tree species of different subtropical forest successional stages under low-light growth conditions.	We selected five typical tree species, including one early-successional species (ES) Pinus massoniana Lamb., two mid-successional species (MS) Schima superba Gardn. et Champ. and Castanopsis fissa (Champ. ex Benth.) Rehd. et Wils. and two late-successional species (LS) Cryptocarya concinna Hance. and Acmena acuminatissima (BI.) Merr et Perry., which represent the plants at three successional periods in Dinghushan subtropical forest succession of southern China. Potted seedlings of the five species were grown under 12% of full sunlight for 36 months. The ES and MS showed the slowest and fastest responses to lightflecks, respectively, which correlated with the rate of stomatal opening. In contrast to P. massoniana and C. concinna, the other three species exhibited a high induction loss. Early-successional species showed the lowest specific leaf area and chlorophyll content, the highest photosynthetic capacity (A(max)) and respiratory carbon losses (R(d)). Compared with ES and MS, LS showed lower A(max) and R(d). The five tree species showed a similar chlorophyll a/b ratio after long-term low-light adaptations. On the other hand, LS had a relatively higher de-epoxidation state to protect themselves from excess light during lightflecks. Our results indicated that (i) slower responses to lightflecks could partially explain why ES species could not achieve seedling regeneration in low-light conditions; (ii) fast responses to lightflecks could partially explain why MS species could achieve seedling regeneration in low-light conditions; and (iii) smaller respiratory carbon losses might confer on the LS species a competitive advantage in low-light conditions.
Reconstruction of Pyrodinium blooms in the tropical East Pacific (Mexico): are they related to ENSO?	Some microplanktonic species, mostly dinoflagellates, causing Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs), produce toxins which may affect the environment and human health, thus causing important economic losses. The dinoflagellate Pyrodinium bahamense var. compressum is one of the main species causing harmful algal blooms along the tropical Pacific. Although it was first reported along the Mexican coast in the 1970s, here we report that a sedimentary record of Pyrodinium cysts from the Gulf of Tehuantepec in the tropical East Pacific (Mexico), which spans from the 1860s, showed the continuous occurrence of Pyrodinium cysts and that their presence has been declining in the last few decades. Although Pyrodinium HABs have been attributed to El Niño events in the tropical Indo-West Pacific, the record shows that most blooms in the tropical East Pacific appear in periods of low sea surface temperature and higher rainfall, as can be observed during rapid shifts from cold (La Niña) to warm (El Niño) conditions in that region. This mechanism offers new ways to better predict and facilitate early detection of Pyrodinium HABs worldwide.
Stem hydraulic traits and leaf water-stress tolerance are co-ordinated with the leaf phenology of angiosperm trees in an Asian tropical dry karst forest.	The co-occurring of evergreen and deciduous angiosperm trees in Asian tropical dry forests on karst substrates suggests the existence of different water-use strategies among species. In this study it is hypothesized that the co-occurring evergreen and deciduous trees differ in stem hydraulic traits and leaf water relationships, and there will be correlated evolution in drought tolerance between leaves and stems.
Community based mangrove management: a review on status and sustainability.	Community Based Mangrove Management (CBMM) has been advocated by both academia and governing agencies as a viable alternative for sustainably managing the ecologically important mangrove forests which are disappearing rapidly worldwide. Drawing insights from diverse sustainability issues, capabilities and performances of worldwide CBMM initiatives were examined in this paper. Higher numbers of CBMM initiatives were reported from South Asia and lesser from South America and Africa. Identification of the causes of degradation at a site and use-specific zonal replantations with respect to species associations were identified as major criteria of ecological sustainability. Regarding economic sustainability, transformation of potential uses of mangroves known by local communities into actual ones was found to be necessary. Proper disbursement of accrued benefits among community members irrespective of their socio-cultural status is also a major concern. Restructuring of CBMM institutions by ensuring participation of subsistence based users in decision-making and resource sharing have been identified as a prime determinant of institutional sustainability. However, limited number of studies on socio-political and institutional aspects as well as impacts of globalization induced socio-cultural transformations of communities on CBMM had been actually found. More focused researches on these aspects had been recommended for better community management of these highly stressed forests.
Prevention of malaria in travelers.	There are approximately 300 million cases of malaria each year, resulting in 1 million deaths worldwide. Family physicians often encounter patients preparing to travel to malaria-endemic regions. Physicians should have basic knowledge of parasite transmission and malaria prevention. The risk of malaria acquisition is based largely on geographic location and travel season. Most cases occur in sub-Saharan Africa, the Indian subcontinent, and Southeast Asia between the months of May and December. Key elements in prevention include barrier protection and chemoprophylaxis. Travelers to malaria-endemic areas should be advised to use mosquito repellent at all times and bed netting at night. Prophylactic medication should be initiated before travel and continued after return. Travelers should be warned that malaria symptoms can present up to one year after a mosquito bite. Symptoms are vague, and may include fever, chills, arthralgias, and headaches. Travelers experiencing symptoms should seek prompt medical attention.
Wild pigs (Sus scrofa) mediate large-scale edge effects in a lowland tropical rainforest in Peninsular Malaysia.	Edge-effects greatly extend the area of tropical forests degraded through human activities. At Pasoh, Peninsular Malaysia, it has been suggested that soil disturbance by highly abundant wild pigs (Sus scrofa), which feed in adjacent Oil Palm plantations, may have mediated the invasion of Clidemia hirta (Melastomataceae) into the diverse tropical lowland rain forest. To investigate this hypothesis, we established three 1 km transects from the forest/Oil Palm plantation boundary into the forest interior. We recorded the distribution of soil disturbance by wild pigs, C. hirta abundance, and environmental variables. These data were analyzed using a hierarchical Bayesian model that incorporated spatial auto-correlation in the environmental variables. As predicted, soil disturbance by wild pigs declined with distance from forest edge and C. hirta abundance was correlated with the level of soil disturbance. Importantly there was no effect of distance on C. hirta abundance, after controlling for the effect of soil disturbance. Clidemia hirta abundance was also correlated with the presence of canopy openings, but there was no significant association between the occurrence of canopy openings and distance from the edge. Increased levels of soil disturbance and C. hirta abundance were still detectable approximately 1 km from the edge, demonstrating the potential for exceptionally large-scale animal mediated edge effects.
Amazon rainforest exchange of carbon and subcanopy air flow: Manaus LBA site--a complex terrain condition.	On the moderately complex terrain covered by dense tropical Amazon Rainforest (Reserva Biologica do Cuieiras--ZF2--02°36'17.1'' S, 60°12'24.4'' W), subcanopy horizontal and vertical gradients of the air temperature, CO(2) concentration and wind field were measured for the dry and wet periods in 2006. We tested the hypothesis that horizontal drainage flow over this study area is significant and can affect the interpretation of the high carbon uptake rates reported by previous works at this site. A similar experimental design as the one by Tóta et al. (2008) was used with a network of wind, air temperature, and CO(2) sensors above and below the forest canopy. A persistent and systematic subcanopy nighttime upslope (positive buoyancy) and daytime downslope (negative buoyancy) flow pattern on a moderately inclined slope (12%) was observed. The microcirculations observed above the canopy (38 m) over the sloping area during nighttime presents a downward motion indicating vertical convergence and correspondent horizontal divergence toward the valley area. During the daytime an inverse pattern was observed. The micro-circulations above the canopy were driven mainly by buoyancy balancing the pressure gradient forces. In the subcanopy space the microcirculations were also driven by the same physical mechanisms but probably with the stress forcing contribution. The results also indicated that the horizontal and vertical scalar gradients (e.g., CO(2)) were modulated by these micro-circulations above and below the canopy, suggesting that estimates of advection using previous experimental approaches are not appropriate due to the tridimensional nature of the vertical and horizontal transport locally. This work also indicates that carbon budget from tower-based measurement is not enough to close the system, and one needs to include horizontal and vertical advection transport of CO(2) into those estimates.
Climate heterogeneity modulates impact of warming on tropical insects.	Evolutionary history and physiology mediate species responses to climate change. Tropical species that do not naturally experience high temperature variability have a narrow thermal tolerance compared to similar taxa at temperate latitudes and could therefore be most vulnerable to warming. However, the thermal adaptation of a species may also be influenced by spatial temperature variations over its geographical range. Spatial climate gradients, especially from topography, may also broaden thermal tolerance and therefore act to buffer warming impacts. Here we show that for low-seasonality environments, high spatial heterogeneity in temperature correlates significantly with greater warming tolerance in insects globally. Based on this relationship, we find that climate change projections of direct physiological impacts on insect fitness highlight the vulnerability of tropical lowland areas to future warming. Thus, in addition to seasonality, spatial heterogeneity may play a critical role in thermal adaptation and climate change impacts particularly in the tropics.
Temporal turnover in the composition of tropical tree communities: functional determinism and phylogenetic stochasticity.	The degree to which turnover in biological communities is structured by deterministic or stochastic factors and the identities of influential deterministic factors are fundamental, yet unresolved, questions in ecology. Answers to these questions are particularly important for projecting the fate of forests with diverse disturbance histories worldwide. To uncover the processes governing turnover we use species-level molecular phylogenies and functional trait data sets for two long-term tropical forest plots with contrasting disturbance histories: one forest is older-growth, and one was recently disturbed. Having both phylogenetic and functional information further allows us to parse out the deterministic influences of different ecological filters. With the use of null models we find that compositional turnover was random with respect to phylogeny on average, but highly nonrandom with respect to measured functional traits. Furthermore, as predicted by a deterministic assembly process, the older-growth and disturbed forests were characterized by less than and greater than expected functional turnover, respectively. These results suggest that the abiotic environment, which changes due to succession in the disturbed forest, strongly governs the temporal dynamics of disturbed and undisturbed tropical forests. Predicting future changes in the composition of disturbed and undisturbed forests may therefore be tractable when using a functional-trait-based approach.
Experimental manipulation of seed shadows of an Afrotropical tree determines drivers of recruitment.	The loss of animals in tropical forests may alter seed dispersal patterns and reduce seedling recruitment of tree species, but direct experimental evidence is scarce. We manipulated dispersal patterns of Manilkara mabokeensis, a monkey-dispersed tree, to assess the extent to which spatial distributions of seeds drive seedling recruitment. Based on the natural seed shadow, we created seed distributions with seeds deposited under the canopy ("no dispersal"), with declining density from the tree ("natural dispersal"), and at uniform densities ("good dispersal"). These distributions mimicked dispersal patterns that could occur with the extirpation of monkeys, low levels of hunting, and high rates of seed dispersal. We monitored seedling emergence and survival for 18 months and recorded the number of leaves and damage to leaves. "Good dispersal" increased seedling survival by 26%, and "no dispersal" decreased survival by 78%, relative to "natural dispersal." Using a mixed-effects survival model, we decoupled the distance and density components of the seed shadow: seedling survival depended on the seed density, but not on the distance from the tree. Although community seedling diversity tended to decrease with longer dispersal distances, we found no conclusive evidence that patterns of seed dispersal influence the diversity of the seedling community. Local seed dispersal does affect seedling recruitment and survival, with better dispersal resulting in higher seedling recruitment; hence the loss of dispersal services that comes with the reduction or extirpation of seed dispersers will decrease regeneration of some tree species.
Spatiotemporal distribution of harmful algal flora in the tropical estuarine complex of Goa, India.	Mandovi and Zuari estuarine complex is monsoon-influenced estuaries located along the central west coast of India. During the past few years, there has been an increase in nutrient loading specially during monsoonal runoff which is responsible for the growth of harmful algal flora. To understand occurrence and distribution of harmful algal blooms species, daily/alternate day samplings were carried out in Mandovi and Zuari estuaries during 2007-2008 and 2008-2009 periods, respectively, comprising of monsoon (June-November) and nonmonsoon (December-May). In Mandovi, total 54 HAB species with 49 in monsoon and 36 during nonmonsoon period were reported. In Zuari, total 46 HAB species with 38 in monsoon and 41 were reported during nonmonsoon period. Bray-Curtis cluster analysis based on log-transformed phytoplankton density detected seven well-defined groups revealing spatiotemporal variability. The density of the dominant harmful algal species was significantly positively correlated with nutrients, but negatively correlated with salinity. The results of the study indicate that monsoon plays an important role in occurrence and distribution of harmful algal species having direct correlation with salinity variations and nutrient loading.
Tropical diseases: definition, geographic distribution, transmission, and classification.	The term tropical diseases encompasses all diseases that occur principally in the tropics. This term covers all communicable and noncommunicable diseases, genetic disorders, and disease caused by nutritional deficiencies or environmental conditions (such as heat, humidity, and altitude) that are encountered in areas that lie between, and alongside, the Tropic of Cancer and Tropic of Capricorn belts. In tropical countries, apart from noncommunicable diseases, a severe burden of disease is caused by an array of different microorganisms, parasites, land and sea animals, and arthropods.
Transplant-associated and blood transfusion-associated tropical and parasitic infections.	Blood transfusion and transplantation may represent efficient mechanisms of spreading infectious agents to naive populations. In the developed countries, as a consequence of globalization, several factors such as international commerce, tourism, and immigration have acted as important features for the emergence or reemergence of infectious diseases previously referred to as tropical. This article reviews the relevant bacterial, protozoan and viral infections that are more frequently associated with blood transfusion and/or solid organ or marrow transplantation and may affect susceptible populations worldwide.
Tropical bacterial gastrointestinal infections.	The bacterial gastrointestinal infections cholera, salmonellosis, shigellosis, campylobacteriosis, and diarrheagenic Escherichia coli are prevalent in tropical regions. These diseases impose an immense cost and contribute significantly to childhood morbidity and mortality. Management is hampered by limited access to diagnostic facilities and by antimicrobial drug resistance. Rapid point-of-care assays aim to reduce treatment delay and encourage rational use of antimicrobial agents. Control through safe drinking water, good sanitation, and vaccination against typhoid and cholera in high-risk populations is recommended. Vaccines against other Shigella and diarrheagenic E coli infections are under development.
Tropical fungal infections.	Fungal infections are more common and diverse in the tropics but are also increasingly seen in returning travelers and migrants as international travel becomes easier. They are conventionally classified into superficial, cutaneous, subcutaneous, and systemic mycoses. This article provides an overview of superficial, cutaneous, and subcutaneous mycoses that are more prevalent and/or geographically restricted to the tropics and briefly discusses fungal infections in returning travelers. Systematic data on such infections as travel-associated diseases are currently lacking, and enhanced surveillance for fungal infections may lead to early diagnosis and an understanding of the epidemiology of the fungal infections among travelers.
Laboratory diagnosis of tropical infections.	This article covers the laboratory diagnosis of infections that occur predominantly in the tropics. The discussion includes diagnosis of blood and tissue parasites, intestinal parasites, and tropical infections caused by fungi, bacteria, and mycobacteria. The laboratory performance of techniques for the identification of intestinal parasites and special requirements for the collection of specimens for virology testing are also discussed. Images demonstrating the characteristic features of selected tropical parasites and fungi are included for reference.
Climate impacts of deforestation/land-use changes in Central South America in the PRECIS regional climate model: mean precipitation and temperature response to present and future deforestation scenarios.	Deforestation/land-use changes are major drivers of regional climate change in central South America, impacting upon Amazonia and Gran Chaco ecoregions. Most experimental and modeling studies have focused on the resulting perturbations within Amazonia. Using the Regional Climate Model PRECIS, driven by ERA-40 reanalysis and ECHAM4 Baseline model for the period 1961-2000 (40-year runs), potential effects of deforestation/land-use changes in these and other neighboring ecoregions are evaluated. Current 2002 and estimated 2030 land-use scenarios are used to assess PRECIS's response during 1960-2000. ERA-40 and ECHAM4 Baseline driven runs yield similar results. Precipitation changes for 2002 and 2030 land-use scenarios, while significant within deforested areas, do not result in significant regional changes. For temperature significant changes are found within deforested areas and beyond, with major temperature enhancements during winter and spring. Given the current climate, primary effects of deforestation/land-use changes remain mostly confined to the tropical latitudes of Gran Chaco, and Amazonia.
Assessing aboveground tropical forest biomass using Google Earth canopy images.	Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and Forest Degradation (REDD) in efforts to combat climate change requires participating countries to periodically assess their forest resources on a national scale. Such a process is particularly challenging in the tropics because of technical difficulties related to large aboveground forest biomass stocks, restricted availability of affordable, appropriate remote-sensing images, and a lack of accurate forest inventory data. In this paper, we apply the Fourier-based FOTO method of canopy texture analysis to Google Earth's very-high-resolution images of the wet evergreen forests in the Western Ghats of India in order to (1) assess the predictive power of the method on aboveground biomass of tropical forests, (2) test the merits of free Google Earth images relative to their native commercial IKONOS counterparts and (3) highlight further research needs for affordable, accurate regional aboveground biomass estimations. We used the FOTO method to ordinate Fourier spectra of 1436 square canopy images (125 x 125 m) with respect to a canopy grain texture gradient (i.e., a combination of size distribution and spatial pattern of tree crowns), benchmarked against virtual canopy scenes simulated from a set of known forest structure parameters and a 3-D light interception model. We then used 15 1-ha ground plots to demonstrate that both texture gradients provided by Google Earth and IKONOS images strongly correlated with field-observed stand structure parameters such as the density of large trees, total basal area, and aboveground biomass estimated from a regional allometric model. Our results highlight the great potential of the FOTO method applied to Google Earth data for biomass retrieval because the texture-biomass relationship is only subject to 15% relative error, on average, and does not show obvious saturation trends at large biomass values. We also provide the first reliable map of tropical forest aboveground biomass predicted from free Google Earth images.
Genetic divergence among invasive and native populations of Plagioscion squamosissimus (Perciformes, Sciaenidae) in Neotropical regions.	The genetic divergence among invasive and native populations of Plagioscion squamosissimus from four Neotropical hydrographic basins was assessed using the hypervariable domain of the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) control region. Plagioscion squamosissimus is native to the neighbouring hydrographic basins of the Parnaíba and Amazon Rivers, and the latter includes the Araguaia-Tocantins drainage, but it is invasive in other basins due to introductions. The mtDNA nucleotide polymorphism supported the hypothesis that the Amazon and Parnaíba populations constitute the same species and are separated into two independent evolutionary lineages. Absence of nucleotide polymorphism was observed within and among P. squamosissimus populations invasive to the uppper and middle Paraná River basins. Nucleotide divergence was null or low comparing the Paraná invasive populations with the populations native to the Parnaíba River basin, whereas it was significantly high compared to Tocantins populations. These results ascertain that P. squamosissimus populations invasive to the upper Paraná River basin and to the middle Paraná River basin downstream of the Itaipu dam are derived from the Parnaíba River basin. The genetic data presented are potentially useful to assist further studies on P. squamosissimus taxonomic and geographic distribution, development of ecological guidelines for managing populations invasive to the upper Paraná River basin and for preservation of native fish diversity.
Cantharellaceae of Guyana I: new species, combinations and distribution records of Craterellus and a synopsis of known taxa.	Members of the Cantharellaceae (Cantharellales, Basidiomycota) are common ectomycorrhizal associates of the leguminous genus Dicymbe in the Pakaraima Mountains of Guyana. Eight distinct species or morphospecies currently are recognized in Craterellus Pers. or Cantharellus Adans. ex Fr. from Guyanese Dicymbe-dominated forests. We evaluated the systematics of these taxa with phylogenetic analyses of DNA sequence data from the nuclear ribosomal regions of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and 28S large subunit (LSU). The results of these analyses along with careful assessment of morphology let us described two new species, Craterellus atratoides sp. nov. and Craterellus strigosus sp. nov., redescribe Craterellus atratus (Corner) Yomyart et al. based on new material from Guyana, and propose a new combination in Craterellus for Cantharellus pleurotoides T.W. Henkel, Aime & S.L. Mill. Macroscopic illustrations are provided for two additional cantharelloid morphospecies confirmed in Craterellus, as well as the regionally endemic Cantharellus guyanensis Mont. Macromorphological, micromorphological and habitat data are provided for C. atratoides, C. strigosus and C. atratus, and ITS and LSU sequence data are provided for each of the eight known Guyanese taxa.
Rapidly growing tropical trees mobilize remarkable amounts of nitrogen, in ways that differ surprisingly among species.	Fast-growing forests such as tropical secondary forests can accumulate large amounts of carbon (C), and thereby play an important role in the atmospheric CO(2) balance. Because nitrogen (N) cycling is inextricably linked with C cycling, the question becomes: Where does the N come from to match high rates of C accumulation? In unique experimental 16-y-old plantations established in abandoned pasture in lowland Costa Rica, we used a mass-balance approach to quantify N accumulation in vegetation, identify sources of N, and evaluate differences among tree species in N cycling. The replicated design contained four broad-leaved evergreen tree species growing under similar environmental conditions. Nitrogen uptake was rapid, reaching 409 (± 30) kg · ha(-1) · y(-1), double the rate reported from a Puerto Rican forest and greater than four times that observed at Hubbard Brook Forest (New Hampshire, USA). Nitrogen amassed in vegetation was 874 (± 176) kg · ha(-1), whereas net losses of soil N (0-100 cm) varied from 217 (±146) to 3,354 (± 915) kg · ha(-1) (P = 0.018) over 16 y. Soil C:N, δ(13)C values, and N budgets indicated that soil was the main source of biomass N. In Vochysia guatemalensis, however, N fixation contributed >60 kg · ha(-1) · y(-1). All species apparently promoted soil N turnover, such that the soil N mean residence time was 32-54 y, an order of magnitude lower than the global mean. High rates of N uptake were associated with substantial N losses in three of the species, in which an average of 1.6 g N was lost for every gram of N accumulated in biomass.
Probing real sensory worlds of receivers with unsupervised clustering.	The task of an organism to extract information about the external environment from sensory signals is based entirely on the analysis of ongoing afferent spike activity provided by the sense organs. We investigate the processing of auditory stimuli by an acoustic interneuron of insects. In contrast to most previous work we do this by using stimuli and neurophysiological recordings directly in the nocturnal tropical rainforest, where the insect communicates. Different from typical recordings in sound proof laboratories, strong environmental noise from multiple sound sources interferes with the perception of acoustic signals in these realistic scenarios. We apply a recently developed unsupervised machine learning algorithm based on probabilistic inference to find frequently occurring firing patterns in the response of the acoustic interneuron. We can thus ask how much information the central nervous system of the receiver can extract from bursts without ever being told which type and which variants of bursts are characteristic for particular stimuli. Our results show that the reliability of burst coding in the time domain is so high that identical stimuli lead to extremely similar spike pattern responses, even for different preparations on different dates, and even if one of the preparations is recorded outdoors and the other one in the sound proof lab. Simultaneous recordings in two preparations exposed to the same acoustic environment reveal that characteristics of burst patterns are largely preserved among individuals of the same species. Our study shows that burst coding can provide a reliable mechanism for acoustic insects to classify and discriminate signals under very noisy real-world conditions. This gives new insights into the neural mechanisms potentially used by bushcrickets to discriminate conspecific songs from sounds of predators in similar carrier frequency bands.
Co-occurrence patterns of common and rare leaf-litter frogs, epiphytic ferns and dung beetles across a gradient of human disturbance.	Indicator taxa are commonly used to identify priority areas for conservation or to measure biological responses to environmental change. Despite their widespread use, there is no general consensus about the ability of indicator taxa to predict wider trends in biodiversity. Many studies have focused on large-scale patterns of species co-occurrence to identify areas of high biodiversity, threat or endemism, but there is much less information about patterns of species co-occurrence at local scales. In this study, we assess fine-scale co-occurrence patterns of three indicator taxa (epiphytic ferns, leaf litter frogs and dung beetles) across a remotely sensed gradient of human disturbance in the Ecuadorian Amazon. We measure the relative contribution of rare and common species to patterns of total richness in each taxon and determine the ability of common and rare species to act as surrogate measures of human disturbance and each other. We find that the species richness of indicator taxa changed across the human disturbance gradient but that the response differed among taxa, and between rare and common species. Although we find several patterns of co-occurrence, these patterns differed between common and rare species. Despite showing complex patterns of species co-occurrence, our results suggest that species or taxa can act as reliable indicators of each other but that this relationship must be established and not assumed.
Sanitary inspection of wells using risk-of-contamination scoring indicates a high predictive ability for bacterial faecal pollution in the peri-urban tropical lowlands of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.	Sanitary inspection of wells was performed according to World Health Organization (WHO) procedures using risk-of-contamination (ROC) scoring in the peri-urban tropical lowlands of Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. The ROC was assessed for its capacity to predict bacterial faecal pollution in the investigated well water. The analysis was based on a selection of wells representing environments with low to high presumptive faecal pollution risk and a multi-parametric data set of bacterial indicators, generating a comprehensive picture of the level and characteristics of faecal pollution (such as vegetative Escherichia coli cells, Clostridium perfringens spores and human-associated sorbitol fermenting Bifidobacteria). ROC scoring demonstrated a remarkable ability to predict bacterial faecal pollution levels in the investigated well water (e.g. 87% of E. coli concentration variations were predicted by ROC scoring). Physicochemical characteristics of the wells were not reflected by the ROC scores. Our results indicate that ROC scoring is a useful tool for supporting health-related well water management in urban and suburban areas of tropical, developing countries. The outcome of this study is discussed in the context of previously published results, and future directions are suggested.
Performance and welfare of high-yielding dairy cows subjected to 5 or 8 cooling sessions daily under hot and humid climate.	The objectives were to determine the effects of cooling of high-yielding dairy cows under a hot and humid climate on intake, milk yield, rumination time, and welfare parameters. Forty-two multiparous Israeli Holstein dairy cows were divided into 2 treatment groups and were housed in an open barn divided into 2 pens. The groups were subjected to different cooling schedules, in a crossover design as follows: cows were exposed to 5 or 8 cooling sessions per day (designated 5CS and 8CS, respectively) in the holding area of the milking parlor. Each period lasted 4 wk, and then treatments were switched for another 4-wk period. Each cooling session lasted 45 min, comprising cycles of 30s of showering and 4.5 min of ventilation without showering. Respiration rate and rectal temperature were recorded twice per week (Monday and Thursday) at 0630 and 1600 h. Rumination and lying times were recorded automatically. Rectal temperatures were 0.16 and 1.08°C lower in 8CS than in 5CS cows in the morning and afternoon, respectively. Respiration rate was lower in 8CS than in 5CS cows in the morning (49.1 and 54.6 breaths/min, respectively), and more so in the afternoon (50.0 and 83.0 breaths/min, respectively). Dry matter intake and milk yields were 9.3 and 9.6% higher in the 8CS than in the 5CS cows (27.0 vs. 24.7 and 40.1 vs. 36.6 kg/d, respectively), with no differences in milk fat and protein contents. Daily rumination time was 7.4% longer in the 8CS than in the 5CS (440.1 and 409.6 min/d, respectively); however, rumination time per unit of dry matter or neutral detergent fiber consumed was higher in the 5CS than in the 8CS cows. Although the 8CS cows moved 3 times more to the milking area for extra cooling sessions than the 5CS ones, they spent 9.9 min/d more than the 5CS ones in lying down (484.4 and 474.5 min/d, respectively), and used more of their free time (excluding milking and feeding time) in resting than the 5CS cows: 52.0 and 43.9%, respectively. It appears that increasing the cooling frequency from 5 to 8 times per day improved their feeling of welfare, so they could spend more time lying and ruminating. In conclusion, increasing the cooling frequency of high-yielding dairy cows under hot and humid conditions from 5 to 8 times a day increased their intake and milk yield, and lowered their respiration rate and rectal temperature. Moreover, the 8CS cows spent more time resting than 5CS cows, an indication that increasing cooling frequency improved animal welfare.
Baseline map of carbon emissions from deforestation in tropical regions.	Policies to reduce emissions from deforestation would benefit from clearly derived, spatially explicit, statistically bounded estimates of carbon emissions. Existing efforts derive carbon impacts of land-use change using broad assumptions, unreliable data, or both. We improve on this approach using satellite observations of gross forest cover loss and a map of forest carbon stocks to estimate gross carbon emissions across tropical regions between 2000 and 2005 as 0.81 petagram of carbon per year, with a 90% prediction interval of 0.57 to 1.22 petagrams of carbon per year. This estimate is 25 to 50% of recently published estimates. By systematically matching areas of forest loss with their carbon stocks before clearing, these results serve as a more accurate benchmark for monitoring global progress on reducing emissions from deforestation.
Temperature dependence of locomotor performance in the tropical clawed frog, Xenopus tropicalis.	Amphibians are ideal taxa with which to investigate the effects of climate change on physiology, dispersal capacity and distributional ranges as their physiological performance and fitness is highly dependent on temperature. Moreover, amphibians are among the most endangered vertebrate taxa. Here we use the tropical clawed frog, Xenopus tropicalis, as a model system to explore effects of temperature on locomotor performance. Our analyses show that locomotion is thermally sensitive, as illustrated by significant effects of temperature on terrestrial exertion capacity (time until exhaustion) and aquatic burst speed (maximal burst swimming velocity and maximal burst swimming acceleration capacity). Exertion performance measures had relatively lower temperature optima and narrower performance breadth ranges than measures of burst speed. The narrow 80% performance breadths confirm predictions that animals from stable environments should display high thermal sensitivity and, combined with the divergent temperature optima for exertion capacity and burst speed, underscore the vulnerability of tropical species such as X. tropicalis to even relatively small temperature changes. The temperature sensitivity of locomotor performance traits in X. tropicalis suggests that tropical ectotherms may be impacted by predicted changes in climate.
Environmental temperature affects prevalence of blood parasites of birds on an elevation gradient: implications for disease in a warming climate.	The rising global temperature is predicted to expand the distribution of vector-borne diseases both in latitude and altitude. Many host communities could be affected by increased prevalence of disease, heightening the risk of extinction for many already threatened species. To understand how host communities could be affected by changing parasite distributions, we need information on the distribution of parasites in relation to variables like temperature and rainfall that are predicted to be affected by climate change.
Weather indices for designing micro-insurance products for small-holder farmers in the tropics.	Agriculture is inherently risky. Drought is a particularly troublesome hazard that has a documented adverse impact on agricultural development. A long history of decision-support tools have been developed to try and help farmers or policy makers manage risk. We offer site-specific drought insurance methodology as a significant addition to this process. Drought insurance works by encapsulating the best available scientific estimate of drought probability and severity at a site within a single number- the insurance premium, which is offered by insurers to insurable parties in a transparent risk-sharing agreement. The proposed method is demonstrated in a case study for dry beans in Nicaragua.
Mercury in tropical and subtropical coastal environments.	Anthropogenic activities influence the biogeochemical cycles of mercury, both qualitatively and quantitatively, on a global scale from sources to sinks. Anthropogenic processes that alter the temporal and spatial patterns of sources and cycling processes are changing the impacts of mercury contamination on aquatic biota and humans. Human exposure to mercury is dominated by the consumption of fish and products from aquaculture operations. The risk to society and to ecosystems from mercury contamination is growing, and it is important to monitor these expanding risks. However, the extent and manner to which anthropogenic activities will alter mercury sources and biogeochemical cycling in tropical and sub-tropical coastal environments is poorly understood. Factors as (1) lack of reliable local/regional data; (2) rapidly changing environmental conditions; (3) governmental priorities and; (4) technical actions from supra-national institutions, are some of the obstacles to overcome in mercury cycling research and policy formulation. In the tropics and sub-tropics, research on mercury in the environment is moving from an exploratory "inventory" phase towards more process-oriented studies. Addressing biodiversity conservation and human health issues related to mercury contamination of river basins and tropical coastal environments are an integral part of paragraph 221 of the United Nations document "The Future We Want" issued in Rio de Janeiro in June 2012.
Effects of season, browse species and polyethylene glycol addition on gas production kinetics of forages in the subhumid subtropical savannah, South Africa.	This study was conducted to investigate the effects of season, species and polyethylene glycol addition on gas production (GP) and GP kinetic parameters by in vitro incubation (72 h) of five plant species from the subhumid subtropical savannah, South Africa. Plant species used were Acacia natalitia, Acacia nilotica, Dichrostachys cinerea, Scutia myrtina and Chromolaena odorata, leaves of which were harvested during the dry (June/July), early wet (November/December) and late wet (February/March) seasons. An automated in vitro gas production technique was used in two experiments carried out with nine replicates. The first experiment was to test the effect of season and species, while the second experiment tested the effect of tannins using polyethylene glycol 4000 (PEG). The PEG treatment was applied to samples in the early wet and late wet seasons.
Trend analysis of a tropical urban river water quality in Malaysia.	Rivers play a significant role in providing water resources for human and ecosystem survival and health. Hence, river water quality is an important parameter that must be preserved and monitored. As the state of Selangor and the city of Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, are undergoing tremendous development, the river is subjected to pollution from point and non-point sources. The water quality of the Klang River basin, one of the most densely populated areas within the region, is significantly degraded due to human activities as well as urbanization. Evaluation of the overall river water quality status is normally represented by a water quality index (WQI), which consists of six parameters, namely dissolved oxygen, biochemical oxygen demand, chemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, ammoniacal nitrogen and pH. The objectives of this study are to assess the water quality status for this tropical, urban river and to establish the WQI trend. Using monthly WQI data from 1997 to 2007, time series were plotted and trend analysis was performed by employing the first-order autocorrelated trend model on the moving average values for every station. The initial and final values of either the moving average or the trend model were used as the estimates of the initial and final WQI at the stations. It was found that Klang River water quality has shown some improvement between 1997 and 2007. Water quality remains good in the upper stream area, which provides vital water sources for water treatment plants in the Klang valley. Meanwhile, the water quality has also improved in other stations. Results of the current study suggest that the present policy on managing river quality in the Klang River has produced encouraging results; the policy should, however, be further improved alongside more vigorous monitoring of pollution discharge from various point sources such as industrial wastewater, municipal sewers, wet markets, sand mining and landfills, as well as non-point sources such as agricultural or urban runoff and commercial activity.
Effects of tropical montane forest disturbance on epiphytic macrolichens.	The high diversity of epiphytes typical of undisturbed montane tropical forests has been negatively affected by continuous deforestation and forest conversion to secondary vegetation. Macrolichens are an important component of these epiphytes. Because their physiology is strongly coupled to humidity and solar radiation, we hypothesized that microclimatic changes derived from forest clearing and logging can affect the diversity of these poikilohydric organisms. In southern Ecuador, we examined three types of forests according to a disturbance gradient (primary forests, secondary forests, and monospecific forests of Alnus acuminata) for the presence/absence and coverage of epiphytic macrolichens that we identified on 240 trees. We found that total richness tended to decrease when the range of the disturbance increased. The impoverishment was particularly drastic for "shade-adapted lichens", while the richness of "heliophytic lichens" increased in the drier conditions of secondary growth. Epiphytic composition also differed significantly among the three types of forests, and the similarity decreased when the range of the disturbance was greater. We concluded that a span of 40 years of recovery by secondary vegetation was not enough to regenerate the diversity of epiphytic macrolichens that was lost due to forest disturbances.
Why do tropical mountains support exceptionally high biodiversity? The Eastern Arc mountains and the drivers of Saintpaulia diversity.	We combine information about the evolutionary history and distributional patterns of the genus Saintpaulia H. Wendl. (Gesneriaceae; 'African violets') to elucidate the factors and processes behind the accumulation of species in tropical montane areas of high biodiversity concentration. We find that high levels of biodiversity in the Eastern Arc Mountains are the result of pre-Quaternary speciation processes and environmental stability. Our results support the hypothesis that climatically stable mountaintops may have acted as climatic refugia for lowland lineages during the Pleistocene by preventing extinctions. In addition, we found evidence for the existence of lowland micro-refugia during the Pleistocene, which may explain the high species diversity of East African coastal forests. We discuss the conservation implications of the results in the context of future climate change.
The colonization of carrion by soldier fly, Ptecticus melanurus (Walker) (Diptera: Stratiomyidae) in a tropical forest in Malaysia: a new potential species for minimum PMI estimation.	This paper discusses the colonization of the stratiomyid species Ptecticus melanurus   (Walker) (Diptera: Stratiomyidae) in monkey carrion and its potential for the determination of   the minimum time since death (PMI). A study was conducted in a tropical forest at Bangi,   Malaysia from 13 November 2009 to 8 June 2011. Twelve monkey carcasses (Macaca   fascicularis Raffles) were used and divided in equal number into three different field trials.   Adults of P. melanurus were first observed on monkey carrions on the second day the   carcasses were placed in the field while their penultimate instar larvae were found in the wet   soil under and beside carcass from day 8 to 31 days postmortem.
Differential impact of monsoon and large amplitude internal waves on coral reef development in the Andaman Sea.	The Andaman Sea and other macrotidal semi-enclosed tropical seas feature large amplitude internal waves (LAIW). Although LAIW induce strong fluctuations i.e. of temperature, pH, and nutrients, their influence on reef development is so far unknown. A better-known source of disturbance is the monsoon affecting corals due to turbulent mixing and sedimentation. Because in the Andaman Sea both, LAIW and monsoon, act from the same westerly direction their relative contribution to reef development is difficult to discern. Here, we explore the framework development in a number of offshore island locations subjected to differential LAIW- and SW-monsoon impact to address this open question. Cumulative negative temperature anomalies - a proxy for LAIW impact - explained a higher percentage of the variability in coral reef framework height, than sedimentation rates which resulted mainly from the monsoon. Temperature anomalies and sediment grain size provided the best correlation with framework height suggesting that so far neglected subsurface processes (LAIW) play a significant role in shaping coral reefs.
Seasonality of tropical instability waves and its feedback to the seasonal cycle in the tropical eastern Pacific.	This study investigated the seasonality of tropical instability waves (TIWs) and its feedback to the seasonal cycle in the tropical eastern Pacific using a high-resolution ocean model covering 1958-2007. The climatological mean of the TIWs featured intraseasonal fluctuations, implying that TIWs are not occurring randomly, but their amplitude is partly in phase from one year to another. This seasonality of TIW activity is attributed to their dependency on the seasonal mean variation of current and temperature. Energy conversion analysis confirmed that the strong variability of TIWs near 4°N was due to the barotropic energy conversion associated with the large meridional shear of NECC and SEC and that at another pole near 2°N was due to the baroclinic energy conversion associated with the temperature front in the mixed layer. The former and latter poles are somehow largely responsible for amplifying the dynamic and thermal eddies of TIWs, respectively. The intensified TIWs during a boreal fall increase the tropical eastern Pacific SST by associating the warm thermal advection by anomalous currents, with a rate of up to 1°C/month in September. Therefore, this leads to interactive feedback between seasonal and intraseasonal variations, that is, TIWs in the tropical eastern Pacific.
Role of dentists in Indonesian disaster victim identification operations: religious and cultural aspects.	Indonesia is the largest archipelago in the world, consisting of five main islands and 17,500 smaller islands, spread across three seismic belts that run throughout the country. Indonesia is extremely prone to disasters, both natural and manmade. With a total population of nearly 250 million people, Indonesia's Muslim community exceeds 180 million - the largest Muslim population in the world. On December 26, 2004 an earthquake and tsunami hit Aceh resulting in an estimated 165,00 deaths (mostly Muslims) and half a million people displaced. The members of the Disaster Victim Identification (DVI) operations faced unique obstacles. Speed was required because families wished to bury their relatives within 24 hours (before the next prayer time) and the hot tropical climate caused rapid decomposition of bodies. At the same time, survivors needed medical help; there was total destruction of facilities; minimal equipment; ante mortem data destroyed by the flood; and no electricity, transportation, water or food. DVI was of necessity basic so that the team of 33 could process tens of thousands of victims. Lessons were learnt including the need to involve religions leaders immediately; revise the DVI protocols that were designed for manmade (and smaller) mass disasters; provision of individual cameras, laptops and portable x-ray devices; and attention to more efficient use of mass graves.
Isotopic composition of atmospheric nitrate in a tropical marine boundary layer.	Long-term observations of the reactive chemical composition of the tropical marine boundary layer (MBL) are rare, despite its crucial role for the chemical stability of the atmosphere. Recent observations of reactive bromine species in the tropical MBL showed unexpectedly high levels that could potentially have an impact on the ozone budget. Uncertainties in the ozone budget are amplified by our poor understanding of the fate of NOx (= NO + NO2), particularly the importance of nighttime chemical NOx sinks. Here, we present year-round observations of the multiisotopic composition of atmospheric nitrate in the tropical MBL at the Cape Verde Atmospheric Observatory. We show that the observed oxygen isotope ratios of nitrate are compatible with nitrate formation chemistry, which includes the BrNO3 sink at a level of ca. 20 ± 10% of nitrate formation pathways. The results also suggest that the N2O5 pathway is a negligible NOx sink in this environment. Observations further indicate a possible link between the NO2/NOx ratio and the nitrogen isotopic content of nitrate in this low NOx environment, possibly reflecting the seasonal change in the photochemical equilibrium among NOx species. This study demonstrates the relevance of using the stable isotopes of oxygen and nitrogen of atmospheric nitrate in association with concentration measurements to identify and constrain chemical processes occurring in the MBL. 
Leaf life span spectrum of tropical woody seedlings: effects of light and ontogeny and consequences for survival.	Leaf life span is widely recognized as a key life history trait associated with herbivory resistance, but rigorous comparative data are rare for seedlings. The goal of this study was to examine how light environment affects leaf life span, and how ontogenetic development during the first year may influence leaf fracture toughness, lamina density and stem density that are relevant for herbivory resistance, leaf life span and seedling survival.
Iron oxidation stimulates organic matter decomposition in humid tropical forest soils.	Humid tropical forests have the fastest rates of organic matter decomposition globally, which often coincide with fluctuating oxygen (O2 ) availability in surface soils. Microbial iron (Fe) reduction generates reduced iron [Fe(II)] under anaerobic conditions, which oxidizes to Fe(III) under subsequent aerobic conditions. We demonstrate that Fe (II) oxidation stimulates organic matter decomposition via two mechanisms: (i) organic matter oxidation, likely driven by reactive oxygen species; and (ii) increased dissolved organic carbon (DOC) availability, likely driven by acidification. Phenol oxidative activity increased linearly with Fe(II) concentrations (P < 0.0001, pseudo R(2)  = 0.79) in soils sampled within and among five tropical forest sites. A similar pattern occurred in the absence of soil, suggesting an abiotic driver of this reaction. No phenol oxidative activity occurred in soils under anaerobic conditions, implying the importance of oxidants such as O2 or hydrogen peroxide (H2 O2 ) in addition to Fe(II). Reactions between Fe(II) and H2 O2 generate hydroxyl radical, a strong nonselective oxidant of organic compounds. We found increasing consumption of H2 O2 as soil Fe(II) concentrations increased, suggesting that reactive oxygen species produced by Fe(II) oxidation explained variation in phenol oxidative activity among samples. Amending soils with Fe(II) at field concentrations stimulated short-term C mineralization by up to 270%, likely via a second mechanism. Oxidation of Fe(II) drove a decrease in pH and a monotonic increase in DOC; a decline of two pH units doubled DOC, likely stimulating microbial respiration. We obtained similar results by manipulating soil acidity independently of Fe(II), implying that Fe(II) oxidation affected C substrate availability via pH fluctuations, in addition to producing reactive oxygen species. Iron oxidation coupled to organic matter decomposition contributes to rapid rates of C cycling across humid tropical forests in spite of periodic O2 limitation, and may help explain the rapid turnover of complex C molecules in these soils. 
Spatial patterns of bacterial and archaeal communities along the Romanche Fracture Zone (tropical Atlantic).	The composition of prokaryotic communities was determined in the meso- and bathypelagic waters funneled through the Romanche Fracture Zone (RFZ, 2°7'S, 31°79'W to 0°6'N, 14°33'W) in the tropical Atlantic. Distinct water masses were identified based on their physical and chemical characteristics. The bacterial and archaeal communities were depth-stratified with a total of 116 and 25 operational taxonomic units (OTUs), respectively, distributed among the distinct water masses as revealed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, and cloning and sequencing. The relative abundance of Thaumarchaeota, determined by catalyzed reporter deposition-fluorescence in situ hybridization, was significantly higher in deeper layers (Antarctic Bottom Water, AABW, > 4000 m depth), contributing up to 31% to the total prokaryotic community, than in the mesopelagic and lower euphotic layer. Although the contribution of SAR11 to bacterial abundance did not increase with depth, SAR202, SAR324, SAR406 and Alteromonas did increase with depth. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis revealed successional changes in the bacterial and archaeal community composition of the North Atlantic Deep Water (NADW) with a passage time through the RFZ of c. 4 months but not in the under- and overlying water masses. Our results indicate that specific water masses harbor distinct bacterial and archaeal communities and that the prokaryotic community of the NADW undergoes successional changes in this conduit between the western and eastern Atlantic basin. Apparently, in the absence of major input of organic matter to specific deep-water masses, the indigenous prokaryotic community adapts to subtle physical and biogeochemical changes in the water mass within a time frame of weeks, similar to the reported seasonal changes in surface water prokaryotic communities.
Anomalous, extreme weather disrupts obligate seed dispersal mutualism: snow in a subtropical forest ecosystem.	Ongoing global climate change is predicted to increase the frequency and magnitude of extreme weather events, impacting population dynamics and community structure. There is, however, a critical lack of case studies considering how climatic perturbations affect biotic interactions. Here, we document how an obligate seed dispersal mutualism was disrupted by a temporally anomalous and meteorologically extreme interlude of unseasonably frigid weather, with accompanying snowstorms, in subtropical China, during January-February 2008. Based on the analysis of 5892 fecal samples (representing six mammalian seed dispersers), this event caused a substantial disruption to the relative seed dispersal function for the raisin tree Hovenia dulcis from prestorm 6.29 (2006) and 11.47 (2007), down to 0.35 during the storm (2008). Crucially, this was due to impacts on mammalian seed dispersers and not due to a paucity of fruit, where 4.63 fruit per branch were available in January 2008, vs. 3.73 in 2006 and 3.58 in 2007. An induced dietary shift occurred among omnivorous carnivores during this event, from the consumption fruit to small mammals and birds, reducing their role in seed dispersal substantially. Induced range shift extinguished the functionality of herbivorous mammals completely, however, seed dispersal function was compensated in part by three omnivorous carnivores during poststorm years, and thus while the mutualism remained intact it was enacted by a narrower assemblage of species, rendering the system more vulnerable to extrinsic perturbations. The storm's extended effects also had anthropogenic corollaries - migrating ungulates becoming exposed to heightened levels of illegal hunting - causing long-term modification to the seed dispersal community and mutualism dynamics. Furthermore, degraded forests proved especially vulnerable to the storm's effects. Considering increasing climate variability and anthropogenic disturbance, the impacts of such massive, aberrant events warrant conservation concern, while affording unique insights into the stability of mutualisms and the processes that structure biodiversity and mediate ecosystem dynamics.
Development of equations to estimate microbial contamination in ruminal incubation residues of forage produced under tropical conditions using 15N as a label.	The objective of this study was to use (15)N to label microbial cells to allow development of equations for estimating the microbial contamination in ruminal in situ incubation residues of forage produced under tropical conditions. A total of 24 tropical forages were ruminal incubated in 3 steers at 3 separate times. To determine microbial contamination of the incubated residues, ruminal bacteria were labeled with (15)N by continuous intraruminal infusion 60 h before the first incubation and continued until the last day of incubation. Ruminal digesta was collected for the isolation of bacteria before the first infusion of (15)N on adaptation period and after the infusion of (15)N on collection period. To determine the microbial contamination of CP fractions, restricted models were compared with the full model using the model identity test. A value of the corrected fraction "A" was estimated from the corresponding noncorrected fraction by this equation: Corrected "A" fraction (A(CP)C) = 1.99286 + 0.98256 × A" fraction without correction (A(CP)WC). The corrected fraction "B" was estimated from the corresponding noncorrected fraction and from CP, NDF, neutral detergent insoluble protein (NDIP), and indigestible NDF (iNDF) using the equation corrected "B" fraction (B(CP)C) = -17.2181 - 0.0344 × fraction "B" without correction (B(CP)WC) + 0.65433 × CP + 1.03787 × NDF + 2.66010 × NDIP - 0.85979 × iNDF. The corrected degradation rate of "B" fraction (kd)was estimated using the equation corrected degradation rate of "B" fraction (kd(CP)C) = 0.04667 + 0.35139 × degradation rate of "B" fraction without correction (kd(CP)WC) + 0.0020 × CP - 0.00055839 × NDF - 0.00336 × NDIP + 0.00075089 × iNDF. This equation was obtained to estimate the contamination using CP of the feeds: %C = 79.21 × (1 - e(-0.0555t)) × e(-0.0874CP). It was concluded that A and B fractions and kd of CP could be highly biased by microbial CP contamination, and therefore these corrected values could be obtained mathematically, replacing the use of microbial markers. The percentage of contamination and the corrected apparent degradability of CP could be obtained from values of CP and time of incubation for each feed, which could reduce cost and labor involved when using (15)N.
Effects of feeding system and slaughter age on the growth and carcass characteristics of tropical-breed steers.	This study aimed to compare the growth performances and carcass characteristics of tropical-breed steers reared in 2 contrasted feeding systems (indoor vs. pasture) and slaughtered at different ages (early vs. late). A total of 309 Creole steers (growing at an initial BW of 173 ± 3 kg and an initial age of 252 ± 4 d) were used over a continuous 12-yr study. Indoor steers were housed in a cattle shed, fed fresh-cut grass plus concentrate, and slaughtered at 14.5 or 17.1 ± 0.1 mo of age. Pasture steers were pasture grazed without supplemental feed, and slaughtered at 17.6 and 21.2 ± 0.1 mo of age. Indoor-fed steers had a greater ADG (786 vs. 517 ± 29 g•d(-1); P < 0.0001) and more carcass fat (164 vs. 145 ± 4.5 g•kg(-1); P = 0.001) than pasture-fed steers. Late-slaughtered steers had decreased ADG (630 vs. 673 ± 27 g•d(-1); P = 0.001) but greater dressing percentages (hot dressing percentage = 55.7 vs. 54.7 ± 0.34%; chilled dressing percentage = 54.5 vs. 53.4 ± 0.34%; P < 0.0001) than early-slaughtered steers. The interaction between feeding system and slaughter age was significant for carcass tissue composition. Whole-carcass muscle content was greater in late-slaughtered steers than early-slaughtered steers, especially in pasture-fed steers (720 vs. 698 ± 6.0 g•kg(-1); P < 0.0001), but less so in indoor-fed steers (707 vs. 700 ± 5.9 g•kg(-1); P = 0.046). Furthermore, increasing slaughter age had no effect on carcass fat in indoor-fed steers (162 vs. 166 ± 4.8 g•kg(-1); P = 0.342), but decreased carcass fat in pasture-fed steers (150 vs. 140 ± 5.0 g•kg(-1); P = 0.014). The results showed that slaughter age and feeding system are 2 major factors that independently affect most of the growth and carcass traits of tropical-breed steers but jointly influence tissue deposition. Our study found that in tropical-breed steers that are grazing, late slaughtering grazing steers increased carcass muscle content without extra fat, thus yielding a carcass quality better suited to consumer choices. 
Investigating the spatial distribution of phototrophic picoplankton in a tropical estuary.	We sampled extensively (29 stations) at the Klang estuarine system over a 3-day scientific expedition. We measured physical and chemical variables (temperature, salinity, dissolved oxygen, total suspended solids, dissolved inorganic nutrients) and related them to the spatial distribution of phototrophic picoplankton (Ppico). Multivariate analysis of variance of the physicochemical variables showed the heterogeneity of the Klang estuarine system where the stations at each transect were significantly different (Rao's F₁₈, ₃₆ = 8.401, p < 0.001). Correlation analyses also showed that variables related to Ppico abundance and growth were mutually exclusive. Distribution of Ppico was best explained by the physical mixing between freshwater and seawater whereas Ppico growth was correlated with temperature.
Ammonium treatments to suppress toxic blooms of Prymnesium parvum in a subtropical lake of semi-arid climate: results from in situ mesocosm experiments.	Prymnesium parvum is a haptophyte alga that forms toxic, fish-killing blooms in a variety of brackish coastal and inland waters. Its abundance and toxicity are suppressed by ammonium additions in laboratory cultures and aquaculture ponds. In a cove of a large reservoir (Lake Granbury, Texas, USA) with recurring, seasonal blooms of P. parvum, ammonium additions were tested in mesocosm enclosures for their ability to suppress blooms and their effects on non-target planktonic organisms. One experiment occurred prior to the peak abundance of a P. parvum bloom in the cove, and one encompassed the peak abundance and decline of the bloom. During 21-day experiments, weekly doses raised ammonium concentrations by either 10 or 40 μM. The added ammonium accumulated in experimental mesocosms, with little uptake by biota or other losses. Effects of ammonium additions generally increased over the course of the experiments. The higher ammonium dose suppressed the abundance and toxicity of P. parvum. The biomass of non-haptophyte algae was stimulated by ammonium additions, while positive, negative and neutral effects on zooplankton taxa were observed. Low ammonium additions insufficient to control P. parvum exacerbated its harmful effects. Our results indicate a potential for mitigating blooms of P. parvum with sufficient additions of ammonium to coves of larger lakes. However, factors excluded from mesocosms, such as dilution of ammonium by water exchange and sediment ammonium uptake, could reduce the effectiveness of such additions, and they would entail a risk of eutrophication from the added nitrogen.
Impact of elevated CO2 and temperature on soil C and N dynamics in relation to CH4 and N2O emissions from tropical flooded rice (Oryza sativa L.).	A field experiment was carried out to investigate the impact of elevated carbon dioxide (CO2) (CEC, 550 μmol mol(-1)) and elevated CO2+elevated air temperature (CECT, 550 μmol mol(-1) and 2°C more than control chamber (CC)) on soil labile carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) pools, microbial populations and enzymatic activities in relation to emissions of methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) in a flooded alluvial soil planted with rice cv. Naveen in open top chambers (OTCs). The labile soil C pools, namely microbial biomass C, readily mineralizable C, water soluble carbohydrate C and potassium permanganate oxidizable C were increased by 27, 23, 38 and 37% respectively under CEC than CC (ambient CO2, 394 μmol mol(-1)). The total organic carbon (TOC) in root exudates was 28.9% higher under CEC than CC. The labile N fractions were also increased significantly (29%) in CEC than CC. Methanogens and denitrifier populations in rhizosphere were higher under CEC and CECT. As a result, CH4 and N2O-N emissions were enhanced by 26 and 24.6% respectively, under CEC in comparison to open field (UC, ambient CO2, 394 μmol mol(-1)) on seasonal basis. The global warming potential (GWP) was increased by 25% under CEC than CC. However, emissions per unit of grain yield under elevated CO2 and temperature were similar to those observed at ambient CO2. The stimulatory effect on CH4 and N2O emissions under CEC was linked with the increased amount of soil labile C, C rich root exudates, lowered Eh, higher Fe(+2) concentration and increased activities of methanogens and extracellular enzymes.
Tropical forests and global change: filling knowledge gaps.	Tropical forests will experience major changes in environmental conditions this century. Understanding their responses to such changes is crucial to predicting global carbon cycling. Important knowledge gaps exist: the causes of recent changes in tropical forest dynamics remain unclear and the responses of entire tropical trees to environmental changes are poorly understood. In this Opinion article, we argue that filling these knowledge gaps requires a new research strategy, one that focuses on trees instead of leaves or communities, on long-term instead of short-term changes, and on understanding mechanisms instead of documenting changes. We propose the use of tree-ring analyses, stable-isotope analyses, manipulative field experiments, and well-validated simulation models to improve predictions of forest responses to global change. 
Composition and sources of aliphatic lipids and sterols in sediments of a tropical island, southern South China Sea: preliminary assessment.	Near-shore surface sediment was collected from five stations off Redang Island located on the eastern coast of Peninsular Malaysia. Freeze-dried sediments were Soxhlet extracted and then fractionated using column chromatography into aliphatic and polar fractions. Determination of these fractions was carried out using gas chromatography mass spectrometry. The concentration of total resolved aliphatic hydrocarbons in sediments ranged from 157 to 308 ng/g. The distribution of aliphatic fraction showed the presence of n-alkanes ranging from nC15 to nC33 with a minor odd-to-even predominance exhibiting carbon maximum, depending on station, at nC17, nC26, nC29 or nC31. Calculation of Carbon Preference Index (CPI) for CPI(15-33) gave values ranging from 1.09 to 1.46. n-Alkanol in all sediment exhibits even-to-odd carbon predominance ranging from nC16 to nC28 and maximising at nC22. n-Fatty acids distribution ranged from nC14 to nC24 with a dominant maximum at nC16 and exhibiting high values of short chain fatty acids (≤nC20) to long chain fatty acids (>nC20) ratios. Unsaturated fatty acids, particularly nC16:1 and nC18:1 is also ubiquitous in all samples. Cholesterol is the most abundant compound amongst the sterol group ranging from 42.8 to 62.6% of the total sterols. β-Sitosterol, brassicasterol and stigmasterol, are also present but of relatively lower amount. These observations suggest that the aliphatic lipids and sterols in the study area originate, mainly, from biogenic sources of marine microbial with minor contribution from epiticular waxes of terrestrial plants.
Demographic consequences of chromatic leaf defence in tropical tree communities: do red young leaves increase growth and survival?	Many tropical forest tree species delay greening their leaves until full expansion. This strategy is thought to provide newly flushing leaves with protection against damage by herbivores by keeping young leaves devoid of nutritive value. Because young leaves suffer the greatest predation from invertebrate herbivores, delayed greening could prevent costly tissue loss. Many species that delay greening also produce anthocyanin pigments in their new leaves, giving them a reddish tint. These anthocyanins may be fungicidal, protect leaves against UV damage or make leaves cryptic to herbivores blind to the red part of the spectrum.
Variations in atmospheric CO2 growth rates coupled with tropical temperature.	Previous studies have highlighted the occurrence and intensity of El Niño-Southern Oscillation as important drivers of the interannual variability of the atmospheric CO2 growth rate, but the underlying biogeophysical mechanisms governing such connections remain unclear. Here we show a strong and persistent coupling (r(2) ≈ 0.50) between interannual variations of the CO2 growth rate and tropical land-surface air temperature during 1959 to 2011, with a 1 °C tropical temperature anomaly leading to a 3.5 ± 0.6 Petagrams of carbon per year (PgC/y) CO2 growth-rate anomaly on average. Analysis of simulation results from Dynamic Global Vegetation Models suggests that this temperature-CO2 coupling is contributed mainly by the additive responses of heterotrophic respiration (Rh) and net primary production (NPP) to temperature variations in tropical ecosystems. However, we find a weaker and less consistent (r(2) ≈ 0.25) interannual coupling between CO2 growth rate and tropical land precipitation than diagnosed from the Dynamic Global Vegetation Models, likely resulting from the subtractive responses of tropical Rh and NPP to precipitation anomalies that partly offset each other in the net ecosystem exchange (i.e., net ecosystem exchange ≈ Rh - NPP). Variations in other climate variables (e.g., large-scale cloudiness) and natural disturbances (e.g., volcanic eruptions) may induce transient reductions in the temperature-CO2 coupling, but the relationship is robust during the past 50 y and shows full recovery within a few years after any such major variability event. Therefore, it provides an important diagnostic tool for improved understanding of the contemporary and future global carbon cycle. 
Functional morphology of the genital organs in the wild paca (Cuniculus paca) female.	Functional morphology of the genital organs is a key knowledge component for enhanced understanding of physiological patterns and for the determination of the reproductive performance in wild species. This study examines the morphology of genital organs of 133 paca females in the wild. Estimated conceptions and parturitions were mostly (83.7% and 75.5%, respectively) localized in the wet season. The pregnancy rate between 57.1% and 61.4% suggests an estimated yearly production of 1.37-1.48 parturitions and a long estimated farrowing interval of 247-266 days. Although large antral follicles were observed in all females, pregnant females had a greater number of antral follicles than females in the luteal phase. The average litter size was 1.03 foetuses per pregnant female, and mean ovulation rate was 1.33 follicles, resulting in a rate of reproductive wastage of 28.7%. The constituent active luteal tissues of the ovary were oestrous cyclic, pregnancy and accessory CL. The 50% of pregnant females in the late pregnancy stage lacked pregnancy CL, suggesting that placenta may become the mean source of progesterone during late stages of pregnancy. Results of the present study suggest that the observation of the vaginal closure membrane should not be an accurate tool for diagnosing oestrus in the paca female. 
Comparative analysis of Mafriwal (Bos taurus × Bos indicus) and Kedah Kelantan (Bos indicus) sperm proteome identifies sperm proteins potentially responsible for higher fertility in a tropical climate.	The fertility of zebu cattle (Bos indicus) is higher than that of the European purebred (Bos taurus) and crossbred (Bos taurus × Bos indicus) cattle in tropical areas. To identify proteins related to the higher thermo-tolerance and fertility of Zebu cattle, this study was undertaken to identify differences in sperm proteome between the high fertile Malaysian indigenous zebu cattle (Kedah Kelantan) and the sub-fertile crossbred cattle (Mafriwal). Frozen semen from three high performance bulls from each breed were processed to obtain live and pure sperm. Sperm proteins were then extracted, and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis performed to compare proteome profiles. Gel image analysis identified protein spots of interest which were then identified by liquid chromatography mass spectrometry quadrupole time-of-flight (LC MS/MS Q-TOF). STRING network analysis predicted interactions between at least 20 of the identified proteins. Among the identified proteins, a number of motility and energy related proteins were present in greater abundance in Kedah Kelantan. Sperm motility evaluation by Computer Assisted Semen Analysis (CASA) confirmed significantly higher motility in Kedah Kelantan. While results from this study do identify proteins that may be responsible for the higher fertility of Kedah Kelantan, functional characterization of these proteins is warranted to reinforce our understanding of their roles in sperm fertility. 
Native plant resources to optimize the performances of forest rehabilitation in Mediterranean and tropical environment: some examples of nursing plant species that improve the soil mycorrhizal potential]	The overexploitation of natural resources, resulting in an increased need for arable lands by local populations, causes a serious dysfunction in the soil's biological functioning (mineral deficiency, salt stress, etc.). This dysfunction, worsened by the climatic conditions (drought), requires the implementation of ecological engineering strategies allowing the rehabilitation of degraded areas through the restoration of essential ecological services. The first symptoms of weathering processes of soil quality in tropical and Mediterranean environments result in an alteration of the plant cover structure with, in particular, the pauperization of plant species diversity and abundance. This degradation is accompanied by a weakening of soils and an increase of the impact of erosion on the surface layer resulting in reduced fertility of soils in terms of their physicochemical characteristics as well as their biological ones (e.g., soil microbes). Among the microbial components particularly sensitive to erosion, symbiotic microorganisms (rhizobia, Frankia, mycorrhizal fungi) are known to be key components in the main terrestrial biogeochemical cycles (C, N and P). Many studies have shown the importance of the management of these symbiotic microorganisms in rehabilitation and revegetation strategies of degraded environments, but also in improving the productivity of agrosystems. In particular, the selection of symbionts and their inoculation into the soil were strongly encouraged in recent decades. These inoculants were selected not only for their impact on the plant, but also for their ability to persist in the soil at the expense of the residual native microflora. The performance of this technique was thus evaluated on the plant cover, but its impact on soil microbial characteristics was totally ignored. The role of microbial diversity on productivity and stability (resistance, resilience, etc.) of eco- and agrosystems has been identified relatively recently and has led to a questioning of the conceptual bases of controlled inoculation in sustainable land management. It has been suggested that the environmental characteristics of the area to rehabilitate should be taken into account, and more particularly its degradation level in relation to the threshold of ecological resilience. This consideration should lead to the optimization of the cultural practices to either (i) restore the original properties of an ecosystem in case of slightly degraded environments or (ii) transform an ecosystem in case of highly degraded soils (e.g., mine soils). In this chapter, we discuss, through various examples of experiments conducted in tropical and Mediterranean areas, the performance of different strategies to manage the microbial potential in soils (inoculation of exotic vs. native species, inoculation or controlled management potential microbial stratum via aboveground vegetation, etc.) based on the level of environmental degradation. 
Anaerobic decomposition of a native and an exotic submersed macrophyte in two tropical reservoirs.	Some aquatic plants have fast metabolism and growth, even at sub-optimal conditions, and become dominant in lentic environments such as large reservoirs, altering the nutrient cycle and impairing their environmental quality. There is great need in the knowledge impact processes of invasive species in aquatic environments, among the major, those related to the decomposition. This study evaluated the anaerobic decomposition of invasive submerged macrophytes Egeria densa Planch, native, and Hydrilla verticillata (L.f.) Royle, exotic in Porto Primavera and Jupiá reservoirs, Paraná basin. We evaluated the decay of organic matter, humification degree of the leached material, electrical conductivity and pH of the decomposition process. Mathematical models were utilised to describe the decomposition patterns over time. Both species showed the same heterogeneous pattern of decay of organic matter and carbon mineralisation. The models of carbon mineralisation, compared with the experimentally obtained data presented were adequate. Both species show no significant differences in the decomposition processes. Incubations of both species presented rapid t ½ for POC mineralisation and low DOC mineralisation. 
Not a tropical, but a non the less exotic fever]	We describe a 26-year-old male patient with fever and elevated inflammatory markers of three months duration plus an initial episode of encephalitis. Since intensive search for infectious diseases gave no positive results and ANA and ANCA titers were negative, Still's disease was assumed. But as the patient developed a nodular erythema, polyarteritis nodosa (PAN) was revealed by histopathology. The case underlines, that PAN presents mostly with general symptoms. Therefore, the diagnosis is difficult. An encephalitis is a seldom manifestation of PAN. 
Seasonality in polyps of a tropical cubozoan: A latina nr mordens.	A latina nr mordens have been located in large predictable spawning aggregations near Osprey Reef in the Coral Sea eight to ten days after a full moon; however, polyps have never been located in-situ. The polyp stage contributes to the abundance of medusae through asexual reproduction and metamorphosis, and may influence the periodicity of medusae by metamorphosis of the polyp. To elucidate the relationship between medusae periodicity and polyp ecology, polyps were exposed to thermal and osmotic treatments in order to determine the theoretical environmental limits to their distribution. Maximum fecundity occurred in thermal treatments of 21 to 25ºC and the theoretical minimum thermal requirement for population stability was approximately 17ºC. Polyps were also exposed to five feeding regimes and fecundity was found to be positively correlated with feeding frequency. Thermal and osmotic variations did not induce metamorphosis in this species, however, reduced food did. The implications of asexual reproduction and cues for metamorphosis in relation to population dynamics of this species are discussed. 
De novo transcriptome assembly for the tropical grass Panicum maximum Jacq.	Guinea grass (Panicum maximum Jacq.) is a tropical African grass often used to feed beef cattle, which is an important economic activity in Brazil. Brazil is the leader in global meat exportation because of its exclusively pasture-raised bovine herds. Guinea grass also has potential uses in bioenergy production due to its elevated biomass generation through the C4 photosynthesis pathway. We generated approximately 13 Gb of data from Illumina sequencing of P. maximum leaves. Four different genotypes were sequenced, and the combined reads were assembled de novo into 38,192 unigenes and annotated; approximately 63% of the unigenes had homology to other proteins in the NCBI non-redundant protein database. Functional classification through COG (Clusters of Orthologous Groups), GO (Gene Ontology) and KEGG (Kyoto Encyclopedia of Genes and Genomes) analyses showed that the unigenes from Guinea grass leaves are involved in a wide range of biological processes and metabolic pathways, including C4 photosynthesis and lignocellulose generation, which are important for cattle grazing and bioenergy production. The most abundant transcripts were involved in carbon fixation, photosynthesis, RNA translation and heavy metal cellular homeostasis. Finally, we identified a number of potential molecular markers, including 5,035 microsatellites (SSRs) and 346,456 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs). To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to characterize the complete leaf transcriptome of P. maximum using high-throughput sequencing. The biological information provided here will aid in gene expression studies and marker-assisted selection-based breeding research in tropical grasses. 
Successional changes in functional composition contrast for dry and wet tropical forest.	We tested whether and how functional composition changes with succession in dry deciduous and wet evergreen forests of Mexico. We hypothesized that compositional changes during succession in dry forest were mainly determined by increasing water availability leading to community functional changes from conservative to acquisitive strategies, and in wet forest by decreasing light availability leading to changes from acquisitive to conservative strategies. Research was carried out in 15 dry secondary forest plots (5-63 years after abandonment) and 17 wet secondary forest plots (< 1-25 years after abandonment). Community-level functional traits were represented by community-weighted means based on 11 functional traits measured on 132 species. Successional changes in functional composition are more marked in dry forest than in wet forest and largely characterized by different traits. During dry forest succession, conservative traits related to drought tolerance and drought avoidance decreased, as predicted. Unexpectedly acquisitive leaf traits also decreased, whereas seed size and dependence on biotic dispersal increased. In wet forest succession, functional composition changed from acquisitive to conservative leaf traits, suggesting light availability as the main driver of changes. Distinct suites of traits shape functional composition changes in dry and wet forest succession, responding to different environmental filters.
Factors determining forest diversity and biomass on a tropical volcano, Mt. Rinjani, Lombok, Indonesia.	Tropical volcanoes are an important but understudied ecosystem, and the relationships between plant species diversity and compositional change and elevation may differ from mountains created by uplift, because of their younger and more homogeneous soils. We sampled vegetation over an altitudinal gradient on Mt. Rinjani, Lombok, Indonesia. We modeled alpha- (plot) and beta- (among plot) diversity (Fisher's alpha), compositional change, and biomass against elevation and selected covariates. We also examined community phylogenetic structure across the elevational gradient. We recorded 902 trees and shrubs among 92 species, and 67 species of ground-cover plants. For understorey, subcanopy and canopy plants, an increase in elevation was associated with a decline in alpha-diversity, whereas data for ground-cover plants suggested a hump-shaped pattern. Elevation was consistently the most important factor in determining alpha-diversity for all components. The alpha-diversity of ground-cover vegetation was also negatively correlated with leaf area index, which suggests low light conditions in the understorey may limit diversity at lower elevations. Beta-diversity increased with elevation for ground-cover plants and declined at higher elevations for other components of the vegetation. However, statistical power was low and we could not resolve the relative importance to beta-diversity of different factors. Multivariate GLMs of variation in community composition among plots explained 67.05%, 27.63%, 18.24%, and 19.80% of the variation (deviance) for ground-cover, understorey, subcanopy and canopy plants, respectively, and demonstrated that elevation was a consistently important factor in determining community composition. Above-ground biomass showed no significant pattern with elevation and was also not significantly associated with alpha-diversity. At lower elevations communities had a random phylogenetic structure, but from 1600 m communities were phylogenetically clustered. This suggests a greater role of environmental filtering at higher elevations, and thus provides a possible explanation for the observed decline in diversity with elevation. 
Phytoplankton growth and microzooplankton grazing in the subtropical Northeast Atlantic.	Dilution experiments were performed to estimate phytoplankton growth and microzooplankton grazing rates during two Lagrangian surveys in inner and eastern locations of the Eastern North Atlantic Subtropical Gyre province (NAST-E). Our design included two phytoplankton size fractions (0.2-5 µm and >5 µm) and five depths, allowing us to characterize differences in growth and grazing rates between size fractions and depths, as well as to estimate vertically integrated measurements. Phytoplankton growth rates were high (0.11-1.60 d(-1)), especially in the case of the large fraction. Grazing rates were also high (0.15-1.29 d(-1)), suggesting high turnover rates within the phytoplankton community. The integrated balances between phytoplankton growth and grazing losses were close to zero, although deviations were detected at several depths. Also, O2 supersaturation was observed up to 110 m depth during both Lagrangian surveys. These results add up to increased evidence indicating an autotrophic metabolic balance in oceanic subtropical gyres. 
Current analogues of future climate indicate the likely response of a sensitive montane tropical avifauna to a warming world.	Among birds, tropical montane species are likely to be among the most vulnerable to climate change, yet little is known about how climate drives their distributions, nor how to predict their likely responses to temperature increases. Correlative models of species' environmental niches have been widely used to predict changes in distribution, but direct tests of the relationship between key variables, such as temperature, and species' actual distributions are few. In the absence of historical data with which to compare observations and detect shifts, space-for-time substitutions, where warmer locations are used as analogues of future conditions, offer an opportunity to test for species' responses to climate. We collected density data for rainforest birds across elevational gradients in northern and southern subregions within the Australian Wet Tropics (AWT). Using environmental optima calculated from elevational density profiles, we detected a significant elevational difference between the two regions in ten of 26 species. More species showed a positive (19 spp.) than negative (7 spp.) displacement, with a median difference of ∼80.6 m across the species analysed that is concordant with that expected due to latitudinal temperature differences (∼75.5 m). Models of temperature gradients derived from broad-scale climate surfaces showed comparable performance to those based on in-situ measurements, suggesting the former is sufficient for modeling impacts. These findings not only confirm temperature as an important factor driving elevational distributions of these species, but also suggest species will shift upslope to track their preferred environmental conditions. Our approach uses optima calculated from elevational density profiles, offering a data-efficient alternative to distribution limits for gauging climate constraints, and is sensitive enough to detect distribution shifts in this avifauna in response to temperature changes of as little as 0.4 degrees. We foresee important applications in the urgent task of detecting and monitoring impacts of climate change on montane tropical biodiversity. 
Land use changes and GHG emissions from tropical forest conversion by oil palm plantations in Riau Province, Indonesia.	Increasing prices and demand for biofuel and cooking oil from importer countries have caused a remarkable expansion of oil palm plantations in Indonesia. In this paper, we attempt to monitor the expansion of oil palm plantations on peat land and in tropical forests. We measure the GHG emissions from the land conversion activities at provincial scale. Using Landsat images from three different periods (1990s, 2000s and 2012), we classified LULC of the Riau Province, which is the largest oil palm producing region in Indonesia. A hybrid method of integration, generated by combining automatic processing and manual analysis, yields the best results. We found that the tropical rainforest cover decreased from ∼63% in the 1990s to ∼37% in the 2000s. By 2012, the remaining tropical rainforest cover was only ∼22%. From the 1990s to the 2000s, conversion of forests and peat lands was the primary source of emissions, total CO2 emitted to the atmosphere was estimated at ∼26.6 million tCO2.y(-1), with 40.62% and 59.38% of the emissions from conversion of peat lands and forests, respectively. Between 2000 and 2012, the total CO2 emitted to the atmosphere was estimated at ∼5.2 million tCO2. y(-1), with 69.94% and 27.62% of the emissions from converted peat lands and converted forests, respectively. The results show that in the Riau Province, the oil palm industry boomed in the period from 1990 to 2000, with transformation of tropical forest and peat land as the primary source of emissions. The decrease of CO2 emissions in the period from 2000 to 2012 is possibly due to the enforcement of a moratorium on deforestation. 
Ecosystem consequences of tree monodominance for nitrogen cycling in lowland tropical forest.	Understanding how plant functional traits shape nutrient limitation and cycling on land is a major challenge in ecology. This is especially true for lowland forest ecosystems of the tropics which can be taxonomically and functionally diverse and rich in bioavailable nitrogen (N). In many tropical regions, however, diverse forests occur side-by-side with monodominant forest (one species >60% of canopy); the long-term biogeochemical consequences of tree monodominance are unclear. Particularly uncertain is whether the monodominant plant-soil system modifies nutrient balance at the ecosystem level. Here, we use chemical and stable isotope techniques to examine N cycling in old-growth Mora excelsa and diverse watershed rainforests on the island of Trinidad. Across 26 small watershed forests and 4 years, we show that Mora monodominance reduces bioavailable nitrate in the plant-soil system to exceedingly low levels which, in turn, results in small hydrologic and gaseous N losses at the watershed-level relative to adjacent N-rich diverse forests. Bioavailable N in soils and streams remained low and remarkably stable through time in Mora forests; N levels in diverse forests, on the other hand, showed high sensitivity to seasonal and inter-annual rainfall variation. Total mineral N losses from diverse forests exceeded inputs from atmospheric deposition, consistent with N saturation, while losses from Mora forests did not, suggesting N limitation. Our measures suggest that this difference cannot be explained by environmental factors but instead by low internal production and efficient retention of bioavailable N in the Mora plant-soil system. These results demonstrate ecosystem-level consequences of a tree species on the N cycle opposite to cases where trees enhance ecosystem N supply via N2 fixation and suggest that, over time, Mora monodominance may generate progressive N draw-down in the plant-soil system. 
Effect of ensiling treatment on secondary compounds and amino acid profile of tropical forage legumes, and implications for their pig feeding potential.	Smallholders in the tropics depend on local protein supplements to balance pig diets. Thus, various tropical forage legumes are a potential feeding option. Ensiling allows converting forages into a ready-to-feed-out choice, but the lactic acid fermentation may influence various (anti)nutritional components. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of sucrose (SU) and a tropical Lactobacillus plantarum strain (LAB) as ensiling treatments (control, SU, LAB, LAB + SU) on the potential nutrient availability of 10 forage legume species.
Chemical fingerprinting and phylogenetic mapping of saponin congeners from three tropical holothurian sea cucumbers.	Holothurians are sedentary marine organisms known to produce saponins (triterpene glycosides), secondary metabolites exhibiting a wide range of biological activities. In this paper, we investigated the saponin contents of semi-purified and membranolytic HPLC fractionated extracts from the body wall of three species of Holothuriidae as an attempt to examine its chemical diversity in relation to phylogenetic data. MALDI-FTICR MS and nano-HPLC-chip Q-TOF MS were used for mass profiling and isomer separation, respectively giving a unique chemical saponin fingerprint. Moreover, the methods used yield the highest number of congeners. However, saponin concentration, bioactivity and chemical diversity had no apparent relationship. MS fingerprint showed the presence of holothurinosides, which was observed for the first time in other Holothuria genera besides the basally positioned Holothuria forskali. This congener is proposed to be a primitive character that could be used for taxonomic purposes. The phylogenetic mapping also showed that the glycone part of the compound evolved from non-sulfated hexaosides to sulfated tetraosides, which have higher membranolytic activity and hydrophilicity, the two factors affecting the total ecological activity (i.e. chemical defense) of these compounds. This might be an adaptation to increase the fitness of the organism.
Impact of logging and forest conversion to oil palm plantations on soil bacterial communities in Borneo.	Tropical forests are being rapidly altered by logging and cleared for agriculture. Understanding the effects of these land use changes on soil bacteria, which constitute a large proportion of total biodiversity and perform important ecosystem functions, is a major conservation frontier. Here we studied the effects of logging history and forest conversion to oil palm plantations in Sabah, Borneo, on the soil bacterial community. We used paired-end Illumina sequencing of the 16S rRNA gene, V3 region, to compare the bacterial communities in primary, once-logged, and twice-logged forest and land converted to oil palm plantations. Bacteria were grouped into operational taxonomic units (OTUs) at the 97% similarity level, and OTU richness and local-scale α-diversity showed no difference between the various forest types and oil palm plantations. Focusing on the turnover of bacteria across space, true β-diversity was higher in oil palm plantation soil than in forest soil, whereas community dissimilarity-based metrics of β-diversity were only marginally different between habitats, suggesting that at large scales, oil palm plantation soil could have higher overall γ-diversity than forest soil, driven by a slightly more heterogeneous community across space. Clearance of primary and logged forest for oil palm plantations did, however, significantly impact the composition of soil bacterial communities, reflecting in part the loss of some forest bacteria, whereas primary and logged forests did not differ in composition. Overall, our results suggest that the soil bacteria of tropical forest are to some extent resilient or resistant to logging but that the impacts of forest conversion to oil palm plantations are more severe. 
Health situation and issues in the Seychelles in 2012]	Off the coast of Kenya, the Seychelles, home to 87,400 inhabitants mostly of African origin, have largely completed their demographic and epidemiologic transitions. Major investments in infrastructure and social services have fostered steady economic growth. Health care and education are free. The predominance of chronic non-communicable diseases and rapid aging of the population nonetheless present significant challenges for public health and the health system. Like the other small island states in the region, the Seychelles continue to be threatened by arbovirus outbreaks. Health indicators are good, but the geographic isolation, the small and aging population, and limited resources make a major challenge maintaining and sustaining an effective workforce of health professionals, a constantly evolving technical platform, and increasing amount of medications particularly in view of the increasing burden of chronic diseases.
Systolic peak detection in acceleration photoplethysmograms measured from emergency responders in tropical conditions.	Photoplethysmogram (PPG) monitoring is not only essential for critically ill patients in hospitals or at home, but also for those undergoing exercise testing. However, processing PPG signals measured after exercise is challenging, especially if the environment is hot and humid. In this paper, we propose a novel algorithm that can detect systolic peaks under challenging conditions, as in the case of emergency responders in tropical conditions. Accurate systolic-peak detection is an important first step for the analysis of heart rate variability. Algorithms based on local maxima-minima, first-derivative, and slope sum are evaluated, and a new algorithm is introduced to improve the detection rate. With 40 healthy subjects, the new algorithm demonstrates the highest overall detection accuracy (99.84% sensitivity, 99.89% positive predictivity). Existing algorithms, such as Billauer's, Li's and Zong's, have comparable although lower accuracy. However, the proposed algorithm presents an advantage for real-time applications by avoiding human intervention in threshold determination. For best performance, we show that a combination of two event-related moving averages with an offset threshold has an advantage in detecting systolic peaks, even in heat-stressed PPG signals. 
Long-term environmental correlates of invasion by Lantana camara (Verbenaceae) in a seasonally dry tropical forest.	Invasive species, local plant communities and invaded ecosystems change over space and time. Quantifying this change may lead to a better understanding of the ecology and the effective management of invasive species. We used data on density of the highly invasive shrub Lantana camara (lantana) for the period 1990-2008 from a 50 ha permanent plot in a seasonally dry tropical forest of Mudumalai in southern India. We used a cumulative link mixed-effects regression approach to model the transition of lantana from one qualitative density state to another as a function of biotic factors such as indicators of competition from local species (lantana itself, perennial grasses, invasive Chromolaena odorata, the native shrub Helicteres isora and basal area of native trees) and abiotic factors such as fire frequency, inter-annual variability of rainfall and relative soil moisture. The density of lantana increased substantially during the study period. Lantana density was negatively associated with the density of H. isora, positively associated with basal area of native trees, but not affected by the presence of grasses or other invasive species. In the absence of fire, lantana density increased with increasing rainfall. When fires occurred, transitions to higher densities occurred at low rainfall values. In drier regions, lantana changed from low to high density as rainfall increased while in wetter regions of the plot, lantana persisted in the dense category irrespective of rainfall. Lantana seems to effectively utilize resources distributed in space and time to its advantage, thus outcompeting local species and maintaining a population that is not yet self-limiting. High-risk areas and years could potentially be identified based on inferences from this study for facilitating management of lantana in tropical dry forests. 
Characteristics of soil microbial biomass and community composition in three types of plantations in southern subtropical area of China]	By using fumigation-extraction method and phospholipid fatty acids (PLFAs) analysis, this paper studied the characteristics of soil microbial biomass and community composition in the Erythrophleum fordii, Castanopsis hystrix, and Pinus massoniana plantations in south subtropical China. The soil microbial biomass, total PLFAs, bacterial PLFAs, and fungal PLFAs in the plantations were significantly affected by the plantation type and season, and the soil microbial biomass, total PLFAs, and individual PLFA signatures were higher in dry season than in rainy season. The C. hystrix plantation had the highest soil microbial biomass carbon and total PLFAs, while the E. fordii plantation had the highest soil microbial biomass nitrogen. There was a significant positive correlation between the soil pH and arbuscular mycorrhizal fungal (AMF) PLFA (16:1omega5c). The soil total PLFAs, gram-positive bacterial PLFAs, saprophytic fungal PLFA (18:2omega6,9c), and the ratio of gram-positive to gram-negative bacterial PLFAs were significantly positively correlated with soil organic carbon, total nitrogen, and total phosphorus, suggesting that the soil organic carbon, total nitrogen, and total phosphorus contents were the most important nutrient factors affecting the numbers and types of the soil microorganisms. In addition, the ectomycorrhizae fungal PLFA (18:1omega9c) and AMF PLFA were significantly correlated with the soil C/N ratio.
Palaeoclimate reconstructions reveal a strong link between El Niño-Southern Oscillation and Tropical Pacific mean state.	The El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO) is one of the most important components of the global climate system, but its potential response to an anthropogenic increase in atmospheric CO2 remains largely unknown. One of the major limitations in ENSO prediction is our poor understanding of the relationship between ENSO variability and long-term changes in Tropical Pacific oceanography. Here we investigate this relationship using palaeorecords derived from the geochemistry of planktonic foraminifera. Our results indicate a strong negative correlation between ENSO variability and zonal gradient of sea-surface temperatures across the Tropical Pacific during the last 22 ky. This strong correlation implies a mechanistic link that tightly couples zonal sea-surface temperature gradient and ENSO variability during large climate changes and provides a unique insight into potential ENSO evolution in the future by suggesting enhanced ENSO variability under a global warming scenario.
Adult carrion arthropod community in a tropical rainforest of Malaysia: analysis on three common forensic entomology animal models.	Decomposing carrion provides a temporary microhabitat and food source for a distinct community of organisms. Arthropods constitute a major part of this community and can be utilized to estimate the postmortem interval (PMI) of cadavers during criminal investigations. However, in Malaysia, knowledge of carrion arthropod assemblages and their succession is superficial. Therefore, a study on three types of forensic entomology animal model was conducted from 27 September 2010 to 28 October 2010 in a tropical rainforest at National University of Malaysia, Bangi, Selangor, Malaysia. Over one month collections of arthropods were made on nine animal carcasses: three laboratory rats (Rattus norvegicus, mean weight: 0.508 ± 0.027 kg), three rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus, mean weight: 2.538 ± 0.109 kg) and three long tailed macaque (Macaca fascicularis, mean weight: 5.750 ± 0.551 kg). A total of 31,433 arthropods belonging to eight orders and twenty-eight families were collected from all carcasses. Among 2924 of adults flies collected, approximately 19% were calliphorids with Chrysomya megacephala (Fabricius, 1794) being the most abundant. Arthropod taxon richness was lower on rat carcasses compared to that of rabbit and monkey carcasses, and this was more apparent during the first week of decomposition. However, there were no significant differences in Shannon-Weiner index (H'), Simpson dominance index (C) and Pielou's Evenness index (J) between different animal model. The arthropod assemblages associated to animal model were different significantly (p<0.05) while decomposition stage was a significant factor influencing insect assemblages (p<0.05). Analysis on the arthropods succession indicated that some taxa have a clear visitation period while the others, particularly Coleoptera, did not show a clear successional pattern thus require futher insect succession study. Although human bodies were not possible for the succession study, most of the arthropods collected are necrophagous, and will also possibly colonize human cadaver, and potentially be useful in assisting in estimates of PMI in future forensic cases in Malaysia.
Juvenile resilience and adult longevity explain residual populations of the Andean wax palm Ceroxylon quindiuense after deforestation.	Wax palms are an important element of the cloud forests in the tropical Andes. Despite heavy deforestation, the density of adults seems to be similar in deforested pastures as in forests. We aimed to infer the mechanisms responsible for this apparent resilience in pastures and we tested two hypotheses to explain it: 1) adult palms survived in pastures because they were spared from logging, and 2) adults occurred in pastures through the resilience of large juvenile rosettes, which survived through subterranean meristems and later developed into adults. For this purpose, we characterized the demographic structure of C. quindiuense in a total of 122 plots of 400 m(2) in forests and pastures at two sites with contrasted land use histories in Colombia and Peru. Additionally, we implemented growth models that allowed us to estimate the age of individuals at four sites. These data were combined with information collected from local land managers in order to complete our knowledge on the land use history at each site. At two sites, the presence of old individuals up to 169 years and a wide age range evidenced that, at least, a portion of current adults in pastures were spared from logging at the time of deforestation. However, at the two other sites, the absence of older adults in pastures and the narrow age range of the populations indicated that individuals came exclusively from rosette resilience. These interpretations were consistent with the land use history of sites. In consequence, the combination of the two hypotheses (spared individuals and rosette resilience) explained patterns of C. quindiuense in pastures on a regional scale. Regeneration through subterranean meristems in palms is an important, yet overlooked mechanism of resilience, which occurs in a number of palm species and deserves being integrated in the conceptual framework of disturbance ecology. 
Temperature and rainfall strongly drive temporal growth variation in Asian tropical forest trees.	Climate change effects on growth rates of tropical trees may lead to alterations in carbon cycling of carbon-rich tropical forests. However, climate sensitivity of broad-leaved lowland tropical trees is poorly understood. Dendrochronology (tree-ring analysis) provides a powerful tool to study the relationship between tropical tree growth and annual climate variability. We aimed to establish climate-growth relationships for five annual-ring forming tree species, using ring-width data from 459 canopy and understory trees from a seasonal tropical forest in western Thailand. Based on 183/459 trees, chronologies with total lengths between 29 and 62 years were produced for four out of five species. Bootstrapped correlation analysis revealed that climate-growth responses were similar among these four species. Growth was significantly negatively correlated with current-year maximum and minimum temperatures, and positively correlated with dry-season precipitation levels. Negative correlations between growth and temperature may be attributed to a positive relationship between temperature and autotrophic respiration rates. The positive relationship between growth and dry-season precipitation levels likely reflects the strong water demand during leaf flush. Mixed-effect models yielded results that were consistent across species: a negative effect of current wet-season maximum temperatures on growth, but also additive positive effects of, for example, prior dry-season maximum temperatures. Our analyses showed that annual growth variability in tropical trees is determined by a combination of both temperature and precipitation variability. With rising temperature, the predominantly negative relationship between temperature and growth may imply decreasing growth rates of tropical trees as a result of global warming.
Water stratification affects the microeukaryotic community in a subtropical deep reservoir.	Producers, consumers, and decomposers are the three key functional groups that form the basis of all ecosystems. But, little is known about how these functional groups coexist with each other in aquatic environments, particularly in subtropical reservoirs. In this study, we describe the nature of microeukaryotic communities in a subtropical deep reservoir during the strongly stratified period. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis gel band sequencing, pyrosequencing, and light microscopy were used together to facilitate an in-depth investigation of the community structure of phytoplankton, zooplankton, and fungi. Our results showed that thermal and oxygen stratification shaped the composition of the phytoplankton, zooplankton, and fungi populations in the reservoir. Stratification was evident among ecological functional groups in autumn: producers and consumers were overwhelmingly dominant in the epilimnion characterized by high temperatures and oxygen levels, whereas decomposers were inclined to inhabit the hypolimnion. These results contribute to our understanding of the relationship of ecosystem functional groups in the man-made aquatic systems and have important practical implications for reservoir management. Results suggest that the strategies for the control of eutrophication and harmful algal bloom prevention should focus on a fuller understanding of the consequences of both thermal stratification and vertical distribution of microplankton. 
Cryptic adaptive radiation in tropical forest trees in New Caledonia.	The causes of the species richness of tropical trees are poorly understood, in particular the roles of ecological factors such as soil composition. The nickel(Ni)-hyperaccumulating tree genus Geissois (Cunoniaceae) from the South-west Pacific was chosen as a model of diversification on different substrates. Here, we investigated the leaf element compositions, spatial distributions and phylogeny of all species of Geissois occurring on New Caledonia. We found that New Caledonian Geissois descended from a single colonist and diversified relatively quickly into 13 species. Species on ultramafic and nonultramafic substrates showed contrasting patterns of leaf element composition and range overlap. Those on nonultramafic substrates were largely sympatric but had distinct leaf element compositions. By contrast, species on ultramafic substrates showed similar leaf element composition, but occurred in many cases exclusively in allopatry. Further, earlier work showed that at least three out of these seven species use different molecules to bind Ni. Geissois qualifies as a cryptic adaptive radiation, and may be the first such example in a lineage of tropical forest trees. Variation in biochemical strategies for coping with both typical and adverse soil conditions may help to explain the diversification and coexistence of tropical forest trees on similar soil types. 
Macrobenthos response to sewage pollution in a tropical inshore area.	Organic sewage pollution is the major stressor that affects benthic communities in the coastal waters. In the present study involving a once-off sampling (July-August 2003) of a sewage treatment plant (STP) outfall and areas 6 km farther into the sea, we tried to estimate the severity of organic pollution on marine macrobenthos over a pollution gradient in the inshore waters (station depths, 5-30 m) off a heavily urbanized tropical city, on the east coast of India. Multivariate ordination analyses revealed two different groups of faunal assemblages. Group I is associated with sites impacted by the sewage outfall and group II with the locations 3-6 km away in the open sea. Polychaetes and amphipods were the predominant fauna with significant taxonomic differences between the assemblages. Despite the homogeneity in sediment texture, the two-fold increase in sediment organic matter near the sewage outfall area supported r-strategists, while group II locations favoured K-strategists. Approximation through benthic opportunistic polychaetes amphipods (BOPA) index and information on the key taxa responsible for the observed assemblage patterns corroborated these findings. Thus, the present findings revealed how organic sewage pollution influences benthic diversity in coastal waters by supporting communities of opportunistic characteristics. We advocate inclusion of community traits and compatible analytical tools (statistical approaches) in studies of similar nature so that the observations could be compared and broad remedial measures could be evolved.
Divergent positive selection in rhodopsin from lake and riverine cichlid fishes.	Studies of cichlid evolution have highlighted the importance of visual pigment genes in the spectacular radiation of the African rift lake cichlids. Recent work, however, has also provided strong evidence for adaptive diversification of riverine cichlids in the Neotropics, which inhabit environments of markedly different spectral properties from the African rift lakes. These ecological and/or biogeographic differences may have imposed divergent selective pressures on the evolution of the cichlid visual system. To test these hypotheses, we investigated the molecular evolution of the dim-light visual pigment, rhodopsin. We sequenced rhodopsin from Neotropical and African riverine cichlids and combined these data with published sequences from African cichlids. We found significant evidence for positive selection using random sites codon models in all cichlid groups, with the highest levels in African lake cichlids. Tests using branch-site and clade models that partitioned the data along ecological (lake, river) and/or biogeographic (African, Neotropical) boundaries found significant evidence of divergent selective pressures among cichlid groups. However, statistical comparisons among these models suggest that ecological, rather than biogeographic, factors may be responsible for divergent selective pressures that have shaped the evolution of the visual system in cichlids. We found that branch-site models did not perform as well as clade models for our data set, in which there was evidence for positive selection in the background. One of our most intriguing results is that the amino acid sites found to be under positive selection in Neotropical and African lake cichlids were largely nonoverlapping, despite falling into the same three functional categories: spectral tuning, retinal uptake/release, and rhodopsin dimerization. Taken together, these results would imply divergent selection across cichlid clades, but targeting similar functions. This study highlights the importance of molecular investigations of ecologically important groups and the flexibility of clade models in explicitly testing ecological hypotheses. 
Evaluation of pyrene sorption-desorption on tropical soils.	Sorption-desorption processes control soil-pollutant interactions. These processes determine the extent of pyrene transport in soils. Understanding sorption characteristics of pyrene is necessary in ascertaining its fate in soil. Laboratory batch experiments were conducted to study the sorptions-desorption of pyrene on eight soils from varying tropical agro-ecological zones (AEZs). The results showed that pyrene sorptions equilibria were attained within 720 min. Solution pH had a reciprocal effect on pyrene sorptions. Sorption was exothermic and increased with pyrene concentration in solution. The quantities of pyrene sorbed by each soil as well as the hysteresis were proportional to the percentage organic matter, and to some degree, the clay mineralogy. Sorption isotherms showed distributed reactivity involving several linear and non-linear isotherms. The present investigation showed that pyrene is likely to be more available to biota and reach the aquifer faster in low organic matter soils than those with relatively higher organic matter and more so in warmer climes. 
Amazonian functional diversity from forest canopy chemical assembly.	Patterns of tropical forest functional diversity express processes of ecological assembly at multiple geographic scales and aid in predicting ecological responses to environmental change. Tree canopy chemistry underpins forest functional diversity, but the interactive role of phylogeny and environment in determining the chemical traits of tropical trees is poorly known. Collecting and analyzing foliage in 2,420 canopy tree species across 19 forests in the western Amazon, we discovered (i) systematic, community-scale shifts in average canopy chemical traits along gradients of elevation and soil fertility; (ii) strong phylogenetic partitioning of structural and defense chemicals within communities independent of variation in environmental conditions; and (iii) strong environmental control on foliar phosphorus and calcium, the two rock-derived elements limiting CO2 uptake in tropical forests. These findings indicate that the chemical diversity of western Amazonian forests occurs in a regionally nested mosaic driven by long-term chemical trait adjustment of communities to large-scale environmental filters, particularly soils and climate, and is supported by phylogenetic divergence of traits essential to foliar survival under varying environmental conditions. Geographically nested patterns of forest canopy chemical traits will play a role in determining the response and functional rearrangement of western Amazonian ecosystems to changing land use and climate. 
Effect of the type of farrowing room on the welfare and productive performance of lactating sows and of piglets during tropical winter.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the behavior and performance of sows and piglets kept in different types of farrowing rooms: conventional farrowing room with jugglers and cages (CFR), CFR with a heated floor for the piglets alongside the sows (CFR+HF) and semi-outdoor farrowing room without a cage or heating floor but with access to a fenced field (SFR) during the tropical winter. Twenty-seven multiparous sows were allocated in three treatments and nine repetitions during 21 days. The relative humidity was higher at CFR and CFR+HF. The temperature of thigh and chest in contact with the floor and the neck were higher (P<0.01) in conventional systems. Sows maintained in the CFR spent (P<0.01) more time feeding and drinking. The heating floor increased (P<0.01) the nursing behavior but did not affect (P>0.09) the sows' and piglets' performances. SFR decreased the backfat thickness (P=0.03) and lactation efficiency, but did not affect milk production (P>0.12) or piglet performance (P>0.09). It is concluded that during tropical winter, conventional farrowing systems ensure better piglet performance compared to SFR but this last seems to improve the behavior of sows. The heating floor favors nursing and does not affect the welfare of sows.
The ameliorative effect of ascorbic acid on the oxidative status, live weight and recovery rate in road transport stressed goats in a hot humid tropical environment.	The ameliorative effect of ascorbic acid (AA) on live weight following transportation is vital in animal husbandry. This study investigated the influence of AA on live weight, rectal temperature (rt), and oxidative status of transport stressed goats in a hot humid tropical environment. Twenty-four goats were divided into four groups, A, B, C and D of six animals each. Group A were administered AA 100 mg/kg intramuscularly 30 min prior to 3.5 h transportation. Group B was administered AA following transportation. Group C were transported but not administered AA as positive controls while group D were not transported but were administered normal saline as negative controls. Live weight, rt and blood samples were collected before, immediately post-transport (pt), 24 h, 3 days, 7 days and 10 days pt. Plasma was used for malondialdehyde (MDA) analysis while hemolysates were used for superoxide dismutase (SOD) analysis. There was minimal live weight loss in group A compared to groups B and C. Group A recorded reduced MDA activities and increased SOD activities compared to groups B and C which recorded significantly high MDA activities. This study revealed that AA administration ameliorated the stress responses induced by transportation in animals in hot humid tropical environments. The administration of AA to goats prior to transportation could ameliorate stress and enhance productivity.
Recent evidence of hantavirus circulation in the American tropic.	Hantaan virus was discovered in Korea during the 1970s while other similar viruses were later reported in Asia and Europe. There was no information about hantavirus human infection in the Americas until 1993 when an outbreak was described in the United States. This event promoted new studies to find hantaviruses in the Americas. At first, many studies were conducted in Brazil, Argentina, Chile, Uruguay and Paraguay, while other Latin American countries began to report the presence of these agents towards the end of the 20th century. More than 30 hantaviruses have been reported in the Western Hemisphere with more frequent cases registered in the southern cone (Argentina, Chile, Uruguay, Paraguay, Bolivia and Brazil). However there was an important outbreak in 2000 in Panama and some rare events have been described in Peru, Venezuela and French Guiana. Since hantaviruses have only recently emerged as a potential threat in the tropical zones of the Americas, this review compiles recent hantavirus reports in Central America, the Caribbean islands and the northern region of South America. These studies have generated the discovery of new hantaviruses and could help to anticipate the presentation of possible future outbreaks in the region. 
Consistency in bird use of tree cover across tropical agricultural landscapes.	In tropical regions where forests have been replaced by agriculture, the future of biodiversity is increasingly dependent on the presence of remnant forest patches and on-farm tree cover within agricultural landscapes. While there is growing evidence of the importance of tree cover within agricultural landscapes, most studies have been conducted in a single landscape, making it difficult to ascertain whether the conservation value of different types of tree cover can be generalized across landscapes. To explore whether use of different forms of tree cover by birds is consistent across landscapes, we compared the number of individuals, species richness, and diversity of birds associated with different forms of tree cover in four agricultural landscapes in Central America, using a standardized methodology and sampling effort. In each landscape, we compared bird assemblages in six tree cover types (secondary forests, riparian forests, forest fallows, live fences, pastures with high tree cover, and pastures with low tree cover). We observed a total of 10 723 birds of 283 species, with 83-196 species per landscape. The specific patterns of bird species richness, number of individuals, and diversity associated with tree cover types varied across the four landscapes, but these variables were consistently higher in the forest forms of tree cover (riparian forests, secondary forests, and forest fallows) than in non-forest habitats. In addition, forest forms of tree cover had distinct species composition from non-forest forms in all landscapes. There was also consistency in the use of different types of tree cover by forest birds across the four landscapes, with higher richness and number of individuals of forest birds in forested than non-forested forms of tree cover, and more forest bird species in pastures with high tree cover than in pastures with low tree cover. Our findings indicate that riparian and secondary forests are consistently of higher value for bird conservation (particularly for forest species) than live fences and pastures with tree cover. Consequently, agricultural and land use policies that promote the retention of secondary and riparian forests and increase tree cover within pastures would greatly benefit bird conservation, regardless of the landscape in which they are applied.
Field hydration state varies among tropical frog species with different habitat use.	We have previously shown that ecological habit (e.g., arboreal, terrestrial, amphibious) correlates with thermoregulatory behaviors and water balance physiology among species of hylid frogs in northern Australia. We hypothesized that these frogs would be different with respect to their field hydration states because of the challenges associated with the different ecological habits. There are very few data on the hydration levels that frogs maintain in the field, and the existing data are from disparate species and locations and do not relate hydration state to habit or changes in seasonal water availability. We measured the hydration state of 15 species of frogs from tropical northern Australia to determine the influences of ecological habit and season on the hydration state that these frogs maintain. As predicted, frogs were significantly less hydrated in the dry season than they were in the wet season and showed significantly higher variation among individuals, suggesting that maintaining hydration is more challenging in the dry season. In the wet season, terrestrial species were significantly less hydrated than arboreal or amphibious species. During the dry season, amphibious species that sought refuge in cracking mud after the pond dried were significantly less hydrated than terrestrial or arboreal species. These data suggest that hydration behaviors and voluntary tolerance of dehydration vary with habitat use, even within closely related species in the same family or genus. Terrestrial and arboreal species might be expected to be the most vulnerable to changes in water availability, because they are somewhat removed from water sources, but the physiological characteristics of arboreal frogs that result in significant cutaneous resistance to water loss allow them to reduce the effects of their dehydrating microenvironment.
Linkages between mitochondrial lipids and life history in temperate and tropical birds.	Temperate birds tend to have a fast pace of life and short life spans with high reproductive output, whereas tropical birds tend to have a slower pace of life, invest fewer resources in reproduction, and have higher adult survival rates. How these differences in life history at the organismal level are rooted in differences at the cellular level is a major focus of current research. Here, we cultured fibroblasts from phylogenetically paired tropical and temperate species, isolated mitochondria from each, and compared their mitochondrial membrane lipids. We also correlated the amounts of these lipids with an important life history parameter, clutch size. We found that tropical birds tended to have less mitochondrial lipid per cell, especially less cardiolipin per cell, suggesting that cells from tropical birds have fewer mitochondria or less inner mitochondrial membrane per cell. We also found that the mitochondria of tropical birds and the species with the smallest clutch sizes had higher amounts of plasmalogens, a lipid that could serve as an antioxidant. Overall, our findings are consistent with the idea that there are underlying molecular and cellular physiological traits that could account for the differences in whole-animal physiology between animals with different life histories.
Resilience to disturbance despite limited dispersal and self-recruitment in tropical barrel sponges: implications for conservation and management.	While estimates of connectivity are important for effective management, few such estimates are available for reef invertebrates other than for corals. Barrel sponges are one of the largest and most conspicuous members of the coral reef fauna across the Indo-Pacific and given their large size, longevity and ability to process large volumes of water, they have a major role in reef functioning. Here we used a panel of microsatellite markers to characterise the genetic structure of two barrel sponge species, Xestospongia testudinaria and a currently undescribed Xestospongia species. We sampled across seven populations in the Wakatobi Marine National Park, SE Sulawesi (Indonesia) spanning a spatial scale of approximately 2 to 70 km, and present the first estimates of demographic connectivity for coral reef sponges. Genetic analyses showed high levels of genetic differentiation between all populations for both species, but contrasting patterns of genetic structuring for the two species. Autocorrelation analyses showed the likely dispersal distances of both species to be in the order of 60 and 140 m for Xestopongia sp. and Xestospongia testudinaria, respectively, which was supported by assignment tests that showed high levels of self-recruitment (>80%). We also found consistently high inbreeding coefficients across all populations for both species. Our study highlights the potential susceptibility of barrel sponges to environmental perturbations because they are generally long-lived, slow growing, have small population sizes and are likely to be reliant on self-recruitment. Surprisingly, despite these features we actually found the highest abundance of both barrel sponge species (although they were generally smaller) at a site that has been severely impacted by humans over the last fifty years. This suggests that barrel sponges exhibit environmental adaptation to declining environmental quality and has important implications for the management and conservation of these important reef species. 
Hidden potential of tropical fruit waste components as a useful source of remedy for obesity.	The array of comorbidities that comes with obesity and the propelling surge of this disease globally today make the urgent need for treatment vital. Although promoting a healthy physical regimen and controlled diet to affected patients are the main bulk of present treatment, prescriptions of weight-loss medications have also been introduced to complement this treatment. However, the use of synthetic medications may produce adverse side effects and consequently affect the patient's quality of life. In view of these problems, the use of natural sources as alternative remedies has recently become very popular. Tropical fruit "waste components", namely, the seed, flower, leaf, peel, and part of the fruit, which are often discarded after consumption, have recently been studied and showed evidence suggesting their potential as promising future alternative sources of remedy. The high amounts of phytochemicals present in these components were believed to be responsible for the antiobesity effect observed experimentally. This review aims to introduce some of the recently discussed tropical fruit waste components that have been discovered to possess antiobesity effects. The major bioactive compounds of the respective fruit components identified and deduced to be responsible for the overall bioactivity will be evaluated. Following this, the subsequent need for the development of an effective processing or recycling technique required to effectively tap the maximum potential of these fruit parts will also be addressed. 
Mid-latitude interhemispheric hydrologic seesaw over the past 550,000 years.	An interhemispheric hydrologic seesaw--in which latitudinal migrations of the Intertropical Convergence Zone (ITCZ) produce simultaneous wetting (increased precipitation) in one hemisphere and drying in the other--has been discovered in some tropical and subtropical regions. For instance, Chinese and Brazilian subtropical speleothem (cave formations such as stalactites and stalagmites) records show opposite trends in time series of oxygen isotopes (a proxy for precipitation variability) at millennial to orbital timescales, suggesting that hydrologic cycles were antiphased in the northerly versus southerly subtropics. This tropical to subtropical hydrologic phenomenon is likely to be an initial and important climatic response to orbital forcing. The impacts of such an interhemispheric hydrologic seesaw on higher-latitude regions and the global climate system, however, are unknown. Here we show that the antiphasing seen in the tropical records is also present in both hemispheres of the mid-latitude western Pacific Ocean. Our results are based on a new 550,000-year record of the growth frequency of speleothems from the Korean peninsula, which we compare to Southern Hemisphere equivalents. The Korean data are discontinuous and derived from 24 separate speleothems, but still allow the identification of periods of peak speleothem growth and, thus, precipitation. The clear hemispheric antiphasing indicates that the sphere of influence of the interhemispheric hydrologic seesaw over the past 550,000 years extended at least to the mid-latitudes, such as northeast Asia, and that orbital-timescale ITCZ shifts can have serious effects on temperate climate systems. Furthermore, our result implies that insolation-driven ITCZ dynamics may provoke water vapour and vegetation feedbacks in northern mid-latitude regions and could have regulated global climate conditions throughout the late Quaternary ice age cycles.
Trait-mediated assembly processes predict successional changes in community diversity of tropical forests.	Interspecific differences in relative fitness can cause local dominance by a single species. However, stabilizing interspecific niche differences can promote local diversity. Understanding these mechanisms requires that we simultaneously quantify their effects on demography and link these effects to community dynamics. Successional forests are ideal systems for testing assembly theory because they exhibit rapid community assembly. Here, we leverage functional trait and long-term demographic data to build spatially explicit models of successional community dynamics of lowland rainforests in Costa Rica. First, we ask what the effects and relative importance of four trait-mediated community assembly processes are on tree survival, a major component of fitness. We model trait correlations with relative fitness differences that are both density-independent and -dependent in addition to trait correlations with stabilizing niche differences. Second, we ask how the relative importance of these trait-mediated processes relates to successional changes in functional diversity. Tree dynamics were more strongly influenced by trait-related interspecific variation in average survival than trait-related responses to neighbors, with wood specific gravity (WSG) positively correlated with greater survival. Our findings also suggest that competition was mediated by stabilizing niche differences associated with specific leaf area (SLA) and leaf dry matter content (LDMC). These drivers of individual-level survival were reflected in successional shifts to higher SLA and LDMC diversity but lower WSG diversity. Our study makes significant advances to identifying the links between individual tree performance, species functional traits, and mechanisms of tropical forest succession. 
Mortality of inshore marine mammals in eastern Australia is predicted by freshwater discharge and air temperature.	Understanding environmental and climatic drivers of natural mortality of marine mammals is critical for managing populations effectively and for predicting responses to climate change. Here we use a 17-year dataset to demonstrate a clear relationship between environmental forcing and natural mortality of inshore marine mammals across a subtropical-tropical coastline spanning a latitudinal gradient of 13° (>2000 km of coastline). Peak mortality of inshore dolphins and dugongs followed sustained periods of elevated freshwater discharge (9 months) and low air temperature (3 months). At a regional scale, these results translated into a strong relationship between annual mortality and an index of El Niño-Southern Oscillation. The number of cyclones crossing the coastline had a comparatively weak effect on inshore marine mammal mortality, and only in the tropics. Natural mortality of offshore/migratory cetaceans was not predicted by freshwater discharge, but was related to lagged air temperature. These results represent the first quantitative link between environmental forcing and marine mammal mortality in the tropics, and form the basis of a predictive tool for managers to prepare responses to periods of elevated marine mammal mortality. 
The lethal fungus Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis is present in lowland tropical forests of far eastern Panamá.	The fungal disease chytridiomycosis, caused by Batrachochytrium dendrobatidis (Bd), is one of the main causes of amphibian population declines and extinctions all over the world. In the Neotropics, this fungal disease has caused catastrophic declines in the highlands as it has spread throughout Central America down to Panamá. In this study, we determined the prevalence and intensity of Bd infection in three species of frogs in one highland and four lowland tropical forests, including two lowland regions in eastern Panamá in which the pathogen had not been detected previously. Bd was present in all the sites sampled with a prevalence ranging from 15-34%, similar to other Neotropical lowland sites. The intensity of Bd infection on individual frogs was low, ranging from average values of 0.11-24 zoospore equivalents per site. Our work indicates that Bd is present in anuran communities in lowland Panamá, including the Darién province, and that the intensity of the infection may vary among species from different habitats and with different life histories. The population-level consequences of Bd infection in amphibian communities from the lowlands remain to be determined. Detailed studies of amphibian species from the lowlands will be essential to determine the reason why these species are persisting despite the presence of the pathogen. 
Different relationships between temporal phylogenetic turnover and phylogenetic similarity and in two forests were detected by a new null model.	Ecologists have been monitoring community dynamics with the purpose of understanding the rates and causes of community change. However, there is a lack of monitoring of community dynamics from the perspective of phylogeny.
Rickettsia spp. in seabird ticks from western Indian Ocean islands, 2011-2012.	We found a diversity of Rickettsia spp. in seabird ticks from 6 tropical islands. The bacteria showed strong host specificity and sequence similarity with strains in other regions. Seabird ticks may be key reservoirs for pathogenic Rickettsia spp., and bird hosts may have a role in dispersing ticks and tick-associated infectious agents over large distances. 
Designing mixed species tree plantations for the tropics: balancing ecological attributes of species with landholder preferences in the Philippines.	A mixed species reforestation program known as the Rainforestation Farming system was undertaken in the Philippines to develop forms of farm forestry more suitable for smallholders than the simple monocultural plantations commonly used then. In this study, we describe the subsequent changes in stand structure and floristic composition of these plantations in order to learn from the experience and develop improved prescriptions for reforestation systems likely to be attractive to smallholders. We investigated stands aged from 6 to 11 years old on three successive occasions over a 6 year period. We found the number of species originally present in the plots as trees >5 cm dbh decreased from an initial total of 76 species to 65 species at the end of study period. But, at the same time, some new species reached the size class threshold and were recruited into the canopy layer. There was a substantial decline in tree density from an estimated stocking of about 5000 trees per ha at the time of planting to 1380 trees per ha at the time of the first measurement; the density declined by a further 4.9% per year. Changes in composition and stand structure were indicated by a marked shift in the Importance Value Index of species. Over six years, shade-intolerant species became less important and the native shade-tolerant species (often Dipterocarps) increased in importance. Based on how the Rainforestation Farming plantations developed in these early years, we suggest that mixed-species plantations elsewhere in the humid tropics should be around 1000 trees per ha or less, that the proportion of fast growing (and hence early maturing) trees should be about 30-40% of this initial density and that any fruit tree component should only be planted on the plantation margin where more light and space are available for crowns to develop. 
Geographical polymorphism of amylase in Drosophila ananassae and its relatives.	Strains of Drosophila ananassae from various places in the Tropics were investigated for their electrophoretical amylase pattern. Eleven isoamylases were found in adult flies. African populations were much more polymorphic than those from the Far East, and showed multibanded phenotypes, suggesting a multiplication of the Amy structural gene, with at least four copies per haploid genome in certain populations. Nine other species of the D. ananassae subgroup had weak amylase activity and only one or two variants were found in each species. D. monieri and D. varians are closely related to D. ananassae and showed a single band, similar to the isoamylase 3 of D. ananassae, which suggests that this might be an ancestral allele.
Climate change and the distribution of neotropical red-bellied toads (Melanophryniscus, Anura, Amphibia): how to prioritize species and populations?	We used species distribution modeling to investigate the potential effects of climate change on 24 species of Neotropical anurans of the genus Melanophryniscus. These toads are small, have limited mobility, and a high percentage are endangered or present restricted geographical distributions. We looked at the changes in the size of suitable climatic regions and in the numbers of known occurrence sites within the distribution limits of all species. We used the MaxEnt algorithm to project current and future suitable climatic areas (a consensus of IPCC scenarios A2a and B2a for 2020 and 2080) for each species. 40% of the species may lose over 50% of their potential distribution area by 2080, whereas 28% of species may lose less than 10%. Four species had over 40% of the currently known occurrence sites outside the predicted 2080 areas. The effect of climate change (decrease in climatic suitable areas) did not differ according to the present distribution area, major habitat type or phylogenetic group of the studied species. We used the estimated decrease in specific suitable climatic range to set a conservation priority rank for Melanophryniscus species. Four species were set to high conservation priority: M. montevidensis, (100% of its original suitable range and all known occurrence points potentially lost by 2080), M. sp.2, M. cambaraensis, and M. tumifrons. Three species (M. spectabilis, M. stelzneri, and M. sp.3) were set between high to intermediate priority (more than 60% decrease in area predicted by 2080); nine species were ranked as intermediate priority, while eight species were ranked as low conservation priority. We suggest that monitoring and conservation actions should be focused primarily on those species and populations that are likely to lose the largest area of suitable climate and the largest number of known populations in the short-term. 
Evaluation of groundwater recharge estimates in a partially metamorphosed sedimentary basin in a tropical environment: application of natural tracers.	This study tests the representativeness of groundwater recharge estimates through the chloride mass balance (CMB) method in a tropical environment. The representativeness of recharge estimates using this methodology is tested using evaporation estimates from isotope data, the general spatial distribution of the potential field, and the topographical variations in the area. This study suggests that annual groundwater recharge rates in the area ranges between 0.9% and 21% of annual precipitation. These estimates are consistent with evaporation rates computed from stable isotope data of groundwater and surface water in the Voltaian Basin. Moreover, estimates of groundwater recharge through numerical model calibration in other parts of the terrain appear to be consistent with the current data in this study. A spatial distribution of groundwater recharge in the area based on the estimated data takes a pattern akin to the spatial pattern of distribution of the hydraulic head, the local topography, and geology of the terrain. This suggests that the estimates at least qualitatively predicts the local recharge and discharge locations in the terrain. 
Control of morbidity due to Schistosoma haematobium on Pemba Island: programme organization and management.	A programme to control urinary schistosomiasis was initiated on Pemba island in January 1986 with the objectives of eliminating morbidity due to S. haematobium by utilizing a primary health care approach of strengthening the existing health care delivery system and creating a sound basis for future control of other parasitic and communicable diseases. The plan of action included training of rural health assistants to undertaken an intervention phase targeted to schools for selective population chemotherapy surveys at six-month intervals during the first two years, using indirect diagnostic techniques (observation of gross haematuria and detection of microscopic haematuria by chemical reagent strips) to identify individuals for treatment with praziquantel at a dose of 40 mg/kg body weight. The evaluation of the indirect techniques indicated that both sensitivity and specificity of the chemical reagent strips to detect infection were greater than 90%. After three selective population chemotherapy surveys, the prevalence of gross haematuria was reduced by 94.2% (15.8% to 0.9%) and both gross and microscopic haematuria were reduced by 76.4% (54.1% to 12.8%) among school children. Community involvement and health education were stressed in this programme. The use of dispensary laboratories to maintain control of urinary schistosomiasis is now being evaluated.
A farming systems study of abortion in dairy cattle on the Atherton Tableland. 3. Metabolic factors.	An association with a rank correlation of 0.55 (p = 0.06) was obtained between monthly rainfall and monthly abortions for a group of 24 farms in tropical Australia where cows grazed predominantly summer rain-dependent pasture. A similar association was found among cows grazing nitrogen-fertilised, irrigated pasture in winter in the same area. On farms with irrigated pasture the first service conception and abortion rates in herds which grazed intensively during the night (abortion 8.9%; first service conception 42.9%) differed significantly from those which grazed during the day (abortion 6.4%; first service conception 52.9%), and this suggested that increased abortion rates and decreased first conception rates may be part of the one syndrome. An hypothesis was developed that the feeding of immature nitrogen-fertilised pasture, rich in protein and stimulated by rain or irrigation, is associated with an increased abortion rate and a depressed conception rate. Other evidence included an increased susceptibility of first lactation cows to abortion, a lower abortion rate in late pregnant dry cows fed more mature pasture, a 20% repeat abortion rate in the population sampled and the lack of conclusive evidence for infectious and selected non-infectious agents. There were no other observed clinical signs in most aborting cows.
Personal risk-factor chart for cutaneous melanoma.	Information from a case-control study of all patients with cutaneous malignant melanoma first diagnosed in Scotland in 1987 has been used to derive a personal risk-factor chart that can be used by both the medical profession and the general public. The relative risk of cutaneous melanoma is estimated from the four strongest risk factors identified by conditional logistic regression. These factors are total number of benign pigmented naevi above 2 mm diameter; freckling tendency; number of clinically atypical naevi (over 5 mm diameter and having an irregular edge, irregular pigmentation, or inflammation); and a history of severe sunburn at any time in life. Use of this risk-factor chart should enable preventive advice for and surveillance of those at greatest risk.
Survival and activity of Salmonella typhimurium and Escherichia coli in tropical freshwater.	The survival of Salmonella typhimurium LT2 and Escherichia coli was studied in situ in a tropical rain forest watershed using membrane diffusion chambers. Numbers were determined by acridine orange staining and a Coulter counter. Population activity was determined by microautoradiography, cell respiration, frequency of dividing cells, and by nucleic acid composition. Numbers of Salm, typhimurium and E. coli decreased less than 1 log unit after 105 h as measured by direct count methods. Activity as measured by respiration, acridine orange activity, frequency of dividing cells, and microautoradiography indicated that both bacteria remained moderately active during the entire study. After 24 h, E. coli was more active than Salm. typhimurium, as measured by nucleic acid composition, and frequency of dividing cells. Both E. coli and Salm. typhimurium survived and remained active in this tropical rain forest watershed for more than 5 d, suggesting that Salm. typhimurium may be of prolonged public health significance once it is introduced into tropical surface waters. As E. coli was active and survived for a long time in this natural environment, it would seem to be unsuitable as an indicator of recent faecal contamination in tropical waters.
Formulation of Polyethylene Glycol ointment bases suitable for tropical and subtropical climates. II.	Attention has been focused on the suitability of PEG ointment bases in tropical and subtropical regions. Penetrometer studies were carried out at 33, 37 and 50 degrees C respectively. Penetrometer experiments indicate that the type and amount of PEG will greatly affect the penentration time, and a large number of selected PEGs showed softening in the second month. Rotovisco experiments were conducted at 35 and 45 degrees C. Experiments conducted by Rotovisco at 35 degrees C indicate that PEG bases exhibit plastic flow and rheopexy, and there is an increase in yield values during the twelve months. Experiments worked out by Rotovisco at 45 degrees C reflected that an increase in temperature resulted in a decrease in rheopexy, viscosity, area of histeresis loop and yield values. Results obtained by the two methods demonstrate that PEG 4000 in the presence of equal amounts of PEG 400 has a good texture and might be a suitable ointment base for tropical and subtropical areas.
Population evolution of the free-living stage of goat gastrointestinal nematodes on herbage under tropical conditions in Guadeloupe (French West Indies).	In Guadeloupe (French West Indies), paddocks were contaminated with gastrointestinal helminth eggs by young goats during the rainy season and the dry season. The evolution of L3 population size on herbage was followed over a period of 56 days. The major genera were Haemonchus and Trichostrongylus. It was shown that the L3 appeared on herbage 7-14 days after the beginning of contamination (DAC), and the L3 population sizes were maximal between the 14th and the 21st DAC. The maximum duration of larval survival ranged between 49 and 56 days. There was a marked depressive effect by the dry season on eggs hatching and L3 development with some arrested egg hatching in Trichostrongylus. The climatic events and the amount of dry matter on pastures during the grazing period appeared as the main important factors which could interfere with the overall evolution of the L3 population size and there was no preferential direction of L3 migration from faeces to herbage.
Pasture populations of cattle nematode larvae in Guadeloupe (French West Indies).	The development of numbers of third-stage (L3) larvae of gastrointestinal nematodes after pat (faeces) deposition by heifers is described, using a mathematical model, for seven experiments carried out in Guadeloupe (French West Indies). A dramatic rise in L3 population size occurred on herbage near pats, 17-25 days after pat deposition. There was no clear relationship between climatic data and L3 population dynamics. However, 5 successive days of rainfall induced the resumption of larval migration in two experiments. Changing the unit of expression of L3 population size (100 L3 m-2 vs 1000 L3 per kg DM) did not alter estimates of the model parameters. The evolution of L3 population of Haemonchus and Cooperia were similar.
Enteropathogens in travellers returning from the tropics]	Diarrhea is not only the most common health hazard during travel in the tropics but also the most frequent condition which prompts returning travellers to see a physician. The prevalence of bacterial and parasitic enteropathogens in people attending our outpatient department after returning from the tropics has been studied and the laboratory results of stool examinations have been compared with clinical symptoms. Of the 173 persons enrolled, 19 (11%) harboured bacterial pathogens and pathogenic protozoans (Giardia lamblia and Entamoeba histolytica) were found in 26 (15%). The data of 156 patients were evaluated. Enteropathogenic bacteria and/or protozoa were found in 29 (46%) of the 63 patients presenting with diarrhea at the time of investigation. In contrast, 10 (11%) of the 93 asymptomatic subjects had enteropathogenic organisms in the feces (p less than 0.01). The results appear to confirm that bacteriological stool examinations of travellers returning from the tropics without diarrhea are not usually indicated, even if a history of transient travellers' diarrhea is reported. Parasitological investigations are justified in this group only if asymptomatic carriage of Giardia or E. histolytica is considered an indication for specific treatment.
Silica gel as transport medium for Corynebacterium diphtheriae under tropical conditions (Indonesia )	Silica gel was confirmed as a useful transport medium for Corynebacterium diphtheriae in the investigation of diphtheria cases in which there is no ready access to laboratory facilities.
Psychosomatic aspects of protein-calorie malnutrition in early childhood in a tropical environment. Facts and hypotheses]	After a brief look at the clinical descriptions of marasmus and kwashiorkor, and a summary of the physiopathological concepts of these protein calorie malnutritions (PCM), the author looks at arguments which suggest there is a change in the mother-child relationship at the onset of PCM, excluding, however, those malnutritions which appear in conditions of famine or catastrophe. These arguments are drawn principally from studies done in Africa, and are based on clinical, sociological, and ethnopsychiatric data. The contributing factor of maternal depression and that of relational characteristics of the child are considered, and an analysis is made of how these factors might converge at the onset of PCM. The author attempts to demonstrate the important role of a psychomotor retardation in the tableau of psychological troubles which present themselves during the course of Kwashiorkor. The role and importance of weaning, of the separation and the psychomotor retardation in the genesis of the "situation of malnutrition" are discussed. Finally, a parallel is established between PCM and early psychosomatic syndromes observed in the west, principally the anorexias and insomnias during the first year of life. The point in common between these situations and PCM is perhaps the onset of conditions having an upsetting and distorting effect on the mother-child relationship. The family and the entourage use certain collective representations in Africa ("Nit-KuBon", "Tjid-a-Paxer") to try and explain the onset of PCM. The description of these traditional representations is utilized as a materialization, by the mother and the social group, of an alteration of the mother-child relationship, and can be compared to representations which play the same role in the west.
Pathogenic role of Bacillus cereus in wound infections in the tropics.	A bacteriological survey was undertaken on clinically infected traumatic wounds amongst a group of young and fit Operation Raleigh members, who were living and working in a remote area of Costa Rican rain forest. All infected wounds were swabbed before treatment and, where possible, at intervals during treatment. Swabs were also obtained from the nose and throat of each patient. All swabs were stored by desiccation in sterile silica gel for culture at a later date. Culture revealed a high rate of isolation of Bacillus cereus from the wounds. The organism was commonly isolated in pure and heavy growth. Contamination by B. cereus was considered and excluded experimentally. Preliminary toxological studies have shown that the majority of the isolates produce a necrotic exotoxin, in keeping with the clinical findings. These results suggest that B. cereus caused significant sepsis in this series of traumatic wounds.
Drinking water problems in tropical climates as in the example of Abeokuta, Nigeria]	In June 1986, bacteriological and chemical examinations of drinking-water were carried out in Abeokuta (Ogun State, Nigeria) and in surrounding areas. The analysis showed that the population of this region is not provided with drinking-water of suitable quality, as defined by international standards. In could also be established that secondary contamination, due to inappropriate transport and storage of the water, leads to further reduction in the quality of the already contaminated water. These results show that this contaminated drinking-water must be considered as the major cause of numerous intestinal infections.
A novel aid for the relief of gall-stone pain.	Attention is drawn to the use and advantages of aerosol propelled glyceryl trinitrate in the management of smooth muscle spasm in the tropics.
Hematologic characteristics in Black Africa]	Although the physiology and pathology of blood are similar in western countries and in tropical areas, some clear differences in blood constants and in haematological disorders are characteristics of latter regions. Haemoglobinopathy, G6PD deficiency and nutritional anemias predominant among red blood cells diseases; Burkitt's lymphoma is particular among lymphomas; in haemostatic abnormalities the frequency of intravascular coagulation and the rarity of thrombosis should be emphasized.
Survival of Candida albicans in tropical marine and fresh waters.	A survey of Candida albicans indicated that the organism was present at all sites sampled in a rain forest stream and in near-shore coastal waters of Puerto Rico. In the rain forest watershed no relationship existed between densities of fecal coliforms and densities of C. albicans. At two pristine sites in the rain forest watershed both C. albicans and Escherichia coli survived in diffusion chambers for extended periods of time. In near-shore coastal waters C. albicans and E. coli survival times in diffusion chambers were enhanced by effluent from a rum distillery. The rum distillery effluent had a greater effect on E. coli than on C. albicans survival in the diffusion chambers. These studies show that neither E. coli nor C. albicans organisms are good indicators of recent fecal contamination in tropical waters. It further demonstrates that pristine freshwater environments and marine waters receiving organic loading in the tropics can support densities of C. albicans which may be a health hazard.
Hepatic fibrosis and cirrhosis in tropical countries (including portal hypertension).	The spectrum of diseases seen in patients from certain 'tropical areas' requires that a physician be aware of some of the syndromes discussed here. A high index of suspicion for less usual causes of cirrhosis is imperative when evaluating such patients presenting with hepatocellular disease. The differential must be expanded and the work-up complete. Liver biopsy should be performed as early in the course of disease as is feasible and will often provide valuable diagnostic information. It will not only facilitate treatment but allow for needed clinical trials and may help to increase our understanding of the various disease processes.
Problems posed by HIV infection in women in tropical zones]	Retroviruses (mainly H.I.V. 1 and H.I.V. 2) are now largely spread over in Central Africa and Caribbean Islands, particularly in large cities. Their transmission is essentially horizontal and mainly sexual. As a matter of fact, sexual transmission is responsible in about 80% of the cases, leaving only a small percentage to transmission by needle (or by any aggressive material), blood or blood by-products. As far as sexual transmission is concerned, it is essentially heterosexual, in spite of the primary epidemic outbreak in the occidental world that focused interest toward male homosexual group, the first exposed to A.I.D.S. Nowadays we know that heterosexual transmission is important and bi-directionnal, even if transmission female to male has seemed to be more difficult to enlight, as it is common in sexually transmitted diseases. Transmission risk to an heterosexual partner is between 20 and 70%. Virus is present in semen, and in cervico-vaginalis secretions during all menstruation cycle. Vertical transmission, mother to child, through placenta or during delivery is frequent, and is of about 50%. First data on heterosexual transmission have been found in Central Africa, indicating high rates for prostitutes, their "customers", unmarried women with numerous partners, women with an other S.T.D. A.I.D.S. in child has been first described in Haïti and in Zaïre. The very important role played by heterosexual transmission imposed sanitary education and usage of contraceptives which are efficient but difficult to firmly recommended for social and cultural considerations.
Portable, ambient air microclimate cooling in simulated desert and tropic conditions.	We examined the feasibility of providing ambient air during exercise and conditioned (cooled) air during rest on reducing physiological strain and optimizing tolerance time. Six male soldiers attempted 250-min exposures in hot/dry and hot/wet environments. Subjects wore chemical protective clothing over the combat vehicle crewman uniform and an air-cooled vest. They alternated between 50 min of treadmill walking (420 W) and 50 min of rest (105 W). During the walks, a backpack mounted blower provided a total of 10 or 18 cfm of air to the vest and face; while subjects received 18 cfm of conditioned air from an umbilical during rest. A control test with conditioned air during rest, but only a ventilated facepiece during work was also conducted in the hot/dry environment. In the hot/dry environment the ambient air backpack extended (p less than 0.05) tolerance time and significantly reduced rectal temperatures, heart rates and sweating rates compared to control; no differences were found between 10 and 18 cfm. In the hot/wet environment, tolerance time was extended compared to a predicted tolerance time assuming no microclimate cooling. We conclude that the ambient air backpack reduced physiological strain and improved tolerance time of combat vehicle crewmen during exercise in the heat.
Assessment of a physical training program in patients with myocardial infarction in a tropical country.	Twenty-five myocardial infarction patients, included in a comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation programme, were studied in order to assess the physical training effects upon several physiological parameters in a country with a tropical climate. Training consisted of three-times weekly supervised sessions with running, under telemetric control, accomplished continuously, during thirty minutes at 120 m/min as mean speed. Symptom-limited exercise stress testing was initially performed and repeated after three months of training. 88% of patients showed an increase in physical working capacity, 84% in exercise time duration and 80% in the myocardial efficiency index at subsequent ergometries. A decrease of double product and submaximal heart rate was observed. Angina, ECG ischaemic alterations and arrhythmias during exercise in the first test disappeared or occurred with higher workload in the second ergometry. Mean resting acid concentration, 1.28 +/- 0.36 mmol/l, increased immediately after exercise to 2.03 +/- 0.58 mmol/l. The prescribed physical training programme showed satisfactory results and increased the patients' quality of life, even in a humid and moderately hot climate.
Medically important solar ultraviolet A. Radiation measurements.	Results from a 6-year study of solar ultraviolet A (UVA) radiation measurements at the equatorial location of Penang (5 degrees N) are presented. On clear days, the diurnal flux reaches a very high dosage of about 3.0 x 10(-2) KWHM-2 around midday. The average daily total flux is in the range of 1.6 x 10(-1) KWHM-2 and does not change much seasonally. The high 83% cloud cover only reduces the incoming flux to about half. The radiation flux represents a lower limit of the incident UVA radiation applicable to much of the equatorial/tropical region.
Acute renal failure amongst children in a tropical environment.	The pathogenetic factors leading to acute renal failure (ARF) in 223 children between the ages of 20 days and 14 years were studied. Diarrhoeal diseases were responsible for ARF in 49.8%, acute glomerulonephritis in 34.1%, drug induced intravascular hemolysis in glucose -6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency in 4.5%, snake bite in 4%, hemolytic uremic syndrome in 2.2%, and miscellaneous causes in 5.4%. Dialysis was instituted in 178 children and the others were treated conservatively. Renal histology in 39 out of 76 children who presented with an acute nephritic illness revealed acute endocapillary proliferative glomerulonephritis in 27 and crescentic glomerulonephritis in 12. The histology in 79 out of 147 remaining patients showed acute tubular necrosis in 64, acute cortical necrosis in 13, and acute interstitial nephritis in 2. Overall mortality was 27.4%. This high incidence of ARF due to infective diarrhoeas and dysentery reflects poor socio-economic and hygienic conditions, inadequate facilities in rural areas, delays in seeking medical advice, and lack of knowledge about fluid and electrolyte therapy amongst the staff.
Tungiasis--an increasingly frequent vacation dermatosis]	Because of the increase in international air travel to the tropical areas, we often observe skin diseases now that were formerly restricted to the equatorial zones. As we have recently observed several cases of tungiasis in our department, we report here the epidemiology, clinical appearance and treatment of this "tourism-transmitted" rare form of tropical parasitosis.
Diarrhea and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the tropics (tropical AIDS). The place of digestive endoscopic examinations in diagnosing opportunistic infections]	A.I.D.S. has revealed some parasitic, microbiotic, mycotic or viral diseases causing diarrhea or has given a revival of interest to them. So are Cryptosporidium, Isospora belli, Salmonella typhi murium, Cytomegalovirus. Some easy techniques lead to the diagnosis of some pathogenic agents, such as parasitologic diagnosis of Cryptosporidium. Some other pathogenic agents call for a biopsy in view of an histopathology test: it is the case of Cytomegalovirus of which the diagnosis is stated positively by the histological picture with virus intranuclear inclusions. Then, it is necessary to make clear the actual indications of digestive endoscopic scanning when confronted by a diarrhea of tropical A.I.D.S.
Studies in the field of tick-borne blood parasites]	A review of 'piroplasmosis' (a collective name tick-borne protozoan forms of disease of the blood (babesiasis, theileriasis) as well as rickettsial forms (anaplasmosis), written by De Blieck and published in 1916, is compared with the present state of our knowledge. Considerable progress has been made in classifying the causative agents. Moreover, the situation in the Netherlands has become much clearer. However, as regards the situation in the tropics, progress in control is rather limited and these forms of disease continue to be of major economic importance. The use of ascaricides is becoming increasingly confronted with problems and, in particular conditions, the use of cattle characterised by a considerable genetically acquired ability to produce an immune response to ticks is growing. In addition, it is hoped that it will be possible to immunise animals both against ticks and against tick-borne disease using characterised antigens produced by modern biotechnological methods in the future. Finally, a warning note is sounded that the active role of the faculty of veterinary science in the field of tropical veterinary medicine could well be reduced in the near future as a result of economies and changes of structure.
The isolation of fusobacteria from tropical ulcers.	Tropical ulcer is a disease found most commonly in the tropics, although the disease is not confined to those areas. Young children are affected most frequently and the disease is thought to be a polymicrobial infection with fusobacteria, aerobic microorganisms and spirochaetes each playing a role. The fusobacteria have been reported on smears but have not been cultured thus far. We report the isolation and culture of these organisms from 46 ulcers and have also demonstrated the same organisms in skin biopsies from these lesions.
The influence of season and shade on oestrous behaviour, timing of preovulatory LH surge and the pattern of progesterone secretion in FFPN and Creole heifers in a tropical climate.	The aim of this work was to study the duration of oestrous behaviour, timing of the LH surge and the progesterone pattern with and without shelter during January and again in July in FFPN and Creole heifers in a tropical environment. From days 21 to 28 after a synchronization treatment (progesterone + PMSG), ten Creole heifers and ten FFPN heifers were checked for oestrus and sampled for blood every 3 h to assay plasma LH levels and every day from that oestrus to the following one to assay plasma progesterone content. Five heifers in each group were housed in a covered corral and five were exposed to the sun in a corral without shelter. The mean duration of oestrus for all the heifers was 14.0 h. There was a significant breed/season interaction: 21 h in July and 15 h in January for FFPN heifers. Sun exposure did not significantly affect the mean duration of oestrus. The distribution of onset of heat with respect to time of day was not uniform: 29% of the oestruses began between 5 and 8 a.m. and 19% between 8 and 11 p.m. The mean interval between onset of heat and maximal LH value (3.58 h) only varied significantly with the season (1.6 h in January and 6.0 h in July; P less than 0.05) but was equivalent to those obtained by other authors. The plasma progesterone levels of both breeds were lower than those described for cows in temperate countries and were lower for shaded FFPN heifers in January (2.8 ng/ml) than in July (3.93 ng/ml).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Suitable bases for patch testing in tropical countries.	Patients suspected of having contact dermatitis due to topical medicaments were patch tested with various bases to evaluate the most suitable base for tropical countries. Plastibase and polyethylene glycol 400 produced the least positive reactions. Both were therefore found to be suitable bases, although polyethylene glycol had more positive results than plastibase.
Low molecular weight (7S) IgM and free light chains in the sera of patients with the tropical splenomegaly syndrome.	The presence of naturally occurring LMW (7S) IgM was suspected on Sephadex G-200 filtration of a serum pool from patients with tropical splenomegaly syndrome (TSS). It was found in nineteen out of thirty-one sera from these patients using a polyacrylamide/agarose gel-diffusion  method, and in fifteen of the sera after precipitation of the 19S IgM with 10% polyethylene glycol (PEG). Free K-light chains was detected in twenty-five out of thirty-one sera from patients with the TSS while free lambda-light chains was detected in four. The presence of 7S IgM and free light chains in sera of these patients is in keeping with our hypothesis that there is a disorder of control of immunoglobulin production in the tropical splenomegaly syndrome.
Problems of toxicants in marine food products. 1. Marine biotoxins.	The expansion of marine fisheries into tropical waters, which is now occurring, will increase the risks of widespread poisonings because of the abundance of biotoxins in warm-water organisms. However, toxic marine organisms are not only a health hazard but also a possible source of new pharmaceutical products.A classification of marine intoxicants is given in this paper with special reference to the oral biotoxins which will be of primary concern in the expansion of warm-water fisheries. The biotoxins are both invertebrate (e.g., molluscs, arthropods) and vertebrate (mostly fishes) in origin. Biotoxications of vertebrate origin may be caused by the muscles, the gonads or the blood of certain fishes or by special poison glands not equipped with traumagenic devices. (Venomous fishes, having poison glands and traumagenic spines, etc., are of no direct concern as oral intoxicants.)The ichthyosarcotoxic fishes, in which the flesh is poisonous, appear to constitute the most significant health hazard. A list of fishes reported as causing ciguatera poisoning (one of the most serious and widespread forms of ichthyosarcotoxism) is included in this paper.
Experience with Hong Kong influenza in tropical areas.	Following the introduction of A2/Hong Kong/68 influenza virus into 2 different susceptible populations residing in Thailand and the Panama Canal Zone, epidemic disease occurred within approximately 1 month. The establishment and transmission of the virus, and the disease it caused, were studied in detail. The rates of progression and extent of overt epidemic disease and the proportions of overt to subclinical infection in the 2 areas were different. In Korat Royal Thai Air Force Base, only 8% of US servicemen became ill, although 13% of them were infected. The epidemic progressed slowly, so that no more than 1.5% of the population were ill at any one time during the 3 months of its recognized presence. In contrast, in the Canal Zone the clinical attack rate approached 50%, and subclinical infection occurred in 5% or less of the population during a 6-week period when absenteeism from schools and work was quite obvious. Factors such as immunization status of the populations and virulence of virus seemed not to be primarily responsible for the differences. Rather, the latter appear to be related to differences in environmental circumstances, with crowding contributing to the higher disease incidence in the Canal Zone.The data show that this variant A2 virus may produce different epidemiological patterns of disease in tropical areas, similar to those observed in temperate zones.
Evaporative losses of water by birds.	1. Birds lose water in evaporation from the respiratory tract and, in many species, through the skin. Anatomical arrangements in the nasal passages to conservation of water and hear from the expired air in the absence of heat loads. However, most species still expend more water in evaporation than they produce in metabolism when either quiescent or vigorously active. Certain small birds, several of them associated with arid environments, represent exceptions to this and their more favorable situation appears in part to reflect as an ability to curtail cutaneous water loss. 2. Birds typically resort to panting in dealing with substantial heat loads developing in hot environments or accumulated over bouts of activity. In a number of species this form of evaporative cooling is supplemented by gular fluttering. 3. The ubiquitousness of active heat defense appears to reflect more the importance for birds of dealing with heat loads existing following flight or sustained running than any universal affinity for hot climates. Panting can be sustained for hours, despite progressive dehydration and, in some instances, hypocapnia and respiratory alkalosis. The prominent involvement of thermoreceptors in the spinal cord in its initiation is of considerable interest.
Neonatal septicaemia in the tropics.	This review has shown a high incidence of neonatal septicaemia in a tropical environment. The predisposing factors leading to increased incidence of primary septicaemia include low maternal socioeconomic status, lack of adequate prenatal care, unsterile delivery practices in those born at home and increased incidence of susceptible hosts. Apart from gram-negative organisms, Staphylococcus aureus was the next common agent responsible for neonatal septicaemia. A combination of penicillinase-resistant penicillin and an eminoglycoside in particular gentamycin, should be the initial antibiotic of choice in suspected cases of neonatal septicaemia. Suggestions for reduction in the incidence of neonatal septicaemia were discussed.
Is poliomyelitis in the tropics provoked by injections?	In the tropics and sub-tropics, poliomyelitis is characterized by a high non-seasonal case-rate, very young victims and a predominance of leg paralysis following injections. It is proposes that this could be caused by infection of immunosuppressed infants with poliovirus of low virulence following mal-nutrition, infections with malaria and measles and treatment by injections. Vaccination policies are briefly reviewed and the complete safety of inactivated and oral poliovaccines in the tropics is queried on theoretical grounds. Even if injections are coincident with and not causal of paralysis, it may be difficult to persuade parents of this .
Calenture-missing at sea?	Calenture is a behavioural phenomenon, the predominant symptom being an irresistible impulse of sailors to jump into the sea from their vessels. The original description of this phenomenon was that of ancient Spanish sailors. Psychiatric descriptions of calenture appeared in the 18th and 19th centuries; subsequent psychiatric literature has, however, made no direct reference to calenture. This article describes calenture from a historical and clinical perspective, with discussion of the phenomenon in terms of modern psychological understanding. Some implications are considered, including the possible association with the nautical term 'missing at sea'.
Sleeping sickness and the factors affecting it in Botswana.	From the first appearance of sleeping sickness in Botswana in 1934 outbreaks increased in severity up to 1971. All populated areas around the fly belt were affected. Rates of infection are highest in the hot wet season and males aged between 30 and 50 years most affected. Rates vary considerably between tribes and have greatly increased in one tribe since 1966. Between 5 and 20% of cases die each year. Increase both in area of tsetse fly infestation and in human population size can account for the increase in severity of outbreaks. Timing of outbreaks correlates with years of low rainfall when people move closer to the fly belt. Seasonal variation in infection rates can be related to temperature and human movements in relation to agricultural activities. Adult males tend to travel and enter the fly belt more than other sections of the population and tribal differences in disease prevalence relate to cultural differences. Early tsetse control measures had little effect on sleeping sickness but aerial spraying with endosulfan coincided with a decline in the disease since 1973. In 1979 aerial spraying was shown to be effective in eliminating a threatened epidemic of sleeping sickness.
The effect of environmental temperature on sebum composition of tropical and temperate breeds of cattle.	This study compared to effect of environmental temperature on sebum composition in 2 breeds of cattle, British (SH) and Brahman (GB), which differ in their abilities to tolerate heat. By long-term exposure of both breeds to environmental temperatures of 24 C and 32 C and the more heat-tolerant GB breed to 38 C, it was possible to make breed comparisons at (a) different body temperatures, i.e., when all animals were exposed to the same environmental temperature, and (b), at the same body temperature, i.e., when the 2 breeds were exposed to different ambient temperatures. The composition of sebum excreted to saturation level on the skin surface was determined. At the same body temperatures, the amounts of fatty acids in each lipid class were higher in GB than in SH animals except during hyperthermia when the amounts of triglyceride fatty acids were similar in both breeds. The total amounts of individual fatty acids except 14:1, 16:1, 20:0 and 14:OH were higher in both breeds at 32 C than at 24 C. The GB cattle excreted more essential fatty acids (EFA) than the SH cattle at 24 C and at 32 C. There was a significant genotype by environment interaction in the amount of EFA excreted in triglyceride decreased whereas the amount excreted in wax esters increased with rising body temperature.
Circumstances and management of 72 animal bites among long-term residents in the tropics.	Little is known about rabies exposure among expatriates living in warm climates. Recommendations on pre-exposure prophylaxis are therefore controversial. This study assesses the post-exposure management of Swiss and German expatriates after potential rabies exposures. Dogs were involved in 69% of all incidents. Less than half of the owned dogs were vaccinated against rabies. Only 24-30% of post-exposure treatments were correct according to WHO recommendations. Expatriates with pre-exposure vaccination appear to be complacent about post-exposure treatment. The decision to give pre-exposure vaccination to expatriates in warm climate countries or to rely on post-exposure rabies vaccination depends on the available quality of treatment and must be carefully assessed prior to a stay abroad. Information on rabies risk must be better disseminated and vaccination of owned animals improved.
Nosocomial and community-acquired Xanthomonas maltophilia infection in tropical Australia.	Xanthomonas maltophilia infection is recognized as a serious problem in association with immunosuppressive and invasive therapies, and with the use of broad-spectrum antibiotics. In Darwin Hospital in Australia's Northern Territory preliminary evidence of nosocomial transmission of X. maltophilia prompted this retrospective examination of all X. maltophilia isolates over a 30 month period. X. maltophilia was most frequently isolated in the 'wet season' corresponding to times of increased antibiotic treatment of the serious community-acquired pneumonias encountered in this tropical region. A relatively high proportion of community-acquired isolates (4/18; 22%) was documented. This study demonstrates that X. maltophilia infection is an emerging cause of morbidity in tropical regions where endemic infections require the use of broad-spectrum beta-lactams.
The present status of the conquest of tropical Africa by Pulex irritans Linnaeus, 1758]	Owing to human parasites, two fleas, namely Pulex irritans Linné, 1758 and Tunga penetrans (L., 1758) were brought from America to intertropical Africa. The conquest of Africa by Pulex irritans, was really effective since the fifties, evidently by european strains. Some examples selected in occidental and oriental Africa show the reality of this fact. Accordingly, the epidemiological modalities in plague's african foci can be strongly changed.
Disease exchange across the tropical Atlantic.	The fifteenth-century encounter between previously separate disease environments was not simply an encounter between Europe and the Americas. It was preceded by an encounter between Europe and tropical Africa and followed by a still-more-intense transmission of diseases across the tropical Atlantic, mainly from Africa to the Americas. This transmission principally involved smallpox, yaws, yellow fever, and falciparum malaria. Many other vector-borne diseases failed to make the transfer for lack of suitable vectors in the Americas. The African diseases contributed even more than those from Europe to the depopulation of the humid tropics in the Americas. They also set up conditions that made residence in the tropical Americas dangerous for newly arrived people from Europe.
Effects of adverse storage on live virus vaccines.	A vaccine stored strictly according to the manufacturer's instructions can be used with confidence up to the designated expiry date. However, problems with transport, refrigeration plant, or electricity supply may lead to the exposure of a vaccine under field conditions, and particularly in tropical countries, to high or fluctuating temperatures. We have therefore studied the stability of the standard formulations of our live yellow fever virus, poliovirus and rubella virus vaccines, when they were deliberately exposed to high temperatures, or to alternating cycles of high and low temperatures, intended to simulate such conditions. Our results suggest that with these vaccines, the consequences of adverse storage are not likely to be serious.
Vaccines and vaccinations in the under-fives in Ghana, a tropical developing country.	In this paper, an attempt has been made to focus attention on the important childhood killer but immunizable diseases in Ghana, giving where available morbidity and mortality figures. Immunization schedules currently adopted in Ghana are discussed in the light of immunological considerations, the half-life of acquired maternal antibodies and from the point of view of known epidemiological patterns of these immunizable diseases. An attempt was thus made to justify the adoption of the immunization schedules currently in force in Ghana. Problems relating to some of the vaccines used in immunization of the under-fives in Ghana have been discussed in the light of personal experiences and the experiences of other colleagues, giving--where possible--suggestions for improvement. Finally, the paper delineates problem areas in immunization programmes of the under-fives in Ghana.
Tropical medicine for the 21st century.	The specialty of tropical medicine originated from the needs of the colonial era and is removed from many of the health care requirements of tropical countries today. Tropical medicine concentrates on parasitic diseases of warm climates, although other infections and diseases related to poverty rather than climate dominate medicine in developing countries challenged by population pressure, civil strife, and migration. In the new century, tropical medicine would best be absorbed into the specialty of infectious diseases, which should incorporate parasitic diseases, travel medicine, and sexually transmitted diseases. Pressing questions for health care and research in developing countries concern the provision of appropriate services for problems such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, sexually transmitted diseases, and injuries. The question of how to provide appropriate clinical care in resource poor settings for the major causes of morbidity and premature mortality has been neglected by donors, academic institutions, and traditional tropical medicine.
Cutaneous myiasis: review of 13 cases in travelers returning from tropical countries.	Cutaneous myiasis is frequently reported in patients from tropical countries. Most commonly infestation is due to Cordylobia anthropophaga and Dermatobia hominis, whereas Hypoderma lineatum is less likely to affect humans.
Indoor air pollution and asthma in hospitalized children in a tropical environment.	We performed a hospital-based study to examine a hypothesis that indoor air pollution was associated with acute asthma in young children living in Kuala Lumpur City. A total of 158 children aged 1 month to 5 years hospitalized for the first time for asthma were recruited as cases. Controls were 201 children of the same age group who were hospitalized for causes other than a respiratory illness. Information was obtained from mothers using a standardized questionnaire. Univariate analysis identified two indoor pollution variables as significant factors. Sharing a bedroom with an adult smoker and exposure to mosquito coil smoke at least three nights in a week were both associated with increased risk for asthma. Logistic regression analysis confirmed that sharing a bedroom with an adult smoker (OR = 1.91, 95% CI 1.13, 3.21) and exposure to mosquito coil smoke (OR = 1.73, 95% CI 1.02, 2.93) were independent risk factors. Other factors independently associated with acute asthma were previous history of allergy, history of asthma in first-degree relatives, low birth weight, and the presence of a coughing sibling. There was no association between asthma and exposure to kerosene stove, wood stove, aerosol mosquito repellent, type of housing, or crowding. We conclude that indoor air pollution is an avoidable factor in the increasing morbidity due to asthma in children in a tropical environment.
Mycoplasma pneumoniae infections in schoolchildren of a tropical community.	Information about Mycoplasma pneumoniae infections in tropical countries is scarce. This study reports the prevalence of anti-M. pneumoniae antibodies among schoolchildren from the tropical community of Palmares, Costa Rica. The serum samples were collected in July 1983 from 2021 children who represented 99% of the county's schoolchildren. Immunofluorescence (IFA) and in some cases ELISA serological methods were applied. IFA seropositivity was high (53%) and ranged from 22% to 79% depending on the district. Marked differences in the prevalence of antibodies in children attending schools of neighboring communities, suggest that the school may be epidemiologically important as a focus to spread mycoplasma infections among children. The presence of a low percentage of antibodies (IgG, IgM and IgA) against the 168 kd- M. pneumoniae antigen suggested that there were few cases of active or recent infections.
Trace elements in the sweat of acclimatized persons.	Sweat samples were collected from the arms of 15 normal, healthy subjects while they exercised on a cycle ergometer at room temperature. Samples were analysed for copper, zinc, manganese, nickel, cadmium and aluminium by atomic absorption spectrophotometry. Mean sweat levels determined for each element were as follows: 358.1 micrograms/l for Zn, 486.8 micrograms/l for Cu, 3.10 micrograms/l for Mn and 1.91 micrograms/l, 69.9 micrograms/l and 15.0 micrograms/l for Cd, Ni and Al, respectively. It appears that substantial quantities of trace elements are excreted in the sweat of those sweating habitually. Our findings suggest that the influence of diet in replenishing the body stores of trace elements and the conservation of these elements by the kidneys may play a part in preventing the occurrence of chronic deficiency states in acclimatized persons.
Pollen of gramineae and its relation with allergic manifestations in Costa Rica]	Allergy to pollen is a significant health problem in Costa Rica. This volume both reviews and presents new data on the subject, for which there are no similar comprehensive studies in other areas of Latin America. A description of the sampling methods is presented, as well as an introduction to work presented throughout the volume. A hundred control subjects were compared with 480 patients with rhinitis, conjuntivitis, bronchial asthma and/or atopic dermatitis. Poaceae pollen ranks first in Type I allergic sensitivization, because (1) it produces abundant pollen, (2) occurs in a variety of climates and habitats and (3) its proteins are particularly allergenic. In 1986, about 0.33% of the country's population became new allergy patients, and the rate is increasing. The normal extraction methods were satisfactory and were applied to frozen pollen with a mean active life of about three years. Prich tests were done for a period of two years using only extract combinations by tribe. A second stage used species-specific extracts (1/10 W/V 50% glycerine).
Type I hypersensitivity to gramineae pollen (by tribe), in allergic conjunctivitis patients]	A total of 84 Costa Rican patients with a clinical diagnosis of Allergic Conjuntivitis (with or without other allergic diagnosis) and 100 non atopic subjects were studied by prick tests for all of Poaceae Tribes present in Costa Rica. Positivity was recorded in 70% of the Allergic Conjunctivitis patients for at least one of the tribes (against 2% of controls). An increase in the number of analysed tribes correlated with a higher number of patients allergic to graminean pollens. Guanacaste Province had the highest positivity, and patients aged 11 to 20 years were the most sensitive. Aveneae had the highest positivity except in Alajuela Province, in which Paniceae was highest in positivity. Poaceae pollens are very important in allergic hypersensitivity among Allergic Conjunctivitis patients. Prick tests for all the tribes present in the country are required to fully detect positivity to this family.
Chronic diarrhea in children of tropics.	Syndrome of prolonged diarrhea is quite frequent in tropical children. Careful clinical appraisal can help in separating these children into distinct clinical entities which have different underlying etiological factors. In most cases diagnosis is possible on clinical grounds supplemented by simple investigations. A step by step approach as outlined is extremely helpful in planning a rational management.
Blood levels of the prostaglandin F2 alpha metabolite during the postpartum period in Bos indicus cows in the humid tropics.	Plasma levels of the prostaglandin F2 alpha metabolite (15-ketodihydroprostaglandin F2 alpha) were determined by radioimmunoassay in 26 postpartum multiparous Brahman cows. Variation in the concentrations of the metabolite was high among animals. 15-Ketodihydro-PGF2 alpha concentrations on day 0, 5, 10, 15 and 20 postpartum ranged from 402 to > or = 1000, from 251 to > or = 1000, from 237 to > or = 1000, from 75 to 608 and from 75 to 267 pmol l-1, respectively. The prostaglandin metabolite levels were elevated at parturition and remained elevated thereafter for periods varying up to 10 to 23 days postpartum (16.7 +/- 0.7 days, mean +/- SEM). Uterine involution (UI) was completed by 28.0 +/- 0.8 days (ranging from 20 to 36 days). A markedly linear decrease of 15-ketodihydro-PGF2 alpha levels (P < 0.001) occurred from parturition until Day 23 postpartum. A significant correlation between the duration of the elevated PGF2 alpha metabolite and the time required for completion of UI was observed (r = -0.05, P < 0.01). The effect of parity (PT) on 15-ketodihydro-PGF2 alpha levels was not significant, however the relationship between UI and PT was affected (r = -0.59, P < 0.001). Both PGF2 alpha release and PT had effects on the variability of UI (R2 = 0.62, P < 0.001). No significant relationship was found between elevated levels of 15-ketodihydro-PGF2 alpha UI and PT with postpartum anoestrous interval (PPAI).
Amazonian ethnobotany and the search for new drugs.	Tropical rain forests offer enormous prospects for the discovery of new drugs for use in Western medicine. The Amazon supports 80,000 species of higher plants and a diverse Indian population. Focusing attention on those plants used as medicines by indigenous peoples is the most efficient way of identifying the plants that contain bioactive compounds. There is an urgent need for more ethnobotanists and ethnopharmacologists to be trained to document as much information as possible before it and the plants are lost through destruction of the rain forest and acculturation of the indigenous peoples. Ethnobotanical studies have identified plants documented by early travellers; these include Paullinia yoco and Ilex guayusa which are used as stimulants and have been shown to be rich in caffeine. Studies of the hallucinogen prepared from Banisterioposis caapi have shown that the native people know which plants to add to the mixture to lengthen and intensify the intoxication produced by the beta-carboline alkaloids in the plant. Three major snuffs are used in the Amazonia; the plants from which they are derived have been identified. One of the snuffs also has antifungal and curare-like activities; chemical analysis on the active principles has not been done. Several plants are considered as prime candidates for scientific study as sources of useful chemicals for medicine or industry. These include some used to prepare teas or other infusions for treatment of various symptoms of senile dementia.
Leishmaniasis in the lowlands of Bolivia, prevalence of the disease in two groups of localities with different settlement ages in Carrasco Tropical, Cochabamba.	The invasion of the Bolivian Jungle has brought the new colonists some unfamiliar diseases, among which we study Leishmaniasis. A previous study described the situation in Yapacaní. Departamento of Santa Cruz, a primary rain forest lowland area. We now focus on the characteristics of Carrasco Tropical, close to a hilly territory of the andean mountains. We studied 11 localities ("colonies") grouped as unions with different lengths of residence in the area. We considered males and females over 15 years old as "at risk" and studied in them all forms of leishmanial infection, through clinical and laboratory (smears) means, including the Montenegro Skin Test (IDRM). Cutaneous ulcers and scars were seen in 2.9% (10 patients of 339 at risk, 6 from "27 de octubre", a younger settlement, 4 from the older Tamboradas): mucocutaneous lesions in 3 (1 from the younger settlement); and skin scars alone in 10.3% (35 from the younger area). The only 2 females with positive findings in the study were seen in this latter group. Transmission is apparently associated with the primary forest which exists at the foot of the Andes in the area, which is visited preferentially by young men.
Prurigo in tropical area. Importance of its association with HIV infection]	The term prurigo applies to a classic chronic skin disease of children (P. strophulus) which is becoming found very seldom in developed countries, but remains extraordinarily prevalent in tropical areas. This striking geographical distribution relies on its ectoparasitic origin. Some peculiar aspects of prurigo, observed in French Guyana (South America), are reported. The original point is a new aspect of adult acquired prurigo, associated with HIV infection, which appears to be one of the features characteristic of tropical AIDS. This HIV associated prurigo (HAP) is the revelating event, in as high as 20% of HIV infected people, significatively those with less than 200 CD4 cells. HAP appears as a marker of HIV infection with poor sensitivity, but much higher specificity (92%), with no correlation with acquisition's risk factors. Just like infantile prurigo, HAP can be considered an arthropod bite reaction which seems to be enhanced in HIV infected people living in tropical environment.
A tropical assemblage of ectoparasites: gill and head parasites of Lethrinus miniatus (Teleostei, Lethrinidae).	Aspects of the community ecology of metazoan ectoparasites of Lethrinus miniatus (Teleostei. Lethrinidae) from 3 localities on the Great Barrier Reef were examined. Twelve species of Monogenea, 6 of Copepoda, 2 species of adult and several larval Isopoda and 1 leech were found. Total parasite numbers reach 3500 per host, and prevalence of infection with a particular parasite species reached 100% in some species. Numbers of parasite species per fish varied from 5 to 11. Four parasite species were most dominant on different fish if intensities of infection were used to calculate dominance, one species representing about 80% of all parasite individuals on a particular fish at 2 localities and about 50% at the third locality. Ten parasite species were most dominant on different fish, if volume (biomass) was used for calculating dominance, one species representing about 55% at one and 80% of total parasite volume at 2 localities. Parasites included at least 12 congeneric species of 4 or more genera, and those (of 2 genera) occurring on the gills showed much overlap in their distribution. Congeneric Monogenea of the families Dactylogyridae and Diplectanidae occurring in the same sites differ markedly in the size and structure of their copulatory sclerites. Positive associations between species were much more common than negative ones. The bony parts of the gills (gill arches) were never found to be infected, indicating the availability of empty niches.
A case of nasal entomophtoral phycomycosis observed in an arid African region (Somalia)]	On the African continent, rhinophycomycosis entomophtorae, a deep mycosis due to Conidiobolus coranatus, has been encountered mainly in wet forest areas. Only one case, which involved a Tchadian, has been reported in a dry zone. The present report describes a case observed in a 30-year-old Somalian, who lived all his life in the rural zone of Dinsoor where the climate is hot (temperature between 22 degrees C and 30 degrees C) and dry (annual rainfall less than 400 mm). In this patient, diagnosis was based on the presence of a characteristic bifocal deformation of the central region of the face and on histological findings typical of rhinophycomycosis entomophtorae. This case underlines the fact that this deep mycosis can occur outside of wet forest areas in Africa. Thus practitioners should not rule this diagnosis out simply on the basis of climatic conditions.
The ultrasonic evaluation of psoas abscess (tropical pyomyositis) in children.	Psoas abscesses in children are not rare in tropical and sub-tropical countries and are related to staphylococcus aureus infection and poor socio-economic conditions. The condition should be considered in all children with the triad of pyrexia, flank pain and hip symptoms. Ultrasound is a readily available and definitive examination. Sonography was used in a series of 45 patients. The findings are discussed and two representative cases presented.
Emergence of epidemic dengue/dengue hemorrhagic fever as a public health problem in the Americas.	The incidence of dengue and dengue hemorrhagic fever has increased dramatically in the past 15 years in most urban centers of the tropics. Coincident with this increase has been the emergence of epidemic dengue hemorrhagic fever in the American region. The current changing disease pattern in the Americas is very similar to that which occurred in southeast Asia 30 years ago. The similarities in the evolution of severe disease in the two regions and the possible reasons for the changing disease pattern are discussed.
Epidemiology, clinical aspects, prevention and self care in travelers' diarrhea]	Travellers' diarrhea is the most frequently occurring health problem in travellers to tropical and subtropical regions. The main risk factors for this condition are substandard hygiene, contaminated food and drink. Usually the illness begins during the first week of travel and lasts on average four days with mild symptomatology. The causative agent is usually bacterial (40% enterotoxic E. coli), and strict observance of hygiene rules and careful selection of food and drink is an effective strategy to avoid travellers' diarrhea. Prophylactic use of antibiotics is rarely indicated, but self-therapy is of central importance. Adequate oral rehydration is essential, and in uncomplicated cases, antimotility drugs can provide adults with rapid symptomatic relief. Additional antibiotic treatment can be recommended.
An endogenous circannual rhythm of reproduction in a tropical bat, Anoura geoffroyi, is not entrained by photoperiod.	Most species of mammals live in the tropics, and many breed seasonally, but little is known about the regulation of their seasonal cycles. Males of a tropical bat, Anoura geoffroyi (Order Chiroptera, Family Phyllostomidae), from 10 degrees latitude in Trinidad, were studied to test the role of photoperiod in regulating seasonal reproduction in the deep tropics. Groups of males were subjected to five treatments: 1) constant photoperiod; 2) a 12-mo cycle of civil twilight photoperiods mimicking those occurring at 10 degrees latitude; 3) civil twilight photoperiods of 10 degrees latitude, but accelerated to a 9-mo cycle; 4) civil twilight photoperiods characteristic of 30 degrees latitude, but accelerated to a 9-mo cycle; and 5) constant photoperiod, but with the timing of dark onset varied to match the timing of darkness at 10 degrees latitude, and accelerated to a 9-mo cycle. In all treatments, the first cycle of testis growth and regression matched that expected in the wild population, as reported previously for some of these groups. Subsequently, the testis cycle of bats in constant conditions free-ran for 20 mo with a peak-to-peak period of 7.3 +/- 0.3 mo. Period lengths in the four nonconstant groups, 7.2-7.7 mo, were not significantly different from that under constant conditions. Bats failed to entrain to any photoperiod cycle, including those mimicking changes at 10 degrees or 30 degrees latitude. They also failed to entrain to the cycle in which day length was held constant while time of sunset was varied, as occurs at the equator.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Genetic parameters for yield and reproductive traits of Holstein and Jersey cattle in Florida.	Records of yield and reproduction from 4293 Holstein and 2143 Jersey first lactation cows from eight Holstein and six Jersey herds were utilized to evaluate genetic parameters for Florida, a subtropical environment. Statistical analyses were by derivative-free REML with the animal model. Genetic variances were based on variation in estimated breeding values of individual cows. Heritabilities were .27 to .43 for yields (6 estimates), .38 to .51 for constituent percentages (4 estimates), and .025 to .056 for reproduction (6 estimates), which were similar to estimates for temperature areas from similar procedures. Also, correlations of breeding values between yields were high and between yields and reproduction were low and generally antagonistic. Correlated responses in calving interval from selection for yield, with selection intensities of 1.0 to 1.5, would be expected to lead to increases of 1.0 to 5.2 d per generation (12 estimates). Thus, estimates of genetic parameters and correlated responses in this subtropical environment did not differ appreciably from those that occur in temperate dairy areas.
Analysis of the monthly incidence of cutaneous leishmaniasis in Ceará (Brazil) between 1986 and 1990]	To determine the value of an epidemiological surveillance system, we evaluated the incidence rate and trends of American Cutaneous Leishmaniasis (ACL) in three health districts of Ceara state, Brazil. We used a retrospective time series analysis of ACL notifications in Ceara state between 1986 and 1990. The trend of this endemic/epidemic disease was analysed by using three types of modeling on the moving average graph: a linear, linear periodic and non linear periodic model. The study samples consisted of the 14,615 cases of ACL notified in Ceara state between 1986 and 1990. Males accounted for 54% of cases. Age was between 1 month and 19 years in 42% of cases. Most cases (81%) were diagnosed on clinical grounds only. After calculation of the moving average and application of a linear regression model to these means, the trend analysis revealed that 1) there was a significant trend towards an increase in two of the three health districts, with correlation coefficients of 0.31 and 0.49 (Student's t test = 2.24 and 3.88) and a significant trend towards a decrease in the remaining district (correlation coefficient = 0.51, t = 4.1). The linear periodic model showed a cyclic representation with a 36-month period and a base of 241. The non linear periodic model showed a cycle of 32 months and a base of 241, and was a better representation of the disease variations. Despite the limited study period, it appears that the 32-month cycle could be attributed to meteorological conditions. Field studies are underway to determine the precise causes of this periodicity.
Habitat, density and group size of primates in a Brazilian tropical forest.	Habitats, population densities and group sizes of 5 primate species (Callithrix flaviceps, Callicebus personatus personatus, Cebus apella nigritus, Alouatta fusca clamitans, and Brachyteles arachnoides) were estimated, using the method of repeated transect sampling, in an area of montane pluvial forest in eastern Brazil (Atlantic forest). A. fusca and C. apella had the highest densities in terms of groups and individuals per square kilometer, respectively, while B. arachnoides was least abundant. The highest primate densities were observed in areas of secondary vegetation. Both group sizes and population densities for the 5 species were generally lower at the Reserva Biologica Augusto Ruschi than those reported in other areas of Atlantic forest. Hunting pressure and the different carrying capacity of the habitat are suggested as possible causes for the low number of sightings registered for these species.
Ectopic pregnancy in tropical climate. An ultrasonographic study of 93 consecutive cases]	Ectopic pregnancy (EP) is common in Cameroon, and incidence is increasing. Ultrasound (US), has been shown to play a key role in its diagnosis, particularly when the transvaginal (TV) route is used. The purpose of our work is to describe sonographic features of EP, and to assess the role of the transvaginal route in the diagnosis of this disease in our environment.
Responses of Arctic and tropical men to a standard cold test and peripheral vascular responses to local cold stress in the Arctic.	Thermoregulatory, metabolic and peripheral vascular responses to cold were studied in two groups (six each) of healthy men during exposure to the natural cold environment of the Arctic. Group A comprised of two arctic natives and four temporary residents who had migrated from the temperature zone of Russia. Group B consisted of six soldiers from a tropical region (India). Group B was airlifted to the arctic (70 degrees N, 38 degrees E). Both groups stayed in a field camp. The experiments were conducted during the 7th week of the stay. The volunteers were subjected to a standard cold test at 10 degrees C for 2 h wearing only shorts. Their heart rate, blood pressure, ventilation, oxygen consumption, oral temperature, mean skin and extremity temperatures were recorded initially and at 30 min intervals during standard cold test. The cold-induced vasodilatation response in both groups was also studied separately. The tropical natives (Group B) were flown back to Delhi and retested after 6 weeks. The physiological responses to general cold exposure as well as peripheral vascular response to local arctic cold stress were similar in both groups. The observation suggested that cold acclimatization in tropical men is similar to that of the people of Russian origin from a temperature zone.
Relative growth of the limbs and trunk in sifakas: heterochronic, ecological, and functional considerations.	Limb, trunk, and body weight measurements were obtained for growth series of Milne-Edwards's diademed sifaka, Propithecus diadema edwardsi, and the golden-crowned sifaka, Propithecus tattersalli. Similar measures were obtained also for primarily adults of two subspecies of the western sifaka: Propithecus verreauxi coquereli, Coquerel's sifaka, and Propithecus verreauxi verreauxi, Verreaux's sifaka. Ontogenetic series for the larger-bodied P. d. edwardsi and the smaller-bodied P. tattersalli were compared to evaluate whether species-level differences in body proportions result from the differential extension of common patterns of relative growth. In bivariate plots, both subspecies of P. verreauxi were included to examine whether these taxa also lie along a growth trajectory common to all sifakas. Analyses of the data indicate that postcranial proportions for sifakas are ontogenetically scaled, much as demonstrated previously with cranial dimensions for all three species (Ravosa, 1992). As such, P. d. edwardsi apparently develops larger overall size primarily by growing at a faster rate, but not for a longer duration of time, than P. tattersalli and P. verreauxi; this is similar to results based on cranial data. A consideration of Malagasy lemur ecology suggests that regional differences in forage quality and resource availability have strongly influenced the evolutionary development of body-size variation in sifakas. On one hand, the rainforest environment of P. d. edwardsi imposes greater selective pressures for larger body size than the dry-forest environment of P. tattersalli and P. v. coquereli, or the semi-arid climate of P. v. verreauxi. On the other hand, as progressively smaller-bodied adult sifakas are located in the east, west, and northwest, this apparently supports suggestions that adult body size is set by dry-season constraints on food quality and distribution (i.e., smaller taxa are located in more seasonal habitats such as the west and northeast). Moreover, the fact that body-size differentiation occurs primarily via differences in growth rate is also due apparently to differences in resource seasonality (and juvenile mortality risk in turn) between the eastern rainforest and the more temperate northeast and west. Most scaling coefficients for both arm and leg growth range from slight negative allometry to slight positive allometry. Given the low intermembral index for sifakas, which is also an adaptation for propulsive hindlimb-dominated jumping, this suggests that differences in adult limb proportions are largely set prenatally rather than being achieved via higher rates of postnatal hindlimb growth.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Latitudinal and insular variation of skull size in crab-eating macaques (primates, Cercopithecidae: Macaca fascicularis).	Macaca fascicularis is broadly distributed in Southeast Asia across 30 degrees of latitude and 35 degrees of longitude (Indochinese Peninsula, Isthmus of Kra, Malay Peninsula, Greater and Lesser Sunda Islands, Philippine Islands, and numerous small, neighboring islands). The range is divisible into 1) a core area comprised of mainland Southeast Asia, Borneo, Sumatra, and Java (large land masses interconnected during the last glacial maximum, 18,000 B.P.); 2) shallow-water fringing islands, which are smaller islands connected to the core area during the last glacial maximum; and 3) deep-water fringing islands, which are peripheral islands not connected to the core area during the last glacial maximum. Skull length was used to study effects of latitude and insularity on patterns of size variation. The data are from 802 adult M. fascicularis specimens from 140 core-area localities, 63 shallow-water islands, and 29 deep-water islands. Sex-specific polynomial regressions of skull length on latitude were used to describe skull length variation in the core area. These regressions served as standards for evaluating variation among samples from shallow-water and deep-water islands. The core area exhibits Bergmannian latitudinal size clines through most of the species range. Thus, skull length decreases from about 8 degrees S (Java) to the equator (Sumatra and Borneo), then increases as far north as about 13 degrees N (Isthmus of Kra). Farther north, to the northernmost Indochinese localities at about 17 degrees N, skull length in M. fascicularis decreases with increasing latitude, contrary to Bergmann's rule. Latitudinal size variation in shallow-water fringing islands generally parallels that in the core area. However, skull length tends to be smaller than in the core area at similar latitudes. Deep-water fringing islands are markedly more variable, with relatively small specimens in the Lesser Sunda Islands and relatively large specimens in the Nicobar Islands. These analyses illustrate how a primate species may vary in response to latitudinal temperature variation and to isolation.
Micronutrient antioxidant status in tropical compared with temperate-zone chronic pancreatitis.	Micronutrient antioxidants interact with glutathione in tissues to facilitate the disposal of reactive oxygen species and xenobiotic metabolites derived via cytochromes P450. Published evidence linking cytochrome P450I induction with chronic pancreatitis therefore led us to compare antioxidant status in patients at Manchester in the northwest of England and at Madras in the southeast of India. Serum studies in healthy volunteers showed that the biologic availabilities of selenium and alpha-tocopherol were equally high in the two zones but that the availabilities of beta-carotene and ascorbic acid were lower in the tropical area (p < 0.001), where the ratio of ascorbic acid to total vitamin C concentration in serum was substantially reduced (p < 0.001). The serum antioxidant profiles of the chronic pancreatitis groups reflected these indigenous differences: a decrement in selenium and alpha-tocopherol was evident in both zones, whereas beta-carotene and ascorbic acid values were subnormal only in the Manchester group. The concentration of inorganic sulphate in urine--an index of long-term intake of sulphur amino acids for synthesis of glutathione and other detoxifiers--was similar in controls and patients from Manchester, but levels were lower than in their Madras counterparts (p < 0.02, p < 0.01, respectively). The results suggest that culinary practices that erode the biologic availabilities of ascorbic acid and beta-carotene may predispose to pancreatic oxidative stress and thereby to the changes leading to chronic pancreatitis at an early age in south India. These findings have implications for treatment and prophylaxis.
An Australian experience of transdermal oestradiol patches in a subtropical climate.	Tolerability and efficacy of transdermal oestradiol patches were assessed in 121 menopausal women over a period of 3 months to 2.5 years. Of particular interest, in a subtropical climate such as Brisbane, were the problems associated with adhesiveness and skin irritation during the summer months. We conducted a retrospective study with self-administered questionnaires. All patients had been selected for the nonoral route because of side-effects or relative contraindications to oral therapy. There was, overall, good efficacy and acceptability. The majority of the women found the patch very adequate in relieving symptoms of the menopause (vasomotor, genitourinary and musculoskeletal). Most preferred the patch to oral therapy. The oestradiol patch was well tolerated and few side-effects were reported. Breast tenderness and weight gain were 2 minor problems associated with its use. Skin irritation was minimal, but adhesiveness was a problem during the summer months, especially with swimming or showering. Some practical suggestions were obtained about how to overcome site of application problems.
Tropical pyomyositis.	Tropical pyomyositis (TP), a suppurative disease caused predominantly by Staphylococcus aureus, is responsible for 3% to 4% of surgical admissions in some hospitals in certain tropical countries. This study describes the clinical features of 35 patients with TP (20 males, 15 females; mean +/- SD age 28.3 +/- 14.1 years) admitted to our hospital during a 1-year period and analyzes the causal association between ancylostomiasis, human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, and TP. Concerning the supposed etiologic association between Ancylostoma duodenale infection and TP, among the 35 patients with TP the stool examination of 22 (62.8%) revealed the presence of eggs of A. duodenale. In a control group of 100 asymptomatic subjects the prevalence of ancylostomiasis was 55%. The Odds ration between the two groups is 1.38 (exact 95% confidence limits = 0.59 < OR < 3.34). Furthermore, the pus from all TP abscesses (41 in 35 patients) was carefully collected and examined microscopically, but nematode larvae were not detected in any of the specimens. Hence these results do not support an association between ancylostomiasis and TP. With the aim of correlating TP with HIV infection, I carried out a case-control comparison of HIV seroprevalence among the patients affected by TP and an age- and sex-matched control group of healthy subjects. Eleven patients with TP were HIV antibody-positive (seroprevalence 31.42%), as were two controls (seroprevalence 5.71%). The matched analysis produced a Mantel-Haenszel matched Odds ratio of 5.50 and a maximum likelihood estimate of OR (MLE) of 5.50 (exact 95% confidence limits for MLE: 1.20 < OR < 51.07). Among the 11 patients HIV-seropositive, 9 (81.8%) fulfilled the World Health Organization clinical case definition (CCD) for AIDS, compared with 1 of 24 (4.1%) HIV-negative subjects. The chi-square test for difference in fulfilling the CCD for AIDS between patients with TP seropositive and seronegative result was statistically significant (p < 0.0001). It is concluded that TP is a bacterial infection highly significantly associated with HIV infection and thus must be considered a strong sign of stage III-IV of HIV disease.
Epidemiology of amebiasis and of tropical malaria]	The steady growth of intercontinental travel is causing an increasing incidence of tropical diseases in Switzerland. Malaria and amebiasis deserve special attention, due to their frequency and potential fatality. The epidemiology, clinical findings, diagnostic approach, and current treatment of malaria and amebiasis are briefly reviewed. If these infections are recognized in time and treated according to modern standards, fatal outcome is extremely rare.
Changes in vitamin-D metabolites and parathyroid hormone in plasma following cholecalciferol administration to pre- and postmenopausal women in the Netherlands in early spring and to postmenopausal women in Curaçao.	To study the effect on plasma 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (25(OH)D), 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (1,25(OH)2D) and parathyroid hormone (PTH) we supplemented premenopausal (aged 30 (SD 7) years) and postmenopausal (aged 61 (SD 2) years) white women living in The Netherlands in late winter/early spring, and elderly black and white women (aged 75 (SD 6) years) living in Curaçao (Dutch Antilles) with either 10 or 20 micrograms cholecalciferol/d for 4, 5 and 9 weeks respectively. Baseline plasma 25(OH)D concentration of Dutch women was lower than that of Curaçao women. Postmenopausal Dutch women had a higher PTH concentration in plasma than premenopausal Dutch and postmenopausal Curaçao women. There were no differences in plasma 1,25(OH)2D. Cholecalciferol administration increased 25(OH)D in all groups, 1,25(OH)2D in postmenopausal Curaçao women and PTH in postmenopausal Curaçao women and premenopausal Dutch women. Serum and urinary Ca and phosphate concentrations did not change. There were no response differences between 10 and 20 microgram doses. Oral cholecalciferol administration (either 10 or 20 micrograms/d) to women living at northern latitudes in late winter/early spring increased 25(OH)D levels to the baseline levels of elderly people living in the tropics.
Heat tolerance in two tropically adapted Bos taurus breeds, Senepol and Romosinuano, compared with Brahman, Angus, and Hereford cattle in Florida.	Two trials were conducted with heifers to determine heat tolerance among temperate Bos taurus (Angus, Hereford), Bos indicus (Brahman), tropical Bos taurus (Senepol, Romosinuano), and the reciprocal crosses of Hereford and Senepol. Differences among breeds in temperament score, circulating concentrations of cortisol, and blood packed cell volume were also investigated. Trial 1 used 43 Angus, 28 Brahman, 12 Hereford, 23 Romosinuano, 16 Senepol, 5 Hereford x Senepol (H x S), and 5 Senepol x Hereford (S x H) heifers. Trial 2 used 36 Angus, 31 Brahman, 9 Hereford, 14 Senepol, 19 H x S, and 10 S x H heifers. On the hottest summer date in Trial 1, rectal temperature of Angus was greater (P < .001) than that of Brahman, Senepol, or Romosinuano. Rectal temperature and plasma cortisol were significantly less in Senepol than in Brahman, suggesting that the differences in rectal temperature between these breeds may be due to differences in stress response possibly related to differences in temperament. Reciprocal crosses of Hereford and Senepol had rectal temperatures nearly as low as that of Senepol and displayed substantial heterosis (-9.4%, P < .05) in log10 rectal temperature on the hottest summer date. On both the hottest and coolest dates in Trial 1, Angus heifers had significantly faster respiration rates than Brahman, Romosinuano, or Senepol heifers, and Brahman had significantly slower respiration rates than Romosinuano or Senepol. On the hottest summer date in Trial 2, rectal temperature in Angus heifers was greater (P < .001) than in Brahman or Senepol had rectal temperatures similar to that of Senepol, or heterosis for log10 rectal temperature was similar to that in Trial 1 (-9.8%, P < .05). Considering rank order among breeds, Brahman always had the slowest respiration rate and greatest packed cell volume. Brahman had significantly greater temperament scores and plasma cortisol concentrations than Angus or Senepol, except that plasma cortisol was not different between Brahman and Senepol on the hottest summer date. On this date, rectal temperature did not differ between Brahman and Senepol, which supports the hypothesis that there is a relationship between response to stress and rectal temperature that helps explain differences in rectal temperature between Brahman and Senepol. The results of these trials demonstrate heat tolerance of the Senepol and Romosinuano, two Bos taurus breeds. Furthermore, the results suggest a substantial level of dominance of the Senepol's ability to maintain constant body temperature in a hot environment as measured by rectal temperature in crosses with a non-adapted breed.
Clinical stage, age and treatment in tropical pyomyositis: a retrospective study including forty cases.	A comparative and retrospective trial of 40 patients with tropical pyomyositis covering studies done between January 1, 1987 and November 31, 1990, at the General Hospital at Cosamaloapan, Veracruz, IMSS, was undertaken. The objectives were to compare predisposing factors, clinical data, morbidity, mortaity and hospital stay among 1) medical (group I) and surgical treatment (II), 2) adult and pediatric populations and 3) the clinical stage of the disease (invasive, suppurative and late). In group I, the family history of diabetes (56%), fever (66%) and hospital stay (6.5 +/- 1.8 days) were significantly different from group II (19%, 100% and 12.8 +/- 5.5 days), respectively. The mean age in adult and pediatric populations was 38 and 8 years, respectively. Pediatric patients had lowest hemoglobin levels (9.7 +/- 1.3). Upper respiratory antecedent was highest in suppurative stage (65%). In the late stage eosinophilia (5.9 +/- 6.9), fluctuance muscles (100%), complication rate of 57%, surgical drainage (100%) and mortality of 29% were found. Cultures were performed in 20 cases with negative results in 55% and the remaining 45% were positive to Staphylococcus aureus. Pyomyositis appears to be multifactorial in origin, the antecedents of trauma and upper respiratory infection were the major predisposing factors. Septicemia caused high morbidity and mortality in the late stage. Surgical treatment was frequently needed, increasing costs.
The epidemiology and prophylaxis of hepatitis B in sub-Saharan Africa: a view from tropical and subtropical Africa.	There are approximately 50 million chronic carriers of hepatitis B virus (HBV) in Africa, with a 25% mortality risk. In sub-Saharan Africa, carrier rates range from 9-20%. Many studies have suggested that HBV transmission in Africa occurs predominantly in childhood, by the horizontal rather than the perinatal route. The exact mode of transmission is uncertain but probably involves percutaneous infection through saliva or traces of blood, as well through unsterile needles, tribal scarification, and other possible vehicles. Compared with adult HBsAg carriers in the Far East, those in Africa have a low rate of HBeAg positivity, which may account for the relatively low rates of perinatal infection. It is also possible that African infants are less susceptible to perinatal HBV infection compared with their Asian counterparts. Alternatively, it may be that African infants are indeed infected with HBV at birth but, for genetically determined reasons, have persistently negative tests for a number of years until the virus is reactivated. In view of the high HBV carrier rates in the general population, universal immunisation of all infants is recommended. Ways of incorporating the hepatitis B vaccine into the Expanded Programme on Immunisation in each country are being evaluated.
Strategy of preservation and use of biological resources in China]	The current state of biological resources of China is characterized by the example of animal world resources. Dynamics of the protected territories, control over the world trade of animals, and methods of protection of animals in situ and ex situ are described.
Rubber contact dermatitis in patients attended at Walter Cantídio Hospital, Federal University of Ceará, Brasil.	Nowadays 70% of the world's rubber supply is synthesized artificially. The process involved in its manufacture is vulcanization which requires many chemical substances for speeding the process, as antioxidants to prevent deterioration of rubber, or others. These substances may constitute important sensitizers and thus be responsible for dermatological diseases like contact dermatitis. The objective of this study is to search for the main sensitizers among these rubber chemicals in a population mostly composed by women of a tropical country and compare the results with the ones obtained from previous studies which tested populations mainly composed by men and on different climates.
Comparison of three ELISA tests for seroepidemiology of bovine fascioliosis.	The aim of the present study was to compare the sensitivity, specificity and usefulness of the DIG-ELISA, DOT-ELISA and Indirect ELISA tests for determining the seroprevalence of fasciolosis in cattle under tropical conditions in Mexico. To standardize the tests, positive and negative sera to F. hepatica from 88 Holstein Freisian adult cows located in an enzootic area of fascioliosis and 88 crossbred adult cattle from a fluke-free area were used. For the epidemiological study, 85 crossbred cattle between 1 to 7 years of age were used. Animals were bled every two months, from March 1995 to September 1996 and the sera obtained were stored at -70 degrees C, until used. Indirect ELISA showed a sensitivity of 96.5% and a specificity of 98.8%, DIG-ELISA 97.5% and 80.0% and DOT-ELISA 93.1% and 95.4%, respectively. During 1995, Indirect ELISA yielded the highest levels of IgG anti-F. hepatica antibodies. However, in 1996, after animal treatment with triclabendazole, DIG-ELISA tended to show higher percentages of antibody-positive animals, but it was not significantly different (p>0.05) from the other tests. Comparisons made in parallel to the faecal sedimentation test demonstrated that all serological tests detected higher percentages of positive animals. Only one serum out of ten (10%) of Paramphistomum spp. cross-reacted with the DOT-ELISA test, but no cross-reaction was observed with sera from animals with other parasites. All ELISA tests were highly sensitive and specific; they may be recommended for use in seroepidemiological surveys for F. hepatica.
Resistance of Galla and Small East African goats in the sub-humid tropics to gastrointestinal nematode infections and the peri-parturient rise in faecal egg counts.	A study was carried out from 1994 to 1996 to compare the resistance to naturally acquired gastrointestinal (GI) nematode infections (predominantly Haemonchus contortus) of 88 Galla and 114 Small East African (SEA) goats (does) in the sub-humid coastal region of Kenya. Live weights (LWT), blood packed cell volume (PCV) and faecal egg counts (FEC) were recorded each year at mating, 3-4 months after mating, 1-2 weeks before kidding and 1-4 months after kidding. There was a significant increase in FEC and a decline in PCV in lactating does compared to non-lactating does over the peri-parturient period. This peri-parturient rise in FEC occurred in both breeds but was more marked and persistent in the Galla than in the SEA. The SEA does were more resistant to GI nematode infections than Galla does as shown by their significantly lower FEC and higher PCV at all sampling times over the reproductive cycle, but this breed difference was particularly marked over the lactation period.
Development and survival of infective larvae of nematode parasites of sheep on pasture in a cool tropical environment.	The development and survival of nematode parasites of sheep were studied in a cool tropical environment of the highlands of Ethiopia on 24 plots serially contaminated with Haemonchus contortus, Longistrongylus elongata and Trichostrongylus colubriformis eggs over a period of 2 consecutive years from June 1993 to May 1995. The availability of infective larvae was monitored by monthly pasture sampling and larvae recovery. Infective larvae were recovered from the herbage collected from the plots contaminated in June, July, August, September and October of both years. The longevity of infective larvae varied between two and six weeks when eggs were deposited on pasture in June and October, respectively. During the dry and short rainy season (November through May), eggs failed to develop into L3 stage. It is suggested that the long period (7 to 8 months) of lack of development of trichostrongylid infective larvae on the pasture can be efficiently used in a strategic treatment programme to interrupt transmission of H. contortus, L. elongata and T. colubriformis in sheep in this environment.
Venomous stings in the tropical world: bite and sting accident by a bumblebee swarm in a rainy Venezuelan forest]	Two cases of poisoning produced by the unusual attack of colonies of insects from the family Bombidae, commonly known as bumblebees, are described. This type of poisoning may become severe toxicity and it is analyzed in the light of the latest findings. It is characterized by hemorrhagical symptoms, such as hematemesis and melaena.
Respiratory symptoms and lung function in aborigines from tropical Western Australia.	To estimate the prevalence of respiratory symptoms, bronchial hyperresponsiveness, smoking, and atopy in a population of Australians of Aboriginal descent (AAD), to determine the association of these and other factors with lung function, and to compare levels of lung function of AAD with Australians of European descent (AED) according to age and height, and to explore reasons for their differences, we conducted a study of 96 male (41 of whom were under 18 yr of age) and 111 female (48 of whom were under 18 yr of age) AAD living in a single remote tropical community in 1993. This population provided data on age, height, and lung function. A modified British Medical Research Council (MRC) questionnaire on respiratory symptoms and smoking was administered. FEV1, FVC, height, age, and bronchial responsiveness to inhaled methacholine were measured. Atopic status was assessed by skin prick tests for eight common allergens. Age- and sex-adjusted lung function was similar to that of other AAD groups and lower than in AED. For children, lung function increased less with increasing height in AAD than in AED. Lung function was reduced in adult AAD as compared with adult AED, although it was not possible to determine statistically whether lung function started to decline at an earlier age or declined faster with increasing age in AAD. A history of asthma, smoking, dyspnea, cough, or sputum production; atopic status; and increased bronchial responsiveness were all associated with lower levels of lung function. Differences in lung function between AAD and AED appear to be determined by characteristics that may be inherited, as well as by adverse external influences.
The use of an in vitro cellulase enzyme technique for predicting the digestibility of tropical feeds and fodders.	An attempt has been made to find out if the organic matter digestibility of tropical feeds and fodders can be predicted from the results of an in vitro cellulase enzyme technique. The in vivo digestibility coefficient of 27 tropical feeds and fodders was determined in wethers. The enzyme insoluble organic matter content of these feeds was determined using a cellulase enzyme technique. The indigestible OM (g/kg feed DM) in vivo (y) was plotted against enzyme insoluble organic matter (g/kg DM) (x). The equation is y = 60 + 0.817x, R2 = 0.95; RSD = 32 g/kg DM. Equations for predicting DOM (g/kg DM) and digestibility of OM (%) are calculated. The testing of the equation on an independent data base of 40 individual feeds and fodders showed that the validity of the equation is fairly general.
Adult susceptibility to varicella in the tropics is a rural phenomenon due to the lack of previous exposure.	In the industrialized countries of the West, varicella is largely a childhood disease, whereas reports from tropical countries indicate a significant incidence of varicella among adults. High ambient temperature, epidemiologic interference from other viruses, and race have been blamed. We tested our hypothesis that less exposure to varicella-zoster virus (VZV) during childhood in rural areas accounts for the reported greater frequency of varicella in adults in tropical climates by comparing rates of VZV seropositivity among urban and rural adult Bengalee populations living in identical climatic conditions in India. Only 5 (3.4%) of 153 urban adults were seronegative compared with 74 (31.1%) of 246 rural adults. Ninety-six percent of urban adults were immune by the age of 25, compared with 42% in the rural group. The results suggest that higher adult susceptibility to varicella is seen only in rural areas of the Tropics and is due to reduced transmission of VZV.
HIV enteropathy: comparative morphometry of the jejunal mucosa of HIV infected patients resident in the United Kingdom and Uganda.	To compare jejunal mucosal morphometry in HIV infected patients resident in London and Uganda.
