Indium-111-radiolabeled guinea pig peripheral leukocytes. In vivo distribution and response to leukotriene B4.	The preparation of indium-111 tropolonate-radiolabeled guinea pig peripheral mixed white cells (greater than 80% neutrophils) is described. Autologous rather than homologous cells are required to provide a population of labeled, functional cells on reintroduction to the animals. Surgery has been shown to result in a profound neutropenia from which the animals must recover before removal of blood for cell preparation. The response of radiolabeled cells parallels that of the unlabeled cell population to a chemotaxin, leukotriene B4. This material causes a profound neutropenia of rapid onset accompanied by a parallel fall in blood radioactivity. The fall in circulating radiolabel is accompanied by an increase in radioactivity in the thoracic region. These changes have been monitored externally using an automated isotope monitoring system.
The comparison of 8-hydroxyquinoline, tropolone, and acetylacetone as mediators in the labelling of polymorphonuclear leucocytes with indium-111: a functional study.	Tropolone forms a lipophilic complex with indium-111 which is capable of mediating the labelling of polymorphonuclear leucocytes (PMNs) by this isotope; labelling efficiencies are comparable with the best achieved using 8-hydroxyquinoline and acetylacetone. However, in terms of PMN chemotaxis and phagocytosis, tropolone is significantly less toxic than either of te other ligands. 8-Hydroxyquinoline was found to reduce PMN chemotaxis and phagocytosis to approximately 70% of the control values at a concentration of 20 micro M. Tropolone may prove a superior labelling reagent.
Tropolone: a lipid solubilizing agent for cationic metals.	Lipid soluble agents which chelate radioactive cations have several potential uses in nuclear medicine including: brain imaging, labeling of blood elements, and identifying fatty infiltration of organs. A tropolone-gallium complex has been characterized by the determination of in vitro partition ratios correlated with in vivo organ distribution in the rat. Partition ratios were determined for gallium-67 citrate, indium-114m chloride, and iron-59 chloride cations complexed with tropolone in chloroform + water, octanol + water, olive oil + water, and olive oil + plasma two-phased systems. Tropolone proved to be highly effective in the lipid solubilization of these metal cations. Distribution studies in animals of these cations complexed with tropolone demonstrated an increased concentration of these cation complexes in tissues of high lipid content when compared with appropriate controls.
Redistribution of granulocytes in patients after major surgical stress.	Major surgery induces a stress response characterized by granulocytosis in peripheral blood, and increased secretion of adrenaline and cortisol. The purpose of this study was to investigate the redistribution of granulocytes in response to major surgical stress. Granulocytes were isolated from eight surgical patients and eight healthy volunteers, labelled with Indium-111-tropolone, and reinjected. The distribution of granulocytes was imaged with a gamma camera and calculated by an interfaced computer before surgery and at 2, 4 and 6 h after the end of surgery. The volunteers served as a control group. In the hours after surgery the radioactivity of the area around the surgical field increased to 410.7% of initial values, while the radioactivity of the spleen decreased to 77.5%. In conclusion, the spleen constitutes a readily mobilizable source of granulocytes. This in vivo model demonstrates pronounced postoperative efflux of granulocytes to the area around the surgical field within hours.
