Giardia lamblia: the effects of extracts and fractions from Mentha x piperita Lin. (Lamiaceae) on trophozoites.	Giardia lamblia is a parasite that causes giardiasis in humans and other mammals. The common treatment includes different classes of drugs, which were described to produce unpleasant side effects. Mentha x piperita, popularly known as peppermint, is a plant that is frequently used in the popular medicine to treat gastrointestinal symptoms. We examined the effects of crude extracts and fractions from peppermint against G. lamblia (ATCC 30888) on the basis of trophozoite growth, morphology and adherence studies. The methanolic, dichloromethane and hexanic extracts presented IC(50) values of 0.8, 2.5 and 9.0microg/ml after 48h of incubation, respectively. The aqueous extract showed no effect against the trophozoites with an IC(50)>100microg/ml. The aqueous fraction presented a moderate activity with an IC(50) of 45.5microg/ml. The dichloromethane fraction showed the best antigiardial activity, with an IC(50) of 0.75microg/ml after 48h of incubation. The morphological and adhesion assays showed that this fraction caused several alterations on plasma membrane surface of the parasite and inhibited the adhesion of G. lamblia trophozoites. Cytotoxic assays showed that Mentha x piperita presented no toxic effects on the intestinal cell line IEC-6. Our results demonstrated antigiardial activity of Mentha x piperita, indicating its potential value as therapeutic agent against G. lamblia infections.
Effect of caspofungin on trophozoites and cysts of three species of Acanthamoeba.	Amoebic keratitis is difficult to treat, without total efficacy in some patients because of cysts that are less susceptible than trophozoites to the usual treatments. We investigated here the in vitro effectiveness of caspofungin, a new antifungal, against three species of Acanthamoeba.
Effects of human serum on Balamuthia mandrillaris interactions with human brain microvascular endothelial cells.	Balamuthia mandrillaris is a free-living amoeba and a causative agent of fatal granulomatous encephalitis. In the transmission of B. mandrillaris into the central nervous system (CNS), haematogenous spread is thought to be the primary step, followed by blood-brain barrier penetration. The objectives of the present study were (i) to determine the effects of serum from healthy individuals on the viability of B. mandrillaris, and (ii) to determine the effects of serum on B. mandrillaris-mediated blood-brain barrier perturbations. It was determined that normal human serum exhibited limited amoebicidal effects, i.e. approximately 40 % of trophozoites were killed. The residual subpopulation, although viable, remained static over longer incubations. Using human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMEC), which form the blood-brain barrier, it was observed that B. mandrillaris exhibited binding (>80 %) and cytotoxicity (>70 %) to HBMEC. However, normal human serum exhibited more than 60 % inhibition of B. mandrillaris binding and cytotoxicity to HBMEC. ELISAs showed that both serum and saliva samples exhibit the presence of anti-B. mandrillaris antibodies. Western blots revealed that normal human serum reacted with several B. mandrillaris antigens with approximate molecular masses of 148, 115, 82, 67, 60, 56, 44, 42, 40 and 37 kDa. Overall, the results demonstrated that normal human serum has inhibitory effects on B. mandrillaris growth and viability, as well as on their binding and subsequent cytotoxicity to HBMEC. A complete understanding of B. mandrillaris pathogenesis is crucial to develop therapeutic interventions and/or to design preventative measures.
The injury of metronidazole on morphology of Giardia lamblia in vitro]	Trophozoites of Giardia lamblia were axenically cultivated with modified TYI-S-33 medium contained 500 microg/ml metronidazole (12h LC50). The morphology of drug-treated trophozoites was observed with light and electron micro-scopes at 2, 4, 8, 12 h respectively. The light microscopy revealed that the trophozoites treated with MTZ showed swollen, detached from the wall of the culture tube, and were with vacuoles in the cytoplasm. Movement of the flagella become slowly or stopped. Electronic microscopy showed that the trophozoites were swollen and deformed; lots of vacuoles were seen in the cytoplasm; the contents of cytoplasm were depleted and the nuclei deformed. This study indicated that MTZ has injured the morphology of G. lamblia.
Effects of essential oils on the growth of Giardia lamblia trophozoites.	Giardia lamblia is one of the most important worldwide causes of intestinal infections produced by protozoa. Current therapy for giardiasis is unsatisfactory due to high incidence of undesirable side effects and significant failure in clearing parasites from the gastrointestinal tract. In the search for new therapeutic agents, we report on the effect of several essential oils on G. lamblia growth. Among eighteen tested essential oils, those with phenolic compositions were the most active, particularly if containing high contents of carvacrol, such as Thymbra capitata and Origanum virens (IC50 values of 71 and 85 microg x mL(-1), respectively). The oils from Syzygium aromaticum and Thymus zygis subsp. sylvestris (IC50 values from 100 to 200 microg x mL(-1)), as well as, those from Mentha x piperita and Lippia graveolens (IC50 values over 200 microg x mL(-1)) were less active. Results support the concept that several essential oils or some of their constituents may be useful in the clinical management of Giardia infections.
Comparison of protein-free defined media, and effect of L-cysteine and ascorbic acid supplementation on viability of axenic Entamoeba histolytica.	Entamoeba histolytica is the etiologic agent for amoebiasis. The excretory-secretory (ES) products of the trophozoites contain virulence factors and antigens useful for diagnostic applications. Contaminants from serum supplements and dead trophozoites impede analysis of ES. Therefore, a protein-free medium that can sustain maximum viability of E. histolytica trophozoites for the longest time duration will enable collection of contaminant-free and higher yield of ES products. In the present study, we compared the efficacy of four types of media in maintaining ≥ 95% trophozoite viability namely Roswell Memorial Park Institute (RPMI-1640), Dulbecco's Modified Eagle Medium (DMEM), phosphate-buffered saline for amoeba (PBS-A), and Hank's balanced salt solution (HBSS). Concurrently, the effect of adding L: -cysteine and ascorbic acid (C&A) to each medium on the parasite viability was also compared. DMEM and RPMI 1640 showed higher viabilities as compared to PBS-A and HBSS. Only RPMI 1640 showed no statistical difference with the control medium for the first 4 h, however the ≥ 95% viability was only maintained for the first 2 h. The other protein-free media showed differences from the serum- and vitamin-free TYI-S-33 control media even after 1 h of incubation. When supplemented with C&A, all media were found to sustain higher trophozoite viabilities than those without the supplements. HBSS-C&A, DMEM-C&A, and RPMI 1640-C&A demonstrated no difference (P>0.05) in parasite viabilities when compared with the control medium throughout the 8-h incubation period. DMEM-C&A showed an eightfold increment in time duration of sustaining ≥ 95% parasite viability, i.e. 8 h, as compared to DMEM alone. Both RPMI 1640-C&A and HBSS-C&A revealed fourfold and threefold increments (i.e., 8 and 6 h, respectively), whereas PBS-A-C&A showed only one fold improvement (i.e., 2 h) as compared to the respective media without C&A. Thus, C&A-supplemented DMEM or RPMI are recommended for collection of ES products.
Determination of chemical profile, antioxidant, DNA damage protection and antiamoebic activities of Teucrium polium and Stachys iberica.	This work deals with the evaluation of in vitro antioxidant, DNA preventing and antiamoebic activities of the water extracts of Teucrium polium and Stachys iberica. In all systems, T. polium extract exhibited excellent activity potential than that of S. iberica. The amount of total phenolics and flavonoids were high in this extract. In the presence of 40 mg/ml T. polium extract, a significant protection was observed for native super coiled DNA of pBR322 plasmid DNA. In the presence of 32 mg/ml of T. polium extract, no trophozoite was after the 24th hour.
Synergic effect of metronidazole and pyrantel pamoate on Giardia lamblia.	Giardia lamblia is a pathogenic protozoan presenting as the main characteristic, the trophozoite capacity to adhere in host intestinal epithelium, infecting mammals, including humans. The clinical treatment of this disease is based on metronidazole (Mz) that acts as an alternative electron acceptor, and its reduction promotes DNA impairment. In veterinary treatment, one of the best options is pyrantel pamoate (Pm), which the mode of action has not elucidated yet. Different strategies for Giardia treatment have been explored to avoid side effects to the host. In this context, the efficiency of treatment combining drugs raise as an interesting alternative for protozoan diseases. Here, we evaluated in vitro synergic effect of Mz and Pm on trophozoites and on its adherence to IEC-6 cells. The treatment with Mz or Pm was effective on trophozoites, with IC(50)/24h values of 5.3±0.9 μM and 13.8±1.4 μM, respectively. The treatment of trophozoites with different combinations of Mz and Pm were also evaluated, as showed by fractional inhibitory concentration index (FICI) under 0.5 in all conditions tested, corresponding to the synergic effect. This synergic activity was also observed when the combinations of 5.3 μM Mz+0.4 μM Pm and 13.8 μM Pm+0.1 μM Mz induced a remarkable reduction in % adhesion (85-90% and 52-59%, respectively) and in number of adhered parasites per 100 cells. The low cytotoxicity to the host cells of the combinations, associated to the strong synergic potential of the combination, encourage us to further investigate its effect in in vivo models.
High-throughput Giardia lamblia viability assay using bioluminescent ATP content measurements.	The human pathogen Giardia lamblia is an anaerobic protozoan parasite that causes giardiasis, one of the most common diarrheal diseases worldwide. Although several drugs are available for the treatment of giardiasis, drug resistance has been reported and is likely to increase, and recurrent infections are common. The search for new drugs that can overcome the drug-resistant strains of Giardia is an unmet medical need. New drug screen methods can facilitate the drug discovery process and aid with the identification of new drug targets. Using a bioluminescent ATP content assay, we have developed a phenotypic drug screen method to identify compounds that act against the actively growing trophozoite stage of the parasite. This assay is homogeneous, robust, and suitable for high-throughput screening of large compound collections. A screen of 4,096 pharmacologically active small molecules and approved drugs revealed 43 compounds with selective anti-Giardia properties, including 32 previously reported and 11 novel anti-Giardia agents. The most potent novel compound was fumagillin, which showed 50% inhibitory concentrations of 10 nM against the WB isolate and 2 nM against the GS isolate.
Balamuthia mandrillaris: staining properties of cysts and trophozoites and the effect of 2,6-dichlorobenzonitrile and calcofluor white on encystment.	Here, we determined the staining properties of Balamuthia mandrillaris cysts, and assessed the effect of 2, 6-dichlorobenzonitrile (DCB), a cellulose synthesis inhibitor, and calcofluor white, a brightening agent, on its encystment. Periodic acid-Schiff reagent stained the inner wall intensely and middle and outer walls weakly suggesting that the cyst wall of B. mandrillaris may contain glycans. Furthermore, cysts, but not trophozoites, fluoresced when stained with calcofluor white. Calcofluor white and DCB, a cellulose synthesis inhibitor, inhibited B. mandrillaris encystment. This is the first report suggesting possible glycan biosynthesis in B. mandrillaris encystment, and this pathwaymay provide a potentially useful drug target and help improve treatment.
In vitro amoebicidal activities of Satureja cuneifolia and Melissa officinalis on Acanthamoeba castellanii cysts and trophozoites.	Amoebic keratitis is difficult to treat without total efficacy in some patients because of cysts, which are less susceptible than trophozoites to the usual treatments. The aim of this study is to evaluate the in vitro amoebicidal activity of the methanolic extracts of Satureja cuneifolia and Melissa officinalis. In the presence of methanolic extracts (ranging from 1.0 to 32.0 mg/ml), numbers of the viable Acanthamoe castellanii trophozoites and cysts were decreased during the experimental process. Both extracts showed a time- and dose-dependent amoebicidal action on the trophozoites and cysts. Among the extracts tested, S. cuneifolia showed the strongest amoebicidal effect on the trophozoites and cysts. In the presence of 32 mg/ml extract, no viable trophozoites were observed within 24 h. At the same concentration value, the extract was found effective against the cysts at a rate of 46.3% within 72 h of the experimental process. At 16 mg/ml extract concentration, no viable trophozoites were also observed in the 24th hour of the experiment. At the end of the experimental process, 34.7% of the cysts were killed by the extract. M. officinalis showed moderate amoebicidal effect. At the concentration of 32 mg/ml, 44.3% and 30.0% of the trophozoites and cysts were killed by the extract, respectively. Results obtained from these concentration values were found statistically different in terms of their actions both on trophozoites and cysts (p<0.05).
Biocidal efficacy of monochloramine against planktonic and biofilm-associated Naegleria fowleri cells.	Free-living amoebae (FLA) in aqueous systems are a problem for water network managers and health authorities because some are pathogenic, such as Naegleria fowleri, and they have also been reported to operate as reservoirs and vectors of several pathogenic bacteria. Therefore, to better control the occurrence of such amoebae, we evaluate the efficacy of monochloramine against planktonic forms (trophozoites and cysts) and also biofilm-associated cells of N. fowleri as FLA are often associated with biofilms.
Cytotoxic effect of organic solvents and surfactant agents on Acanthamoeba castellanii cysts.	Acanthamoeba castellanii is a protozoan parasite that may cause sight-threatening keratitis in some individuals. Its eradication is difficult because the trophozoites encyst making organisms highly resistant to anti-amoebic drugs. To test new anti-Acanthamoeba agents, usually having low water solubility, organic solvents and surfactant agents should be used. Therefore, the lethal effect of different concentrations of the solvents acetone, methanol, ethanol, and DMSO and surfactant agents Tween 20, Tween 80, and Triton X-100 was tested. The minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) were determined against Acanthamoeba cysts. Results of the present study showed that the MIC for ethanol, methanol, acetone and DMSO was 25, 12.5, 12.5, and 10%, respectively and for Tween 20, Tween 80, and Triton X-100 was 0.25, 0.06, and 0.03%, respectively. There was no significant inhibitory effect on the multiplication of Acanthamoeba cysts as compared to parasite control when using the concentrations 3.12% for ethanol, 1.6% for methanol and acetone, 1.25% for DMSO, and 0.016% for Tween 20. On the other hand, both Tween 80 and Triton X-100 showed highly significant difference in comparison to parasite control almost among all the range of concentrations used in this study, and both showed lethal effect of 19 and 27.2%, respectively at their least concentration.
