Interaction of bovine chorioallantoic membrane explants with three strains of Brucella abortus.	Chorioallantoic membrane (CAM) explants were used to determine the in vitro growth and cytotoxic potential of 3 strains of Brucella abortus. Bovine CAM explants were inoculated with 2 x 10(7) colony-forming units of the pathogenic strain 2308, attenuated strain 19, or the rough strain RB51 of B abortus. After inoculation, the explants were harvested and examined at 2 or 4 hours, 12 or 14 hours, and 24 or 26 hours of incubation. Bacterial growth associated with each explant was determined by counting colony-forming units. The degree of cellular damage in each explant associated either with bacterial growth or bacterial toxins was evaluated by morphometric analysis after trypan blue staining. Significant differences were not detected in the numbers of bacteria of any strain of B abortus in the CAM explants at comparable time intervals. The rate of growth of the bacteria in CAM explants was higher between 2 and 12 hours after inoculation than between 12 and 24 hours after inoculation. Cytotoxic effects associated with strain 2308 were significantly (P less than 0.05) greater than that caused by other strains. Cytotoxic effects associated with strain 19 and rough strain RB51 were similar, and both were significantly (P less than 0.05) greater than the phosphate buffer solution control. Chorioallantoic membrane explants inoculated with a filtrate of heat-killed strain 2308 induced minimal cellular damage, compared with that caused by the viable bacteria. These results indicated that the number of B abortus in trophoblasts was independent of the degree of cellular damage.
Human transformed trophoblast-derived cells lacking CD4 receptor exhibit restricted permissiveness for human immunodeficiency virus type 1.	We investigated the nature of interaction of the malignantly transformed cell lines of trophoblast origin BeWo, JAR, and JEG-3 with three different human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) isolates (RF, 3B, and NDK). After inoculation with cell-free virus, the persistence of infection was determined for 1 month by monitoring the presence of viral DNA in the cells by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Furthermore, the infectious virus in the culture supernatant was assayed with CEM-SS cells, and attempts to rescue the virus by cocultivation with CEM-SS cells were made. Appraised on the basis of the relative amount of viral DNA and the frequency of positive cocultivation. JEG-3 was the most permissive and BeWo was the least permissive cell line. However, when the cells were transfected with two biologically active molecular clones of HIV-1, the BRU and NDK isolates, all three cell lines turned out to support the production of mature virus progeny to the same extent. The abundance of viral DNA sequences in the infected cells varied with the isolate, showing an overall decline from RF to NDK. The amount of viral DNA in the cells and its expression decreased during the period of observation; this decrease was mirrored in an erosion of the virus recovery rate at cocultivation from 71% recovery on day 8 to failure of isolation on day 32. None of the cell lines expressed detectable amounts of cell surface CD4 molecules when assayed by flow microfluorometry and direct radioimmunoassay. Northern (RNA) blot hybridization analysis of both the total RNA and the mRNA did not reveal any CD4-specific message: nonetheless, by using the PCR, sequences specifically related to the CD4 gene were uncovered. The data demonstrate that the trophoblast-derived cell lines are susceptible to infection with HIV and that they support transient viral replication in the initial phases of infection. However, the latent form of infection may persist over a period of several weeks.
Cell-mediated infection of human placental trophoblast with HIV in vitro.	In order to investigate how human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) gains entry to the placenta, we have performed in vitro experiments in which highly purified trophoblast cells isolated from term human placentas were examined for their susceptibility to HIV infection. Trophoblast cells were exposed to cell-free HIV-1 for up to 24 h, after which the cultures were monitored by p24 antigen capture assay, reverse transcriptase assay, and electron microscopy for evidence of virus uptake and replication. None was found. In the second series of experiments, trophoblast cells were cocultured with HIV-infected MOLT-4 cells for 24 h, stained using an anti-HIV antibody, and examined by immunofluorescence microscopy. The MOLT cells were strongly positive, as expected, but many trophoblast colonies also showed a punctate staining pattern. Examination of similar cultures using the electron microscope revealed MOLT cells adherent to trophoblast but no evidence of cell-cell fusion. Virions were observed in coated pits at the trophoblast cell surface and in endosomes or multivesicular bodies in the cytoplasm. These observations are consistent with an endocytosis-mediated mechanism of virus entry. Virions were also observed budding from the trophoblast plasma membrane, indicating that these cells can support HIV replication. To our knowledge, these results show for the first time that HIV can infect placental trophoblast cells in vitro. The results suggest that the placenta could become infected with HIV by the interaction of virus-infected maternal lymphocytes with syncytiotrophoblast bordering the maternal blood in the intervillous space.
