Topography and mechanical properties of single molecules of type I collagen using atomic force microscopy.	Although the mechanical behavior of tendon and bone has been studied for decades, there is still relatively little understanding of the molecular basis for their specific properties. Thus, despite consisting structurally of the same type I collagen, bones and tendons have evolved to fulfill quite different functions in living organisms. In an attempt to understand the links between the mechanical properties of these collageneous structures at the macro- and nanoscale, we studied trimeric type I tropocollagen molecules by atomic force microscopy, both topologically and by force spectroscopy. High-resolution imaging demonstrated a mean (+/- SD) contour length of (287 +/- 35) nm and height of (0.21 +/- 0.03) nm. Submolecular features, namely the coil-pitch of the molecule, were also observed, appearing as a repeat pattern along the length of the molecule, with a length of approximately 8 nm that is comparable to the theoretical value. Using force spectroscopy, we established the stretching pattern of the molecule, where both the mechanical response of the molecule and pull-off peak are convoluted in a single feature. By interpreting this response with a wormlike chain model, we extracted the value of the effective contour length of the molecule at (202 +/- 5) nm. This value was smaller than that given by direct measurement, suggesting that the entire molecule was not being stretched during the force measurements; this is likely to be related to the absence of covalent binding between probe, sample, and substrate in our experimental procedure.
An analysis of the effects of temperature and structural arrangements on the thermal conductivity and thermal diffusivity of tropocollagen-hydroxyapatite interfaces.	The ability of a biomaterial to transport energy by conduction is best characterized in the steady state by its thermal conductivity and in the non-steady state by its thermal diffusivity. The complex hierarchical structure of most biomaterials makes the direct determination of the thermal diffusivity and thermal conductivity difficult using experimental methods. This study presents a classical molecular simulation based approach for the thermal diffusivity and thermal conductivity prediction for a set of tropocollagen and hydroxyapatite based idealized biomaterial interfaces. The thermal diffusivity and thermal conductivity values are calculated using the presented approach at three different temperatures (300 K, 500 K and 700 K). The effects of temperature, structural arrangements, and size of simulated systems on the thermal properties are analyzed. Analyses point out important role played by the interface orientation, interface area, and structural hierarchy. Ensuing discussions establish that the interface structural arrangement and interface orientation combined with biomimetic structural hierarchy can lead to non-intuitive thermal property variations as a function of structural features.
