New approach to standardisation of human cardiac troponin I (cTnI).	Six different cTnI assays (5 commercial and one assay under development) were run with either their own calibrators or with standard dilutions of different forms of cTnI (free or complexed). Twenty-one serum samples from 7 AMI patients were analysed using these combinations of calibrators and assay constructs. The range of cTnI concentrations as measured in AMI serum samples by different assays was more than 10-fold using each assays own standards or when using free native or recombinant cTnI. With recombinant or in vitro formed ternary cTnI-cTnT-TnC complexes the differences were smaller (3-fold). The lowest between-manufacturer bias (1.4-fold) was obtained when the heart tissue derived native troponin complex was used for the calibration of the assays. For all assays, calibrated against this troponin I complex, the recalculated cut-off values were within 0.1-0.25 microgram/L. We conclude that to reduce assay-to-assay variation, native troponin complex is presently the preferred alternative for the standardisation of cTnI assays.
Time-course of cardiac troponin I release from isolated perfused rat hearts during hypoxia/reoxygenation and ischemia/reperfusion.	The study was designed to determine the time-course of cardiac troponin I (cTn-I) release in isolated and Langendorff-perfused rat hearts during hypoxia and reoxygenation (H/Reox), and after various durations of total ischemia and subsequent reperfusion (I/R). For this purpose, in H/Reox, cTn-I was measured with the conventional Access immunoassay (ng/ml) and a new immunoassay which operates at pg/ml, and compared with creatine kinase (CK), lactate dehydrogenase (LD) and cardiac troponin T (cTn-T). In I/R, cTn-I was compared with CK and LD. The anti-Tn-I mAbs used in cTn-I assays cross-react with cTn-I of the rat. A clear difference between time-courses and concentration levels of cTn-I in I/R and H/Reox models was found. In I/R, maximum release of cTn-I, CK and LD similarly occurred within minutes following reperfusion; however cTn-I did not return to baseline values. cTn-I levels were not linked to the duration of ischemia. In I/R, we were only able to detect small cTn-I concentrations. In H/Reox experiments, cTn-I, CK and LD increased time-dependently. We found higher cTn-I maximal peak levels detected with the Access immunoassay than with the new assay (median, 0.346 ng/ml per min/g dry wt vs 132 pg/ml per min/g dry wt). cTn-T maximal concentrations were lower than maximal cTn-I levels (median, 0.117 ng/ml per min/g dry wt). Time-courses of cTn-I release were roughly similar with both assays in the H/Reox model (r = 0.90). These data indicate that the cTn-I time-course is related to experimental model (I/R or H/Reox), but also likely depends on the sensitivity of cTn-I assays in such experimental conditions.
Human embryonic stem cells develop into multiple types of cardiac myocytes: action potential characterization.	Human embryonic stem (hES) cells can differentiate in vitro, forming embryoid bodies (EBs) composed of derivatives of all three embryonic germ layers. Spontaneously contracting outgrowths from these EBs contain cardiomyocytes (CMs); however, the types of human CMs and their functional properties are unknown. This study characterizes the contractions and action potentials (APs) from beating EB outgrowths cultured for 40 to 95 days. Spontaneous and electrical field-stimulated contractions were measured with video edge-detection microscopy. beta-Adrenergic stimulation with 1.0 micromol/L isoproterenol resulted in a significant increase in contraction magnitude. Intracellular electrical recordings using sharp KCl microelectrodes in beating EB outgrowths revealed three distinct classes of APs: nodal-like, embryonic atrial-like, and embryonic ventricular-like. The APs were described as embryonic based on the relatively depolarized resting membrane potential and slow AP upstroke. Repeated impalements of an individual beating outgrowth revealed a reproducible AP morphology recorded from different cells, suggesting that each outgrowth is composed of a predominant cell type. Complex functional properties typical of cardiac muscle were observed in the hES cell-derived CMs including rate adaptation of AP duration and provoked early and delayed afterdepolarizations. Repolarization of the AP showed a significant role for IKr based on E-4031 induced prolongation of AP duration as anticipated for human CMs. In conclusion, hES cells can differentiate into multiple types of CMs displaying functional properties characteristic of embryonic human cardiac muscle. Thus, hES provide a renewable source of distinct types of human cardiac myocytes for basic research, pharmacological testing, and potentially therapeutic applications.
Measurement of cardiac troponin I in striated muscle using three experimental methods.	Qualitative and quantitative measures of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) in striated muscle have been reported as part of diverse investigations. However, there is disparity in the literature regarding the findings of these analyses. The cTnI molecule can exist in phosphorylated, non-phosphorylated, reduced, non-reduced, complexed or non-complexed forms. Each of these forms can change the antigenicity of cTnI, resulting in different antibody-antigen interactions in different experimental formats, thereby giving rise to the disparities in the literature.
Cardiac markers in the pericardial fluid in sudden coronary death]	The pericardial fluid was examined in 26 patients without morphological signs of severe damage to cardiac histiocytes, who died unexpectedly from ischemic heart disease (IHD)--main group. The control group comprised 26 persons, who died from other (not heart diseases-asphyxia, acute blood loss, crania-cerebral trauma). The mean age of the died was 57.4 +/- 1.5 years in the main group and 51.8 +/- 2.7 years in the control group. Cardiac markers were examined in the pericardial fluid of the died in both groups, i.e. the activity of aspartate aminotransferase (AsAT), of creatine kinase (CK), of isoenzyme KK-MB, of lactate dehydrogenase (LDG), and its isoenzyme spectrum, and, finally, the content of the cardiac troponin I (cTnI). The statistically reliable differences were found between the two groups according to the activity of AsAT, LDG, its isoenzyme spectrum and the cTnI content. Isoenzymes LDG1 and LDG2 constituted up to 60% of the LDG activity in the pericardial fluid of those who unexpectedly died from IHD. As for the control group, the LDG activity was virtually evenly distributed between all isoenzymes. No differences were found in the activity of CK and isoenzyme KK-MB between the main and control groups. Thus, the obtained data are indicative of the "cardiac" origin of enzymes in the pericardial fluid. Finally, a number of assumptions were put forward on mechanisms of hyper-fermentation in the ischemic damage of the cardiac muscle.
Estimation of postmortem interval using the protein marker cardiac Troponin I.	The importance of determining the time since death is crucial to criminal, civil and forensic cases. A technique exploiting the degradation of a protein, cardiac Troponin I (cTnI), to estimate the postmortem interval (PMI) was investigated. Cardiac Troponin I is a basic regulatory protein found as part of a ternary complex responsible for calcium dependent muscle contraction. An efficient extraction protocol to analyze the banding pattern of cTnI in postmortem tissue was developed. The analysis involves extraction of the protein, separation by denaturing gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and visualization by Western blot using cTnI specific monoclonal antibodies. A bovine model was used to develop and optimize the protocol. The homology of cTnI amongst mammalian species allows for the cross-reaction of human anti-cTnI antibodies with bovine cTnI. The results indicate a characteristic banding pattern amongst human cadavers (n=6), a pseudo-linear relationship between percent cTnI degraded and the log of the time since death (r>0.95), and a qualitative degradation band pattern that in a simple comparative analysis with a standard human heart (known time since death) can be used to estimate the postmortem interval. The degradation-banding pattern of tissue cTnI is useful in the determination of the early postmortem (pm) interval (0-5 days). Overall, this technique offers advantages such a wide postmortem interval, measurable degradation pattern, a temporal semiquantitative relationship and manageable temperature dependence over direct temperature methods.
Current concepts in standardization of cardiac marker immunoassays.	Cardiac markers are measured by a number of different immunoassays using specific antibodies directed to the respective antigens. Lacking assay standardization, different results from different assays measuring the same marker may be obtained and this problem may cloud interpretations of reported data. Presently, there are no reference procedures for cardiac markers; certified reference materials should still be established and, at least for cardiac troponins, the analyte in the patients' blood is significantly different from newly synthesized protein. It is therefore clear that the problems of cardiac marker standardization will not be quickly solved. A number of projects are, however, underway under the auspices of the IFCC and other organizations. The aim of this opinion is to reflect on some concepts related to the implementation of a metrologically correct measurement system, giving practical examples on how these concepts can be applied to immunoassays measuring cardiac markers.
Stunned peri-infarct canine myocardium is characterized by degradation of troponin T, not troponin I.	Degradation of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) has been proposed to represent the underlying molecular mechanism responsible for post-ischemic contractile dysfunction of viable but 'stunned' myocardium. However, this concept is largely derived from models of brief, sublethal ischemia essentially devoid of necrosis, and there is speculation that defects in cTnI may be model-dependent. Accordingly, our primary aim was to evaluate the integrity of cardiac troponins-i.e., cTnI, as well as cTnT and cTnC-in viable but stunned peri-infarct tissue. In addition, we addressed the as-yet unexplored issue of whether the profound reduction of infarct size evoked by brief preconditioning ischemia (PC) was accompanied by a favorable attenuation in ischemia/reperfusion-induced degradation of cTnI, cTnT or cTnC in the remaining viable subepicardium.
Incidence and significance of cardiac troponin I release in severe trauma patients.	The incidence and significance of troponin I release and its mechanism are unknown in severe trauma patients. The characteristics of this release were prospectively studied in such patients and correlated with presence of shock, existence of myocardial contusion, and outcome.
Effect of statin therapy prior to elective percutaneous coronary intervention on frequency of periprocedural myocardial injury.	This study evaluated whether pretreatment with statins was associated with a decreased incidence of periprocedural myocardial injury. Periprocedural myocardial injury occurs after percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and is associated with adverse outcomes. The pleiotropic properties of statins stabilize plaque and decrease the inflammatory milieu of atherosclerotic lesions. Accordingly, we hypothesized that preprocedural statin therapy would decrease periprocedural myocardial injury. We enrolled 425 patients who underwent successful PCI. The control arm (n = 150) included patients not on statin therapy at the time of PCI, and the statin arm (n = 275) included patients who were taking statin medication before PCI. All patients had serial enzymes measured, including creatine kinase (CK), CK-MB, and troponin I. The incidence of increased levels of CK and CK-MB >3 times normal and the absolute increase in CK and troponin I were compared between groups. The control arm had significantly higher periprocedural levels of CK. In the control group, 6% of patients had CK increases >3 times the upper limit of normal compared with 1.8% in the statin group (p = 0.02). The control arm had a higher frequency of CK-MB increases >3 times the upper limit of normal (7.3% vs 2.2%, p = 0.01). There was a trend toward higher levels of troponin I in the control group (3.21 vs 1.85 ng/ml, p = 0.06). Thus, statin therapy before elective PCI was associated with lower levels of periprocedural CK.
Coenzyme Q10 therapy before cardiac surgery improves mitochondrial function and in vitro contractility of myocardial tissue.	Previous clinical trials suggest that coenzyme Q(10) might afford myocardial protection during cardiac surgery. We sought to measure the effect of coenzyme Q(10) therapy on coenzyme Q(10) levels in serum, atrial trabeculae, and mitochondria; to assess the effect of coenzyme Q(10) on mitochondrial function; to test the effect of coenzyme Q(10) in protecting cardiac myocardium against a standard hypoxia-reoxygentation stress in vitro; and to determine whether coenzyme Q(10) therapy improves recovery of the heart after cardiac surgery.
Adenosine attenuates C-terminal but not N-terminal proteolysis of cTnI during cardioplegic arrest.	Specific site proteolysis and loss of troponin I (TnI) during myocardial ischemic events can contribute to myocardial dysfunction. Adenosine supplementation of cardioplegic solutions results in improved functional preservation of the heart. We investigated the effect of adenosine on N-terminal and C-terminal proteolysis of TnI in the heart.
Troponin as a marker of myocardiac damage in drug-induced cardiotoxicity.	Cardiac troponins T and I (cTnT and cTnI) are becoming the serum biomarkers of choice for monitoring potential drug-induced myocardial injury in both clinical and preclinical studies. The utility of cardiac troponins has been mainly demonstrated following the administration of antineoplastic drugs and beta-sympathomimetics, although the routine use of these markers in the monitoring in patients who received anthracyclines therapy is far from settled. Unlike the previous markers, which suffered from numerous shortages, the main advantages of cardiac troponins are their high specificity and sensitivity, wide diagnostic window and the possibility to use commercially available assays in clinical settings as well as in a broad range of laboratory animals. Nevertheless, in spite of vigorous research in this area, a number of questions are still unanswered and these are discussed in this review. The main problems seem to be the lack of standardisation of variety of troponin immunoassays, the assessment of suitable cutoff for drug-induced cardiotoxicity and determination of critical diagnostic window related to the optimal timing of sample collection, which may be drug-dependent.
Myocardial expression of Murf-1 and MAFbx after induction of chronic heart failure: Effect on myocardial contractility.	In chronic heart failure (CHF) the myocardial expression of the inflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), which is thought to contribute to myocardial remodeling, was found to be increased. However, it is unknown whether the E3-ubiquitin ligases MAFbx and Murf-1 are involved in this remodeling process and whether their expression is regulated by TNF-alpha.
Entropy and information content of laboratory test results.	This article introduces the use of information theoretic concepts such as entropy, S, for the evaluation of laboratory tests results, and it offers a new measure of information, 1 - S, which tells us just how far toward certainty a laboratory test result can predict a binary outcome. The derived method is applied to the serum markers troponin I and prostate-specific antigen and to histologic grading of HER-2/neu staining, to cytologic diagnosis of cervical specimens, and to the measurement of tumor thickness in malignant melanoma. Not only do the graphic results provide insight for these tests, they also validate prior conclusions. Thus, this information theoretic approach shows promise for evaluating and understanding laboratory test results.
Optimization of cardiac troponin I pull-down by IDM affinity beads and SELDI.	Cardiac troponin I (cTnI) is a key regulator of cardiac muscle contraction. Upon myocardial cell injury, cTnI is lost from the cardiac myocyte and can be detected in serum, in some cases with specific disease-induced modifications, making it an important diagnostic marker for acute myocardial injury. Presently, hospital laboratories use enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays to detect cTnI, but this type of analysis lacks information about modified forms of protein (degradation or phosphorylation) that may give a more specific diagnosis from either serum or biopsies. Because cardiac and serum tissues are widely used for proteomic analysis, it is important to detect these cTnI posttranslational modifications. Therefore, we have chosen to optimize the enrichment and detection of cTnI protein by IDM Affinity Bead pull-down and surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionization time of flight mass spectrometry (SELDI-TOF-MS or SELDI) analyses. By adjusting the chemical compositions of the buffers, we have retained antibody specificity and enriched for different forms of cTnI and its associated proteins.
Mn2+-dependent protein phosphatase 1 enhances protein kinase A-induced Ca2+ desensitisation in skinned murine myocardium.	Phosphorylation of proteins in cardiac myofilaments is a major determinant in the regulation of the Ca(2+) sensitivity of contraction. Whereas most reports have focused on effects of phosphorylation, little is known about reverse effects of dephosphorylation in skinned myocardium. Here we studied the effect of the Mn(2+)-dependent catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1c-alpha) on the Ca(2+) regulation of contraction. In particular, we tested the hypothesis that phosphorylation persists after the skinning procedure and thereby attenuates protein kinase A (PKA)-induced Ca(2+) desensitisation.
Release kinetics of intact and degraded troponin I and T after irreversible cell damage.	We characterized the release kinetics of cardiac troponin I and T in relation to lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) from cardiomyocytes before and after the transition from reversible to irreversible cell damage.
Adenylyl cyclase 6 improves calcium uptake and left ventricular function in aged hearts.	This study tested the hypothesis that activation of adenylyl cyclase 6 (AC6) expression in cardiac myocytes improves calcium uptake and left ventricular (LV) function in aging mice.
Cardiac troponin I: a case study in rational antibody design for human diagnostics.	In vitro diagnostic (IVD) platforms provide rapid and accurate determination of disease status. The clinical performance of antibody-based diagnostic platforms is paramount as the information provided often informs the medical intervention taken and, ultimately, the patient's outcome. Breaking down such an immuno-IVD device into its component elements, the biorecognition entity is key to the analytical specificity of the test. Furthermore, tailored optimisation of the antibody is often necessary to impart the desired biophysical properties for the specific application. This tailoring is now widely facilitated by advances in combinatorial approaches to antibody generation, molecular evolution strategies and the availability of truly high-throughput (HT), refined surface plasmon resonance-based screening tools. In this paper, we demonstrate a rational, knowledge-driven approach to the generation of epitope-specific antibodies for the early detection of cardiovascular disease, discuss the merits of the approaches taken and offer a perspective on HT strategies to mining large antibody libraries. These results highlight the expedience of such methodologies for the development of truly superior cardiovascular disease biorecognition elements.
Assay of cardiac troponin T on Elecsys 2010: comparison with cardiac troponin I]	Cardiac troponin T (troponin Tc) of second generation has been measured on the Boehringer Elecsys 2010 analyzer. Cardiac specificity has been studied in patients presenting a rhabdomyolysis syndrome and the results compared with those obtained for cardiac troponin I (troponin Ic) measured on the Dade-Behring Stratus analyzer. The results clearly demonstrated that both troponin Tc and Ic showed similar cardiac specificity. Moreover, troponin Tc and troponin Ic can be indifferently used for the biological diagnostic of myocardial infarction or to asses reperfusion after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for acute myocardial infarction. In renal disease, troponin Tc was upper the reference limit (0.10 microgram/l) in 25% of the patients studied (20 patients). By contrast, troponin Ic was upper the reference limit (0.6 microgram/l) in only one patient.
Diagnostic strategies in myocardial infarction using myoglobin measurement.	Determination of myoglobin, a low molecular weight haeme protein (17.8 kDa), present in both cardiac and skeletal muscle, is an old test with new perspectives. Advantages and disadvantages of myoglobin determination are well known; recent availability of rapid and accurate methods for the assay of this protein has greatly enhanced interest in the clinical utilization of the test. However, since myoglobin is present in both skeletal and cardiac muscle, any damage to these muscle types results in its release in blood and, consequently, high levels of the protein are observed in conditions unrelated to acute myocardial infarction (AMI). New strategies for myoglobin measurement may resolve this limitation. These strategies include both the combined measurement of myoglobin and a skeletal specific marker (carbonic anhydrase III) or a cardiac specific marker (troponin I or T), as well as myoglobin evaluation on serial samples. In particular. the diagnostic algorithm based on combined measurement of myoglobin and troponins significantly improves diagnostic efficiency in laboratory assessment of suspected AMI patients. However, further efforts are necessary to improve the standardization of present methods for myoglobin measurement: the significant disagreement demonstrated between some commercially available assays should be carefully considered in clinical practice.
Biochemical differences between cTnT and cTnI and their significance for diagnosis of acute coronary syndromes.	Although assays for cardiac troponin T (cTnT) and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) exhibit similar clinical performance in patients with acute coronary syndromes for diagnosis and risk stratification, there are differences in the release and clearance of these proteins from damaged myocytes. There are also differences in the percentages of patients with chronic renal failure and skeletal muscle myopathies that have abnormal results. A review of the biochemistry of these proteins may provide insights as to the nature of these differences. Cardiac troponin T has a higher overall tissue concentration and free cytoplasmic concentrations than cTnI, and appears in blood of patients with acute myocardial infarction as a mixture of complexed (cTnT-I-C) and free cTnT. Cardiac troponin I is more hydrophobic and appears in blood predominately in the binary complex (I-C) form, with smaller amounts of the ternary (T-I-C) complex. Degradation of the complex will lead to faster clearance of the protein. There are also differences in standardization and availability of commercial troponin kits. Cardiac troponin T assays are available from only one manufacturer and are standardized to a single material, whereas cTnI is available from multiple vendors. While there is some degree of correlation between assays, there are significant proportional biases between results which can be problematical when different tests are made on the same patient.
Precolumn affinity capillary electrophoresis for the identification of clinically relevant proteins in human serum: application to human cardiac troponin I.	An approach has been developed to the on-line extraction and identification of clinical disease-state marker proteins in human serum. Fabrication of capillaries with integral packed beds for the online determination of human cardiac troponin I (cTnI), a diagnostic marker for myocardial infarction, at clinically relevant levels (2 nmol/L) in serum is demonstrated. The technique, termed precolumn affinity capillary electrophoresis (PA-CE), utilizes a short (approximately 5 mm) packed bed of porous silica containing covalently immobilized monoclonal anti-cTnI antibodies directly integrated within a separation capillary for the selective retention of cTnI from a complex matrix. Following a rinsing step to eliminate nonspecifically bound serum proteins and other impurities from the column, desorption of the antigen into the separation region of the PA-CE capillary for subsequent measurement of femto-molar amounts of cTnI by CE is effected by the injection of an appropriate elution buffer. Advantages of this approach over previously reported affinity preconcentration techniques, related applications for PA-CE technology, and its potential for use in the development of a certified reference material for cTnI in serum are discussed.
