Prediction of Recurrent Events by D-Dimer and Inflammatory Markers in Patients with Normal Cardiac Troponin I (PREDICT) Study.	The independent predictive value of d-dimer and inflammatory markers for the risk of recurrent adverse events in patients with acute chest pain but normal levels of cardiac troponin I (cTnI) remains unclear.
The prognostic value of serum troponin T in unstable angina.	Cardiac troponin T is a regulatory contractile protein not normally found in blood. Its detection in the circulation has been shown to be a sensitive and specific marker for myocardial cell damage. We used a newly developed enzyme immunoassay for troponin T to determine whether its presence in the serum of patients with unstable angina was a prognostic indicator.
Side-branch occlusion during percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty.	Concentrations of creatine kinase (CK) MB mass and cardiac troponin T were measured in serial peripheral venous blood samples from 21 patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA). Angiography showed side-branch occlusion during PTCA without clinical signs of myocardial injury in 5 patients. After PTCA, CKMB mass concentrations were substantially higher than normal in all 5 patients with side-branch occlusion, and troponin T concentrations were high in 3. By contrast, only 2 patients and 1 patient, respectively, without side-branch occlusion had slight rises in CKMB and troponin T. Release of the contractile protein troponin T reflects more severe damage to myocytes than simple leakage of CKMB. Therefore, myocardial damage induced by side-branch occlusion can be graded by measurement of troponin T in plasma.
A cardiac troponin T epitope conserved across phyla.	Troponin T is a thin filament protein that is important in regulating striated muscle contraction. We have raised a monoclonal antibody against rabbit cardiac troponin T, monoclonal (mAb) 13-11, that recognizes its epitope in cardiac troponin T isoforms from fish, bird, and mammal but not from frog. The number of these isoforms expressed in cardiac muscle varies among species and during development. Cardiac troponin T isoforms were not found in adult skeletal muscle, while they were expressed transiently in immature skeletal muscle. We have mapped the epitope recognized by mAb 13-11 using rabbit cardiac troponin T isoforms. Analysis of stepwise cyanogen bromide digestion, which allowed association of the epitope to regions spanning methionine residues, coupled with immunoactivity of synthetic peptides, corresponding to sequences containing methionine residues, indicated that mAb 13-11 recognized its epitope in a 17-residue sequence containing the methionine at position 68, SKPKPRPFMPNLVPPKI. Comparison of skeletal and cardiac troponin T sequences suggested that the epitope was contained within the sequence FMPNLVPPKI. Synthetic peptides PFMPNLVPPKI and FMPNLVPPKI were recognized by mAb 13-11 on slot-blots. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay demonstrated mAb 13-11 recognized, in order of descending affinity, the 17-, 11-, and 10-residue sequence. Preabsorption of mAb 13-11 with each of these sequences blocked the recognition of the 17-residue peptide by mAb 13-11. The domain, PFMPNLVPPKI is encoded by the 5' region of the cardiac gene exon 10 and is present in hearts across a broad range of phyla. These findings suggest that this cardiac troponin T-specific sequence confers onto myofilaments structural and functional properties unique to the heart.
Replacement of troponin components in myofibrils.	The Ca(2+)-sensitive ATPase activity of rabbit skeletal myofibrils was desensitized by treatment with excess troponin T and was found to be activated irrespective of the Ca2+ concentrations. A SDS-gel electrophoretic study showed that both troponin C and troponin I were removed from the myofibrils on treatment with troponin T. The Ca(2+)- and Sr(2+)- sensitivities of the ATPase of troponin T-treated myofibrils reconstituted with troponin C. I were the same as in the intact myofibrils. The Ca(2+)-activated ATPase of rabbit skeletal myofibrils was also desensitized on treatment with chicken breast troponin T or its 26K fragment. The SDS-gel electrophoretic study revealed that troponin T, in addition to troponin C and troponin I, was also removed from the myofibrils and, instead, chicken breast troponin T or its 26K fragment was incorporated into the myofibrils. The Ca(2+)- sensitivity of myofibrils treated with chicken breast troponin T or its 26K fragment was then regained on reconstitution with troponin C.I. These findings indicate that the change in composition of myofibrils on treatment with troponin T or its 26K fragment is due to the selective replacement of the troponin C.I.T complex in the myofibrils as a whole with troponin T or its 26K fragment.
Expression pattern of skeletal muscle troponin T isoforms is fixed in cell lineage.	The expression of fast-muscle-type troponin T isoforms in chicken skeletal muscles was studied by two-dimensional SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and immunoblotting. According to the pattern of troponin T isoform expression, chicken fast muscle was classified into two groups: One group expressed breast-fast-muscle-type troponin T in addition to leg-fast-muscle-type troponin T, the other expressed only leg-fast-muscle-type troponin T. To the former group belong breast and wing fast muscles and some of the back fast muscles, and to the latter group belong the fast muscles in leg, abdomen, and neck. Transplantation of breast muscle into leg was performed in order to change the physical environment and to investigate the mechanism of isoform expression. Histological observation of the transplant revealed severe degeneration of muscle cells, followed by differentiation of myoblasts in which breast-muscle-type troponin T was eventually expressed. The results showed that the pattern of troponin T isoform expression is primarily fixed in the cell lineage, although nerves modulate it.
Protein kinase C phosphorylation of cardiac troponin I or troponin T inhibits Ca2(+)-stimulated actomyosin MgATPase activity.	Effects of troponin phosphorylation on Ca2(+)-stimulated MgATPase activity of bovine cardiac actomyosin were examined. Phosphorylation by protein kinase C of troponin I and troponin T subunits in troponin or troponin-tropomyosin complex resulted in a decreased Ca2(+)-stimulated MgATPase activity in reconstituted actomyosin, and this effect was reversed by subsequent dephosphorylation by protein phosphatase 1. It was further observed that protein kinase C phosphorylation of either troponin I or troponin T subunits led to a similar inhibition of Ca2(+)-stimulated actomyosin MgATPase activity. In all cases, EC50 values (concentrations causing 50% stimulation) for Ca2+ were not appreciably affected by troponin phosphorylation by protein kinase C. Data from phosphorylation site analysis suggests that phosphorylation of threonine 144 in troponin I and possibly threonine 280 or threonine 199 in troponin T might be important for the observed decrease of Ca2(+)-stimulated actomyosin MgATPase. It is suggested that inhibition of actomyosin MgATPase caused by protein kinase C phosphorylation of troponin I and/or troponin T represents a new mechanism that can account for in part the reported negative inotropic effect of phorbol esters on various cardiac preparations.
The role of biomarkers in the early detection of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity in children: a review of the literature.	Anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity can cause serious health problems for an increasing number of children surviving childhood malignancies. Early detection of cardiac failure is critically important for the prevention and management of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity. The aim of this research was to determine the role of biomarkers in the early detection of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity in children. A literature review is presented of studies regarding the use of the biomarkers B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP), N-terminal pro-BNP (NT-pro-BNP), cardiac troponin T (cTnT), and cardiac troponin I (cTnI) in relation with anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity in children. Six of 14 studies in children showed a significant relation between elevated biomarkers BNP, NT-pro-BNP, and cTnT and cardiac dysfunction. Six studies, although small, suggest that BNP, NT-pro-BNP, and cTnT might be useful markers in the early detection of anthracycline-induced cardiotoxicity.
Intracellular compartmentation of cardiac troponin T and its release kinetics in patients with reperfused and nonreperfused myocardial infarction.	In a previous study on the diagnostic efficiency of troponin T measurements in patients with suspected acute myocardial infarction (AMI), the authors found a high variability of troponin T serum concentration changes on day 1 in patients with AMI who underwent thrombolytic treatment. Therefore, the aims of the present study were to investigate the intracellular compartmentation of troponin T and to analyze the effects of AMI reperfusion on the appearance kinetics of cardiac troponin T in serum. Cardiac troponin T was measured with a newly developed bideterminant sandwich assay using cardiospecific, affinity-purified polyclonal antibodies and peroxidase-labeled monoclonal antibody. An unbound cytosolic troponin T pool was found in ultracentrifuged homogenates of myocardial tissue of different species ranging from 0.013 to 0.036 mg/g wet weight. The soluble troponin T molecule had electrophoretic properties identical to troponin T compartmented in the myofibrils. The clinical study group comprised 57 patients with AMI undergoing thrombolytic treatment. Blood flow to the infarct zone and point of time of reperfusion were tested by immediate and late angiography. The appearance of troponin T in serum on day 1 after the onset of AMI depended strongly on reperfusion and on duration of ischemia before reperfusion. Thus, in patients with early reperfused AMI, a marked peak in troponin T serum concentrations was found at 14 hours after the onset of pain. This early troponin T peak was absent in patients with AMI reperfusion occurring greater than 5.5 hours after the onset of pain and in patients with nonreperfused AMI. By contrast, the kinetics of troponin T release after the first day after AMI were unaffected by reperfusion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Force-pCa relation and troponin T isoforms of rabbit myocardium.	We have previously reported the existence of at least four troponin T isoforms in rabbit ventricular muscle and described the changes in their distribution with development. In this report we test whether the proportions of the troponin T isoforms are related to the sensitivity of the myofilaments to calcium. We measured the force-pCa relations in 12 detergent-skinned ventricular strands of cardiac muscle from newborn (2-5-day-old) rabbits. We determined from each strand the amount of each troponin T isoform relative to the total amount of troponin T by using sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and densitometric scans of Western blots probed with a cardiac-specific troponin T monoclonal antibody, MAb 13-11. To assess the presence of different relative amounts of cardiac and slow skeletal troponin I among the strands, we determined the amount of cardiac troponin I relative to tropomyosin. We determined the Hill coefficient and the pCa for half-maximal force, pCa50, for each strand. pCa50 was related directly to the relative amount of troponin T2 (pslope = 0.037). Our results do not indicate a relation between the Hill coefficient and troponin T2. We also did not find a relation between pCa50 and the cardiac troponin I/tropomyosin ratio, which suggests that the correlation between pCa50 and troponin T2 was not a result of changes in the relative amounts of cardiac and slow skeletal muscle troponin I. Our findings indicate that a relation exists between the force-pCa characteristics of rabbit myocardium and the troponin T isoforms that it expresses, suggesting a role for troponin T in modulating the sensitivity of cardiac myofilaments to calcium.
Characterization of a promoter element required for transcription in myocardial cells.	Transcription of the chicken cardiac troponin T (cTNT) gene in myocardial cells requires upstream sequences not required for expression of this gene in embryonic skeletal muscle cells. Deletion analysis shows that the segment between nucleotides -247 and -201 (numbered relative to the transcription initiation site at +1) is capable of conferring cardiac specific expression to a "minimal" cTNT promoter. The cardiac element within this segment contains at least two essential subregions: one residing upstream of position -215, which bears no homologies to known transcription elements, and an A/T-rich segment residing between positions -215 and -201. Conserved M-CAT motifs within the cTNT minimal promoter which are required for activity in skeletal muscle cells are also required for activity in myocardial cells, suggesting an interaction between the upstream cardiac element and proximal promoter elements. Gel-shift experiments demonstrate interaction between the upstream portion of the cardiac element and factor(s) present in the nuclei of cardiac and non-cardiac tissues. Thus, additional cis and trans factors are required for transcription of the cTNT gene in myocardial cells which are not required for expression in skeletal muscle cells.
Diagnostic efficiency of troponin T measurements in acute myocardial infarction.	The present study was designed to evaluate the efficiency of a newly developed troponin T enzyme immunoassay for the detection of acute myocardial infarction.
Non-invasive assessment of perioperative myocardial cell damage by circulating cardiac troponin T.	Troponin T is a unique cardiac antigen which is continuously released from infarcting myocardium. Its cardiospecificity as a marker protein might be particularly useful in assessing myocardial cell damage in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Therefore, circulating troponin T was measured in serial blood samples from 56 patients undergoing cardiac surgery and in two control groups--22 patients undergoing minor orthopaedic surgery and 12 patients undergoing lung surgery by median sternotomy. In both control groups no troponin T could be detected, whereas activities of creatine kinase were raised in all 12 lung surgery controls and activities of the MB isoenzyme were raised in five of the 12 patients in the lung surgery group and in four of the 22 patients in the orthopaedic surgery group, respectively. All the patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (n = 47) and cardiac surgery for other reasons (n = 9) had detectable concentrations of troponin T. Five patients had perioperative myocardial infarction detected as new Q waves and R wave reductions. In these five patients troponin T release persisted and serum concentrations (5.5-23 micrograms/l) reached a peak on the fourth postoperative day. In the 51 patients without perioperative myocardial infarction serum concentrations and the release kinetics of troponin T depended on the duration of cardiac arrest. In patients in whom aortic cross clamping was short troponin T increased slightly on the first postoperative days; in patients with longer periods of aortic cross clamping troponin T concentrations were higher and remained so beyond the fifth postoperative day. In patients with non-specific changes on the electrocardiogram troponin T concentrations were significantly higher on days 1 and 4 after operation than in patients with normal postoperative electrocardiograms(11.2 (5) and 4.5 (2.6) v 8.2 (3.4) and 2.9 (1.6) 1microg/l). Serum concentrations of troponin T showed some myocardial cell damage in every patient undergoing cardiac surgery. The persistent increases that were more common in patients with longer periods of cardiac arrest must have been caused by damage to the contractile apparatus. These results suggest that perioperative myocardial cell necrosis may be more common than indicated by changes of the QRS complex on the electrocardiogram.
Cardiac troponin T in diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction.	Troponin T is a structurally bound protein found in striated muscle cells. We tested concentrations of its cardiac-specific isotype in peripheral venous blood samples serially drawn from 72 patients with confirmed myocardial infarction. Fifty-nine patients received thrombolytic treatment with intravenous streptokinase, urokinase, or recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator; because of contraindications, the remaining 13 patients did not. Concentrations of troponin T in plasma, measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, started increasing within a few hours after the onset of symptoms (median, 4 h; range, 1-10 h). The sensitivity of troponin T for detecting myocardial infarction was 100% from 10 to 120 h after the onset of symptoms; sensitivity on the seventh day after admission was 84%. Concentrations were increased for up to three weeks in some patients with late or high peak values. Successful reperfusion in Q-wave infarction obviously influences the release of troponin T into plasma, with all such cases showing peak values less than or equal to 26 h (median, 14 h) after the onset of symptoms. Troponin T concentrations in these patients returned to within the reference interval more rapidly than in nonreperfused subjects. In the 13 patients without fibrinolytic therapy, troponin T tended to peak approximately 48 h (median) after the onset of chest pain. Troponin T concentrations in patients for whom thrombolysis was unsuccessful resembled those in patients without fibrinolytic therapy. The specificity of the assay was 96% as tested in samples of 96 emergency-room patients. The reference interval (less than 0.5 micrograms/L) was established from samples of 100 healthy blood donors. Troponin T measurements are a specific and sensitive method for the early and late diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction and could, therefore, provide a new criterion in laboratory diagnosis of its occurrence.
Caspase-3 does not enhance in vitro bovine myofibril degradation by μ-calpain.	Tenderness is a key component of palatability, which influences consumers' perception of meat quality. There are a variety of factors that contribute to the tenderness of beef carcasses, including postmortem proteolysis. A more complete understanding of this biological mechanism regulating tenderness is needed to ensure consistently tender beef. Numerous reports indicate µ-calpain is primarily responsible for the degradation of proteins postmortem. Meanwhile, it has been shown that caspase-3 can cleave calpastatin, the inhibitor of µ-calpain. Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine if in vitro degradation of calpastatin by caspase-3 can enhance the postmortem breakdown of myofibrillar proteins by µ-calpain. Bovine semitendinosus muscles were excised from two carcasses 20 min postmortem. Muscle strips were dissected from the semitendinosus, restrained to maintain length, and placed in a neutral buffer containing protease inhibitors. Upon rigor completion, myofibrils were isolated from each strip, and sarcomere length was determined. Samples with similar sarcomere lengths were selected to minimize the effect of sarcomere length on proteolysis. Myofibrils were then incubated at 22°C with either µ-calpain, µ-calpain+calpastatin, µ-calpain+caspase-3+calpastatin, or caspase-3+calpastatin for 0.25, 1, 3, 24, 48, or 72 h at a pH of 6.8. Proteolysis of troponin T (TnT) and calpastatin was evaluated using SDS-PAGE and Western blotting techniques. Analysis of Western blots confirmed significant degradation of calpastatin by caspase-3 (P<0.05). Additionally, Western blots revealed intact calpastatin disappeared rapidly as a result of digestion by µ-calpain. Although caspase-3 did not significantly degrade TnT (P>0.05), all µ-calpain digestion treatments resulted in substantial TnT breakdown (P<0.05). Degradation of TnT did not differ between the µ-calpain+calpastatin and µ-calpain+caspase-3+calpastatin digestions (P>0.05). Results of this study indicate caspase-3 cleavage of calpastatin does not enhance in vitro degradation of TnT by µ-calpain.
Vascular smooth muscle calponin. A novel troponin T-like protein.	In a search for additional Ca2+ regulatory components in vascular smooth muscle, a novel troponin T-like protein was purified from bovine aorta smooth muscle. The isolated protein was separated into several isoforms on isoelectric focusing. The major isoelectric variants were focused in the pH region of 8.4 to 9.1. The protein had slightly different molecular masses in the Mr range of 35,000 on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. Its molar ratio relative to tropomyosin in the muscle extract was estimated to be 0.9:1.0. The novel protein bound to the immobilized calmodulin and exhibited a number of common physicochemical properties with gizzard (Mr = 34,000) calmodulin-binding and F-actin-binding protein. The aorta and gizzard proteins were immunologically cross-reactive. Both proteins shared a common antigenic determinant with COOH-terminal segments of rabbit skeletal and bovine cardiac troponin T and bound to the immobilized smooth muscle tropomyosin. Both proteins interacted with rabbit skeletal troponin C in the presence and absence of Ca2+, but they did not interact with troponin I. These results suggest that the novel protein, which is designated calponin, may be a specialized component of smooth muscle thin filament involved in the regulation of contractile apparatus.
Alternative splicing generates variants in important functional domains of human slow skeletal troponin T.	We provide the first nucleotide sequence information for the slow isoform of troponin T (TnT). Sequence and hybridization analyses revealed that a single slow TnT gene present in the human genome gives rise to at least two different slow TnT variants by alternative splicing. The observed variations in slow TnT splicing generated major structural differences between the two corresponding slow TnT proteins in a domain that is likely to be involved in critical interactions with troponin C, troponin I, and tropomyosin in the thin filament. Corresponding variations have not been found for fast or for cardiac TnT. The comparison of splicing patterns for fast, cardiac, and slow TnT reveals that the splicing pattern for each isoform is unique. These features raise important questions of why and how all the individual members of the closely related TnT gene family developed such complex but different schemes of alternative splicing to create sets of variant proteins. This unusual familial trait is not known in any other muscle or nonmuscle multigene family.
Coexistence of slow and fast isoforms of contractile and regulatory proteins in human skeletal muscle fibres induced by endurance training.	The distribution of fast and slow isoforms of troponin C, I, and T components and myosin heavy chains was investigated in histochemically typed myofibrillar ATPase intermediate (IM) fibres, that is, fibres that stain after both acid and alkaline preincubation in stainings for myofibrillar ATPase. In addition to the previously described IM fibres of types IIC and IB, fibres that displayed staining characteristics between types IIC and IB were observed and termed type IIC-IB. The IM fibres constitute less than 1% of the fibres in normal human limb and abdominal muscles. The IM fibres studied here resulted from extensive endurance training of human triceps brachii muscle (n = 6) and were induced by conversion of a proportion (13%) of type II fibres. The immunohistochemical stains of serial sections with antibodies to slow isoforms of troponin I, T, C and myosin heavy chain showed no staining of type II fibres but intense staining of types I and IB fibres, whereas type IIC fibres stained with intermediate intensity. The antibodies to fast isoforms of the troponin components and myosin heavy chain did not give rise to staining of type I fibres but dark staining of type II fibres. Type IB fibres stained with intermediate intensity and type IIC was either as dark as type II or slightly lighter. Type IIC-IB fibres showed staining intensities intermediate between those observed for types IB and IIC in the immunohistochemical stains. It is therefore concluded that training-induced myofibrillar ATPase intermediate human skeletal muscle fibres are characterized by the coexistence of slow and fast isoforms of contractile and regulatory proteins.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Type I protein is a slow isoform of troponin T.	Type I protein, a myofibrillar protein thought to be specific to slow-twitch skeletal muscle fibers, was purified. Two-dimensional electrophoresis indicated its identity with the purified slow troponin-T1s isoform. Immunochemical analyses using antibodies raised against type I protein and slow Tn-T1s, further substantiated the identity of the two proteins.
Study of the physico-chemical properties of troponins I and T from the heart and skeletal muscles using protein fluorescence and calorimetry methods]	Physico-chemical properties of troponin I and troponin T subunits from cardiac and skeletal muscles were studied, using intrinsic protein fluorescence and differential scanning microcalorimetry. The effects of temperature, pH, urea and ionic strength were analyzed. Similar skeletal and cardiac components were shown to possess similar properties. Alkali produced structural changes in both troponins I which seems to be initiated by deprotonation of histidyl side chains within the pH range of 6.5-9.0. An increase of pH from 9 to 12 results in alkaline denaturation transitions in both troponin I subunits, which might be due to deprotonation of tyrosyl side chains. A decrease of pH from 6 to 4 causes aggregation of both troponin T subunits. Cardiac troponin T is more stable to alkali and urea denaturation than the skeletal one. Heating up to 100 degrees C does not cause any cooperative denaturation transitions in troponins I and troponins T. These results suggest that cardiac and skeletal troponins I and troponins T possess a rather open, not highly ordered structure in solution.
Developmentally induced, muscle-specific trans factors control the differential splicing of alternative and constitutive troponin T exons.	Alternative RNA splicing is a ubiquitous process permitting single genes to encode multiple protein isoforms. Here we report experiments in which a gene construct, containing combinatorial Troponin T (TnT) exons that manifest an exceptional diversity of alternative splicing in vivo, has been transfected into muscle and nonmuscle cells. Analyses of the spliced RNAs show that the alternative TnT exons retain their capacity for differential splicing in the modified minigene context when introduced into a variety of nonmuscle and muscle cells. The patterns of alternative splicing differ depending on cell type. Only in differentiated myotubes are the alternative exons normally incorporated during splicing, reproducing their behavior in the native gene; they are excluded in nonmuscle cells and myoblasts that do not express the endogenous TnT. These results provide proof that trans factors required for correct alternative splicing are induced during myogenesis. Surprisingly, such factors are also required for the correct splicing of constitutive TnT exons.
Identification of two variants of troponin T in the developing chicken heart using a monoclonal antibody.	Troponin T (TNT) expressed in the developing chicken cardiac muscle was examined by immunoblotting combined with two-dimensional electrophoresis (2-D PAGE) and peptide mapping. When the whole lysate of the neonatal heart was examined by 2-D PAGE, two TNT variants were detected on the gel by monoclonal antibody to TNT. Expression of the two variants was developmentally regulated: one isoform (type I) was expressed from embryonic through neonatal stages, and the other (type II) from the late embryonic stage through adulthood during cardiac muscle development. The type-I isoform, but not type-II isoform, was also expressed transiently in chicken skeletal muscle at embryonic stages. As judged from the peptide maps, the two isoforms differed in the N-terminal region but not in the C-terminal region.
Chymotryptic subfragments of troponin T from rabbit skeletal muscle. I. Determination of the primary structure.	Chymotryptic subfragments from rabbit skeletal troponin T were purified using column chromatography. Molecular weight values on SDS gel electrophoresis, tryptophan contents, N- and C-terminal residues, and amino acid compositions were examined for each subfragment. Based on these findings, the positions of the subfragments in the sequence of troponin T were determined as follows: N-terminal acetylserine-1-tyrosine-158 for troponin T1 (MW 18,700); serine-156-C-terminal lysine-259 for troponin T2 alpha s (MW 12,200); leucine-159-C-terminal lysine-259 for troponin T2 (or troponin T2 alpha) (MW 11,900); leucine-159-phenylalanine-242 for troponin T2 beta I (MW 10,200); leucine-159-tyrosine-227 for troponin T2 beta II (MW 8,400); leucine-159-leucine-222 for troponin T2 beta III (MW 7,700); and serine-243-C-terminal lysine-259 for troponin T2 gamma (MW 1,800). The pathway of chymotryptic digestion of troponin T was also investigated and the results are discussed in relation to the higher structure of troponin T.l The interaction of some chymotryptic subfragments with tropomyosin was also investigated by affinity chromatography.
Intrinsic U2AF binding is modulated by exon enhancer signals in parallel with changes in splicing activity.	A functional analysis of exon replacement mutations was performed in parallel with RNA-protein binding assays to gain insight into the role of the exon in alternative and simple splicing events. These results show that constitutive exons from unrelated genes contain strong signals that promote splicing in multiple sequence contexts by enhancing 3' splice site activity. A clue to the nature of the relationship between the exon and adjacent 3' splice site is indicated by the binding properties of exon variant RNAs when tested with different biochemical preparations of the essential splicing protein, U2AF. In the context of a complete nuclear extract, U2AF binding to the 3' splice site is stimulated by the presence of an adjacent constitutive exon. In contrast, highly purified HeLa U2AF binds equivalently to the exon variants under conditions in which differential polypyrimidine tract binding is evident. These results provide support for an assisted binding model in which positive-acting signals within exons, exon enhancers, direct the binding of accessory factors, which in turn increase the intrinsic affinity of U2AF for the adjacent 3' splice site. Further support for an assisted binding model is indicated by biochemical complementation of U2AF binding and by the localization of a novel exon enhancer, which, when introduced into a weak exon, stimulates splicing activity in parallel with U2AF binding. Immunoprecipitation analysis identifies the splicing factor, SC35, as a constituent of the exon enhancer binding complex. These results are discussed in the context of current models for functional exon-bridging interactions.
Management of isolated sternum fracture: screening for heart contusion with troponin T]	In all of our reported cases a seat belt injury was the reason for the sternal fracture. Only 4 of 27 patients of this prospective study suffered from a heart contusion. None of our patients showed complications. An isolated sternal fracture with or without heart contusion seems to be of minor clinical significance. Referring to our patients a screening of a heart contusion with CKMB/CK activity and ECG seems to be sufficient when the trauma is not older than 12 hours. The longer persisting plasma concentrations of cardiac troponin T (cTnT) enables a diagnosis of a heart contusion even after a few days.
Development and characterization of a rapid assay for bedside determinations of cardiac troponin T.	The appearance of cardiac proteins in blood is the most specific and sensitive indicator of acute myocardial cell necrosis. The measurement of cardiac markers, however, is time consuming and requires sophisticated equipment. To facilitate the biochemical detection for acute myocardial cell necrosis, a whole-blood rapid assay device for cardiac troponin T detection was developed that provides a test result within 20 minutes.
Recombinant hirudin (HBW 023) prevents troponin T release after coronary angioplasty in patients with unstable angina.	This study was performed to evaluate the efficacy of peri-interventional treatment with recombinant hirudin (r-hirudin [HBW 023]) compared with heparin in the prevention of troponin T release in patients with unstable angina.
Different time courses of cardiac contractile proteins after acute myocardial infarction.	For the first time we have compared time courses of cardiac myosin light chain-1 (MLC-1), beta-type myosin heavy chain (MHC), troponin T (TnT), myoglobin, creatine kinase (CK) and CKMB in the same patients with acute myocardial infarction (AMI). Blood samples were serially collected in 23 patients with first-time AMI. All but 3 patients received intravenous thrombolytic treatment. TnT and MLC-1 time courses were biphasic in most patients and showed two distinct peaks in 13 and 8 patients, respectively. MHC time courses were usually monophasic. Only 1 patient showed a biphasic MHC time course with two distinct peak values. Although MHC and MLC were lower by about the fourth day after onset of AMI in early reperfused patients, reperfusion did not qualitatively alter MLC and MHC release (no significant influence on the first appearance in blood or on time to peak). MLC and MHC peaks correlated closely (r = 0.75, P = 0.0001), whereas TnT peaks were correlated less closely with MLC or MHC peaks (r = 0.58 each, P < 0.007). Peak values of all cardiac contractile proteins correlated closely and significantly with CKMB peaks (0.75 < or = r < or = 0.81, P < or = 0.0006). Myoglobin was the first marker to increase in blood after AMI and showed the earliest peaks, whereas MHC increased latest showing the latest peaks. TnT increased significantly (P = 0.0001) earlier than MLC and MHC. These results can be explained by the impact of the intracellular compartmentation of a cardiac protein on the rapidity with which it is released after AMI.
Potential role of serum troponin T in cardiomyocyte injury in the broiler ascites syndrome.	1. Cardiac troponin T is a recently developed serological marker used as a sensitive diagnostic tool for early myocardial damage in 'at risk' human patients. 2. Serum troponin T values were measured in young 30-d-old broilers with ascites and in healthy age-matched flockmates. 3. The data showed a significant increase (P < 0.001) in troponin T values in ascitic broilers compared with control birds. A similar increase in the arterial pressure index in ascitic birds indicated a good positive correlation at this age. 4. The results suggest that this new assay cross-reacts with chicken cardiac troponin T antigen and that it may be an important indicator of myocardial cell damage for use in future genetic selection programmes in the combat against ascites.
On the ontogeny of cardiac gene transcripts.	As a prerequisite to investigating the specification and differentiation of cardiac tissue in vitro, the ontogeny of a number of putative cardiac-specific, and striated muscle-specific gene transcripts has been studied. The probes used include cDNAs of alpha-actins, myosin heavy chains, myosin light chains, alpha-tropomyosin, troponin-T and atrial natriuretic factor. The expression of these genes was monitored by Northern analysis of heart and various other tissues at three developmental ages, viz, adult, neonatal and mid-foetal. The aim of this exercise was to confirm the efficacy of a number of markers to represent a cardiac-specific subset of gene expression in our mammalian model, the guinea pig. Our results indicate predominantly cardiac expression for the mRNA transcripts of cardiac alpha-actin (c alpha-actin), cardiac myosin heavy chain-alpha (MHC alpha), cardiac myosin heavy chain-beta (MHC beta), myosin light chain-1A (MLC1A), myosin light chain-1V (MLC1V), alpha-tropomyosin (alpha TM), cardiac troponin-T (cTnT) and atrial natriuretic factor (ANF). Furthermore, cardiac-specific expression at the midfoetal time point was observed for five gene transcripts, MLC1V, MHC alpha, MHC beta, striated alpha TM and ANF. No genes were expressed exclusively in cardiac tissue; for example, expression of the genes for c alpha-actin, both cardiac MHCs, both MLCs, alpha TM and cTnT was evident in skeletal and vascular smooth muscles at some stages of development. An interesting difference between this species and those of previous studies was the minor contribution of skeletal alpha-actin to cardiac phenotype.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The expression pattern of contractile and intermediate filament proteins in developing skeletal muscle and rhabdomyosarcoma of childhood: diagnostic and prognostic utility.	In order to investigate whether rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) can be related to equivalent stages of skeletal muscle development, muscle tissue of 21 human foetuses and 112 primary RMSs were characterized immunohistochemically using antibodies directed against vimentin, desmin, muscle-specific actin (HHF35), sarcomeric actin (sr-actin), smooth muscle actin (sm-actin), and troponin-T. During fetal skeletal muscle development, all myotubes/fibres of the first and second generations expressed desmin, HHF35, and sr-actin. Vimentin was almost exclusively present in immature primary and secondary myotubes/fibres. Troponin-T was expressed in immature myotubes/fibres of the first and second generations as well as mature fibres of the second generation. Sm-actin was never expressed. Vimentin was expressed in 96 per cent of primary and 98 per cent of relapsed RMS; HHF35 in 96 and 98 per cent, respectively; desmin in 95 and 100 per cent; troponin-T in 82 and 75 per cent; sr-actin in 71 and 86 per cent; and sm-actin in 13 and 17 per cent. The proportion of RMS cells reacting with vimentin, HHF35, and desmin was consistently higher than those expressing sr-actin and troponin-T. Neither the shape nor size of neoplastic RMS cells nor the histopathological types were related to the expression pattern of the investigated markers. RMS with aberrant expression of two or more markers predicted a worse prognosis than RMS in which at most one marker was aberrantly expressed (25 per cent and 54 per cent 10-year survival, P = 0.01). These results demonstrate that HHF35, desmin, sr-actin, and troponin-T have the potential to confirm the commitment of the tumours to the myogenic pathway which supports the diagnosis of RMS. However, it was impossible to relate RMS to equivalent stages of skeletal muscle development. Aberrant marker expression by RMS cells correlated significantly with patients' survival.
Modulation of contractile protein troponin-T in chick myocardial cells by basic fibroblast growth factor and platelet-derived growth factor during development.	We quantified the effect of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) on the contractile protein troponin-T (TnT) at the cellular and subcellular level in cultures of chick embryo cardiomyocytes obtained from Hamburger and Hamilton's (HH) stage 19, 29, and 39 embryos. Because expression of thin-filament molecules is considered a good marker of differentiation in muscle cell cultures, we analyzed the modifications these growth factors induced in the transcription of the gene for chick cardiac TnT. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamate gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and immunoblotting showed that cytoplasmic and cytoskeletal concentrations of TnT are dependent on the stage of embryonic development analyzed and on the type of growth factors added to the culture. The most significant finding was the increase in TnT expression in the cytoplasmic compartment (p < 0.001), accompanied by a slight increase in TnT mRNA, after treatment with bFGF of chick heart cells obtained at HH stage 19. At HH stage 39, bFGF induced less marked changes in the accumulation of TnT in comparison with untreated cardiomyocytes. Our findings support the hypothesis that bFGF plays a role in cardiomyocyte differentiation during early stages of development.
Investigation of the effects of phosphorylation of rabbit striated muscle alpha alpha-tropomyosin and rabbit skeletal muscle troponin-T.	FPLC has been employed to prepare the phosphorylated and unphosphorylated forms of rabbit striated muscle alpha alpha-tropomyosin (TM), and the major isoform of rabbit fast-skeletal-muscle troponin-T (Tn-T2f) and corresponding chymotryptic fragment T1 (residues 1-158), in order to investigate the effects which these in vivo modifications have on thin filament function. In all instances, no significance could be attributed to the presence of a phosphate moiety on acetyl serine 1 of Tn-T (or fragment T1). As expected, fragment T1 increased the relative viscosities of solutions of unphosphorylated alpha alpha-TM, but this induction was noticeably lower for phosphorylated alpha alpha-TM. In affinity chromatography experiments, fragment T1 bound equally well to either form of alpha alpha-TM, but the interaction between fragment T2 (residues 159-259) and phosphorylated alpha alpha-TM was strengthened relative to the control. In the presence of alpha alpha-TM (unphosphorylated), fragment T1 was found to down regulate the actin-activated myosin-S1 MgATPase activity, indicating that this portion of Tn-T possesses modulatory properties. Under the same conditions, less inhibition was observed with phosphorylated alpha alpha-TM. When the two different forms of alpha alpha-TM were reconstituted into a complete regulatory system, the activation of myosin-S1 was double for those thin filaments containing the phosphorylated molecule. Dephosphorylation of the phospho alpha alpha-TM reduced the rates to control values. In ATPase Ca2+ titrations, these systems exhibited no difference in the co-operativity of activation and little or no difference in the pCa2+ 1/2 value. Developmentally linked changes in the steady-state phosphorylation of alpha alpha-TM could be a mechanism to increase the activating propensity of thin filaments, by modifying the functional properties of the T1 section of Tn-T.
Isolation and characterization of human fast skeletal beta troponin T cDNA: comparative sequence analysis of isoforms and insight into the evolution of members of a multigene family.	A cDNA encoding human fast skeletal beta troponin T (beta TnTf) has been isolated and characterized from a fetal skeletal muscle library. The cDNA insert is 1,000 bp in length and contains the entire coding region of 777 bp and 5' and 3' untranslated (UT) segments of 12 and 211 bp, respectively. The 3' UT segment shows the predicted stem-loop structure typical of eukaryotic mRNAs. The cDNA-derived amino acid sequence is the first available sequence for human beta TnTf protein. It is encoded by a single-copy gene that is expressed in a tissue-specific manner in fetal and adult fast skeletal muscles. Although the human beta TnTf represents the major fetal isoform, the sequence information indicates that this cDNA and the coded protein are quite distinct from the fetal and neonatal TnTf isoforms reported in other mammalian fetal muscles. The hydropathy plot indicates that human beta TnTf is highly hydrophilic along its entire length. The protein has an extremely high degree of predicted alpha-helical content involving the entire molecule except the carboxy-terminal 30 residues. Comparative sequence analysis reveals that the human beta TnTf shares a high level of sequence similarity in the coding region with other vertebrate TnTf and considerably reduced similarity with slow skeletal and cardiac TnT cDNAs. The TnT isoforms have a large central region consisting of amino acid residues 46-204 which shows a high sequence conservation both at the nucleotide and amino acid levels. This conserved region is flanked by the variable carboxy-terminal and an extremely variable amino-terminal segment. The tropomyosin-binding peptide of TnT, which is represented by amino acid residues 47-151 and also includes a part of troponin I binding region, is an important domain of this central segment. It is suggested that this conserved segment is encoded by an ancestral gene. The variable regions of vertebrate striated TnT isoforms reflect the subsequent addition and modification of genomic sequences to give rise to members of the TnT multigene family.
Human ventricular myosin light chain isotype 1 as a marker of myocardial injury.	A monoclonal enzyme immunoassay for measuring human ventricular myosin light chain isotype 1 (HVMLC1) in serum has been developed. To evaluate the method in patients with suspected myocardial injury, we studied 51 patients (16 acute myocardial infarction (AMI), 19 unstable angina pectoris (UAP), 9 stable angina pectoris, 3 nonischemic heart disease, 4 hip surgery patients), and 190 controls (blood donors). Serial blood-samples were drawn from patients; a single blood-sample from controls. The diagnostic value of the HVMLC1 assay was compared with total creatine kinase (CK), CKMB activity, CKMB mass concentration, lactate dehydrogenase isoenzyme 1 (LD1), troponin T (TnT) and mitochondrial-aspartate aminotransferase (m-ASAT). The detection limit of HVMLC1 was 0.4 microgram/l (linear range 0-20 micrograms/l). Sera from 190 reference persons did not contain detectable levels of HVMLC1 (< 0.4 microgram/l; 99% percentile). The coefficients of variation were 13% (1.0 microgram/l) and 3.1% (17.7 micrograms/l). Cross-reactivity with myosin from skeletal muscle was seen. Times to peak value were: CK 19.3 +/- 2.0, LD1 43.4 +/- 3.2, HVMLC1 72.9 +/- 7.0, and m-ASAT 67.3 +/- 5.6 h. Time-curves of HVMLC1 and m-ASAT were similar, whereas time-curves for HVMLC1 and TnT were quite different in most cases. Peak value of HVMLC1 was five times higher than CK peak value and eight times that of LD1. HVMLC1 appeared in the blood within hours after the onset of chest pain and in the majority remained for more than a week after AMI. Among patients with UAP 16% (3/19) had elevated HVMLC1 in serum, whereas elevated TnT was seen in 26% (5/19) and elevated CKMB mass in 26% (5/19). We conclude that the new HVMLC1 assay offers a sensitive diagnosis of myocardial injury. It is characterized by a wide diagnostic time window. The similarity of the HVMLC1 and m-ASAT curves indicates that it may be used to estimate the extent of myocardial necrosis.
Troponin T and myoglobin at admission: value of early diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction.	We studied the predictive power at admission of troponin T and myoglobin and compared them with that of CK and CK-MB activity and ECG in 290 consecutive patients admitted for evaluation of a suspected AMI. The likelihood ratio for an ischaemic ECG at admission < 4 h (between 4 and 12 h) after onset of chest pain was 2.85 (1.92), for a inconclusive ECG 1.53 (1.98) and for a normal ECG 0.27 (0.35). In patients admitted < 4 h after onset of chest pain, the likelihood ratio for abnormal and normal myoglobin concentrations (8.06 and 0.67) was considerably better for detection of AMI as defined by the WHO criteria than for the other markers, including the ECG. In patients admitted 4-12 h after onset of chest pain, the likelihood ratios for abnormal and normal myoglobin concentrations were 4.88 and 0.42; for troponin T 3.11 and 0.31; for CK activity 3.44 and 0.49 and for CK-MB activity 4.08 and 0.54 respectively. The sensitivity for troponin T (64%) was better than that of the other markers but its specificity (74%) was worse, because in patients with unstable angina troponin T was frequently elevated (37%). Stepwise logistic regression analysis showed that the best predictors of AMI within 4 h after onset of chest pain were the ECG and myoglobin and between 4-12 h after onset of chest pain the ECG, CK-MB activity and myoglobin.
Early assessment of reperfusion therapy using cardiac troponin T.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the utility of cardiac troponin T for early assessment of reperfusion therapy.
Shed blood autotransfusion influences ischemia-sensitive laboratory parameters after coronary operations.	The diagnostic significance of ischemia-sensitive laboratory parameters in respect to possible interference with shed blood autotransfusion was assessed in a prospective study with 100 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting. Serum levels of creatine kinase, creatine kinase MB activity, creatine kinase MB mass concentration, 2-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, lactate dehydrogenase-1, troponin-T, myoglobin, and glutamicoxaloacetic transaminase were repeatedly assessed up to the sixth postoperative day. Thirty-seven patients were excluded from the study due to postoperative development of myocardial infarction (n = 4), transient ischemic events (n = 25), and left bundle-branch blocks (n = 8). In the remaining group of 63, 37 patients were retransfused with 580 +/- 370 mL shed blood up to the twelfth postoperative hour, and 26 patients did not receive autotransfusion due to minimal mediastinal blood loss. The results of our study show that the ischemia-sensitive laboratory parameters were significantly influenced by shed blood autotransfusion: 8 hours postoperatively, creatine kinase (272%), creatine kinase MB fraction (151%), 2-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase (130%), lactate dehydrogenase-1 (133%), troponin-T (200%), myoglobin (159%) and glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase levels (153%) were significantly elevated (p < 0.05) in patients with postoperative autotransfusion, although there were no electrocardiographic signs of myocardial ischemia in this group of patients. Our study shows that postoperative autotransfusion of mediastinal shed blood may interfere with the diagnosis of perioperative myocardial ischemia by laboratory parameters in coronary bypass patients.
Persistent expression of tissue-specific troponin T isoforms in transplanted chicken skeletal muscle.	This study attempted to investigate the expression of skeletal muscle troponin T isoforms in chicken reared for six months after muscle transplantations of breast muscle into leg muscle, leg muscle into breast muscle, and slow muscle into breast and leg muscles of the same animal. The regenerated muscle after transplantation was studied by histological observation, two-dimensional SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and immunoblotting with anti-troponin T antibodies. Persistent expression of troponin T isoforms specific to donor tissue was observed in the regenerated muscle, and compared with their expression in the normal developing muscles. During the regeneration, the cells grew up and expressed troponin T isoforms in a manner similar to that in normal developing muscles, and on around the 178th day after the transplantation, the regenerated muscle expressed the adult type troponin T isoforms. Based on the troponin T isoforms expressed in the transplants, we consider that one type of skeletal muscle has some inherent potential to grow in and coexist with other types for a long term.
Role of innervation for development and maintenance of troponin subunit isoform patterns in fast- and slow-twitch muscles of the rabbit.	This study investigates the neural influence on the establishment and maintenance of muscle type-specific expression patterns of the three troponin (Tn) subunits, troponin T (TnT), troponin C (TnC), and troponin I (TnI) during postnatal development and in the adult rabbit. For this purpose, we followed changes in the expression of fast and slow TnT, TnC, and TnI isoforms at the protein and mRNA level in slow- and fast-twitch muscles. During postnatal development all fast Tn isoforms increased in fast-twitch muscle. Sequential transitions (TnTs-->TnT3f-->TnT1f) occurred in the TnT isoform pattern. These changes occurred in parallel with sequential transitions in the pattern of myosin heavy chain (HC) isoforms. Neonatal slow-twitch muscle displayed more mature (slow) isoform patterns for both TnT subunits and myosin HCs than fast-twitch muscle. Although the expression of slow TnC in slow-twitch muscle required innervation, denervation had little effect on slow TnT and TnI which seemed to be controlled by an intrinsic program. In fast-twitch muscle, denervation enhanced the expression of all slow Tn subunit isoforms. In addition, it led to a pronounced increase of the slow TnT2s isoform such that the amount of TnT2s exceeded that of TnT1s. The effects of denervation together with previous data on low-frequency stimulated muscle indicate that the expression of fast Tn isoforms in fast-twitch muscle is neurally controlled. The pattern of slow Tn isoforms in slow-twitch muscle seems to be regulated by an intrinsic program and, in addition, by neural influences.
Effect of troponin T-treatment on the composition of rabbit skeletal myofibrils.	The effect of several conditions of troponin T-treatment was examined on the SDS-gel electrophoretic patterns of rabbit skeletal myofibrils. More troponin C and I were removed from the myofibrils after troponin T-treatment at acidic pH (5.6-6.2) than after treatment at neutral pH (6.8-7.4). Incubation of the myofibrils (0.4 mg/ml) in the presence of 0.043 mg/ml troponin T at a pH 6.2 for 60 min at 25 degrees C resulted in the removal of most troponin C and I from the myofibrils. Troponin T1 (N-terminal 158 residue fragment of troponin T of 259 residues) showed much lower troponin C.I removing activity than troponin T.
Linkage map of nine loci defined by polymorphic DNA markers assigned to rat chromosome 13.	A genetic map of nine loci defined by polymorphic DNA markers was created using a single cross of F344/N and LEW/N rats. The markers contained polymorphic simple sequence repeats identified in five genes, renin (Ren), cardiac troponin T (Tnnt3), synaptotagmin (Syt2), Na+,K(+)-ATPase catalytic subunit (Atp1a2), and the Asp-, Gly-, Glu-, and Leu-tRNA gene cluster (Trnegl), as well as four anonymous DNA segments. Analysis of the segregation of the alleles of these markers in F2 intercross progeny of F344/N and LEW/N rats indicated the following locus order and distances between pairs of loci: D13N1-5 cM-Ren-1 cM-Tntt3-0 cM-Syt2-12 cM-D13N2-25 cM-Atp1a2-0 cM-Trnegl-7 cM-D13N3-4 cM-D13N4. Three of the loci, Ren, Trnegl, and Atp1a2, have previously been assigned to rat chromosome 13. Except for Ren, none of the loci have previously been mapped by linkage analysis. The markers for these loci were characterized in a total of 13 inbred rat strains (F344/N, LEW/N, LOU/MN, WBB1/N, WBB2/N, MR/N, MNR/N, ACI/N, SHR/N, WKY/N, BN/SsN, BUF/N, and LER/N) and were found to be highly polymorphic, with two to eight alleles detected for each marker. These markers expand the genetic map of the rat and should be valuable tools for future genetic studies. An examination of human and mouse comparative map information for all loci assigned to rat chromosome 13 shows significant synteny conservation with the q arm of human chromosome 1 and the distal portion of mouse chromosome 1.
The mass concentrations of serum troponin T and creatine kinase-MB are elevated before creatine kinase and creatine kinase-MB activities in acute myocardial infarction.	The time-related frequency of elevated results for the mass concentrations of the MB isoenzyme of creatine kinase and of troponin T were compared with that of creatine kinase and creatine kinase-MB activity in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Patients (322; 175 with and 147 without myocardial infarction) consecutively admitted for evaluation of possible acute myocardial infarction were investigated. Reference limits for troponin T (0.1 microgram/l) and creatine kinase-MB mass concentration (5.0 micrograms/l) were exceeded frequently in patients with unstable angina pectoris (troponin T 43%, creatine kinase-MB mass concentration 24%) in contrast to patients with no acute ischaemic heart disease (both < 5%). Within 4 and between 4-8 hours after onset of chest pain, the frequency of elevated results for creatine kinase-MB mass concentration and troponin T in patients with acute myocardial infarction was considerably higher (20-30%) than for creatine kinase and creatine kinase-MB activity. Creatine kinase-MB mass concentration and troponin T both allowed earlier diagnosis of acute myocardial infarction than creatine kinase and creatine kinase-MB activity, but troponin T was not elevated before the creatine kinase-MB mass concentration.
Cardiac troponin T: a new marker of myocardial tissue damage in bypass surgery.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate cardiac troponin T (TnT) in the diagnosis of minor perioperative myocardial tissue damage and small myocardial infarctions during aortocoronary bypass surgery. In 15 patients without enzymatic or electrocardiographic signs of perioperative myocardial ischemia (group 1, uncomplicated bypass surgery), TnT did not exceed 3.55 micrograms/L. In 3 patients with perioperative non-Q-wave infarctions (group 2), TnT was significantly higher than in group 1 patients. In all 3 patients, TnT peak concentrations exceeded 3.5 micrograms/L. Thirteen patients (group 3, borderline cases) showed either signs of perioperative myocardial ischemia by creatine kinase isoenzyme MB (CKMB) activity levels (CKMB > 20 U/L on the first postoperative day, 3 patients) or by electrocardiography (new ST-T segment alterations, 10 patients). TnT concentrations were comparable to group 1 patients and indicated uncomplicated bypass surgery in all 3 patients with solely elevated CKMB activities. On the other hand, TnT concentrations in 3 patients with electrocardiographic signs of perioperative myocardial ischemia were significantly higher than in uncomplicated patients (group 1) with peak values exceeding 3.5 micrograms/L. Thus, TnT indicated perioperative non-Q-wave infarctions not detected by CKMB activity in these 3 patients. These results are in accordance with findings in nonsurgical patients. They suggest a higher sensitivity and specificity of cardiac TnT compared to CKMB activity in the diagnosis of small perioperative myocardial infarctions after bypass surgery.
Cardiac protection in heart surgery interventions by preventive drug administration before extracorporeal circulation. Studies with troponin T as a parameter for perioperative myocardial damage]	The present study was designed to test if prophylactic intravenous nifedipine or nitroglycerine could reduce myocardial damage after cardiopulmonary bypass. 45 patients scheduled for elective coronary artery bypass grafting were divided at random into three groups: Group 1: control; group 2: nifedipine (0.25 microgram/kg/min); group 3: nitroglycerine (1.5 micrograms/kg/min). Infusion period reached from the beginning of anaesthesia until crossclamp of the aorta. Myocardial damage was estimated by troponin T (TnT), CK-MB and ST-segment analysis of the ECG. TnT is a cardiospecific protein from the contractile apparatus of striated muscle cells. TnT-levels might provide a very sensitive marker of small amounts of cardiac muscle necrosis. It was tested with an ELISA/one-step sandwich-assay with streptavidin-technology [9]. Criteria for ischemia in the ST-segment analysis were (according to Smith et al. [19]): ST-depression > 1 mm from baseline or ST-elevation > 2 mm from baseline at J-point + 60 ms. Statistical interpretation was done by one- and two-factorial analyses of variance (including multivariate analyses of variance). Correlation between two variables was tested by regression analysis. A level of p < 0.05 was taken for indicating statistical significance. Biometrical data, circulation data and data from cardiopulmonary bypass were without significant differences among all groups (Tables 1 and 2). Starting from normal values (< 0.05 ng/ml) TnT significantly rose in all groups immediately after cardiopulmonary bypass and remained elevated until the forth day after operation (values between 0.4 and 0.6 microgram/ml) (Figure 1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Novel developmentally regulated exon identified in the rat fast skeletal muscle troponin T gene.	In theory, the rat fast skeletal muscle troponin T gene can generate 64 different isoforms. Here we report the identification of a novel alternative exon (exon y) that increases the potential isoform variation to 128. The inclusion of exon y in fast skeletal muscle troponin T mRNA occurs in perinatal, but not adult, skeletal muscle. Exon y is located between exons 8 and 9. This is the first time that a developmentally regulated exon located amongst a set of alternatively spliced exons has been described. Exon y is included in two mRNA isoforms. The proteins that these mRNAs would encode have molecular masses greater than that of the largest fast skeletal muscle troponin T isoform lacking exon y. These two proteins correlate well in both size and pattern of expression with the two fast skeletal muscle troponin T isoforms expressed in perinatal skeletal muscle. These results indicate that there is coordinated regulation of the splicing of exon y with other alternative exons.
Serum cardiac troponin-T in coronary artery bypass graft and mitral valve replacement]	Serum cardiac troponin-T was measured to evaluate perioperative myocardial injury in heart surgery. Twelve patients of coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) and nine of mitral valve replacement (MVR) were selected and the measurements were performed at 3 points-before, as well as after the surgery and on the first postoperative day. Elevated serum levels of troponin-T were observed in postoperative measurement in both groups (CABG 2.98 +/- 1.44, MVR 2.57 +/- 0.52 ng.ml-1), where all the preoperative values were less than 0.1 ng.ml-1. On the first postoperative day, CABG group showed a higher serum level of troponin-T than MVR group (6.05 +/- 4.16 vs. 2.57 +/- 2.12 ng.ml-1, P < 0.05 respectively). Taking another myocardial marker, such as CK-MB or myosin light chain I, into consideration, these data indicate that myocardial injury occurs during heart surgery and the grade of injury is severer in CABG than in MVR.
Cardiomyocyte troponin T immunoreactivity is modified by cross-linking resulting from intracellular calcium overload.	During myocardial ischemia, the increase in cytosolic Ca2+ promotes the activation of neutral proteases such as calpains. Since the troponin T subunit is a substrate for calpains, we investigated the effects of irreversible myocyte damage on troponin T immunoreactivity.
Non-invasive diagnosis of infarct artery patency after acute myocardial infarction by use of serial plasma troponin T concentrations: importance of measurement of peak levels.	To confirm the validity of a previously described method for assessment of infarct artery patency involving serial measurements of creatine kinase activity by use of troponin T concentration as an independent plasma marker.
Flanking sequences modulate the cell specificity of M-CAT elements.	M-CAT elements mediate both muscle-specific and non-muscle-specific transcription. We used artificial promoters to dissect M-CAT elements derived from the cardiac troponin T promoter, whose regulation is highly striated muscle specific. We show that muscle-specific M-CAT-dependent expression requires two distinct components: the core heptameric M-CAT motif (5'-CATTCCT-3'), which constitutes the canonical binding site for TEF-1-related proteins, and specific sequences immediately flanking the core motif that bind an additional factor(s). These factors are found in higher-order M-CAT DNA-protein complexes with TEF-1 proteins. Non-muscle-specific promoters are produced when the sequences flanking the M-CAT motif are removed or modified to match those of non-muscle-specific promoters such as the simian virus 40 promoter. Moreover, a mutation of the 5'-flanking region of the cardiac troponin T M-CAT-1 element upregulated expression in nonmuscle cells. That mutation also disrupts a potential E box that apparently does not bind myogenic basic helix-loop-helix proteins. We propose a model in which M-CAT motifs are potentially active in many cell types but are modulated through protein binding to specific flanking sequences. In nonmuscle cells, these flanking sequences bind a factor(s) that represses M-CAT-dependent activity. In muscle cells, on the other hand, the factor(s) binding to these flanking sequences contributes to both the cell specificity and the overall transcriptional strength of M-CAT-dependent promoters.
Altered cardiac troponin T in vitro function in the presence of a mutation implicated in familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) can be caused by dominant missense mutations in cardiac troponin T (TnT), alpha-tropomyosin, C-protein, or cardiac myosin heavy chain genes. The myosin mutations are known to impair function, but any functional consequences of the TnT mutations are unknown. This report describes the in vitro function of troponin containing an IIe91Asn mutation in rat cardiac TnT, corresponding to the HCM-causing Ile79Asn mutation in man. Mutant and wild-type TnT cDNAs were expressed in bacteria and the proteins purified and reconstituted with the other troponin subunits, the mutation had no effect on troponin's affinity for tropomyosin, troponin-induced binding of tropomyosin to actin, cooperative binding of myosin subfragment 1 to the thin filament, CA(2+)-sensitive regulation of thin filament-myosin subfragment 1 ATPase activity, or the CA2+ concentration dependence of this regulation. However, the mutation resulted in 50% faster thin filament movement over a surface coated with heavy meromyosin in in vitro motility assays. The increased sliding speed suggests an unexpected role for the amino terminal region of TnT in which this mutation occurs. The relationship between this faster motility and altered cardiac contraction in patients with HCM is discussed.
Prognostic value of troponin T, myoglobin, and CK-MB mass in patients presenting with chest pain without acute myocardial infarction.	To assess the prognostic value of minor myocardial damage in patients presenting with chest pain without myocardial infarction.
Incremental prognostic value of serum levels of troponin T and C-reactive protein on admission in patients with unstable angina pectoris.	Management of unstable angina is largely determined by symptoms, yet some symptomatic patients stabilize, whereas others develop myocardial infarction after waning of symptoms. Therefore, markers of short-term risk, available on admission, are needed. The value of 4 prognostic indicators available on admission (pain in the last 24 hours, electrocardiogram [ECG], troponin T, and C-reactive protein [CRP]), and of Holter monitoring available during the subsequent 24 hours was analyzed in 102 patients with Braunwald class IIIB unstable angina hospitalized in 4 centers. The patients were divided into 3 groups: group 1, 27 with pain during the last 24 hours and ischemic electrocardiographic changes; group 2, 45 with pain or electrocardiographic changes; group 3, 30 with neither pain nor electrocardiographic changes. Troponin T, CRP, ECG on admission, and Holter monitoring were analyzed blindly in the core laboratory. Fifteen patients developed myocardial infarction: 22% in group 1, 13% in group 2, and 10% in group 3. Twenty-eight patients underwent revascularization: 37% in group 1, 35% in group 2, and 7% in group 2 (p <0.01 between groups 1 or 2 vs group 3). Myocardial infarction was more frequent in patients with elevated troponin T (50% vs 9%, p=0.001) and elevated CRP (24% vs 4%, p= 0.01). Positive troponin T or CRP identified all myocardial infarctions in group 3. Only 1 of 46 patients with negative troponin T and CRP developed myocardial infarction. Among the indicators available on admission, multivariate analysis showed that troponin T (p=0.02) and CRP (p=0.04) were independently associated with myocardial infarction. Troponin T had the highest specificity (92%), and CRP the highest sensitivity (87%). Positive results on Holter monitoring were also associated with myocardial infarction (p=0.003), but when added to troponin T and CRP, increased specificity and positive predictive value by only 3%. Thus, in patients with class IIIB unstable angina, among data potentially available on admission, serum levels of troponin T and CRP have a significantly greater prognostic accuracy than symptoms and ECGs. Holter monitoring, available 24 hours later, adds no significant information.
Can C reactive protein or troponins T and I predict outcome in patients with intractable unstable angina?	To determine whether a single blood test for the measurement of C reactive protein, or troponin I or T concentrations could be used to stratify patients with intractable unstable angina awaiting transfer for coronary angiography by correlating these values with coronary anatomy and transient myocardial ischaemia.
Myocardial protection during antegrade versus retrograde cardioplegia.	It has been suggested that the right ventricular myocardium is suboptimally protected during retrograde blood cardioplegia.
