Roles of the insulinlike growth factor family in nonpregnant human endometrium and at the decidual: trophoblast interface.	The insulinlike growth factor (IGF) family is believed to be important in endometrial development during the menstrual cycle and in the process of implantation. The mitogenic, differentiative, and antiapoptotic properties of the IGFs and their binding proteins, as well as their spatial and temporal expression in cycling endometrium, suggest that they may participate in endometrial growth, differentiation, apoptosis, and perhaps angiogenesis. IGFBP proteases, which increase IGF bioavailability, have been localized to endometrial stromal cells and to the human cytotrophoblast and likely play important roles in endometrial, decidual, and trophoblast physiology. IGFBP-1 is a major protein product of nonpregnant endometrium during the mid-late secretory phase and occurs in abundance in decidua. Its roles as an IGF-binding protein and as a trophoblast integrin ligand suggest that it may have multiple roles in endometrial development and in interactions between the decidua and the invading trophoblast. Recent evidence suggests that it may have a role in the process of shallow implantation in the clinical disorder of preclampsia. In contrast to knowledge about the roles of IGF peptides, IGFBP proteases, and IGFBPs in normal endometrial development and early human pregnancy, little information is available regarding this family in abnormal endometrial development, in occult endometrial defects, and in uterine receptivity and nonreceptivity.
Factors regulating trophoblast migration and invasiveness: possible derangements contributing to pre-eclampsia and fetal injury.	Impaired trophoblast invasiveness and spiral arterial remodelling, which results in poor placental perfusion during early pregnancy, is believed to cause fetal injury and growth retardation, and also endothelial cell activation/dysfunction in a susceptible mother, leading to clinical manifestations of pre-eclampsia. This article briefly reviews the regulatory roles of certain locally active factors in trophoblast migration and invasiveness. This background is then used to discuss and debate whether derangements or dysfunction of some of these factors can manifest as early serum markers predictive of the disease, as opposed to the intermediate and late stage markers which may reflect manifestations and consequences of the disease. Of particular significance are the observed derangements in uPA/uPAR/PAI system, IGFBP-1, HGF, HB-EGF and TGFbeta, factors which are known to regulate trophoblast migration and invasiveness in situ. An emphasis is placed on the need for longitudinal studies in order to identify predictive serum markers which may help strategies for prevention or amelioration of fetal injury and pre-eclampsia.
Placentation in the African elephant (Loxodonta africana): II morphological changes in the uterus and placenta throughout gestation.	The gross and microscopic development of the zonary endotheliochorial placenta in the African elephant was studied in 22 gravid uteri that ranged in gestational stage from 0.5 to 20.6 months. The conceptus only ever occupies one horn of the uterus and is associated with 2-5 large corpora lutea that persist in the ipsilateral ovary throughout gestation. Initially, the trophoblast in the equatorial region of the conceptus completely replaces the lumenal epithelium of the endometrium to which it is apposed. Blunt upgrowths of endometrial stroma then develop, each closely invested by trophoblast, and containing the capillaries that will vascularize this maternal component of the resulting placental band. With advancing gestation the lamellate stromal upgrowths increase markedly in length and become much thinner, thereby bringing the trophoblast into intimate contact with the endothelium of the maternal capillaries. They also become folded or pleated to increase the total area of intimate feto-maternal contact. At the lateral edges of the placental band the lamellae bend over towards the endometrium to form a blind cleft. Leakage of blood into this area creates haemophagous zones in which phenotypically specialized trophoblast cells phagocytose the blood components. The presence of large resorbing blood clots and circumferential scars in the uteri of three post parturient animals initiated the hypothesis that, when the standing elephant gives birth at term, the passage of the 120 kg fetus through the vagina may wrench the placenta off the endometrium by severing its very narrow maternal placental hilus. The resulting intrauterine haemorrhage may then play a role in preventing further conception for around 2 years.
Trophoblastic remodeling in normal and preeclamptic pregnancies: implication of cytokines.	To summarize the recent knowledge on the implications of placenta and cytokines in normal and preeclamptic pregnancies.
Elucidating endometrial function in the post-genomic era.	The post-genomic era has now arrived, and science and biology are on the threshold of a transition from understanding functions of single molecules and pathways in cells, tissues and whole organisms to understanding integrative systems. The endometrium is a dynamic tissue that responds to multiple stimuli, depending on physiological and environmental conditions, including steroid hormones, an implanting conceptus, withdrawal of steroid hormones, contraceptive steroids, selective steroid hormone receptor modulators, infection, transient cell populations, and metaplastic and neoplastic agents. High throughput technologies with regard to DNA, RNA and proteins are well positioned to enable a thorough understanding of the dynamic changes and integrative systems involved in endometrial maturation, desquamation, receptivity to implantation, infertility, pregnancy maintenance and failure, inflammation and infection, and malignant transformation. This monograph reviews some of the salient features of the new technologies and summarizes current information on endometrial biology derived from these approaches.
Human placental syncytiotrophoblast expresses two pharmacologically distinguishable types of Na(+)-H+ exchangers, NHE-1 in the maternal-facing (brush border) membrane and NHE-2 in the fetal-facing (basal) membrane.	We investigated whether highly purified preparations of basal (fetal-facing) membrane isolated from normal term human placentas possess Na(+)-H+ exchanger activity. Uptake of Na+ into basal membrane vesicles was stimulated many-fold by an outwardly directed H+ gradient. This H(+)-gradient-dependent uptake was inhibitable by amiloride and its analogues. Na+ uptake in these vesicles did not occur via a Na+ channel, as it was not influenced by changes in membrane potential and, in addition, was inhibited by benzamil only at high micromolar concentrations. The results indicate that the human placental basal membrane possesses Na(+)-H+ exchanger activity. We then studied whether this exchanger is similar to or distinct from the Na(+)-H+ exchanger described in brush border (maternal-facing) membrane preparations. For this purpose, we compared the pharmacological characteristics of the basal membrane Na(+)-H+ exchanger with those of the brush border membrane Na(+)-H+ exchanger. The basal membrane exchanger was about 20-fold less sensitive to inhibition by amiloride and about 70-fold less sensitive to inhibition by dimethylamiloride than was the brush border membrane exchanger. The exchanger activity in both membrane preparations was inhibitable by clonidine and cimetidine, but the inhibition patterns with these compounds were markedly different between basal and brush border membrane preparations. These data demonstrate that the basal membrane Na(+)-H+ exchanger is distinct from the brush border membrane Na(+)-H+ exchanger. The pharmacological profiles of these exchangers indicate that the human placental brush border membrane possesses the housekeeping or non-epithelial type Na(+)-H+ exchanger (NHE-1), whereas the basal membrane possesses the epithelial or apical type Na(+)-H+ exchanger (NHE-2).
Changes in membrane fluidity and Na+/K(+)-ATPase activity during human trophoblast cell culture.	The human placenta plays an essential role in embryo development, in particular regulating the transport of ions, nutrients and immunoglobulins from the maternal to the fetal circulation. Trophoblast organization into a syncytial layer involves structural and functional steps that may be monitored and elucidated by in vitro studies. The structural stages by which the syncytial trophoblast is formed are not yet understood. In order to clarify the mechanism of trophoblast development, we studied the morphological characteristics of the syncytial trophoblast formation in culture and the functional changes (transport properties and membrane microviscosity) accompanying the structural modifications. By using both 5-nitroxystearate and 16-nitroxystearate as spin labels, we observed an initial increase in membrane order over 0-24 h of culture, which can be associated with two events: recovery of cell membranes from trypsin and initial aggregation of cytotrophoblasts. The similar behaviour of the order parameters determined with both probes indicates that membrane order changes both inside and in the outer part of the lipid bilayer. The subsequent decrease in membrane order observed at 36-48 h might be related to the process of cellular fusion. The increase in sodium/potassium pump activity in the first 24 h of culture might be an expression of cell recovery following trypsin treatment. The subsequent decrease might represent an adaptive mechanism by which metabolic energy is mainly used for morphogenetic changes.
Deoxyribonuclease-hypersensitive sites in the glycoprotein hormone alpha-subunit gene from trophoblastic and nontrophoblastic human tumor cell lines: correlation with expression and effect of chemical inducers.	Human CG is composed of two subunits, alpha and beta. In addition to its eutopic synthesis in normal and malignant trophoblasts, the hormone is produced ectopically by a variety of tumor cell lines of nonplacental origin. Regulation of the alpha CG gene in trophoblasts appears to differ from that in nontrophoblasts. To determine whether these differences are reflected in the chromatin structure at the alpha CG locus, DNase I-hypersensitive sites within this domain were mapped in human tumor cell lines that differentially express the gene. Two hypersensitive sites were detected in DNA from cell lines that produce the alpha-subunit. The latter includes trophoblastic (JAr and JEG-3 choriocarcinoma) and nontrophoblastic (HeLa cervical carcinoma and ChaGo bronchogenic carcinoma) tumor cell lines. The most prominent site (HS 1) was located approximately 100 base pairs upstream from the transcription start site. In trophoblasts, accessibility of HS 1 increased substantially upon induction of the gene by cAMP, likely reflecting alterations in DNA-protein interactions at the cAMP response element and/or tissue-specific enhancer. In nontrophoblasts, where alpha-subunit synthesis is enhanced by sodium butyrate but not by cAMP, neither butyrate nor cAMP altered the accessibility of HS 1. The HS 2 is comprised of multiple sites with weak to moderate DNase sensitivity located downstream at +1600 to +4000 in cell lines that produce alpha-subunit. Cell lines that do not express the alpha CG gene possess a distinct hypersensitive site (HS 3) within the first intron at about +600; these include 3A-Sub-E (SV40 transformed placenta), CBT (glioblastoma multiforme), and CaSki (cervical carcinoma). Cleavage by DNase at HS 1 and HS 2 is not evident in nuclei from cell lines that do not produce alpha-subunit. These results suggest that HS 1 and HS 3 are characteristic of active and inactive states of the alpha CG gene, respectively, and that the accessibility of HS 1 generally correlates with the level of expression.
Choroideremia gene product affects trophoblast development and vascularization in mouse extra-embryonic tissues.	Choroideremia (CHM) is a hereditary eye disease caused by mutations in the X-linked CHM gene. Disruption of the Chm gene in mice resulted in prenatal death of Chm-/Y males and Chm-/Chm+ females that had inherited the mutation from their mothers. Male chimeras and Chm+/Chm- females with paternal transmission of the mutation were viable and had photoreceptor degeneration reminiscent of human choroideremia. Here, we show that Chm-/Y males and Chm-/Chm+ females were retarded at e7.5 and died before e11.5 due to multiple defects of the extra-embryonic tissues. Mutant embryos exhibited deficiency of diploid trophoblasts associated with overabundance of giant cells. In yolk sac and placenta, severe defects in vasculogenesis were obvious. Chm-/Y males exhibited more pronounced phenotypes than Chm-/Chm+ females. The lethal genotypes could be rescued by tetraploid aggregation. Chm-/Chm+ females, but not Chm-/Y males, could also be rescued when their Chm+/Chm- mothers were mated with Mus spretus males. Backcross analysis suggested that the viability of interspecies hybrid Chm-/Chm+ females may be due to expression from the Chm allele on the M. spretus X-chromosome rather than a modifier effect. Our results demonstrate that Chm is essential for diploid trophoblast development and plays a role in the vascularization in placenta and yolk sac.
Changes in the expression and cytological localization of betacellulin and its receptors (ErbB-1 and ErbB-4) in the trophoblasts in human placenta over the course of pregnancy.	Betacellulin (BTC), purified and cloned from mouse beta cell tumor (BTC-JC10), is regarded as a new member of the epidermal growth factor family. The present study was conducted to clarify the expression of BTC and its receptors, ErbB-1 and ErbB-4, in the trophoblasts in the human placenta over the course of pregnancy.
The role of thyroid hormone in trophoblast function, early pregnancy maintenance, and fetal neurodevelopment.	To review the literature on the roles of thyroid hormone in trophoblast function, early pregnancy maintenance, and fetal neurodevelopment.
Exogenous interferon-gamma alters murine inner cell mass and trophoblast development. Effect on the expression of ErbB1, ErbB4 and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (perlecan).	Implantation is a crucial event in human pregnancy. The participation of cytokines in the implantation process has been widely documented, although the role of many of these molecules is still a matter of controversy. In a previous report from our laboratory, we demonstrated that addition of interferon-gamma to the culture medium produces deleterious effects on mouse embryo development. In this study we investigated the effect of this cytokine on outgrowing embryo morphology and on the expression of epidermal growth factor receptors (ErbBs) and heparan sulfate proteoglycan (perlecan) in mouse embryos cultured in vitro. Morphological assessment of inner cell mass and trophoblast development was carried on in-situ fixed and stained outgrowths. Localization of ErbB1, ErbB4 and perlecan on pre- and peri-implantation embryos was investigated by immunocytochemistry. Addition of interferon-gamma produced a deleterious effect on both inner cell mass and trophoblast morphology. Immunostaining demonstrated that ErbB1, ErbB4 and perlecan are present on pre-implantation embryos and blastocysts; interferon-gamma altered the expression of ErbB4 and Perlecan at the blastocyst stage. We propose that the effects produced by this cytokine could be related to the altered acquisition of adhesion competence and low implantation rates observed in certain reproductive immunological disorders.
Trophoblast invasion.	Trophoblast invasion can be seen as a tightly regulated battle between the competing interests of the survival of the fetus and those of the mother. Successful pregnancy is dependent on the trophoblast invading the mother, attaching the pregnancy to the uterus and securing an adequate supply of oxygen and nutrient to the fetus. For successful invasion to occur, extravillous trophoblast has to perform a range of functions; transformation of the maternal spiral arteries, tolerate hypoxia, proliferate and die by apoptosis (programmed cell death), differentiate, adhere to and digest the extracellular matrix, move and interact with the maternal immune system. Each of these functions has multiple overlapping control systems so that trophoblast invasion is a finely controlled balance of competing mechanisms.
Prenatal vitamin C status is associated with placental apoptosis in normal-term human pregnancies.	Pregnancy is associated with increased susceptibility to oxidative stress. Deficiencies in antioxidants during pregnancy and placental oxidant-antioxidant imbalance may impair the development of the fetoplacental unit or the eventual offspring. In order to elucidate the association of prenatal status of vitamin C with the oxidative stress and apoptotic activity in normal full-term placentas, we evaluated the content of placental lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor-1 (LOX-1) and the trophoblast apoptotic index in normal-term human pregnancies. Tissue samples of placentas obtained from 80 normal-term pregnancies were categorized into 40 cases with a lower level of prenatal vitamin C (< 8.997 microg/ml) and 40 cases with a higher level of prenatal vitamin C (> or =11.734 microg/ml). We evaluated the placental LOX-1 content and the trophoblast apoptotic index with Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry, and then determined their correlation with the prenatal status of vitamin C. We confirmed that the trophoblast expression for the endothelial scavenger receptor LOX-1 and the apoptotic activity were significantly lower in the group with a higher prenatal level of vitamin C, indicating that placental oxidative stress and the apoptotic index were associated with the maternal status of vitamin C. We therefore postulate that the maternal status of antioxidant vitamins during pregnancy can affect fetal development.
Georg Schmorl on trophoblasts in the maternal circulation.	Trafficking of cells between the fetus and its mother provides indirect clues to the underlying pathophysiology of pregnancy. Georg Schmorl first documented the presence of fetal cells in the maternal body and emphasized the importance of the placenta in eclampsia. Although his classic paper, written in 1893, is widely cited today, few investigators have actually read the paper, as it was published in German [Schmorl G., Pathologisch-anatomische Untersuchungen über Puerperal-Eklampsie. Verlag FCW Vogel, Leipzig; 1893]. Our goal was to translate the paper into English and critically re-evaluate its conclusions from a 21st century perspective. Schmorl was remarkably astute in his assessment of the pathologic changes that were seen in the 17 women on whom he performed complete autopsies. He found similar severe changes in all of the women, implying a common pathogenesis. This was in direct contrast to the then current doctrine. He was the first to observe the presence of thrombi containing multinucleated syncytial giant cells in the lungs of the women and speculated that they were of placental origin. To support his hypothesis he performed animal experiments. He also recognized that feto-maternal trafficking occurred in normal gestations but was increased in pregnancies affected by eclampsia. Using sophisticated molecular techniques we can now precisely confirm what Schmorl so elegantly described.
PPARs and the placenta.	The discovery of the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) in 1990s provided new insights in understanding the mechanisms involved in the control of energy homeostasis and in cell differentiation, proliferation, apoptosis and the inflammatory process. The PPARs became thus an exciting therapeutic target for diabetes, metabolic syndrome, atherosclerosis, and cancer. Unexpectedly, genetic studies performed in mice established that PPARgamma are essential for placental development. After a brief description of structural and functional features of PPARs, we will summarize in this review the most recent results concerning expression and the role of PPARs in placenta and of PPARgamma in human trophoblastic cells in particular.
Receptor-mediated processing of epidermal growth factor in the trophoblast of the human placenta.	The processing of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and its receptor in human trophoblast during the first trimester and at term was studied using biotin-labeled EGF, an anti-EGF receptor monoclonal antibody and immunohistochemistry. In chorionic villi incubated with EGF-biotin the ligand was first bound to specific receptors on the syncytial surface, which are in contact with the maternal blood. After 2-5 min in the early gestation placenta, EGF-biotin was found at the basal plasma membrane of the syncytium accompanied by a pronounced EGF receptor immunostaining. In contrast, in the term placenta, immunostaining of EGF-biotin as well as EGF receptors was pronounced in the syncytioplasma within 30-60 min following EGF stimulation; in addition, EGF-biotin was found in some syncytial nuclei. These immunostaining reactions were enhanced after lysosomal blockage by chloroquine. The results reveal a transsyncytial, receptor-mediated transfer of EGF from the maternal blood to the cytotrophoblast, the proliferating part of the trophoblast, in the first trimester placenta. However, in the term placenta, the EGF signal seems to be directed primarily to the syncytium, thus probably influencing differentiated functions. In conclusion, the trophoblast examplifies three possible pathways of EGF processing: 1. transcytotic transfer, 2. direct intracellular signalling followed by lysosomal degradation, and 3. nuclear binding.
Mechanisms regulating cytotrophoblast invasion in normal pregnancy and pre-eclampsia.	The placental bed underlies the placenta and includes the decidua basalis and underlying myometrium containing the uterine spiral arteries. For successful human haemochorial placentation, the placental bed spiral arteries must undergo considerable alterations. These physiological modifications are thought to be brought about by the interaction of invasive cytotrophoblast with the spiral artery vessel wall. Failure of spiral artery transformation is thought to play an important role in the sequence of events that gives rise to pre-eclampsia. The mechanisms that control human trophoblast invasion in normal, let alone abnormal pregnancy, are still poorly understood. Much of the information on the early physiological changes within the placental bed comes from studies on intact hysterectomy specimens.(1) Details of such events in late pregnancy and in pregnancies complicated by pre-eclampsia and fetal growth restriction are principally derived from the study of placental bed biopsies taken at Caesarean section. The methods of sampling the placental bed have been reviewed elsewhere.(2) Many investigators have relied on in vitro models of trophoblast invasion. In vitro models can be extremely useful in dissecting out some of these processes but may be open to artefacts. The mechanisms underlying normal and failed trophoblast invasion appear to be complex. In this manuscript the mechanisms that control the invasion of trophoblast into the decidua and myometrium are reviewed. Along with this is a review of the purported mechanisms underlying failed spiral artery transformation. Particular emphasis has been placed on topics that have been best studied.
TGF-beta superfamily expression and actions in the endometrium and placenta.	Transforming growth factor beta (TGFbeta) superfamily members are closely associated with tissue remodelling events and reproductive processes. This review summarises the current state of knowledge regarding the expression and actions of TGFbeta superfamily members in the uterus, during the menstrual cycle and establishment of pregnancy. TGFbetas and activin beta subunits are abundantly expressed in the endometrium, where roles in preparation events for implantation have been delineated, particularly in promoting decidualisation of endometrial stroma. These growth factors are also expressed by epithelial glands and secreted into uterine fluid, where interactions with preimplantation embryos are anticipated. Knockout models and embryo culture experiments implicate activins, TGFbetas, nodal and bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) in promoting pre- and post-implantation embryo development. TGFbeta superfamily members may therefore be important in the maternal support of embryo development. Following implantation, invasion of the decidua by fetal trophoblasts is tightly modulated. Activin promotes, whilst TGFbeta and macrophage inhibitory cytokine-1 (MIC-1) inhibit, trophoblast migration in vitro, suggesting the relative balance of TGFbeta superfamily members participate in modulating the extent of decidual invasion. Activins and TGFbetas have similar opposing actions in regulating placental hormone production. Inhibins and activins are produced by the placenta throughout pregnancy, and have explored as a potential markers in maternal serum for pregnancy and placental pathologies, including miscarriage, Down's syndrome and pre-eclampsia. Finally, additional roles in immunomodulation at the materno-fetal interface, and in endometrial inflammatory events associated with menstruation and repair, are discussed.
Hypoxia represses the differentiation of Rcho-1 rat trophoblast giant cells.	A hypoxic environment is known to be essential for early placentation. A low oxygen tension induces hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1alpha) which may play an important role as a transcription factor in maintaining the proliferative and undifferentiated phenotype in human trophoblasts.
Polycystin-2 cation channel function in the human syncytiotrophoblast is regulated by microtubular structures.	Polycystin-2 (PC2), encoded by PKD2, which is one of the genes whose mutations cause polycystic kidney disease, is abundantly produced in the apical domain of the syncytiotrophoblast (hST) of term human placenta. PC2, a TRP-type (TRPP2) non-selective cation channel, is present in primary cilia of renal epithelial cells, a microtubule-based ancillary structure with sensory function. The hST has abundant cytoskeletal structures, and actin filament dynamics regulate PC2 channel function in this epithelium. However, it is expected that the apical hST excludes microtubular structures. Here, we demonstrated by Western blot and immunocytochemical analyses that hST apical vesicles indeed contain microtubule structural components, including tubulin isoforms, acetylated alpha-tubulin, and the kinesin motor proteins KIF3A and KIF3B. PC2 and tubulin were substantially colocalized in hST vesicles. Treatment of hST vesicles with either the microtubular disrupter colchicine (15 microM) or the microtubular stabilizer paclitaxel (taxol, 15 microM) resulted in distinct patterns of microtubular re-organization and PC2 redistribution. We also observed that changes in microtubular dynamics regulate PC2 channel function. Addition of colchicine rapidly inhibited PC2 channel activity in lipid-bilayer reconstituted hST membranes. Addition of either tubulin and GTP, or taxol, however, stimulated PC2 channel activity in control hST membranes. Interestingly, we found that the kinesin motor protein KIF3A was capable of increasing PC2 channel activity in hST. We believe that the data are the first to provide a direct demonstration of a microtubular interaction with PC2 in the hST. This interaction thus plays an important regulatory role in the control of ion transport in the human placenta.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CALCA) is a proangiogenic growth factor in the human placental development.	Recent studies have shown that homozygous knockout of gene for calcitonin gene-related peptide (CALCA) receptor component, calcitonin receptor-like receptor (CALCRL), led to extreme hydrops fetalis and embryonic death, underlining the critical role of CALCA in embryonic development and fetal growth. The present study was designed to determine the cellular localization of CALCA and its receptor components, CALCRL and receptor activity modifying protein 1 (RAMP1), at the human implantation site during early pregnancy; to assess whether CALCA regulates in vitro angiogenesis of human endothelial cells; and to examine whether CALCA can improve angiogenic imbalance in preeclamptic placental explants. Our studies demonstrated that both protein and mRNA for CALCA were expressed by the villous and extravillous trophoblasts and decidual cells in the first-trimester villous tissues. CALCA receptor components, CALCRL and RAMP1, were expressed by both villous and extravillous trophoblast cells, as well as vascular endothelial cells. CALCA induced both endothelial proliferation and migration in a dose- and time-dependent manner, and it promoted capillarylike tube formation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) on Matrigel. CALCA-induced angiogenesis of human endothelial cells was completely blocked by CALCA antagonist CALCA(8-37). Further, conditioned medium from preeclamptic placental explants significantly inhibited HUVEC capillarylike tube formation compared with gestational age-matched controls, and conditioned medium from preeclamptic placental explants incubated with CALCA significantly improved capillarylike tube formation. We conclude that CALCA induces in vitro angiogenesis by stimulating endothelial cell proliferation, migration, and capillarylike tube formation; thus, CALCA at the human implantation site may constitute a potential autocrine or paracrine mechanism that could modify placental angiogenesis and neovascularization.
Heat shock protein 1 and the mitogen-activated protein kinase 14 pathway are important for mouse trophoblast stem cell differentiation.	Differentiation of trophoblast cells is a critical process for the proper establishment of the placenta and is, therefore, necessary to maintain embryonic development. Trophoblast stem (TS) cells grown in culture can differentiate into different trophoblast subtypes in vitro mimicking normal trophoblast cell differentiation. Therefore, TS cells are a valuable model system that can be used to elucidate genetic factors that regulate trophoblast cell differentiation. Several transcription factors, when analyzed by targeted gene mutation in mice, have resulted in embryonic lethality due to placental defects and, more specifically, defects of the trophoblast lineages. These studies have helped improve our knowledge about trophoblast cell differentiation, but much is still unknown about the specific mechanisms involved. This study uses TS cell culture to detect proteins with differential expression in proliferating and differentiating TS cells in order to identify proteins with potential roles in the differentiation process. We identified four proteins with differential expression: dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase1 (DDAH1), keratin 8, keratin 18, and HSPB1 (also known as heat shock protein 25, HSP25). Further investigation confirmed the presence of HSPB1 protein during in vitro TS cell differentiation. In addition, we confirmed that phosphorylation of HSPB1 and MAP kinase-activated protein kinase 2 (MAPKAPK2) increased in TS cells during differentiation. Inhibition of MAPK14 (also known as p38 MAPK) resulted in a reduction of HSPB1 phosphorylation and an increase in cell death during TS cell differentiation. These results suggest that HSPB1 and the MAPK14 pathway are important during TS cell differentiation.
Influence of progesterone concentrations on secretory functions of trophoblast and pituitary during the first trimester of pregnancy in dairy cattle.	The essential role played by progesterone in the maintenance of pregnancy is unequivocal; however, the effects of progesterone on the secretory patterns of placental and pituitary molecules during the gestation period are not well defined. The objective of this study was to describe pregnancy-associated glycoprotein (PAG) concentrations (measured by RIA-497 and RIA-Pool) in pregnant females with progesterone concentrations lower (low-P4 group, n=20) or higher (high-P4 group, n=17) than the mean of 8.74 ng/mL on Day 21 (AI=Day 0). Luteinizing hormone (LH) and prolactin concentrations were also measured in both groups. Throughout the study period, blood samples were collected on Days 0, 21, 45, 60, and 80 from 37 females that were confirmed to be pregnant. PAG concentrations measured by both RIA-497 and RIA-Pool tended to be higher in high-P4 group than in low-P4 group from Day 30 until Day 80. On Day 80, plasma PAG concentrations that were measured using RIA-497 were observed to be higher (P<0.05) in the high-P4 group than in the low-P4 group (10.2+/-8.7 ng/mL versus 6.9+/-3.8 ng/mL). Concentrations of LH on Day 60 and prolactin on Day 80 were observed to be significantly lower (P<0.05) in the high-P4 group. There was a tendency for the concentrations of LH (Days 45 and 80) and prolactin (Days 30, 45, and 60) to be lower in cows in the high-P4 group than in the low-P4 group. Our results suggest the existence of a relationship among the concentration levels of progesterone, PAG, LH, and prolactin during early pregnancy.
Role of chemokines in the endometrium and in embryo implantation.	Chemokines are well known for their roles in the immune system; convincing evidence has emerged demonstrating a broader role for chemokines in the endometrium, particularly during embryo implantation. This review highlights the evidence on newly defined roles for chemokines in the endometrium during embryo implantation, with particular focus on those chemokines expressed by the endometrium.
Effect of cell-free synchronous uterine flushings and microsurgery on the development of porcine embryos in vitro.	Experiment I was designed to determine if cell-free synchronous uterine flushings contain an embryotoxic substance that is normally screened by the intact zona pellucida. Sixty 4-cell embryos were allocated to three treatment groups: 1) control embryos (n = 20) were cultured in Modified Kreb's Ringer Bicarbonate medium + 10% bovine calf serum (mKRB-BCS), 2) UF embryos (n = 20) were cultured in 80% mKRB-BCS + 20% sterile dialyzed uterine flushings (UF), 3) MicroUF embryos (n = 20) received a microsurgical incision in the zona pellucida and were cultured in 80% mKRB-BCS + 20% UF. Following 72 h in culture at 37 degrees C under a 90% N2, 5% CO2, and 5% O2 atmosphere, the number of nuclei/embryo and the incidence of protrusion of the trophoblast through the zona pellucida (PTZ) were recorded. Addition of UF had no effect on embryo development. A greater (P less than .005) proportion of MicroUF embryos exhibited PTZ as compared to UF and control embryos. Experiment II was devised to further characterize the occurrence of PTZ in Micro porcine embryos. Thirty-three 4- to 10-cell embryos and 14 morulae were distributed across two treatments: 1) control embryos (n = 16 and 6, respectively) were cultured as described in Experiment I; and 2) micro embryos were treated similarly to MicroUF embryos in Experiment I but were cultured in mKRB-BCS only. At the onset of PTZ, embryos were immediately fixed and examined. The proportion of embryos exhibiting PTZ was greater (P less than .007) for Micro versus control embryos.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Is oncofetal fibronectin a trophoblast glue for human implantation?	Using an antibody probe specific for the class of fibronectins that contain the oncofetal domain, it was shown that oncofetal fibronectin (onfFN) is present wherever trophoblasts make contact with extraplacental extracellular matrix (ECM). In normal human implantation sites, onfFN was localized to a highly specific region-the ECM connecting extravilous trophoblasts and trophoblastic cell columns to the uterine decidua. This same zone of onfFN was present in an analogous location in extrauterine gestations. Like these in vivo extravillous trophoblasts, isolated cytotrophoblasts in primary culture synthesized and secreted onfFN as they underwent differentiation. Furthermore, when cocultured with an ECM gel, cytotrophoblast aggregates deposited onfFN at cell-ECM contact sites, resembling early implanting trophoblasts in vivo. In the presence of cyclic AMP agonists, onfFN synthesis was inhibited markedly. It is concluded from these results that onfFN is a trophoblast protein that, under cAMP regulation, could mediate implantation and placental-uterine attachment throughout gestation.
IFPA Award in Placentology Lecture: Biology of the placental syncytiotrophoblast--myths and facts.	About 15 years ago apoptosis was attributed a role in the development of the human placenta. Since then an increasing number of publications has shown that programmed cell death plays an essential role in placental growth and differentiation, especially in the villous trophoblast. During the last ten years a concept was established linking the progress of apoptosis to differentiation of cytotrophoblasts and syncytiotrophoblast. Thus, development and maintenance of the syncytiotrophoblast depends on the precise orchestration of different processes and stages of the apoptosis cascade. This review focuses on the maintenance and growth of the syncytiotrophoblast as well as the deportation of trophoblast material into the maternal circulation. Nuclear morphology is related to transcriptional activity, RNA protection and storage strategies are discussed and the differences between syncytial expression rates of RNA and protein are highlighted. Moreover, deportation of trophoblast fragments is related to the relevant morphological structures (syncytial knots) and to their effects on the maternal system. Finally, different modes of release of trophoblast fragments such as apoptotic, aponecrotic and necrotic are discussed as being responsible for the maternal inflammatory response during pre-eclampsia.
Review: Trophoblast-vascular cell interactions in early pregnancy: how to remodel a vessel.	During the first twenty weeks of human pregnancy, extravillous trophoblasts (EVT) colonise the decidua and remodel the uterine spiral arteries as far as the first third of the myometrium. This process leads to an irreversible vasodilatation, ensuring that maximal blood flow is delivered to the materno-fetal interface at an optimal velocity for nutrient exchange. There is accumulating evidence that subtle changes in vascular structure precede EVT colonisation; however, full physiological transformation is only achieved in the presence of trophoblast. This review discusses the mechanisms employed to facilitate arterial dilatation, including recent data regarding the contribution of vascular cell apoptosis, the importance of elastin catabolism and the source of candidate elastases. It also examines how the complex interplay between EVT, endothelial cells, smooth muscle cells and decidual leukocytes (macrophages and uterine natural killer cells) leads to enhanced receptivity to invasion, vascular cell loss and extracellular matrix remodelling.
Review: LIF and IL11 in trophoblast-endometrial interactions during the establishment of pregnancy.	Blastocyst implantation into the endometrium is critical for the establishment of pregnancy and is tightly regulated by factors within the blastocyst-endometrial micro-environment. Implantation is a continuum involving blastocyst adhesion to the endometrial epithelium followed by trophoblast penetration of the epithelium. The trophoblast proliferates and invades through the endometrium, with a subpopulation acting to remodel the spiral arteries. Trophoblast-endometrial interactions in humans involve carefully orchestrated temporal and spatial alterations in factors that are critical for pregnancy success. Emerging evidence suggests important roles for locally produced cytokines including interleukin 11 and leukemia inhibitory factor in the various stages of implantation. This review focuses on the role of these cytokines in trophoblast-endometrial interactions during the establishment of human pregnancy.
Scaling placental oxygen diffusion to birthweight: studies on placentae from low- and high-altitude pregnancies.	Stereological analysis of tissue sections has been used to estimate partial and total conductances of the human placental oxygen diffusion pathway. Analyses were undertaken for neonates and term placentae from populations living at low (400 m) and high (3600 m) altitude in Bolivia. Relationships between conductances and birthweight (and between trophoblast volume and birthweight) were explored by linear regression analysis and allometry. At both altitudes, the three partial conductances on the maternal side of the oxygen pathway scaled to birthweight in a similar fashion. This similarity did not extend to conductances on the fetal side. Beyond a limiting weight of roughly 3 kg, the highland fetus was disadvantaged in terms of its placental oxygen diffusive conductances and trophoblast volume. The findings support the notion that the structural adaptations seen at high altitude are more successful on the maternal rather than the fetal side of the placenta.
The role of the invasive, placental trophoblast in human pregnancy.	During early pregnancy the placenta-derived extravillous trophoblast starts to invade the maternal uterus in order to regulate adequate blood flow and nutrient supply to the growing fetus. A unique set of events including plugging and remodelling of maternal vessels, regulation of oxygen levels, as well as the crosstalk with maternal decidual cells are thought to be precisely controlled by the invading extravillous trophoblasts. However, defects in these processes can lead to severe complications during pregnancy threatening the well-being of both the mother and the developing fetus. For instance incomplete trophoblast-associated invasion and arterial remodelling are associated with preeclampsia, the most common pregnancy-related complication. Moreover, failure in proper placental development and adequate fetal nutrition could be effective later in life, as growth-restricted neonates have a higher risk to develop adult onset of hypertension, heart disease and diabetes mellitus. Consequently, a detailed understanding of the mechanisms that underlie trophoblast invasion is thought to improve both diagnosis and treatment of various pregnancy-related disorders.
Imaging of vascular development in early mouse decidua and its association with leukocytes and trophoblasts.	In species with endometrial decidualization and hemochorial placentation (humans, mice, and others), leukocytes localize to early implant sites and contribute to decidual angiogenesis, spiral arterial remodeling, and trophoblast invasion. Relationships between leukocytes, trophoblasts, and the decidual vasculature are not fully defined. Early C57BL/6J implant sites were analyzed by flow cytometry to define leukocyte subsets and by whole-mount immunohistochemistry to visualize relationships between leukocytes, decidual vessels, and trophoblasts. Ptprc(+) (CD45(+)) cells increased in decidua between Gestational Day (GD) 5.5 and GD 9.5. Uterine natural killer (uNK) cells that showed dynamic expression of Cd (CD) 69, an activating receptor, and Klrg1 (KLRG1), an inhibitory receptor, localized mesometrially and were the dominant CD45(+) cells between GD 5.5 and GD 7.5. At GD 8.5, immature monocytes that occurred throughout decidua exceeded uNK cells numerically and many leukocytes acquired irregular shapes, and leukocyte-leukocyte conjugates became frequent. Vessels were morphologically heterogeneous and regionally unique. Migrating trophoblasts were first observed at GD 6.5 and, at GD 9.5, breached endothelium, entered vascular lumens, and appeared to occlude some vessels, as described for human spiral arteries. No leukocyte-trophoblast conjugates were detected. Whole-mount staining gave unparalleled decidual vascular detail and cell-specific positional information. Its application across murine models of pregnancy disturbances should significantly advance our understanding of the maternal-fetal interface.
The emerging roles of placenta-specific microRNAs in regulating trophoblast proliferation during the first trimester.	In the human placenta, eight 'placenta-specific' microRNAs (miRNAs) are exclusively expressed and are associated with high cloning frequencies. The expression of placenta-specific miRNAs is known to be involved in preeclampsia, but the understanding of these miRNAs is still limited. The goal of this study was to investigate the levels and localisations of eight placenta-specific miRNAs in placental villi with different proliferative abilities during the first trimester. Immunohistochemical analyses indicated that placental trophoblast proliferation ability was associated with the weight of villi in the same gestational week during the first trimester. Of the eight placenta-specific miRNAs, quantitative real-time RT-PCR demonstrated that the expression of miR-517b and miR-1283 was increased in the lightest villi and decreased in the heaviest one, the expression of miR-519a was increased in the heaviest villi and decreased in the lightest one. In situ hybridisation analysis showed that miR-517b and miR-519a were located primarily in the trophoblast layer, while miR-1283 were expressed not only in the villous trophoblasts but also in some villous stroma cells. These findings suggest that miR-517b and miR-519a may play an important role in trophoblast proliferation during the first trimester.
The role of apoptosis on trophoblast cell invasion in the placental bed of normotensive and preeclamptic pregnancies.	Placental development depends on careful coordination of trophoblast proliferation and apoptosis; however, the synchrony of its effect on trophoblast invasion is unknown.
Undermethylation of structural gene sequences in extraembryonic lineages of the mouse.	The first two lineages to differentiate in the mouse embryo are the trophectoderm and primitive endoderm, which give rise to various extraembryonic structures only. Previous work has shown that all derivatives of these two lineages share the property of undermethylation of repetitive DNA sequences, both satellite and dispersed. Here we show that this undermethylation is not a peculiarity of these repetitive elements but is also a feature of structural gene sequences within both lineages. alpha-Fetoprotein, albumin, and major urinary protein gene sequences all showed extensive undermethylation at MspI restriction sites in extraembryonic lineages, which did not correlate with their expression in these tissues. The same sequences were heavily methylated in embryonic tissues as early as 7.5 days of development. There are, therefore, major global differences in DNA methylation between the earliest cell lineages to be established in the mouse embryo. The significance of these differences for cellular commitment events remains to be elucidated.
A small physiological electric field mediated responses of extravillous trophoblasts derived from HTR8/SVneo cells: involvement of activation of focal adhesion kinase signaling.	Moderate invasion of trophoblast cells into endometrium is essential for the placental development and normal pregnancy. Electric field (EF)-induced effects on cellular behaviors have been observed in many cell types. This study was to investigate the effect of physiological direct current EF (dc EF) on cellular responses such as elongation, orientation and motility of trophoblast cells. Immortalized first trimester extravillous trophoblast cells (HTR-8/SVneo) were exposed to the dc EF at physiological magnitude. Cell images were recorded and analyzed by image analyzer. Cell lysates were used to detect protein expression by Western blot. Cultured in the dc EFs the cells showed elongation, orientation and enhanced migration rate compared with non-EF stimulated cells at field strengths of 100 mV/mm to 200 mV/mm. EF exposure increased focal adhesion kinase (FAK) phosphorylation in a time-dependent manner and increased expression levels of MMP-2. Pharmacological inhibition of FAK impaired the EF-induced responses including motility and abrogated the elevation of MMP-2 expression. However, the expression levels of integrins like integrin α1, α5, αV and β1 were not affected by EF stimulation. Our results demonstrate the importance of FAK activation in migration/motility of trophobalst cells driven by EFs. In addition, it raises the feasibility of using applied EFs to promote placentation through effects on trophoblast cells. 
Human chorionic somatomammotropin gene expression in primary placental cell cultures.	Mono-nucleated cytotrophoblasts (cytoTBs) were prepared by Percoll gradient fractionation of enzymically disaggregated human placental tissue. These cells were plated in monolayer culture in the presence of fetal calf and calf serum. Within 2-24 h, the cytoTBs aggregate, and by 48 h, they are clearly fused into multinucleated syncytia. The presence of human chorionic somatomammotropin (hCS) and chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) in the cells after 48 h was determined by immunohistochemistry. To assess whether hCS is synthesized in our cultures we examined hCS mRNA accumulation with time. The presence of hCS mRNA was detected at the time of plating but full length transcripts were seen only at later times indicating synthesis in culture. However, preparations at the time of plating contain fragments of syncytiotrophoblast (syncytioTB) generated by enzymic or mechanical disaggregation. These fragments could fuse with the cytoTBs. The inclusion of these fragments makes analysis of placental hormones by protein detection an unreliable assay for synthesis. Analysis of mRNA levels support hCS synthesis in culture and correlates with aggregation and fusion of cytoTBs. Thus, the fused cells in culture mimic the cellular site of hCS synthesis in vivo, the syncytioTB.
Placentation.	Placental development differs greatly among members of different taxa. Not only does blastocyst attachment take place at different times, the penetration of trophoblast varies considerably. From an epitheliochorial relationship between fetus and mother to the hemochorial placentation of taxa, such as the higher primates, the trophoblast becomes increasingly exposed to maternal immune recognition which may be one cause of rejection in interspecific embryo transfers or hybridization. Shape of uterus and endometrium and genetic factors govern the morphologic form of the placenta. The paper reviews ungulate placentation, successes and failures of interspecific embryo transfers, and the scant knowledge of genetic determinants in primate placentas.
Trophoblast regeneration by inner cell masses isolated from cultured mouse embryos.	The developmental potential of the inner cell mass (ICM) of the cultured mouse embryo was determined by testing the ability of the ICM to regenerate trophoblast in vitro. ICM's isolated by immunosurgery from either single or chimeric embryos were able to regenerate trophoblast when they were isolated at 69 hours of culture from the 2-cell stage, but they had lost this capacity by 93 hours of culture. Trophoblast regeneration by isolated ICM's did not appear to require either a critical cell mass at the time of isolation or cell proliferation during regeneration.
Interspecific hybrids and chimeras in mice.	Interspecific hybrids and chimeras in mammals provide unique tools for investigating problems in genetics and embryology, because of the degree of disparity between the two component genotypes. We have attempted to produce hybrids and chimeras between Mus musculus, the laboratory mouse, and Mus caroli, a wild species of mouse from Southeast Asia. M. musculus and M. caroli do not normally interbreed, although sterile hybrids can be produced at a low rate by artificial insemination. Extrinsic problems of genotypic incompatibility between the fetus and the maternal environment seem to be involved in poor hybrid survival, since M. caroli blastocysts also die when transferred to the M. musculus uterus. Death is associated with the generation of maternal T-cells which are cytotoxic to M. caroli target cells in vitro. It is not yet clear whether this immune response is the primary cause of death or is secondary to breakdown of some other components of the fetal-maternal interaction. It is clear, however, that it is the trophoblast layer that mediates survival or death of the foreign embryonic cells in the M. musculus juterus, since M. caroli inner cell mass cells can survive to term after injection into M. musculus blastocysts: Viable interspecific chimeras result. Even more convincing evidence is provided by the production of viable M. caroli offspring by trophoblast vesicle reconstitution using trophoblast of M. musculus genotype and inner-cell mass of M. caroli type. Studies of properties of isolated trophoblast tissues have indicated that M. caroli trophoblast may differ from M. musculus in both its antigenic and immunosuppressive properties. Elucidation of trophoblast-uterine interactions in these various interspecific pregnancies is being aided by the development of an in situ marker system, which can distinguish cells of the two species in sectioned material by in situ hybridization with a M. musculus satellite DNA probe. This same marker is also proving a very powerful tool for analyzing cell lineage development in chimeras.
GATA factor activity is required for the trophoblast-specific transcriptional regulation of the mouse placental lactogen I gene.	The molecular determinants governing tissue-specific gene expression in the placenta are at present only poorly defined, particularly with respect to the regulation of specific hormone genes whose products are vital to embryonic development and the maintenance of a nurturing maternal environment. In continuing our analysis of the trophoblast-specific expression of the mouse placental lactogen I gene, we now demonstrate that the transcription factors GATA-2 and GATA-3 regulate the activity of this gene promoter. These factors are expressed in placental trophoblast cells, with peak levels of the GATA-2, GATA-3 and placental lactogen I mRNAs each accumulating at midgestation. Analysis of a region of the placental lactogen I gene promoter, previously shown to be sufficient for directing trophoblast-specific transcription, revealed the presence of three consensus binding sites for GATA-2 or GATA-3. Both GATA-2 and GATA-3 bind to these sites in vitro and mutation of these sites results in a significant decrease in promoter activity as assayed by transient transfection into the choriocarcinoma-derived cell line Rcho-1, which expresses endogenous GATA-2 and GATA-3. Furthermore, overexpression of GATA factors in Rcho-1 cells stimulates transcription from a co-transfected placental lactogen I gene promoter. Most significantly, expression of GATA-2 or GATA-3 was found to induce transcription from this promoter in transfected non-trophoblast (fibroblast) cells. These data indicate that GATA factors are both limiting and required transcriptional regulatory molecules in placental trophoblasts, and that the tissue specificity of the placental lactogen I gene is determined, at least in part, by GATA-2 and/or GATA-3.
Possible role and mechanism of inactivation of decidual NK cells in pregnancy.	Decidual NK cells are present in murine decidua in early pregnancy, but they decline by midpregnancy. The participation of these cells in rapid rejection of abnormal fetuses and possible cytolitic activity of these cells to trophoblasts seems unlikely. But, their production of cytokines (like CSF-1, which promote differentiation and growth of trophoblasts cells) may be the primary role of decidual NK cells in time of establishment of fetal-maternal connection. Later, inactivation of decidual NK cells by prostaglandins prevents damage of embryos.
A scanning electron microscopy study of interactions between mouse granulated metrial gland cells and placental trophoblast cells in vitro.	Mouse granulated metrial gland cells were cocultured with labyrinthine placental cells and cell-cell contacts examined by scanning electron microscopy. Intimate contacts between granulated metrial gland cells and placental cells were observed and in some of these, differences in the surface morphology of the granulated metrial gland cells were observed. Some contact areas were suggestive of the granulated metrial gland cell monitoring the surface of potential target placental trophoblast cells prior to lysis.
A protein involved in calcium sensing of the human parathyroid and placental cytotrophoblast cells belongs to the LDL-receptor protein superfamily.	Monoclonal anti-parathyroid antibodies have been utilized to isolate a single-chain glycoprotein of 500 kDa, which apparently acts as a sensor of the extracellular calcium concentration and is expressed on the surface of human parathyroid, placental, and kidney tubule cells. The present contribution reports the isolation of a cDNA clone encoding this protein in human placenta and subsequent Northern blots confirming the mRNA expression also in human parathyroid and kidney cells. Close similarity in sequence as well as in tissue distribution is demonstrated with the rat Heymann nephritis antigen, a kidney tubule glycoprotein with calcium-binding ability. The 500-kDa protein belongs to the LDL-receptor superfamily of glycoproteins, claimed to function primarily as protein receptors and characterized by functionally important calcium-binding capacity. It is proposed that the currently identified protein constitutes part of a common structure for the sensing of extracellular calcium concentrations and influences calcium homeostasis in different organs.
Cultured human trophoblast cells reproduce the initial events of placental biology.	The objective of this study was to determine whether cultured trophoblast cells shared the same morphological and biological properties observed in trophoblast, in vivo.
Function of the corpus luteum, the endometrium and the trophoblast after treatment of tubal pregnancy by prostaglandin F2 alpha.	The activity of the corpus luteum, the endometrium and the trophoblast was studied after local medical treatment of 31 women with tubal pregnancy. We measured the serum concentration of progesterone, the secretory endometrial protein placental protein 14 (PP14), and human chorionic gonadotrophin (HCG) before and after treatment by injection of prostaglandin F2 alpha into the site of the gestation and into the corpus luteum. There was no significant difference in the pre-treatment serum progesterone and serum PP14 concentrations of 26 women who were treated successfully and of five women, who were operated on after failure of the treatment. After the prostaglandin treatment the serum progesterone and PP14 concentrations decreased simultaneously with the serum HCG concentration or remained at a low, constant concentration. We conclude that measurement of serum progesterone and PP14 cannot be used for selection of patients for treatment by prostaglandin F2 alpha or for monitoring the effect of the treatment. The injection of prostaglandin into the ovary has either no effect on the activity of the corpus luteum or induces only a partial luteolysis.
Studies on placental inhibition of platelet aggregation: a comparison of human syncytiotrophoblast brush border and basal plasma membranes.	We compared the platelet aggregation inhibiting activity of human placental syncytiotrophoblast brush border membrane vesicles (BBMV) and basal plasma membrane vesicles (BpMV), and obtained the following results. Strong platelet aggregation inhibiting activity is found in placental BBMV. BBMV inhibited platelet aggregation induced by ADP (adenosine diphosphate) and arachidonic acid in a way which depended on the protein concentration of BBMV added. In contrast, BpMV showed no detectable platelet aggregation inhibiting activity. Quite high ADP degrading activity (ADPase activity) was present in the placental BBMV. ADP was quickly degraded by BBMV. In contrast, BpMV did not degrade ADP so quickly. Platelet TXB2 production was almost completely abolished at the protein concentration of 40 micrograms/ml of BBMV. In contrast, BpMV did not significantly inhibit platelet TXA2 (TXB2) production. These results show that syncytiotrophoblast brush border and basal plasma membranes of the human placenta have markedly different properties with respect to platelet aggregation inhibiting activity.
Developmental regulation of integrin expression at the time of implantation in the mouse embryo.	The trophectoderm layer of the mouse blastocyst differentiates at the late blastocyst stage to form the invasive trophoblast that mediates implantation of the embryo into the uterine wall. The first sign that trophoblast cells have developed an invasion-specific cell behavior appears about 10-15 hours after the embryo hatches from the zona pellucida, when the quiescent, non-adherent trophectoderm cells initiate protrusive activity and become adhesive to extracellular matrix. Our previous findings that trophoblast outgrowth on extracellular-matrix-coated substrata involves the integrin family of adhesion receptors (Sutherland, A. E., Calarco, P. G. and Damsky, C. H., 1988, J. Cell Biol. 106, 1331-1348), suggested that the onset of trophoblast adhesive and migratory behavior at the time of implantation may be due to changes in expression or distribution of integrin receptors. We have thus examined the mRNA and protein expression of individual integrin subunits during pre- and periimplantation development (E0-E7.5). A basic repertoire of integrins, including receptors for fibronectin (alpha 5 beta 1), laminin (alpha 6B beta 1) and vitronectin (alpha v beta 3), was expressed continuously throughout this period, whereas the expression of five other integrin subunits was developmentally regulated. The mRNA for three of these (alpha 2, alpha 6A and alpha 7) was first detected in the late blastocyst, coincident with endoderm differentiation and development of attachment competence. The mRNA for another (alpha 1) was not detected until after trophoblast outgrowth had begun, suggesting that its expression may be induced by contact with matrix. At E7.5, three of the temporally regulated integrins (alpha 1, apha 6A, alpha 7), all of which can form receptors for laminin, were detected only in the ectoplacental cone (differentiating trophoblast), and may thus play specific roles in trophoblast adhesion and/or differentiation. Because laminin expression is upregulated in decidualized uterine stroma in response to the implanting embryo, we examined trophoblast-laminin interactions, using laminin fragments and integrin antibodies to determine which integrin receptors were involved. Trophoblast cells attached and spread on both the E8 and P1' fragments of laminin; however, the P1' binding site was cryptic in intact laminin. Interaction with P1' was RGD- and alpha v beta 3-dependent, whereas outgrowth on E8 was RGD-independent and not inhibited by antibodies to the laminin receptor alpha 6 beta 1, suggesting that alpha 7 beta 1 is the major trophoblast integrin E8 receptor.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
First trimester utero-placental circulation: maternal-fetal interaction.	Progressive development of embryonal and maternal circulations is essential for normal pregnancy outcome. The early embryo and trophoblast are very sensitive to the conditions under which they grow and differentiate. The most crucial event in human ontogeny is trophoblast invasion, a process that will enable chorionic and maternal circulations to develop in a synchronized fashion, balancing the metabolic needs with the capability to defend against oxidative stress. Trophoblast invasion transforms the spiral arteries into low resistance vessels, a change necessary for establishment of continuous forward blood flow once the villi are anchored and have obtained defense mechanisms against oxidative insult. Based on a review of current knowledge of human trophoblast and embryonic growth and development of embryonic and maternal placental circulations it seems that human ontogeny occurs in a low oxygen environment during the initial stages of pregnancy. This is similar to the environment in which the first single cell organisms appeared and it remains to be seen if the development process of the primitive single cell organisms, and its energy generating processes, is an appropriate model for studying early human ontogeny.
