Cyclic AMP/PKA-dependent paradoxical activation of Raf/MEK/ERK signaling in polycystin-2 defective mice treated with sorafenib.	Mutations in polycystins are a cause of polycystic liver disease. In polycystin-2 (PC2)-defective mice, cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)/protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent activation of the Rat Sarcoma (Ras)/rapidly accelerated fibrosarcoma (Raf)/mitogen signal-regulated kinase-extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) 1/2 pathway stimulates the growth of liver cysts. To test the hypothesis that sorafenib, a Raf inhibitor used for the treatment of liver and kidney cancers, inhibits liver cyst growth in PC2-defective mice, we treated PC2 (i.e., Pkd2(flox/-) :pCxCreER(TM) [Pkd2cKO]) mice with sorafenib-tosylate for 8 weeks (20-60 mg/kg/day). Sorafenib caused an unexpected increase in liver cyst area, cell proliferation (Ki67), and expression of phosphorylated ERK (pERK) compared with Pkd2cKO mice treated with vehicle. When given to epithelial cells isolated from liver cysts of Pkd2cKO mice (Pkd2cKO-cells), sorafenib progressively stimulated pERK1/2 and cell proliferation [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tetrazolium and bromodeoxyuridine assay (MTS)] at doses between 0.001 and 1 μM; however, both pERK1/2 and cell proliferation significantly decreased at the dose of 10 μM. Raf kinase activity assay showed that whereas B-Raf is inhibited by sorafenib in both wild-type (WT) and Pkd2cKO cells, Raf-1 is inhibited in WT cells but is significantly stimulated in Pkd2cKO cells. In Pkd2cKO cells pretreated with the PKA inhibitor 14-22 amide, myristolated (1 μM) and in mice treated with octreotide in combination with sorafenib, the paradoxical activation of Raf/ERK1/2 was abolished, and cyst growth was inhibited.
Polycystin-1 binds Par3/aPKC and controls convergent extension during renal tubular morphogenesis.	Several organs, including the lungs and kidneys, are formed by epithelial tubes whose proper morphogenesis ensures correct function. This is best exemplified by the kidney, where defective establishment or maintenance of tubular diameter results in polycystic kidney disease, a common genetic disorder. Most polycystic kidney disease cases result from loss-of-function mutations in the PKD1 gene, encoding Polycystin-1, a large receptor of unknown function. Here we demonstrate that PC-1 has an essential role in the establishment of correct tubular diameter during nephron development. Polycystin-1 associates with Par3 favouring the assembly of a pro-polarizing Par3/aPKC complex and it regulates a programme of cell polarity important for oriented cell migration and for a convergent extension-like process during tubular morphogenesis. Par3 inactivation in the developing kidney results in defective convergent extension and tubular morphogenesis, and in renal cyst formation. Our data define Polycystin-1 as central to cell polarization and to epithelial tube morphogenesis and homeostasis. 
