Morphogenesis of the truncus arteriosus of the chick embryo heart: movements of autoradiographic tattoos during septation.	In order to trace tissue movements during septation of the embryonic truncus arteriosus into aortic and pulmonary cardiac outlets, the cephalic margin of the developing tubular heart of chick embryos was tattooed at Hamilton-Hamburger Stages 20-22 using diffusion micropipettes filled with 0.5% agarose and radioactive macromolecular precursors (tritiated thymidine, uridine, and leucine). Following further incubation for 2, 48, or 96 hours, the locations of such tattoos were determined by autoradiography of sectioned tissue and computer reconstruction of the developing outflow tract. Two hours after tattooing, radiolabeled cells were clustered at the right distal margin of the myocardial tube, as intended. Two days later, during septation of the outflow tract into the two arterial streams, label was concentrated along the posterior margin of the myocardium, between the developing aortic and pulmonary valve anlagen to the embryo's right and left, respectively. Four days following tattooing, as truncal septation neared completion, remaining label was found primarily to the left of the aortic valve ring posterior to the pulmonary outlet. The movements of thymidine tattoos during septation were demonstrated in a series of 31 embryos, 14 fixed at 2 hours, 12 at 2 days, and 5 at 4 days following tattooing; similar results were seen in uridine and leucine labeled hearts. The motion of such tattoos in the developing chick heart suggests that the left side of the definitive semilunar valve ring derives from the right distal margin of the primitive tubular heart and that normal morphogenesis of the great arterial streams involves both retraction and rotation of the embryonic truncus arteriosus.
Experimental study of the development of the truncus arteriosus of the chick embryo heart. I. Time of appearance.	The time of appearance of the truncus arteriosus was studied in the chick embryo using an in ovo labeling technique. Three hundred embryos at stages 13-18 of Hamburger and Hamilton were selectively labeled at the distal end of the heart tube, using gelatine-india ink label; 122 of these embryos were reincubated and 111 of them reached stages 25-28. In these stages the final location of the label was determined. Only 95 of these embryos showed both a normal heart and a label located in it. The remaining embryos were discarded due to abnormal cardiac morphology or because the label was not found. Embryos labeled at stages 13-14 had label in the conus in 42.8% of the cases and in the boundary between the conus and the truncus arteriosus in 57.1% of the cases. Label placed at stages 15-16 was located in the conus in 6.1% of the cases, in the boundary between the conus and the truncus arteriosus in 44.8% of the cases, and in the truncus arteriosus in 48.9% of the cases. Finally, label placed at stages 17-18 was located in the boundary between the conus and the truncus arteriosus in 18.7% of the cases and in the truncus arteriosus in 81.2% of the cases. Our results permit us to conclude that the truncus arteriosus appears in the chick embryo as early as stages 15-16 of Hamburger and Hamilton (50-56 hours of incubation).
