Extreme windkessel effect can cause right heart failure early after truncus repair.	An infant developed severe right heart failure early after truncal repair with a pulmonary homograft. A mechanical obstruction by narrowing could not be identified at the homograft or pulmonary arteries. However, functional obstruction was caused by an extreme windkessel effect in a massively dilated homograft that absorbed rather than transmitted the pulse wave. Effective treatment consisted of replacing the dilated homograft by a rigid aortic homograft of equal size as the initial homograft. When confronted with circulatory failure after allograft placement, the clinician should not only look for obstruction by narrowing, but also consider the windkessel phenomenon.
Cardiac emergencies.	The diagnosis and management of pediatric cardiac emergencies can be challenging and complicated. Early presentations are usually the result of ductal-dependent lesions and appear with cyanosis and shock. Later presentations are the result of volume overload or pump failure and present with signs of congestive heart failure. Acquired diseases also present as congestive heart failure or arrhythmias. 
Changes in the aortic arch in chick embryos resulting from modified hemodynamic factors]	Hemodynamic factors acting as modelator agents in the outflow region of great vessels and aortic arches have been studied by many authors. In our study, we have tried to analyse the influence which a modification of some of these factors, as it is an increased blood volume, could cause on truncus and aortic arches, by means of the perfusion of blood from chick embryos of 12-15 days of incubation to receptor embryos between stages 22-29 of HH. We have obtained a malformation percentage smaller than expected, on the basis of bibliographic data, so we now believe that hemodynamic factors, by themselves, don't play a role in the definitive morphogenesis and septation of great vessels and its main branches as important as believed until present time.
