Skeletal muscle ultrastructural pathology in mice infected with Trypanosoma evansi.	An ultrastructural study of skeletal muscle alterations wascarried out in mice experimentally infected with Trypanosoma evansi. Manifested anomalies were found, in both muscle fibre and microvasculature. Muscle fibre changes included atrophy, autophagic vacuoles formation, mitochondrial degeneration, nuclei pyknosis and segmental necrosis. In another direction, the cytoplasm of capillary endothelial cells showed rough endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondrial swelling, as well as luminal infoldings; parasites were found in the endothelial cell cytoplasm. A mononuclear infiltrate, formed by macrophages and neutrophils, was also observed. This work shows that skeletal muscle is an important target tissue for Trypanosoma evansi.
Pathology of experimental Trypanosoma evansi infection in rabbits.	Histopathological examination of tissue sections from the organs of rabbits experimentally infected with Trypanosoma evansi revealed evidence of a vigorous immunological response. Changes in the spleen, lymph nodes, vulva, eyelids and ears indicated a protective immune response, but changes in the kidneys, lungs and heart were destructive in nature and capable of causing sudden death of the host. Hepatic damage capable of interfering with the host's immune response was also observed. The presence of many parasites in the vulval tissue calls for further investigation into the possibility of sexual transmission of T. evansi.
Pathological findings associated with experimental infection by Trypanosoma evansi in cats.	Five cats were experimentally inoculated with Trypanosoma evansi in order to evaluate the pathological changes induced by this protozoan infection. Clinical signs observed included vomiting, diarrhoea, hyperthermia, weight loss, facial oedema, corneal opacity, lymphadenopathy and hindlimb instability. Reduction in hematocrit was observed from 7 days post-infection (dpi) (P<0.05). One cat died at 40 dpi and the other four cats were humanely destroyed. Necropsy examination was performed in two cats at 56 dpi and two cats at 120 dpi. Gross findings in all cats included generalized muscle atrophy, pale mucosae, icterus of the subcutaneous and serosal tissue and the intima of arteries, lymphadenopathy and splenomegaly. Other findings included corneal opacity, subcutaneous oedema (mainly of the head) and hydropericardium. Trypomastigotes of T. evansi were observed in impression smears prepared from the aqueous humor. Microscopically, there was lymphoid hyperplasia of the spleen and lymph nodes. The animals with corneal opacity had mild corneal oedema and accumulation of fibrin and inflammatory cells (neutrophils and plasma cells) in the anterior chamber. Similar inflammatory cells infiltrated the iris, ciliary body, corneoscleral limbus and conjunctiva.
