Variation in susceptibility to benznidazole in isolates derived from Trypanosoma cruzi parental strains.	In this work, the susceptibility to benznidazole of two parental Trypanosoma cruzi strains, Colombian and Berenice-78, was compared to isolates obtained from dogs infected with these strains for several years. In order to evaluate the susceptibility to benznidazole two groups of mice were infected with one of five distinct populations isolated from dogs as well as the two parental strains of T. cruzi. The first group was treated with benznidazole during the acute phase and the second remained untreated controls. The animals were considered cured when parasitological and serological tests remained persistently negative. Mice infected with the Colombian strain and its isolates Colombian (A and B) did not cure after treatment. On the other hand, all animals infected with Berenice-78 were cured by benznidazole treatment. However, 100%, 50% and 70% of cure rates were observed in animals infected with the isolates Berenice-78 B, C and D, respectively. No significant differences were observed in serological profile of infected control groups, with all animals presenting high antibody levels. However, the ELISA test showed differences in serological patterns between mice inoculated with the different T. cruzi isolates and treated with benznidazole. This variability was dependent on the T. cruzi population used and seemed to be associated with the level of resistance to benznidazole.
Stage determination and therapeutic decision in human African trypanosomiasis: value of polymerase chain reaction and immunoglobulin M quantification on the cerebrospinal fluid of sleeping sickness patients in Côte d'Ivoire.	In human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), two disease stages are defined: the first, or haemo-lymphatic stage, and the second, or meningo-encephalitic stage. Stage determination forms the basis of therapeutic decision and is of prime importance, as the drug used to cure second-stage patients has considerable side-effects. However, the tests currently used for stage determination have low sensitivity or specificity. Two new tests for stage determination in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were evaluated on 73 patients diagnosed with HAT in Côte d'Ivoire. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) detecting trypanosome DNA (PCR/CSF) is an indirect test for trypanosome detection whereas the latex agglutination test detecting immunoglobulin M (LATEX/IgM) is an indicator for neuro-inflammation. Both tests were compared with classically used tests, double centrifugation and white blood cell count of the CSF. PCR/CSF appeared to be the most sensitive test (96%), and may be of use to improve stage determination. However, its value for therapeutic decision appears limited, as patients whose CSF was positive with PCR were successfully treated with pentamidine. This result confirms those of previous works that showed that some patients with trypanosomes in the CSF could be treated successfully with pentamidine. LATEX/IgM, which depending on the cut-off, showed lower sensitivity of 76% and 88%, but higher specificity of 83% and 71% for LATEX/IgM 16 and LATEX/IgM 8 respectively, appears more appropriate for therapeutic decision making.
Benznidazole, a drug used in Chagas' disease, ameliorates LPS-induced inflammatory response in mice.	Benznidazole (BZL) is a drug currently used for treating Chagas' disease. Given our earlier demonstration in which BZL downregulated cytokine and nitric oxide (NO) synthesis by LPS and/or IFN-gamma-stimulated murine macrophages, we have now analysed whether this compound could exert beneficial effects in a model of LPS-induced inflammation in C57BL/6 mice. The lethal model consisted of two LPS intraperitoneal injections, 200 microg each separated by 2 h, with BZL given orally at a dose of 200 mg/kg, 18 and 2 h before the first challenge and 20 and 44 hr following the second one. In this model, BZL treatment led to a significantly decreased mortality in comparison with untreated counterparts. Remaining experiments were carried out in mice given a unique LPS dose, pretreated with BZL or not, since those subjected to the lethal protocol were unsuitable for laboratory handling. Analysis of IL-1beta, IL-6, TNF-alpha, IL-12 and iNOS mRNA expression in liver samples taken at 90 min post-LPS showed a marked reduction of the two latter mRNAs in BZL-treated mice. These animals also displayed significantly decreased peaks levels of serum TNF-alpha and IL-6, accompanied by a diminished number of IL-6-producing peritoneal macrophages. Present effects may broaden the potential usefulness of BZL in situations accompanied by an excessive inflammatory response.
Kola acuminata proanthocyanidins: a class of anti-trypanosomal compounds effective against Trypanosoma brucei.	Human African trypanosomiasis is undergoing an alarming rate of recrudescence in many parts of sub-Saharan Africa. Yet, there is no successful chemotherapy for the disease due to a limited number of useful drugs, side effects and drawbacks of the existing medication, as well as the development of drug resistance by the parasite. Here we describe a new lead anti-trypanosomal compound isolated from Kola acuminata (Makasu). We purified a proanthocyanidin by chromatographic procedures and confirmed its homogeneity and structure by Nuclear Magnetic Resonance and Matrix-Assisted Laser Desorption Ionisation Time-of-Flight mass spectrometry, respectively. In vitro, this compound potently induced growth arrest and lysis of bloodstream form trypanosomes in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In a mouse model, it exhibited a trypanostatic effect that extended the life of infected, treated animals up to 8 days post-infection against the 4 days for infected, untreated animals. The proanthocyanidin showed a low cytotoxicity against mammalian cells, whereas treated-BF showed massive enlargement of their flagellar pocket and lysosome-like structures caused by an intense formation of multivesicular bodies and vesicles within these organelles. The observed ultrastructural alterations caused rupture of plasma membranes and the release of cell contents, indicative of a necrotic process rather than a programmed cell death. Interestingly, the proanthocyanidin acted against BF but not procyclic form trypanosomes. This new anti-trypanosomal compound should be further studied to determine its efficacy and suitability as an anti-trypanosomal drug and may be used as a tool to define novel specific drug targets in BF trypanosomes.
Chagas' disease: study of congenital transmission in cases of acute maternal infection.	We studied three pregnant women with acute chagasic infection. Two patients, infected in the third trimester of pregnancy, had uninfected children. The third patient, infected earlier, had an infected newborn. These results encourage research on risk factors of transmission and on medical decisions concerning pregnant women with acute Chagas' disease.
Erythema nodoso in reactivation of Chagas' disease after cardiac transplantation]	We report a patient with Chagas' disease that presented Trypanosoma cruzi reactivation after cardiac transplantation and immunodepression, characterized by skin lesions of erythema nodosum. This is an unusual presentation of Chagas' disease.
Cutaneous leishmaniasis in Pakistan.	Leishmaniasis is a major health problem worldwide. It is also a particular problem in the rural areas of Pakistan. The disease occurs in varying presentations, from the self-limited and even self-healing cutaneous forms to fatal systemic disease. Lesions of cutaneous leishmaniasis may occur anywhere on the body but the most likely sites are the exposed parts. The initial papule rapidly gives rise to an ulcer. Systemic leishmaniasis is rarer in Pakistan and invariably fatal if not treated promptly. It affects the internal body organs, particularly the spleen and the liver. Leishmaniasis is transmitted by an infected female sandfly. Cutaneous lesions are usually single and often self-healing, but a presentation with multiple ulcers resulting from multiple bites from the sandfly is not rare in Pakistan. The disease has a very long history and lesions like leishmaniasis have been described dating back to the ninth century (Balkan sore). Cutaneous leishmaniasis has been given various names in different civilizations such as "Delhi boil" in India, "Baghdad boil" in Iraq, and "saldana" in Afghanistan. The organism responsible for leishmaniasis was discovered 100 years ago but the disease has not been eradicated; rather it is on rise in many parts of the world. If control measures are not taken, it might emerge as a major health problem. Pakistan has a burden of cutaneous and visceral leishmaniasis, the mucocutaneous form being almost nonexistent. The physicians need to know the diagnostic criteria as well as the treatment of the disease. Because of a scarcity of dermatologists in the rural areas, most of these cases present to general practitioners. Control of this disease is further complicated by an inadequate supply of appropriate drugs.
Trypanosomiasis by Trypanosoma vivax in cattle in the Brazilian semiarid: Description of an outbreak and lesions in the nervous system.	An outbreak of trypanosomiasis by Trypanosoma vivax is reported in the semiarid of Paraíba, Northeastern Brazil from May to August 2002. Sixty-four cows out of 130 were affected; 11 died and the other recovered after treatment with diminazene aceturate. Affected animals had fever, anemia, weight loss, hypoglycemia, increased serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase and, in nine cows, nervous signs. All cows with nervous signs died; six of them recovered after treatment, but the disease relapsed. Six cows aborted and one delivered a calf that died immediately after parturition. Thirty-two out of 100 calves were affected and five died. Nervous signs were not observed in the calves. Gross lesions were thickening of the meninges, enlarged lymph nodes and prominent white pulp of the spleen. The main histological lesion was meningoencephalitis and malacia in the brain of cows with nervous signs. No antibodies against trypanosomes were found in 33 blood samples collected before the outbreak in the affected farm and in 29 samples collected at the same time in two other neighbor farms. Until January 2003, all 89 animals tested had antibodies against T. vivax, suggesting the occurrence of sub clinical infections in cattle without clinical signs. Only two out of 85 serum samples collected on April 2004 were positive for T. vivax antibodies. Data obtained suggested that the semiarid region is non-endemic for trypanosomiasis and that disease occurred due to introduction of the parasite in a susceptible population after an apparent rise in the Tabanus spp. population.
Equivalence trial of melarsoprol and nifurtimox monotherapy and combination therapy for the treatment of second-stage Trypanosoma brucei gambiense sleeping sickness.	Treatment of second-stage sleeping sickness relies mainly on melarsoprol. Nifurtimox has been successfully used to cure melarsoprol-refractory sleeping sickness caused by Trypanosoma brucei gambiense infection.
Liver transplantation from deceased donors serologically positive for Chagas disease.	The high mortality rates among patients waiting for liver transplantation has motivated the use of "marginal livers", among which are included livers from deceased donors serologically positive for Chagas disease (CD). The present work describes the outcome of orthotopic liver transplantation in six patients with severe liver disease (Child Pugh C), with livers from donors serologically positive for CD. Transplantations were performed from November 2000 to January 2005, and the patients received prophylactic treatment with benznidazole for 60 days, as a recommended by the Brazilian Consensus in Chagas Disease. The transplantation procedures presented no technical problems, and all the patients were discharged from hospital. Five of them did not present side effects demanding interruption of the prophylactic treatment. Four of the patients were clinically well over 1 year after transplantation (mean follow-up of 42.1 months), with negative serological results for CD. Two patients died, one of them 6 months post surgery of sepsis due to biliary complication and other one due to pulmonary (tuberculosis) complications. They were both serologically negative for CD. These results suggest that liver transplantation from CD donors, followed by benznidazole prophylactic treatment, is an important therapeutic alternative for severe liver disease.
The Anti-Trypanosoma cruzi activity of posaconazole in a murine model of acute Chagas' disease is less dependent on gamma interferon than that of benznidazole.	We have investigated the influences of gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-12 (IL-12) on the efficacy of posaconazole (POS) treatment of acute experimental infections with Trypanosoma cruzi; the standard drug, benznidazole (BZ), was used as a positive control. Wild-type (WT) mice infected with T. cruzi and treated with POS or BZ had no parasitemia, 100% survival, and cure rates of 86 to 89%. IFN-gamma-knockout (KO) mice infected with T. cruzi and treated with BZ controlled the infection during treatment but relapsed after the drug pressure ceased and had 0% survival, while those receiving POS better controlled the infection after the end of treatment and had 70% survival (P<0.0001 compared to the results for both untreated and BZ-treated animals). IL-12-KO mice infected and treated with POS or BZ had intermediate results, displaying enhanced parasitemia, decreased survival (77 to 83%), and reduced cure rates (35 to 39%) compared with those of the WT animals. Our results demonstrate that either IFN-gamma or IL-12 deficiency reduces the efficacy of POS or BZ in this experimental model but also indicate that the anti-T. cruzi activity of POS is much less dependent on the activity of IFN-gamma than that of BZ is.
The latest data on posaconazole]	Posaconazole is a lipophilic triazole antifungal agent that is structurally similar to itraconazole but has an expended spectrum of activity including yeast, molds, and dimorphic fungi. Posaconazole was licensed by the European Commission for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis, fusariosis, mycetoma, chromoblastomycosis, and coccidioidomycosis in adults who are refractory, or intolerant to other antifungal agents. Posaconazole was recently indicated for prophylaxis of invasive fungal infections in the following patients: patients receiving remission-induction chemotherapy for acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) or myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) expected to result in prolonged neutropenia and hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients who are undergoing high-dose immunosuppressive therapy for versus host disease. The spectacular activity of posaconazole against refractory infections due to zygomycetes is encouraging and suggests using posaconazole in this case. Posaconazole is only available in oral suspension formulation. Posaconazole was well tolerated in clinical trials and has lower drug interaction profile compared to other available azoles.
DNA damage and nitric oxide synthesis in experimentally infected Balb/c mice with Trypanosoma cruzi.	This study aimed to evaluate whether experimental Chagas disease in acute phase under benznidazole therapy can cause DNA damage in peripheral blood, liver, heart, and spleen cells or induce nitric oxide synthesis in spleen cells. Twenty Balb/c mice were distributed into four groups: control (non-infected animals); Trypanosoma cruzi infected; T. cruzi infected and submitted to benznidazole therapy; and only treated with benznidazole. The results obtained with the single cell gel (comet) assay showed that T. cruzi was able induce DNA damage in heart cells of both benznidazole treated or untreated infected mice. Similarly, T. cruzi infected animals showed an increase of DNA lesions in spleen cells. Regarding nitric oxide synthesis, statistically significant differences (p<0.05) were observed in all experimental groups compared to negative control, the strongest effect observed in the T. cruzi infected group. Taken together, these results indicate that T. cruzi may increase the level of DNA damage in mice heart and spleen cells. Probably, nitric oxide plays an important role in DNA damaging whereas benznidazole was able to minimize induced T. cruzi genotoxic effects in spleen cells.
Trypanosoma evansi infections in Himalayan black bears (Selenarctos thibetanus).	The Asiatic or Himalayan black bear (Selenarctos thibetanus) is an endangered species. In South Asian countries, captive tamed Himalayan bears are commonly used by roving bear-charmers to entertain the people in rural and urban areas. In captivity, this species confronts several psychophysical traumas and communicable diseases, which are prevalent in other domestic species. The present report describes four cases of Trypanosoma evansi infection in live Himalayan charming bears, which originated from the Faisalabad and Jhang districts of Pakistan. The condition was characterized by pyrexia, accelerated pulse, tachypnea, depression, anemic mucous membranes, and ataxia (n = 3). Microscopic examination of peripheral blood films revealed moderate (n = 2) or high (n = 2) numbers of T. evansi. All four bears were treated twice at 3-day intervals with suramin sodium by using almost twice the dosage recommended for common domestic animals (10 mg/kg). The treated bears were found aparasitemic on repeat blood testing on days 5, 7, and 10 post-treatment. No adverse effects were noted and all four cases recovered in 3-7 days after completion of the second round of treatment. One bear died 8 days after the second treatment (day 11). This is the first report of T. evansi in bears.
Shift of excretory-secretory immunogens of Trypanosoma cruzi during human Chagas' disease.	We studied secreted-excreted immunogens in human patients infected with Trypanosoma cruzi. A pair of 45- to 55-kDa antigens and a family of shed acute-phase antigens characterized the acute phase, while antibodies against a 160- to 170-kDa immunogen appeared at the chronic phase of the disease.
Selective inhibitors of methionyl-tRNA synthetase have potent activity against Trypanosoma brucei Infection in Mice.	Human African trypanosomiasis continues to be an important public health threat in extensive regions of sub-Saharan Africa. Treatment options for infected patients are unsatisfactory due to toxicity, difficult administration regimes, and poor efficacy of available drugs. The aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases were selected as attractive drug targets due to their essential roles in protein synthesis and cell survival. Comparative sequence analysis disclosed differences between the trypanosome and mammalian methionyl-tRNA synthetases (MetRSs) that suggested opportunities for selective inhibition using drug-like molecules. Experiments using RNA interference on the single MetRS of Trypanosoma brucei demonstrated that this gene product was essential for normal cell growth. Small molecules (diaryl diamines) similar to those shown to have potent activity on prokaryotic MetRS enzymes were synthesized and observed to have inhibitory activity on the T. brucei MetRS (50% inhibitory concentration, <50 nM) and on bloodstream forms of T. brucei cultures (50% effective concentration, as low as 4 nM). Twenty-one compounds had a close correlation between enzyme binding/inhibition and T. brucei growth inhibition, indicating that they were likely to be acting on the intended target. The compounds had minimal effects on mammalian cell growth at 20 μM, demonstrating a wide therapeutic index. The most potent compound was tested in the murine model of trypanosomiasis and demonstrated profound parasite suppression and delayed mortality. A homology model of the T. brucei MetRS based on other MetRS structures was used to model binding of the lead diaryl diamine compounds. Future studies will focus on improving the pharmacological properties of the MetRS inhibitors.
Interview with Dr Bernard Pécoul, Executive Director of the Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative.	A significant number of product-development partnerships have arisen in the past 10 years to tackle diseases that mainly affect developing countries. With their coherent research and development leadership, they have become key players in identifying gaps and overcoming bottlenecks in order to deliver medicines to those who need them most in the developing world. Dr Bernard Pécoul is the Executive Director of one such partnership, the Drugs for Neglected Diseases Initiative (DNDi). Under his leadership, the DNDi has built the largest and most robust R&D portfolio for three of the most neglected diseases. He speaks to Future Medicinal Chemistry about challenges facing neglected disease R&D and the DNDi's ongoing work.
Disturbance of oxidant/antioxidant equilibrium in horses naturally infected with Trypanosoma evansi.	Oxidant/antioxidant equilibrium disturbance has already been reported in trypanosome infections by several authors. The present study was aimed to explore the possible oxidant/antioxidant disturbance in surra of naturally infected horses before and after treatment. Fifteen naturally infected horses were chosen to analyse erythrocytic indices, platelet counts, lipid peroxides (LPO), nitric oxide (NO), reduced glutathione (GSH), superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) while six healthy animals acted as control. There was a highly significant (P<0.001) reduction in red blood cell (RBC) count, haemoglobin (Hb), packed cell volume (PCV) and platelet levels and a significant reduction in mean corpuscular haemoglobin concentration (MCHC) (P<0.05) was noticed. A highly significant increase in NO (P<0.001), a significant increase in LPO (P<0.05) and a significant decrease in GSH, SOD and CAT (P<0.05) were found. A negative correlation of RBC count with LPO (r=-0.844) and nitrate (r=-0.702) while a positive correlation with GSH (r=0.489), SOD (r=0.580) and CAT (r=0.689) was observed. All the animals were treated with Quinapyramine sulphate (3mg/kg s.c.) only once. Nine animals recovered completely without any side effects. The recovered animals were monitored and samples were collected every seven days for up to 21 days and parameters were analysed. After treatment, a significant increase in haematological parameters was noticed whereas the oxidative indices varied without any statistical significance. To conclude, the increase in oxidant parameters and decrease in antioxidant enzymes in infected horses indicates the disturbance of oxidant/antioxidant indices. There was a significant increase in post therapy haematological values, while the oxidant/antioxidant indices changed insignificantly indicating that antioxidants might be supplemented in the therapeutic regimen.
Reactivation of Chagas' disease: cutaneous manifestations in two immunosuppressed patients.	Chagas' disease is a zoonosis caused by a protozoan agent, Trypanosoma cruzi. Patients undergoing immunosuppressive treatment due to organ transplant, malignancies, infections, or chemotherapy may reactivate a preexisting chronic or indeterminate Trypanosoma cruzi infection.
Acute Chagas disease in a returning traveler.	Acute Chagas disease is rarely recognized, and the risk for acquiring the disease is undefined in travelers to Central America. We describe a case of acute Chagas disease in a traveler to Costa Rica and highlight the need for increased awareness of this infection in travelers to Chagas-endemic areas.
Eflornithine. A new drug in the treatment of sleeping sickness.	Eflornithine (alpha-difluoromethylornithine; DFMO) is a recently developed drug against African trypanosomiasis (sleeping sickness). After a short description of trypanosomiasis and the current treatment, the mechanism of action of eflornithine is discussed, some clinical data is given and attention is paid to recently discovered analogues of eflornithine. Some examples of combination therapy with eflornithine and possible applications are mentioned.
The efficacy of an N-substituted imidazole, RS-49676, against a Trypanosoma cruzi infection in mice.	In vitro studies against epimastigotes and intracellular amastigotes and in vivo studies in inbred C3H/He mice infected with Trypanosoma cruzi Brazil strain were performed to determine the activities of two N-substituted imidazole compounds, RS-49676 and ketoconazole. Both compounds are extremely active in vitro against the amastigotes (ED50 less than 0.0001 micrograms/ml) yet inactive against the epimastigotes. In vivo, RS-49676 increased the mean survival time over 11 weeks beyond the untreated control when given subcutaneously twice daily at 100 mg/kg/day. Ketoconazole increased the mean survival time 11-18 days beyond the untreated control (mean survival time 22 days) when given subcutaneously twice daily at 100 mg/kg or orally once daily at 100 mg/kg. Approximately 20%-25% of the RS-49676 treated mice were cured as determined by culturing the blood of infected mice with fibroblast lung cells. None of the ketoconazole mice were cured.
Enhanced resistance of highly susceptible Balb/c mice to infection with Trypanosoma congolense after infection and cure.	Balb/c and C57Bl/6 mice were cured with Berenil after infection with cloned organisms of Trypanosoma congolense and challenged with homologous or heterologous variants. The mice were fully protected against infection with 10(3) but not 10(5) organisms of the homologous variant. Normal Balb/c mice infected with 10(5) organisms developed uncontrolled parasitemia and had a mean survival time of 8.4 days. Challenge of drug-cured Balb/c mice with 10(5) organisms of the homologous variant established an infection associated with prolonged prepatent period, control of the first peak of parasitemia, and prolonged survival time (36 days). Indirect immunofluorescent and agglutination tests on live trypanosomes revealed that the "delayed" population of the first peak of parasitemia consisted of variants other than that used for challenge. No protection of drug-cured Balb/c mice was obtained following challenge with 10(1)-10(5) organisms of a heterologous variant. Passive transfer of variant-specific antiserum protected mice against infection with 10(3) organisms. Against infection with 10(5) organisms, it resulted in a prolonged prepatent period but had no effect on severity of parasitemia or duration of survival. There was no evidence for persistence of Berenil, which potentially could affect resistance. It was concluded that enhanced immunity in drug-cured Balb/c mice was due to (a) antibody to the variant surface glycoprotein and (b) another, yet unidentified, synergistically acting immune response to the parasite. Possible mechanisms are discussed.
Factors influencing the duration of isometamidium chloride (Samorin) prophylaxis against experimental challenge with metacyclic forms of Trypanosoma congolense.	The duration of a single isometamidium chloride (Samorin) prophylactic treatment against Trypanosoma congolense ILNat. 3.1 and T. congolense IL 285 was examined in 24 Boran steers with regard to (1) the dose of drug, (2) the level of metacyclic challenge and (3) the influence of infection with an unrelated serodeme at the time of treatment. The cattle were repeatedly challenged at monthly intervals between 2 and 7 months following treatment, either by five infected Glossina morsitans centralis or by intradermal inoculation of 5 X 10(3) or 5 X 10(5) in vitro-derived metacyclic trypanosomes. A dose of 1 mg kg-1 afforded complete protection for 4 months and 0.5 mg kg-1 for 3 months against the two T. congolense serodemes examined, irrespective of the method or weight of challenge. In another group of cattle, which had an established infection at the time of treatment, the duration of chemoprophylaxis against an unrelated serodeme was the same as the other groups which had no previous experience of trypanosome infection. Antibodies to metacyclics did not appear in any of the cattle as long as the chemoprophylaxis was effective. An exception to this was the group challenged with 5 X 10(5) in vitro-derived metacyclic parasites, in which low antibody titres were detected. In all cases these proved to be non-protective. It was concluded that, under the experimental conditions employed, (1) there was a direct relationship between drug dosage and the duration of chemoprophylaxis, (2) the weight of metacyclic challenge did not affect the duration of chemoprophylaxis and (3) when used to treat an existing infection, isometamidium chloride exerted the same degree of chemoprophylactic activity.
Trypanosoma congolense: host responses following tsetse transmitted infection of Kilifi isolates in goats.	East African x Galla goats, when infected with Trypanosoma congolense isolates from the Kilifi area of Kenya by Glossina morsitans centralis, did not develop the characteristic chancre reaction at the bite sites, whereas bites of tsetse infected with the cloned T. congolense IL.1180 from Serengeti, Tanzania, resulted in chancres in the same goats. Histological changes could not be observed in skin biopsies collected 8 or 9 days after infection with Kilifi isolates. However, all goats became parasitemic about 10 days after challenge. It is concluded that the absence of chancre development is a characteristic feature of T. congolense parasites from Kilifi. The isoenzyme analysis of clones of two T. congolense Kilifi isolates and the T. congolense clone IL.1180 indicated that they belong to different zymodemes. Neutralizing antibodies to homologous metacyclic variable antigen types were detected in six out of seven (86%) of the sera from goats infected with a clone or stock of a T. congolense Kilifi isolate, 20 days after infection. Goats primed by tsetse transmitted infection with a stock or clone of T. congolense from Kilifi and treated with Berenil were, in three out of eight cases (37%), not immune to homologous challenge. It is suggested that the reduced immune response to metacyclic variable antigen types could be a result of the absence of cellular infiltration, i.e., chancre development in the skin at the tsetse bite site. It is concluded that the use of the chancre reaction as a marker for serodeme analysis of recently isolated stocks of T. congolense from Kilifi was not feasible.
Effect of length of treatment with Bayer 2502 on isolation of Trypanosoma cruzi and resistance to challenge in the mouse.	The effect of length of treatment of Trypanosoma cruzi with Bayer 2502 (Bay 2502, Lampit, Nifurtimox) on resistance to challenge and parasite isolation was studied in two experiments. In each, 200 mice were divided into groups of 20, infected with T. cruzi, and then treated with Bay 2502 for 1 to 8 consecutive weeks. Sixteen weeks after exposure, 10 mice from each experimental group were challenged with 150,000 trypomastigotes. The remainder were maintaned for 8 more weeks and killed for isolation of parasites. Mice treated with Bay 2502 for up to 8 consecutive weeks were uniformly resistant to challenge, and parasites could not be isolated from groups treatef for over 6 weeks. Results suggest that prolonged treatment with Bay 2502 eliminates T. cruzi from infected hosts and that resistance to challenge is not dependent on the presence of the organisms in mice.
Role of antibody in the elimination of trypanosomes after DL-alpha-difluoromethylornithine chemotherapy.	The drug DL-alpha-difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), a specific inhibitor of ornithine decarboxylase, was studied as an antitrypanosomal drug. We showed that an antibody response to the surface antigen of trypanosomes was necessary for rapid elimination of parasites after DFMO treatment, as effects of drug treatment were greatly reduced in immunosuppressed mice. Efficacy of the treatment also varied with the inherent ability of different mouse strains to mount antibody responses to trypanosomal surface antigen. Further, some trypanosomes were more resistant to the combined effects of drug and host immunity, as relapses occurred with certain parasite clones.
In search of anti-Trypanosoma cruzi drugs: new leads from a mouse model.	Nine of 25 carefully selected compounds (from a stock of more than 200 000 chemical species amassed principally as a result of testing against other parasitic diseases) were found to have significant suppressive activity against the parasites in the blood of a Trypanosoma cruzi mouse model. Eight of these compounds evaluated in this model had suppressive activity equal to or greater than the reference compound, nifurtimox. For the first time, suppressive activity against T. cruzi is reported for a 7-aminoquinoline, a phosphonium salt, and TAC pamoate; The biological model is believed to be able to serve as a means of identifying other new "leads* in seeking drugs broadly effective against T=ruzi infections in man.
Preliminary efficacy trial of Cymelarsan in mice artificially infected with Trypanosoma brucei brucei isolated from a dog in Zambia.	An efficacy trial of Cymelarsan on a Zambian strain of Trypanosoma brucei brucei was done. Twenty-five male mice were infected intraperitoneally with 10(6) of T. b. brucei isolated from a dog. Five groups of 5 mice were treated with 0 (control), 0.25, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg Cymelarsan, respectively. The target was to achieve aparasitaemia for 30 days post-treatment, euthanising those that remained parasitaemic or relapsed before then. The 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg groups remained parasitaemic although the parasitaemic levels were reduced. The 1.0 mg/kg group had a proportion of aparasitaemic mice. However, all mice in the 2.0 mg/kg group remained aparasitaemic until day 20 when 2 mice relapsed. These results suggested that more than 2.0 mg/kg was required to eliminate this strain.
Use of a 24-kilodalton Trypanosoma cruzi recombinant protein to monitor cure of human Chagas' disease.	A 24-kDa recombinant protein from Trypanosoma cruzi (rTc24) was evaluated by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and Western blot (immunoblot) tests to identify treated chagasic patients considered parasitologically cured on the basis of persistently negative tests of hemocultures and lytic antibodies. Some of these patients were termed dissociated because their sera, although negative by the complement-mediated lysis test, were positive by conventional serology. The negative lysis test indicates the absence of active infection after specific treatment, but this assay requires live and infectious parasites and cannot be used easily in a laboratory routine. Here we tested rTc24 by ELISA and Western blotting as an alternative for the complement-mediated lysis test. For the group of patients with active infection despite the treatment (uncured patients), all the sera tested recognized rTc24 in both tests. For the dissociated patients, approximately 80% of the sera did not react with rTc24 in the ELISA or in Western blots, in agreement with the negative complement-mediated lysis tests. Thus, the 24-kDa T. cruzi recombinant antigen, when used for initial trials to evaluate cure of chagasic patients submitted to specific treatment, will allow the identification of most, but not all, cases.
Reversibility of muscle and heart lesions in chronic, Trypanosoma cruzi infected mice after late trypanomicidal treatment.	The effect of trypanomicidal treatment upon established histopathological Trypanosoma cruzi induced lesions was studied in Swiss mice. The animals were inoculated with 50 trypomastigotes and infection was allowed to progress without treatment for 99 days. After this period, the animals were divided in three groups, treated for 30 days with either placebo, benznidazole (200 mg/kg/day) or nifurtimox (100 mg/kg/day). These treatments induced 94 and 100% cure rates respectively as detected by xenodiagnosis and reduction of antibody levels. Autopsies and histopathological studies of heart, urinary bladder and skeletal muscle performed on day 312 after infection showed almost complete healing without residual lesions. As long periods were allowed between infection, treatment and autopsy, the results indicate that tissue lesions depend, up to advances stages, on the continuous presence of the parasite.
Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense: use of an antigen detection enzyme immunoassay for evaluation of response to chemotherapy in infected vervet monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops).	Thirty eight Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense-infected vervet monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops) in the late (meningoencephalitic) stage of disease, treated with various trypanocidal drugs, were monitored for a period of more than 600 days to assess the rate of clearance of trypanosome antigens from serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). There was a complete but gradual reduction in antigen titres, as assessed by ELISA, in animals treated intravenously with melarsoprol, the standard drug for the late stage disease. In 8 of the 9 monkeys treated with melarsoprol, the antigen titres, as assessed by optical density values, dropped by 50% within 252 days (mean value 68 days for antigens in CSF and 116 for serum) following treatment. The remaining animal in this group, that displayed persistent antigenaemia, had been treated with a sub-curative drug dosage level. Thus, if time to 50% reduction in antigen levels were to be taken as an index to predict cure, the follow-up period after melarsoprol treatment could have been reduced from 600 to 252 days for 8 of the 9 animals, leaving only one animal for further follow up. The animals treated with experimental drug combinations displayed a variable picture. Five monkeys showed a persistence of antigens in both serum and CSF throughout the observation period, suggesting failure of the drugs to cure the infection. Parasitologically confirmed relapse of the infection was indeed observed in all the five monkeys. In some monkeys, the parasite antigens eventually cleared from serum and CSF completely, but this took a longer time duration than in the melarsoprol treated animals; others showed persistence of parasite antigens in serum, but the parasites were not detected in blood or CSF throughout the entire follow-up period. These results suggest that the experimental drug combinations used were not effective in clearing the parasites from cryptic foci and hence the persistence of antigens in serum and/or CSF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Efficacy of Cymelarsan in Friesian Holstein calves infected with Trypanosoma evansi.	Two studies on the efficacy of mel Cy (Cymelarsan, Rhone Merieux, France) for the treatment of cattle infected with Trypanosoma evansi were carried out with groups of 5 Friesian Holstein calves infected with an Indonesian stock of T. evansi and treated 14 days after infection. In the first study 3 groups were injected subcutaneously with Cymelarsan at dose rates of 0.125, 0.25 and 0.50 mg/kg and in the second study 2 i/m at 0.50 and 0.75 mg/kg. The response to treatment was monitored parasitologically by daily microhaematocrit centrifugation technique and weekly mouse inoculation. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assays were used to monitor trypanosomal antibodies and trypanosomal antigens in serum samples collected weekly. Relapse infections occurred in all the groups given the drug s/c whilst all the animals treated i/m remained parasitologically negative up to 80 days after treatment. Results from serological assays, however, suggested the possible persistence of trypanosome infection in the animals treated at a dose rate of 0.50 mg/kg i/m although trypanosomes could not be demonstrated parasitologically. A dose rate of 0.75 mg/kg administered i/m is recommended, therefore, for the treatment of T. evansi infection in Friesian Holstein cattle.
Trypanosoma evansi infection in dogs: seasonal prevalence and chemotherapy.	A 1-year survey was undertaken to determine the incidence of Trypanosoma evansi in dogs at Ludhiana, India. Of 64 dogs examined by wet film, thin smear, thick smear and mouse inoculation, three (4.68%) were found to be positive for T. evansi. All the positive animals were detected during the rainy and post-rainy seasons. The treatment of three infected dogs with a combination of quinpyramine sulphate and chloride (3:2 w/w) resulted in complete recovery of two dogs; another dog died on the day therapy was initiated.
The effect of Trypanosoma brucei brucei infection on rabbit plasma iron and zinc concentrations.	Changes in plasma iron and zinc concentration were studied in rabbits following a needle challenge with Trypanosoma brucei brucei clone ILTat 2.1. The infection resulted in a decrease of the concentration of both trace elements. Plasma iron concentrations decreased gradually and were decreased maximally to 52.3% of pre-infection levels on day 18 post-inoculation. Plasma zinc concentrations, on the other hand, decreased more rapidly and were decreased maximally to 27.4% of pre-infection levels on day 3 post-inoculation. The onset of these decreases coincided with the appearance of parasites in the peripheral blood. Furthermore, the magnitude of their decrease correlated closely with the level and duration of the parasitaemia. Other abnormal findings, namely, anaemia and periods of leucocytosis and leukopenia, were also observed. This study therefore demonstrates that depression in plasma iron and zinc concentrations is part of the acute phase response in rabbits infected with this clone of T. b. brucei.
Protective role of the pefloxacin-IFN-gamma association in Leishmania major-infected mice.	Four groups of female Balb/c mice were inoculated in the left hind footpad with 30 microliters of RPMI 1640 medium containing 10(7) Leishmania major amastigotes/ml. One group was injected sc with 200 microliters of RPMI 1640 containing 180 micrograms of pefloxacin for 20 days, a second group with the same amount of medium containing 100 units of recombinant murine interferon gamma (rmIFN-gamma). The third group was treated with the association, while the fourth group received plain medium in an identical regimen. Pefloxacin or IFN-gamma significantly decreased the size of primary lesions, while their association was significantly more efficient in this respect, in reducing the incidence of metastatic lesions, and in clearing parasites from the spleen. We also investigated the effect of pefloxacin on the activation of mouse spleen cells by Concanavalin A (Con A) in vitro, without detecting any interference on the proliferative response or IFN-gamma production.
Treatment of congenital Chagas' disease diagnosed and followed up by the polymerase chain reaction.	In 1991 and 1992, a prenatal screening of Trypanosoma cruzi infection was carried out using ELISA and indirect immunofluorescence techniques. A total of 840 blood samples from pregnant women, obtained at the Maternity Ward of the Hospital de Clínicas, National University of Asunción (Asunción, Paraguay), and 1,022 samples from the Regional Hospital of the San Pedro Department of Paraguay were examined. It was observed that 7.7% and 10.5%, respectively, of the pregnant women were serologically positive for infection with T. cruzi. When blood samples obtained from newborns on the day of birth or, at the most, on the first few days afterwards were examined by direct microscopic observation, an incidence of congenital transmission of 3% was found. These results are consistent with those of neighboring countries. When a serologic follow-up was conducted on the newborns until six months of age, the incidence of congenital transmission reached 10%. The same incidence rate was obtained when the samples collected during the first days after birth were examined by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Fifty-eight infants born to seropositive mothers were followed-up, two of which were positive by direct microscopic observation at birth, and four who were PCR-positive, but microscopy-negative at birth. None of the infants were positive for IgM at birth. The infected babies were treated with benznidazole and were followed-up by serology and PCR for four years. We conclude that the PCR has a clear advantage over conventional techniques for the early detection of congenital transmission of T. cruzi infection, and for monitoring infants undergoing chemotherapy.
Megazol combined with suramin: a chemotherapy regimen which reversed the CNS pathology in a model of human African trypanosomiasis in mice.	Chemotherapy for human African trypanosomiasis (HAT), or sleeping sickness, is unreliable because of resistance, refraction and toxic and adverse side-effects. Using a long-term experimental model of HAT with involvement of the central nervous system (CNS), we tested the ability of a megazol and suramin combination treatment to eliminate CNS trypanosomes. This consisted of 20 mg suramin per kg body weight administered intraperitoneally (i.p.), followed 24 h later by 4 daily doses (80 mg/kg) of megazol given either i.p. or per os. One week post-treatment, neurological disorders had disappeared. One of 15 mice relapsed in each application group at 81 and 98 days after treatment, respectively. At six months, no signs of relapse were seen in remaining mice, indicating that this chemotherapy regimen was curative. Immunohistochemical (astrocytosis) and histological (inflammatory lesions) examinations of brain tissues showed that animals returned to normal from 2 months post-treatment. These results suggest that the megazol-suramin combination reversed the CNS pathology in this model.
Interleukin-12 enhances in vivo parasiticidal effect of benznidazole during acute experimental infection with a naturally drug-resistant strain of Trypanosoma cruzi.	The roles of gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) and interleukin-12 (IL-12) in mediating and/or enhancing the in vivo trypanosomicidal activity of the nitroheterocyclic derivative benznidazole (Bz) were evaluated during early stages of experimental Chagas' disease. Our results show that treatment of Trypanosoma cruzi-infected mice with anti-cytokine monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) had no apparent effect when the optimal dose of Bz (100 mg/kg of body weight) was used. In contrast, treatment with anti-IL-12 or anti-IFN-gamma MAbs enhanced the parasitemia and accelerated the mortality of mice treated with a suboptimal dose of Bz (25 mg/kg). Simultaneous treatment with a suboptimal dose of Bz and recombinant IL-12 (rIL-12) enhanced the efficacy of drug treatment in terms of parasitemia and mouse survival. Interestingly, we found that drug-resistant T. cruzi strains were found to be poor inducers of IL-12 both in vitro and in vivo compared to strains of T. cruzi which are susceptible or partially resistant to Bz treatment. These results suggest that early activation of the cellular compartment of the immune system by IL-12 may favor in vivo Bz activity against T. cruzi. In order to test this hypothesis mice infected with the drug-resistant Colombiana strain of T. cruzi were treated with 100 mg of Bz per kg plus different concentrations of rIL-12. By using the results of PCR and serological and parasitological methods as the criteria of a cure, our results indicate that a higher percentage of mice treated with Bz combined with rIL-12 than mice treated with Bz alone are cured.
Trypanosome infections and tick infestations: susceptibility in N'Dama, Gobra zebu and Gobra x N'Dama crossbred cattle exposed to natural challenge and maintained under high and low surveillance of trypanosome infections.	Susceptibility to trypanosome infections and tick infestations was assessed in 51 N'Dama, 48 Gobra zebu and 37 Gobra x N'Dama crossbred (F1) cattle exposed to field-tick infestations and natural high tsetse challenge over more than one year. From these cattle, 12 animals of each breed were randomly selected and examined parasitologically for trypanosome infections and packed cell volume (PCV) twice a week (high surveillance, group HS). In the remaining 100 cattle trypanosome infection and PCV were monitored monthly (low surveillance, group LS). Mortality rates were recorded in both groups. Tick infestation was quantified fortnightly from all animals in group HS and from four to seven randomly selected animals of each breed in group LS. In both HS and LS groups, trypanocidal drug treatment was administered to trypanosome positive animals with PCV equal to or less than 20% or when they showed clinical evidence (dullness, weight loss) of trypanosomosis. In both groups, N'Dama cattle exhibited a superior capacity to control trypanosome infections and limit tick burdens. Particularly, in group HS N'Dama cattle showed lower trypanosome infection rate, higher mean PCV value, lower requirement for trypanocide treatments and lower tick load than crossbred and Gobra cattle in the corresponding group (P < 0.05 or greater). This was also true in N'Damas in comparison with crossbreds in group LS. Unfortunately, the high mortality occurring in Gobra cattle in group LS did not allow within group comparative analysis between N'Dama, Gobra and crossbred cattle overall the study period. No death occurred in N'Dama cattle maintained under high surveillance of trypanosome infection, while approximately 8% of crossbreds and 50% of Gobras died of trypanosomosis. In group LS, all Gobra and more than 70% of crossbred cattle died. In this group, mortality in N'Dama was limited to less than 16%. In both groups, differences in mortality were significantly higher (P < 0.01) in Gobras than in N'Damas. Within breed, animals of the three breeds maintained under high surveillance of trypanosomal infection showed higher mean PCV values, lower tick burdens and required proportionally less trypanocide treatments than corresponding cattle in group LS. The infection rate in N'Dama under high surveillance was lower in comparison with N'Dama cattle in group LS. There was no significant difference in mortality between groups within the N'Dama breed. Conversely, mortality rates were lower in crossbred and Gobra in group HS than in respective cattle in group LS. It was concluded that cattle of the three breeds suffered from trypanosomosis and that trypanosome infections affected tick susceptibility. However, N'Dama showed a superior ability to limit both the pathological effects of trypanosomosis and the level of tick infestations. Therefore, considering the cost of labour and consumable equipment required for a high surveillance, use of multi-disease resistant N'Dama cattle is recommended for the low-input traditional African farming systems in areas where trypanosomosis, ticks and tick-borne diseases are constraints to livestock production. Additional comparative investigations are needed to assess the impact of high surveillance scheme of trypanosome infection in different production systems in trypanotolerant and trypanosusceptible cattle exposed to different gradients of tsetse challenge.
