Dissociating barrel development and lesion-induced plasticity in the mouse somatosensory cortex.	In the mouse somatosensory cortex, thalamocortical axons (TCAs) corresponding to individual whiskers cluster into restricted barrel domains during the first days of life. If whiskers are lesioned before that time, the cortical space devoted to the afferents from the damaged whisker shrinks and becomes occupied by thalamocortical afferents from neighboring unlesioned whiskers. This plasticity ends by postnatal day 3 (P3) to P4 when barrels emerge. To test whether TCA development and lesion-induced plasticity are linked, we used monoamine oxidase A knock-out (MAOA-KO) mice in which normal TCA development is halted by an excess of serotonin. Normal TCA development can be restored when serotonin levels are lowered by parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA). By varying the time of PCPA administration, we found that barrel development can be reinitiated until P11, although the emergence of TCA clusters becomes gradually slower and less complete. In mice in which barrels emerge 3 d later than the normal schedule, at P6 instead of P3, we examined lesion-induced plasticity. We find a progressive decline of the lesion-induced plasticity and a closure at P3, similar to normal mice, showing that this plasticity is not influenced by an excess of serotonin levels. Thus, in MAOA-KO mice, the emergence of barrel patterning can be delayed without a concomitant delay in lesion-induced plasticity, and the cortical space devoted to one whisker representation cannot be modified by the periphery once patterning is imprinted in the subcortical relays. We conclude that the closure of the lesion-induced plasticity period in the barrelfield is probably not determined at the cortical level.
Effects of para-chloroamphetamine upon the serotonergic innervation of the rat hippocampus.	The ability of hippocampal serotonergic (5-HT) axons to proliferate in response to damage by para-chloroamphetamine (PCA) was examined in this study. Synaptosomal uptake of 5-HT in the hippocampal formation was decreased to 40% of control 3 days after systemic administration of PCA. Six weeks after PCA, uptake values were 44% of control. Retrograde tracing combined with 5-HT immunocytochemistry showed a significant reduction (18% of control) in the number of 5-HT raphe neurons projecting to the hippocampus 3 days after PCA. The number of 5-HT neurons projecting to the hippocampal formation increased to 69% of control by 6 weeks. The dorsal raphe nucleus was not retrogradely labeled after PCA; the increase in labeled neurons was observed in the median raphe nucleus. PHA-L, injections of the median raphe nucleus demonstrated a reduction of raphe axons in the hippocampal formation after PCA. In rats treated with PCA, raphe axons labeled with PHA-L also appeared to have fewer boutons than raphe axons labeled in control cases. The density of PHA-L containing axons in the hippocampal formation of rats injected 3 days and 6 weeks after PCA was less than control but there was no difference between the experimental groups. Based upon the results from synaptosomal uptake and anterograde tracing experiments, we feel that compensatory proliferation of 5-HT axons does not occur within 6 weeks of PCA-induced damage to the 5-HT plexus of the hippocampal formation. The data derived from the retrograde tracing experiment are thought to reflect reduced uptake and transport of WGA-HRP as an acute effect of PCA.
Serotonin concentration, synthesis, cell origin, and targets in the rat caput epididymis during sexual maturation and variations associated with adult mating status: morphological and biochemical studies.	The caput epididymis of some mammals contains large quantities of serotonin whose origin, targets, and physiological variations have been poorly studied. We combined morphological and biochemical techniques to begin approaching these aspects of serotonin in the rat caput epididymis. Serotonin immunostaining was detected in mast, epithelial, and neuroendocrine cells. Epithelial cells displayed immunoreactivity to 5HT(1A), 5HT(2A,) and 5HT(3) serotonin receptors. Endothelial and mast cells labeled positive for 5HT(1B) serotonin receptors and spermatozoa displayed 5HT(2A) and 5HT(3) serotonin receptor immunoreactivity. Epithelial, endothelial, and mast cells stained positive for serotonin transporters. Only epithelial cells showed tryptophan hydroxylase immunoreactivity; this enzyme catalyzes the limiting step in the serotonin synthetic pathway. In addition, Western blot analyses of caput homogenates documented the presence of 2 protein bands ( approximately 51 kd and approximately 48 kd) that were immunoreactive for tryptophan hydroxylase. Chromatographic analyses documented the presence of tryptophan hydroxylase in the caput, and showed that both its activity and serotonin availability increased with sexual maturation and decreased following p-chlorophenylalanine treatment, an inhibitor of tryptophan hydroxylase activity. Interestingly, serotonin concentration and tryptophan hydroxylase activity tended to be higher in breeding males than in those with no mating experience. We think that these results support the existence of a local serotoninergic system in the rat caput epididymis that might regulate some aspects of male reproductive function.
Inhibition of tryptophan hydroxylase by benserazide and other catechols.	Tryptophan hydroxylase (L-tryptophan, tetrahydropteridine:oxygen oxidoreductase [5-hydroxylating]; EC 1.14.16.4; TPH), the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of the neurotransmitter serotonin, was inhibited directly by benserazide, an inhibitor of aromatic-L-amino-acid decarboxylase (3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine carboxy-lyase; EC 4.1.1.28; AAAD). Benserazide was a competitive inhibitor for the pterin cofactor tetrahydrobiopterin and an uncompetitive inhibitor for the substrate tryptophan. NSD 1015, another decarboxylase inhibitor, did not directly inhibit TPH. Other compounds with catechol moieties in their structures such as 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), dopamine, apomorphine, and SKF 38393 were also found to be potent inhibitors of TPH. These results indicate that drugs or neurotransmitters with catechol structures directly inhibit the activity of TPH and add to a growing body of evidence indicating that endogenous dopamine can exert untoward effects on serotonin neurons, including inhibition of TPH. Furthermore, the use of decarboxylase inhibitors to cause the accumulation of 5-hydroxytryptophan as an in vivo measure of TPH activity could be problematic, particularly when drugs with catechol structures or dopamine-releasing compounds are also administered.
Effect of MK-801 on the decrease in tryptophan hydroxylase induced by methamphetamine and its methylenedioxy analog.	The role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the decrease in neostriatal tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) activity induced by repeated high doses of methamphetamine or 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) was evaluated. Rats received 4 injections of methamphetamine (15 mg/kg) or MDMA (10 mg/kg) at 6 h intervals, and were killed 18-20 h after the last administration. These treatments with methamphetamine or MDMA reduced neostriatal TPH activity to 26 and 34% of control, respectively. Coadministration of MK-801 (2.5 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the methamphetamine-induced decrease in TPH activity (66% of control), but did not alter the effect of MDMA. This study suggests that excitatory amino acids may participate in the methamphetamine-induced decline in central TPH activity, and that the mechanism by which MDMA and methamphetamine decreases TPH activity may differ.
Modulation of tryptophan hydroxylase activity by phospholipids: stimulation followed by inactivation.	The activity of tryptophan hydroxylase from the rat brainstem was stimulated rapidly three- to fourfold by the addition of phosphatidylinositol or phosphatidylserine. However, the activity of the enzyme once stimulated was decreased gradually by subsequent incubation with the phospholipid at 37 degrees C, reaching a level below the original activity after 1 h of incubation. The presence of ferrous ion almost perfectly protected the enzyme against this phospholipid inactivation. The activity of the enzyme inactivated by incubation with the phospholipid was not only restored, but also increased further by incubation at 37 degrees C with ferrous ion and dithiothreitol. Gel filtration analysis revealed that the enzyme stimulated by phosphatidylinositol was eluted in a void volume together with the phospholipid vesicles, but the enzyme inactivated by incubation with phosphatidylinositol was eluted at a later region apart from the vesicles. These results, taken together, suggest the possible involvement of cellular membranes in the regulation of tryptophan hydroxylase in the central nervous system.
Role of monoamine neural systems in L-dihydroxyphenylalanine-stimulated activity.	The potentiation of the stimulatory response to L-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-dopa) in 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats given a peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor occurred only after treatments that destroyed dopamine-containing fibers, Destruction of serotonin- or norepinephrine-containing fibers did not potentiate the action of L-dopa. Furthermore, other data indicated thatL-dopa-induced activity could not be attributed to release of serotonin or to the formation of norepinephrine. That the L-dopa must be converted to catecholamines was demonstrated by antagonism of the activity responses to L-dopa with inhibition of decarboxylases in brain. After destruction of serotonin-containing fibers with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine, L-dopa-induced activity in 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats was significantly reduced, as was the accumulation of dopamine formed from L-dopa. These latter data provide direct evidence that serotonergic fibers contribute to the accumulation of dopamine in brain after L-dopa administration to 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rats.
Advances in the molecular characterization of tryptophan hydroxylase.	The neurotransmitter serotonin has been implicated in numerous physiological functions and pathophysiological disorders. The hydroxylation of the aromatic amino acid tryptophan is rate-limiting in the synthesis of serotonin. Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH), as the rate-limiting enzyme, determines the concentrations of serotonin in vivo. Relative serotonin concentrations are clearly important in neural transmission, but serotonin has also been reported to function as a local antioxidant. Identification of the mechanisms regulating TPH activity has been hindered by its low levels in tissues and the instability of the enzyme. Several TPH expression systems have been developed to circumvent these problems. In addition, eukaryotic expressions systems are currently being developed and represent a new avenue of research for identifying TPH regulatory mechanisms. Recombinant DNA technology has enabled the synthesis of TPH deletions, chimeras, and point mutations that have served as tools for identifying structural and functional domains within TPH. Notably, the experiments have proven long-held hypotheses that TPH is organized into N-terminal regulatory and C-terminal catalytic domains, that serine-58 is a site for PKA-mediated phosphorylation, and that a C-terminal leucine zipper is involved in formation of the tetrameric holoenzyme. Several new findings have also emerged regarding regulation of TPH activity by posttranslational phosphorylation, kinetic inhibition, and covalent modification. Inhibition of TPH by L-DOPA may have implications for depression in Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. In addition, TPH inactivation by nitric oxide may be involved in amphetamine-induced toxicity. These regulatory concepts, in conjunction with new systems for studying TPH activity, are the focus of this article.
