Tissue alterations in Microtus montanus chronically infected with Trypanosoma brucei gambiense.	Changes in liver, spleen, kidneys, heart, and brain are reported for Microtus montanus chronically infected with Trypanosoma brucei gambiense. An increase in body weight of infected animals was attributable to a significant increase in total mass of spleen, liver and kidney. Cellular infiltrate consisting primarily of lymphocytes and plasma cells was observed in all organs and was particularly evident in intralobular connective tissue of the liver, adipose tissue of the hilum, and adjacent medullary region of the kidney, spleen, and the meninges. Disruption of normal metabolism and the pathological changes observed in liver and kidney suggest that the survival of trypanosome-infected voles is dependent largely on the physiological response occurring in these organs.
Effect of chronic experimental Trypanosoma congolense infection on the ovaries, pituitary, thyroid and adrenal glands in female goats.	Changes in the ovaries, pituitary, thyroid and adrenal glands in Small East African normally cycling female goats chronically infected with Trypanosoma congolense are described. Marked fibrosis of the ovaries, a decrease in the number of primordial and primary follicles and atresia of growing follicles at the tertiary stage resulting in lack of corpora lutea were observed. The pituitary glands revealed reduced degranulation of the basophils and slight hypertrophy of the acidophils. The thyroids were extensively degenerated and atrophied whereas the adrenal cortices were markedly hypertrophied in some regions and atrophied in others. It is concluded that chronic trypanosomiasis causes marked reproductive lesions in females comparable to those previously described in male animals.
The pathogenesis of experimentally induced Trypanosoma brucei infection in the dog. I. Tissue and organ damage.	Inoculation of dogs with Trypanosoma brucei produced an acute fetal disease similar to that seen following natural infection. The disease was characterised by high levels of parasitaemia, moderately severe anemia, and marked changes in the lymphoid system. Extravascular invasion by large numbers of trypanosomes was widespread throughout the body and was accompanied by severe tissue damage. Tissue invasion by trypanosomes was associated with marked cellular infiltration involving lymphoid cells and plasma cells followed by macrophages and polymorphonuclear leukocytes. Associated with these reactions, severe cellular degeneration and focal necrosis occurred. While these changes were widespread and were found in the majority of tissues examined, consistently severe lesions were found in the heart, eyes and central nervous system. In many organs, lymphatic vessels were distended with fluid, trypanosomes, and a cell population similar to that in the surrounding tissue; fibrin deposition and thrombus formation was sometimes observed within the lymphatic lumens. Thrombosis was also found in the blood vessels of the pampiniform plexus, the venous plexus of the ovary, and branches of the renal vein. A severe necrotizing vasculitis affecting only the coronary vessels was a prominent feature in some animals.
Cure of mice infected with Trypanosoma rhodesiense by cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) and disulfiram rescue.	Mice infected with Trypanosoma rhodesiense were treatment concurrently with cis-diamminedichloroplatinum (II) (DDP), disulfiram, and hydration. Most of the mice (92.5 percent) were cured; inoculation of blood or suspensions of brain or heart from these animals did not produce disease in recipient mice. The dose of DDP needed to eliminate the trypanosomes, 3 milligrams per kilogram of body weight per day for 7 days, was lethally toxic unless the animals received disulfiram orally and subcutaneous injections of physiologic saline, which reduced the acute renal necrosis caused by DDP alone. Some mild to moderate reversible renal damage was noted upon pathologic examination of the treated mice.
Experimental Trypanosoma brucei infection in deer mice: splenic changes.	Forty deer mice (Peromyscus maniculatus) were infected with Trypanosoma brucei organisms and were killed 33 to 83 days after inoculation (average, 63). The outstanding lesion was infiltration of plasma cells in various tissues. These cells caused disruption of the periarteriolar lymphocytic sheaths and thickening of red pulp cords in the spleen. The lymph node was almost completely replaced by plasma cells. The spleen and lymph nodes also had marked hyperplasia of germinal centers and granulomatous-like proliferation of macrophages. The nervous system showed meningoencephalitis characterized by accumulations of plasma cells.
