Multicentre evaluation of an antigen-detection ELISA for the diagnosis of Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense sleeping sickness.	The performance of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (antigen ELISA) for the detection, in serum or cerebrospinal fluid, of an invariant trypanosome antigen to diagnose Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense sleeping sickness was evaluated in four clinical treatment centres. The test, which was carried out in polystyrene test-tubes, was positive in 88 (88.9%) of 99 parasitologically confirmed cases that were tested at the National Institute for Medical Research, Tabora, United Republic of Tanzania; 99 (94.3%) of 105 cases tested at the National Sleeping Sickness Control Programme, Jinja, Uganda; 86 (87.8%) of 98 cases tested at the Uganda Trypanosomiasis Research Organisation, Tororo, Uganda; and 59 (96.7%) of 61 cases tested at the Tropical Diseases Research Centre, Ndola, Zambia. The overall detection rate was 91.5%. There was no cross-reactivity with the agents of the common bacterial, viral, or parasitic diseases prevalent in the areas where the studies were conducted. The only false-positive result involved a blood donor from a trypanosomiasis endemic focus. The test was simple to perform, was read visually, and is therefore a potential tool for diagnosing human African trypanosomiasis.
Evaluation of Procyclic Agglutination Trypanosomiasis Test (PATT) for the immunodiagnosis of Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense sleeping sickness in Kenya.	Documented sera from 156 patients admitted to Alupe Sleeping Sickness Hospital in Western Kenya were tested to determine the potential usefulness of Procclic Agglutination Trypanosomiasis Test (PATT) for the diagnosis of Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense African sleeping sickness. A total of 490 serum samples were tested, including 42 controls. Anti-trypanosome antibodies were detected in 99% of the sera taken prior to trypanocidal drug therapy. Antibody levels remained high during course of treatment. In cured cases antibodies declined to negative or low levels 4 months to one year after treatment. High antibody levels persisted in patients who relapsed. Although the results showed a high sensitivity and specificity, confirming the potential usefulness of the test for serodiagnosis of African sleeping sickness, PATT, in its present form is unsuitable for routine diagnosis. This is due to difficulties inherent in the use of live trypanosomes as detector antigen.
Cytoskeleton-associated antigens from African trypanosomes are recognized by self-reactive antibodies of uninfected mice.	Serum from uninfected mice of different strains, as well as from germ-free animals, contains antibodies which react specifically with at least two trypanosomal proteins, I/6 and MARP1. These antibody populations are highly specific for the respective proteins, are of similar affinity as hyperimmune antibodies, and consist of IgM as well as IgG isotypes. Hyperimmune antibody raised against the cross-reacting trypanosomal protein I/6 detects a 60 kDa protein in mouse 3T6 cells, which is a component of the fibroblast cytoskeleton.
Antigenic variation and the problem of vaccines against African trypanosomes]	African trypanosomes evade the immune response of their host through continuous changes of their major surface antigen, the VSG. This antigenic variation is achieved by either alternative activation of different expression sites for the VSG gene, or DNA rearrangements occurring within a given site. Several minor but invariant surface proteins have recently been characterized. This is especially the case for some surface receptors, which appear to be located in an invagination of the plasma membrane termed the flagellar pocket. These proteins may represent useful targets for new vaccination strategies.
Transport of a lysosomal membrane glycoprotein from the Golgi to endosomes and lysosomes via the cell surface in African trypanosomes.	gp57/42 is a membrane glycoprotein localized in the trans-Golgi, flagellar pocket region of the cell surface, endosomes and lysosomes of bloodstream forms of Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense. Pulse-chase immunoprecipitation experiments revealed that gp57/42 acquires a unique N-linked oligosaccharide recognized by the CB1 monoclonal antibody 20-30 minutes after protein synthesis, probably in the trans-Golgi. We refer to gp57/42 molecules that carry the CB1 epitope as CB1-gp. Pulse labeled CB1-gp contained only one core protein, p57, when chase times were 30 minutes or less. As time of chase increased from 30 to 60 minutes, a new polypeptide, p42, appeared in N-glycanase-treated CB1 immunoprecipitates. Since p57 and p42 share 10 of 13 methionyl peptides, we conclude that p42 is a fragment of p57. Cleavage of p57 to p42 was not inhibited when cells were chased in two thiol protease inhibitors or in 3,4-diisocoumarin, but was inhibited by leupeptin. Cell surface biotinylation was used to determine if newly synthesized CB1-gp was transported from the Golgi to the surface. When cells were pulse labeled and chased for 30 minutes, as much as 40% of the radiolabeled CB1-gp could be biotinylated on the cell surface. The amount of CB1-gp that could be biotinylated decreased when chases were extended from 30 to 60 minutes, suggesting that pulse labeled CB1-gp left the surface. In contrast, pulse labeled variant surface glycoprotein molecules continued to accumulate on the surface where they could be biotinylated between 30 and 60 minutes of chase. Biotinylated CB1-gp derived from cells chased for 30 minutes contained p57 but no p42. However, when labeled cells were biotinylated after a 30 minute chase and then incubated another 30 minutes at 37 degrees C, the biotinylated CB1-gp contained both p57 and p42. The p57 in biotinylated CB1-gp was not cleaved to p42 if the additional incubation was done at 4 or 12 degrees C. This suggests that transport to a compartment where processing occurs and/or the processing enzymes are inhibited by low temperature. When surface biotinylation was done after a 60 minute chase, p42 was detected in biotinylated CB1-gp, suggesting that CB1-gp molecules had passed through the processing compartment and then appeared on the cell surface. Thus, a major portion of the newly synthesized CB1-gp is routed from the Golgi to endocytic compartments via the cell surface. In trypanosomes this process involves a unique surface domain, the flagellar pocket.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A multiple antigen detection dipstick colloidal dye immunoassay for the field diagnosis of trypanosome infections in cattle.	Monoclonal antibodies (McAbs) were developed against aspartate aminotransferase purified from Trypanosoma brucei rhodesiense bloodstream form (bf) soluble extracts using a combination of anion-exchange and hydrophobic interaction chromatography. McAb 1A1 was Trypanozoon and Nannomonas specific while 2F1 was Trypanozoon bloodstream form specific. A dipstick colloidal dye immunoassay (DIA) was employed as a field diagnostic test for African trypanosome infections and designed using affinity purified polyclonal antibodies (PcAbs) raised against T. b. rhodesiense bf and the two McAbs, 1A1 and 2F1. PcAbs were adsorbed onto Palanil Red dye particles and used as dye reagents. Dipsticks were dotted with the three different antibodies, which captured trypanosomal antigens in samples tested, while the dye reagent bound to the captured antigens; the presence of coloured dots on the dipstick identified trypanosome infections. A field trial of the DIA was carried out in southeastern Uganda. A total of 1686 cattle from seven areas were bled and tested by DIA and haematocrit centrifuge technique (HCT). A total of 798 cattle (47.3%) were found to be trypanosomal antigen positive by DIA while only 162 (9.6%) were revealed to harbour trypanosomes by HCT, of which 151 (93%) were also positive by DIA.
