Resistance to trypanocidal drugs--suggestions from field survey on drug use in Kwale district, Kenya.	A household survey was conducted in 21 villages of Kwale district, Kenya, to assess farmers' trypanocidal drug use characteristics for treatment of bovine trypanosomosis and their relationship to drug effectiveness. Descriptive statistical tools were used to summarize the farmers' drug use patterns. The chi-square test was the done to establish the relationship between proper drug use and recovery. The results indicate that the farmers had considerable knowledge about trypanocidal drugs with 82% (n = 65) having used these drugs within 6 months preceding the survey. Cases of incorrect drug use were reported. This study established that there was no significant relationship between correct drug use and recovery of the treated animals, suggesting the presence of drug resistance in Kwale district.
In vivo assessment of drug sensitivity of African trypanosomes using the akinetoplastic induction test.	Following treatment of mice infected with Trypanosoma congolense or T brucei brucei with various doses of isometamidium chloride or diminazene aceturate, the induction of akinetoplastic (AK) forms was observed in the trypomastigotes of both species within 10 hours of drug administration. The levels of AK-induction were closely correlated with the levels of resistance to each compound found using a standard in vivo drug assay in mice. In general, ineffective doses of either compound conferred AK-induction rates of less than 30 per cent; relapsing cases had between 30 and 50 per cent while curative doses had AK-induction rates of 50 per cent or more. In vivo determination of AK-induction rates using ordinary light microscopy is thus a potentially feasible alternative indicator to the conventional use of mice infection and treatment methods for assessing drug sensitivity in African trypanosomes.
Protective efficacy of isometamidium chloride and diminazene aceturate against natural Trypanosoma brucei, Trypanosoma congolense and Trypanosoma vivax infections in cattle under a suppressed tsetse population in Uganda.	The protective efficacy of isometamidium chloride (ISMM) and diminazene aceturate (DIM) against Trypanosoma brucei, Trypanosoma congolense and Trypanosoma vivax infections in cattle under a suppressed tsetse population was assessed in southeast Uganda. A total of 66 and 57 trypanosome-infected cattle were treated with ISMM and DIM, respectively together with 177 trypanosome-free animals not treated were followed for 12 months, checked every 4 weeks. There was no statistical difference in the mean time to infection with any trypanosome species in animals treated with ISMM or DIM. However, the mean time to trypanosome infection was significantly longer for treated animals than controls. The mean time to infection with each of the three trypanosome species differed significantly, with the average time to T. vivax infection the lowest, followed by T. congolense and then T. brucei. The protective efficacy of DIM was as good as that of ISMM; implying curative treatments against trypanosomosis are sufficient for combination with tsetse control. Isometamidium chloride or DIM had the highest impact on T. brucei and T. congolense infections in cattle.
Variation in resistance to isometamidium chloride and diminazene aceturate by clones derived from a stock of Trypanosoma congolense.	Nine clones were derived from a drug-resistant Trypanosoma congolense stock (IL 2856) and characterized in mice for their sensitivity to isometamidium chloride and diminazene aceturate. All clones were derived from the stock without drug selection and expressed high levels of resistance to isometamidium chloride (50% curative dose [CD50] values ranging from 1.5 to 5.1 mg/kg) and intermediate to high levels of resistance to diminazene aceturate (CD50 values ranging from 5.1 to 21.0 mg/kg). By contrast, the isometamidium chloride and diminazene aceturate CD50 values for a drug-sensitive clone, T. congolense IL 1180, were 0.018 mg/kg and 2.3 mg/kg, respectively. For both drugs, there appeared to be significantly different levels in expression of drug resistance amongst the 9 clones derived from IL 2856. Isoenzyme analysis of 7 enzymes showed that all 9 clones expressed the same electrophoretic variants. Thus, all 9 clones were identical for these phenotypic markers. The clone which expressed the highest level of resistance to isometamidium in mice (IL 3270) was transmitted to Boran cattle via the bite of infected Glossina morsitans centralis. IL 3270 produced an infection rate in tsetse of 5.0%. The resulting infections in cattle were shown to be resistant to intramuscular treatment with 2.0 mg/kg isometamidium chloride and 14.0 mg/kg diminazene aceturate. This contrasts with doses of 0.25 mg/kg isometamidium chloride or 3.5 mg/kg diminazene aceturate which are deemed sufficient to cure fully sensitive infections. Finally, 9 clones (subclones) were derived from IL 3270 and characterized in mice for their sensitivity to isometamidium chloride.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Differences in sensitivity of Kenyan Trypanosoma vivax populations to the prophylactic and therapeutic actions of isometamidium chloride in Boran cattle.	Isometamidium chloride was administered as a single prophylactic dose of 0.5 mg kg-1 body weight to each of 10 Boran (Bos indicus) steers. At monthly intervals following drug administration, groups of five cattle each were challenged with one of two different Trypanosoma vivax populations transmitted by infected Glossina morsitans centralis; one with a stock (IL 2982) from Galana, Kenya and the other with a stock (IL 2986) from Likoni, Kenya. Prophylaxis was afforded for less than one month against the Galana T. vivax and for one month against the Likoni T. vivax. In a therapeutic study a further 10 Boran steers were similarly infected with either of the T. vivax populations; five steers per population. Eleven days after infection all animals were treated with 0.5 mg kg-1 isometamidium chloride and all were cured. These findings demonstrate that, as defined in the field, the two Kenyan T. vivax populations express a high level of resistance to the prophylactic action of isometamidium yet a low level of resistance to the therapeutic action of the drug. The results also indicate that differences in drug resistance between different isolates play a major role in determining the apparent period of prophylaxis afforded by isometamidium chloride.
Quantitative phenotyping of N'Dama cattle for aspects of trypanotolerance under field tsetse challenge.	Matching animal health and performance data were recorded over the 2 year period from weaning at 10 months of age on 255 N'Dama cattle in a high natural tsetse challenge situation in Zaire. Four parameters that are regarded as possible indicators of trypanotolerance, species of trypanosomes detected, length of time parasitaemic, intensity of parasitaemia (parasitaemia score), and anaemic condition as estimated by packed cell volume (PCV) values, were measured and the relative effects of changes in these parameters on trypanocidal drug requirements and growth were assessed. The effects of species of trypanosome on drug requirements and growth were directly measurable. In the case of the other three indicators, the effects on drug requirements and growth that would be brought about by a change of one standard deviation in each were calculated. This allowed comparison of similar sized changes in these three indicators that are of necessity recorded in dissimilar units. Trypanosoma vivax and Trypanosoma congolense infections had equal effects on the number of trypanocidal drug treatments required, an average of 0.61 treatments being administered to each infected post-weaner. A reduction of one standard deviation (SD) in length of time infected reduced the number of treatments required by 0.23 or 36% and an increase of 1 SD in PCV reduced the number required by 0.27 or 43%. Changes in parasitaemia score were not important. In the case of growth, a T. congolense infection reduced growth by 12.4 g day-1 or 8% more than a T. vivax infection. A reduction of 1 SD in length of time infected increased growth by 9.8 g day-1 or 6.5%, a reduction of 1 SD in parasitaemia score increased growth by 9.0 g day-1 or 6.0%, and an increase of 1 SD in average PCV increased growth by 8.4 g day-1 or 5.6%. The necessity to simultaneously measure the four criteria is clearly indicated by their approximately equal effects on the final performance trait of daily liveweight gain. Thus, absence of information on any of these criteria would significantly affect the accuracy of the estimate of an animal's overall trypanotolerance phenotype in this central African situation and reduce the progress possible in production projects involving N'Dama cattle.
Efficacy of Cymelarsan in Friesian Holstein calves infected with Trypanosoma evansi.	Two studies on the efficacy of mel Cy (Cymelarsan, Rhone Merieux, France) for the treatment of cattle infected with Trypanosoma evansi were carried out with groups of 5 Friesian Holstein calves infected with an Indonesian stock of T. evansi and treated 14 days after infection. In the first study 3 groups were injected subcutaneously with Cymelarsan at dose rates of 0.125, 0.25 and 0.50 mg/kg and in the second study 2 i/m at 0.50 and 0.75 mg/kg. The response to treatment was monitored parasitologically by daily microhaematocrit centrifugation technique and weekly mouse inoculation. Enzyme linked immunosorbent assays were used to monitor trypanosomal antibodies and trypanosomal antigens in serum samples collected weekly. Relapse infections occurred in all the groups given the drug s/c whilst all the animals treated i/m remained parasitologically negative up to 80 days after treatment. Results from serological assays, however, suggested the possible persistence of trypanosome infection in the animals treated at a dose rate of 0.50 mg/kg i/m although trypanosomes could not be demonstrated parasitologically. A dose rate of 0.75 mg/kg administered i/m is recommended, therefore, for the treatment of T. evansi infection in Friesian Holstein cattle.
Normal plasma lactose concentrations and kinetics of intravenously infused lactose in cattle.	Plasma lactose concentration and its kinetics were determined in apparently normal cattle, as a prelude to investigating its chemotherapeutic significance in bovine trypanosomiasis. It is hoped that intravenously administered lactose may be able to reduce the rate of sequestration of desialylated erythrocytes during Trypanosoma vivax infection of cattle; thus decreasing the rate of development of trypanosomal anaemia in infected animals. A range of 0.061 to 0.55 mM with a mean of 0.208 +/- 0.128 mM standard deviation (SD), observed in adult cattle was significantly lower (P<0.001) than corresponding values in recently weaned calves; 0.429 to 1.496 mM (0.972 +/- 0.318 mM). Semi-logarithmic plots from calves given a single dose (0.5 g lactose per kg bodyweight as a solution in normal saline, infused at the rate of 18 ml min(-1)) showed a biexponential pattern of regression lines. Decrease in plasma concentrations was biphasic and lactose was rapidly distributed into the extravascular space after administration. The biological half-life (t1/2) of the infused lactose ranged from 4.10 to 6.00 hours (5.01 +/- 0.81 hours); its mean elimination rate constant was 0.14 +/- 0.02 hour(-1), mean apparent volume of distribution was 168.09 +/- 56.65 ml kg(-1) while its mean total clearance was 23.54 +/- 8.31 ml kg(-1) hour(-1). A single dose rapidly reached a peak and gradually fell below the pre-infusion level while repeated doses did not cause accumulation of the lactose in the plasma as each infusion fell back to normal relatively rapidly.
