Role of calcium in monitor peptide-stimulated cholecystokinin release from perifused intestinal cells.	Monitor peptide stimulates cholecystokinin (CCK) release from the intestine, but the cellular mechanisms responsible for this effect are uncertain. In the present study, the roles of membrane potential difference and calcium influx in monitor peptide-mediated CCK release were examined in a perifusion system containing isolated mucosal cells from the rat duodenum. This method represents an in vitro system in which CCK-releasing cells can be challenged with secretagogues or other maneuvers to study the dynamics of hormone secretion. High concentrations of KCl (50 mM), which reduce electrical potential difference across the cell membrane, caused the release of CCK. This effect was inhibited by the calcium channel blocker MnCl2. Monitor peptide stimulated CCK release in a dose-dependent manner at concentrations from 3 x 10(-12) to 3 x 10(-8) M. The requirement for extracellular calcium in secretagogue-stimulated release of CCK was investigated using ethylene glycol-bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), a calcium chelator, and MnCl2. A calcium-free environment supplemented with 2 mM EGTA completely inhibited CCK secretion in response to stimulatory doses of monitor peptide. CCK secretion was restored when calcium was reintroduced into the system. Similarly, MnCl2 completely blocked monitor peptide-stimulated CCK release. These data indicate that membrane depolarization and monitor peptide stimulate the release of CCK through calcium-dependent mechanisms, suggesting that increases in intracellular calcium within CCK cells are likely to be important in CCK release.
Cholecystokinin cells purified by fluorescence-activated cell sorting respond to monitor peptide with an increase in intracellular calcium.	Cholecystokinin (CCK) is secreted from specific enteroendocrine cells of the upper small intestine upon ingestion of a meal. In addition to nutrients, endogenously produced factors appear to act within the gut lumen to stimulate CCK release. One such factor is a trypsin-sensitive CCK-releasing peptide found in pancreatic juice, known as monitor peptide. This peptide is active within the intestinal lumen and is hypothesized to stimulate CCK secretion by interacting directly with the CCK cell. We have found that monitor peptide releases CCK from isolated rat intestinal mucosal cells and that this effect is dependent upon extracellular calcium. In the present study, we used monitor peptide as a tool for isolating CCK cells from a population of small intestinal mucosal cells. Dispersed rat intestinal mucosal cells were loaded with the calcium-sensitive fluorochrome Indo-1, and CCK secretory cells were identified spectrofluorometrically by their change in fluorescence when stimulated with monitor peptide. Cells demonstrating a change in their emission fluorescence ratio were sorted using a fluorescence-activated cell sorter. More than 90% of the sorted cells stained positively for CCK with immunohistochemical staining. Furthermore, sorted cells secreted CCK when stimulated with membrane-depolarizing concentrations of potassium chloride, dibutyryl cAMP, calcium ionophore, and monitor peptide. These findings indicate that functional intestinal CCK cells can be highly enriched using fluorescence-activated cell sorting. Furthermore, monitor peptide appears to interact directly with CCK cells to signal CCK release through an increase in intracellular calcium.
Prevention of trypsin-induced shock in rats by the pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor.	Intravenously infused bovine trypsin, 75 mg kg-1 during 3 h, induced shock in rats which proved lethal. After 5 h, all the rats had died. In another group of rats receiving trypsin, the pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor, 75 mg kg-1, was infused during 5 h. These rats all survived. After about 1 h, alpha 1-macroglobulin was found to be saturated in both groups, while kininogen cleavage, coinciding with a decline in arterial blood pressure, only occurred in the untreated group. Trypsin complex formation with alpha 1-inhibitor 3 and alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor was more pronounced in untreated rats. It is concluded that the pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor may function as an effective trypsin inhibitor in plasma.
