Preparative parallel protein purification (P4).	In state of the art drug discovery, it is essential to gain structural information of pharmacologically relevant proteins. Increasing the output of novel protein structures requires improved preparative methods for high throughput (HT) protein purification. Currently, most HT platforms are limited to small-scale and available technology for increasing throughput at larger scales is scarce. We have adapted a 10-channel parallel flash chromatography system for protein purification applications. The system enables us to perform 10 different purifications in parallel with individual gradients and UV monitoring. Typical protein purification applications were set up. Methods for ion exchange chromatography were developed for different sample proteins and columns. Affinity chromatography was optimized for His-tagged proteins using metal chelating media and buffer exchange by gel filtration was also tested. The results from the present system were comparable, with respect to resolution and reproducibility, with those from control experiments on an AKTA purifier system. Finally, lysates from 10 E. coli cultures expressing different His-tagged proteins were subjected to a three-step parallel purification procedure, combining the above-mentioned procedures. Nine proteins were successfully purified whereas one failed probably due to lack of expression.
In vivo bioinsecticidal activity toward Ceratitis capitata (fruit fly) and Callosobruchus maculatus (cowpea weevil) and in vitro bioinsecticidal activity toward different orders of insect pests of a trypsin inhibitor purified from tamarind tree (Tamarindus indica) seeds.	A proteinaceous inhibitor with high activity against trypsin-like serine proteinases was purified from seeds of the tamarind tree (Tamarindus indica) by gel filtration on Shephacryl S-200 followed by a reverse-phase HPLC Vidac C18 TP. The inhibitor, called the tamarind trypsin inhibitor (TTI), showed a Mr of 21.42 kDa by mass spectrometry analysis. TTI was a noncompetitive inhibitor with a Ki value of 1.7 x 10(-9) M. In vitro bioinsecticidal activity against insect digestive enzymes from different orders showed that TTI had remarkable activity against enzymes from coleopteran, Anthonomus grandis (29.6%), Zabrotes subfasciatus (51.6%), Callosobruchus maculatus (86.7%), Rhyzopertha dominica(88.2%), and lepidopteron, Plodia interpuncptella (26.7%), Alabama argillacea (53.8%), and Spodoptera frugiperda (75.5%). Also, digestive enzymes from Diptera, Ceratitis capitata (fruit fly), were inhibited (52.9%). In vivo bioinsecticidal assays toward C. capitata and C. maculatus larvae were developed. The concentration of TTI (w/w) in the artificial seed necessary to cause 50% mortality (LD50) of larvae was 3.6%, and that to reduce mass larvae by 50.0% (ED50) was 3.2%. Furthermore, the mass C. capitata larvae were affected at 53.2% and produced approximately 34% mortality at a level of 4.0% (w/w) of TTI incorporated in artificial diets.
A trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitor from Caesalpinia bonduc seeds: isolation, partial characterization and insecticidal properties.	Evolution of proteinase inhibitor diversity in leguminous plants of tropical rainforests is under immense pressure from the regular upregulation of proteolytic machinery of their pests. The present study illustrates the isolation and bioinsecticidal potency of a serine proteinase inhibitor from the seeds of Caesalpinia bonduc (CbTI), inhabiting Great Nicobar Island, India. Following initial fractionation by ammonium sulfate precipitation, CbTI was purified to homogeneity by ion exchange, gel filtration and trypsin affinity chromatography. SDS-PAGE of gel filtrated CbTI showed a couple of proteins CbTI-1 ( approximately 16kDa) and CbTI-2 (20kDa) under non-reducing conditions, which subsequent to trypsin affinity chromatography yielded only CbTI-2. Both Native PAGE as well as iso-electric focusing showed 2 iso-inhibitors of CbTI-2 (pI values of 5.35 and 4.6). CbTI exhibited tolerance to extremes of temperatures (0-60 degrees C) and pH (1-12). A 1:1 stoichiometric ratio was noted during CbTI-2-trypsin complex formation, which was absent on binding with chymotrypsin. Further, SDS-PAGE analysis also showed that CbTI-1 has affinity only towards chymotrypsin, whereas both trypsin and chymotrypsin formed complexes with CbTI-2. Dixon plot analysis of CbTI-2 yielded inhibition constants (K(i)) of 2.75 x 10(-10)M and 0.95 x 10(-10)M against trypsin and chymotrypsin activity respectively. Preliminary investigations on the toxicological nature of CbTI revealed it to be a promising bioinsecticidal candidate.
Field-free remobilization of proteins after isoelectric focusing in packed capillaries.	Pressure-driven remobilization without an applied electric field is shown to be possible with capillary isoelectric focusing using packed capillaries. The capillary dimensions are 100 μm i.d. and 2 cm in length, and the packing is made of 0.9 μm nonporous silica particles that are chemically modified with a brush layer of polyacrylamide. Both reversible and irreversible adsorption are shown to be negligible. The packed capillaries eliminate the problem of unwanted hydrodynamic flow between reservoirs. Three proteins are focused: trypsin inhibitor, carbonic anhydrase II, and myoglobin. The time required for focusing in the packed capillaries is increased by only a factor of 2 compared to the open capillary, giving complete focusing in less than 15 min at 200 V/cm. The packed capillaries allow the use of higher electric fields, with resolution continually increasing up to at least 1500 V/cm. The packing obstructs diffusional broadening after the field is turned off: for trypsin inhibitor, D = 6.1(±0.3) × 10(-8) cm(2)/s for the packed capillary vs D = 28.8(±0.3) × 10(-8) cm(2)/s for the open capillary. The broadening contributed by the packing during remobilization is from eddy diffusion, and it is described by its plate height, H, which is the variance per unit length: H = σ(2)/L = 0.64 μm. This limits the resolution to 0.1 pH units for the 2 cm capillary having a pH range of 3-10, giving a theoretical peak capacity of 47. 
A new fluorescence turn-on assay for trypsin and inhibitor screening based on graphene oxide.	In this paper, we describe a new continuous fluorescence turn-on method for trypsin assay and inhibitor screening in situ. This assay is designed based on the following assumptions: (1) It is expected that the fluorescein-labeled peptide composed of six arginine residues (Arg(6)-FAM) with positive charges will interact with the negatively charged edge of water-soluble graphene oxide (GO) because of electrostatic interactions to form a GO/Arg(6)-FAM complex. As a result, the fluorescence of fluorescein will be quenched because of the energy transfer from fluorescein to GO. (2) Arg(6)-FAM can be hydrolyzed into small fragments in the presence of trypsin, and accordingly, the GO/Arg(6)-FAM complex will be dissociated, gradually leading to fluorescence recovery for the solution. In this way, the trypsin activity can be easily assayed with the ensemble of Arg(6)-FAM and GO. Additionally, the ensemble can be employed for screening of the inhibitors of trypsin.
Identification of flavonoids with trypsin inhibitory activity extracted from orange peel and green tea leaves.	Orange peel (Citrus sinensis) and green tea (Camellia sinensis) leaves, rich sources of food flavonoids, were analyzed for their trypsin inhibitory potential. Hesperetin, rutin and hesperidin from orange peel, and catechin from green tea leaves, were isolated and their chemical structures were analyzed. All four compounds were evaluated for their trypsin inhibitory potential.
Inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor. Inhibition spectrum of native and derived forms.	The conversion of inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor (I alpha I) into active, acid-stable derivatives by proteolytic degradation has been tested with 10 different proteinases. Of these, only plasma kallikrein, cathepsin G, neutrophil elastase, and the Staphylococcus aureus V-8 proteinase were found to be effective, each releasing more than 50% of this activity. However, a strong correlation between inhibitor degradation and significant release of acid-stable activity could only be found with the V-8 enzyme. Inhibition kinetics for the interaction of native I alpha I, the inhibitory fragment released by digestion with S. aureus V-8 proteinase, or the related urinary trypsin inhibitor, with seven different proteinases indicated that all had essentially identical Ki values with an individual enzyme and, where measurements were possible, nearly identical second order association rate constants. Significantly, none of the five human proteinases tested, including trypsin, chymotrypsin, plasmin, neutrophil elastase, and cathepsin G, would appear to have low enough Ki values to be physiologically relevant. Thus, the role of native I alpha I or its degradation products in controlling a specific proteolytic activity is still unknown.
Acid-stable trypsin-plasmin inhibitors formed enzymatically from plasma precursor protein.	Enzymatic formation of acid-stable trypsin-plasmin inhibitors (ASTPIs) in human plasma with several proteinases, particularly SH-proteinases, was demonstrated. The maximal activity obtained with bromelain was 40 U/ml plasma, which corresponded to about a 10-fold increase as compared to the untreated control plasma (4.2 U/ml). Gel filtration revealed at least two ASTPI activity peaks of molecular weight 16,000 (main peak) and 8000 (minor peak). The main ASTPI was further purified by trypsin-Sepharose affinity chromatography, isoelectric focusing and gel filtration on Sephadex G-75 superfine. The purified inhibitor was found to be identical to the active fragment of plasma ASTPI or urinary trypsin inhibitor (UTI) formed by bromelain treatment. It had an isoelectric point (pI) of 3.7, a molecular weight of 16,000 by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and was a glycine- and glutamic acid-rich protein lacking histidine. The NH2-terminal amino acid sequence was H2N-(Lys)-Glu-Asp-Ser-X-Gln-Leu-Gly-Tyr-Ser-Ala-Gly-Pro-X-Met-Gly-Met-Th r-X-Arg - Tyr-Phe-Tyr-... COOH, which was homologous to the Lys22-Met36 part (or Glu23-Met36 part; 30% of the total) of the plasma ASTPI or UTI molecule (molecular weight 70,000-80,000 by gel filtration). The purified ASTPI displayed the same antigenicity as UTI and exerted strong inhibitory effects on trypsin, chymotrypsin and plasmin amidolysis, but had a much lesser effect on plasmin fibrinolysis. It also strongly inhibited non-plasmic fibrinolysis with human leukocyte proteinase and earthworm proteinase.
Natural plant enzyme inhibitors. VI. Studies on trypsin inhibitors of Colocasia antiquorum tubers.	A trypsin inhibitor was purified from the tubers of Colocasia antiquorum. The inhibitor acted on bovine trypsin, human trypsin and weakly on bovine chymotrypsin. The inhibitor, which had a molecular weight of 40 000, contained trace amounts of carbohydrates. The purified inhibitor was stable over a pH range of 2.0--12.0 and was more thermostable than the crude preparations. Trinitrobenzene sulphonate treatment resulted in the inactivation of the inhibitor. Chymotrypsin, pepsin and pronase digested the inhibitor. Pretreatment with trypsin at neutral pH resulted in the partial loss of antitryptic activity, whereas treatment at pH 3.7 led to complete inactivation. Evidence for the formation of a trypsin-inhibitor complex at pH 7.6 is provided. During the plant growth, in the early phase (0--40 days) there was a gradual increase in protein content and in antitryptic activity. The middle phase (40--55 days) was characterized by a rapid fall and abolition of the antitryptic activity and a diminution in protein content in the tubers. The immature tubers had low antitryptic activity compared to the mature ones. Mild heat treatment caused a sharp rise in antitryptic activity in the extracts of immature tubers but not with the mature tuber preparations.
Affinity chromatography on a hydrophobic matrix using a heterobifunctional ligand.	Affinity adsorption chromatographic purification using heterobifunctional ligands and a hydrophobic support is described. Soybean trypsin inhibitor was modified with a detergent, with the result that hydrophobic residues were attached to the inhibitor. On passage through an octyl-Sepharose column the inhibitor was bound to the support. The modified inhibitor was still able to bind trypsin either in free solution or after the inhibitor was bound by the support. This procedure forms the basis for a robust affinity purification technique that can be made very general.
Kinetic properties of toxic protease inhibitors isolated from tick eggs.	1. Egg-toxins from Rhipicephalus evertsi evertsi, Boophilus microplus, Boophilus decoloratus and Hyalomma truncatum were found to be inhibitors of trypsin and in two cases also of chymotrypsin. 2. Fast tight-binding and slow-binding inhibition were observed. 3. Immunological identity of the toxins were assessed with Ouchterlony immunodiffusion and ELISA. 4. The protease content of B. decoloratus and Amblyomma hebraeum tick eggs were determined by a linked enzyme assay. 5. The predictive value of the kinetic constants in inferring a possible physiological role was discussed.
Purification and characterization of pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor in human gastric mucosa.	Immunoreactive pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor (PSTI) was purified to homogeneity from human gastric mucosa by gel chromatography, ion-exchange chromatography, and repeated reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The molecular weight of the purified immunoreactive PSTI in human gastric mucosa was estimated to be 6000. The electrophoretical mobility of purified PSTI was identical with that of the main component of PSTI in human pancreatic juice. It consisted of 56 amino acids and had the same amino acid composition as PSTI in pancreatic juice. It inhibited bovine pancreatic trypsin stoichiometrically, and did not inhibit porcine pancreatic kallikrein or elastase. Heat treatment of immunoreactive PSTI in gastric mucosa showed the same inactivation curve of immunoreactivity as that of pancreatic juice PSTI.
Kunitz-type proteinase inhibitors derived by limited proteolysis of the inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor, IX. Isolation and characterization of the inhibitory parts of inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitors from several mammalian sera.	The inhibitory parts of inter-alpha-trypsin inhibitor-like proteins from several mammalian sera (sheep, goat, horse, donkey, pig, rabbit, rat and dog) were released by limited proteolysis with trypsin and were isolated by reversible binding to immobilized trypsin. The inhibitors are very similar with respect to their stability in acids, molecular masses and amino-acid compositions. They are different, however, in their inhibitory properties. In view of the known covalent structures of the inhibitory parts of the human and bovine inhibitors, homologous covalent structures consisting of two tandem Kunitz-type domains are suggested also for the isolated inhibitors. Bovine trypsin, bovine chymotrypsin and porcine plasmin are inhibited by all investigated inhibitors, most likely via their C-terminal domain. The inhibitors from horse, donkey, rabbit, rat and dog serum interact also with elastase from human polymorphonuclear granulocytes, those from sheep, goat and pig serum inhibit in addition porcine pancreatic elastase and bovine chymotrypsin via their N-terminal Kunitz-type domain. It is supposed that the amino-acid residue in position P1 of the N-terminal Kunitz-type domain is responsible for the characteristic inhibitory properties of each inhibitor.
Purification and properties of a progesterone-induced plasmin/trypsin inhibitor from uterine secretions of pigs and its immunocytochemical localization in the pregnant uterus.	The porcine uterus secretes a group of basic, low molecular weight protease inhibitors under the influence of progesterone, but not estrogen. One of these inhibitors (Mr approximately 14,500) which inhibits trypsin, plasmin, and chymotrypsin, but not other proteases tested, has been purified 10- to 15-fold from uterine secretions of pseudopregnant pigs using Sephadex G-100 chromatography, CM-cellulose ion exchange chromatography, and Sephadex G-50 or Bio-Gel P-10 chromatography. The inhibitor which is relatively heat- and pH-stable forms a 1:1 molar complex with trypsin which is not dissociated in sodium dodecyl sulfate except by boiling. Chymotrypsin appears to bind at the same site on the inhibitor as trypsin. The inhibitor is high in half-cysteine residues and basic amino acids, and appears not to be a glycoprotein. Antiserum has been raised against the purified inhibitor in rabbits and used to test its distribution in pigs using the immunoperoxidase-staining technique on tissue sections. The inhibitor is associated only with the glandular and surface epithelium of the uterus. Endometrial explants from pseudopregnant animals, cultured in presence of L-[3H]leucine, release the inhibitor in radioactive form indicating that it is a uterine product. The antiserum against the inhibitor cross-reacts with at least three other, basic, low molecular weights plasmin/trypsin inhibitors in porcine uterine secretions, suggesting that a family of isoinhibitors exists which may constitute up to 15% of the protein in porcine uterine secretions. The inhibitor(s) appears to coat and to be taken up by the trophoectoderm cells of the elongating blastocyst during pregnancy. It is suggested that the inhibitors may serve to protect the uterus from proteases released by the porcine trophoblast or to prevent degradation of essential macromolecules, such as uteroferrin, which have to be taken up by the conceptus.
Low molecular weight proteinase inhibitors. II. Extraction and identification of activity from infiltrating ductal carcinoma during lactation.	Extracts of both infiltrating ductal carcinoma and non-tumorous tissue were obtained from the same mastectomy specimen of a lactating female patient. The extracts were ultrafiltered and concentrated to recover proteins having nominal molecular weights between 1000 and 50,000 daltons. Although the final concentrates of both samples contained proteinase-inhibitory activities with electrophoretic mobilities similar to that of Trasylol, only the extract from the tumour had significant trypsin-inhibitory activity as expressed by the inhibition of the hydrolysis of TAME (p-tosyl-L-arginine methyl ester). Molecular sieve chromatography by high performance liquid chromatography of the final concentrate of the tumour indicated that the activity was present in three peaks having apparent molecular weights of less than 17,000.
Studies on TI-2 trypsin inhibitor of Streptomyces griseus.	The trypsin inhibitor TI-2 produced by Streptomyces griseus Cal in a medium, containing beef extract and peptone as the nitrogen source, was purified by ammonium sulfate precipitation and gel filtration. Amino acid analysis showed that it contained hydroxyproline and carbohydrate whereas tyrosine, tryptophan, and cystine were absent. The composition of the inhibitor protein thus showed a similarity to collagen. Growth of the organism in a medium with gelatin as the sole nitrogen source resulted in the production of the same TI-2 inhibitor. Incubation of gelatin with either concentrated culture filtrate, trypsin, or chymotrypsin also yielded trypsin inhibitors. The product isolated from the in vitro incubation of gelatin with trypsin appeared to be the same as TI-2. To the author's knowledge, this is the first report that peptides obtained by enzymic hydrolyses of gelatin are trypsin inhibitors.
Purification and characterization of an acidic trypsin/subtilisin inhibitor from tortoise egg white.	Egg whites of three species of tortoise and turtle have been compared by gel chromatography for inhibitory activity against proteases. The egg white of Geomyda trijuga trijuga Schariggar contains trypsin/subtilisin inhibitor while the egg white of Caretta caretta Linn. contains both trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitors. No protease inhibitory activity has been detected in the egg white of Trionyx gangeticus Cuvier. An acidic trypsin/subtilisin inhibitor has been purified to homogeneity from the egg white of tortoise (G. trijuga trijuga). It is a single polypeptide chain of 100 amino acid residues, having a molecular weight of 11,700. It contains six disulphide bonds and is devoid of methionine and carbohydrate moiety. Its isoelectric point is at pH 5.95 and is stable at 100 degrees C for 4 hr at neutral pH. The inhibitor inhibits both trypsin and subtilisin by forming enzyme-inhibitor complexes at a molar ratio close to unity. Their dissociation constants are 7.2 x 10(-9) M for bovine trypsin and 5.5 x 10(-7) M for subtilisin. Chemical modification of amino groups with trinitrobenzene sulfonate has reduced its inhibitory activities against both trypsin and subtilisin, but the loss of its trypsin inhibitory activity is faster than that of its subtilisin inhibitory activity. It has independent binding sites for inhibition of trypsin and subtilisin.
1H-NMR studies of the structure and stability of the bovine pancreatic secretory trypsin inhibitor.	The tertiary structure of the isoinhibitor A (Kazal) isolated from bovine pancreatic tissue has been characterized by 1H-NMR studies in 2H2O solution. A number of slowly exchanging backbone amides are observed. The dynamics of the aromatic side chains and their interaction with methyl groups from aliphatic residues are essentially identical in the bovine and in the homologous inhibitor from porcine pancreas. Both inhibitors contain two tyrosines in positions 20 and 31 as the only aromatic residues. The previous assignment of the aromatic resonances in the porcine inhibitor is valid for the bovine homolog, as deduced from selective nuclear Overhauser enhancement (NOE) experiments. The tyrosine which inhibits an NMR spectral pattern characteristic of rapid ring motion does not show appreciable NOE to backbone or sidechain protons, in agreement with the solvent exposure predicted for Tyr-20 in the porcine inhibitor. In contrast, the immobilized Tyr-31 exhibits a NOE pattern that indicates close interaction with a number of backbone amide protons and aliphatic side chain groups, confirming that the aromatic ring is buried. At 90 degrees C, pH 5, the protein is still substantially folded, as manifested by both backbone and side chain resonances. The results are compared with previous optical rotatory dispersion findings. A number of side chain resonances were assigned to specific amino acid residues in the sequence.
Trypsin inhibitor from Gleditsia triacanthos L. seeds]	The trypsin inhibitor from Gleditsia triacanthos (L.) seeds was purified by affinity chromatography on a column with trypsin-Sepharose 4B. The isolated inhibitor is a single-chain protein with molecular weight of about 20 000. The inhibitor suppresses bovine trypsin at a molar rate of 1 : 1, but weakly inhibits chymotrypsin in a non-stoichiometric manner. Some properties of the isolated inhibitor closely resembled those of soybean trypsin inhibitor (Kunitz).
Purification and characterization of protease inhibitors from peanuts (Arachis hypogaea).	Five protease inhibitors were isolated from peanut seeds and named A-I, A-II, B-I, B-II, and B-III. These inhibitors seemed to be Bowman-Birk type inhibitors judging from their low molecular weights and high cystine contents. All the inhibitors inhibited both bovine trypsin and chymotrypsin at ratios of 1:2 and 1:1, respectively, but not simultaneously. The complexes of the inhibitors and trypsin no longer inhibit chymotrypsin. On the other hand, their complexes with chymotrypsin inhibit trypsin with a slow release of chymotrypsin.
Three novel subtilisin-trypsin inhibitors from Streptomyces: primary structures and inhibitory properties.	Three novel proteinaceous inhibitors, which had been identified as "Streptomyces subtilisin inhibitor-like (SIL) proteins" and exhibited trypsin inhibition in addition to strong inhibition toward subtilisin BPN', were purified from the culture broth of three Streptomyces strains: SIL10 from S. thermotolerans, SIL13 from S. galbus, and SIL14 from S. azureus. Their primary structures were determined by sequence analysis of intact SIL inhibitors and peptides obtained by enzymatic digestions of S-pyridylethylated SIL inhibitors. These inhibitors were composed of about 110 amino acids and existed as dimer proteins. The reactive site was identified as Lys-Gln for all three inhibitors by sequence analysis of their modified forms in which the reactive-site peptide bond was specifically cleaved by subtilisin BPN' under acidic conditions. Thus, their inhibition toward trypsin and subtilisin BPN' was due to the presence of a Lys residue at the P1 site. Inhibitor constants toward subtilisin BPN' and trypsin were also determined. These inhibitors showed relatively high sequence homology to other SSI-family inhibitors possessing a Lys residue at the P1 site, with amino acid replacements on their molecular surface.
An improved method for the purification of eggplant trypsin inhibitor.	The trypsin inhibitor in eggplant, Solanum melongena L., was isolated and purified by the improved method with the techniques of dialysis using acetylated cellulose tube and ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephadex. The final preparation was found to be homogeneous by disc and SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. This inhibitor had the molecular weight of about 6,200, the pI value of 4.7, and furthermore characteristic amino acid composition lacking in tryptophan, histidine, valine and methionine. The trypsin inhibition data indicated that the purified inhibitor combined with bovine trypsin [EC 3.4.21.4] in the molar ratio of 1:1. These properties of this inhibitor were in agreement with those of the dialyzable eggplant trypsin inhibitor previously purified, indicating that the dialyzable and non-dialyzable inhibitors in eggplant are identical.
Trypsin inhibitors of wheat seedlings infected and treated with salicylic acid]	Using the method of affinity chromatography for trypsin-sepharose, followed by PAGE electrophoresis the component composition of trypsin inhibitors was studied. The inhibitors were extracted from the winter wheat seedlings which were infected with Fusarium fungus and also from the seedlings treated with salicylic acid. Under the action of pathogen not only a quantitative increase in the protein components of trypsin inhibitor but also the appearance of a new component with a molecular weight of 29 kDa are observed. The influence of Fusarium graminearum and salicylic acid on the amino acid composition of trypsin inhibitors has been studied. After the inhibitors purification their antienzyme spectrum was studied along with their influence on the pathogen proteases. It was established that the inhibitors influence only the activity of trypsin and chymotrypsin and do not influence the activity of pepsin, elastases, papain, proteinases from the wheat seedlings. The existence of arginine and absence of lysine was demonstrated in the active centre of the inhibitors.
