Orchiectomy for tuberculous epididymitis: a report of two cases with intractable to antituberculosis treatment]	This paper describes two cases with tuberculous epididymitis. The first case was a 69-year-old man who was admitted to our hospital because of ulceration or right scrotum. Physical examination revealed a hard, rounded, a little bigger than egg-sized mass in the right scrotum. The second case was a 40-year-old man who was admitted to our hospital because of cough, fever and body weight loss. He was treated for pulmonary tuberculosis with isoniazid, rifampicin, streptomycin and pyrazinamide. Six months after admission, he complained of a painless swelling of the right scrotum. Physical examination revealed a hard, rounded, more than egg-sized mass in the right scrotum. Right orchiectomy was performed in these two cases, and they were cured.
Drug-resistant genital tuberculosis of the penis in a human immunodeficiency virus non-reactive individual.	The genitourinary tract is the most common site for extrapulmonary tuberculosis (TB). Penile TB is extremely rare comprising less than 1 % of all genital TB cases in males. It most commonly presents either as a superficial ulcer on the glans or around the corona. Diagnosis of penile TB is often difficult because it can mimic numerous other diseases. The association of TB with AIDS, and the increasing incidence of multiple drug resistance has further compounded the problem. The case described herein involves a patient with multidrug-resistant smear-positive penile TB that was undiagnosed initially due to the lack of clinical suspicion of TB, and once diagnosed failed to respond to first line antitubercular drugs because of multiple drug resistance.
Case report and review: Potts disease and epididymal tuberculosis presenting as back pain and scrotal mass.	Tuberculosis (TB) is the world's leading infectious disease killer after AIDS [Tubercle. 1991;72:1-6; Lancet. 2003;362(9387):887-899]. Vertebral TB is the most common form of skeletal TB [Spine. 1997; 22(15):1791-1797], whereas male genital TB is an uncommon form of extrapulmonary TB [Urol Clin North Am. 2003;30(1):111-121]. We present the case of a man who presented to the emergency department with a history of acute on chronic back pain and an incidental scrotal mass. He was subsequently diagnosed with tuberculosis spondylitis (Potts disease) and epididymal tuberculosis. The epidemiology, clinical presentation, diagnosis, and treatment of tuberculosis spondylitis are discussed.
Granulomatous prostatitis.	Twenty cases of granulomatous prostatitis are presented. They were identified, histologically or cytologically, among 1,316 patients with prostatic pathology at the General Hospital of Asturias during a period of 3 years (Jan. 1984 to Dec. 1986). The etiology, histogenesis, clinical and morphological aspects, treatment and prognosis of the different types of granulomatous prostatitis, according to a classification by the authors, are discussed. The significance of the differentiation of granulomatous prostatitis from carcinoma is discussed. Fine-needle aspiration cytology (Franzen) is recommended as the diagnostic method of choice.
