Dot-ELISA vs. PCR of fine needle aspirates of tuberculous lymphadenitis: a prospective study in India.	To evaluate an in-house dot-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for confirmation of clinically suspected cases of tuberculous lymphadenitis (TBLN).
Mycobacterial lymphadenitis--case report]	Mycobacterial lymphadenitis is still a common and often poorly treated disease. Cervical lymph-node is most frequently involved. Mycobacterium tuberculosis clearly preponderates as the cause of mycobacterial cervical lymphadenitis in adults while other mycobacteria (MOTT) area mostly the causes of the same disease in children. Diagnostic methods and treatment choices between both groups are therefore different. It seems appropriate to perform total excisional biopsy in children especially in R.O.C. where skin test to differentiate between TB and MOTT is useless due to BCG vaccination. Current policy for mycobacterial lymphadenitis in adult is based on clinical diagnosis and chemotherapy. Biopsy is reserved for patients who fail to respond, including the small portion of patients in whom lymph nodes enlarge during chemotherapy. Lymph nodes can appear a fresh or enlarge during or after treatment, but they usually resolve spontaneously.
Diversity of Mycobacterium avium subsp. hominissuis mycobacteria causing lymphadenitis, France.	The knowledge of Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) genotypes responsible for lymphadenitis is limited. We retrospectively characterized all of the MAC isolates made in our laboratory in the last 18 years by sequence-based identification and genotyping, and compared the clinical and laboratory data for lymphadenitis-associated and non-lymphadenitis-associated MAC isolates. Of 67 MAC-infected patients, 25 lymphadenitis patients were significantly younger than 42 non-lymphadenitis patients, while the male/female ratio did not significantly differ between the two groups. Cervical topography found in 76.5% of lymphadenitis patients was significantly more frequent in non-immunocompromised patients (p=0.04). M. avium subsp. hominissuis was identified in 53 patients (24 lymphadenitis, 29 non-lymphadenitis), M. colombiense in six patients (five non-lymphadenitis, one lymphadenitis), M. intracellulare in four non-lymphadenitis patients, and M. chimaera in three non-lymphadenitis patients, while negative controls remained negative. M. hominissuis was significantly associated with lymphadenitis (p=0.03). M. hominissuis isolates yielded 15 genotypes in 29 non-lymphadenitis isolates (molecular diversity, 0.622) versus 11 genotypes in 24 lymphadenitis isolates (molecular diversity, 0.578), demonstrating a non-significant lower diversity of M. hominissuis isolates cultured from lymphadenitis. The genotypes did not correlate with the clinical features. These data suggest the presence of several environmental reservoirs for M. hominissuis causing lymphadenitis in France.
Cervical lymphadenitis caused by Mycobacterium avium in an immunocompetent adult]	Cervical lymphadenitis due to Mycobacterium avium complex is relatively common in children but is extremely rare in adults, except in immunocompromised patients. In this report, we describe a case of isolated cervical lymphadenitis in an immunocompetent adult woman. Histological examination of the excised lymph node showed multiple epithelioid cell granulomata with necrosis. Further, from the biopsy specimen cultures, we identified the causative organism as Mycobacterium avium. The patient was not administered any antimycobacterial agents because the affected lymph node was removed completely and because of uncertainty regarding the benefits of such treatment. No recurrence was observed in the patient's neck region during postoperative follow-up at 8 months.
Clinical significance of nontuberculous mycobacteria. A bacteriological survey of Swedish strains isolated between 1973 and 1981.	An account is rendered of mycobacteria other than Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolated from specimens sent for culture during 9 years. The possible etiological significance of these bacteria was estimated from clinical data and the degree of bacterial growth. Pulmonary infection was the most common nontuberculous manifestation in the adults. In about 50% of the patients with slowly growing mycobacteria in their respiratory tract, these bacteria were considered to be an etiological factor. This applied to the species of the M. avium-intracellulare (MAI) complex and M. xenopi. M. Kansasii, a common cause of lung disease in many other countries, was rarely isolated. The corresponding figure for the rapidly growing mycobacteria belonging to the M. fortuitum-chelonei complex was 15%. These patients were all severely debilitated by other diseases. Lymphadenitis was the most common nontuberculous infection in children, but occurred only in children not vaccinated with BCG. Bacteria of the MAI complex was the predominating cause. Lung infection caused by nontuberculous mycobacteria did not occur in children.
Tuberculous lymphadenitis caused by Mycobacterium bovis]	According to the literature, bovine tuberculosis in man has been an illness of minor importance in Norway, unlike in Sweden and Denmark. This situation cannot be explained, since in former days infected cattle were a problem in the southeastern part of the country in particular. No case of bovine tuberculosis in humans has been reported in Norway since 1940. Recently we have observed a 29-year-old female immigrant from India with cervical lymph node tuberculosis caused by M. bovis. A second case is a 77-year-old Norwegian male. In the 1920s, at the age of ten, he was infected in Norway by drinking raw milk from tuberculous cattle. He developed tuberculosis of the mesenterial lymph nodes. Neither of these patients had tuberculosis in any other part of their body. Previous Norwegian reports, covering eight cases, are summarized.
Isolation of a novel mycobacterium from an adolescent with cervical lymphadenitis.	A slow-growing mycobacterium was isolated from a cervical lymph node of an adolescent male. This isolate produced small, smooth, scotochromogenic colonies after 6 weeks of incubation at 25 degrees C and 30 degrees C (but not at 37 degrees C or 43 degrees C). The results of 16S-rRNA gene sequencing and high-performance liquid chromatography suggest that this isolate belongs to a hitherto unrecognised pathogenic species.
Mycobacterium canettii, the smooth variant of M. tuberculosis, isolated from a Swiss patient exposed in Africa.	An exceptionally smooth and glossy morphotype of Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex was isolated from a 56-year-old Swiss patient with mesenteric tuberculosis. Direct 16S rRNA sequence analysis of the hypervariable signature gene regions revealed a 100% homology to the specific M. tuberculosis complex sequence. Spoligotyping and restriction fragment length polymorphism analyses using the insertion sequences IS6110 and IS1081 and the polymorphic GC-rich sequence as additional genetic markers identified the isolate as the novel taxon M. canettii. Like a Somali child with a similar case, this patient probably contracted the infection in Africa, which raises questions about the geographic distribution of M. canettii.
