A girl with Takayasu arteritis associated with possible systemic lupus erythematosus.	Takayasu arteritis is an inflammatory disease that affects the aorta and its main branches. Its etiology is obscure. Its association with systemic lupus erythematosus has been reported in the English literature in about 20 cases worldwide, and a relationship with a positive tuberculin test, either with or without tuberculosis, has also been mentioned. We report a pediatric patient who presented with renovascular hypertension secondary to Takayasu arteritis associated with a strongly positive tuberculin test and who subsequently developed possible systemic lupus erythematosus 8 months later.
Clinicoradiological features of tuberculous meningitis in patients over 50 years of age.	Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is a debilitating form of CNS tuberculosis with a high morbidity and mortality in spite of treatment. The diagnosis is based on clinical, radiological and laboratory features. The classical CT features of basal exudates, hydrocephalus, infarcts and granulomas have been mostly reported in younger individuals. Our aim was to study imaging features of TB meningitis in adults over the age of 50 years.
Tuberculous meningitis-induced unilateral sensorineural hearing loss: a temporal bone study.	The relationship between meningitis and sensorineural hearing loss (SNHL) has long been studied. Many histopathological studies of animal models and human temporal bones with respect to bacterial meningitis have been carried out. However, the relationship between SNHL and tuberculous meningitis was seldom addressed and the pathophysiology remains unclear. We carried out temporal bone studies on material from a 22-year-old patient who developed a right unilateral SNHL before dying from tuberculous meningitis. The histopathological findings for the right temporal bone were as follows: (1) inflammation mainly appeared in the internal auditory canal, modiolus and Rosenthal's canal and extended to the osseous spiral ligament, whereas the perilymphatic spaces were less involved; (2) the organ of Corti, cochlear nerve fibres and spiral ganglion cells were severely degenerated, particularly in the basal and middle turns; (3) the contralateral side (for which the patient had no complaints) showed an inner space free from inflammation, but some granulomatous formations were observed in the middle ear cavity. We conclude that the modiolus and cochlear aqueduct are the main routes for the spread of infection from the meninges to the inner ear. The progression of hearing loss resembles that of bacterial meningitis and shares attributes of retrocochlear SNHL.
Computed tomography of tuberculous meningitis in infants and children.	Three cases are used to illustrate the computed tomography (CT) findings of tuberculous meningitis in infants and children. The clinical and laboratory findings of these patients are presented, and the differential diagnosis of viral, bacterial and fungal meningitis is reviewed. Tuberculous meningitis should be suspected, even in the infant or child with a negative tuberculin skin test, when a chronically ill patient presents with the acute signs of meningismus, the cerebrospinal fluid analysis demonstrates a low glucose and monocytosis, and cranial CT shows ventricular enlargement with prominent basal and sylvian fissure enhancement after intravenous contrast medium injection. The ease and safety of serial CT examinations make this procedure the ideal radiological method to follow the patient's course in order to evaluate the response to treatment.
Current aspects of frontal sinus surgery. IV: On therapy of frontal sinus osteoma]	Osteomas are the most common benign tumors of frontal sinus. We evaluated 15 patients with osteomas of the frontal sinus who were managed between 1979 and 1992. The average duration of follow-up was 33 months. In 4 cases osteomas were removed completely via the endonasal route using a microscope and endoscope. We recommend performing a frontal sinus drainage-type 3 primarily. Indications are osteomas of the posterior wall of the frontal sinus located close to the infundibulum. For osteomas of the anterior wall and those located laterally or for very large osteomas we prefer the osteoplastic approach. Apart from the excellent exposure this latter procedure also provides good aesthetic results after carefully placed incisions and precise replacement of the bone flap. We recommend the bicoronal incision in patients with large frontal sinuses, women, or in the presence of good hair growth. Incisions are best placed in a frontal crease in patients with hair loss or a, small frontal sinus.
MR imaging and angiography in tuberculous meningitis.	MRI was performed on 26 patients with tuberculous meningitis, with particular reference to document the cranial nerve abnormalities. MR angiography (MRA) was performed in 20 of the patients. Meningeal enhancement in the basal cisterns or over the convexity of brain was seen in all patients; two show ependymal enhancement. Tuberculomas, single (3), multiple (12) or miliary (2) were detected in 17 patients. Of the 9 patients with cranial nerve palsies, 7 showed contrast enhancement with or without thickening of the involved nerve. Abnormality signal intensity of the involved nerve was seen on proton density and T2-weighted images in one of these patients. MRA revealed focal arterial narrowing in 10 patients, the vessels commonly affected being the terminal segment of the internal carotid artery and the proximal segments of the middle and anterior cerebral arteries. One patient also had a small aneurysm of the proximal middle cerebral artery. Infarcts, haemorrhagic (8) or bland (6), were detected in 14 patients; most were the basal ganglia and internal capsules, large middle or anterior cerebral arterial territory infarcts being seen in only two cases.
Central nervous system tuberculosis: MRI.	The MRI findings of 18 proven cases of central nervous system (CNS) tuberculosis were reviewed; 10 patients were seropositive for HIV. All had medical, laboratory, or surgical proof of CNS tuberculosis. Eleven patients had meningitis, of whom two also had arachnoiditis. Five patients had focal intra-axial tuberculomas: four brain masses and one an intramedullary spinal lesion. Two patients had focal extra-axial tuberculomas: one in the pontine cistern, and one in the spine. In all 11 patients with meningitis MRI showed diffuse, thick, meningeal enhancement. All intraparenchymal tuberculomas showed low signal intensity on T2-weighted images and ring or nodular enhancement. The extra-axial tuberculomas had areas isointense or hypointense relative to normal brain and spinal cord on T2-weighted images. Although tuberculous meningitis cannot be differentiated from other meningitides on the basis of MR findings, intraparenchymal tuberculomas show characteristic T2 shortening, not found in most other space-occupying lesions. In the appropriate clinical setting, tuberculoma should be considered.
Pathomorphosis of tuberculosis in children of early and preschool age (autopsy data)]	A total of 339 protocols of autopsies of babies infants, and pre-school children within 50 year (1947-1996) are analyzed. As compared with 1947-1956, in the past 3 decades the autopsies showed 14.6-, 35.7-, and 79.7-fold reductions in babies, infants, and preschool children, respectively. However, the past 5 years is marked by a reversal of more severe tuberculosis in children under 3 years, which necessitates to intensify social, prophylactic, and therapeutical antituberculosis measures among children.
