Pathological characteristics of drug-resistant fibrocavernous pulmonary tuberculosis]	A histological examination of the pulmonary and bronchopulmonary lymph nodes was made in 47 patients treated surgically for fibrocavernous pulmonary tuberculosis. The speed of immunopathological reactions development is the main reason of differences between drug-resistant and drug-sensitive primary tuberculosis. Formation of cellular immunity in drug-resistant tuberculosis has all necessary morphological prerequisites both in the lungs and lymph nodes but their realization is delayed. Immunogenesis concentrates on the early stages when initial paraspecific reactions prevail. Morphologically, they are most demonstrative in the bronchial walls where in different patients or even in one patient but in various bronchi all reactions of delayed type (contact, tuberculine type and granulematous) can be simultaneously observed.
Cavitary lung disease. How to read the radiographic patterns.	Many disorders and abnormalities are accompanied by cavitary lesions of the lung, including various diseases that may destroy or replace lung tissue. The most common causes of cavitary lung disease are primary and metastatic neoplasms, granulomas, and necrotizing pulmonary infections. These diseases often have radiographic patterns, clinical signs, and symptoms that are characteristic and may suggest a diagnosis.
Comparative analysis of various cytohistological techniques in diagnosis of lung diseases.	A prospective study was conducted on 100 patients divided in two groups who underwent fiberoptic bronchoscopy (FOB). Group I consisted of 60 cases of suspected lung malignancy on clinical and radiological examination, while group II consisted of 40 cases of nonneoplastic lung diseases. Pre-FOB sputum, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), and bronchial brushing (BB) were done in all the cases, while forceps biopsy (FB), transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA), and transthoracic needle aspiration were done in 56, 25, and 15 patients, respectively. BB and FB showed a sensitivity of 70.83 and 70% respectively in the diagnosis of malignancy. BAL was found to be positive in 37.5% patients. TBNA had the highest sensitivity of 83.33% whereas pre-FOB sputum and post-FOB sputum were positive only in 27.58 and 29.06% cases. In nonneoplastic group, BAL showed sensitivity of 80 and 83.33% in diagnosing tuberculosis and fungal diseases whereas BB was positive in 60 and 66.66% patients, respectively. Thus a combination of various cytohistological techniques results in a statistically significant increase in the diagnostic yield of various neoplastic and nonneoplastic lung diseases. BB, FB, and TBNA are complimentary in diagnosis of various lung malignancies whereas BAL is a useful procedure in detection of infectious diseases.
Percutaneous transthoracic needle biopsies in the rapid diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis.	From May, 1987, to December, 1990, 173 percutaneous transthoracic needle biopsies (PTNB) using a 19-gauge spinal needle under uniplane fluoroscopic guidance were performed in 160 patients. Thirty-one patients had a final diagnosis of pulmonary tuberculosis. These patients with tuberculosis underwent a total of 35 biopsies. Twenty of 35 (57%) had definite histologic features of tuberculosis with stainable acid-fast bacilli, 4/35 (11.5%) had granulomatous or caseous lesion consistent with tuberculosis, and 11/35 had nonspecific inflammatory changes. When results were matched with the sputum culture results, 15/35 specimens (43%) provided the exclusive means of diagnosis of tuberculosis. Five of 35 (14%) patients developed postbiopsy pneumothoraces. The overall acceptance by patients was good. This report indicates the potential usefulness of PTNB in the rapid diagnosis of selected cases of suspected pulmonary tuberculosis. The yield was comparable to fiberoptic bronchoscopy, currently commonly used in the diagnosis of pulmonary mycobacterial disease. The procedure was noted for its simplicity.
Mycobacterium bovis BCG immunization induces protective immunity against nine different Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains in mice.	Recent preclinical and epidemiologic studies have suggested that certain Mycobacterium tuberculosis genotypes (in particular, Beijing lineage strains) may be resistant to Mycobacterium bovis BCG vaccine-induced antituberculosis protective immunity. To investigate the strain specificity of BCG-induced protective responses in a murine model of pulmonary tuberculosis, C57BL/6 mice were vaccinated with BCG vaccine and then challenged 2 months later with one of nine M. tuberculosis isolates. Four of these strains were from the W-Beijing lineage (HN878, N4, NHN5, and ChS) while four were non-Beijing-type isolates (C913, CDC1551, NY669, and NY920). As a control, the WHO standard M. tuberculosis Erdman strain was evaluated in these vaccination/challenge experiments. To assess the protective responses evoked by BCG immunization, organ bacterial burdens and lung pathology were assessed in vaccinated and naïve mice at 4, 12, and 20 weeks postchallenge as well as during the day of infection. At 4 weeks after the aerosol challenge with each of these strains, significantly reduced bacterial growth in the lungs and spleens and significantly improved lung pathology were seen in all vaccinated animals compared to naïve controls. After 12 weeks, reduced organ bacterial burdens were detected in vaccinated animals infected with six of nine challenge strains. Although lung CFU values were lower in vaccinated mice for only three of nine groups at 20 weeks postchallenge, significantly decreased lung inflammation was seen in all immunized animals relative to controls at 20 weeks postchallenge. Taken together, these data demonstrate that BCG vaccination protects against infection with diverse M. tuberculosis strains in the mouse model of pulmonary tuberculosis and suggest that strain-specific resistance to BCG-induced protective immunity may be uncommon.
Omentoplasty in thoracic surgery.	Plombage methods were designed for treating pulmonary tuberculosis surgically around 1945 when pulmonary tuberculosis was regarded as a "traitor disease" in Japan. Nagaishi had reported extrapleural synthetic resin ball plombage in 1948 as the world's first case, but it was complicated by empyema due to perforation of cavities and rupture of lesions because the resin ball was hard. Later, fillers were improved by using soft material. At the present time, only air plombage and omentoplasty remain. Especially the latter has gained widespread use in the thoracic surgery field and become a standard procedure. Chronic empyema with bronchopleural fistula sometime requires surgical treatment despite the development of various antibiotics, but highly stressful surgery that can cause reduced pulmonary function or thoracic deformity must be avoided. Therefore, one-stage omentoplasty utilizing such omental multi-functions as hose action, angiogenesis, sucker action, and the immune reaction has been found to have clinical significance for thoracic empyema and its complications. This method is described in detail.
Pneumonectomy secondary to Mycobacterium fortuitum in infancy.	Severe necrotic lung disease as a result of infection with a rapidly growing mycobacteria occurred in a 4-month-old infant. Successful treatment required a pneumonectomy.
A case of symmetrical and bilateral tuberculoma of both lung apices]	A 28-year-old man with solitary nodular shadows in both lungs was admitted. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate was accelerated, with elevation of the serum IAP values, and the tuberculin reaction was strongly positive. The X-Ray film of the chest revealed symmetrical and bilateral nodular shadow in both lung apices. Both nodular lesions revealed a tendency to grow, pleural indentation and spiculated margins. Moreover, the tomogram film showed convergence of the pulmonary vein branch in the central part of the left apex nodule. Since it was extremely difficult to distinguish these lesions from malignant nodules based on just radiographic findings, an exploratory thoracotomy was carried out. The histologic diagnosis of both nodules was tuberculoma. Currently, the radiologic criteria used to distinguish between benign and malignant lesions are assessment of size, contour, absence or presence of tumor growing tendency by serial radiographs, calcification as well as the relation between the lesion with the pulmonary vasculature. It was concluded that, as was shown by this case, the radiographic criteria appear to be insufficient to categorize the nature of a lesion into benign or malignant. Consequently, more reliable non-invasive techniques would be desirable for the accurate diagnosis of tuberculosis.
Blind transbronchial needle aspiration without an on-site cytopathologist: experience of 473 procedures.	Transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) is an established procedure for sampling the mediastinal lymph nodes. Data reported from India are limited on this routine procedure. We describe our experience of the efficacy, diagnostic accuracy and safety of TBNA.
Transbronchial needle aspiration: a tool for a community bronchoscopist.	Conventional transbronchial needle aspiration (C-TBNA) has been proven to be a safe, minimally invasive, and cost-effective technique in establishing the diagnosis of mediastinal pathologies. We studied the success of C-TBNA in our community practice, in patients with mediastinal lymphadenopathies.
Sudden death due to massive hemoptysis secondary to pulmonary tuberculosis--a case report.	Forensic pathologists deal not only with criminal, accidental and suicidal deaths, but also with a wide range of deaths from natural causes. Natural deaths at times can be sudden, unexpected and unattended by the relatives or friends or eye witnesses. In such cases, even though there is no criminal element in their causation, the case has to be investigated and medico-legal autopsy has to be conducted to know the exact cause of death, thus putting an end to the allegations raised. A 55-year-old male was found dead lying in his room in a pool of blood without any obvious injuries under suspicious circumstances with disturbed furniture in his room. The case was investigated due to suspicious circumstances of his death and absence of history of significant medical illness. The autopsy revealed the death was due to asphyxiation as a result of massive hemoptysis secondary to fibro-cavitatory tuberculosis. 
Changes in the human epiphysis in fibrocavernous tuberculosis of the lungs]	Histologically detected lesions of the epiphysis in patients who died of fibrocavernous tuberculosis of the lung are described. The lesions were of nonspecific nature and appeared as pinealocyte dystrophy, decreased secretory parenchyma and developed replacement gliosis and were accompanied by pronounced calcification. Quantitative mathematical techniques such as stereometry or informative entropy indicated the adaptive nature of the described lesions in the epiphysis and its role in pathogenesis of the clinicomorphological type of tuberculosis.
Analysis of 35 cases of pathology in yin deficiency syndrome]	Thirty-five cases of the pattern of Yin deficiency were studied including 18 cases of Liver and Kidney Yin deficiency, 2 cases of Lung and Kidney Yin deficiency, 15 cases of heat invasion into Ying and Blood with deficiency both in Qi and Yin. These cases displayed the following characteristics: (1) Course of the disease was insidious, protracted and prone to frequent exacerbations. (2) Clinical manifestations resulted mostly from functional impairment or metabolic derangements in vital organs/tissues, thus manifesting pleomorphism and complexity. Pathologic changes could be seen in almost all organs and tissues, being mostly marked in the liver, adrenals, testes, gastrointestinal tract, lungs and heart. The liver showed chronic active inflammatory changes or subacute necrosis. The adrenal cortex was overtly atrophic, involving all zones. Cell cytoplasm was scant and red stained with loss of lipid vesicles. The testis was also markedly atrophic. There was interstitial edema with scattering of convoluted seminiferous tubules. There was mild hyperplasia of the basement membrane. The germinal cell layer was thin and spermatogenesis decreased. Gastrointestinal mucosa was thin generally and submucosal edema was evident. Infiltrating inflammatory cells were predominantly lymphocytes. (3) These changes could be categorized as blood stasis, chronic inflammation, necrosis and atrophy that signify degeneration with impairment or loss of function. As a whole, Yin deficiency syndrome is merely a nonspecific term that covers a conglomeration of sundry chronic disease state.
Bronchial adenocarcinoma in tuberculosis scars]	The relation between bronchial cancer and fibrous scars still remains controversial. We report, with regard to a typical case, the histological arguments for this hypothesis in the knowledge that only a clinical history and above all a radiographic progress will evoke the carcinomatous transformation. We report on the diagnostic peculiarities, the evolution, the therapeutic approach and histogenetics of bronchial cancers developing on a scar. This association and the interest of pursuing these investigations in the presence of evocative clinical or radiographic anomalies enable a better understanding of the natural history of bronchial cancer.
Mechanisms of lung tissue restructuration. A structural analysis of experimental and human materials.	Lung tissue restructuration is one of the most important components of chronic pneumopathies. Comparison of experimental and human data regarding the dynamic evolution of variously induced chronic lung processes pointed out as main mechanisms the bronchial and bronchiolar obstructions, the viral and fungal pneumonitic processes, the parenchymatous suppurative processes, the granulomatous organization of cellular reactions, the interlobular cell accumulations, the hypersensitivity reactions, and the lesions of small vessels. Mostly acting in association, these dynamic conditions determine the fibroplastic transformation of lesions, the exclusion of unventilated areas, the destruction of respiratory surfaces, the clear predominance of connective tissue structures, sometimes with ossifications; some microcavities persist within restructuring areas, sometimes delimited by alveolar or bronchiolar epithelia. The honeycomb lung is one of the evolutive possibilities of this restructuration of damaged tissues during chronic lung diseases.
Artificial pneumothorax in the surgical treatment of progressing bilateral destructive lung tuberculosis]	23 patients with fibrous-cavernous pulmonary tuberculosis received surgical treatment at the Novosibirsk Research Tuberculosis Treatment Institute. In the contralateral lung all the patients had recent infiltrative lesions with destruction. M. tuberculosis were determined in all the cases. The patients underwent resection of the lung, osteoplastic thoracoplasty, osteoplastic thoracoplasty followed by pulmonary resection, open treatment of the caverns (10, 5, 2, 6 cases, respectively). Therapeutic pneumothorax eliminated destruction in the contralater lung in 18 patients. The other 5 patients achieved stabilization of the specific process in remaining destruction for which they subsequently underwent segmental resection. The cure was documented in all the patients treated.
One stage bilateral pulmonary resections through unilateral intercostal--mediastinal approach in patients with tuberculosis]	The paper summarizes the results obtained by the authors as a result of one-stage bilateral resection of the lungs via unilateral intercostal-mediastenal approach developed by the authors. The technique and indications are detailed. The positive outcomes favor introduction of this procedure for surgical treatment of bilateral respiratory tuberculosis.
Computed tomography in the diagnosis of infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis]	Computer-aided tomography (CAT) was carried out in 67 patients with infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis. Both standard and high-resolution CAT were used to assess the lung status. The data were correlated to x-ray findings. Advantages of high-resolution CAT in the detection of destruction cavities, foci and interstitial changes were shown. CAT helps differentiate between the changes in the tuberculous infiltrate due to pulmonary tissue caseous necrosis and the perifocal reactions presenting as local edema and serous inflammation. CAT is the most effective in the differential diagnosis of pulmonary infiltration of unknown origin, in specification of the tuberculous process phase, in assessment of the type of residual changes, and in planning of surgery.
Tuberculosis in Hodgkin's disease in a child]	During its evolution, Hodgkin disease is accompanied by changes in the cell immunity, mainly of delayed type. Tuberculosis can precede Hodgkin disease or complicate its evolution during a simultaneous development of both diseases, or the lymph node tuberculosis can hurry hemopathy onset. Tb lesions in such patients can have atypical features.
Roentgeno-anatomical correlations in infiltrative pulmonary tuberculosis based on resection materials]	The material of 97 pulmonary resections for large caseous focuses of tuberculosis was compared to relevant x-ray and morphological evidence. Roentgenologically, caseous-necrotic foci may be stable for a long time (6-12 months) in spite of the absence of the fibrous capsule. In view of these findings, x-ray potentialities in the diagnosis of the process form and phase are considered.
Evaluation of the severity of tuberculous process in mouse lung]	A method for quantitative evaluation of lung affection degree in experimental tuberculosis mice has been elaborated according to the findings of macroscopic study. Consideration is given not only to the productive changes in the lungs, but also to the manifestation degree of exudative reactions. The proposed criteria are presented in a formalized pattern that is suitable for any mathematical treatment.
Experimental model of combined pathology of tuberculosis-opisthorchiasis]	An experimental model of tuberculosis-opisthorchiasis pathology was developed. The results of two experimental series with the use of this model showed that in cases with mixed pathology the specific process is aggravated irrespective of whether the infectious process develops in opisthorchiasis or the latter occurs in attendance to tuberculosis. Delayed hypersensitivity in such cases is suppressed markedly in the absence of its initial activation.
Anatomopathology of pulmonary granulomatoses]	Pulmonary granulomatosis are lung diseases due to inflammatory lesions with characteristic histiocyte reactions seen in granulomas often composed of epithelioid and giant cell formations. There are a number of pathological entities depending upon whether the aetiology is infectious or immunologic. The pathologist is asked to determine the type of reaction and to identify the greatest number of elements possible for the aetiologic diagnosis.
Ultrastructural and radioautographic study of bronchoalveolar lavage cells in pulmonary tuberculosis in endobronchial laser therapy]	Seventy specimens of bronchoalveolar lavage were obtained from 30 patients with pulmonary tuberculosis during treatment with endobronchial laser. The lavage is shown to undergo marked qualitative and quantitative changes in response to He-Ne laser treatment: the proportion of macrophages goes up while that of neutrophils tends to a decrease. The laser is capable to induce metabolic and proliferative activity of alveolar macrophages indicated by RNA and DNA synthesis. Morphological alterations in the cells of the respiratory compartment suggest weakening of exudative-necrotic component of the inflammation as an underlying cause of laser efficacy.
Pathomorphosis of tuberculosis in children of early and preschool age (autopsy data)]	A total of 339 protocols of autopsies of babies infants, and pre-school children within 50 year (1947-1996) are analyzed. As compared with 1947-1956, in the past 3 decades the autopsies showed 14.6-, 35.7-, and 79.7-fold reductions in babies, infants, and preschool children, respectively. However, the past 5 years is marked by a reversal of more severe tuberculosis in children under 3 years, which necessitates to intensify social, prophylactic, and therapeutical antituberculosis measures among children.
