Molecular and histopathologic evidence for systemic infection by Mycobacterium bovis in a patient with tuberculous enteritis, peritonitis, and meningitis: a case report.	Mycobacterium bovis infection has been reported in several patients with AIDS in other countries. The prevalence of tuberculosis in Taiwan is higher than the World Health Organization standard. However, reports of M. bovis infection are rare. A 47-year-old male had the habit of drinking uncooked fresh deer's blood and unpasteurized deer's milk. He suffered from acute abdominal pain and underwent emergency laparotomy. Pathology demonstrated tuberculosis enteritis with colon perforation. The molecular diagnosis by nested polymerase chain reaction assay and single-strand conformation polymorphism assay showed M. bovis infection in the small intestine, mesenteric lymph nodes, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Our results suggest that the most likely portal of entry of M. bovis is the gastrointestinal rather than the respiratory tract. Ingested M. bovis from unpasteurized deer's milk probably entered the mucosal macrophages of the intestine and then the draining mesenteric lymph nodes. As immunity declined, bacilli from the mesenteric lymph nodes disseminated to other organs and into the CSF.
Low-dose Mycobacterium bovis infection in cattle results in pathology indistinguishable from that of high-dose infection.	To understand the relevance of aerogenic transmission for bovine tuberculosis, it is important to study cattle experimentally infected with low doses of Mycobacterium bovis that result in pathology of the lower respiratory tract resembling that of most naturally infected cattle. In this study, we have compared and contrasted granuloma distribution and formation from cattle infected with low doses (1-1000 colony-forming units (cfu)) of M. bovis over 24 weeks. We also studied the expression of the cytokine IFN-gamma in lymph nodes by immunohistochemistry (IHC) as well as by ELISA from in vitro-stimulated peripheral blood cells. Our results confirmed that 50% of cattle infected with only 1cfu of field strain (AF2122/97) M. bovis developed advanced granulomas in thoracic lymph nodes. The degree of lesion advancement and granuloma distribution was similar between the lowest dose group (1cfu) and the highest of the 4 groups (1000cfu). The number of acid-fast bacilli identified within the granulomas was also similar among all groups. IFN-gamma expression was not significantly correlated with the infective dosage in either granuloma IHC or ante-mortem ELISA. These studies confirm that within the same time period, the smallest possible infective dose, properly administered, can produce pathology indistinguishable from a dose 1000-fold greater.
Mycobacterium bovis shedding patterns from experimentally infected calves and the effect of concurrent infection with bovine viral diarrhoea virus.	Concurrent infection of cattle with bovine viral diarrhoea virus (BVDV) and Mycobacterium bovis is considered to be a possible risk factor for onward transmission of bovine tuberculosis (BTB) in infected cattle and is known to compromise diagnostic tests. A comparison is made here of M. bovis shedding (i.e. release) characteristics from 12 calves, six experimentally co-infected with BVDV and six infected with M. bovis alone, using simple models of bacterial replication. These statistical and mathematical models account for the intermittent or episodic nature of shedding, the dynamics of within-host bacterial proliferation and the sampling distribution from a given shedding episode. We show that while there are distinct differences among the shedding patterns of calves given the same infecting dose, there is no statistically significant difference between the two groups of calves. Such differences as there are, can be explained solely in terms of the shedding frequency, but with all calves potentially excreting the same amount of bacteria in a given shedding episode post-infection. The model can be thought of as a process of the bacteria becoming established in a number of discrete foci of colonization, rather than as a more generalized infection of the respiratory tract. In this case, the variability in the shedding patterns of the infected calves can be explained solely by differences in the number of foci established and shedding being from individual foci over time. Should maximum exposure on a particular occasion be a critical consideration for cattle-to-cattle transmission of BTB, cattle that shed only intermittently may still make an important contribution to the spread and persistence of the disease.
