Adherence and biofilm formation of Staphylococcus epidermidis and Mycobacterium tuberculosis on various spinal implants.	Bacterial adherence and biofilm formation in implant-associated infection may vary depending on species of microorganisms and characteristics of implant surfaces.
Sequencing-based detection of drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in patients with spinal tuberculosis.	Traditionally, bacterial cultures serve as the gold standard for the detection of drug resistance and can provide evidence for directing the treatment of tuberculosis. However, this method has a low positive rate and is time consuming, which significantly limits its wide application. Thus, in the present study, the genes associated with drug resistance were amplified and sequenced to determine the presence of drug-resistant mutations in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. In addition, to find a more sensitive, specific, rapid, and simple method for the detection of drug-resistant bacteria, this method was compared with traditional bacterial culture.
Osteoarticular Mycobacterium xenopi infection]	Mycobacterium xenopi is a potential pathogen for man and can cause bone and joint infections, particularly spondylodiscitis. Most cases of infection occur in fragilized patients and are found more and more often in AIDS patients.
Surgical treatment of tuberculous spondylitis using ceramic implants]	The use of osseous grafts in the treatment of tuberculous spondylitis is associated with substantial shortcomings, requiring a long-term bedside regimen, followed by fixation of the spine with a rigid corset. The application of ceramic implants allowed one to attack several tasks: to provide primary stabilization of the vertebral segment, to exclude corset fixation, to reduce a postoperative period and surgical traumatism by refusing to take an autograft. Forty nine operations were performed in patients aged 23-65 years. In the early postoperative period neurological disorders completely disappeared in 7 patients, the remaining has significant positive changes. Complete osteoceramic adhesion occurred 2-4 months later. Following 2 patients, 26 patients were stricken off the disability register. The remaining patients continued to be disabled (7 and 16 patients had disability groups 2 and 3, respectively) due to significant contaminant diseases.
