Aseptic cerebral venous thrombosis and multiple cerebral tuberculomas associated with pulmonary miliary tuberculosis]	Severe pulmonary tuberculosis may be complicated by deep vein thrombosis due to a state of hypercoagulability.
Laboratory features for presumptive diagnosis of disseminated tuberculosis in HIV-infected patients.	Rapid diagnosis is crucial for adequate treatment of disseminated mycobacteriosis. We conducted a retrospective cohort study to identify clinical and laboratorial features of disseminated mycobacteriosis in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected patients that could help to differentiate tuberculosis (TB) from non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) disease. All patients diagnosed from 1996 to 2006 were reviewed. TB was diagnosed in 65 patients and NTM in 31. Patients with TB had higher median levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) (69.0 vs. 45.0, P = 0.02) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) (725.0 vs. 569.0, P = 0.03). AST and LDH may be valuable tools in differentiating disseminated TB from NTM in HIV-infected patients.
Apitherapy in the combined treatment of patients with pulmonary tuberculosis taking into account the hypophyseal-adrenal system indices]	Apitherapy (Venom of bees and apiculture products) was included into combined treatment of 93 in-patients with pulmonary tuberculosis. Apitherapy had a beneficial effect on the organism of tuberculosis patients, manifested by enhancement of the treatment effectiveness and normalization of indices of endocrine system. It is recommended that the instruction on apitoxinotherapy be amended, in particular, by substantially supplementing the paragraph with indications and contraindications for giving it in active tuberculosis.
The clinico-pathogenetic role of the eicosanoid system in pulmonary tuberculosis]	Contents of leukotrienes B4, C4, C4/D4/E4, prostaglandins E and F2a, thromboxane B2 and 6-keto-PgF1a were studied by radioimmunoassay in patients with fresh and chronic pulmonary tuberculosis. Eicosanoids were established to take an active part in pathogenetical mechanisms of tuberculous process. Local forms of the disease were characterized by moderately risen level both of leukotrienes and prostaglandins. Freshly detected disseminated destructive process was accompanied by increased activity mainly of LtC4, LtC4/D4/E4 as well as of prostacyclin-thromboxane system and PgF2a. Advance of pulmonary tuberculosis was associated with activated LtB4 and TxB2 synthesis and decreased production of PgI2, PgE, LtC4, LtC4/D4/E4.
