World War II military led the way in screening chest radiography.	World War I recruits were screened for tuberculosis almost exclusively with a history and physical exam. Radiography was unavailable on a large scale and expensive. New techniques developed in Brazil and elsewhere in the 1930s made mass radiographic screening practical. During World War II, the U.S. Army and Navy took advantage of this new technology to screen an estimated 10 million personnel. This ambitious and successful case-finding program inspired, in part, continuing radiographic screening efforts among the civilian population following the war, including mass screening of asymptomatic individuals and routine hospital admission chest films.
'Long grief, dark melancholy, hopeless natural love': Clarissa, Cheyne and narratives of body and soul.	The paper deals with Clarissa's wasting combination of love and religious melancholy, and the way in which ailments of the mind have an immediate effect on the body in this period. George Cheyne's theories of melancholy and hypochondria explain at least some of the mechanisms by which the eighteenth century understood this phenomenon. 'Clarissa' is an important text because it influenced so many later representations of melancholy, especially as it is gendered feminine in Richardson's newly feminised discourse of sensibility.
Differential tuberculin test for mycobacterial infection in children.	A composite antigen prepared from strains of M. avium, M. intracellulare and M. scrofulaceum has been used in addition to PPD in differential skin tests, principally on children investigated for mycobacterial cervical adenitis. The tests were uniformly successful in 12 cases bacteriologically positive for opportunist mycobacteria and gave unequivocal positive or negative results in 30 cases awaiting diagnosis.
Tuberculous pneumonia, complicated by tuberculosis of the middle ear]	The authors report on a rare localization of tuberculosis in a young foreigner. Tuberculous otitis media developed secondarily via Eustachian tube in far advanced pulmonary tuberculosis. Anti-tuberculous chemotherapy resulted in recovery. Even in the present favourable epidemiological situation of tuberculosis the possibility of tuberculous otitis media should be considered in patients under care because of advanced tuberculosis of different localization.
Tuberculous chancre in the partner of an intravenous drug abuser.	We report a 26-year-old housemaid whose partner was an intravenous drug abuser with undiagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis. The patient presented with a painless chin ulcer with an elevated irregular border and a firm, nontender submandibular adenopathy. The lesion had been present for 2 months and did not respond to antibiotic therapy. The tuberculin test was positive, and a biopsy and Löwenstein culture confirmed the diagnosis of cutaneous chancre. The patient was treated with rifampicin, isoniazid and pyrazinamide and, after 6 months of treatment, she developed scrofuloderma which had to be surgically removed. After 1 year of follow-up, the lesions had totally cleared.
