Evaluation of young children in household contact with adult multidrug-resistant pulmonary tuberculosis cases.	The prevention and management of multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis has received much attention, but little attention has been given to children with MDR tuberculosis or children in contact with adults with MDR tuberculosis. The aim of this study was to determine the prevalence of tuberculous infection and disease in childhood contacts of adults with MDR pulmonary tuberculosis.
Incidence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in urban and rural India and implications for prevention.	We compared the incidence of multidrug resistance in 150 consecutive Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates obtained from a rural center (in Sakawar, India) and an urban tertiary care center (in Mumbai, India). The study highlights an alarmingly high percentage of multidrug-resistant M. tuberculosis isolates in Mumbai (51%) as compared with that at the rural center (2%).
Study on molecular epidemiology of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in Chinese army with PCR amplified fingerprinting methods]	Typing of Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains and epidemiological studies in the army of southern China to provide scientific basis for prevention of pulmonary tuberculosis.
Identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and rifampin-resistant strains by gene-chips]	To evaluate the gene-chip detecting rifaman-resistance Mycobacterium tuberculosis applied in TB diagnosis and drug-resistant detection.
Outbreak of isoniazid resistant tuberculosis in north London.	A description is given of a major outbreak of isoniazid monoresistant tuberculosis (TB) chiefly in north London, including prisons. The earliest case was diagnosed in 1995 with most cases appearing after 1999.
Tuberculosis in immigrants: clinical and epidemiological differences as compared to the native population (1999-2002)]	Tuberculosis in immigrants is an emerging disease in industrialized countries.
Utility of mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit typing for differentiating multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates of the Beijing family.	Mycobacterial interspersed repetitive unit (MIRU) typing has been found to allow rapid, reliable, high-throughput genotyping of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and may represent a feasible approach to study global M. tuberculosis molecular epidemiology. To evaluate the use of MIRU typing in discriminating drug-resistant M. tuberculosis strains of the Beijing genotype family, 102 multidrug-resistant (MDR) clinical isolates and 253 randomly selected non-MDR isolates collected from 2000 to 2003 in Hong Kong were subjected to 12-locus MIRU typing, spoligotyping, and IS6110 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) typing. Spoligotyping showed that 243 (68.5%) of 355 isolates belonged to Beijing family genotype. MIRU typing showed lower discrimination in differentiating between the Beijing family strains (Hunter-Gaston discriminative index [HGI] of 0.8827) compared with the IS6110 RFLP method (HGI = 0.9979). For non-Beijing strains, MIRU typing provided discrimination (HGI = 0.9929) comparable to that of the RFLP method (HGI = 0.9961). There was no remarkable difference in discrimination power between the two methods in differentiating both within and between MDR and non-MDR strains of M. tuberculosis. Dendrograms constructed with the MIRU typing data showed a clear segregation between the Beijing and non-Beijing genotype. Addition of RFLP to MIRU typing offered a higher discrimination ability (92.6%) than did addition of MIRU typing to RFLP (40.0%). This supported the potential use of this method to analyze the global genetic diversity of MDR M. tuberculosis strains that may be at different levels of evolutionary divergence.
High prevalence of drug-resistant tuberculosis, Republic of Lithuania, 2002.	Nations of the former Soviet Union have the world's highest reported levels of resistance to anti-tuberculosis drugs. We conducted the first national survey of anti-tuberculosis drug resistance in the Republic of Lithuania.
Prison health in Russia: the larger picture.	Russia, despite recent legal reforms, still has one of the highest rates of imprisonment in the world. There are many reports of the adverse conditions in Russian prisons, often highlighting the consequences for health, in particular, risks of HIV, tuberculosis, and other infectious diseases. However, there are no reviews of the broader health issues in the Russian penal system. This paper reviews the available information on the health of the imprisoned population in Russia and the factors underlying it. It was undertaken by means of a search of Russian and international literature, including unpublished sources, supplemented by in-depth interviews with 27 key informants from the Ministry of Justice, prison administration, and non-governmental organizations. Published and unpublished data from the ministries of health and justice were used to describe the demographic characteristics of the imprisoned population and compare it with the general population. Although convicts are drawn disproportionately from disadvantaged groups in society and are detained in adverse physical conditions, the standardized mortality ratio from all causes is slightly over one-third of that in the overall Russian male population. This is mainly explained by an eight-fold lower mortality from external causes and a more than two-fold lower mortality from cardiovascular disease. These far outweigh the increased mortality from infectious diseases. The chances of survival of young men in Russia may actually be improved by being in prison, highlighting the need for policies that reduce the overall level of violence and other external risks, such as dangerous driving habits, in Russian society. Yet while conditions are improving in Russian prisons, with death rates falling, there are still many avoidable deaths and high levels of mental illness and infectious disease. There is also much that is not known about the health of Russian convicts, with what is available reflecting what is measured rather than what is important.
Factors associated with treatment outcomes in pulmonary tuberculosis in northeastern Thailand.	Tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS are both prevalent in Southeast Asia and Thailand. Factors related to treatment outcomes in smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis were evaluated in 226 adult Thai patients. Of these, 31% had a cure or a completion of therapy, 7% had treatment failure or death, and 31% had treatment interruption. The prevalence of co-morbid diseases was 52%, including 19% with HIV. Sputum cultures for Mycobacteria were carried out in 86 cases (38%), 36 of these (42%) were culture positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The rate of drug resistance was 14% (5/36) of culture proven tuberculosis and the mortality rate was 4.6% (7/153) of patients with known outcomes. Of the 7 fatalities, 3 were HIV positive and 1 had multi-drug resistant tuberculosis. Factors that were significantly associated with treatment failure/death were old age (OR 44.1; 95% Cl 2.0-983.7), HIV co-infection (OR 27.5; 95% Cl 1.3-560.0), and previously treated tuberculosis (OR 9.7; 95% Cl 1.6-59.1). These high rates of drug resistance and treatment failure in this area suggest that initial sputum cultures and drug susceptibility testing for Mycobacteria should be performed in all patients who have been previously exposed to anti-tuberculous drugs, and HIV testing should be performed on all patients with tuberculosis.
Extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis--United States, 1993-2006.	The worldwide emergence of extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR TB) and a provisional definition for this form of TB were first reported in November 2005. A more detailed description of these findings and preliminary data from the U.S. National TB Surveillance System (NTSS) were published in 2006. The U.S. data indicated that 74 TB cases reported during 1993-2004 met the case definition for XDR TB. Subsequent reports suggested different definitions for XDR TB. In October 2006, the World Health Organization convened an Emergency Global Task Force on XDR TB, which revised the case definition to specify resistance to at least isoniazid and rifampin among first-line anti-TB drugs, resistance to any fluoroquinolone, and resistance to at least one second-line injectable drug (amikacin, capreomycin, or kanamycin). This report updates the 2006 report on XDR TB in the United States, using the revised case definition and provisional data for 2006. NTSS data were analyzed for reported XDR-TB cases during 1993-2006; a total of 49 cases (3% of evaluable multidrug-resistant [MDR] TB cases) met the revised case definition for XDR TB. Of these, 17 (35%) were reported during 2000-2006. Compared with 1993-1999, cases from 2000-2006 were more likely to be in persons who were foreign born and less likely to be in persons with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. XDR TB presents a global threat and a challenge to TB-control activities in the United States. To prevent the spread of XDR TB, renewed vigilance is needed through drug-susceptibility testing, case reporting, specialized care, infection control, and expanded capacity for outbreak detection and response.
Trend of anti-tuberculosis drug resistance in Korea, 1994-2004.	The 245 health centres through which the National Tuberculosis Programme (NTP) is implemented in Korea and the TB Laboratory Network of the Korean National Tuberculosis Association.
HIV testing and disclosure: a qualitative analysis of TB patients in South Africa.	In South Africa, more than 60% of TB patients have HIV co-infection. Voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) is critical to effective HIV prevention, and TB facilities are optimal venues for delivery of these services. This study employed qualitative research methods to explore the decision-making processes for HIV testing and serostatus disclosure by 21 patients hospitalized with multi/extensively-drug resistant TB (M/XDR-TB) in Durban, KwaZulu Natal. Data collected from in-depth interviews characterized 3 broad themes: HIV testing history, experiences and perceptions of stigma and disclosure, and the relationship between TB and HIV/AIDS. Fear of AIDS-related stigma, the singular stress of TB infection, the absence of partner's consent, asymptomatic or incurable disease, and uncertainty about subsequent eligibility for antiretroviral treatment while still receiving TB treatment were identified as potential barriers to the uptake of VCT. HIV serostatus disclosure was impeded by the felt stigma of a 'discreditable' infection, manifested by social rejection and discrimination. The public disclosure of TB illness helped relieve some co-infected patients' overall burden of stigma through a process of 'covering'. HIV prevention [corrected] measures such as VCTare likely to be more effective within TB facilities if greater sensitivity is paid to TB patients' specific social issues and perceptions. These patients are not only at greater risk for HIV co-infection but also for experiencing the double stigma of TB and HIV/AIDS.
Trends of drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis in a tertiary tuberculosis center in Iran.	To determine the drug resistance pattern to first line antituberculous drugs in National Research Institute of Tuberculosis and Lung Disease and to compare resistant rates with previous studies.
Tuberculosis: a study of 111 cases in an area of high prevalence in the extreme south of Brazil.	Tuberculosis is an increasingly important public health problem in developing countries. We studied 111 tuberculosis patients confirmed by mycobacteria isolation between 1998 and 2000 in Rio Grande, in south Brazil. One-hundred-thirteen pulmonary and extrapulmonary clinical materials were examined through culture by the Ogawa-Kudoh method and through smear examination by the Ziehl-Nielsen or Kinyoun methods. The identification of Mycobacterium tuberculosis was done through the usual phenotypical methods. The proportion method (indirect technique) was used to determine the resistance of isolates. The man/woman ratio was 2.6:1, 75% were white, and the group had a mean age of 39.7+/-12.7. Risk factors were present in 38.7% (34 men and 9 women, p=0.2), with a mean age of 35 (p=0.002); infection by HIV was the most frequent (28.8%), followed by alcoholism (16.2%) and injected drug use (15.3%). The frequency of M. tuberculosis isolates was 99.1%. Pulmonary disease occurred in 88.3% of the cases, extrapulmonary in 9.9% and 1.8% in both. There was an association between extrapulmonary tuberculosis and the presence of risk factors (p=0.0001). Resistance to isoniazid was found in 4% of the isolates and to isoniazid and rifampin in 2%, all being patients with some risk factors. The profile of tuberculosis in the population of this study followed the pattern described for developing regions of the world.
High rate of transmission among contacts in large London outbreak of isoniazid mono-resistant tuberculosis.	For a continuing London outbreak of isoniazid mono-resistant tuberculosis (TB), we aimed to determine transmission rates and risk factors for contacts of early cases, in order to inform future guidance on contact tracing.
Epidemiology of tuberculosis in French Brittany: cases notified between 2000 and 2007]	The authors studied the reported cases of tuberculosis diseases in Brittany between 2000 and 2007 via the mandatory notification scheme. One thousand nine hundred and seventy-five cases were notified during the study period. The incidence in French Brittany (eight cases per 100,000) was the third highest in France. A statistically significant negative trend was observed later, mainly attributable to a decrease between 2000 and 2001. The mean patient age at notification was 55 in Brittany versus 46 years of age for the rest of France (p<0.001). Eighty per cent of the patients were born in France versus 46% for the rest of the country. The rate of multiresistance to antibiotics was 1.3% versus 4.6% for the rest of France (p<0.001). The estimated completeness of notification was 80% compared to 70% for the whole country. Despite a decrease of tuberculosis incidence in Brittany, the withdrawal of mandatory vaccination suggests strengthening tuberculosis monitoring in the future.
Application of genotype MTBDRplus in rapid detection of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex as well as its resistance to isoniazid and rifampin in a high volume laboratory in Southern China.	The alarmingly worsening epidemics of drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) call urgent need for a simple method for the rapid detection of drug-resistant TB in clinical settings. In an attempt to establish a rapid procedure for laboratory diagnosis of TB and investigate the local TB epidemiology, molecular line probe assay of the Genotype MTBDRplus was used to identify Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex (MTBC) and detect mutations conferring resistance to two most active first-line drugs against TB: Rifampin and Isoniazid. 96 acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear- positive sputums and 18 PCR-positive non-sputum specimens have been determined for the MTBC and resistance to Rifampin and Isoniazid. The MTBC detection rates in two sources of specimens were 93.8% (90/96) and 77.8% (14/18) respectively. The overall drug resistance (Rifampin or Isoniazid) occurred in 34.6% (36/104). Resistance to rifampin (RMP) was 28.8% (30/104) and 25% (26/104) was to Isoniazid (INH), in which high level drug resistance accounted for 88.5% (23/26) and low level drug resistance accounted for 7.7% (2/26). Multidrug resistance (MDR), defined as resistant to both RMP and INH, was found in 19.2% (20/104) of clinical samples, which was double that of official statistics. In addition, 63.3% (19/30) RMP-resistant mutations were identified in the region of RopB 530-533 and 57.9% (11/19) were the S531L mutation. 84.6% (22/26) of resistance to INH was mediated by Kat S315T1 mutations which conferred the high-level resistance to INH. The Genotype MTBDRplus line probe assay is a suitable and applicable method for establishing the rapidness in detection of drug-resistant TB in clinical laboratory. It will be a valuable addition to the conventional TB diagnostic approaches.
Fluoroquinolone resistance among Mycobacterium tuberculosis strains from Karachi, Pakistan: data from community-based field clinics.	A fluoroquinolone (FQ) resistance rate of 5.9% is reported in 205 Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from patients presenting to field clinics in Karachi, Pakistan (2006 to 2009). FQ resistance among multidrug-resistant (MDR) strains was 11.1% (5/45), and it was 4.9% (5/103) in M. tuberculosis strains susceptible to all first-line agents. Spoligotyping of resistant strains did not show dominance of one strain type. Our data reflect considerable FQ-resistant M. tuberculosis isolates and the need to consider inclusion of FQ within first-line sensitivity testing in such settings.
Characteristics of Mycobacterium tuberculosis genotype and the relationship between Beijing genotype and drug-resistant phenotypes in Tianjin]	To explore the distribution and characteristics on genotype of Mycobacterium tuberculosis and the relationship between Beijing genotype and drug-resistant phenotypes in Tianjin city.
The cluster and drug-resistant characteristics of Beijing genotype Mycobacterium tuberculosis in eastern rural China]	To investigate the distribution of Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) Beijing genotype, which was isolated from tuberculosis (TB) patients registered in local TB dispensaries in Deqing and Guanyun county respectively within 1 year, as well as its drug-resistant phenotypic and genotypic profiles and genotyping features.
Anti-tuberculosis drug resistance and associated risk factors in a tertiary level TB center in Iran: a retrospective analysis.	This study aimed to determine first-line anti-tuberculosis drug resistance rates in new and previously treated cases and to identify risk factors associated with multidrug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) at the National Reference Tuberculosis Laboratory of Iran.
Risk factors associated with kanamycin-resistant tuberculosis in a Beijing tuberculosis referral hospital.	The rapidly increasing number of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) cases worldwide underlines the necessity for the rational use of key second-line drugs such as kanamycin. In this study, we determined the prevalence of, and risk factors associated with, kanamycin-resistant tuberculosis (TB) in 309 Hospital, Beijing, China, with the aim of providing information for better case management in order to minimize further development of extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB). Drug susceptibility testing results and clinical data were retrospectively analysed for hospitalized TB patients for whom such data were available in 309 Hospital for the period 1997-2009. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to determine the risk factors associated with kanamycin-resistant TB. During 1997-2009, 553 (14.4 %) of 3843 tested Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates from hospitalized TB patients were kanamycin-resistant. The increasing trend of resistance to kanamycin was reversed since 2000. The independent risk factors associated with kanamycin-resistant TB included living in urban areas [adjusted odds ratio (OR) = 1.89], being retreated for repeat cases (adjusted OR = 1.60), being smear-positive for acid-fast bacilli at admission to the hospital (adjusted OR = 1.39), having ofloxacin-resistant (adjusted OR = 1.61) or para-aminosalicylic acid-resistant TB (adjusted OR = 1.47), having MDR-TB (adjusted OR = 5.10), having MDR-TB plus ofloxacin resistance (adjusted OR = 4.27) and having poly-resistant TB (adjusted OR = 3.94). The remaining rate of kanamycin resistance is still high despite the reversal of the increasing trend during the past decade. Surveillance of kanamycin resistance, especially among high-risk populations, should be continued to closely monitor trends so that appropriate action can be taken.
Trends in the epidemiology of childhood tuberculosis in Greece.	A hospital referral center for childhood tuberculosis (TB).
Representations of MDR and XDR-TB in South African newspapers.	The emergence of drug-resistant tuberculosis has brought with it diverse perspectives concerning the way in which the disease should be managed. The media is an important source of these perspectives, as they perform the dual role of reflecting and shaping public discourse. In this study, we are interested in how the media presents multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis (XDR-TB) in South Africa, where both variants are a growing public health concern. We examined newspaper content from 310 South African newspaper articles from February 2004 to July 2009 that discussed MDR-TB and XDR-TB. Newspaper articles were collected from the Dow Jones Factiva database and imported into QDA Miner v3.2.1 for analysis. Using Attride-Stirling's thematic network analysis method, articles were analyzed according to themes, sub-themes, and thematic networks. This analysis identified two main dimensions: causes of MDR/XDR-TB and treatment approaches/solutions. Causes of MDR/XDR-TB revolved around three main global themes: i) patient-centred causes (32.6%); ii) lack of infection control procedures (18.7%); and iii) health systems failures (19.4%). Treatment approaches or solutions to tackling MDR/XDR-TB focused on i) patient targeted solutions (38.4%); ii) improving infection control (12.3%); iii) systems restructuring (10.6%); and iv) new diagnostic and therapeutic options (10%). Our analysis identifies a trend in the South African media to identify a broad range of causes of MDR/XDR-TB, while emphasizing that treatment approaches should be directed primarily at the individual. Of particular importance is the fact that such a perspective runs contrary to the World Health Organization's (WHO) recommendations for approaching the TB epidemic, in particular by insufficiently addressing systemic and social drivers of the epidemic. Due to the media's potential influence on policy formation, how the media presents issues - especially issues pertaining to emerging public health concerns - should warrant more attention.
TB and HIV: deadly liaison or manageable threat?	Researchers create a dynamic model that could resolve conflicting findings on the effects of HIV infection on drug-resistant tuberculosis.
In vitro activity of linezolid against clinical isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, including multidrug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant strains from Beijing, China.	The in vitro activity of linezolid was evaluated against 84 clinical isolates of  Mycobacterium tuberculosis, including multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant  (XDR) strains, isolated from the center for tuberculosis research and treatment of the Chinese  army. Linezolid showed excellent activity, with minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of  0.125-0.5 μg/mL against all tested isolates. There were no differences in the MIC(50) and MIC(90)  of linezolid between susceptible, isoniazid-resistant, MDR, and XDR. Indeed, all of the groups  displayed identical MIC(90) values of 0.25 μg/mL, which is lower than previously reported in  similar studies. We conclude that linezolid may be a more effective drug against M. tuberculosis  and may play an important role in treating drug-resistant tuberculosis in China.
Lack of evidence to support policy development for management of contacts of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients: two systematic reviews.	Existing international guidelines provide different recommendations for the management of contacts of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) patients.
Recent transmission of W-Beijing family Mycobacterium tuberculosis in rural eastern China.	To understand the degree of recent transmission of tuberculosis (TB) and determine the risk factors associated with recent transmission stratified by W-Beijing genotype in rural China.
Molecular epidemiology of tuberculosis in rural Matlab, Bangladesh.	To characterise and classify clinical isolates collected from tuberculosis (TB) patients in rural Bangladesh and to investigate the mode of transmission.
The background of drug-resistant tuberculosis patients on the basis of the annual report database for 2007-2009 in Japan]	In this study, the background of drug-resistant tuberculosis (TB) patients in Japan was analyzed using the annual report database for 2007-2009. The results of the drug susceptibility test of 15,425 patients who were diagnosed with pulmonary TB between 2007 and 2009 were obtained and analyzed. The chi-square test for independence between susceptibility test results and parameters (i.e., sex, age, nationality, etc.) was conducted. Logistic regression analysis was performed using the variables (20s, 30s, 40s ..., new treatment, retreatment, etc.) of parameters that were statistically significant by chi-square test. The risk of multi-drug resistance (MDR) among TB patients who underwent retreatment was significantly high (odds ratio = 11.3, 95% CI: 7.7-16.6, p < 0.001, reference = new treatment), and the risk of MDR among foreigners who had entered Japan within the last 5 years was also high (odds ratio = 9.5, 95% CI: 4.6-19.4, p < 0.001, reference = Japanese). Moreover, logistic regression analysis was performed for TB patients who had previously undergone treatment. The risk of MDR was higher among the patients treated after 1970 than those treated before 1970. Especially, the risk of MDR among the patients previously treated in 1990-1999 was extremely high (odds ratio = 20.8, 95% CI: 5.7-75.0, p < 0.001, reference = before 1970). The risk of MDR among previously treated foreigners who had entered Japan within the last 5 years was also high (odds ratio = 3.8, 95% CI: 1.1-13.2, p = 0.036). Similar to the results for MDR, the risk of resistance to one or more drugs was significantly high among TB patients who underwent retreatment for TB (odds ratio = 2.2, 95% CI: 1.9-2.6, p < 0.001) and foreigners who had entered Japan within the last 5 years (odds ratio = 1.8, 95% CI: 1.3-2.5, p < 0.001); however, their risk of resistance to one or more drugs was lower than that for MDR. In addition, the odds ratios of age groups younger than 80 years to those over 80 years were obtained. They were 2.1 (95% CI: 1.5-2.9) in 0-29 years, 2.2 (95% CI: 1.6-3.0) in 30-39 years, 2.2 (95% CI: 1.7-3.0) in 40-49 years, 2.1 (95% CI: 1.6-2.8) in 50-59 years, 1.9 (95% CI: 1.4-2.5) in 60-69 years, and 1.5 (95% CI: 1.2-1.8) in 70-79 years. With respect to the background of high MDR among TB patients who underwent retreatment and foreigners who have recently entered Japan, the usage of RFP and poor adherence to drugs and entry from high-prevalence countries with high MDR risk were suspected. Regarding the background of generational differences in resistance to one or more drugs, it was suspected that most people over 80 years of age had been infected with TB bacilli in the distant past, before anti-TB drugs were available, when drug-resistant bacilli had not yet emerged. However, the younger generations have become more susceptible to drug-resistant TB bacilli because anti-TB drugs were being widely used when they were born, and drug-resistant bacilli were prevalent in the world.
Current status of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in Japan: a literature review and meta-analysis]	A literature review and meta-analysis of the incidence, clinical characteristics, and treatment outcomes associated with multidrug-resistant (MDR) tuberculosis (TB) in Japan was performed. An estimated 110-120 new cases of MDR-TB occur every year, constituting 0.7-0.8% of all cases starting TB chemotherapy in Japan. The frequency of MDR is higher in previously treated TB patients than in primary treatment patients; it is also higher among younger patients. Treatment outcomes are poor; the cure rate as conventionally defined is 50-60%. These primary characteristics of MDR-TB in Japan are similar to those reported abroad, although it appears that the Japanese MDR strains are more resistant, such as having a high frequency of extremely drug-resistant (XDR) strains, and a higher frequency of resistance to fluoroquinolones. However, we should remember that variations among institutions and the different methodologies used in reported studies are too numerous to allow any rigorous conclusions to be drawn. This will be a major challenge to the promotion of clinical studies and the control of MDR-TB in Japan.
Tuberculosis in Tuscany: epidemiology and drug resistance]	The aim of this study, conducted in collaboration with the Regional Mycobacteriology Centre at "Careggi" Hospital in Florence, was to describe the epidemiology of tuberculosis (TB) in Tuscany in the years 2007 to 2009. Epidemiological data and mycobacteriology results related to all subjects with confirmed TB in the three years considered were evaluated.Two hundred eighty-five patients were evaluated for the year 2007, 289 for 2008 and 240 for 2009 (data for three provinces are missing for 2009). A large percentage of patients were foreign-born (51.9% in 2007, 56.4% in 2008 and 66.3% in 2009) with the most frequent geographical areas of origin being Africa, Eastern Europe and Asian countries. Overall, the largest number of cases was reported in the cities of Florence and Prato. Among Italian-born patients, the disease was most frequent among patients above 75 years of age while the most frequently affected age group among foreign-born patients was 25-34 years.
Assessment of tuberculosis burden in China using a dynamic disease simulation model.	Although a preventable and treatable disease, tuberculosis (TB) is among the top 10 causes of death worldwide. A consequence of inadequately treated drug-susceptible TB (DS-TB) is multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB).
Strengthened tuberculosis control programme and trend of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis rate in Osaka City, Japan.	Osaka City has the highest tuberculosis (TB) notification rates in Japan. In the period 1999-2003, the TB control programme was strengthened, and the Stop TB Strategy was implemented to reduce the number of notified cases. The objective of this study was to assess the effect of these control activities in Osaka City, including the implementation of directly observed treatment (DOT), by analysing TB surveillance and routinely collected data. We reviewed the surveillance data of all sputum smear-positive pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) cases registered in the Osaka City Public Health Office from 2001 to 2008 and data collected from the routine TB programme. The DOT implementation rate increased from 0% in 2001 to 68% in 2008 for smear-positive PTB cases of the general public and to 61% for all PTB cases of the homeless. The proportion of smear-positive PTB cases that had treatment failure and default combined, declined from 8.0% (52 of 650) in 2001 to 3.6% (20 of 548) in 2006. The proportion of cases among the homeless with previous treatment declined from 28% in 2001 to 15% in 2008. The proportion of cases with multidrug resistant-TB (MDR-TB) among those without previous treatment declined from 1.7% in 2001 to 0.9% in 2008. It is logical that reduction in the failure and default rate would lead to the reduction of cases with previous treatment and TB transmission, including resistant TB, therefore to the reduction of MDR-TB rates. 
Characteristics and treatment outcomes of tuberculosis cases by risk groups, Japan, 2007-2010.	We studied the characteristics and treatment outcomes of the following risk groups for tuberculosis (TB): those with HIV and diabetes mellitus (DM), contact cases, the homeless, foreigners, health care workers (HCW) and the elderly.
A mobile health approach to tuberculosis contact tracing in resource-limited settings.	Tuberculosis remains a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. In 2011, there were 8.7 million new cases and 1.4 million deaths from the disease, with &gt;95% of these deaths taking place in low- and middle-income countries [1]. Contact tracing prevents the spread of tuberculosis by identifying and screening a case's contacts and referring symptomatic individuals to health care providers. Traditionally, contact tracing has been conducted with paper forms, which can lead to considerable inefficiencies in data collection, storage, and retrieval. These inefficiencies are problematic as tuberculosis can continue to spread if disruption of disease transmission is delayed. Mobile health approaches to tuberculosis contact tracing remain largely unaddressed and limited to management and monitoring of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis [2].To address these limitations, a mobile health application that digitizes and automates contact tracing was developed. This poster presents work currently underway to evaluate this new approach in Botswana, which has the tenth highest incidence rate of tuberculosis in the world [3]. Operational considerations for implementing a mobile health approach to contact tracing in resource-limited settings are also presented. 
Beijing genotype of Mycobacterium tuberculosis is significantly associated with linezolid resistance in multidrug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant tuberculosis in China.	Linezolid (LNZ) is a promising antimicrobial agent for the treatment of multidrug-resistant (MDR) and extensively drug-resistant (XDR) tuberculosis (TB). To investigate the efficacy of LNZ among MDR-TB and XDR-TB in China, the LNZ susceptibility of 158 MDR-TB isolates from the national drug resistance survey was determined by the minimum inhibitory concentration method. The 158 MDR-TB isolates were also sequenced in the 23S rRNA, rplC and rplD genes conferring LNZ resistance and were typed using spoligotyping to identify the Beijing genotype of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Overall, the prevalence of LNZ-resistant isolates was 10.8% (17/158) among MDR-TB isolates circulating in China. Beijing genotype was significantly associated with LNZ resistance in MDR-TB and XDR-TB (odds ratio=4.66, 95% confidence interval 1.03-21.16; P=0.033). In addition, a higher frequency of LNZ-resistant isolates was observed among XDR-TB strains (60%) compared with the MDR (5.6%; P<0.001) and pre-XDR groups (12.2%; P=0.004). Mutations in 23S rRNA and rplC were responsible for only 29.4% of LNZ-resistant M. tuberculosis among MDR-TB isolates, and a novel non-synonymous substitution His155Asp in rplC was first identified to be contributing to low-level LNZ resistance (2μg/mL) in M. tuberculosis. The unsatisfactory correlation between mutant genotypes highlights the urgent need to investigate another mechanism for LNZ resistance that has not yet been described. 
Drug resistance in initial isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis in England and Wales, 1982-1991.	A total of 1833 out of over 16,000 'initial' isolates of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, submitted by hospital laboratories to the PHLS Regional Tuberculosis Centres in England and Wales between 1982 and 1991, were resistant to one or more first line anti-tuberculosis drugs. Isoniazid resistance was found in 6.1% of these strains, half of which were resistant to isoniazid alone. Resistance to isoniazid and rifampicin, with or without resistance to other drugs, was found in 0.6% of isolates. The proportion of initial isolates resistant to one or more drugs was 9.8%. It ranged from 8.0% to 10.9% between 1982 and 1990, and increased to 14.2% in 1991. The incidence of multiple drug resistance remained very low throughout the period. However, in the light of the problems with tuberculosis and drug resistance emerging elsewhere in the world, vigilance is essential, and enhanced surveillance is being planned in England and Wales.
Tuberculosis: distribution, risk factors, mortality.	About a century after Koch's discovery of the TB bacilli the tuberculosis epidemic which had appeared to be under control was again recognized as a major global health threat. The decline in the epidemic in this century had been largely through the improved living standards and, eventually, the availability and use of effective antibiotics. While tuberculosis gradually disappeared from the health agenda in the western world it remained a big killer throughout the century and in 1992 an estimated 2.7 million TB deaths occurred; 30 million will die from TB during the 1990s if current trends are not reversed. The annual number of new cases will increase from 7.5 million estimated in 1990 to more than 10 million in the year 2000. The main factors for this increase are demographic forces, population movements, the HIV epidemic and increasing drug resistance. The impact of the HIV epidemic is already felt in many sub-Saharan African countries and now threatens Asia where almost two-thirds of the world's TB infected population live and where HIV is spreading. Tuberculosis has also reemerged as a major public health problem in industrialized countries due to international migration, the breakdown of health services, including TB services etc. The control of the epidemic can only be through a concerted action to reinstate TB as priority among health concerns, reflected in national and international resources. A coalition of public and private supporters must be mobilized to support the effort to fight the disease. Governments, non-governmental organizations, the business community, refugee organizations, medical institutions, and other UN agencies are invited to join with WHO in this effort.
Tuberculosis: a re-emerging problem for health care workers.	The current upward trend in the incidence of tuberculosis, particularly in the USA, and the problems of treating multiply drug resistant strains of Mycobacterium tuberculosis have caused a resurgence of interest in this infection. This review describes the microbiology, routes of transmission and epidemiology of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infections. The emergence and problems of treating multiply drug resistant strains are outlined. The significant potential for occupationally acquired infection among health care workers is discussed, together with a summary of the available infection control measures currently being examined. The true level of occupational risk to dental personnel remains uncertain.
Drug-resistant tuberculosis in Budapest.	Sixteen districts of Budapest, Hungary.
Acquired multidrug-resistant tuberculosis--Buenaventura, Colombia, 1998.	In 1996, the incidence of tuberculosis (TB) in Colombia was 26.5 per 100,000 population, and mortality was 3.4 per 100,000; in comparison, the incidence in Buenaventura, a port town on the Pacific coast, was 90.5 per 100,000, and mortality was 9.4 per 100,000. The prevalence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) (i.e., Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates resistant to at least isoniazid [INH] and rifampin [RIF]) was not known because susceptibility testing is not performed routinely, and data on drug resistance for the country have not been collected systematically. During October-November 1997, at the request of the Secretary of Health in Cali, Colombia, the International Center for Training and Medical Investigation in Cali performed sputum cultures for M. tuberculosis and drug-susceptibility testing on isolates from 18 (75%) of 24 TB patients in Buenaventura who were known to be clinically unresponsive to standard TB treatment. MDR-TB was identified in 12 (67%) of these patients, four of whom subsequently died. In March 1998, the International Center for Training and Medical Investigation and the Secretary of Health of Colombia invited CDC to participate in an investigation of these patients with MDR-TB. This report summarizes the findings of this investigation, which indicated that inconsistencies in treatment may have contributed to this outbreak, and provides recommendations for the prevention and control of MDR-TB in Buenaventura.
Characteristics of tuberculosis in a tertiary hospital during the years 1993-1996. Influence of the coinfection with HIV]	To assess and compare epidemiological factors, clinical and radiological signs, laboratory results and drug resistance in patients with tuberculosis (TB) with and without AIDS. Retrospective study of TB diagnosed bacteriologically between January 1993 and December 1996 at Hospital Universitario La Fe. Annual rates were 41.7, 47.1, 34.6 and 43.8 per 100,000 inhabitants in 1993 to 1996, respectively. AIDS was present in 22.4%. TB was pulmonary in 87% and 49.4% in patients without and with AIDS, respectively. Incidence was higher in the 25 to 34 age range. Prior contact with TB patients was established in 19.2% of cases. Pulmonary TB in patients with AIDS presented with normal lung X-rays in 30.1%; 16.2% of these had positive sputum cultures. Pulmonary cavitation was evident in 32.6% of TB patients without AIDS and 6.8% of those with AIDS. Pulmonary TB was diagnosed by culture of sputum taken at the time of admission in 25.9% of non AIDS patients and in 12.4% of patients with AIDS. Extrapulmonary TB was diagnosed by culture in most cases. Such forms predominated among TB plus AIDS patients, with most cases being ganglial and urogenital. Overall drug resistance was 8.3% (7.4% non-AIDS/11.5% AIDS). Primary resistance (PR) was 6.3% and 7.1%, PR to hydrazides was 5% and 5.4%, and secondary resistance was 32.4% and 33.3%. Drug resistance in non-AIDS and AIDS patients, was associated with a history of TB and past treatment (p < 0.009), prior contact with TB patients (p < 0.004) and pulmonary cavitatin (p < 0.02). TB with AIDS tends to occur in a younger population, is often extrapulmonary or with atypical lung involvement. Drug resistance is similar in patients with and without AIDS.
Tuberculosis notifications in Australia, 1996. Communicable Diseases Network Australia New Zealand.	Since the implementation of the National Mycobacterial Surveillance System (NMSS) in 1991, the epidemiology and trends of tuberculosis in Australia have been described in a series of annual reports. This article presents an analysis of the data for tuberculosis notifications for 1996. A total of 1,037 notifications of tuberculosis were received for the year 1996, and the crude rates of new and relapsed disease were reported at 5.37 per 100,000 and 0.29 per 100,000 respectively. Rates of tuberculosis have remained stable over the last decade and the majority of notifications and highest rates of disease continue to occur in the overseas-born population.
Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. 3. Epidemiology of drug-resistant tuberculosis in Japan]	In Japan, the frequency of drug-resistant tuberculosis has been investigated every 5 years since 1950s and increase of initial and acquired drug resistance has not been observed. However, the mathematical model analyse of time trend of prevalence of drug-resistant tuberculosis and frequency of initial drug resistance in Korea shows that there is little difference of infectivity and/or proportion of clinical breakdown between susceptible bacilli and resistant ones. The prognosis of isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin (RFP) resistant tuberculosis cases in Fukujuji Hospital was investigated. 367 cases including 50 initial drug resistant cases were analyzed with life table analysis. 50% of all cases and 70% of initial drug resistant cases became negative, 13% of all cases and 4% of initial drug resistant cases remained as positive, 37% of all cases and 27% of new cases died. Among cases who did not convert negative within one year, 41% of all cases and 34% of initial drug resistant cases died. The prognosis of INH and RFP resistant tuberculosis cases were still not satisfactory.
Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis. 5. Human immunodeficiency virus infection and multidrug-resistant tuberculosis]	Outbreaks of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) among human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected persons reported in the United States were very serious and the risks were increased by the delay of diagnosis, rapid progression from infection to active disease, inadequate therapy and poor tuberculosis (TB) control. Prevalence of drug-resistant TB among HIV-infected patients in Japan was studied. The results of drug susceptibility were collected through the nationwide working group for a survey of HIV-infected TB. Data of susceptibility for 39 cases were obtained. The isolates of two cases were resistant to isoniazid and rifampicin (including clinical failure of response), although no outbreak of MDR-TB was found in Japan. Case study of a patient who developed MDR-TB revealed that drug resistance might be selected by insufficient anti-TB therapy. The rate of resistance to any of the anti-TB drugs in HIV-infected patients seemed to be high, although strictly evaluation was difficult due to no standardization for drug susceptibility testing. Of 9 cases with resistance to any of the anti-TB drugs, 8 had extrapulmonary TB including 5 cases of disseminated TB. In contrast thirteen of 30 cases without drug resistance had extrapulmonary TB. Since it has been reported that HIV infection is related to increased rates of drug resistance of TB bacilli, treatment with four-drug regimen should be started and sufficient courses of therapy are needed in HIV-infected TB patients.
