The effect of mannose binding lectin gene polymorphisms on susceptibility to tuberculosis in different ethnic groups.	In order to investigate the role of MBL gene polymorphisms in susceptibility to tuberculosis (TB) we genotyped 487 TB cases and 232 controls. Among African-American individuals, the frequency of B allele was lower among controls than cases (p < 0.01), but we found no differences between cases and controls of white and Hispanic ethnicity.
Tuberculosis knowledge, perceived risk and risk behaviors among homeless adults: effect of ethnicity and injection drug use.	The objectives of this study were to investigate Tuberculosis (TB) knowledge, perceived risk, and risk behaviors in a sample of homeless persons with latent TB in the Skid Row district of Los Angeles. Particular emphasis was given to comparing these variables among homeless persons of varying ethnic backgrounds and among those who did and did not report a history of injection drug use (IDU). Baseline data were collected from 415 homeless individuals recruited to participate in a Tuberculosis chemoprophylaxis intervention. Areas of interest relative to TB knowledge and perceived risk for infection were behavioral factors surrounding substance use and abuse; personal factors measured in terms of current depression; and sociodemographic and situational factors, such as age, ethnicity, history of incarceration, and duration of homelessness. Findings revealed differences in substance abuse. IDUs were more likely to have histories of daily drug use and alcohol dependency, but were less apt to report recent use of crack cocaine. TB knowledge deficits centered on ignorance with respect to modes of transmission and risk factors for TB infection. IDU was also associated with depression. Latinos and IDUs were most likely to lack TB knowledge. There is a pressing need for accessible, available, culturally acceptable and sustained TB screening and intervention programs designed to address multiple risk factors and knowledge deficits with respect to TB infection in homeless populations.
Isoniazid preventive therapy for tuberculosis. Decision analysis considering ethnicity and gender.	The decision to prescribe or withhold isoniazid (INH) preventive therapy for low-risk tuberculin reactors has been highly controversial, primarily due to isoniazid's possible hepatotoxic effects. Previous analyses have explored the INH decision only from the perspective of patient age, recognizing that the risks of INH-induced hepatotoxicity are age related. Decision analyses presented in this paper assess the impact of gender and ethnic group, as well as age, on the INH decision. Results for low-risk patients favor prescribing INH preventive therapy for all 20-yr-olds, all 35-yr-olds except black women, and no 50-yr-olds, projecting life expectancy benefits that range from 3 to 19 days. A comparison set of analyses performed for high-risk patients favors prescribing INH for all groups except 50-yr-old black women. These findings suggest that ethnicity, gender, and age should be considered when making the decision to prescribe or withhold INH preventive therapy.
Comparative analysis of DR and DQ alleles occurrence in sarcoidosis and tuberculosis in the same ethnic group: preliminary study.	Pathologic similarities between sarcoidosis (SA) and tuberculosis (TB) suggest M. tuberculosis antigen(s) as causative agents. It seems likely that in the genetically different predisposed hosts, the same antigen(s) may cause the development of sarcoid or tuberculous Th1 response. AIM AND MATERIALS/METHODS: To test a difference in haplotypes associated with both diseases, we compared the distribution of DRB1, DQA1 and DQB1 alleles in 45 SA patients, 62 TB patients and in 143 healthy volunteers, using a PCR-SSP method.
P2X7 gene polymorphisms and risk assessment for pulmonary tuberculosis in Asian Indians.	Pulmonary tuberculosis (PTB) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality. Macrophages play an important role in the immunopathogenesis of tuberculosis. Extracellular ATP induces macrophage bactericidal activity through activation of the purinergic P2X7 receptor. This case- control study assesses the association of -762 T/C, 1513A/C and 1729T/A P2X7 polymorphisms in patients with PTB and healthy controls to establish association if any with risk of developing the disease.
A novel single nucleotide polymorphism within the NOD2 gene is associated with pulmonary tuberculosis in the Chinese Han, Uygur and Kazak populations.	The present study aimed to investigate the genetic polymorphisms in exon 4 of the NOD2 gene in tuberculosis patients and healthy controls, in order to clarify whether polymorphisms in the NOD2 gene is associated with tuberculosis.
Miliary tuberculosis in a young Caucasian adult.	A young Caucasian adult presented to the Accident and Emergency department with small bowel obstruction, which necessitated an exploratory laparotomy. Multiple firm nodules were found with biopsies leading to a diagnosis of peritoneal tuberculosis (TB). Retrospectively, the patient was noted to have classical radiological pulmonary TB findings on a chest radiograph 3 months previously, and 2 weeks later had developed bony infiltration, paravertebral abscesses and likely TB skin lesions. This case illustrates an unusual presentation in a patient with minimal risk factors yet widespread extra-pulmonary disease. It also highlights the importance of attentive reviewing of x-rays.
Tuberculosis in African-American and minority populations: historic epidemiology of a nonclassic contagious process.	This article analyzes recent medical research and health data on persistent and resurgent tuberculosis within America's African-American population and other racial minorities. Case studies and epidemiologic data suggest that the African-American and minority-American community's experience with tuberculosis control problems has diverged markedly from the nation's as a whole. The key variations include: (1) the historically higher tuberculosis incidence and mortality in African-American and other minority populations compared with whites, and (2) an emerging epidemiologic pattern of interaction between human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and tuberculosis generally limited to African-American and minority populations. This trend results from the disproportionate spread of HIV disease in minority communities. There are new research needs in the fields of health policy theory, microbiology, molecular genetics, and behavioral sciences.
