Increased incidence of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in diabetic patients on the Bellevue Chest Service, 1987 to 1997.	To investigate the characteristics of tuberculosis infection in diabetic patients at Bellevue Hospital.
Towards universal access to HIV prevention, treatment, care, and support: the role of tuberculosis/HIV collaboration.	Tuberculosis is the oldest of the world's current pandemics and causes 8.9 million new cases and 1.7 million deaths annually. The disease is among the most common causes of morbidity and mortality in people living with HIV. However, tuberculosis is more than just part of the global HIV problem; well-resourced tuberculosis programmes are an important part of the solution to scaling-up towards universal access to comprehensive HIV prevention, diagnosis, care, and support. This article reviews the impact of the interactions between tuberculosis and HIV in resource-limited settings; outlines the recommended programmatic and clinical responses to the dual epidemics, highlighting the role of tuberculosis/HIV collaboration in increasing access to prevention, diagnostic, and treatment services; and reviews progress in the global response to the epidemic of HIV-related tuberculosis.
Multidrug-resistant tuberculous meningitis in an HIV-positive patient: a challenging disease.	We report two cases of disseminated multidrug-resistant tuberculosis with meningitis in HIV-positive patients, who were both recent emigrants from sub-Saharan Africa. Our two cases highlight new challenges in the care of HIV and tuberculosis coinfection including early diagnosis and treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis that is spreading.
Drug-resistant genital tuberculosis of the penis in a human immunodeficiency virus non-reactive individual.	The genitourinary tract is the most common site for extrapulmonary tuberculosis (TB). Penile TB is extremely rare comprising less than 1 % of all genital TB cases in males. It most commonly presents either as a superficial ulcer on the glans or around the corona. Diagnosis of penile TB is often difficult because it can mimic numerous other diseases. The association of TB with AIDS, and the increasing incidence of multiple drug resistance has further compounded the problem. The case described herein involves a patient with multidrug-resistant smear-positive penile TB that was undiagnosed initially due to the lack of clinical suspicion of TB, and once diagnosed failed to respond to first line antitubercular drugs because of multiple drug resistance.
Review of multidrug-resistant and extensively drug-resistant TB: global perspectives with a focus on sub-Saharan Africa.	Tuberculosis (TB) remains a global emergency and is responsible for 1.7 million deaths annually. Widespread global misuse of isoniazid and rifampicin over three decades has resulted in emergence of the ominous spread of multidrug-resistant TB (MDR-TB) and extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB) globally. These difficult to treat resistant forms of TB are increasingly seen in Asia, Eastern Europe, South America and sub-Saharan Africa, disrupting TB and HIV control programmes. We review the latest available global epidemiological and clinical evidence on drug-resistant TB in HIV-infected and uninfected populations, with focus on Africa where data are scanty because of poor diagnostic and reporting facilities. The difficult management and infection control problems posed by drug-resistant TB in HIV-infected patients are discussed. Given the increasing current global trends in MDR-TB, aggressive preventive and management strategies are urgently required to avoid disruption of global TB control efforts. The data suggest that existing interventions, public health systems and TB and HIV programmes must be strengthened significantly. Political and funder commitment is essential to curb the spread of drug-resistant TB.
Multi-drug resistant TB and HIV in Thailand: overlapping, but not independently associated risk factors.	The HIV and multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) epidemics are closely linked. In Thailand as part of a sentinel surveillance system, we collected data prospectively about pulmonary TB cases treated in public clinics. A subset of HIV-infected TB patients identified through this system had additional data collected for a research study. We conducted multivariate analysis to identify factors associated with MDR-TB. Of 10,428 TB patients, 2,376 (23%) were HIV-infected; 145 (1%) had MDR-TB. Of the MDR-TB cases, 52 (37%) were HIV-infected. Independent risk factors for MDR-TB included age 18-29 years old, male sex, and previous TB treatment, but not HIV infection. Among new patients, having an injection drug use history was a risk factor for MDR-TB. Of 539 HIV-infected TB patients in the research study, MDR-TB was diagnosed in 19 (4%); the only significant risk factors were previous TB treatment and previous hepatitis. In Thailand, HIV is common among MDR-TB patients, but is not an independent risk factor for MDR-TB. Populations at high risk for HIV-young adults, men, injection drug users - should be prioritized for drug susceptibility testing.
Rates of anti-tuberculosis drug resistance in Kampala-Uganda are low and not associated with HIV infection.	Drug resistance among tuberculosis patients in sub-Saharan Africa is increasing, possibly due to association with HIV infection. We studied drug resistance and HIV infection in a representative sample of 533 smear-positive tuberculosis patients diagnosed in Kampala, Uganda.
Culture conversion among HIV co-infected multidrug-resistant tuberculosis patients in Tugela Ferry, South Africa.	Little is known about the time to sputum culture conversion in MDR-TB patients co-infected with HIV, although such patients have, historically, had poor outcomes. We describe culture conversion rates among MDR-TB patients with and without HIV-co-infection in a TB-endemic, high-HIV prevalent, resource-limited setting.
Outcomes of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) among a cohort of South African patients with high HIV prevalence.	Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) is a major clinical challenge, particularly in patients with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) co-infection. MDR-TB treatment is increasingly available, but outcomes have not been well characterized. South Africa has provided MDR-TB treatment for a decade, and we evaluated outcomes by HIV status for patients enrolled between 2000 and 2004 prior to anti-retroviral access.
Management of children exposed to multidrug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis.	Children exposed to multidrug-resistant (MDR) Mycobacterium tuberculosis are at risk of developing MDR tuberculosis. Where treatment is available, it is lengthy, expensive, and associated with poor adherence and notable morbidity and mortality. Preventive treatment effectively lowers the risk of disease progression for contacts of individuals with drug-susceptible tuberculosis, but this strategy is poorly studied for contacts of people with MDR tuberculosis. In this Review we discuss the management of child contacts of source cases with MDR tuberculosis. We pay particular attention to assessment, existing international guidelines, possible preventive treatments, rationales for different management strategies, and the interaction with and implications of HIV infection.
Multidrug-resistant tuberculous subdural empyema with secondary methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus infection: an unusual presentation of cranial tuberculosis in an infant.	Despite tuberculosis (TB) being endemic in many parts of the world, its prevalence in infancy is low. Neurotuberculosis in this age is even rarer and presents either as meningitis or intracranial tuberculoma on the background of exposure to the disease. We report occurrence of multidrug-resistant tuberculous subdural empyema in a three-month-old girl as the initial presenting manifestation of TB in the absence of any exposure to the disease. She was successfully managed with surgery and drugs with good outcome at 18 months.
HIV-positive patients treated for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis: clinical outcomes in the HAART era.	Multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) pose two of the greatest threats to global tuberculosis (TB) control. Given expanding global access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) and second-line TB drugs, more data are needed on experiences  treating MDR-TB and HIV co-infection in resource-poor settings.
Impact of diabetes mellitus on clinical parameters and treatment outcomes of newly diagnosed pulmonary tuberculosis patients in Thailand.	To assess the clinical and laboratory parameters, response to therapy and development of antituberculosis (TB) drug resistance in pulmonary TB (PTB) patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and without DM.
Analysis of mutational characteristics of the drug-resistant gene katG in multi-drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis L-form among patients with pneumoconiosis complicated with tuberculosis.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the mutational characteristics of drug‑resistant genetic mutations in the katG gene to isoniazid (INH) in multi‑drug resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis (MTB) L‑form among patients with pneumoconiosis complicated with tuberculosis (TB), in order to reduce the occurrence of drug resistance in patients, and gain further insight into the mechanisms underlying drug resistance in MDR‑TB L‑form. A total of 114 clinically isolated strains of MTB L‑forms were collected. The MDR‑TB L‑forms were identified using a conventional antimicrobial susceptibility test (AST). The DNA genomes were extracted, the target genes were amplified by polymerase chain reaction technology and the hotspot mutational regions in the katG gene were analyzed by direct sequencing. The results of AST analysis demonstrated that there were 31 strains of MDR‑TB L‑forms in 114 clinical isolates. The mutation rate of katG was 61.29% (19/31) in INH‑resistant isolates, mainly concentrated in codon 315 (Ser315Thr, 48.39% and Ser315Asn, 9.68%) and 431 (Ala431Val, 3.23%). Base substitutions were identified, however, no multisite mutations were found. No mutations in katG were identified in 10 INH‑sensitive strains that were randomly selected. INH‑resistance was more severe in MDR‑TB L‑form isolates among patients with pneumoconiosis complicated with TB. The substitution of highly conserved amino acids encoded by the katG gene resulted in the molecular mechanisms responsible for INH resistance in MDR‑TB L‑form isolates. It was also verified that the katG gene was in diversiform. The katG Ser315Thr mutation is one of the main causes of resistance to INH in MDR‑TB L-form isolates.
Tuberculosis at the end of the twentieth century.	Tuberculosis has once again emerged as a significant public health problem in Western countries. Much of the rise has been fueled by the growing numbers of persons infected with HIV. Co-infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and HIV has been shown to result in high rates of active tuberculosis, and possibly in acceleration of progression to AIDS. Primary tuberculosis occurs at high rates among dually infected persons, further emphasizing the need for effective isolation of infectious cases. Recent preliminary studies have demonstrated that the survival of persons with multidrug-resistant tuberculosis can be six months and longer, far in excess of the 4 to 12 weeks reported previously. At least seven health care workers have died of occupationally-acquired multidrug-resistant tuberculosis, making control of the spread of tuberculosis in health care settings an urgent public health priority.
Epidemiology of tuberculosis: the impact of HIV and multidrug-resistant strains.	The recent reemergence of tuberculosis in the United States and other developed countries has been attributed to a number of factors including a decreased emphasis on tuberculosis control and immigration. Perhaps the most significant factor is the association of tuberculosis and HIV/AIDS. Infection with HIV greatly increases susceptibility to infection and increases the risk of developing active disease. In addition, progression of tuberculosis can be very rapid in patients with greatly reduced immune function. The increasing incidence of drug resistance is also contributing to the difficulty in controlling tuberculosis. Multidrug-resistance not only adversely affects the patient but contributes to prolonged infectiousness.
Current epidemiology of tuberculosis]	A major health threat in developing countries, the incidence of tuberculosis has decreased steadily in Western countries over the last century. However, since 1986, first in the United States, then more recently in several European countries, the number of declared cases has increased. The current epidemiology of tuberculosis is presented with special emphasis on French data. The possible causes of this revival have been carefully analyzed: better registration, role of immunodepression and particularly the HIV epidemic, geographical origin, drug abuse, poor living conditions.... Based on the description of resistant forms and the observations of hospital epidemics, particularly in the United States and in patients with HIV infection, curative and preventive measures may and must be undertaken whenever a case of tuberculosis is observed.
Prevalence of drug resistance in Thai human immunodeficiency virus seropositive tuberculosis patients.	The emergence of drug resistant tuberculosis has been reported from many countries which have had epidemics of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. This study was conducted at the Central Chest Hospital, Thailand in order to determine the prevalence of drug resistance before treatment in Thai HIV-infected tuberculosis patients. From the Statistics and Registration Unit, pulmonary tuberculosis patients with HIV seropositivity were matched in terms of age and gender with control cases who attended the tuberculosis clinic on the same day. Results of sensitivity test were obtained from record cards in the Microbiology Section. The method for determining the sensitivity test was absolute concentration. During the study period from January 1988 to December 1993, 798 patients were registered as having tuberculosis and HIV infection. Only 406 sensitivity tests were available before treatment and resisted to Isoniazid 56 (13.8%), rifampicin 36 (8.9%), ethambutol 6 (1.5%), streptomycin 64 (15.8%) and Multidrug resistant (MDR)- TB 11 (2.7%). In the control group, 475 tests were available and resisted to isoniazid 61 (12.8%), rifampicin 52 (10.9%), ethambutal 2 (0.4%), streptomycin 46 (9.7%) and MDR-TB 13 (2.7%). The prevalence of resistance to each drug was not significantly different except for streptomycin. We concluded that the prevalence of antituberculous drug resistance among Thai HIV-infected tuberculosis patients was not higher than among general tuberculosis patients.
Use of rifabutin in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.	This article reviews recent studies conducted outside the United States assessing the efficacy and safety of rifabutin in the treatment of tuberculosis (TB) in HIV-infected patients, in patients with newly diagnosed TB, and in patients with multidrug-resistant TB. A 6-month pilot study of 50 Ugandan patients with TB associated with HIV infection showed that rifabutin and rifampin were similarly effective with regard to conversion of sputum-smear findings (sputum conversion) and in bringing about clinical and radiologic improvement. Compared with rifampin, rifabutin showed potential for reducing the time to sputum conversion for these patients. Multicenter studies in five countries compared two rifabutin dosages (150 mg/d and 300 mg/d) with rifampin as part of a combination regimen for treatment of newly diagnosed TB in 935 patients. Rifabutin compared favorably with rifampin in sputum conversion; administration of 150 mg/d of rifabutin yielded good results and the fewest adverse effects. The use of rifabutin by 270 patients in five countries who had multidrug-resistant TB (approximately 90% of isolates tested were resistant to rifampin and isoniazid) was assessed in another study. For the majority of these patients, signs and symptoms diminished; one-third had bacteriologic conversions.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis drug resistance in patients with HIV and pulmonary tuberculosis infections in Rome: 1987-1996]	A retrospective chart review was performed on 118 HIV infected patients with pulmonary tuberculosis hospitalized between 1987 and 1996 in a tertiary care center for Infectious Diseases in Rome. The aims of this study were: a) to evaluate global prevalence of and risk factors for drug-resistant Mycobacterium tuberculosis and multidrug resistant tuberculosis; b) to assess trends in prevalence of drug-resistant tuberculosis over the 10-year study period. Prevalence of drug resistance of first Mycobacterium tuberculosis isolates was tested on Lowenstein-Jensen medium with the proportional method. Of the 118 patients studied, 83 had never been treated for tuberculosis and 35 had already been treated for at least 1 month. The overall prevalence of resistance to one or more drugs was 25% (17% in never treated patients vs 46% in already treated patients; p = 0.002). Five percent of isolates were resistant to both isoniazid and rifampin (1% in never treated patients vs 14% in already treated patients; p = 0.008). Resistance rates to individual drugs were: isoniazid 14%, rifampin 8%, ethambutol 0%, streptomycin 13%. During the study period no significant variations in prevalence of drug-resistant tuberculosis were found. In our area, empiric therapy should include 4 drugs: as well as isoniazid, rifampin and pyrazinamide, we recommend ethambutol. Surveillance of drug-resistant tuberculosis is needed. Directly observed therapy should be considered for HIV patients in order to prevent increases in drug resistance, relapses, and treatment failures.
