Urogenital infection by Mycobacterium bovis relapsing after 50 years.	A 64-year-old man was referred to chest clinic after presenting initially with painless haematuria. Bladder biopsies showed granulomatous inflammation and subsequent urine cultures grew Mycobacterium bovis. He had been treated empirically for genito-urinary tuberculosis twice previously and on both occasions his haematuria ceased. Although the early hospital notes have been destroyed we believe this represents a very late and recurrent relapse of cystitis due to M. bovis.
Role of polymerase chain reaction in diagnosing tuberculosis of the bladder and male sex organs]	Detection of M. tuberculosis DNA by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and standard technique was compared in 76 new cases of urogenital tuberculosis. In the urinary test PCR confirmed tuberculous etiology of the disease and corresponded to M. tuberculosis detection in 27 (60%) of 45 patients with urinary tuberculosis. M. tuberculosis DNA detection rose significantly in patients with mycobacteriuria (71%) and in examination of aspirates from isolated renal cavern, blocked kidney, epididymis, prostate and seminal vesicles. Treatment for 1 month and longer transforms the positive result into the negative one. Of 16 patients with tuberculosis of male sexual organs M. tuberculosis DNA were detected by PCR in prostatic secretion in 43.7%, in ejaculate in 93%. This did not correlate with detection of M. tuberculosis. Thus, PCR is recommended for instant diagnosis and screening before further examination and cannot be the only method in identification of urogenital tuberculosis.
Unexpected complication in an elderly lady suffering from rheumatoid arthritis]	A 66-year old female suffering from rheumatoid arthritis was treated with methotrexate and intra-articular steroid injections. She had gone through pulmonary tuberculosis at the age of 2 years, also, surgery had been performed 2 years ago because of perforated sigmoid diverticulitis. The patient now presented with episodes of abdominal pain and diarrhea as well as occasional night sweats. Laboratory investigation (normal BSR, CRP and white blood cell counts) did not indicate the presence of an inflammatory process, such as reoccurrence of diverticulitis. However, leukocyturia was repetitively found in this patient with the conventional urine culture yielding no significant bacterial growth. Further urine investigation did not indicate infection with Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Ziehl Neelson stains of morning urinary samples did not show acid-fast rods, however, Mycobacterium tuberculosis was finally isolated by culture. Thus, urogenital tuberculosis was finally diagnosed in this patient. Infection, hematogenic dissemination, and spontaneous remission of pulmonary tuberculosis had occurred more than 60 years ago. After a long latent period, reactivation of tuberculosis happened during drug-induced immunosuppression. The patient was successfully treated with an anti-tuberculosis triple-drug therapy during 2 months followed by a double-drug therapy during 4 months.
Urogenital bilharziasis: imaging diagnosis]	Urogenital bilharziasis is a well-known disease that seldom is encountered in western countries. Therefore, bilharziasis usually only is considered after tuberculosis, the main differential diagnosis, has been excluded. Using this case, we will discuss the value of different imaging techniques (especially that of CT combined with transrectal US) for diagnosing bilharziasis and review specific criteria to more easily distinguish both pathologies.
Urogenital tuberculosis: problems of present-day diagnosis and treatment]	The analysis of 4904 cases with tuberculosis admitted to the urological department of Moscow tuberculosis hospital N 7 in 1996-2002 showed increased incidence of new-onset and recurrent urogenital tuberculosis--the share has risen from 2.1 to 7.8%. Of 267 new cases, 49.4% had severe destructive forms. The disease manifested with chronic cystitis in 35 (13.11%), subacute orchoepidydimitis in 35 (13.11%), anatomofunctional alterations of the kidneys (hydronephrotic transformation, non-functioning kidney, ureteritis, etc.) in 76 (28.46%) patients. Bacterial discharge occurred in 52% of new cases. The diagnosis was based on clinical and x-ray data in 48%. Isolated genital tuberculosis, isolated nephrotuberculosis and their combination were revealed in 14.23, 59.57 and 26.2% patients, respectively. Among the patients with advanced destructive forms 75% got disabled completely. This fact indicates the importance of early diagnosis and adequate etiotropic therapy. Active urogenital tuberculosis was treated surgically in 51% patients, most of the operations were made for marked destructive processes in the kidneys. The organ-removing operations were conducted in 73% of them. Preoperative tuberculostatic therapy reduced frequency of postoperative complications. In early diagnosis, the organ was saved in operations in 9.38%. It is recommended to refer patients to the phthisiourologist to be examined for urogenital tuberculosis if they have long-standing urogenital infection, destructive lesions of the upper urinary tracts, calculous prostatitis.
Urogenital tuberculosis still a disease of current interest]	Of 980 cases of tuberculosis diagnosed in Stockholm County during the 9.5 year period, 1982 to June 1991, 66 were cases of genito-urinary tuberculosis. Of the 37 males, about 50 per cent were younger immigrants, while most of the 29 females were elderly Swedish women. Urine was the predominant source of positive test material. Although genito-urinary tuberculosis is unusual in Sweden, it is an entity that should be borne in mind when assessing genito-urinary tract symptoms, particularly in immigrants, the elderly, and people with a history of pulmonary tuberculosis.
Tuberculosis of the urinary bladder: diagnosis and treatment]	Tuberculosis of the urinary bladder (UB) is registered in 10-45.6% patients with urogenital tuberculosis. It is a severe incapacitating complication of kidney tuberculosis which significantly lowers quality of life. The results of the standard therapy of 76 patients with tuberculous cystitis are analysed. UB tuberculosis is diagnosed more often in women, outcomes of their treatment are worse. Twenty six patients with UB tuberculosis at the stage of overactive bladder received polychemotherapy and adjuvant trospium. After 3 months urination frequency decreased 4.3 times, on the average; UB volume increased 4.7 times, on the average. Complications were not registered.
Current survey of urinary tuberculosis in Hokkaido, Japan.	Urinary tuberculosis has been rare in recent years and its diagnosis is difficult because there are no disease-specific symptoms. We tried to clarify the occurrence of urinary tuberculosis in recent years in our area. During the past 5 years, there were 12 patients with urinary tuberculosis in the clinics that participated in this study. Their chief complaints were frequent voiding in 7 patients and gross hematuria in 3 patients. They were diagnosed by nucleic acid amplification tests and imaging modalities such as excretory urography, computed tomography, and/or cystoscopy. Most of the patients received multidrug treatment and had relatively favorable treatment outcomes. There has been a small but neglected number of patients with urinary tuberculosis in recent years. We should keep this rare and difficult-to-diagnose disease in mind and suspect it when patients complain of longstanding urinary symptoms with no obvious cause.
Frequency of microbiologicaly diagnosed urinary system tuberculosis in Tuzla canton area]	In this study we analyzed microbiology results of tuberculosis in urinary system, in the area of Tuzla canton in period since 1993 to 2005 year. For microbiological diagnosis we tested samples of whole morning urine by method of concentration and homogenization by Petroff and inoculated on Loewenstein culture media. All grown culture was identified biochemical by production of niacin, reduction of nitrate and production of heat labile catalase. In this investigated period we tested 121,945 samples of different biological materials on Mycobacterium tuberculosis: sputum 89,433, gastrolavate 5,122, broncholavate 1,337, pleural exudation 1,356, punctuates 1,711, liquors 179, stools 149, blood 4, urine 22,654 samples. All urine samples were taken from 4,192 patients. Positive culture is found in 358 urine samples or in 1, 58%, or 173 patients or 4, 13%. From total 4,759 microbiologically diagnosed patients with all different types of tuberculosis in this period of time, with pulmonary tuberculosis there was 4,495 or 94, 45% patients and 264 or 5, 55% with extrapulmonal types of tuberculosis. Tuberculosis of urinary system is microbiologically diagnosed in 173 or 3, 63% patients out of total number of diagnosed tuberculosis cases. Tuberculosis of urinary system is diagnosed in 115 women and 58 men. In both sexes it was most often diagnosed in age of 65 to 74 year and in women in age of 45 to 54 year and in man in age 25 to 34 year. Tuberculosis of urinary system is more common in patients from Tuzla then from other town in Tuzla canton. It is also more common in patients that were treated in Clinic then those who were treated ambulatory. We can conclude that distance of place of living from place of microbiology laboratory significantly influence on microbiologically diagnostic of tuberculosis of urinary system.
Organization of early diagnosis of urinary tract tuberculosis at general medical institutions]	Out-patient records of 1006 patients representing urologic tuberculosis risk groups and those of 104 persons never treated for urologic diseases before were analysed. Subjects with multiple and long-term aggravations of a urologic process and persistent pyuria were at higher risk for urinary tuberculosis. This group of patients made up 20-25% of those registered as having nonspecific diseases of the urinary system. A high risk group should also include patients who are observed and treated for different nonurologic conditions. At the same time their clinical urinalyses indicate stable abnormalities, including leukocyturia, albuminuria and hematuria.
High mortality in adults hospitalized for active tuberculosis in a low HIV prevalence setting.	This study aims to evaluate the outcomes of adults hospitalized for tuberculosis in a higher-income region with low HIV prevalence.
Endoscopy in the diagnosis of genital tuberculosis.	From 1977 to 1986, endoscopy (laparoscopy, cystoscopy and hysteroscopy) was used in the evaluation of women for pelvic tuberculosis. Among 687 cases of diagnostic laparoscopy, pelvic tuberculosis was suspected in 101 (14.7%) from the appearance alone. The appearance was correlated with other criteria for the diagnosis. Definitive evidence was found in 70 cases. All 101 patients were placed on an antibiotic. Seventy-three patients reported for follow-up for more than two years. Of them, six (8.2%) were judged to be cured. Thirty-eight (52.05%) improved as determined by second-look laparoscopy and/or negative histopathology or hysterosalpingographic evidence. Eleven women (15.06%) had an intrauterine pregnancy; nine delivered normally, and two underwent termination of pregnancy for medical reasons. There were three tubal pregnancies (4.1%). In 15 cases (20.5%) the disease remained stationary.
A clinical observation on urogenital tuberculosis]	A clinical observation was made on 30 cases of urogenital tuberculosis diagnosed and treated at the urological department of our Hospital between January, 1976 and December, 1984. Furthermore, 20 of them were examined for drug resistance and investigated for this tendency. They accounted for 0.23% of the outpatients. Male to female ratio was 2 to 1, but on urological tuberculosis this ratio was even. The average age was 43.7 and 50% of the patients who had a history of tuberculosis. Mycobacterium tuberculosis could be detected in 24 of the 30 cases (80%) and 18 of the 21 cases (85.4%) of urological tuberculosis. Drug resistance was examined in 20 patients. The resistant ratio of M. tuberculosis against primary drugs such as SM, PAS, INAH was low and a high resistant ratio was observed on secondary drugs such as EB, RFP, TH. These clinical observations are reported and herein discussed.
Urological tuberculosis mimicking bladder tumour.	A total of 8 patients have been treated in the recent 10 years in whom urogenital tuberculosis simulated the picture of bladder tumour. This occurred in 3% of overall patients with urogenital tuberculosis, i.e. primary diagnosis proved to be erroneous in such percentage of them. The course of the disease of 2 patients is reviewed in detail. In order to establish the differential diagnosis between the two diseases, the importance of bladder biopsy following polycystography is pointed out.
Mass screening program for prostatic diseases with transrectal ultrasonotomography.	A special chair-type apparatus for transrectal ultrasonotomography was developed in our laboratory 3 years ago. We did a mass screening program for prostatic disease, using this equipment as the primary study in the system. The 132 apparently normal men evaluated ranged in age from 40 to 76 years (mean 55.0). The 48 patients suspected of having prostatic disease underwent secondary studies, consisting of the usual urological examinations. Prostatic disease was detected in 24 cases, including 18 cases of benign prostatic hyperplasia. Thus, the model program revealed an extraordinarily high prevalence of latent prostatic disease among apparently normal older men.
A case of kidney and ureter tuberculosis causing diagnostic difficulties]	A case is presented of tuberculosis of the kidney and ureter with negative bacteriological examination, suspected of malignant tumour. The diagnosis was based on histological examination of ureteral specimen taken intraoperatively.
Tubercular cavity behind the prostate and bladder: an unusual presentation of genitourinary tuberculosis.	Genitourinary tuberculosis, which is still common in developing countries, sometimes has an unusual presentation. We report 2 cases of a tubercular cavity behind the bladder and prostate which initially eluded diagnosis, and discuss pathogenesis and management of this rare entity.
