Hodgkin's disease presenting as a parasternal chest wall mass.	A 53 year-old Moroccan woman presented with a tender parasternal mass. Computerized tomography showed a mediastinal mass protruding through the sternum. Cytologic examination of fluid collected from the mass repeatedly showed acute inflammation. Tuberculostatics were started. Since patient did not improve on tuberculostatics, a small supraclavicular lymph node was removed. Histologic examination showed Morbus Hodgkin of the nodular sclerosing type. Ultimately, cytologic examination of fluid from the parasternal mass showed atypical cells. Response on chemotherapy was excellent with complete disappearance of the parasternal mass. This is a very unusual extranodal presentation of Hodgkin's disease.
Combined use of fine needle aspiration cytology and polymerase chain reaction in the diagnosis of cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis.	Although fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC) is an effective mean for the diagnosis of cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis (CTL), it still poses a certain degree of false negative and false positive. The objective of this study was to determine the efficiency of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in combination with fine needle aspiration cytology in the diagnosis of CTL. Thirty three patients who presented with enlarged cervical lymph nodes, and were clinically suggestive of CTL were included in the study. Fine needle aspiration or surgical biopsy of lymph nodes was performed, the specimens were studied for cytology, acid fast bacilli stain, culture for mycobacteria and PCR technique. The sensitivity and specificity of FNAC was 48 per cent and 87.5 per cent respectively, while that of PCR was 84 per cent and 75 per cent respectively. When FNAC and PCR were combined, the sensitivity and specificity increased to 84 per cent and 100 per cent respectively. We concluded that FNAC in combination with the PCR technique is a fast and effective clinical diagnostic approach for CTL.
Tuberculosis of pancreas and peripancreatic lymph nodes in immunocompetent patients: experience from China.	To determine the clinical, radiographic and laboratory characteristics, diagnostic methods, and therapeutic variables in immunocompetent patients with tuberculosis (TB) of the pancreas and peripancreatic lymph nodes.
Nontuberculous mycobacterial infections of the head and neck.	Nontuberculous mycobacteria are ubiquitous in the environment. Immunocompetent children are commonly infected by these resilient organisms. Cervical lymphadenitis, the most frequent head and neck manifestation of NTM infection, often presents as chronic, unilateral lymphadenopathy with characteristic violaceous overlying skin changes. Diagnosis is ultimately dependent on culture or histopathologic examination of specimen obtained through excisional lymph node biopsy or FNA. The principal treatment of NTM infection remains the surgical excision of diseased tissue. Antibiotics augment surgical therapy and their potential role as a single-modality therapy continues to be investigated.
Diagnosis of tuberculous lymphadenitis in Butajira, rural Ethiopia.	Tuberculous lymphadenitis (TBLN) is a diagnostic challenge in sub-Saharan Africa, where there is a high rate of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. This study aimed to find ways to improve the diagnosis in Butajira, rural Ethiopia, where TBLN constitutes 40% of the total tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis. Among 147 clinically suspected cases, 107 (72.8%) were confirmed as TBLN by fine-needle aspiration (FNA) cytology and acid-fast bacillus (AFB) smear examination. Of the remaining 40 cases, denoted non-tuberculous lymphadenitis (NTBLN) after this smear examination, 37 (92.5%) showed a cytological pattern with neutrophil aggregates. The clinical manifestations were similar and cervical lymph nodes were the most affected in these 2 groups. 24 of the 107 TBLN cases (22.4%) and 9 (22.5%) of the other cases were seropositive for HIV infection (p > 0.5). FNA cytology combined with AFB smear examination is a good alternative to histology in rural Ethiopia where the expertise in taking biopsies is very limited. Polymerase chain reaction for Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex DNA was positive in 15 of 23 cases tested with NTBLN cytology, showing that an additional independent criterion for the presence of M. tuberculosis is needed for diagnosis in lymphadenitis cases of this kind. These findings could help to strengthen the diagnostic algorithm suggested by the National TB Control Program.
Ten years of extrapulmonary tuberculosis in a Danish university clinic.	The objective of this study was to describe the symptoms, diagnostic measures and outcomes of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (ex-TB) in a Danish university clinic from 1990 to 1999. 48 patients with ex-TB were identified retrospectively and clinical and laboratory data extracted from the patient files. The majority were immigrants from Africa (71%). A direct connection between symptoms on admission and anatomical localization of TB was found in 83%. The main localizations of ex-TB were peripheral lymph nodes (n = 15) and the abdomen (n = 19). In 73% Mycobacterium tuberculosis could be cultured. One culture was resistant to isoniazide and 1 had decreased sensitivity to isoniazide and etambutol. Two patients relapsed with TB. Some pitfalls in diagnosing TB were found, as 13% had a normal erythrocyte sedimentation rate at presentation, 9% had a negative tuberculin skin test and fever was absent in 31% of the cases. The patients' subjective complaints on admission should guide the diagnostic procedures.
Extrapulmonary tuberculosis: case of a 70-year-old woman suffering from cutaneous lymph node, renal and bone tuberculosis ]	We have described a case of a 70-year-old woman, treated for a pancreas cancer, which was diagnosed for many months because of atypical skin lesions, lymphadenopathy and progressing cachexia. Despite many autoimmunological, serological, histopathological, bacteriological and mycological examinations there was no diagnosis. Finally the case of extrapulmonary tuberculosis involving skin, lymph nodes, kidneys and bones was diagnosed. After the introduction of antituberculotic therapy we are observing some clinical improvement and regression of symptoms.
Transbronchial needle aspiration in diagnosing intrathoracic tuberculous lymphadenitis.	To assess the role of transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) in diagnosing intrathoracic tuberculous lymphadenitis (TB-LA).
Tuberculous lymphadenitis in Manitoba: incidence, clinical characteristics and treatment.	Tuberculous lymphadenitis (TBL) is an important form of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (TB). Recent studies have shown an increase in TBL in Canada.
Clinical evaluation of the gen-probe amplified mycobacterium tuberculosis direct test for rapid diagnosis of tuberculosis lymphadenitis.	This prospective study evaluated the performance of the Amplified Mycobacterium Tuberculosis Direct Test (MTD) for the diagnosis of lymph node tuberculosis in Djibouti, Republic of Djibouti. Of 197 specimens sampled from 153 patients, 123 were from 95 tuberculous patients. The sensitivity and specificity of MTD were 93 and 100%, respectively. The sensitivity of culture was 89%.
Reactivation of tuberculous lymphadenitis during pregnancy.	Three patients presenting with tuberculous lymphadenitis during pregnancy are described. By suppressing cell-mediated immunity, pregnancy predisposes the mother to infections of the type in which cellular immunity is important in defence. In this setting, self-healed primary pulmonary or extra-pulmonary tuberculosis may reactivate.
Clinical issues of tuberculous cervical lymphadenitis: evaluation of 5 cases with packet formation]	Cervical lymphadenopathy with packet formation as the sole presentation of tuberculosis is very rarely seen in modern Japan. During the four years from 1987 to 1990, 5 cases of cervical scrofula with packet formation were treated with selective neck dissection followed by antituberculous chemotherapy at the ENT-department of Haibara General Hospital. Clinical evaluation of these cases suggested the following: 1) The physician must keep in mind that cervical scrofula should be included in the differential diagnosis of any neck masses, and malignant neck tumors particularly should be differentiated from cervical scrofula. 2) The treatment of cervical scrofula should be appropriate to the clinical stage diagnosed by CT or MRI. Recommended therapy for cervical scrofula with packet formation is selective neck dissection followed by antituberculous chemotherapy, which can shorten the period of treatment. 3) We present here a 22-year-old female from the Philippines with cervical scrofula and suggest that, in the future in Japan, tuberculosis may frequently be encountered in the immigrant population from the countries with high incidences of tuberculosis.
The acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in the elderly]	Three cases of AIDS in patients older than 60 years of age are presented and are characterized by the delay in diagnosis even in the face of suggestive clinical manifestations because of the lack of suspicion leading to fatal short term evolution in all the cases. The importance of HIV infection and its characteristics at this age are discussed. Transfusion is the most frequent method of transmission. The clinical manifestations do not differ from those of other ages with neurological and psychiatric manifestations being significant as a form of presentation. Evolution is usually rapidly progressive. The need to suspect HIV infection is emphasized in elderly patients when presenting typical AIDS pathology or atypical dementia or rapid evolution specially if pertaining to a risk group.
The coincidence of mediastinal tuberculosis lymphadenitis in lung cancer patients.	Mediastinal lymph node enlargement in operable non-small cell lung cancer is of clinical importance since it indicates the high possibility of nodal metastasis. The coincidence of tuberculosis and lung cancer is detected by the mediastinal lymph node staging of lung cancer patients. In our study, we retrospectively re-evaluated the records of patients who had been hospitalized with the diagnosis of lung cancer for the past 10 years. The mean age was 58 +/- 10 years (ranging from 39 to 72). A tuberculous lymphadenitis was detected in 16 of the 315 (5.1%) patients in one and/or multiple stations by either mediastinoscopy or thoracotomy. Inferior paratracheal lymph nodes (4R-4L) were the most frequently affected. None of the patients had a history of primary tuberculosis infection. The cell type was squamous cell carcinoma in ten patients (62.5%) and adenocarcinoma in six patients (37.5%). The tumour was located in the right lung in nine patients (56.2%). The most frequently involved site was the right upper lobe (n = 13, 81.2%). N2 disease was detected in six patients (37.5%). Our study showed that 5.1% of lung patients had tuberculous lymphadenitis coincidentally. The diagnosis and treatment of this latent disease could be considered as important, especially in lung cancer patients who would potentially receive radiotherapy or chemotherapy which alters the immune system. However, the real value of this finding needs further study.
Solitary intra-abdominal tuberculous lymphadenopathy mimicking duodenal GIST.	Tuberculosis remains prevalent in developing countries and has recently re-emerged in the Western world. Intra-abdominal tuberculosis can mimic a variety of other abdominal disorders, and here we describe a patient with solitary tuberculous mesenteric lymphadenopathy mimicking duodenal gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST). A 22-year-old woman complained of epigastric discomfort and was presumed to have a duodenal GIST after an endoscopic examination and abdominal CT scan. However, exploratory laparotomy revealed an enlarged node penetrating the duodenal bulb, which was diagnosed histopathologically as tuberculous lymphadenitis. This case suggests that in regions with a high prevalence of tuberculosis, intra-abdominal tuberculosis is often mistaken as a malignant neoplasm. A high index of suspicion and the accurate nonsurgical diagnosis of intra-abdominal tuberculosis continues to be a challenge.
4 years' experience of head and neck tuberculosis in a south London hospital.	In a south London department of otorhinolaryngology and head and neck surgery, 33 cases of tuberculosis were diagnosed in 4 years. The most common presentation was cervical adenitis (58%) and in some cases the initial investigations suggested malignant disease. Most of the patients were of non-British origin but none proved to be HIV seropositive. Fine-needle aspiration was positive for tuberculosis in 7 of 19 patients. 21 patients required a surgical procedure for diagnosis.
Case report of lymph nodal, hepatic and splenic tuberculosis in an HIV-positive patient.	We describe a case of a male patient, 38 years old, HIV-positive (most recent CD4 count about 259/mm(3)), with abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, anorexia, weight loss, and vespertine high fever with chills. His hemogram showed normocytic and normochromic anemia, with a high erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) and gross granulations in the neutrophils. Transaminases were normal. Bone marrow biopsy evidenced a chronic disease anemia pattern and a lack of infectious agents. Abdominal ultrasound examination showed a normal-size spleen, which exhibited heterogeneous parenchyma and multiple small hypoechoic images, together with small ascites, peripancreatic and para-aortic lymphadenopathy. These findings were confirmed by abdominal CT. The liver was normal in size, but had a hyperechoic image, which was not visualized on CT. Histopathological analysis of one of the multiple abdominal lymph nodes obtained by laparoscopic biopsy exhibited a chronic granulomatous inflammatory process, with caseous necrosis. Tissue sections were positive for BAAR (acid-alcohol-resistant bacillus), and the cultures were positive for Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Anti-tuberculosis treatment was begun, and the patient evolved with improvement of his general state, fever remission and weight gain. Splenic tuberculosis is a rare disease, occurring predominantly in patients in late stages of AIDS and/or disseminated tuberculosis. It is a difficult diagnosis, since there are no specific findings. Hence, complementary examinations, such as abdominal ultrasound/ CT, or fine needle aspiration, are usually necessary for investigation and differential diagnosis. Often, lesion regression after anti-tuberculosis regimens can be seen, and splenectomy is restricted to complicated or refractory disease.
Simultaneous use of two PCR systems targeting IS6110 and MPB64 for confirmation of diagnosis of tuberculous lymphadenitis.	PCR has emerged as a powerful technique for detection of various pathogens including Mycobacterium tuberculosis. In present study, eighty one samples of lymph node biopsies from clinically suspected cases of tuberculous lymphadenitis were examined for AFB, culture on Löwenstein Jensen medium and simultaneous use of two PCRs targeting IS6110 and MPB64. Positivity with M. tuberculosis culture and AFB was 13.6% and 28.4% respectively. All samples culture positive for nontuberculous mycobacteria were negative by both PCR systems. Higher proportion of positive results were observed with PCR targeting IS6110 by which 56 of 81 (69.1%) samples showed positive results as compared to PCR targeting MPB64 by which 39 of 81 (48.2 %) samples showed positive results. When combined, 63 out of 81 (77.8%) samples were detected positive for M. tuberculosis DNA. However, 7/81 (8.6 %) samples remained negative by IS6110 but positive by MPB64 method. Thus our data suggest that the use of one additional PCR (other than IS6110 system) can reduce false negativity of PCR results in the samples harboring zero copy of IS6110 element which is known to exist in Indian population.
Scrofula as a presentation of tuberculosis and HIV.	Scrofula, or tuberculous cervical lymphadenitis, though now rare, is more commonly seen in minorities, women and immunosuppressed patients, especially those with HIV. We discuss a patient who presented to the emergency department with an anterior neck abscess and was diagnosed with both advanced HIV and disseminated tuberculosis. A high level of suspicion is necessary to make this diagnosis, but given an increasing degree of global mobility, such patients may present anywhere. Medical management is effective, though difficult. Early diagnosis improves the patient's individual prognosis and may prevent further exposure and transmission to the population.
Nested polymerase chain reaction in the diagnosis of cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis in Mexican children.	Cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis (CTBL) diagnosis is a critical problem due to the difficulty in culturing Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Mesenteric lymphangioma in adult: a case series with a review of the literature.	Mesenteric lymphangioma is a rare benign tumor with nonspecific clinical features. A case series of three adult patients who had mesenteric lymphangioma is reported along with a review of literature. Two patients presented with painless abdominal swelling who were being managed as a case of abdominal tuberculosis and a third one had features of intestinal obstruction. In our cases, preoperative diagnosis of mesenteric lymphangioma was not suspected and all the patients had laparotomy. Peroperative findings revealed mesenteric masses, which were simulating cavitatory form of mesenteric node tuberculosis. It is stressed that mimicking of mesenteric lymphangioma with a cavitatory form of tuberculosis of mesenteric nodes in areas of high prevalence may lead to its misdiagnosis. Histopathology confirmed diagnosis of mesenteric lymphangioma in each case. Although rare and difficult to diagnose preoperatively, surgical resection is to be considered gold standard treatment for mesenteric lymphangioma.
Extrapulmonary tuberculosis in Kabul, Afghanistan: a hospital-based retrospective review.	The purpose of this study is to amplify the knowledge base of the epidemiology, symptoms, and signs of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB) in Afghanistan.
An unusual cause of cervical lymphadenitis: Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease.	Cervical lymphadenitis may be the result of diverse conditions in a patient. Clinical and epidemiologic information about cervical lymphadenitis can often lead to a presumptive diagnosis and, thus, limit the number of studies required as well as direct the type of initial therapy administered. We report a case of cervical lymphadenitis in a Vietnamese woman for whom a presumptive diagnosis of tuberculosis was made and antituberculous therapy was started. Pathologic examination of an excised lymph node revealed the correct diagnosis--histiocytic necrotizing lymphadenitis, or Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease. We review the clinical, epidemiologic, and pathologic features of this recently recognized disease. Careful examination of excised material from the lymph nodes should prevent patients who have Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease from receiving unnecessary treatment.
Diagnosis of peripheral tuberculous lymphadenitis in Tunisia]	The aim of the study was to evaluate the contribution of microbiology, cytology, and anatomopathology in 50 cases of peripheral tuberculous lymphadenitis.
Comparison of patients with ocular tuberculosis in the 1990s and the 2000s.	To compare clinical findings in patients with ocular tuberculosis experienced during two different decades.
Diagnosis of tubercular lymphadenopathy by fine needle aspiration cytology, acid-fast staining and mantoux test.	This study was undertaken to evaluate the role of Ziehl-Neelsen stain (for acid-fas bacilli), and Mantoux test in diagnosing tubercular lymphadenopathy on FNAC.
The use of light-emitting diode fluorescence to diagnose mycobacterial lymphadenitis in fine-needle aspirates from children.	Fine-needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) is a simple, safe and effective method for investigating suspected mycobacterial lymphadenitis in children. Fluorescence microscopy can provide rapid mycobacterial confirmation. Light-emitting diodes (LEDs) provide a cheap and robust excitation light source, making fluorescence microscopy feasible in resource-limited settings.
Tubercular lymphadenitis - diagnostic evaluation.	Tuberculosis is one the commonest disease affecting peripheral lymph node and cervical tubercular lymphadenitis are frequently encountered in Otolaryngological practice. Three hundred fifty six (356) cases of Fine Needle Aspiration for Cytology (FNAC) positive tubercular lymphadenitis were studied from January 2006 to December 2008. FNAC positive but histopathologically negative cases were excluded from the study. Among 356 cases of FNAC positive cervical lymphadenopathy 300 cases (84.27%) were confirmed tuberculosis on histopathological examination. Remaining 50 cases (15.73%) were diagnosed as nontubercular lymphadenitis where nonspecific lymphadenitis was the commonest finding 34(9.55%) followed by metastatic carcinoma 7(1.97%), lymphoma 6(1.08%), Kikuchiz's disease 6(1.08%), Kala-Azar 2(0.56%) & Leukemia 1(0.28%). Most of the patients presented with only multiple lymph node swelling with other symptoms, such as fever 18(5.06%), pain (15.7%), tenderness 53(14.88%), weight loss 29(8.14%), anorexia 33(9.26%). Following observations are evident from this study: i) Disease is comparatively common between 12-35 years ii) Multiple matted/discrete lymph nodes are the earliest presentation iii) Multiple lymph node is the most consistent finding for clinical diagnosis. iv) Very few patients have constitutional symptoms v) Suppuration with or without abscess formation although confirms the diagnosis even then certainty is very essential. Though the evidence of cervical tuberculosis was thought to be decreasing in developing countries the real picture seems to be different. Random survey among the whole population was not done in any country rather hospital based laboratory research was made.
Assessment of lymph node tuberculosis in two provinces in Turkey.	The aim of this study was to evaluate lymph node tuberculosis (LNT) cases in two provinces in Turkey with different demographic and socioeconomic characteristics. A total of 109 LNT cases were reviewed retrospectively. The cases were analyzed and compared for symptoms, findings, age, vaccination status, and diagnostic procedures. Socioeconomic conditions were also assessed for the two provinces. A palpable cervical node was considered a significant predictor for all LNT. Mediastinal lymph node involvement was found to be common in cases of pulmonary manifestation of LNT. Female patients were predominantly from the Van Province, while older patients were found to be from Izmir Province. LNT should be suspected in lymphadenitis patients of all age-groups especially in young adolescents with cervical lymph node enlargements. In the presence of mediastinal lymphadenopathy, pulmonary tuberculosis should be investigated.
Scenario of extrapulmonary tuberculosis in a tertiary care center.	Tuberculosis is a worldwide disease and one of the major health problems of Nepal. Extrapulmonary tuberculosis is increasing all over the world. The main aim of this study was to assess the frequency of extrapulmonary tuberculosis in various organ systems of the body and to assess the pattern of disease in different age groups and gender.
Immunocytochemical detection of mycobacterial antigen in extrapulmonary tuberculosis.	The aim of the study is to determine whether immunostaining for mycobacterial antigen can contribute to the cytological diagnosis of extrapulmonary tuberculosis (EPTB). The study was carried out on aspirated material of lymph nodes, and other accessible sites, from 65 patients with clinical diagnosis of tuberculosis (TB). Twenty patients, diagnosed by fine-needle aspiration, with non-tuberculous granulomas served as controls. The diagnosis of TB was based on the demonstration of acid-fast bacilli (AFB), culture positivity for Mycobacterium tuberculosis (M. tuberculosis), or response to treatment with standard anti-tubercular therapy. Immunostaining was done using polyclonal antibody to mycobacteria. AFB positivity by Ziehl Neelsen (ZN) staining was 21%, 65.38%, and 68% respectively in Pattern 1 (granulomas alone), in Pattern 2 (granulomas with necrosis), and in Pattern 3 (necrosis alone). Overall AFB positivity was 56.92%. Twenty-eight of 65 cases were negative for AFB on direct smear. Culture was positive in 46% (13/28). Sensitivity and specificity of immunostaining were 96.92% (63/65) and 95%, respectively. Immunoreactivity was seen in 26 (92.8%) of 28 cases which were negative by ZN staining. Except in the case of leprosy, in which cross reactivity was seen, there was no immunoreactivity in the control group. Immunocytochemistry (ICC) had high sensitivity (96.2%) and specificity (95%) in the diagnosis of EPTB. ICC may be a useful adjunct to evaluation of cytomorphology and ZN staining.
Esophageal anthracosis with tuberculous lymphadenitis confirmed on transesophageal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration.	Esophageal anthracosis with tuberculous lymphadenitis is a very rare disease. Almost all reported cases are diagnosed using multiple endoscopic biopsies or thoracic esophagectomy. The present case report describes a case of esophageal anthracosis with tuberculous lymphadenitis that was diagnosed using transesophageal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration (EUS-FNA) alone. After taking antituberculosis drugs, the patient's chest pain was relieved and she recovered. The patient achieved an excellent outcome following the use of less invasive methods than mediastinoscopy. If no esophageal anthracotic lesions are found on the mucous membrane layer of the esophagus, transesophageal endoscopic ultrasound-guided fine-needle aspiration is a suitable approach for diagnosing esophageal anthracosis. 
Tuberculous osteomyelitis of the mandible with diffuse swelling of the floor of the mouth: a case report.	Primary orofacial tuberculosis (TB) is uncommon, especially with regard to the jaw. We report an unusual case for which the final diagnosis was tuberculous osteomyelitis of the mandible with cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis. The follow-up examinations for our patient showed complete regression of the swelling and healing of the mandibular lesion after 4 months of TB antibiotic therapy. The purpose of the present study was to alert clinicians to our findings and encourage them to consider oral TB in the differential diagnosis for jaw lesions with multiple enlarged cervical lymph nodes.
Thyroid tuberculosis: presenting symptom of mediastinal tuberculous lymphadenitis--an unusual case.	Tuberculosis of thyroid gland is extremely rare. It spreads to thyroid by lymphogenous or heamatogenous route or from adjacent focus, either from larynx or cervical and mediastinal adenitis. We report an unusual case of a 33-year-old male with thyroid swelling. Fine needle aspiration (FNA) smears showed epithelioid cells without necrosis and acid fast bacilli (AFB). Subsequent investigation revealed mediastinal tuberculous lymphadenitis on Computerized Tomography (CT) scan. FNA confirmed the diagnosis of mediastinal tuberculous lymphadenitis. We conclude, when epithelioid cells are seen on FNA thyroid, tuberculosis must be ruled out especially in regions where there is high prevalence of tuberculosis.
High mortality in adults hospitalized for active tuberculosis in a low HIV prevalence setting.	This study aims to evaluate the outcomes of adults hospitalized for tuberculosis in a higher-income region with low HIV prevalence.
Mycobacterium tuberculosis cervical adenitis. Diagnosis and management.	Cervical adenopathy as the sole presentation of tuberculosis is seen infrequently in the pediatric age group. Despite modern treatment and public health measures, tuberculous cervical adenitis persists, and its prompt diagnosis and treatment are important from both a clinical and preventive health perspective. The authors report five cases of children with ages ranging from 8 to 17 years, in whom cervical adenitis was the only presentation of infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis. The clinical presentation and methods of diagnosis and treatment are described, and the difficulty of differentiation between infections with M. tuberculosis and non-tuberculous mycobacterial infections is stressed. Tuberculous cervical adenitis should be considered in cases of an elusive diagnosis of a cervical mass in the pediatric patient.
Scrofula revisited.	Mycobacterial cervical lymphadenitis, or scrofula, is a disease dating back thousands of years. In spite of modern treatment and public health measures, scrofula persists but is infrequently seen. Five patients with cervical tuberculous lymphadenitis as a sole presentation have been seen in our department in the last 10 years. The clinical presentation and current methods of diagnosis and treatment are described. A short historical review is given.
The neck mass. 2. Inflammatory and neoplastic causes.	Several inflammatory processes can cause nodules or swelling in the neck. A complete physical examination and, usually, laboratory testing are required to establish the diagnosis. Common infections include cervical lymphadenitis and tuberculous lymphadenitis, cat-scratch disease, infection in the neck spaces, infectious mononucleosis, and syphilis. Primary or metastatic cancer may also be the cause. Cervical metastasis often presents as a neck mass. Although a primary tumor may not be found immediately when a neck mass is being evaluated, one is often discovered later. Other types of malignancy that may be present are histiocytic lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, rhabdomyosarcoma, thyroid cancer, and a salivary (most often parotid) gland tumor. Symptomatic treatment is sometimes adequate for infectious disease, but administration of antituberculous drugs or antibiotics may also be necessary. Incision and drainage are required for some nodes and abscesses. For neck masses caused by neoplasms, fine-needle aspiration cytology or biopsy is performed. Depending on the diagnosis, treatment consists of dissection, radiation therapy, and/or chemotherapy.
Computed tomography findings in tuberculous mediastinitis.	Tuberculous mediastinitis can be an elusive diagnosis. Computed tomography may be performed in patients before establishing this diagnosis, and one should consider this disease when mediastinal mass with infiltration of adjacent fat planes is noted. Five such cases are described.
Fine needle aspiration biopsy of granulomatous disorders.	Fine needle aspiration biopsy (FNAB) is widely used to examine neoplastic tumors, but it's value in the diagnosis of granulomatous disorders has not been investigated. The clinical outcome and the histological diagnoses of 21 patients who had a granulomatous inflammation diagnosed by FNAB were studied. In 8 cases the granulomatous nature of the lesion was confirmed by histology, and in the rest of the cases the clinical data available was consistent with the FNAB diagnosis. Seven cases of tuberculous lymphadenitis, 5 of sarcoidosis, 5 of sarcoid cell reaction related to cancer, 3 of granulomatous parotitis and one case of postvaccinial granulomatous lymphadenitis were diagnosed. We conclude that FNAB is a practical and reliable method to diagnose granulomatous disorders.
Tuberculosis and mediastinoscopy.	Biopsy of lymph nodes at mediastinoscopy has been the method of diagnosis of tuberculosis in 14 patients; Mycobacterium tuberculosis was cultured from the nodes in nine cases, and in five there was histological evidence of the disease but cultural confirmation was lacking. All patients had radiographic abnormality of the superior mediastinum, and a frequent finding at mediastinoscopy was mediastinal fibrosis involving the fascia and lymph nodes. No cause other than tuberculosis could be demonstrated to account for the mediastinal fibrosis, and the patients made clinical recoveries in response to standard courses of antituberculosis chemotherapy. The development of superior vena caval compression was not observed.
152 cases of tuberculosis in African Negro immigrants in a Parisian service of internal medicine (author's transl)]	This study of 152 cases of tuberculosis in African Negro immigrants seen between 1972 and 1976 showed the predominance of especially pulmonary respiratory lesions and/or hilar ganglio-mediastinal lesions. The other lesions are frequent, i.e. the lesions of lymph nodes, bones, peritoneum, liver, pericardium ; the multiple lesions are likewise frequent. Smears and culture of sputum and/or biopsy of organs or tissues such as pleura, lymph node, liver and peritoneum are the diagnostic procedures. In spite of frequent resistance, treatment with isoniazid, rifampicin and ethambutol gave good results in high risk subjects, who are almost always allergic on arrival in France.
Epithelioid-cell granulomatous lymphadenitis in a case of parasitic infection in the cervical region (case report) (author's transl)]	A case is reported of epithelioid-cell granulomatous inflammation in the neck with fustula formation and cervical lymph-adenitis, resembling tuberculosis. After neck dissection, histological examination of the removed tissue revealed parasitic infection (organism not identified) as the cause.
The diagnosis and treatment of scrofula (mycobacterial cervical lymphadenitis).	Mycobacterial cervical lymphadenitis, or scrofula, may be caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis, or the atypical mycobacteria. It is important to distinguish between tuberculous cervical lymphadenitis and atypical mycobacterial cervical lymphadenitis, since medical and surgical treatment of each of these entities is different. The two types of scrofula are compared and contrasted. The appropriate treatment of each is discussed, and the complications of improper management are described.
Tuberculous lymphatic glands of the neck (author's transl)]	Nowadays, patients suffering from this disease are mostly elderly people, especially women. Antituberculous chemotherapy is used as therapy of choice. The rate of recurrence is very low. Only in rare cases surgery becomes necessary to remove glands containing caseous (necrotic) tissue. Those operations are difficult due to many crossing vessels and nervs (facial-, Hypoglossal- and Abducens nerv) and should only be performed experienced surgeons.
Tuberculosis of the retroperitoneal lymph nodes]	The authors present an extremely rare location of retroperitoneal lymph node tuberculosis, imitating in ultrasonography and computed tomography a neoplastic tumour of this region. The diagnostic difficulties associated with the described case are analysed.
Tuberculous lymphadenitis--the most frequent symptom of extra-pulmonary tuberculosis]	The work reports about the recently detected forms of tbc of skin and peripheral lymphnodes, which were confirmed in patients of the Dermatology Department of UTaRCH, Bratislava, Podunajské Biskupice in the period 1981-1989. From the total of 221 newly detected diseases the lymphadenitis or tbc cutis colliquativa occurred in 171 patients (77.4%). The lymphadenitis was confirmed in 140 patients (63.4%). Lymphadenitis, or scrofuloderma (tbc cutis colliquativa) most frequently inflicted the cervical subcutaneous lymphnodes--in 140 patients (81.9%). Unilateral infliction of lymphnodes prevailed. Incidence of these diseases was significantly higher in women (76%) than in men (24%). Within the process of differential diagnostics, in cases with inflicted peripheral subcutaneous lymphnodes it is necessary to take into consideration the possibility of their tuberculous etiology. (Fig. 1, Tab. 3, Ref. 7.).
Cases from the aerospace medicine residents' teaching file. Case #58. Scrofula.	A patient presenting with dysphagia was treated for bacterial lymphadenitis with broad spectrum antibiotics by an internist and an otolaryngologist. The clinical picture, histopathology, diagnosis, aeromedical disposition, and a brief, but pertinent historical background are described. The case was unique in that the diagnosis would have been missed had it not ultimately been for the timely intervention and advice of a senior preventive medicine physician. The physician recognized the high probability of extrapulmonary tuberculosis manifesting itself as scrofula. Tuberculosis cases in the United States have begun to climb in number and alertness to this infection is warranted.
Intramedullary spinal tuberculomas during treatment of tuberculous meningitis.	A case of multiple intramedullary spinal tuberculomas developing paradoxically during effective treatment of tuberculous meningitis is described. Serial MR imagings with Gd-DTPA enhancement studies showed initial homogeneous enhanced lesion representing myelitis or the early tuberculoma stage, which evolved to show ring enhancement with hypointense center later. Their appearance was similar to those described in brain tuberculoma. Gd-DTPA enhancement MR imaging is more sensitive than MR imaging without enhancement in demonstrating the lesions of tuberculoma and arachnoiditis. Antituberculous medication was effective with marked clinical improvement.
Diagnostic and therapeutic management of atypical mycobacterial infections in children.	A series of 12 children (9 girls, 3 boys) with non-tuberculous mycobacterial lymphadenitis was reviewed to define the most frequent presenting features, helpful diagnostic measures and optimal management. The mean age at diagnosis was 42 months and cervical nodes in the submandibular region were most commonly affected. In most of the children the diagnosis was made on the basis of a positive intradermal skin test with specific antigens for atypical mycobacteria. The diagnosis was confirmed in all but one case by histopathologic examination. Total excision of the affected gland was recommended as the therapy of choice in the patients treated.
Infectious cervical adenopathy]	Cervical adenopathy is often found on examination, but rarely causes clinical problems. If the adenopathy persists for a longer period then three to four weeks and no infectious causes are found, further investigations are needed, especially to exclude a malignancy. The chronic infectious adenopathies are discussed: mycobacterial (tuberculous and atypical), toxoplasmosis, cat-scratch disease and actinomycosis.
Tuberculosis caused by Mycobacterium africanum associated with involvement of the upper and lower respiratory tract, skin, and mucosa.	Cutaneous tuberculosis is rarely seen in industrialized countries and is usually caused by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. We report a case of cutaneous tuberculosis with bilateral nodular scleritis, nasal sinus invasion, and nasal septum perforation (confirmed by computed tomography scans of the sinuses), associated with pulmonary infiltrates and mediastinal adenopathy, in an African woman. Mycobacterium africanum was recovered from the sputum after 8 weeks of culture in Löwenstein-Jensen medium. To our knowledge, this is the first description of M. africanum associated with cutaneous tuberculosis and nasal sinus invasion.
Intrathoracic tuberculous lymphadenopathy: clinical and bronchoscopic features in 17 adults without parenchymal lesions.	Whilst intrathoracic lymphadenitis is a characteristic sign of primary tuberculosis in children, its presence without parenchymal lesions in adults is unusual and makes the diagnosis using noninvasive techniques difficult. The diagnostic role of bronchoscopy in adults with intrathoracic tuberculous lymphadenitis is reported.
Diagnostic value of different PCR assays for the detection of mycobacterial DNA in granulomatous lymphadenopathy.	Diagnosis of mycobacterial infection is made by assessment of characteristic histological features, staining of acid-fast bacilli, or agar culture. Recent advances in molecular biology have provided alternative approaches for the detection of mycobacteria, but only limited data are available dealing with the comparative evaluation of these methods. In order to determine the diagnostic applicability of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assays, 20 formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded lymph nodes with bacille Calmette-Guérin (BCG) lymphadenitis were investigated which in Löwenstein Jensen agar culture were either positive or negative (ten cases each); ten lymph nodes with non-specific lymphadenitis served as negative controls. Ziehl-Neelsen staining as well as three different PCR assays (including nested PCR), amplifying a specific sequence of the Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex or sequences of the 65 kD antigen gene, were performed. Positive culture was only obtained from lymph nodes which had been surgically removed within 20 weeks after vaccination (P < 0.001). In contrast to microscopic examination, which yielded no more information than agar culture, PCR detection of mycobacterial DNA was unrelated to culture findings. Combined use of different assays, as well as DNA extraction from at least three paraffin sections from each specimen, resulted in the detection of mycobacterial DNA in all lymph nodes with amplifiable DNA (18 out of 20 cases). Controls remained consistently negative. Thus, the combined use of different PCR assays is proposed as a rapid and sensitive technique for the detection of mycobacterial DNA in formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue.
Tuberculosis of the mandible in a child.	The incidence of notification of tuberculosis is increasing in the developed world. The disease has a variable mode of presentation and therefore diagnosis is not easy. We present an unusual case of tuberculosis involving the ramus of the mandible in a six-year-old boy and outline its management.
Pathogenetic aspect of the diagnosis of tuberculous lymphadenitis]	Based on their own experimental (55 rabbits) and clinical (114 patients) findings, the authors propose a new immunopathogenetic approach to diagnosing tuberculous lymphadenitis under the present-day conditions by taking into account the environmental situation. They describe an original enzyme immunoassay for lymph nodal extracts, which has yielded positive results: 88% sensitivity, 92% specificity, and 90% diagnostic efficiency.
Lymph node tuberculosis in France in non-immunosuppressed adults: current pathology]	Lymph node tuberculosis is more frequent in Africa or in HIV-infected patients.
Endobronchial tuberculosis presenting as an obstructive tumor in an HIV-1-positive patient. Apropos of a case and review of the literature]	A rare case report of endobronchial tuberculosis is reported in an HIV-1 positive patient of black African origin.
