Synthesis, conformation, and immunoreactivity of new carrier molecules based on repeated tuftsin-like sequence.	Sequential oligopeptides based on a pentapeptide (TKPKG) derived from tuftsin with different lengths were synthesized by stepwise solid phase methodology. These highly soluble oligomers were nontoxic on mouse spleen cells, and other biological data suggested that tuftsin-like properties were also presented. The (TKPKG)n (n=2,4,6,8) oligopeptides were not immunogenic; however, they increased sheep red blood cells (SRBC) antigen specific antibody response in mice, demonstrating their immunostimulatory effect. Chemotactic activity was also found on J774 monocyte cells, while MRC5 fibroblasts were chemotactically nonresponders to the tested forms of tuftsin. These oligomers showed unordered and flexible structure by CD measurements, confirmed by computer modeling studies indicating also a fairly good accessibility of the epsilon-amino group of each lysine residue. Data suggest that these new oligotuftsin derivatives can be considered as promising carriers for synthetic vaccine.
Locustakinin, a novel myotropic peptide from Locusta migratoria, isolation, primary structure and synthesis.	The isolated hindgut of the cockroach, Leucophaea maderae is a very efficient bioassay tool for the monitoring of certain structural types of insect myotropic peptides during HPLC purification. Using this detection system, a six residue peptide has been isolated from an extract of 9000 brain corpora cardiaca-corpora allata suboesophageal ganglion complexes of Locusta migratoria. Amino acid composition and sequence analysis combined with enzymatic digestion data established the structure of the novel peptide as Ala-Phe-Ser-Ser-Trp-Gly-amide. The chromatographic and biological properties of the synthetic peptide were the same as those of the native peptide, thus confirming structural analysis. The carboxy-terminal pentamer sequence is the active core of leucokinins II, V and VII and of achetakinin III (myotropic neuropeptides isolated from Leucophaea m. and from Acheta domesticus; Holman et al., 1990). Furthermore, the octapeptide leucokinin VII contains the novel sequence as its carboxy-terminal hexamer and Achetakinin V (AFHSWGamide) differs from it by one residue. This new peptide designated as locustakinin I (locusts) may therefore represent an evolutionary molecular link between leucokinin VII (cockroaches) and achetakinin V (crickets). Using synthetic locustakinin, physiological studies will be performed in the locust. In view of the known effects of leucokinins, locustakinin may be important in the stimulation of ion transport and inhibition of diuretic activity in Malpighian tubules. This study indicates that the AFXSWGamide sequence appears to have been well conserved and that members of this peptide family may be widely distributed among insects and posses a number of functions.
Changes in expression of the genes for chemokines, cytokines, and their receptors in response to selank and its fragments]	A study of the immunomodulating effect of selank showed that the total peptide and its fragment significantly change the expression of the genes for chemokines, cytokines, and their receptors in mouse spleen 6 and 24 h after administration of a single dose. Changes in the mRNA level of the majority of the genes under study were similarly observed after the administration of Gly-Pro, which was earlier identified as a selank pharmacophor, a minimum fragment with anitiviral activity. Pharmacological preparations based on endogenous regulatory peptides are studied intensely because they are the most promising class of drugs and have almost no side effects. The class includes selank, which is a synthetic analog of taftsin. Selank exerts anxiolytic and nootropic effects and, on the other hand, has pronounced antiviral properties.
Stimulation of oxygen metabolism in human blood phagocytes as affected by tuftsin-like peptides derived from the C-reactive protein molecule]	Effects of synthetic peptides analogous to those cleaved by proteolysis from human C-reactive protein (CRP) molecule on the level of oxygen metabolism of blood neutrophils and monocytes were studied. The effects of the peptides were compared with the effect of tetrapeptide Thr-Lys-Pro-Arg (tuftsin). CRP-derived peptides stimulated phagocyte oxygen metabolism as effectively as tuftsin. Their effect did not depend on the presence of a second stimulus (E. Coli LPS) in the medium. Neutrophils and monocytes responded to CRP-derived peptides differently.
