Evidence that expression of asialo-GM1 may be associated with cell activation. Correlation of asialo-GM1 expression with increased total cellular RNA and protein content in normal thymocyte and spleen cell populations.	The question of the biologic significance of asialo-GM1 (aGM1) expression by a limited number of cells including natural killer cells has been raised by the recent demonstrations that aGM1 is expressed by activated macrophages and activated T cells as well as the proliferating thymoblast and functionally mature subpopulations of thymus. The current report demonstrates that the expression of aGM1 on aGM1-negative lymphocytes can be induced by stimulation with mitogens under activating conditions. In addition, activation of the aGM1-negative tumor lines EL-4/F and P388D1/B1 under conditions that result in interleukin 2 or interleukin 1 production, respectively, also result in a significant increase in aGM1 expression by the tumor cell lines. Expression of aGM1 therefore appears to be associated with events occurring as a prelude to or during activation of effector function. Since the aGM1-negative cells do display sialylated versions of aGM1 which can be converted by neuraminidase treatment into serologically recognizable aGM1, it is suggested that the expression of aGM1 might reflect a change in the level of glycolipid sialylation rather than a change in membrane lipid composition per se. The small percentage of lymphocytes in normal, nonstimulated spleen and thymus populations which express significant levels of aGM1 were sorted and analyzed for total cellular protein and RNA. Increases in RNA synthesis and in total cellular protein and RNA above basal levels of resting lymphocytes are considered indicators of a G0----G1 transition. The aGM1-positive populations displayed a larger mean population size (as indicated both by higher forward light scatter and by higher total cellular protein content), and a higher mean population RNA content than the aGM1-negative populations. These data are discussed in the context of the hypothesis that the expression of aGM1 may be associated with early events in the activation of resting cells which prepare the cells for subsequent induction of effector function.
Immunolocalization of cytoskeletal elements in human mammary epithelial cells.	The expression of cytokeratins, vimentin and actin was analysed by immunohistochemical methods in primary cultures derived from breast carcinomas and non-malignant breast tissues, in tissue sections and in permanent breast cancer cell lines. A polyclonal antibody specific for cytokeratins bound to the majority of cells in all primary cultures. Cells positive for simple-epithelial cytokeratins were less frequent in primary cultures derived from malignant tissues than in cultures derived from non-malignant tissues. Established cell lines MCF-7 and BT-20 expressed high amounts of simple-epithelial cytokeratins. All outgrowing cells in primary cultures expressed high amounts of vimentin whereas vimentin expression in established carcinoma lines was variable but generally low. When paraffin sections of the original mammary tissues were analysed, epithelial cells were devoid of vimentin as expected. Anti-actin antibody decorated fine fibres in all cells of primary cultures in contrast to the diffuse staining found in established mammary carcinoma cell lines.
Purification and RNA binding properties of a C-type hnRNP protein from HeLa cells.	A protein of the C group, most likely C3 (Mr approximately 42,000, pI approximately 6, corresponding to IEF 48m,n of the HeLa protein catalogue (Celis, J. E., Bravo, R., Arenstorf, H. P., and LeStourgeon, W. M. (1986) FEBS Lett. 194, 101-109)), a minor hnRNP protein was purified to near homogeneity under nondenaturing conditions from 40 S heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles. Type C protein stoichiometrically disrupts the residual secondary structure of natural and synthetic RNAs, e.g. HeLa hnRNA, coliphage MS2 RNA, and poly(rU)-spermine, and decreases the Tm of duplex structures, e.g. poly[r(A + U)], by about 30 degrees C. Binding of the protein to polynucleotides is not highly cooperative and has a stoichiometry of one protein per about 10 nucleotides. Binding experiments with a variety of synthetic and natural poly- and oligonucleotides, including those containing consensus splice site sequences, indicate that the protein has a high affinity for G-rich and U-rich regions, G-rich regions being preferred. Base analogs I and T have affinities for the protein that are similar to G and U. There is little or no affinity for A- and C-rich regions. The presence of A residues in a G- or U-rich sequence does not interfere with binding while C-rich regions decrease or prevent the binding of the protein. The nucleotide specificity of type C protein, e.g. selective binding to an oligonucleotide from the 3' end of an intron, is discussed in relationship to the abundance of G and U and the relative scarcity of C residues in the processing signals in pre-mRNA.
Expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and amylase in a human parotid gland adenocarcinoma cell line in culture.	A neoplastic epithelial cell line initially established in culture from a human parotid gland adenocarcinoma grown in athymic nude mice with a BALB/c genetic background, which has an ultrastructure similar to that of the intercalated duct cell of the salivary glands, was examined for the expression of amylase and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP). The cultured cells were found by the peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) method to express amylase and ultrastructurally to have secretory granules showing positive immunoreaction with anti-amylase serum. In addition, the cells were found to secrete amylase into the culture medium. The expression of VIP in the cultured cells was observed by the PAP method, immunofluorescent staining method, or immunoelectron microscopy. Moreover, the presence of the polypeptide reactive to antibodies directed against VIP in the cultured cells was confirmed by immunoblotting and radioimmunoassay. These findings indicate that the cells proliferating in culture express both amylase and VIP.
Differentiation of cultured human keratinocytes: effect of culture conditions on lipid composition of normal vs. malignant cells.	Differentiation in keratinocytes can be experimentally modulated by changing the culture conditions. When cultured under conventional, submerged conditions, the extent of cellular differentiation is reduced in the presence of low calcium medium and is enhanced in medium containing physiologic calcium concentrations. Moreover, cultures grown at the air-medium interface or on a dermal substrate, or both, differentiate even further. Herein we report the effect of culture conditions on lipid composition in normal human keratinocytes and three squamous carcinoma cell (SCC) lines that vary in their capacity to differentiate as assessed by cornified envelope formation. Under submerged conditions, the total phospholipid content was lower, triglyceride content higher, and phospholipid:neutral lipid ratio lower in direct correlation to the degree of differentiation in these cultures. When grown at the air-medium interface on de-epidermized dermis, evidence of further morphologic differentiation was found only for well-differentiated SCC cells and normal keratinocytes. Similarly, the phospholipid content remained high in poorly differentiated SCC cells and it decreased modestly in well-differentiated SCC cells and markedly in normal keratinocytes. In all cell lines the triglyceride content was increased and cholesterol content decreased when compared to parallel submerged cultures, but these differences were most pronounced in well-differentiated cell lines. Acylceramides and acylglucosylceramides were found only in normal keratinocytes and only under the most differentiation-enhancing conditions. These studies demonstrate differentiation-related changes in the lipid content of both normal and neoplastic keratinocytes.
Labeling monoclonal antibodies and F(ab')2 fragments with the alpha-particle-emitting nuclide astatine-211: preservation of immunoreactivity and in vivo localizing capacity.	alpha-Particles such as those emitted by 211At may be advantageous for radioimmunotherapy since they are radiation of high linear energy transfer, depositing high energy over a short distance. Here we describe a strategy for labeling monoclonal antibodies and F(ab')2 fragments with 211At by means of the bifunctional reagent N-succinimidyl 3-(trimethylstannyl)benzoate. An intact antibody, 81C6, and the F(ab')2 fragment of Me1-14 (both reactive with human gliomas) were labeled with 211At in high yield and with a specific activity of up to 4 mCi/mg in a time frame compatible with the 7.2-hr half-life of 211At. Quantitative in vivo binding assays demonstrated that radioastatination was accomplished with maintenance of high specific binding and affinity. Comparison of the biodistribution of 211At-labeled Me1-14 F(ab')2 to that of a nonspecific antibody fragment labeled with 211At and 131I in athymic mice bearing D-54 MG human glioma xenografts demonstrated selective and specific targeting of 211At-labeled antibody in this human tumor model.
Expression of major histocompatibility complex on human medulloblastoma cells with neuronal differentiation.	Medulloblastomas are among the most common malignant brain tumors in children. These tumors consist of immature bipotential cells that may differentiate into neuronal and glial cells. We have established two cell lines for human medulloblastoma. One was derived from a 2-year-old girl with a cerebellar tumor (designated as ONS-76) and another from a 9-year-old girl with a metastatic tumor in the right frontal lobe (ONS-81). The in vitro population-doubling times were 18.6 and 19.2 h, respectively. Immunohistochemical studies showed that both cells possessed neurofilament protein (Mr 145,000 and 200,000) and neuron-specific enolase, without glial fibrillary acidic protein or S-100 protein. Human gamma-interferon enhanced class I major histocompatibility complex antigens on these medulloblastoma cells. Class II major histocompatibility complex antigens were also induced by human interferon-gamma. We here report for the first time the expression of class II major histocompatibility antigens, which play an important role in immune response, on human medulloblastoma cells with neuronal differentiation.
Morphological and biochemical evidence showing neuronal properties in AtT-20 cells and their growth cones.	AtT-20 cells, which were derived from a murine pituitary tumor and produce ACTH, have until now been considered to originate from pituitary corticotrophs. Here we show that AtT-20 cells constitutively express several neuronal features. First, AtT-20 cells develop cytoplasmic processes whose fine structure is essentially identical to that of neurites and neuronal growth cones. These growth cones (i) are characterized by an extensive membranous reticulum which is derived from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) since it contains immunoglobulin heavy chain binding protein, protein disulfide isomerase and glucose-6-phosphatase; (ii) are a major site of endocytosis; (iii) form cell-to-cell contacts resembling immature synapses. Second, AtT-20 cells, in contrast to pituitary corticotrophs, contain neurofilaments and express all three neurofilament polypeptides. They also contain the high molecular weight form of microtubule-associated protein 2 and tau protein. Third, AtT-20 cells express the neuron-specific phosphoprotein synapsin I which accumulates in the growth cones prior to contacts forming between growth cones and cells. Our results show that AtT-20 cells exhibit several properties of peptidergic neuronal cells and that the constitutive expression of a variety of these properties is compatible with continuous cell division.
Identification of tissue factor in two human pancreatic cancer cell lines.	We have studied the effects of two human pancreatic cancer and two human small cell lung cancer cell lines on clotting and platelet aggregation. Both pancreatic lines markedly shortened recalcification times and induced platelet aggregation. The lung cancer lines produced little shortening of recalcification times and no platelet aggregation. The clotting and aggregation activities of the pancreatic lines were further characterized. Recalcification times following the addition of cancer cell line material to plasmas deficient in factors VII and X were markedly prolonged, suggesting that the activity is due to tissue factor. Hirudin, an inhibitor of thrombin from the saliva of leeches, and rabbit polyclonal immunoglobulin G anti-bovine brain tissue factor inhibited both procoagulant and aggregation activities. Apyrase (an enzyme degrading ADP), diisopropylfluorophosphate (a serine protease inhibitor) and L-trans-epoxysuccinylleucylamido(4-guanidino)butane (a cysteine protease inhibitor) failed to inhibit these activities. Increasing concentrations of heparin inhibited platelet aggregation. Subcellular fractionation studies showed these activities to be localized to the plasma membrane. The association between mucin and the acceleration of clotting has been well described. The absence of mucin in electron micrographs of these pancreatic whole cells, membrane fractions, and shed microvesicles, as well as the failure of chaotropic agents (i.e., agents stripping material extrinsic to the cell membrane such as mucin) to abrogate this activity support these activities being intrinsic to the plasma membrane. These data strongly suggest that these activities are due to tissue factor which appears to be released as microvesicles in vitro. The release of tissue factor via microvesicles in vivo is one possible mechanism for the coagulopathy sometimes seen in patients with pancreatic carcinoma.
Characterization of muscarinic receptors: type M2 (subtype B) on neuro-2A neuroblastoma cells.	The binding of the nonselective muscarinic antagonist, [3H]N-methylscopolamine (NMS) to a mouse neuroblastoma cell line (Neuro-2A) and its coupling to the inhibition of adenylate cyclase were characterized. Specific [3H]NMS binding to membrane preparations was rapid, saturable, and of high affinity. Saturation experiments revealed a single class of binding sites for the radioligand. Competition experiments with the muscarinic drugs pirenzepine, AF DX 116, dicyclomine and atropine revealed that the muscarinic receptors present on these cells are predominantly of a single class, subtype B (M2). In addition, agonist binding demonstrated existence of a GTP-sensitive high affinity binding state of the receptors. Coupling of these muscarinic receptors to the adenylate cyclase system was investigated using the muscarinic agonist carbachol which was able to inhibit the prostaglandin (PGE1)-stimulated activation of adenylate cyclase. The agonist carbachol did not stimulate the formation of IP3 above basal levels, which indicated that the receptors are not coupled to phosphatidylinositol metabolism. In conclusion, we show that possessing predominantly one subtype of muscarinic receptor, the Neuro-2A cells provide a useful model for the investigation of the heterogeneity of muscarinic receptors and the relationship of subtype to the coupling of different effectors.
Radioreceptor assay for detergent-solubilized rat insulinoma growth hormone receptors.	Growth hormone receptors from a rat insulinoma cell line, RIN-5AH were solubilized in the non-ionic detergent Triton X-100. A radioreceptor assay based on polyethylene glycol precipitation of the growth hormone: receptor complex showed time-dependent and saturable hormone binding. The affinity in detergent solution for biosynthetic human growth hormone of approx. 6 ng/ml was found similar to that of intact RIN cells. The solubilization and receptor assay conditions described are useful for further characterization and purification of RIN cell growth hormone receptors, which might provide an initial insight into the molecular mechanism of the growth hormone effects on islet beta-cells.
Different contents of glycosaminoglycans in a human neoplastic salivary duct cell line and its subclone with a myoepithelial phenotype.	The glycosaminoglycans (GAG) biosynthesized by a neoplastic human salivary duct cell line, HSGc, and by its nontumorigenic subclone, HSGc-E1, having a myoepithelial-like phenotype, were examined by incorporation of [3H]-acetate into GAG. The rate of GAG radiolabeling in HSGc-E1 was significantly greater than that in HSGc. The radiolabeled GAG recovered from HSGc-E1 showed a distribution of 22-32% in the cells and 68-78% secreted into the medium, while the amounts of GAG in the cells and medium of HSGc were equal. Two-dimensional electrophoresis of GAG extracted from the cells demonstrated that HSGc-E1 contained a much greater amount of heparan sulfate (HS, 53.5% of total), while HSGc synthesized hyaluronic acid (HA, 17.5%), HS 38.8%, chondroitin sulfate (Ch-S, 27.6%) and dermatan sulfate (DS, 16.1%). Moreover, treatment of HSGc with sodium butyrate or dibutyryl cyclic AMP (each is a potent inducer of differentiation to myoepithelial-like cells) strongly enhanced GAG synthesis, while dexamethasone (an inducer of differentiation to a more functional duct epithelium) did not stimulate GAG synthesis. These findings suggest that biosynthetic changes in the GAG content of neoplastic salivary cells are associated with their myoepithelial differentiation.
Immunocytochemical characterization of extracellular matrix proteins expressed by cultured glioma cells.	The immunolocalization of type I, III and IV collagens and fibronectin in two rat glioma cell lines in vitro (BT4C and BT4Cn) is described. In addition, antibodies against denatured type I and III collagens were used to study breakdown products of native type I and III collagens. For the BT4C cells, the extracellular matrix expression in monolayer cultures and in multicellular tumor spheroids was compared. Type IV collagen was strongly expressed in BT4C tumor spheroids but was negative in the corresponding monolayer cultures. Denatured type I collagen was found both in monolayers and in spheroids of BT4C, suggesting either a rapid turnover (i.e., synthesis and immediate breakdown) of type I collagen or an altered collagen gene transcription. Both cell lines were negative for native type I and III and denatured type III collagen. Fibronectin was strongly expressed in both cell lines. Supporting the immunofluorescence data, the hydroxyproline content in the tumor spheroids was twice the amount found in monolayer cultures. Sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis combined with immunoblotting also verified the immunostaining experiments, showing that glioma spheroids and injected tumor cells have the potential for fibronectin and collagen production, given the appropriate growth conditions.
Induction of cells with a chondrocyte-like phenotype by treatment with 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 in a human salivary acinar cell line.	A clonal cell with an acinar cell phenotype, which was induced by 5-azacytidine treatment of a neoplastic human salivary intercalated duct cell line, was cultivated in the presence of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3. Morphological changes occurred; large cells that were polygonal or round in shape and had numerous vacuoles in their cytoplasm appeared in the treated cells, whereas the same concentration of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 did not affect the morphology of the parental cells. Major alterations, such as expression of type II collagen, alpha and beta chains of S-100 protein, and sulfated proteoglycans, were observed in these cells with a phenotype similar to chondrocytes. After the removal of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 from the culture, the treated cells returned rapidly to the phenotype of the untreated cells. These findings indicate that the reversible differentiation into chondrocyte-like cells of a human salivary acinar cell line occurs in growth medium containing 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
Limitations in the measurement of c-myc oncoprotein and other nuclear antigens by flow cytometry.	Recent developments in cell fixation, quantitative immunocytochemistry, and flow cytometry allow for the quantification of a variety of oncoproteins and other proliferation-associated antigens in both fresh and archival pathology material. These studies provide evidence that the standard tissue deparaffinization/dissociation technique significantly reduces the amount of c-myc oncoprotein remaining for analysis. To examine the factor(s) responsible for this observation, individual variables of the deparaffinization/dissociation technique including type of fixative, pepsin concentration, pepsinization times, pH, and exposure to organic solvents were examined in HeLa-S3 cells. The cells were stained with monoclonal antibodies either to the c-myc oncoprotein or to p105, a prolifera-tion-associated nuclear antigen. Protein-levels were measured on the basis of anti-c-myc or anti-p105 immunofluorescence by flow cytometry and were found not be affected significantly by type of fixative, exposure to organic solvents, acid pH solution, or mechanical disruption. Levels of c-myc oncoprotein were reduced by over 50%, however, when cells were exposed to 0.5% pepsin, whereas p105 was more resilient with only an approximately 7% reduction following the same treatment. Thus, careful examination of aspects of the deparaffinization/dissociation technique appears to be a necessary prerequisite for quantification of specific nuclear proteins from dissociated tissue specimens.
A novel insulin-binding protein with a molecular weight of 30,000 daltons.	Analysis of mouse Swiss/3T3 fibroblasts and rat hepatoma H35 cells using the affinity cross-linking method revealed multiple forms of 125I-insulin binding components (Mr greater than 300,000) in the absence of reducing agents. The same analysis, in the presence of reducing agents, revealed two major components (Mr = 125,000 and Mr = 30,000). The Mr = 125,000 component appeared to be the alpha-subunit of the high-affinity insulin receptor, whereas the small insulin-binding component of Mr = 30,000 was not a degradation product of the alpha-subunit but was apparently associated with the insulin receptor. We suggest that it is likely a novel component for regulating the function of insulin receptor.
Heterogeneity of glutathione content in human ovarian cancer.	Intracellular glutathione (GSH) has been shown to be one of the major factors modulating tumor response to a variety of commonly used anti-neoplastic agents. In this study the GSH contents of human ovarian tumors from primary biopsies, nude mouse xenografts, and in vitro cell cultures were compared. Pronounced intratumor cell-to-cell heterogeneity in GSH content was observed in primary patient biopsies when assessed using flow cytometry. For example, in an ascites biopsy from a newly diagnosed patient, a 5.6-fold difference in GSH concentration existed between the cell subpopulations with the 5% highest and 5% lowest GSH contents. Similar intratumor heterogeneity in GSH content was also evident in nude mouse xenografts. In addition, for a particular tumor line, the intertumor variations of GSH content among individual whole tumors were much less than the intratumor variation among slices from an individual tumor. Nude mouse xenografts of human ovarian cancer had GSH contents that were on average only slightly lower (30%) than those found in primary biopsies. In contrast, tumor cells grown as in vitro cultures, particularly those in exponential growth phase, had GSH contents considerably greater (1.3- to 3.5-fold) than those found in situ. Plateau phase cultures, however, had lower GSH contents and were more comparable to those observed in tumors in vivo. Overall, it may be concluded that in situations where GSH plays an important part in determining tumor response to a particular treatment, nude mouse xenografts may represent the most appropriate experimental model system.
Differences in glycosylation state of fibronectin from two rat colon carcinoma cell lines in relation to tumoral progressiveness.	We have investigated the biosynthesis and carbohydrate structure of fibronectin secreted by two rat colon carcinoma cell lines. The cell line Prob yields progressive tumors after s.c. injection in syngeneic BD IX rats while tumors developed by Regb cells disappear after 20 days. No difference was observed in the fibronectin biosynthesis from both cell lines; however, the glycosylation degree was higher in Regb than in Prob cells indicating probable differences in the posttransductional process. The analysis of the glycosylation nature shows that fibronectin doesn't bear O-linked carbohydrate chains. The fibronectin of progressive Prob cells is more sialylated than that of the regressive Regb ones. In addition, the tri- and tetraantennary glycans are more important in Prob, while the fucosylated triantennary glycans are three times higher in Regb cells. These differences in the glycosylation state of the fibronectins could explain their differential susceptibility to the proteases treatment. In fact, the low glycosylated fibronectin from the progressive Prob cells was more rapidly degraded by several proteases than that of regressive Regb cells. The identification of the specific sites of proteolytic cleavage by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis showed that the cell attachment domain as well as the collagen binding domain of Regb cell fibronectin are particularly protected against proteolytic degradation.
Differences in the flow and absorption cytometric DNA distributions of mouse hepatocytes and tumor cells.	We have determined the DNA content, the ploidy levels, and the percentages of different cell types present in small and large mouse mammary tumors as well as in young and old mouse livers by using absorption and flow cytometry. Absorption cytometry data indicated a significant increase in the proportion of transformed G0/G1 cells in the tumors as compared to that of the stromal G0/G1 cells with progressive tumor growth. This increase was not detected by flow cytometry. In both young and old mouse livers, a small number of cells of higher ploidy (8C and 16C) were detected by absorption cytometry but were not apparent in histograms obtained by flow cytometry. Furthermore, changes in the proportions of liver cells of different ploidy with age were apparent in absorption cytometry data but not in flow cytometry data. In one mouse liver experiment, a 6C cell peak appeared in the flow cytometry histogram, but a direct measurement of DNA content by absorption cytometry failed to detect cells with such a peak. We therefore believe that some caution may be warranted in the use of flow cytometry alone for evaluation of DNA distributions and of the proportions of different types of cells in complex solid tissues.
A rapid and sensitive flow cytometric method for the detection of multidrug-resistant cells.	Multidrug-resistant (MDR) cells are characterized by a defect in drug accumulation caused by activity of an energy-dependent rapid drug efflux pump. The action of this drug pump can be inhibited by specific agents, referred to as membrane transport modulating agents (MTMAs), resulting in a restoration of the intracellular drug accumulation. This paper presents a flow cytometric assay for the detection of MDR cells, which is based on the ability of these cells to respond to MTMAs. Daunorubicin net-uptake kinetics were measured of anthracycline-sensitive (A2780/S) and -resistant (A2780/R) human ovarian carcinoma cells in vitro. A2780/R cells accumulated significantly less (about a factor of 5) daunorubicin as compared to A2780/S cells. Addition of verapamil or cyclosporin A to A2780/R cells at steady-state daunorubicin uptake led to a dose-dependent increase in cellular daunorubicin accumulation. The sensitivity of the assay was determined by testing mixtures of A2780/S and A2780/R cells. Analysis of A2780/S cells contaminated with A2780/R cells showed that as few as 2.5% MDR cells could readily be detected in the mixture. In conclusion, this functional assay enables the detection of MDR cells in a heterogeneous cell suspension and is ideally suited for the study of the occurrence of typical MDR in human cancer.
Subpopulations of MCF7 cells separated by Percoll gradient centrifugation: a model to analyze the heterogeneity of human breast cancer.	Exponentially growing MCF7 human breast cancer cells were separated in Percoll gradients into six different fractions of increasing density (A to F). These fractions could be subcultured and were found to contain different cellular subpopulations as defined by the following criteria: ability to generate other cellular subpopulations; growth rate; DNA synthesis; and expression of estrogen receptors, ras oncogene-encoded protein p21, and carcinoembryonic antigen. One of the minor fractions (E), which contained about 5% of the total cell number, appeared to contain the stem cells, on the basis of the following criteria: (i) its ability to reproduce the other cellular subpopulations, (ii) its high rate of growth and DNA synthesis, and (iii) the inability of the other subpopulations to generate it. The most differentiated subpopulation appeared to be the densest one (F), since it was the slowest growing and appeared to be the end point of the other subpopulations.
Induction of malignant subcutaneous sarcomas in hamsters by a recombinant DNA containing BK virus early region and the activated human c-Harvey-ras oncogene.	Malignant undifferentiated sarcomas were induced in 11 of 15 (73.3%) newborn Syrian hamsters by s.c. inoculation of a recombinant DNA (pBK/c-rasA) containing BK virus (BKV) early region gene and the activated human c-Harvey-ras(c-Ha-ras) oncogene derived from T24 bladder carcinoma. The two genes inoculated independently as well as a recombinant DNA of BKV early region gene and normal human c-Ha-ras proto-oncogene were not tumorigenic. Tumor-derived cell lines propagated in culture were immortalized and had growth characteristics consistent with a fully transformed phenotype. Tumors and tumor cell lines showed tandem insertions of pBK/c-rasA in high copy number and expressed BKV- and c-Ha-ras-specific transcripts as well as BKV T-antigen and c-Ha-ras protein with a molecular weight of 21,000. We conclude that BKV DNA requires interaction with other oncogenic functions for tumorigenicity. These findings may be relevant to the role of BKV in human neoplasia, where cooperation or synergism between BKV and cellular oncogenes could occur as an aspect of the multifactorial process of carcinogenesis.
Expression of a cross-reactive antigen on the surface of human epidermoid carcinomas overproducing EGF-receptor shared with RSV-induced tumors]	Analysis based on the complement-dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) assays using syngeneic antiserum against a Rous sarcoma virus(RSV)-induced mouse tumor(CSA1M) showed that a cross-reactive antigen with a common tumor-associated cell surface antigen(TASA) of RSV-induced mouse tumors was shared with two human tumors A431 and MDA-468 overexpressing epidermal growth factor receptor(EGFR). The TASA, however, was not expressed on four human choriocarcinomas, a human lung cancer A2182, and human embryo fibroblasts HFF. Immunofluorescent studies demonstrated that A431 does not express a src gene product detected by anti-pp60src monoclonal antibody(MoAb). Two variant clones derived from A431 reducing number of ERFR (cl-15 and cl-16) have almost same growth rate and expression of transferrin receptor(Tf-R) in comparison with parental A431 cells. These clones, however, decreased the expression of TASA. Furthermore, CDC assays and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay(ELISA) revealed that A431 reduced the expression of the TASA by pretreatment of EGF, but not with insulin. All these findings indicate a close association between a cross reactive antigen with the TASA of RSV-induced tumors and EGFR.
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) induces expression of B-cell activation markers on in vitro infection of EBV-negative B-lymphoma cells.	A set of B-cell activation markers, including the EBV/C3d receptor [complement receptor type 2 (CR2) (CD21)], the 45-kDa lymphoblastoid cell-associated (Blast-2) antigen (CD23), and the B-cell restricted activation (Bac-1) antigen (which was recently identified as a potential B-cell growth factor receptor) can be turned on by infecting lymphoma cells that are genome negative for Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) with the B95-8 immortalizing strain of the virus. The nonimmortalizing EBV variant, strain P3HR-1, which possesses a deletion within the BamHI WYH region of the genome containing the coding sequence for the EBV-determined nuclear antigen 2, does not induce expression of these markers. Other lymphoblastoid cell-associated antigen markers can be activated by infection with either immortalizing or nonimmortalizing viruses. These results suggest that the immortalizing potential of EBV is correlated with its ability to induce expression of B-cell activation markers, which are suspected to play a major role in the physiological pathway leading to lymphoid cell proliferation. The viral genomic region deleted in the nonimmortalizing strain of EBV seems to be required for activation of some of these markers. Human lymphoma cell lines, such as those used in this study, can thus help identify the specific EBV genes involved in lymphoid B-cell proliferation and the mechanism of action of these genes.
Different sensitivity of beta 1- and beta 2-adrenergic receptors towards cyanogen bromide.	beta 1-Adrenergic receptors of turkey and beta 2-receptors of rat erythrocyte membranes were identified by (-)-[3H]-dihydroalprenolol ([3H]-DHA) binding. Treatment of these membranes with the reagent cyanogen bromide causes a concentration dependent decrease in the number of binding sites, without affecting the affinity of the tracer. Whereas inactivation of the beta 1-receptors is not affected by the pH (between pH 6 and 9), substantial inactivation of the beta 2-receptors takes place only under mild acidic conditions. The ability of CNBr (cyanogen bromide) to discriminate between both receptor subclasses at basic pH is also confirmed for rat heart membranes (beta 1-receptors), Friend erythroleukemia and S49 lymphoma cell membranes (beta 2-receptors).
Defective distal regulatory element at the 5' upstream of rat prolactin gene of steroid-nonresponsive GH-subclone.	The prolactin-nonproducing (PRL-) GH cell strains (rat pituitary tumor cells in culture). GH12C1 and F1BGH12C1, do not respond to steroid hormones estradiol or hydrocortisone (HC). However, the stimulatory effect of estradiol and the inhibitory effect of hydrocortisone on prolactin synthesis can be demonstrated in the prolactin-producing GH cell strain, GH4C1. In this investigation we have examined the 5' end flanking region of rat prolactin (rat PRL) gene of steroid-responsive, GH4C1 cells to identify the positive and negative regulatory elements and to verify the status of these elements in steroid-nonresponsive F1BGH12C1 cells. Results presented in this report demonstrate that the basel level expression of the co-transferred Neo gene (neomycin phosphoribosyl transferase) is modulated by the distal upstream regulatory elements of rat PRL gene in response to steroid hormones. The expression of adjacent Neo gene is inhibited by dexamethasone and is stimulated by estradiol in transfectants carrying distal regulatory elements (SRE) of steroid-responsive cells. These responses are not observed in transfectants with the rat PRL upstream sequences derived from steroid-nonresponsive cells. The basal level expression of the host cell alpha-2 tubulin gene is not affected by dexamethasone. We report here the identification of the distal steroid regulatory element (SRE) located between 3.8 and 7.8 kb upstream of the transcription initiation site of rat PRL gene. Both the positive and the negative effects of steroid hormones can be identified within this upstream sequence. This distal SRE appears to be nonfunctional in steroid-nonresponsive cells. Though the proximal SRE is functional, the defect in the distal SRE makes the GH substrain nonresponsive to steroid hormones. These results suggest that both the proximal and the distal SREs are essential for the mediation of action of steroid hormones in GH cells.
Cloning and characterization of a human ribosomal protein gene with enhanced expression in fetal and neoplastic cells.	Hepatocellular carcinoma is strongly associated with hepatitis B virus carrier patients who usually have HBV sequences integrated in the chromosomal DNA of liver cells. To assess the possible effects of HBV regulatory sequences (e.g., the enhancer) on expression of neighboring host genes we have screened for cellular genes that are both overexpressed and adjacent to integrated HBV sequences in hepatocellular carcinoma cells. The cloned cDNA for one such gene encodes a protein similar to the E. coli L-3 ribosomal protein which is thought to play a role in mRNA binding to the ribosome. The protein encoded by the cDNA localizes to the nucleolus and is also found in ribosomes; possibly it is the mammalian homologue of L-3 (MRL3). The expression of MRL3 is higher in colon carcinoma and lymphoma cell lines than in normal liver, placenta and diploid fibroblasts, and is also higher in fetal than in adult liver. Therefore, MRL3 overexpression seems to be a property of rapidly dividing cells and is not directly linked to oncogenesis.
Rearrangement and organization of T cell receptor gamma chain genes in human leukemic T cell lines.	Seventeen T cell leukemic lines, which are arrested at different stages of differentiation, were analyzed for gamma-chain rearrangement and expression using the constant region gene and representatives of the different families of V gamma chain genes. With the exception of the T cell line P30/OKUBO, which is arrested at the earliest stage (stage I), all the leukemic lines have rearranged their gamma-chain genes and transcripts can be detected in all but MOLT-4 and P30/OKUBO cell lines. Although V gamma 1 genes were rearranged and expressed in leukemic lines arrested at stages II, III and IV, V gamma 2 and V gamma 3 were only rearranged and expressed in cells at stage III (0/5 in stage II, 5/9 in stage III and 0/1 in stage 4). Thus, there may be a sequential usage of V gamma gene during human T cell ontogeny (although it is possible that this may just be a coincidence), similar to that which has been shown during murine ontogeny. Based on the rearrangement data, the genomic order of 5' V gamma 1-V gamma 2-V gamma 3-J-C 3' is proposed.
Identification and purification of a human immunoglobulin-enhancer-binding protein (NF-kappa B) that activates transcription from a human immunodeficiency virus type 1 promoter in vitro.	The enhancer-binding factor NF-kappa B, which is found only in cells that transcribe immunoglobulin light chain genes, has been purified from nuclear extracts of Namalwa cells (human Burkitt lymphoma cells) by sequence-specific DNA affinity chromatography. The purified NF-kappa B has been identified as a 51-kDa polypeptide by UV-crosslinking analysis. "Footprint" and methylation-interference analyses have shown that purified NF-kappa B has a binding activity specific for the kappa light chain enhancer sequence. The purified factor activated in vitro transcription of the human immunodeficiency virus type I promoter by binding to an upstream NF-kappa B-binding site.
Transcription of the dystrophin gene in human muscle and non-muscle tissue.	The gene that is defective in patients with Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy consists of about 60 short exons scattered along a gigantic DNA region that spans some 2 megabase pairs. The encoded protein, dystrophin, was recently characterized as a component of muscle intracellular membranes of low abundance. The dystrophin messenger RNA is difficult to study in both normal and pathological tissue specimens because it is large (14 kilobases) and scarce (0.01-0.001% of total muscle mRNA). We report here that efficient in vitro co-amplifications of the mRNAs of the dystrophin gene and of a reporter gene, aldolase A, by the polymerase chain reaction procedure enables us to obtain a quantitative estimate of the dystrophin gene transcript. A processed, transcribed segment was thus detected in 13 different human tissues. It ranged from 0.02-0.12% of total mRNA in skeletal muscle to 25,000 times less in lymphoblastoid cells.
Human HST1 (HSTF1) gene maps to chromosome band 11q13 and coamplifies with the INT2 gene in human cancer.	The human HST1 gene, previously designated the hst gene, and now assigned the name HSTF1 for heparin-binding secretory transforming factor in human gene nomenclature, was originally identified as a transforming gene in DNAs from human stomach cancers by transfection assay with mouse NIH 3T3 cells. The amino acid sequence of the product deduced from DNA sequences of the HST1 cDNA and genomic clones had approximately 40% homology to human basic and acidic fibroblast growth factors and mouse Int-2-encoded protein. We have mapped the human HST1 gene to chromosome 11 at band q13.3 by Southern blot hybridization analysis of a panel of human and mouse somatic cell hybrids and in situ hybridization with an HST1 cDNA probe. The HST1 gene was found to be amplified in DNAs obtained from a stomach cancer and a vulvar carcinoma cell line, A431. In all of these samples of DNA, the INT2 gene, previously mapped to human chromosome 11q13, was also amplified to the same degree as the HST1 gene.
Demonstration of a well-characterized tumor-associated antigen on melanoma cell surface.	We have isolated and characterized a melanoma tumor-associated antigen (TAA) from the spent culture medium of a melanoma cell line. Its presence has been detected in 72% of different melanoma specimens but not in normal tissues. Because tumor antigens may stimulate or perhaps block immune reactions to cancer cells, their presence on the cell surface may be a critical factor influencing tumor growth. Therefore, to define further the immunobiological characteristics of melanoma TAA, this antigen was investigated by membrane immunofluorescence. Serum from a melanoma patient known to have a high anti-TAA antibody titer was absorbed quantitatively with lymphoblastoid cells autologous to the target melanoma cells to remove non-anti-TAA antibodies. The absorbed serum was reacted with three cultured melanoma cell lines, UCLA-SO-10 (M10), UCLA-SO-14(M), and UCLA-SO-24 (M24). Of these cell lines, M10 and M14 are known to express the antigen as assessed by radioimmunoassay. Reaction of the antibody(s) to the antigen(s) on the melanoma cell surface was detected by fluorescein-conjugated goat anti-human IgG. The reactivity of the absorbed serum was inhibited by preincubation with purified melanoma TAA. These results clearly demonstrate that melanoma TAA is expressed on the cell surface of cultured melanoma cells.
Beta-2-microglobulin synthesis is increased during activation of human monocytes.	We have investigated the regulation of beta 2-microglobulin (beta 2-M) synthesis by monocytes. Recent interest in beta 2-M has developed since the discovery that this protein forms amyloid fibrils in patients undergoing long-term, chronic hemodialysis. The beta 2-M amyloidosis is linked to the greatly elevated levels of monomeric beta 2-M in their circulation. Since factors that govern beta 2-M release from plasma membranes are not known, we endeavored to evaluate beta 2-M release during monocyte activation. Utilizing a human monocyte-like cell line, U937, we studied the effect of bacterial toxin stimulation on levels of membrane, cell surface, and supernatant beta 2-M. We now present a novel method to purify beta 2-M, a solid-phase radioimmunoassay to measure soluble beta 2-M, and an ELISA to measure membrane beta 2-M. Using these methods we found that the levels of beta 2-M in the cell membrane or on the cell surface did not change during monocyte activation. However, activation did induce a significant increase in the concentration of beta 2-M in monocyte supernatants, indicating that beta 2-M synthesis by monocytes is increased during monocyte activation. These results suggest that monocyte activation by hemodialysis membranes may be a contributing factor to the observed increase in circulating beta 2-M levels.
A colorimetric liquid culture assay of a growth factor for primitive murine macrophage progenitor cells.	Synergistic factors from media conditioned (CM) by human placentas or the 5637 human bladder carcinoma cell line (SFH-HPCM and SFH-5637 respectively) have the ability to stimulate early progenitor cells in mouse bone marrow to form large colonies in agar cultures after 12-14 days, in the presence of CSF-1. Culture conditions have been examined and a quicker and more convenient liquid culture assay has been developed for this factor, using a tetrazolium salt to quantitate cell proliferation. The use of flat-bottomed vessels, high cell density, supra-optimal doses of CSF-1 or the addition of WEHI-3-CM to these cultures, all resulted in a decrease in the required incubation time. In combination, these modifications reduced the assay time to 4 days.
Quantitation of polyamines in cultured cells and tissue homogenates by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography of their benzoyl derivatives.	A rapid and simple method, originally described by Redmond and Tseng [J. Chromatogr., 170 (1979) 479] was applied to the analysis of di- and polyamines in cultured human tumour cells and human tumour xenografts. Optimization of the procedures and evaluation of the characteristic features of the assay are described. The (modified) procedure employs precolumn derivatization with benzoyl chloride, extraction of the derivatives by chloroform, separation by reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography under isocratic conditions and detection by ultraviolet absorbance measurement at 229 nm. The complete analysis was accomplished within 10 min per sample. The detection limit was ca. 1 pmol. The intra- and inter-assay coefficients of variation were 2.5-4.4% and 3.4-13.1%, respectively. The presence of well known inhibitors of polyamine biosynthesis, such as DL-alpha-difluoromethylornithine and methylglyoxal bis(guanylhydrazone), did not interfere with the assay, and disturbance by cyclohexylamine could be avoided by changing the polarity of the mobile phase. The method proved to be very suitable because it is rapid, simple, requires a minimum of sample pretreatment, and still provides sufficient sensitivity to quantitate polyamines in relatively small amounts of cells (10(5) cells) or tumour tissues (less than 1 mg), even after treatment with inhibitors of polyamine biosynthesis.
Electrophoretic analysis of four high molecular weight sialoglycoproteins produced by metastatic human colon carcinoma cells.	We have found that polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in 3% gels in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate is suitable for the separation of cellular glycoproteins having molecular weights ranging from 200,000 to 1,000,000. The gels secured on a rigid support (Gelbond) allow blotting techniques with lectins and antibodies for the detection of glycoproteins. Using these methods we have separated lysates of HT-29 human colon carcinoma cells and detected at least four distinct high molecular weight sialoglycoproteins having molecular weights of 900,000, 740,000, 560,000, and 450,000. The expression of the 900,000 component, as revealed by wheat germ agglutinin binding, was much higher in a subline of HT-29 cells established from liver metastases in a nude mouse than it was in the parental cells. The relative intensity of wheat germ agglutinin binding to these four sialoglycoprotein components differs depending upon their growth phase in vitro. These glycoproteins were also detectable by the binding of peanut agglutinin, provided the glycoproteins were previously treated in the gels with mild acid to remove the sialic acid from their carbohydrate chains, suggesting that mucin-type carbohydrate chains are present on these glycoproteins. The same set of glycoproteins can be detected by metabolic labeling of the cells with [3H]glucosamine in tissue culture. Very similar glycoprotein profiles are revealed by metabolic labeling of fresh colon carcinoma tissues with [3H]glucosamine in vitro.
B7, a B-cell-restricted antigen that identifies preactivated B cells.	After activation with antigen or mitogen, a number of cell surface proteins appear that are not expressed on resting B cells. To date, a number of B lineage restricted and associated activation antigens have been reported that appear at distinct intervals after in vitro activation. In this report, we describe a new B lineage restricted activation antigen (B7) that appears within 24 hr of in vitro stimulation. The expression of B7 antigen, which is detected on a minor subpopulation of B cells isolated from peripheral blood and lymphoid tissues, is strongly induced following stimulation with either anti-immunoglobulin or Epstein-Barr virus. In contrast, B7 was not detected on resting or activated T cells or monocytes. The B7 antigen was expressed on a subset of B cell lines and B cell neoplasms, but was not detected on leukemias and lymphomas of T cell or myeloid origin. B7 was distinguished from other B cell restricted and associated activation antigens by its unique pattern of expression on a variety of hemopoietic cell lines. The biochemical characterization of B7, that it is a single chain protein of 60 kDa, further distinguishes it from other B cell activation antigens. The functional importance of the B7 antigen was demonstrated when splenic B cells were fractionated into the B7+ and B7- populations. The peak of proliferation in response to anti-Ig, appeared earlier within the B7+ population. These studies suggest that B7 antigen identifies a subpopulation of B cells that are preactivated or primed in vivo, and have an accelerated response to subsequent activation via cross-linking of surface Ig.
Cell type specific expression of pre S 1 antigen and secretion of hepatitis B virus surface antigen. Brief Report.	Production of the three hepatitis B surface (HBs) proteins was studied in a hepatoma cell line (PLC/PRF/5) and two HBs antigen secreting cell lines (HeLa and mouse L-cells), which had been transfected by a viral genome isolated by molecular cloning from PLC/PRF/5 chromosomal DNA. The DNA used for transfection contains the HBs-specific promoters and the enhancer which regulate the expression of HBs genes in the transfected cell lines. All three cell lines expressed well the small and middle HBs protein, but the larger pre S 1 containing protein was barely detectable in the L-cell. In vivo growth of the transfected HeLa cell as nude mouse tumour increased pre S 1 expression and suppressed secretion of HBsAg.
Effect of natural beta-interferon on cell proliferation and steroid receptor level in human breast cancer cells.	The effect of natural beta-interferon (beta-IFN) on cell proliferation and steroid receptor level was investigated in CG-5 human breast cancer cell line. beta-interferon determines an appreciable diminution of cell growth, at concentrations ranging from 100 to 1000 IU/ml, which is enhanced when serum content of the culture medium is lowered. Low concentrations of beta-IFN (10-100 IU/ml) produce, after a 5-day treatment, an increase in estrogen receptors (ER) and progesterone receptors (PR). No variation of ER and PR levels is observed when beta-IFN is added directly to the cell homogenate before the assay. Our data suggest that beta-IFN could affect hormone sensitivity through a modification of ER and PR in neoplastic mammary cells.
Characterization of quantitative mucin variants from a human colon cancer cell line.	Colonic mucins are high molecular weight glycoproteins produced by goblet cells of colonic epithelium. Some studies have indicated that patients with colonic cancers that produce high amounts of mucin have a poorer prognosis than patients whose tumors produce low amounts of mucin. At present, however, the role of mucin in affecting the behavior of colon cancer cells is not well understood. To further elucidate the relationship between cellular mucin content and the growth characteristics and morphology of tumor cells, we utilized a replica plating technique and immunoscreening method to identify and purify variant clones of the human colon cancer cell line LS174T that produce high and low levels of mucin. This procedure enabled us to isolate two high mucin-containing variants (HM3 and HM7) and one low mucin-containing variant (LM12). These variants exhibited different morphology. Both high mucin variants tended to form cell aggregates and suspended cells with adjoining mucoid threads. The low mucin variant formed spread monolayers on the substratum with the formation of cell processes. Metabolic labeling using [3H]glucosamine demonstrated that high mucin variants synthesized 2-fold more mucin in the cell layer and secreted 3-fold more mucin into the culture medium than the low mucin variant. The colony-forming efficiency in semisolid agar for these variants positively correlated with their mucin content. High mucin variant cells when injected into athymic nude mice formed tumors 2-fold larger than those of the parental cells while the low mucin variant formed tumors only one-half as large as those of the parental cell line. These mucin variants should provide a useful model for understanding the biological behavior of mucinous colon cancer cells in vivo and in vitro.
