Safety analysis of ex vivo-expanded NK and NK-like T cells administered to cancer patients: a phase I clinical study.	The chimeric state after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation provides a platform for adoptive immunotherapy using donor-derived immune cells. The major risk with donor lymphocyte infusions (DLIs) is the development of graft-versus-host disease (GvHD). Development of new DLI products with antitumor reactivity and reduced GvHD risk represents a challenging task in cancer immunotherapy. Although natural killer (NK) and NK-like T cells are promising owing to their antitumor activity, their low concentrations in peripheral blood mononuclear cells reduces their utility in DLIs. We have recently developed a system that allows expansion of clinical-grade NK and NK-like T cells in large numbers. In this study, the safety of donor-derived long-term ex vivo-expanded human NK and NK-like T cells given as DLIs was investigated as immunotherapy for cancer in five patients following allogeneic stem cell infusion. Infusion of the cells was safe whether administered alone or with IL-2 subcutaneously. No signs of acute GvHD were observed. One patient with hepatocellular carcinoma showed markedly decreased serum alpha-fetoprotein levels following cell infusions. These findings suggest that the use of ex vivo-expanded NK and NK-like T cells is safe and appears an attractive approach for further clinical evaluation in cancer patients.
CD3+/CD16+CD56+ cell numbers in peripheral blood are correlated with higher tumor burden in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma.	Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma is the commonest histological type of malignant lymphoma, and remains incurable in many cases. Developing more efficient immunotherapy strategies will require better understanding of the disorders of immune responses in cancer patients. NKT (natural killer-like T) cells were originally described as a unique population of T cells with the co-expression of NK cell markers. Apart from their role in protecting against microbial pathogens and controlling autoimmune diseases, NKT cells have been recently revealed as one of the key players in the immune responses against tumors. The objective of this study was to evaluate the frequency of CD3(+)/CD16(+)CD56(+) cells in the peripheral blood of 28 diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients in correlation with clinical and laboratory parameters. Median percentages of CD3(+)/CD16(+)CD56(+) were significantly lower in patients with DLBCL compared to healthy donors (7.37% vs. 9.01%, p = 0.01; 4.60% vs. 5.81%, p = 0.03), although there were no differences in absolute counts. The frequency and the absolute numbers of CD3(+)/CD16(+)CD56(+) cells were lower in advanced clinical stages than in earlier ones. The median percentage of CD3(+)/CD16(+)CD56(+) cells in patients in Ann Arbor stages 1-2 was 5.55% vs. 3.15% in stages 3-4 (p = 0.02), with median absolute counts respectively 0.26 G/L vs. 0.41 G/L (p = = 0.02). The percentage and absolute numbers of CD3(+)/CD16(+)CD56(+) cells were significantly higher in DL -BCL patients without B-symptoms compared to the patients with B-symptoms, (5.51% vs. 2.46%, p = 0.04; 0.21 G/L vs. 0.44 G/L, p = 0.04). The percentage of CD3(+)/CD16(+)CD56(+) cells correlated adversely with serum lactate dehydrogenase (R= -445; p 〈 0.05) which might influence NKT count. These figures suggest a relationship between higher tumor burden and more aggressive disease and decreased NKT numbers. But it remains to be explained whether low NKT cell counts in the peripheral blood of patients with DLBCL are the result of their suppression by the tumor cells, or their migration to affected lymph nodes or organs.
Vaccination with irradiated tumor cells pulsed with an adjuvant that stimulates NKT cells is an effective treatment for glioma.	The prognosis for patients with glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) remains extremely poor despite recent treatment advances. There is an urgent need to develop novel therapies for this disease.
Decreased expression of interleukin-36α correlates with poor prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma.	Interleukin-36α (IL-36α) has been found to have a prominent role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory disorders; however, little is known about the role of IL-36α in cancer. In this study, we investigated the expression, prognostic value, and the underlying antitumor mechanism of IL-36α in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). From immunohistochemistry analysis, IL-36α expression was lower in poorly differentiated HCC cells. In clinicopathological analysis, low IL-36α expression significantly correlated with tumor size, histological differentiation, tumor stage, and vascular invasion, and low intratumoral IL-36α expression had significantly worse overall survival rates and shorter disease-free survival rates. Moreover, intratumoral IL-36α expression was an independent risk factor for overall survival. Consecutive sections were used to detect CD3+, CD8+, and CD4+ tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TILs), and we found that high-IL-36α-expressing tumor tissues exhibited a significantly higher proportion of intratumoral CD3+ and CD8+ TILs, but not CD4+ TILs. Our in vitro model confirmed that supernatant from IL-36α-overexpressing human HCC cells had an increased capacity to recruit CD3+ and CD8+ T cells. Consistently, mouse HCC cells engineered to overexpress IL-36α demonstrated markedly delayed growth in vivo, as well as higher levels of intratumoral CD3+ and CD8+ TILs, compared with control mice. In vitro chemotaxis analysis also showed that mouse HCC cells overexpressing IL-36α could recruit more number of CD3+ and CD8+ T cells. These results show that IL-36α expression may play a pivotal role in determining the prognosis of patients with HCC, which we attribute to the activation of adaptive T cell immunity, especially CD8+ T cell immune response.
B-1 cells and concomitant immunity in Ehrlich tumour progression.	Concomitant immunity is a phenomenon in which a tumour-bearing host is resistant to the growth of an implanted secondary tumour. Metastases are considered to be secondary tumours that develop spontaneously during primary tumour growth, suggesting the involvement of concomitant immunity in controlling the rise of metastases. It has been demonstrated that B-1 cells, a subset of B-lymphocytes found predominantly in pleural and peritoneal cavities, not only increase the metastatic development of murine melanoma B16F10, but also are capable of differentiating into mononuclear phagocytes, modulating inflammatory responses in wound healing, in oral tolerance and in Paracoccidiose brasiliensis infections. Here, we studied B-1 cells' participation in concomitant immunity during Ehrlich tumour progression. Our results show that B-1 cells obtained from BALB/c mice previously injected with Ehrlich tumour in the footpad were able to protect BALB/c and BALB/Xid mice against Ehrlich tumour challenge. In addition, it was demonstrated that BALB/Xid show faster tumour growth and have lost concomitant immunity, and that this state can be partially restored by reconstituting these animals with B-1 cells. However, further researches are required to establish the mechanism involving B-1 cells in Ehrlich tumour growth. 
