The Ectodysplasin and NFkappaB signalling pathways in odontogenesis.	Hypohidrotic ectodermal dysplasia (HED) is a congenital disorder affecting organs of ectodermal origin including teeth, hair and sweat glands. Defects in Ectodysplasin (tabby), Edar (downless) and Edar associated death domain (Edaradd) (crinkled) cause HED in both humans and mice. Ectodysplasin is a tumour necrosis factor (TNF) superfamily member whose downstream signalling is transduced by the inhibitor of kappaB kinase (IKK) complex and inhibitors of kappaB (IkappaB) to activate the transcription factor NFkappaB. NFkappaB signalling is involved in a wide range of cellular processes and at each stage the different family members must be tightly regulated for each function. Recent data have demonstrated the importance of this signalling pathway in odontogenesis, particularly in the formation of cusps. Here we review recent advances in our understanding of Ectodysplasin/NFkappaB signalling in tooth development and in particular the central role of the IKK complex.
Spatial and temporal distribution of the traf4 genes during zebrafish development.	The tumor necrosis factor-associated factor 4 (TRAF4) is a particular member of the TRAF protein family since it is not involved in the Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) and Interleukin-1 (IL-1) signaling pathways. In the present study, we cloned two zebrafish orthologs of the human traf4, traf4a and traf4b, which are the first TRAFs described in zebrafish. During embryogenesis, traf4b expression is present in a weak ubiquitous manner. In contrast, traf4a exhibits a highly specific expression pattern in the sensorial and neural cells, and the somites of embryos. This gene is tightly regulated during embryogenesis. Together, our data show that traf4 is conserved during evolution, and traf4a is the zebrafish ortholog of traf4.
The adaptor protein TRADD activates distinct mechanisms of apoptosis from the nucleus and the cytoplasm.	TNFR1 associated death domain protein (TRADD) contains an N-terminal TRAF binding domain and a C-terminal death domain along with nuclear import and export sequences that cause shuttling between the cytoplasm and nucleus. The death domain of TRADD contains the nuclear import sequence and expression of the core death domain (nuclear TRADD) results in exclusive nuclear localization and activation of a distinct apoptotic pathway. Cytoplasmic TRADD activates apoptosis through Fas-associated death domain protein (FADD) and caspase-8 activation that was blocked by caspase inhibitors or dominant-negative FADD. These inhibitors did not inhibit death induced by nuclear TRADD, which could only be inhibited by combining caspase inhibitors and a serine protease inhibitor. The pathway activated by nuclear TRADD requires caspase-9 catalytic activity. However, apoptosis activating factor deficiency confers only partial protection from death. This pathway represents an alternate means by which TRADD can regulate cell death independently of FADD and caspase-8 that occurs from the nucleus rather than the cytoplasm.
Mechanisms of neurotrophin receptor signalling.	Regulation of cell survival decisions and neuronal plasticity by neurotrophins are mediated by two classes of receptors, Trks (tropomyosin receptor kinases) and p75, the first discovered member of the tumour necrosis factor receptor superfamily. The p75 receptor participates with the TrkA receptor in the formation of high-affinity nerve growth factor-binding sites to promote survival under limiting concentrations of neurotrophins. Activation of Trk receptors leads to increased phosphorylation of Shc (Src homology and collagen homology), phospholipase C-gamma and novel adaptor molecules, such as the ARMS (ankyrin-rich membrane spanning)/Kidins220 protein. Small ligands that interact with G-protein-coupled receptors can also activate Trk receptor kinase activity. Transactivation of Trk receptors and their downstream signalling pathways raise the possibility of using small molecules to elicit neuroprotective effects for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases. Like amyloid precursor protein and Notch, p75 is a substrate for gamma-secretase cleavage. The p75 receptor undergoes an alpha-secretase-mediated release of the extracellular domain followed by a gamma-secretase-mediated intramembrane cleavage. Cleavage of p75 may represent a general mechanism for transmitting signals as an independent receptor and as a co-receptor for other signalling systems.
The Cavβ subunit prevents RFP2-mediated ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation of L-type channels.	It is well established that the auxiliary Cavβ subunit regulates calcium channel density in the plasma membrane, but the cellular mechanism by which this occurs has remained unclear. We found that the Cavβ subunit increased membrane expression of Cav1.2 channels by preventing the entry of the channels into the endoplasmic reticulum-associated protein degradation (ERAD) complex. Without Cavβ, Cav1.2 channels underwent robust ubiquitination by the RFP2 ubiquitin ligase and interacted with the ERAD complex proteins derlin-1 and p97, culminating in targeting of the channels to the proteasome for degradation. On treatment with the proteasomal inhibitor MG132, Cavβ-free channels were rescued from degradation and trafficked to the plasma membrane. The coexpression of Cavβ interfered with ubiquitination and targeting of the channel to the ERAD complex, thereby facilitating export from the endoplasmic reticulum and promoting expression on the cell surface. Thus, Cavββ regulates the ubiquitination and stability of the calcium channel complex.
The viral TRAF protein (ORF111L) from infectious spleen and kidney necrosis virus interacts with TRADD and induces caspase 8-mediated apoptosis.	Infectious spleen and kidney necrosis virus (ISKNV) is the type species of the Megalocytivirus genus of the Iridoviridae family. It causes a serious and potentially pandemic disease in wild and cultured fishes. ISKNV infection induces evident apoptosis in mandarin fish (Siniperca chuatsi) and zebrafish (Danio renio). However, the mechanism is still unknown. After a genome-wide bioinformatics analysis of ISKNV-encoded proteins, the ISKNV open reading frame 111L (ORF111L) shows a high similarity to the tumour necrosis factor receptor-associated factor (TRAF) encoded by fish, mice and mammals, which is essential for apoptotic signal transduction. Moreover, ORF111L was verified to directly interact with the zebrafish TNF receptor type 1 associated death domain protein (TRADD). A recombinant plasmid containing the DNA sequence of ORF111L was constructed and microinjected into zebrafish embryos at the 1-2 cell stage to investigate its biological function in vivo. ORF111L overexpression in the embryos resulted in increased apoptosis. ORF111L-induced apoptosis was clearly associated with significant caspase 8 upregulation and activation. The knockdown of zebrafish caspase 8 expression effectively blocked the apoptosis induced by ORF111L overexpression. Significantly, ORF111L overexpression resulted in much stronger effect on caspase 8 and caspase 3 upregulation compared to zebrafish TRAF2. This is the first report of a viral protein similar to TRAF that interacts with TRADD and induces caspase 8-mediated apoptosis, which may provide novel insights into the pathogenesis of ISKNV infection.
Common variants of ZNF750, RPTOR and TRAF3IP2 genes and psoriasis risk.	Psoriasis vulgaris is a genetically heterogenous disease with unclear molecular background. We assessed the association of psoriasis and its main clinical phenotypes with common variants of three potential psoriasis susceptibility genes: ZNF750, RPTOR and TRAF31P2. We genotyped 10 common variants in a cohort of 1,034 case-control individuals using Taqman genotyping assays and sequencing. Minor alleles of all four TRAF3IP2 variants were more frequent among cases. The strongest, significant association was observed for rs33980500 (OR = 2.5, p = 0.01790). Minor allele of this SNP was always present in two haplotypes found to be associated with increased psoriasis risk: rs13196377_G + rs13190932_G + rs33980500_T + rs13210247_A (OR = 2.7, p = 0.0054) and rs13196377_A + rs13190932_A + rs33980500_T + rs13210247_G (OR = 1.8, p = 0.0008). Analyses of clinically relevant phenotypes revealed association of rs33980500 with pustular psoriasis (OR = 1.2, p = 0.0109). We observed significant connection of severity of cutaneous disease with variation at rs13190932 and suggestive with three remaining TRAF3IP2 SNPs. Another positive associations were found between age of onset and familial aggregation of disease: smoking and younger age of onset, smoking and occurrence of pustular psoriasis, nail involvement and arthropatic psoriasis, nail involvement and more severe course of psoriasis. We found no statistically significant differences in the prevalence of the examined variants of RPTOR and ZNF750 genes among our cases and controls. We have replicated the association of TRAF3IP2-_rs33980500 variant with the susceptibility to psoriasis. We have found new associations with clinically relevant subphenotypes such as pustular psoriasis or moderate-to-severe cases. We ascertain no connection of RPTOR and ZNF750 variants with psoriasis or its subphenotypes. 
Costimulation via the tumor-necrosis factor receptor superfamily couples TCR signal strength to the thymic differentiation of regulatory T cells.	Regulatory T cells (Treg cells) express members of the tumor-necrosis factor (TNF) receptor superfamily (TNFRSF), but the role of those receptors in the thymic development of Treg cells is undefined. We found here that Treg cell progenitors had high expression of the TNFRSF members GITR, OX40 and TNFR2. Expression of those receptors correlated directly with the signal strength of the T cell antigen receptor (TCR) and required the coreceptor CD28 and the kinase TAK1. The neutralization of ligands that are members of the TNF superfamily (TNFSF) diminished the development of Treg cells. Conversely, TNFRSF agonists enhanced the differentiation of Treg cell progenitors by augmenting responsiveness of the interleukin 2 receptor (IL-2R) and transcription factor STAT5. Costimulation with the ligand of GITR elicited dose-dependent enrichment for cells of lower TCR affinity in the Treg cell repertoire. In vivo, combined inhibition of GITR, OX40 and TNFR2 abrogated the development of Treg cells. Thus, expression of members of the TNFRSF on Treg cell progenitors translated strong TCR signals into molecular parameters that specifically promoted the development of Treg cells and shaped the Treg cell repertoire. 
