Genetic identity of YOY bluefin tuna from the eastern and western Atlantic spawning areas.	We used 320 young-of-the-year (YOY) specimens of the highly migratory and overfished Atlantic bluefin tuna, Thunnus thynnus, Linnaeus 1758, to evaluate the hypothesis that Atlantic bluefin tuna comprises 2 stocks with spawning grounds in the Gulf of Mexico and in the Mediterranean Sea. Significant genetic differentiation at 8 nuclear microsatellite loci (F(ST) = 0.0059, P = 0.0005) and at the mitochondrial control region (Phi(ST) = 0.0129, P = 0.0139) was detected among YOY Atlantic bluefin tuna captured on spawning grounds in the Gulf of Mexico (n = 40) versus the western (n = 255) and eastern (n = 25) basins of the Mediterranean Sea. The genetic divergence among spawning populations, combined with the extensive trans-Atlantic movements reported for juvenile and adult Atlantic bluefin tuna, indicates a high degree of spawning site fidelity. Recognition of genetically distinct populations necessitates independent management of Atlantic bluefin tuna on spawning grounds and warrants evaluation of the level of mixing of populations on feeding grounds. The genetic pattern might not have been detected unless juvenile specimens or actively spawning adults had been sampled.
Differentiation of five tuna species by a multiplex primer-extension assay.	A novel methodology based on analysis of mtDNA-cytb diagnostic sites was performed to discriminate four closely related species of Thunnus (Thunnus alalunga, Thunnus albacares, Thunnus obesus and Thunnus thynnus) and one species of Euthynnus (Katsuwonus pelamis) genus in raw and canned tuna. The primers used in the preliminary PCR designed in well conserved region upstream and downstream of the diagnosis sites successfully amplified a 132bp region from the cytb gene of all the species taken into consideration. The sites of diagnosis have been interrogate simultaneously using a multiplex primer-extension assay (PER) and the results were confirmed by fragment sequencing. The applicability of the multiplex PER assay to commercial canned tuna samples was also demonstrated. The proposed test could be useful for detection of fraud and for seafood traceability.
Comparative study of liver vitellogenin gene expression and oocyte yolk accumulation in wild and captive Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus L.).	The sequence of vitellogenin A (VgA) and vitellogenin B (VgB) cDNAs in Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus L.) were determined, and vitellogenin expression levels in the liver and oocyte yolk accumulation were compared in wild and captive-reared individuals. Liver and ovary samples were taken from 31 individuals reared experimentally in three commercial Atlantic bluefin tuna fattening sites in the Mediterranean Sea and from 33 wild individuals caught by commercial traps during the fish's migration towards their Mediterranean spawning grounds. The total length of VgA cDNA was 5585 nucleotides and that of VgB was 5267 nucleotides. The identity and similarity between deduced amino acid sequences of VgA and VgB were 60% and 78%, respectively. The Atlantic bluefin tuna VgA and VgB amino acid sequences have high similarities with those of other teleost fishes. Relative levels of VgA and VgB mRNAs were low in April, increased significantly during the reproductive period in May and June, and declined in July. There was a trend towards higher relative levels of VgA and VgB mRNAs in captive fish compared to wild individuals during the reproductive period. The surface occupied by eosinophilic yolk granules in fully vitellogenic oocytes, as well as the frequency of oocytes in late vitellogenesis, was significantly higher in captive compared to wild individuals. The study suggests that the experimental conditions under which Atlantic bluefin tuna individuals were reared allowed the occurrence of normal vitellogenesis, based on gene expression of VgA and VgB in the liver and yolk accumulation in the oocytes. The higher yolk accumulation and frequency of vitellogenic oocytes observed in the ovaries of captive fish suggest that improvements in feeding practices may result in an improved vitellogenic process.
Expression of vitellogenin receptor gene in the ovary of wild and captive Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus).	The cDNA sequences of vitellogenin receptor proteins (VgR(+) and VgR(-)), containing or lacking the O-linked sugar domain, were determined in Atlantic bluefin tuna (Thunnus thynnus L.). VgR(-) gene expression in the ovary was compared in captive-reared and wild Atlantic bluefin tuna during the reproductive cycle. Gonad samples from adult fish were sampled from 2008 to 2010 from stocks reared in captivity at different commercial fattening operations in the Mediterranean Sea and from wild individuals caught either by traditional tuna traps during their migration towards the spawning grounds in the Mediterranean Sea or by the long-line artisanal fishery. In addition, juvenile male and female Atlantic bluefin tuna were sampled from a farming facility, to obtain baseline information and pre-adulthood amounts of VgR(-). The total length of VgR(+) cDNA was 4006 nucleotides (nt) and that of VgR(-) was 3946 nt. Relative amounts of VgR(-) were greater in juvenile females and in those adults having only previtellogenic oocytes (119 ± 55 and 146 ± 26 folds more than juvenile males, respectively). Amounts of VgR(-) were less in individuals with yolked oocytes (ripening stage, May-June) and increased after spawning in July (92 ± 20 and 113 ± 13 folds more than juvenile males in ripening and post-spawning fish, respectively). These data suggest that regulation of VgR(-) is not under oestrogen control. During the ripening period, greater VgR(-) gene expression was observed in wild fish than in fish reared in captivity, possibly because of (a) differences in water temperature exposure and/or energy storage, and/or (b) an inadequate diet in reared Atlantic bluefin tuna.
Single nucleotide polymorphism discovery in albacore and Atlantic bluefin tuna provides insights into worldwide population structure.	The optimal management of the commercially important, but mostly over-exploited, pelagic tunas, albacore (Thunnus alalunga Bonn., 1788) and Atlantic bluefin tuna (BFT; Thunnus thynnus L., 1758), requires a better understanding of population structure than has been provided by previous molecular methods. Despite numerous studies of both species, their population structures remain controversial. This study reports the development of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in albacore and BFT and the application of these SNPs to survey genetic variability across the geographic ranges of these tunas. A total of 616 SNPs were discovered in 35 albacore tuna by comparing sequences of 54 nuclear DNA fragments. A panel of 53 SNPs yielded FST values ranging from 0.0 to 0.050 between samples after genotyping 460 albacore collected throughout the distribution of this species. No significant heterogeneity was detected within oceans, but between-ocean comparisons (Atlantic, Pacific and Indian oceans along with Mediterranean Sea) were significant. Additionally, a 17-SNP panel was developed in Atlantic BFT by cross-species amplification in 107 fish. This limited number of SNPs discriminated between samples from the two major spawning areas of Atlantic BFT (FST  = 0.116). The SNP markers developed in this study can be used to genotype large numbers of fish without the need for standardizing alleles among laboratories. 
Effects of temperature acclimation on Pacific bluefin tuna (Thunnus orientalis) cardiac transcriptome.	Little is known about the mechanisms underpinning thermal plasticity of vertebrate hearts. Bluefin tuna hearts offer a unique model to investigate processes underlying thermal acclimation. Their hearts, while supporting an endothermic physiology, operate at ambient temperature, and are presented with a thermal challenge when migrating to different thermal regimes. Here, we examined the molecular responses in atrial and ventricular tissues of Pacific bluefin tuna acclimated to 14°C, 20°C, and 25°C. Quantitative PCR studies showed an increase in sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) ATPase gene expression with cold acclimation and an induction of Na(+)/Ca(2+)-exchanger gene at both cold and warm temperatures. These data provide evidence for thermal plasticity of excitation-contraction coupling gene expression in bluefin tunas and indicate an increased capacity for internal Ca(2+) storage in cardiac myocytes at 14°C. Transcriptomic analysis showed profound changes in cardiac tissues with acclimation. A principal component analysis revealed that temperature effect was greatest on gene expression in warm-acclimated atrium. Overall data showed an increase in cardiac energy metabolism at 14°C, potentially compensating for cold temperature to optimize bluefin tuna performance in colder oceans. In contrast, metabolic enzyme activity and gene expression data suggest a decrease in ATP production at 25°C. Expression of genes involved in protein turnover and molecular chaperones was also decreased at 25°C. Expression of genes involved in oxidative stress response and programmed cell death suggest an increase in oxidative damage and apoptosis at 25°C, particularly in the atrium. These findings provide insights into molecular processes that may characterize cardiac phenotypes at upper thermal limits of teleosts.
Tracing phylogeny through proteins of the layers of the eye lens nucleus.	1. In accordance with the concept that ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, it was hypothesized that the proteins in the eye lens nucleus increase in antiquity with depth of layer and so can be used to reconstruct the phylogenetic past. 2. This hypothesis was tested by analyzing electrophoretic patterns of proteins from solubilized nuclear lens layers of three tuna species with well-studied phylogenies. The tuna species are the albacore, Thunnus alalunga; yellowfin, T. albacares; and skipjack, Katsuwonus pelamis. 3. The electrophoretic patterns fitted a scheme that is in agreement with major phylogenetic beliefs about these species. Additionally, the patterns seemed to indicate that (a) the skipjack diverged later (although to a lesser degree) from a common ancestor than did the other two tuna species, and (b) the albacore is more closely related to the skipjack than is the yellowfin. 4. It is concluded that electrophoretic analysis of proteins from nuclear lens layers is a promising new tool for tracing phylogenetic relationships.
