Toxicogenomics of endoplasmic reticulum stress inducer tunicamycin in the small intestine and liver of Nrf2 knockout and C57BL/6J mice.	This objective of this study was to investigate the toxicogenomics and the spatial regulation of global gene expression profiles elicited by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress inducer tunicamycin (TM) in mouse small intestine and liver as well as to identify TM-modulated nuclear factor-E2-related factor 2 (Nrf2)-dependent genes. Gene expression profiles were analyzed using 45,000 Affymetrix mouse genome 430 2.0 array and GeneSpring 7.2 software. Microarray results were validated by quantitative real-time reverse transcription-PCR analyses. Clusters of genes that were either induced or suppressed more than two-fold by TM treatment compared with vehicle in C57BL/6J/Nrf2 (-/-; knockout) and C57BL/6J Nrf2 (+/+; wildtype) mice genotypes were identified. Amongst these, in small intestine and liver, 1291 and 750 genes, respectively, were identified as Nrf2-dependent and upregulated, and 1370 and 943 genes, respectively, as Nrf2-dependent and downregulated. Based on their biological functions, these genes can be categorized into molecular chaperones and heat shock proteins, ubiquitination/proteolysis, apoptosis/cell cycle, electron transport, detoxification, cell growth/differentiation, signaling molecules/interacting partners, kinases and phosphatases, transport, biosynthesis/metabolism, nuclear assembly and processing, and genes related to calcium and glucose homeostasis. Phase II detoxification/antioxidant genes as well as putative interacting partners of Nrf2 such as nuclear corepressors and coactivators, were also identified as Nrf2-dependent genes. The identification of TM-regulated and Nrf2-dependent genes in the unfolded protein response to ER stress not only provides potential novel insights into the gestalt biological effects of TM on the toxicogenomics and spatial regulation of global gene expression profiles in cancer pharmacology and toxicology, but also points to the pivotal role of Nrf2 in these biological processes.
Caspase-11 mediates ischemia-induced astrocyte death: involvement of endoplasmic reticulum stress and C/EBP homologous protein.	Astrocytes are essential cells for maintaining brain integrity. We have recently shown that the transcription factor C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP), associated with endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, plays a key role in the astrocyte death induced by ischemia. Meanwhile, mediators of apoptosis downstream of CHOP in the ER stress-dependent pathway remain to be elucidated. Our aim in this work was to determine whether caspase-11, able to activate apoptotic and proinflammatory pathways, is implicated in ER stress-dependent astrocyte death in ischemic conditions. According to our results, caspase-11 is up-regulated in primary astrocyte cultures following either oxygen and glucose deprivation (OGD) or treatment with the ER-stress inducers thapsigargin and tunicamycin. Moreover, these same stimuli increased caspase-11 mRNA levels and luciferase activity driven by a caspase-11 promoter, indicating that caspase-11 is regulated at the transcriptional level. Our data also illustrate the involvement of ER stress-associated CHOP in caspase-11 regulation, insofar as CHOP overexpression by means of an adenoviral vector caused a significant raise in caspase-11. In turn, caspase-11 suppression with siRNA rescued astrocytes from OGD- and ER stress-induced death, supporting the idea that caspase-11 is responsible for the deleterious effects of ischemia on astrocytes. Finally, inhibition of caspase-1 and caspase-3 significantly reduced astrocyte death, which indicates that these proteases act as death effectors of caspase-11. In conclusion, our work contributes to clarifying the pathways leading to astrocyte death in response to ischemia by defining caspase-11 as a key mediator of the ER stress response acting downstream of CHOP.
Endoplasmic reticulum stress in retinal vascular degeneration: protective role of resveratrol.	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has been demonstrated to contribute to neurodegeneration in multiple ocular diseases. However, whether ER stress can induce vascular degeneration in the retina remains unknown. We investigated the possible role of ER stress in retinal vascular degeneration in vivo, and the effects of resveratrol on tunicamycin and ischemia and reperfusion (I/R)-induced retinal vascular degeneration.
Correlation of the onset of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis-like clinical signs with oedema of the spinal cord in tunicamycin-poisoned rats.	The neurological signs induced by injection of tunicamycin are, in young adult rats, virtually identical to those typical of acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). Vasogenic exudation, of which the occurrence in the spinal cord of EAE rats has been shown to coincide with the onset of clinical signs, was investigated by quantitative electroimmunoblotting of central nervous system (CNS) tissue at various times following tunicamycin injection of young adult rats. Highly elevated levels of extravasated plasma proteins were observed in the spinal cord from 48 h after injection and, as in EAE rats, these increases coincided with the onset of neurological impairment. At 72 h post-injection, significant increases were also found in the brain of affected animals, albeit at much reduced levels. This is in contrast to previously reported findings in nursling rats where oedema was shown to be predominantly located in the brain. Quantitative electroimmunoblotting for myelin basic protein (MBP) in the CNS of tunicamycin-treated young adult rats indicated that, as in acute EAE, no extensive demyelination had occurred. These data provided further evidence that in both neurological diseases, vasogenic oedema of the spinal cord may be causally related to the appearance of neurological signs and suggested that its differential localization in the CNS may lead to differential neurological impairment.
Focal spongy changes in the central nervous system of sheep and cattle.	A focal form of vacuolation in the white matter of the thalamus of 13 sheep and 2 cattle is described. The individual vacuoles were similar in appearance to those reported in other forms of spongy degeneration, but they were differentiated by their consistent neuroanatomical localization in the thalamic radiation of all 15 animals. Thirteen of these were sheep used in toxicity experiments and 11 had shown signs of convulsive activity.
Cell surface alterations induced by the acycloguanosine (ACG) resistant and sensitive strains of herpes simplex virus type 2 (HSV-2) in the presence of ACG and tunicamycin.	HSV-2-ACG, a mutant of herpes simplex virus type 2, which is resistant to acycloguanosine and also capable of inducing fusion of BSC1 cells, was isolated. The viral-induced surface changes in these cells were studied using scanning electron microscopy. The formation of gigantic fused cells with increased number of microvilli and virus-like particles, extensively covering the infected cell surface, were investigated. Tunicamycin (50 micrograms/ml), an inhibitor of glycosylation of polypeptides, blocks the production of infectious virus, as well as the cell-fusion and efficiently prevents the viral induced alterations occurring on the surface of the cells.
