Apoptosis and proliferation in developing, mature, and regressing epibranchial placodes.	Epibranchial placodes and rhombencephalic neural crest provide precursor cells for the geniculate, petrosal, and nodose ganglia. In chick embryos and in Tupaia belangeri, apoptosis in rhombomeres 3 and 5 helps to select premigratory precursor cells and to segregate crest cell streams derived from the even-numbered rhombomeres. Much less is known about the patterns and functions of apoptosis in epibranchial placodes. We found that, in Tupaia belangeri, combined anlagen of the otic placode and epibranchial placode 1 transiently share a primordial low grade thickening with post-otic epibranchial placodes. Three-dimensional reconstructions reveal complementary, spatially, and temporally regulated apoptotic and proliferative events that demarcate the otic placode and epibranchial placode 1, and help to individualize three pairs of epibranchial placodes in a rostrocaudal sequence. Later, rostrocaudal waves of proliferation and apoptosis extend from dorsal to ventral parts of the placodes, paralleled by the dorsoventral progression of precursor cell delamination. These findings suggest a role for apoptosis during the process of neuroblast generation in the epibranchial placodes. Finally, apoptosis eliminates remnants of the placodes in the presence of late invading macrophages.
Histaminergic system in the tree shrew brain.	This study mapped the histamine-immunoreactive neuronal system in the brain of the tree shrew (Tupaia belangeri) and compared its structure with that of the rat and guinea pig. The histamine-containing cell bodies lay in the posterior ventral hypothalamus in the tuberomammillary complex, as in the rodents. The morphology of this complex resembled that of the rat. The histaminergic axons projected to nearly all parts of the brain. The main ascending bundle ran ventromedially: the densest innervation was found in the ventral hypothalamus, preoptic area, septum, medial part of nucleus accumbens, and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. High fiber densities were present in the amygdaloid nuclei and claustrum. Another pathway ran dorsomedially along the periventricular hypothalamus and sent fibers to all parts of the diencephalon. Part of these fibers followed the central gray to the midbrain and spread laterally below the inferior colliculus. Another descending pathway ran through the interfascicular and medial raphe nuclei to meet the pontine central gray. The densest fiber networks were seen in the dorsal tegmental and parabrachial nuclei, and around the locus coeruleus. Also the substantia nigra, interpeduncular and mesencephalic reticular nuclei, colliculi, and vestibular and raphe nuclei received a dense histaminergic innervation. The organization of the fibers in the tree shrew brain resembled more that in the guinea pig than that in the rat. As compared with the guinea pig, more fibers were present, particularly in the globus pallidus, central thalamus, and deep cerebellar nuclei. No fibers were seen in the outer layer of the piriform cortex. In Tupaia, a laminar organization of the fibers was evident in the hippocampus, in contrast to the rodents. Also, a dense periventricular fiber plexus was prominent.
Connections of the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus in the tree shrew. II. Efferent connections.	[35S]Methionine was injected into the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus of 5 adult tree shrews (Tupaia belangeri) and into the medioventral thalamic nucleus in another tree shrew. Three animals survived for 44 h and three others for two weeks (including the animal with the injection in the medioventral nucleus). Contact autoradiograms were made on an X-ray film. The mediodorsal thalamic nucleus was found to project ipsilaterally to all surfaces of the frontal pole of the cerebral cortex. No other projections of this nucleus have been established. Also in this species, the medioventral nucleus projects to the first layer of the entire neocortex ipsilaterally and to the mesencephalic tegmentum.
Neuronal and synaptic organization of the lateral geniculate nucleus of the tree shrew, Tupaia glis.	The ultrastructural study of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the tree shrew (Tupaia glis) revealed two types of neurons: (1) a large thalamocortical relay cell (TCR), which may bear cilia, and (2) a small Golgi type-II interneuron (IN) with an invaginated nucleus. The narrow rim of pale cytoplasm of the IN contains fewer lysosomes and fewer Nissl bodies than the cytoplasm of the TCR. The IN perikarya, which in some cases establish somatosomatic contacts, frequently contain flattened or pleomorphic synaptic vesicles. The ratio of TCR to IN is 3:1. Three types of axon terminals were observed in the LGN. Two of them contain round synaptic vesicles but differ in size. The large RL boutons undergo dark degeneration after enucleation; they are the terminals of retino-geniculate fibers. The smaller RS boutons show dark degeneration after ablation of the visual cortex; they are the terminals of the cortico-geniculate fibers. The third type of bouton (F1) does not degenerate after either intervention. The boutons of this type are filled with flattened vesicles and are believed to be intrageniculate terminals. F2-profiles were interpreted as presynaptic dendrites of the IN. The characteristic synaptic glomeruli found in the LGN contain in their center an optic terminal. These optic terminals establish synaptic contacts with dendrites or spine-like dendritic protrusions of TCRs as well as with presynaptic dendrites. Synaptic triads were also seen. The distribution of the individual types of synaptic contacts in layers 3 and 4 were determined. Layer 4 contains only one third of the retino-geniculate synapses and of the synaptic contacts of F1-terminals.
