Networks, trees, and treeshrews: assessing support and identifying conflict with multiple loci and a problematic root.	Multiple unlinked genetic loci often provide a more comprehensive picture of evolutionary history than any single gene can, but analyzing multigene data presents particular challenges. Differing rates and patterns of nucleotide substitution, combined with the limited information available in any data set, can make it difficult to specify a model of evolution. In addition, conflict among loci can be the result of real differences in evolutionary process or of stochastic variance and errors in reconstruction. We used 6 presumably unlinked nuclear loci to investigate relationships within the mammalian family Tupaiidae (Scandentia), containing all but one of the extant tupaiid genera. We used a phylogenetic mixture model to analyze the concatenated data and compared this with results using partitioned models. We found that more complex models were not necessarily preferred under tests using Bayes factors and that model complexity affected both tree length and parameter variance. We also compared the results of single-gene and multigene analyses and used splits networks to analyze the source and degree of conflict among genes. Networks can show specific relationships that are inconsistent with each other; these conflicting and minority relationships, which are implicitly ignored or collapsed by traditional consensus methods, can be useful in identifying the underlying causes of topological uncertainty. In our data, conflict is concentrated around particular relationships, not widespread throughout the tree. This pattern is further clarified by considering conflict surrounding the root separately from conflict within the ingroup. Uncertainty in rooting may be because of the apparent evolutionary distance separating these genera and our outgroup, the tupaiid genus Dendrogale. Unlike a previous mitochondrial study, these nuclear data strongly suggest that the genus Tupaia is not monophyletic with respect to the monotypic Urogale, even when uncertainty about rooting is taken into account. These data concur with mitochondrial DNA on other relationships, including the close affinity of Tupaia tana with the enigmatic Tupaia splendidula and of Tupaia belangeri with Tupaia glis. We also discuss the taxonomic and biogeographic implications of these results.
The taste responses in primates to the proteins thaumatin and monellin and their phylogenetic implications.	Electrophysiological and behavioural methods have been applied to 34 species of the primates and, for comparison, to the Madagascan hedgehog to determine their responses to the proteins thaumatin and monellin. These substances elicit an intensely sweet taste sensation in man. All Catarrhina prefer monellin to water. The responses of the Prosimii as well as those of the South American primates to monellin are different, some species show a reaction, other species are not sensitive. In the case of thaumatin neither the Prosimii--including Tupaia and Tarsius--nor the South American primates show any response to this protein. Only the Cercopithecidae, the Hylobatidae and the Pongidae respond to this protein like man and prefer this substance to water. This physiological aspect of taste constitutes a clear dichotomy within the order Primates. This capability to taste thaumatin probably developed as long as 38 million years ago.
