Regional differences in vascular responsiveness of nasal mucosae isolated from naive guinea pigs.	In the present study, the contractile response to norepinephrine (NE) and relaxing response to histamine and leukotriene D(4) (LTD(4)) were compared among the nasal mucosae of septa (S) and lateral (L) and medial turbinates (M) isolated from naive male Hartley guinea pigs.
Blood supply of the inferior turbinate and its clinical applications.	One of the most effective treatments of inferior turbinate (IT) hypertrophy is surgical reduction. Bleeding from the IT branch of the posterior lateral nasal artery (ITB) may interfere with the outcome of IT surgery. The aim of this study is to define the anatomic localization of the ITB and its variations and to investigate its clinical importance. Anatomic relations of the ITB were determined by microdissecting 20 adult, sagittally cross-sectioned head specimens. Branching characteristics of the ITB and its anatomical relations were evaluated. The most consistent two markers to define the ITB on the lateral nasal wall were the posterior attachment of the IT (PAIT) and the posterior attachment of the middle turbinate (PAMT). Mean horizontal distances of the ITB from the PAIT and the PAMT were 7.2 mm ± 2.8 mm (2.5-11.8 mm) and 8.2 mm ± 2.8 mm (4-14.6 mm), respectively. ITB was the only major artery that supplied the IT in 85% of the specimens, and, in 15%, there was more than one artery. ITB was located lateral to the IT in 95% and medial to the IT in 5%. The ITB coursed on the lateral nasal wall, vertically between the middle and ITs and always anterior to the PAIT. All the variations of blood supply to the IT were within a one square centimeter area, ∼1-cm anterior to the PAIT. Successful cauterization of this particular area may be an alternative cauterization site in IT surgery.
Cavernous tissue of the nasal mucosa]	The "cavernous" tissue of the nasal mucosa possesses a key function for different physiological and pathological conditions. In the present study we report about our own examinations on the "cavernous" tissue of the rabbit nasal mucosa. The specimen (nasal septum and anterior concha) were fixated by vascular perfusion via the carotid arteries, carefully excised and prepared for light and electron microscopy. Our observations indicate that the tunica propria of the nasal mucosa is covered by large, sinusoidal veins. Most of these vessels possess a rather thin vasvular wall. Some vessels, however, could be identified that had at first been regarded as arteries. A closer inspection, however, revealed the venous character of these muscularised vessels, which may correspond to the so called "Drosselvenen" described by Körner 50 years ago. These veins are supposed to possess a particular anatomical structure in their vascular wall called "sphincter", "muscular thickening", "cushion", or "muscular bolster" by various authors--which enables them to ease or to prevent the loss of fluid from the cavernous tissue. All our morphological findings as well as the functional significance of these peculiar structures are compared and discussed with the appropriate literature.
MR demonstration of the nasal cycle in the beagle dog.	Magnetic resonance (MR) imaging of periodic engorgement of the erectile tissue surrounding the turbinates in the beagle dog yields remarkably quiet data that are well fitted by a single sinusoidal wave form. This observation holds in spite of right-left asymmetries in the distribution of the MR signal. The nasal cycle also occurs normally in humans. Judging from the clarity of its MR representation in the dog, it is possible that this phenomenon could be confused in human MR with upper respiratory congestion associated with pathological processes.
