Dimerization partners determine the activity of the Twist bHLH protein during Drosophila mesoderm development.	The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Twist regulates a series of distinct cell fate decisions within the Drosophila mesodermal lineage. These twist functions are reflected in its dynamic pattern of expression, which is characterized by initial uniform expression during mesoderm induction, followed by modulated expression at high and low levels in each mesodermal segment, and finally restricted expression in adult muscle progenitors. We show two distinct partner-dependent functions for Twist that are crucial for cell fate choice. We find that Twist can form homodimers and heterodimers with the Drosophila E protein homologue, Daughterless, in vitro. Using tethered dimers to assess directly the function of these two particular dimers in vivo, we show that Twist homodimers specify mesoderm and the subsequent allocation of mesodermal cells to the somatic muscle fate. Misexpression of Twist-tethered homodimers in the ectoderm or mesoderm leads to ectopic somatic muscle formation overriding other developmental cell fates. In addition, expression of tethered Twist homodimers in embryos null for twist can rescue mesoderm induction as well as somatic muscle development. Loss of function analyses, misexpression and dosage experiments, and biochemical studies indicate that heterodimers of Twist and Daughterless repress genes required for somatic myogenesis. We propose that these two opposing roles explain how modulated Twist levels promote the allocation of cells to the somatic muscle fate during the subdivision of the mesoderm. Moreover, this work provides a paradigm for understanding how the same protein controls a sequence of events within a single lineage.
biniou (FoxF), a central component in a regulatory network controlling visceral mesoderm development and midgut morphogenesis in Drosophila.	The subdivision of the lateral mesoderm into a visceral (splanchnic) and a somatic layer is a crucial event during early mesoderm development in both arthropod and vertebrate embryos. In Drosophila, this subdivision leads to the differential development of gut musculature versus body wall musculature. Here we report that biniou, the sole Drosophila representative of the FoxF subfamily of forkhead domain genes, has a key role in the development of the visceral mesoderm and the derived gut musculature. biniou expression is activated in the trunk visceral mesoderm primordia downstream of dpp, tinman, and bagpipe and is maintained in all types of developing gut muscles. We show that biniou activity is essential for maintaining the distinction between splanchnic and somatic mesoderm and for differentiation of the splanchnic mesoderm into midgut musculature. biniou is required not only for the activation of differentiation genes that are expressed ubiquitously in the trunk visceral mesoderm but also for the expression of dpp in parasegment 7, which governs proper midgut morphogenesis. Activation of dpp is mediated by specific Biniou binding sites in a dpp enhancer element, which suggests that Biniou serves as a tissue-specific cofactor of homeotic gene products in visceral mesoderm patterning. Based upon these and other data, we propose that the splanchnic mesoderm layers in Drosophila and vertebrate embryos are homologous structures whose development into gut musculature and other visceral organs is critically dependent on FoxF genes.
Neoexpression of N-cadherin in E-cadherin positive colon cancers.	In our study, we aimed to investigate the expression of N-cadherin and E-cadherin and their dependency on epithelial-mesenchymal transition regulators SNAI1, SIP1 and TWIST in human colon cancer. Expression of E-cadherin and N-cadherin was examined by immunohistochemistry in 80 colon carcinomas by using paraffin embedded and formalin fixed tissues. Those cases were partly analyzed for mRNA expression of N-cadherin (42 cases), TWIST (18 cases), SNAI1 (25 cases) and SIP1 (25 cases) by real-time quantitative RT-PCR. Additionally, colon carcinomas that showed amplification of 20q13, the localization of the human SNAI1 gene, were examined. We found cytoplasmic and/or membrane-associated immunoreactivity of N-cadherin in 35/80 (44%) of the cases. However, there was no correlation to upregulated TWIST mRNA levels, as we have shown previously for diffuse-type gastric cancers with abnormal N-cadherin expression. Reduced and/or cytoplasmic E-cadherin immunoreactivity was detected in 19% (15/80) of the cases. Expression of SNAI1 or SIP1 mRNA was not seen in any of the 25 cases analyzed. There was no correlation between amplification of 20q13 and SNAI1 mRNA expression. Remarkably, N-cadherin was almost exclusively expressed in those cases showing normal E-cadherin immunoreactivity, suggesting a mutual exclusion between abnormal E-cadherin reduction and upregulation of N-cadherin. For the first time, we postulate a role for N-cadherin in primary colon cancer progression, which may be similar to the effect discovered by others in breast cancer cell lines, where coexpressed N-cadherin can exert a dominant function over E-cadherin's adhesive function and thus promote tumor invasiveness.
Molecular analysis of patients with synostotic frontal plagiocephaly (unilateral coronal synostosis).	Mutations in genes known to be responsible for most of the recognizable syndromes associated with bilateral coronal synostosis can be detected by molecular testing. The genetic alterations that could cause unilateral coronal synostosis are more elusive. It is recognized that FGFR and TWIST mutations can give rise to either bilateral or unilateral coronal synostosis, even in the same family. The authors undertook a prospective study of patients presenting with synostotic frontal plagiocephaly (unilateral coronal synostosis) to Children's Hospital Boston during the period from 1997 to 2000. Mutational analysis was performed on all patients and on selected parents whenever familial transmission was suspected. Intraoperative anthropometry was used in an effort to differentiate those patients in whom a mutation was detected from those in whom it was not. The anthropometric measures included bilateral sagittal orbital-globe distance, inter medial canthal distance, and nasal angulation. Macrocephaly and palpebral angulation were also considered possible determinants. There was a 2:1 female preponderance in 47 patients with synostotic frontal plagiocephaly. Mutations were found in eight of 47 patients: two patients with different single-amino-acid changes in FGFR2, three patients with FGFR3 Pro250Arg, and three patients with TWIST mutations. Another patient had craniofrontonasal syndrome for which a causative locus has been mapped to chromosome X, although molecular testing is not yet available. Two features were strongly associated with a detectable mutation in patients with synostotic frontal plagiocephaly: asymmetrical brachycephaly (retrusion of both supraorbital rims) and orbital hypertelorism. Other abnormalities in the craniofacial region and extremities were clues to a particular mutation in FGFR2, FGFR3, TWIST, or the X-linked mutation. Neither macrocephaly nor degree of nasal angulation nor relative vertical position of the lateral canthi correlated with mutational detection. An additional four patients in this study had either unilateral or bilateral coronal synostosis in an immediate relative and had anthropometric findings that predicted a mutation, and yet no genetic alteration was found. This suggests either that the authors' screening methods were not sufficiently sensitive or that perhaps there are other unknown pathogenic loci. Nevertheless, molecular testing is recommended for infants who have unilateral coronal synostosis, particularly if there are the anthropometric findings highlighted in this study or an otherwise suspicious feature in the child or a parent. Infants with either an identified or a suspected mutation usually need bilateral asymmetric advancement of the bandeau and may be more likely to require frontal revision in childhood.
HOXA5-twist interaction alters p53 homeostasis in breast cancer cells.	The homeotic gene HOXA5 has been shown to play an important role in breast tumorigenesis. We have shown that loss of p53 correlated with loss of a developmentally regulated transcription factor, HOXA5, in primary breast cancer. Searching for potential protein interacting partners we found that HOXA5 binds to an anti-apoptotic protein, Twist. Furthermore, Twist-overexpressing MCF-7 cells displayed a deregulated p53 response to gamma-radiation and decreased regulation of downstream target genes. Using a p53-promoter-reporter system, we demonstrated that HOXA5 could partially restore the inhibitory effects of Twist on p53 target genes. These effects are likely mediated through both the transcriptional up-regulation of p53 and the protein-protein interaction between HOXA5 and Twist. Thus, the loss of HOXA5 expression could lead to the functional activation of Twist resulting in aberrant cell cycle regulation and promoting breast carcinogenesis.
Tribolium castaneum twist: gastrulation and mesoderm formation in a short-germ beetle.	Mesoderm formation has been extensively analyzed in the long-germ insect Drosophila melanogaster. In Drosophila, both the invagination and specification of the mesoderm is controlled by twist. Here we present a detailed description of mesoderm formation and twist regulation for the short-germ beetle Tribolium castaneum. In contrast to Drosophila, (1) the presumptive mesodermal cells of Tribolium are part of a mitotic domain and divide prior to ventral furrow formation, (2) ventral furrow formation progresses from posterior to anterior, (3) the number of cell layers within the furrow changes from multilayered in caudal to single layered in cephalic regions, and (4) there is a continuous production of mesodermal cells after gastrulation as new segments arise from the posterior growth zone. Tribolium twist (Tc-twist) is initially expressed in all presumptive mesodermal cells; however, after invagination, expression is maintained only in particular locations, which include the anterior compartments of the cephalic segments and a patch of cells at the posterior rim of the growth zone. The growth zone is multilayered with its inner cell layer being continuous with the mesoderm of the newly forming segments where twist expression is re-initiated anterior to the emerging engrailed stripes. A genomic region of Tc-twist was identified which drives ventral expression of a reporter construct in Drosophila. The expression of this Tc-twist construct in the background of Drosophila maternal mutations suggests that the dorsoventral system regulates Tc-twist, but that differences exist in regulation of the Dm-twist and Tc-twist genes by the terminal system.
Deletion involving the TWIST locus and the HOXA cluster: a contiguous gene syndrome on 7p?	Deletion of TWIST on 7p21 leads to Saethre-Chotzen syndrome, whereas deletion of the HOXA cluster on 7p15.2 leads to hand-foot-genital syndrome. We report here a patient with 46,XY,del(7)(p15.2p21) who had craniosynostosis, maxillary hypoplasia, prominent ear crus, rectoperineal fistula, and hypoplastic fifth fingers. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization, we demonstrated the deletion to encompass the TWIST locus and the HOXA cluster. We suggest that many, if not all, of the features of this patient could be accounted for by combined haploinsufficiency of the TWIST and HOXA cluster. Hence, the patient's phenotype may define a new contiguous gene syndrome on 7p.
Expression patterns of a twist-related gene in embryos of the spider Achaearanea tepidariorum reveal divergent aspects of mesoderm development in the fly and spider.	We cloned an Achaearanea tepidariorum (Chelicerata, Arachnida) gene related to Drosophila twist (twi), which encodes a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor required to specify mesoderm fate in the Drosophila embryo. The cloned spider gene was designated At.twist (At.twi). We examined its expression by whole-mount in situ hybridization. At.twi transcripts were first detected in cells located at the polar and equatorial areas of the spherical embryo when the cumulus reached the equator. As the extra-embryonic area expanded, more cells expressed At.twi transcripts. The At.twi-expressing cells became distributed nearly uniformly in the embryonic area. At these stages, some At.twi-expressing cells were found in the surface epithelial cell layer, but other At.twi-expressing cells were at slightly deeper positions from the surface. When the embryo was transformed into a germ band, all At.twi-expressing cells were situated just beneath the surface ectoderm, where they became metamerically arranged. Although little expression was observed in the caudal lobe of the elongating germ band, new stripes of At.twi expression appeared beneath the ectoderm in accordance with the posterior growth. These observations suggested that the cells expressing At.twi were most likely mesoderm. We propose that At.twi can be used as a molecular marker for analyzing mesoderm development in the spider embryo. Moreover, comparison of the expression patterns of twi and At.twi revealed divergent aspects of mesoderm development in the fly and spider. In addition, we cloned an Achaearanea gene related to snail, which is another mesoderm-determining gene in Drosophila, and showed that its expression was restricted to the ectoderm with no indication for a role in mesoderm development.
Expression of the transcription factors snail, slug, and twist and their clinical significance in human breast cancer.	Slug, Snail, and Twist are transcription factors that regulate the expression of tumor suppressors such as E-cadherin. We examined the distribution and expression of these three molecules together with the methylation of the Twist gene promoter in human breast cancer to elucidate their clinical significance.
Gene expression during palate fusion in vivo and in vitro.	Failure of secondary palate fusion during embryogenesis is a cause of cleft palate. Disappearance of the medial epithelial seam (MES) is required to allow merging of the mesenchyme from both palatal shelves. This involves complex changes of the medial edge epithelial (MEE) cells and surrounding structures that are controlled by several genes whose spatio-temporal expression is tightly regulated. We have carried out morphological analyses and used a semi-quantitative RT-PCR technique to evaluate whether morphological changes and modulation in the expression of putative key genes, such as twist, snail, and E-cadherin, during the fusion process in palate organ culture parallel those observed in vivo, and show that this is indeed the case. We also show, using the organotypic model of palate fusion, that the down-regulation of the transcription factor snail that occurs with the progression of palate development is not dependent on fusion of the palatal shelves.
The M-twist gene of Mus is expressed in subsets of mesodermal cells and is closely related to the Xenopus X-twi and the Drosophila twist genes.	The twist gene was characterized in Drosophila as being necessary at gastrulation for the establishment of the mesodermal germ layer. It codes for a nuclear DNA-binding protein that is probably a transcription factor. We have cloned and sequenced the M-twist gene of Mus musculus. The deduced proteins encoded by the Mus, Xenopus, and Drosophila twist cDNAs, respectively, show a high degree of similarity. Northern blot analyses and in situ hybridizations reveal that the 1.7-kb murine M-twist m-RNA is present at early stages, starting at 8 days post coitum, and is expressed the most at 9.5 days in the cephalic and branchial mesectoderm, in some derivatives of the mesodermal layer (sclerotoma and somatopleura), and in the limb buds.
An alternate model of tumoral progression]	Tumor development is usually described as the result of successive waves of genetic and epigenetic changes and of Darwinian selections that allow the progressive emergence of cells with proliferation and survival advantages. According to this model of tumoral progression, the acquisition of metastatic properties is perceived as a late stage-induced response to environmentally damaging conditions in the tumor, in particular oxygen and nutriment lack. Analyzing the consequences linked to the reactivation of embryonic programmes leads, for some cancer types, to question the linearity of this model, by showing that the dissemination of cancerous or precancerous cells may begin as early as the lesions convert from a premalignant to a malignant state. We propose to review the main findings that brought about these conclusions and to discuss what consequences they might have.
Mesenchymal and stemness circulating tumor cells in early breast cancer diagnosis.	Epithelial mesenchymal transition (EMT) is a crucial event likely involved in dissemination of epithelial cancer cells. This process enables them to acquire migratory/invasive properties, contributing to tumor and metastatic spread. To know if this event is an early one in breast cancer, we developed a clinical trial. The aim of this protocol was to detect circulating tumor cells endowed with mesenchymal and/or stemness characteristics, at the time of initial diagnosis. Breast cancer patients (n = 61), without visceral or bone metastasis were enrolled and analysis of these dedifferentiated circulating tumor cells (ddCTC) was realized.
Dermo-1: a novel twist-related bHLH protein expressed in the developing dermis.	Transcription factors belonging to the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family have been shown to control differentiation of a variety of cell types. Tissue-specific bHLH proteins dimerize preferentially with ubiquitous bHLH proteins to form heterodimers that bind the E-box consensus sequence (CANNTG) in the control regions of target genes. Using the yeast two-hybrid system to screen for tissue-specific bHLH proteins, which dimerize with the ubiquitous bHLH protein E12, we cloned a novel bHLH protein, named Dermo-1. Within its bHLH region, Dermo-1 shares extensive homology with members of the twist family of bHLH proteins, which are expressed in embryonic mesoderm. During mouse embryogenesis, Dermo-1 showed an expression pattern similar to, but distinct from, that of mouse twist. Dermo-1 was expressed at a low level in the sclerotome and dermatome of the somites, and in the limb buds at Day 10.5 post coitum (p.c.), and accumulated predominantly in the dermatome, prevertebrae, and the derivatives of the branchial arches by Day 13.5 p.c. As differentiation of prechondrial cells proceeded, Dermo-1 expression became restricted to the perichondrium. Expression of Dermo-1 increased continuously in the dermis through Day 17.5 p.c. and was also detected in the dermis of neonates, but became downregulated in adult tissues. The Dermo-1 protein bound the E-box consensus sequence in the presence of E12, but transcriptional activity was not detectable. Instead, Dermo-1 repressed transcriptional activity of myogenic bHLH proteins. The expression pattern of Dermo-1 suggests that it functions as a regulator of gene expression in a subset of mesenchymal cell lineages including developing dermis.
Expression patterns of twist and snail in Tribolium (Coleoptera) suggest a homologous formation of mesoderm in long and short germ band insects.	The mesodermal region in Drosophila is determined by a maternally derived morphogenetic gradient system which specifies the different cell fates along the dorsoventral axis, including the prospective mesodermal cells at the ventral side of the embryo. There are at least two zygotic target genes, twist and snail, which are required for mesoderm formation in Drosophila. To analyze whether a similar mode of mesoderm specification might also apply to short germband insect embryos, we have cloned twist and snail-related gene fragments from the flour beetle Tribolium and have analyzed their expression pattern. Both genes are expressed in a ventral stripe at early blastoderm stage, which is restricted to the region of the developing germ rudiment. The cells expressing the two genes are those that invaginate during gastrulation, indicating that the early stages of mesoderm specification are indeed very similar between the two species. Interestingly, both genes are also expressed during germband extension in a subregion of the growth zone of the embryo which forms the mesodermal cells. This suggests that the expression of the two genes is required for mesoderm formation both at early blastoderm stage and during germband elongation until the end of the segmental growth process.
Defect repair after somite removal in avian embryos is not true regeneration.	The question of regeneration after experimental somite extirpation has been controversial in the literature. While all workers agree that repair of the defects occurs, results concerning the extent and mechanism of this process, as well as the origin of the cells filling the defect, show great discrepancies. Our approach towards a re-examination of this question involved microsurgical removal of individual somites in 2-day-chick embryos in combination with grafting of quail somites and lateral plate. We show that the defect in the paraxial mesoderm is filled within a day after extirpation and that the reconstituting cells are derived only from the cranial and caudal somites, but not from the contralateral somites or from the lateral plate. There are no indications of an increase of proliferation in the neighbouring somites. In order to examine the differentiation capacities of the cells that fill the defect, we used immunohistochemistry and in situ-hybridization. We show that the cells in the defect are mesenchymal in morphology and express Pax-1 and Twist. There are a few desmin-positive cells in the defect that can be shown to derive from adjacent somites. An epithelial dermomyotome and myotome are absent at the operation site. Neural crest cells do not participate in the reconstitution of the defect. We conclude that cells in the defect either already have or adopt a ventral somitic (sclerotomal) identity, whereas derivatives with dorsal identity are absent from the defect except for a few individual cells.
