Ca2+ oscillation-inducing phospholipase C zeta expressed in mouse eggs is accumulated to the pronucleus during egg activation.	Sperm-specific phospholipase C zeta (PLC zeta) is known to induce intracellular Ca(2+) oscillations and egg activation when expressed in mouse eggs by injection of RNA encoding PLC zeta. We investigated the expression level and spatial distribution of PLC zeta in the egg in real time and in relation to the initiation and termination of Ca(2+) oscillations by monitoring fluorescence of a yellow fluorescent protein 'Venus' fused with PLC zeta. Ca(2+) oscillations similar to those at fertilization were induced at 40-50 min after RNA injection, when expressed PLC zeta reached 10-40 x 10(-15) g in the egg. PLC zeta-Venus increased up to 3 h and attained a steady level at 4-5 h. Interestingly, PLC zeta-Venus is accumulated to the pronucleus (PN) formed at 5-6 h and continuously increased there. Ca(2+) oscillations stopped in most eggs before initiation of the accumulation. A variant of PLC zeta that lacks three EF hand domains was much less effective in induction of Ca(2+) oscillations and little accumulated in the pronucleus, indicating a critical role of those domains. The ability of the accumulation to the pronucleus qualifies PLC zeta for a strong candidate of the Ca(2+) oscillation-inducing sperm factor, which is introduced into the ooplasm upon sperm-egg fusion and concentrated to the pronucleus after inducing egg activation.
Phospholipase-C beta1 is predominantely expressed in the granular layer of rat cerebellar cortex.	The beta1 isoform of phospholipase-C is exclusively present in the nucleus of several hematopoietic and non-hematopoietic cell lines and primary cells of different species. When present, it represents the key enzyme for initiating the nuclear phospholipid breakdown that is involved in the cellular response to proliferating and differentiating stimuli. We have studied the expression of this enzyme isoform in the rat cerebellar cortex. We demonstrate that phospholipase-C beta1 (PLCbeta1) is predominantly expressed in the neurons of the granular layer, while it is virtually absent in the molecular and Purkinje cell layers of rat cerebellar cortex. This pattern of expression is partially different from that of the mouse cerebellar cortex, where not only granular cells, but also Purkinje cells express PLCbeta1. The high level of synaptic inputs that converge on granular cells may imply a constantly active nuclear phospholipid metabolism that may not be strictly required for the appropriate cellular responses of the other cell types of rat cerebellar cortex.
A novel phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing phospholipase C induced by phosphate starvation in Arabidopsis.	During phosphate starvation, it is known that phospholipids are degraded, and conversely, a nonphosphorus galactolipid digalactosyldiacylglycerol accumulates in the root plasma membrane of plants. We report a novel phospholipase C that hydrolyzes phosphatidylcholine and is greatly induced in response to phosphate deprivation in Arabidopsis. Since phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing activity by phospholipase C was highly up-regulated in phosphate-deprived plants, gene expression of some phospholipase C was expected to be induced during phosphate starvation. Based on amino acid sequence similarity to a bacterial phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing phospholipase C, six putative phospholipase Cs were identified in the Arabidopsis genome, one of which, NPC4, showed significant transcriptional activation upon phosphate limitation. Molecular cloning and functional expression of NPC4 confirmed that the NPC4 gene encoded a functional phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing phospholipase C that did not require Ca(2+) for its activity. Subcellular localization analysis showed that NPC4 protein was highly enriched in the plasma membrane. Analyses of transferred DNA-tagged npc4 mutants revealed that disruption of NPC4 severely reduces the phosphatidylcholine-hydrolyzing phospholipase C activity in response to phosphate starvation. These results suggest that NPC4 plays an important role in the supply of both inorganic phosphate and diacylglycerol from membrane-localized phospholipids that would be used for phosphate supplementation and the replacement of polar lipids in the root plasma membrane during phosphate deprivation.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor/phospholipase C pathway: a vulnerable target to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease in the cerebral cortex.	Glutamate is the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the cerebral cortex. Altered glutamatergic transmission has been suggested as having a central role in many neurodegenerative diseases. Metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are coupled to intracellular signal transduction via G proteins, and they mediate slower responses than ionotropic glutamate receptors. Group I mGluRs are positively coupled to phospholipase C beta1 (PLCbeta1). Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) is a human transmissible spongiform encephalopathy associated with a dysfunction in the membrane glycoprotein PrP which is converted into an abnormal isoform, with a predominant beta-sheet structure, that is pathogenic and partially resistant to protease digestion. Proteins associated with the signal transduction of group I mGluRs were examined in the frontal cortex (area 8) of 12 cases with sCJD and four age-matched controls, by means of gel electrophoresis and Western blotting of total homogenates. Densitometric analysis of the bands demonstrated decreased expression levels of PLCbeta1 and PLCgamma, a non-related phospholipase which is a substrate of tyrosine kinase, in CJD cases when compared with controls. Novel protein kinase C delta (nPKCdelta) has also been found to be significantly decreased in CJD cases. However, no modifications in mGluR1 cPKCalpha expression levels are found in CJD when compared with controls. No modifications in PLCbeta1 solubility in PBS-, deoxycholate- and sodium dodecylsulphate-soluble fractions have been observed in CJD when compared with controls. Finally, no interactions between PLCbeta1 and PrP, as revealed by immunoprecipitation assays, have been found in CJD and controls. The present results show, for the first time, reduced expression levels of phospholipases, particularly PLCbeta1, which may interfere with group I mGluR signaling in the cerebral cortex in CJD. These abnormalities are not the result of abnormal PLC solubility or interactions with PrP. Selective involvement of group I mGluRs may have functional effects on glutamatergic transmission modulation and processing in CJD.
High level expression of a recombinant phospholipase C from Bacillus cereus in Bacillus subtilis.	Twenty-two Bacillus cereus strains were screened for phospholipase C (PLC, EC 3.1.4.3) activity using p-nitrophenyl phosphorylcholine as a substrate. Two strains (B. cereus SBUG 318 and SBUG 516) showed high activity at elevated temperatures (>70 degrees C) at acidic pH (pH 3.5-6) and were selected for cloning and functional expression using Bacillus subtilis. The genes were amplified from B. cereus DNA using primers based on a known PLC sequence and cloned into the expression vector pMSE3 followed by transformation into B. subtilis WB800. On the amino acid level, one protein (PLC318) was identical to a PLC described from B. cereus, whereas PLC516 contained an amino acid substitution (E173D). PLC production using the recombinant strains was performed by an acetoin-controlled expression system. For PLC516, 13.7 U g(-1) wet cell weight was determined in the culture supernatant after 30 h cultivation time. Three purification steps resulted in pure PLC516 with a specific activity of 13,190 U mg(-1) protein.
Divergent regulation of phospholipase C-alpha and phospholipase C-gamma transcripts during activation of a human T cell line.	Ligand-induced activation of T cells results in stimulation of phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C (PI-PLC). A structurally diverse family of PI-PLC isoforms has recently been defined, and more than one isoform is frequently coexpressed in a single cell or tissue, suggesting that different forms may play distinct roles in cellular activation, proliferation, or differentiation. We show here that both PLC-alpha and PLC-gamma are expressed in rat splenic T cells and in Jurkat cells (a human T cell line). Activation of Jurkat cells with the combination of PMA and PHA leads to increased expression of PLC-alpha message and decreased expression of PLC-gamma message after 4 h of stimulation. The increase in PLC-alpha transcripts was detectable at 4 h, maximal at 6 h, and remained elevated for at least 24 h. The decrease in PLC-gamma message was transient, with a maximal effect at 4 h, and a return to basal levels by 6 h. Changes in PI-PLC transcripts were also induced by the combination of PMA and the calcium ionophore, ionomycin. These data demonstrate that the expression of transcripts for PLC-alpha and PLC-gamma can be differentially regulated during a cellular response, and raise the possibility that these two isoforms of PI-PLC subserve distinct functions in T cell activation.
Lysophosphatidic acid induces reactive oxygen species generation by activating protein kinase C in PC-3 human prostate cancer cells.	Prostate cancer is one of the most frequently diagnosed cancers in males, and PC-3 is a cell model popularly used for investigating the behavior of late stage prostate cancer. Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) is a lysophospholipid that mediates multiple behaviors in cancer cells, such as proliferation, migration and adhesion. We have previously demonstrated that LPA enhances vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-C expression in PC-3 cells by activating the generation of reactive oxygen species (ROS), which is known to be an important mediator in cancer progression. Using flow cytometry, we showed that LPA triggers ROS generation within 10min and that the generated ROS can be suppressed by pretreatment with the NADPH oxidase (Nox) inhibitor diphenylene iodonium. In addition, transfection with LPA1 and LPA3 siRNA efficiently blocked LPA-induced ROS production, suggesting that both receptors are involved in this pathway. Using specific inhibitors and siRNA, phospholipase C (PLC) and protein kinase C (PKC) were also suggested to participate in LPA-induced ROS generation. Overall, we demonstrated that LPA induces ROS generation in PC-3 prostate cancer cells and this is mediated through the PLC/PKC/Nox pathway. 
Immunohistochemical expression of phospholipase C in global and focal ischemic encephalopathy in gerbil: relationship with morphological changes.	Phospholipase C (PLC) and related enzymes in signal transduction system are closely linked to cellular damage in ischemic encephalopathy. This study was undertaken to elucidate the time sequential changes of PLC isoenzymes (beta and gamma) in vulnerable areas of hippocampus in global ischemia and infarcted area in focal infarction. Mongolian gerbils were used because of their susceptibility to ischemic encephalopathy and divided into the following groups: the bilateral ischemia with various reperfusion periods group, unilateral progressive ischemia group, and focal ischemia group induced by infusion of iron particles through the femoral artery. The changes of PLC isoenzymes were observed immunohistochemically and matched with morphological changes. In the global ischemia with reperfusion group, the changes were most significant in hippocampus. Sequential changes of neurons such as red neurons at an early stage progressed to pknotic neurons at a later stage were noted with typical delayed neuronal damage in the corns ammonis (CA) 1 subfield of hippocampus. Red neurons and pyknotic neurons as well as intracytoplasmic inclusion in 3 to 24 hours of reperfusion showed loss of PLC isoenzymes as well as tubulin. The changes of PLC expression were corresponding to the degeneration of neurons with no discernible time sequential changes in remaining neurons. In the unilateral hemispheric progressive ischemia group, ischemic damage was far more marked and extensive with no selective injury pattern according to time and location. At 1 day, there was diffuse vacuolization and necrosis of neuropil with a loss of neuron. Admixed surviving neurons and vacuolated neuropil showed increased reaction to anti-PLC antibodies, which could be either an evidence of protein synthesis responding to ischemic insult or an artifactual change. Focal ischemia group showed time sequential changes of blood vessels and white blood cells with necrosis of surrounding tissue. Degenerating hippocampal neurons in infarction also showed a strong positive reaction to anti-PLC antibody, which was most likely due to condensation of cytoplasm rather than increased synthesis. This study showed different changes of PLC expression in global ischemic encephalopathy with reperfusion, progressive ischemia, and focal infarction, which suggested different pathophysiologic mechanism between these conditions.
