Lice and lice-borne diseases in humans]	Among the three lice which parasite the human being, the human body louse, Pediculus humanus humanus, is a vector of infectious diseases. It lives and multiplies in clothes and human infestation is associated with cold weather and a lack of hygiene. Three pathogenic bacteria are transmitted by the body louse: 1) Rickettsia prowazekii, the agent of epidemic typhus of which the most recent outbreak (and the largest since World War II) was observed during the civil war in Burundi; 2) Borrelia recurrentis, the agent of relapsing fever, historically responsible of massive outbreaks in Eurasia and Africa, which prevails currently in Ethiopia and neighboring countries; 3) Bartonella quintana, the agent of trench fever, bacillary angiomatosis, chronic bacteremia, endocarditis, and lymphadenopathy. Body louse infestation, associated with a decline in social and hygienic conditions provoked by civil unrest and economic instability, is reemergent worldwide. Recently, a forth human pathogen, Acinetobacter baumannii, has been associated to the body louse.
Detection of Rickettsia prowazekii by quantitative real-time PCR]	To develop a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for detecting Rickettsia prowazekii.
Detection of typhus antibodies by latex agglutination.	A latex test for assay of antibodies to endemic and epidemic typhus rickettsiae is simple, group-specific, sensitive, and reproducible. Cross-reactivity within the typhus group was extensive.
The current course of Brill's disease]	The paper presents the data on the clinical course and laboratory diagnosis of Brill's disease in 30 patients. The absence of absolute and not infrequently basic and indicating signs of the disease as well as its frequent course in the presence of the concurrent diseases significantly hinder its clinical diagnosis, particularly at the initial stage of the disease. Unwanted clinical and epidemiological consequences could be avoided only in case of a constant medical alertness and understanding of specificity of the current course of Brill's disease as well as a provisional hospitalization within 5 days of all the patients with unclear diagnosis who have fever into the infectious department of a hospital.
Preliminary evaluation of the INDX DIP-S-TICKS with positive rickettsial samples in Malaysia.	Forty-four serum samples of various reactivities to rickettsial antigens demonstrated by the indirect immunoperoxidase technique were tested with INDX Dip-S-Ticks (INDX Integrated Diagnostics Inc., USA) Kit for the detection of tick borne diseases. The kit utilised Rickettsia rickettsii the causative agent of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) as antigens. The samples positive for endemic typhus were also tested against R. typhi, the agent for endemic typhus by the same method. The aim of this study was to determine the extent of cross-reactivity of R. rickettsii with rickettsial infections in Malaysia. Nine out of 12 tick typhus, 4 out of 10 scrub typhus and 4 out of 12 endemic typhus samples cross reacted with R. rickettsii. Ten out of 12 endemic samples were positive with R. typhi by the same method. From the study, we concluded that the INDX Dip-S-Ticks Kit can be used as a rapid screening test to detect endemic and tick-borne rickettsial infections in Malaysia but a second serological test is strongly recommended on all weakly reactive cases.
