An evaluation of a C-glucuronide as a liver targeting group: conjugate of a glucocorticoid antagonist.	A beta-C-glucuronide conjugate of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist, Mifepristone 1, was prepared which maintained binding affinity, had modest in vitro activity, and was metabolically more stable than the parent. Pharmacokinetic studies suggest that the conjugate is recognized by the liver like O-glucuronides and may undergo a portion of the enterohepatic recirculation loop.
A cystine-dependent inactivator of tyrosine aminotransferase co-purifies with gamma-cystathionase (cystine desulfurase).	Tyrosine aminotransferase is stable in homogenates of rat liver, but not when L-cystine or L-cysteine is added, which causes the enzyme to be reversibly inactivated due to oxidation of thiol groups. By monitoring inactivation of the aminotransferase in the presence of L-cystine, a factor responsible for this loss of activity was purified from rat liver. The factor required vitamin B6 and co-purified with gamma-cystathionase during numerous steps. Highly purified inactivating factor contained a protein that was identical in size and isoelectric point to cystathionase but also contained a dissimilar peptide that appeared to be unrelated to cystathionase. Cystathionase and the cystine-dependent inactivator shared several catalytic activities, including the hydrolysis of cystathionine, desulfuration of cystine, and desulfhydration of cysteine. During incubation of L-cysteine with the purified factor, hydrogen sulfide was generated but no inactivation of the aminotransferase occurred, suggesting that cysteine-dependent inactivation requires additional mechanisms. An insoluble inactivator of tyrosine aminotransferase that is produced during the reaction may be elemental sulfur, since colloidal suspensions of sulfur also inhibited the enzyme. Another inhibitor fractionated with high molecular weight substances; this may be protein-bound sulfane.
Effects of protein-degradation inhibitors on the inactivation of tyrosine aminotransferase, tryptophan oxygenase and benzopyrene hydroxylase in isolated rat hepatocytes.	The following three potent inhibitors of hepatocytic proteolysis were investigated to see if they would inhibit the intracellular inactivation of enzymes: chymostatin and leupeptin (proteinase inhibitors) and methylamine (a lysosomotropic weak base). Chymostatin inhibited the inactivation of two of the three enzymes tested: tyrosine aminotransferase (EC 2.6.1.5) and tryptophan oxygenase (tryptophan 2,3-dioxygenase, EC 1.13.11.11). Leupeptin had no effect on any of the enzymes, whereas methylamine had only a weak inhibitory effect on tyrosine aminotransferase inactivation. Apparently proteolytic cleavage (probably by a non-lysosomal proteinase, since only chymostatin is effective) is involved in the inactivation of tyrosine aminotransferase and tryptophan oxygenase. The third enzyme, benzopyrene hydroxylase (flavoprotein-linked mono-oxygenase, EC 1.14.14.1), is probably inactivated by a non-proteolytic mechanism.
Regulation of tyrosine aminotransferase activity by glucagon and cAMP analogues in chick embryos in ovo.	Glucagon, dibutyryl cAMP (Bt2cAMP) and 8-(4-chlorophenylthio) cAMP (CptcAMP), singly or when combined, stimulated tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) activity in 17-day-old chick embryos in ovo. Maximal induction was produced within 4 hr of injection of the inducers. The effects of glucagon and the cAMP analogues were not additive. Glucagon administration was accompanied by a rapid increase in hepatic cAMP concentration which remained elevated for at least 4 hr. The stimulated increase in TAT activity elicited by the hormone or cyclic nucleotide was prevented by injection of cycloheximide or cordycepin. These results are discussed vis-à-vis the possible regulation of TAT in ovo by physiological concentrations of glucagon and the likely role of cAMP as a second messenger in this process during chick embryogenesis.
Cadmium affects the activity of rat liver tyrosine aminotransferase and its induction by dexamethasone.	The effects of cadmium (Cd) administration to intact rats on hepatic glucocorticoid receptor (GR) steroid binding capacity and DNA-binding ability were examined and correlated with the influence of the metal on rat liver tyrosine aminotransferase (TAT) activity and its induction by dexamethasone. It was found that 24 h after i.p. administration of Cd doses ranging from 0.5 to 4 mg/kg, the GR steroid- and DNA-binding activities were significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner. The same doses of Cd also affected the basal and dexamethasone-induced level of TAT activity, as well as the concentration of metallothionein in rat liver. The decrease in TAT activity and in its induction by dexamethasone observed in response to low Cd doses was proportional to the alterations of the GR functional properties. Higher doses of Cd, which were more effective in reducing both the GR binding of the hormone and to DNA, however, stimulated TAT activity and potentiated dexamethasone induction of the enzyme. The results led to the conclusion that Cd may alter physiological response of rat liver cells to glucocorticoids interfering with the GR-dependent transcriptional regulation of the TAT gene.
