Use of tumor-specific gene expression for the differential diagnosis of neuroblastoma from other pediatric small round-cell malignancies.	The differential diagnosis of neuroblastoma from other small round-cell tumors of childhood, although clinically of great importance, is sometimes difficult due to the almost indistinguishable appearance of such tumors by conventional microscopy. Because neuroblastomas are characterized by the synthesis of catecholamines, we investigated the possibility that expression of genes involved in this pathway could serve as a molecular marker for this disease. A reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction assay was used to analyze expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopa decarboxylase in 84 pediatric malignancies including 55 neuroblastomas, 6 Ewing's sarcomas/primitive neuroectodermal tumors, 7 lymphomas, 6 leukemias, 2 rhabdomyosarcomas, 6 osteosarcomas, and 2 phaeochromocytomas. Of the 55 neuroblastoma samples analyzed, 54 expressed clearly detectable levels of both genes. The one sample that did not express either of the genes was rediagnosed both clinically and by molecular genetic analysis as a Ewing's sarcoma. Of the 29 non-neuroblastoma tumor samples examined, the only tumor samples that expressed clearly detectable levels of both tyrosine hydroxylase and dopa decarboxylase were phaeochromocytomas. Like neuroblastomas, these tumors are characterized by high levels of catecholamines. These findings suggest that expression of genes involved in catecholamine biosynthesis may be useful for differentiating neuroblastoma from other small round-cell tumors of childhood.
CREB mediates the cAMP-responsiveness of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene: use of an antisense RNA strategy to produce CREB-deficient PC12 cell lines.	cAMP initiates the PKA signaling cascade in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells, resulting in transcriptional activation of the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene. This effect is mediated primarily through the cAMP responsive element (CRE), located at position -45 to -38 within the TH gene promoter. In this study, we applied an antisense RNA strategy to evaluate the role of the cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) in regulating TH gene expression. CREB antisense RNA expression vectors were stably introduced into PC12 cells to generate cell lines deficient in CREB. CREB protein and mRNA levels were diminished up to 90% in the stably transfected cell lines. Promoter analysis experiments demonstrated that cAMP-mediated inducibility of either TH gene proximal promoter activity or the activity of the TH CRE by itself fused upstream of a basal promoter was diminished in CREB-deficient cell lines. PKA activity in the CREB-deficient cell lines was comparable to the activity in control cell lines. In addition, neither ATF1, nor CREM proteins were significantly down-regulated in the CREB-deficient cells. Most significantly, the cAMP-inducibility of endogenous TH mRNA was completely blocked in the CREB-deficient cells, indicating that the response of the endogenous gene to cAMP was dependent on CREB. These results support the hypothesis that CREB (not other CRE-binding proteins) is the key transcription factor that is required for regulating TH gene expression in response to cAMP. Furthermore, our studies indicate that these CREB-deficient PC12 cells are excellent tools to study the participation of CREB in gene regulation.
Cell cycle roles for two 14-3-3 proteins during Drosophila development.	Drosophila 14-3-3 epsilon and 14-3-3 zeta proteins have been shown to function in RAS/MAP kinase pathways that influence the differentiation of the adult eye and the embryo. Because 14-3-3 proteins have a conserved involvement in cell cycle checkpoints in other systems, we asked (1) whether Drosophila 14-3-3 proteins also function in cell cycle regulation, and (2) whether cell proliferation during Drosophila development has different requirements for the two 14-3-3 proteins. We find that antibody staining for 14-3-3 family members is cytoplasmic in interphase and perichromosomal in mitosis. Using mutants of cyclins, Cdk1 and Cdc25(string) to manipulate Cdk1 activity, we found that the localization of 14-3-3 proteins is coupled to Cdk1 activity and cell cycle stage. Relocalization of 14-3-3 proteins with cell cycle progression suggested cell-cycle-specific roles. This notion is confirmed by the phenotypes of 14-3-3 epsilon and 14-3-3 zeta mutants: 14-3-3 epsilon is required to time mitosis in undisturbed post-blastoderm cell cycles and to delay mitosis following irradiation; 14-3-3 zeta is required for normal chromosome separation during syncytial mitoses. We suggest a model in which 14-3-3 proteins act in the undisturbed cell cycle to set a threshold for entry into mitosis by suppressing Cdk1 activity, to block mitosis following radiation damage and to facilitate proper exit from mitosis.
Anti-inflammatory effects of angiotensin II AT1 receptor antagonism prevent stress-induced gastric injury.	Stress reduces gastric blood flow and produces acute gastric mucosal lesions. We studied the role of angiotensin II in gastric blood flow and gastric ulceration during stress. Spontaneously hypertensive rats were pretreated for 14 days with the AT1 receptor antagonist candesartan before cold-restraint stress. AT1 receptors were localized in the endothelium of arteries in the gastric mucosa and in all gastric layers. AT1 blockade increased gastric blood flow by 40-50%, prevented gastric ulcer formation by 70-80% after cold-restraint stress, reduced the increase in adrenomedullary epinephrine and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA without preventing the stress-induced increase in adrenal corticosterone, decreased the stress-induced expression of TNF-alpha and that of the adhesion protein ICAM-1 in arterial endothelium, decreased the neutrophil infiltration in the gastric mucosa, and decreased the gastric content of PGE2. AT1 receptor blockers prevent stress-induced ulcerations by a combination of gastric blood flow protection, decreased sympathoadrenal activation, and anti-inflammatory effects (with reduction in TNF-alpha and ICAM-1 expression leading to reduced neutrophil infiltration) while maintaining the protective glucocorticoid effects and PGE2 release. Angiotensin II has a crucial role, through stimulation of AT1 receptors, in the production and progression of stress-induced gastric injury, and AT1 receptor antagonists could be of therapeutic benefit.
14-3-3epsilon is important for neuronal migration by binding to NUDEL: a molecular explanation for Miller-Dieker syndrome.	Heterozygous deletions of 17p13.3 result in the human neuronal migration disorders isolated lissencephaly sequence (ILS) and the more severe Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS). Mutations in PAFAH1B1 (the gene encoding LIS1) are responsible for ILS and contribute to MDS, but the genetic causes of the greater severity of MDS are unknown. Here, we show that the gene encoding 14-3-3epsilon (YWHAE), one of a family of ubiquitous phosphoserine/threonine-binding proteins, is always deleted in individuals with MDS. Mice deficient in Ywhae have defects in brain development and neuronal migration, similar to defects observed in mice heterozygous with respect to Pafah1b1. Mice heterozygous with respect to both genes have more severe migration defects than single heterozygotes. 14-3-3epsilon binds to CDK5/p35-phosphorylated NUDEL and this binding maintains NUDEL phosphorylation. Similar to LIS1, deficiency of 14-3-3epsilon results in mislocalization of NUDEL and LIS1, consistent with reduction of cytoplasmic dynein function. These results establish a crucial role for 14-3-3epsilon in neuronal development by sustaining the effects of CDK5 phosphorylation and provide a molecular explanation for the differences in severity of human neuronal migration defects with 17p13.3 deletions.
Identification of bone marrow stromal cells and expression of tyrosine hydroxylase gene in them]	The study is to establish the method of isolation and identification of bone marrow stromal cells and to investigate the ability of bone marrow stromal cells to accept and express TH gene. Cells were isolated by a density gradient (lymphocytes separation) and identified by BrdU labeling and fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) technology using CD11b, CD45 and CD90 antibodies. TH and lacZ gene were transfected to rBMSCs with an adeno-associated virus vector. The results showed that most tightly adherent cells in the primary culture were fibroblast-like and formed foci of two to four cells. The cells in the foci remained dormant for 2 to 4 days and then began to multiply rapidly. After several passages, the adherent cells became more uniformly spindle-shaped in appearance. BrdU, indicating that BMSCs replicate actively, labeled about 74.9% of cultured cells. Data from FACS showed that about 75% of isolated cells were CD90(+)/CD45(-)/CD11b(-), which is the marker of bone marrow stromal cells. The efficiency of TH gene transfection was about 75%. BMSCs could readily be genetically engineered and could be useful delivery targets of gene therapy for Parkinson's disease.
Polyglutamines placed into context.	Nine inherited neurodegenerative disorders result from polyglutamine expansions. Two recently published papers on spinocerebellar ataxia type 1, together with studies on spinobulbar muscular atrophy last year, indicate that host protein context is the key arbiter of polyglutamine disease protein toxicity. This insight may represent the most important development in the field since the recognition of nuclear inclusions or the propensity of polyglutamine to aggregate. Indeed, an intimate and inextricable relationship may exist between polyglutamine neurotoxicity and the normal interactions, domains, modifications, and functions of the respective disease proteins.
Dlx transcription factors regulate differentiation of dopaminergic neurons of the ventral thalamus.	Recent studies have provided many lines of evidence that specific homeodomain factors act to regulate differentiation into specific neuron types. However, these studies have mainly focused on the caudal CNS, while in the forebrain, the regulation of neuron specification remains relatively unknown. To investigate the genetic regulatory networks that control neuron differentiation in the forebrain, we have analyzed the expression patterns and functions of DLX homeodomain factors in the ventral thalamus of early mouse embryos. During initial neurogenesis (E9.5-E10.5), DLX(+) cells are the first progenitors to make terminal divisions and differentiate as neurons. We have defined a set of regulatory genes coexpressed with DLX, in both progenitors (PAX6 and MASH1) and in the differentiating neurons (PAX6, along with a combination of LIM-type homeodomain factors, including ISL1, Lhx1/Lim1, and Lhx5/Lim2). These initial neurons express tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and become the PAX6-expressing A13 dopaminergic neurons of the zona incerta. To test for DLX function, the initial differentiation of the ventral thalamic neurons was examined in embryos mutant for Dlx1 and Dlx2. Dlx1/2 double homozygous mutants formed ventral thalamic neurons, but these neurons lacked PAX6, ISL1, and TH expression. These data suggest that DLX genes act as forebrain-specific factors linking general neuron-inducing signals to region-specific neuron differentiation programs.
Ex vivo gene therapy in the treatment of Parkinson s disease]	Taking into account the growing development and application of in vivo and ex vivo gene therapy in neurodegenerative disorders we review this kind of therapy applications in Parkinson s disease.
Effects of long-term voluntary exercise on the mouse hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis.	We studied the effects of long-term (i.e. 4 wk) voluntary exercise on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis in male mice. Voluntary exercise was provided by giving mice access to a running wheel, in which they indeed ran for about 4 km/d. Exercising mice showed similar body weights as control animals but presented less abdominal fat, lighter thymuses, and heavier adrenal glands. Exercise resulted in asymmetric structural changes in the adrenal glands. Whereas control mice had larger left than right adrenals, this condition was abolished in exercising animals, mainly because of enlargement of the right adrenal cortex. Tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA expression in the adrenal medullas of exercising mice was increased. In exercising mice, early-morning baseline plasma ACTH levels were decreased, whereas plasma corticosterone levels at the start of the dark phase were twice as high as those in control animals. To forced swimming and restraint stress, exercising mice responded with higher corticosterone levels than those of the control animals but with similar ACTH levels. However, if exposed to a novel environment, then exercising mice presented decreased ACTH responses. Interestingly, exercising mice showed a decreased corticosterone response to novelty only when the novel environment contained a functioning running wheel. Glucocorticoid receptor levels were unchanged, whereas mineralocorticoid receptor levels were decreased, in hippocampus of exercising animals. Corticotropin-releasing factor mRNA levels in the paraventricular nucleus were lower in exercising mice. Thus, voluntary exercise results in complex, adaptive changes at various levels within the HPA axis as well as in sympathoadrenomedullary and limbic/neocortical afferent control mechanisms. These changes seem to underlie the differential responsiveness of the HPA axis to physical vs. emotional challenges.
Molecular genetics in the analysis of suicide.	Each year, one million people die of suicide. Among the different identified risk factors, genetic factors seem to be part of a multidimensional behavior, including psychiatric, psychosocial, biological factors and physical illness. Family studies have provided evidence for familial transmission in suicide, confirmed in twin and adoption studies. At a molecular level, serotonin seems to be one of the key neurotransmitters implicated in suicidal behavior. Therefore, genes coding for proteins involved in serotonergic neurotransmission have been extensively studied in case-control association studies on suicide. Major findings concern Tryptophan hydroxylase (TPH) gene, particularly in violent suicidal behavior. Though they may seem contradictory, studies on Serotonin transporter (5-HTT), Monaomine oxidase (MAOA), Serotonin 2A and 2C receptors (5-HT2A and 5-HT2C) and Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) genes are promising. In spite of those observations having some limitations, it appears that genetic factors are a serious risk factor, besides environmental aspects of suicidal behavior.
Tyrosinase: a developmentally specific major determinant of peripheral dopamine.	L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine, the immediate precursor of dopamine, can be formed by two enzymes: tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in catecholamine-producing neurons and chromaffin cells and tyrosinase in melanocytes. In this study we examined whether tyrosinase contributes to production of dopamine. Deficiency of TH caused marked reductions in norepinephrine in albino and pigmented 15-day-old mice. In contrast, peripheral levels of dopamine were reduced only in albino TH-deficient mice and were higher in pigmented than in albino mice, regardless of the presence or absence of TH. We next examined age-related changes in dopamine and cutaneous expression of tyrosinase and melanin in albino and pigmented TH wild-type mice. We found that the differences in peripheral dopamine between pigmented and albino mice disappeared with advancing age following changes in expression and function of tyrosinase. In young animals, tyrosinase was present in epidermis but did not produce detectable melanin. With advancing age, tyrosinase was localized only around hair follicles, melanin synthesis became more pronounced, and dopamine synthesis decreased. The data reveal a previously unrecognized TH-independent major pathway of peripheral dopamine synthesis in young, but not adult, mice. The transient nature of this source of dopamine reflects a developmental switch in tyrosinase-dependent production of dopamine to production of melanin.
Nephrin and CD2AP associate with phosphoinositide 3-OH kinase and stimulate AKT-dependent signaling.	Mutations of NPHS1 or NPHS2, the genes encoding nephrin and podocin, as well as the targeted disruption of CD2-associated protein (CD2AP), lead to heavy proteinuria, suggesting that all three proteins are essential for the integrity of glomerular podocytes, the visceral glomerular epithelial cells of the kidney. It has been speculated that these proteins participate in common signaling pathways; however, it has remained unclear which signaling proteins are actually recruited by the slit diaphragm protein complex in vivo. We demonstrate that both nephrin and CD2AP interact with the p85 regulatory subunit of phosphoinositide 3-OH kinase (PI3K) in vivo, recruit PI3K to the plasma membrane, and, together with podocin, stimulate PI3K-dependent AKT signaling in podocytes. Using two-dimensional gel analysis in combination with a phosphoserine-specific antiserum, we demonstrate that the nephrin-induced AKT mediates phosphorylation of several target proteins in podocytes. One such target is Bad; its phosphorylation and inactivation by 14-3-3 protects podocytes against detachment-induced cell death, suggesting that the nephrin-CD2AP-mediated AKT activity can regulate complex biological programs. Our findings reveal a novel role for the slit diaphragm proteins nephrin, CD2AP, and podocin and demonstrate that these three proteins, in addition to their structural functions, initiate PI3K/AKT-dependent signal transduction in glomerular podocytes.
The 14-3-3 proteins: gene, gene expression, and function.	14-3-3 proteins were discovered by Moore and Perez in the soluble extract of bovine brain. These proteins are highly abundant in the brain. In this review 14-3-3 cDNA cloning, nucleotide sequence of 14-3-3 cDNA, the structure of 14-3-3 gene and 14-3-3 gene expression, in situ hybridization of 14-3-3 mRNA in the brain, the function and regulation of 14-3-3 protein, the binding of 14-3-3 protein to other proteins, the effects of 14-3-3 protein on the binding of a protein to other proteins, and the effect on protein kinase, etc., are concisely described. From the recent rapid development of proteom technology, markedly more target proteins of 14-3-3 protein should be discovered.
Regulation of noradrenergic function by inflammatory cytokines and depolarization.	Although the sympathetic neurons innervating the heart are exposed to the inflammatory cytokines cardiotrophin-1 (CT-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha) after myocardial infarction, the effects of these cytokines on noradrenergic function are not well understood. We used cultured sympathetic neurons to investigate the effects of these cytokines on catecholamine content, the tyrosine hydroxylase co-factor, tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), and norepinephrine (NE) uptake. CT-1, but not IL-6 or TNFalpha, suppressed NE uptake and catecholamines in these neurons, whereas CT-1 and, to a lesser extent, IL-6 decreased BH4 content. CT-1 exerted these effects by decreasing tyrosine hydroxylase, GTP cyclohydrolase (GCH) and NE transporter mRNAs, while IL-6 lowered only GCH mRNA. The neurons innervating the heart are also activated by the central nervous system after myocardial infarction. We examined the combined effect of depolarization and cytokines on noradrenergic function. In CT-1-treated cells, depolarization caused a small increase in BH4 and NE uptake, and a large increase in catecholamines. These changes were accompanied by increased TH, GCH and NE transporter mRNAs. CT-1 and depolarization regulate expression of noradrenergic properties in an opposing manner, and the combined treatment results in elevated cellular catecholamines and decreased NE uptake relative to control cells.
Sequences that direct rat tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression.	Investigation of neuroendocrine genes has revealed that transcription is regulated via multiple DNA binding sites, including the cyclic AMP response element (CRE). We show here that for the neuronal and chromaffin-specific gene tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a 70-bp region (-229 to -160) lacking the CRE is sufficient, in either orientation, to confer levels of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter expression equivalent to or greater than that conferred by 4.8 kb of the rat TH enhancer/promoter region. The 70-bp region contains potential binding sites for AP2, AP1, E2A/MyoD, and POU transcription factors, and functions when linked to the TH promoter, but not when joined to a heterologous RSV promoter. This demonstrates that promoter as well as enhancer elements are important for TH expression. In gel-shift assays, the 70-bp fragment forms a cell type-specific complex with nuclear extracts from TH-expressing cells. which is effectively competed by an oligonucleotide containing AP2, AP1, and E2A/MyoD (E box) sites, but not by one containing the POU site. These data suggest that the AP2, AP1, and/or E box sites may be involved in forming the cell-specific complex. Although it lacks an authentic CRE, the 70-bp region also mediated a twofold transcriptional response to forskolin, equivalent to that found with the endogenous gene. A different region (-60 to -29) bearing a consensus CRE mediated a sixfold increase in transcription in response to forskolin, but only minimally activated basal transcription from the TH promoter in the absence of forskolin.
Regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase mRNA levels in rat adrenals by a single and repeated immobilization stress.	Adrenal catecholamines are known to mediate many of the physiological consequences of the "fight or flight" response to stress. However, the mechanisms by which the long-term responses to repeated stress are mediated are less well understood and possibly involve alterations in gene expression. In this study the effects of a single and repeated immobilization stress on mRNA levels of the adrenal catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes, tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase, were examined. A repeated 2-hr daily immobilization for 7 consecutive days markedly elevated both tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase mRNA levels (about six- and fourfold, respectively). In contrast, tyrosine hydroxylase but not dopamine beta-hydroxylase mRNA levels were elevated immediately following a single immobilization. The elevation in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA with a single immobilization was as high as with seven daily repeated immobilizations. This elevation was not sustained and returned toward control values 24 hr later. Both tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase mRNA levels were elevated immediately following two daily immobilizations to levels similar to those observed after seven immobilizations and were maintained 24 hr later. The results indicate that both tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine beta-hydroxylase mRNA levels are elevated by stress; however, the mechanism and/or timing of their regulation are not identical.
The D4 dopamine receptor (DRD4) maps to distal 11p close to HRAS.	Dopaminergic pathophysiology is important in several psychiatric illnesses. The recently cloned D4 dopamine receptor gene (DRD4) shows considerable homology to the D2 and D3 dopamine receptors (DRD2 and DRD3); pharmacologically, its affinity for the atypical antipsychotic clozapine is much higher than that of these other dopamine receptors. Probe pB28 for this locus recognizes an informative HincII polymorphism. We typed this polymorphism on several large reference families (a total of about 271 individuals) to place DRD4 in the genetic linkage map. Pairwise linkage analysis (using ILINK) provided evidence for close linkage to the distal 11p loci tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and the Harvey ras oncogene (HRAS). We used our version of LINKMAP adapted to run under distributed parallel processing (Linda-LINKMAP) for an analysis moving DRD4 across a fixed map with HRAS set 3.8 cM distal to TH. This localized DRD4 close to HRAS, with no crossovers observed between those loci and a maximum lod score of 19.9 (2 cM distal to HRAS). The one LOD unit support interval extends from about 1 cM proximal to HRAS to 8 cM distal to HRAS. Crossovers identified in one kindred place DRD4 distal to TH, providing further evidence for its location close to HRAS, making DRD4 one of the most telomeric of 11p markers. (This also places DRD4 in band 11p15.5.)
Temporal changes in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA levels in A1, A2 and locus ceruleus neurons following electrical stimulation of A1 noradrenergic neurons.	We examined the effects of electrical stimulation (ES) of right A1 noradrenergic cells on temporal changes in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA levels in A1, A2 and locus ceruleus (LC) neurons by in situ hybridization histochemistry and quantitative image analysis methods. The stimulation parameters used previously have been shown to increase hypothalamic norepinephrine (NE) release. Within 1 h after beginning A1 stimulation, TH mRNA levels were significantly increased and they continued to rise to reach plateau by 6 h. TH message levels at 12 h were not difference from 6 h values. A1-ES did not affect TH mRNA levels in contralateral A1 or in A2 or locus ceruleus neurons. These data suggest that changes in TH mRNA levels may serve as an index of increased A1 neuronal activity in circumstances when increases in hypothalamic NE secretion occur.
Chronic selegiline administration transiently decreases tyrosine hydroxylase activity and mRNA in the rat nigrostriatal pathway.	Selegiline, a selective monoamine oxidase type B inhibitor, is beneficial in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. However, this beneficial effect is only transient, and patients must ultimately resort to treatment with standard levodopa therapy. We studied the effects of chronic selegiline treatment on the rat nigrostriatal pathway, to elucidate a neurochemical correlate for this adaptive clinical response. Selegiline treatment for 3, 7, 14, or 21 days decreased tyrosine hydroxylase (the enzyme that catalyzes the rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis) activity in the cell body regions (substantia nigra) of the nigrostriatal pathway. However, tyrosine hydroxylase activity measurements in the major terminal field region (corpus striatum) of the pathway did not correspond to those in the substantia nigra; in the corpus striatum, tyrosine hydroxylase activity was decreased at 3 and 7 days of treatment and recovered by 14 days. We tested whether the decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase activity was mediated by a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA. Northern blot and RNA dot blot analyses (using a tyrosine hydroxylase-specific cDNA probe) of substantia nigra homogenates revealed a significant decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA at 3, 7, and 14 days of selegiline treatment, compared with controls. Conversely, after 21 days of selegiline, tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA levels were significantly higher (3-fold) than controls; this finding was not reflected in substantia nigra tyrosine hydroxylase activity. The 21-day increase in mRNA may be associated with the rebound in tyrosine hydroxylase activity observed in the corpus striatum. Thus, it is possible that the recovery in tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the corpus striatum is mediated through an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase protein transport from the substantia nigra to the corpus striatum and/or that the tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme exists in a more stabilized state during this period of time. These results demonstrate that monoamine oxidase type B-selective inhibitory doses of selegiline are capable of inducing transient decreases in tyrosine hydroxylase activity and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA levels. Furthermore, these reversible effects may represent adaptive responses associated with pharmacological tolerance and the transient beneficial actions of this drug in Parkinson's disease.
Slow changes of tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression in dopaminergic brain neurons after neurotoxin lesioning: a model for neuron aging.	Slow neuron regression develops during the adult phase of life in select brain systems of mammals. We describe a model in adult rats that resolves several phases in a slow atrophic process that differentially influences levels of mRNA and protein for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Responses of striatal dopaminergic markers to 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesions in rats indicated that the striatal terminals maintained TH protein, despite greater than 3-fold loss of TH mRNA in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC) cell bodies whose axons project to the striatum. The loss of TH mRNA/cell was progressive up to 9 months, whereas SNC cell body shrinkage stabilized by 3 months post-lesioning. Consideration of possible mechanisms in protein turnover motivated a search for PEST motifs in the TH of rats and other vertebrates that could be a point of regulation by altering the rate of TH protein turnover.
Differential regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase, neuropeptide Y and galanin gene expression in the pons and medulla oblongata following chronic oral administration of 2% saline: a combined in situ hybridisation and immunohistochemical study.	In situ hybridisation histochemistry and immunohistochemistry was used to study the response of the noradrenergic A6 and A2 cell groups in the rat following oral administration of 2% saline for 12 days. Messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) encoding tyrosine hydroxylase and neuropeptide Y increased by 85 and 65%, respectively (p less than 0.05) in A6, while levels in A2 were unaltered after saline ingestion. The observed changes in mRNA were accompanied by increased expression of neuropeptide Y and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivities in A6 neurons, whereas A2 neurons were unaffected. In contrast, mRNA encoding galanin, which is also colocalised with noradrenaline in A6 cells, was unaltered by osmotic stimulation. Our results suggest that noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y transmitter systems in the A6 group are activated whereas the galanin transmitter system remains unaffected during saline ingestion.
Characterization of a novel RNA polymerase II arrest site which lacks a weak 3' RNA-DNA hybrid.	Transcript elongation by RNA polymerase II is blocked at DNA sequences called arrest sites. An exceptionally weak RNA-DNA hybrid is often thought to be necessary at the point of arrest. We have identified an arrest site from the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene which does not fit this pattern. Transcription of many sequence variants of this site shows that the RNA-DNA hybrid over the three bases immediately preceding the major arrest point may be strong (i.e. C:G) without interfering with arrest. However, arrest at the TH site requires the presence of a pyrimidine at the 3' end and arrest increases when the 3'-most segment is pyrimidine rich. We also demonstrated that arrest at the TH site is completely dependent on the presence of a purine-rich element immediately upstream of the RNA-DNA hybrid. Thus, the RNA polymerase II arrest element from the TH gene has several unanticipated characteristics: arrest is independent of a weak RNA-DNA hybrid at the 3' end of the transcript, but it requires both a pyrimidine at the 3' end and a polypurine element upstream of the RNA-DNA hybrid.
Affinity methods for phosphorylation-dependent interactions.	14-3-3s are a highly conserved protein family that exert many regulatory roles in eukaryotic cells by binding to phosphopeptide motifs in diverse target proteins. Here, we describe 14-3-3 affinity binding procedures that can be used to purify and identify 14-3-3-binding phosphoproteins; monitor how their phosphorylation and 14-3-3 binding is regulated by extracellular stimuli; define the functional effects of 14-3-3s on individual targets; and identify relevant protein phosphatases and kinases. In principle, these methods could be adapted to characterize other types of protein-protein interaction that depend on covalent modification of target sites.
Association between molecular markers and blast resistance in an advanced backcross population of rice.	An advanced backcross population consisting of 80 BC(3)F(3) lines derived from rice vars. Vandana/ Moroberekan was analysed for blast resistance and genotyped with 50 candidate genes and 23 simple sequence repeat (SSR) markers. Six candidate defence response genes [thaumatin, three nucleotide-binding site-leucine-rich repeat sequences from maize and two resistance gene analogue (RGA) markers] and one SSR marker (RM21) were significantly associated with partial blast resistance in rice ( P=0.01). These markers accounted for phenotypic variation ranging from 9.6% to 29.4% and contributed to 76% of the total variation of percentage diseased leaf area (DLA) observed under natural infection. Four candidate genes (oxalate oxidase, 14-3-3 protein and two RGA markers) and four SSR markers (RM21, RM168, RM215 and RM250) were significantly associated with resistance to a single pathogen isolate, PO6-6. Among these, two markers were for DLA, five for lesion number and one for lesion size. These markers accounted for 9.1-28.7% of the phenotypic variation. A moderate correlation ( r=0.48, P<0.01) was found between the level of partial resistance measured in the greenhouse and that measured under natural conditions. Analysis of BC(3)F(4) progeny using genotypes of BC(3)F(3) confirmed the phenotypic contribution of these markers. Cluster analysis of DNA profiles showed that the BC(3) population was genetically similar (>85%) to the recurrent parent Vandana. Although no obvious relationship between DNA profiles and resistant phenotypes was observed, three lines (VM19, VM46 and VM76) in a cluster with high similarity to Vandana (89-96%) expressed a high level of partial blast resistance in the field. Analysis of disease progress in the field confirmed the performance of selected lines based on greenhouse and nursery analyses. The advanced backcross progeny with resistance phenotypes tagged by markers will be useful for accumulating blast resistance in upland rice.
Nicotine dependence in a prospective population-based study of adolescents: the protective role of a functional tyrosine hydroxylase polymorphism.	Dopamine is a key neurotransmitter of the mesolimbic reward pathway in the human brain, and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in dopamine biosynthesis. Consequently, the gene encoding TH is a strong candidate for involvement in the genetic component of addiction. The importance of this gene in nicotine dependence is supported by many studies showing a link between nicotine administration and TH expression. A functional tetranucleotide repeat polymorphism within intron 1 of the TH gene (HUMTH01-VNTR) has been shown to modify tobacco use in two independent Caucasian samples from the USA and Australia. Using information drawn from an eight-wave Australian population-based longitudinal study of adolescent health, we tested the effect of the HUMTH01-VNTR on nicotine dependence. Comparisons were made between dependent smokers and non-dependent smokers. These data provide further support for a protective association between the K4 allele and dependent smoking (odds ratio 0.54, 95% confidence interval 0.28-1.0). No associations were observed at any of three other common TH polymorphisms (rs6356, rs6357 and HUMTH01-PstI). Including these data, three independent studies, two of which use identical phenotypes, have now identified a protective relationship between the K4 allele of the functional HUMTH01-VNTR polymorphism and high-level smoking.
Nuclear localization and interaction of RolB with plant 14-3-3 proteins correlates with induction of adventitious roots by the oncogene rolB.	The rooting-locus gene B (rolB) on the T-DNA of the root-inducing (Ri) plasmid in Agrobacterium rhizogenes is responsible for the induction of transformed adventitious roots, although the root induction mechanism is unknown. We report here that the RolB protein of pRi1724 (1724RolB) is associated with Nicotianatabacum14-3-3-like protein omegaII (Nt14-3-3 omegaII) in tobacco bright yellow (BY)-2 cells. Nt14-3-3 omegaII directly interacts with 1724RolB protein. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-fused 1724RolB is localized to the nucleus. GFP-fused mutant 1724RolB proteins having a deletion or amino acid substitution are unable to interact with Nt14-3-3 omegaII and also show impaired nuclear localization. Moreover, these 1724RolB mutants show decreased capacity for adventitious root induction. These results suggest that adventitious root induction by 1724RolB protein correlates with its interaction with Nt14-3-3 omegaII and the nuclear localization of 1724RolB protein.
Effect of intracerebroventricular injection of lipopolysaccharide on the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic system of the rat.	Numerous studies indicate that monoaminergic systems are sensitive to both peripheral and central inflammatory stimuli, and in particular dopaminergic neurons in the nigrostriatal system degenerate after local injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). However, data about the response of other dopaminergic groups to local inflammation are very sparse. In this study, we have examined the effect of i.c.v. injection of LPS on the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) system by using biochemical and morphological parameters. Our results show that 6 h after i.c.v. injection of LPS, in parallel to a transient and intense immunoreaction to interleukin-1beta in arcuate microglial cells, there is a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity in the median eminence and in the number of TH- and TH mRNA-positive cells in the arcuate nucleus, and at 12 h, an increase of prolactin levels in serum. Posterior changes were found in the TH mRNA labeling pattern, mostly in the ventrolateral region of the arcuate nucleus, but they were not accompanied by any changes in TH activity and immunoreactivity and TH-cell count. This suggests that the TIDA system is functionally susceptible to local inflammation, but the effects are transient and do not induce neurodegeneration.
Response of tyrosine hydroxylase and GTP cyclohydrolase I gene expression to estrogen in brain catecholaminergic regions varies with mode of administration.	The effect of different dose, mode and duration of estradiol administration was examined in the different brain catecholaminergic areas in ovariectomized (OVX) female rats. We determined changes in mRNA levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine (CA) biosynthesis of GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH), rate-limiting enzyme in biosynthesis as well as of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), and concentration of BH4, which is an essential cofactor for TH, tryptophan hydroxylase and nitric oxide synthase. Short-term administration of estradiol benzoate (EB) by five injections of 15 or 40 microg/kg 12 h apart led to increase in TH and GTPCH mRNA levels in dopaminergic and noradrenergic cell bodies of the ventral tegmental area (VTA), substantia nigra (SN), locus coeruleus (LC) and the nucleus of solitary tract (NTS) depending on dose of administration. Estrogen-elicited alterations in BH4 concentrations were mostly correlated with changes in GTPCH mRNA levels, except in SN. Long-term administration of estradiol by injections (EB: 25 microg/kg, 16 injections 26 h apart; 50 microg/kg, 16 injections 48 h apart) or pellets (0.1 mg 17 beta-estradiol, 14 days) were not very effective in modulating mRNA levels for both genes in most locations except the NTS. Long-term injections of EB elevated GTPCH mRNA levels throughout the NTS and in microvessels. Administration of estradiol by pellets led to decline of TH mRNA in rostral-medial and elevation in caudal parts of the NTS. Thus, estradiol has a complex and differential effect on TH and GTPCH gene expression in a tissue specific manner and depends on the mode of administration.
Somatic and axonal effects of ATP via P2X2 but not P2X7 receptors in rat thoracolumbar sympathetic neurones.	Excitatory ATP responses in rat cultured thoracolumbar sympathetic neurones are mediated by somatic P2X(2) receptors. The present study investigated a possible role of axonal P2X(2) as well as P2X(7) receptors on the same preparation. Confocal laser scanning microscopy demonstrated P2X(2) and P2X(7) immunoreactivity along the axons as well as P2X(7) immunoreactivity surrounding the cell nuclei. P2X(7) mRNA expression was detected in individual neurones using a single-cell RT-PCR approach. Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) caused a significant increase in axonal Ca(2+) concentration which was dependent on external Ca(2+) but insensitive to depletion of the cellular Ca(2+) pools by cyclopiazonic acid. Pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonate (PPADS; 30 micro m) virtually abolished the ATP response, whereas brilliant blue G (0.1 micro m), a selective P2X(7) receptor antagonist, had no effect. Dibenzoyl-ATP (BzATP; 100 micro m) induced a much smaller increase in axonal [Ca(2+)] concentration than ATP at equimolar concentrations. The response to BzATP was distinctly reduced by PPADS but not by brilliant blue G. The overall pharmacological profile of the axonal P2X receptors resembled closely that of the somatic P2X(2) receptors. In conclusion, the present data suggest the occurrence of axonal excitatory P2X(2) receptors in thoracolumbar sympathetic neurones. However, the functional significance of axonal and (peri)-nuclear P2X(7) receptors has still to be proven.
c-ret regulates cholinergic properties in mouse sympathetic neurons: evidence from mutant mice.	The search for signalling systems regulating development of noradrenergic and cholinergic sympathetic neurons is a classical problem of developmental neuroscience. While an essential role of bone morphogenetic proteins for induction of noradrenergic properties is firmly established, factors involved in the development of cholinergic traits in vivo are still enigmatic. Previous studies have shown that the c-ret receptor and cholinergic properties are coexpressed in chick sympathetic neurons. Using in situ hybridization we show now that a loss-of-function mutation of the c-ret receptor in mice dramatically reduces numbers of cells positive for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) in stellate ganglia of homozygous newborn animals. The number of neurons positive for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA, the rate-limiting enzyme of noradrenaline synthesis, is reduced to a smaller degree and expression levels are not detectably altered. Already at embryonic day 16 (E16), ChAT and VAChT-positive cells are affected by the c-ret mutation. At E14, however, ChAT and VAChT mRNAs are detectable at low levels and no difference is observed between wildtype and mutant mice. Our data suggest that c-ret signalling is necessary for the maturation of cholinergic sympathetic neurons but dispensable for de novo induction of ChAT and VAChT expression.
Examination of stress-related genes in human temporal versus occipital cortex in the course of neurodegeneration: involvement of 14-3-3 zeta in this dynamic process.	The progressive invasion of the brain by neurofibrillary tangles characterized by paired helical filaments (PHF) along a precise network is stereotypical and hierarchical from normal aging to severe Alzheimer's disease. We describe here the differential expression of genes in the temporal area with PHF compared with the occipital area non-affected by PHF in cases with cognitive impairment versus the same cortical regions of control human brains without PHF. A stronger overexpression for 14-3-3 zeta gene is demonstrated in the affected temporal cortex of cases with cognitive impairment than in cases with normal mental status. This data obtained directly from human brains confirmed a 14-3-3 zeta implication in the Alzheimer's neuropathology.
Dominant negative 14-3-3 promotes cardiomyocyte apoptosis in early stage of type I diabetes mellitus through activation of JNK.	14-3-3 family members are dimeric, phosphoserine binding proteins that regulate signal transduction, apoptotic, and checkpoint control pathways. Recently, cardiomyocyte apoptosis has been characterized in type I diabetes mellitus. In order to study the molecular mechanism underlying diabetes-induced cardiomyocyte apoptosis, we examined the role of 14-3-3 protein and MAPK pathways in transgenic mice with cardiac specific expression of dominant negative 14-3-3eta (DN-14-3-3). p38 MAPK was highly activated 1, 28, and 56 days after diabetes induction by streptozotocin, whereas peak JNK activation was found on day 3 and decreased afterwards. In contrast, ERK1/2 were not activated in diabetic myocardium. Cardiomyocyte apoptosis was peaked on day 3 and decreased on 7, 28, and 56 days. p38 MAPK and JNK activation as well as cardiomyocyte apoptosis were greatly increased in DN-14-3-3 mice relative to non-transgenic mice. Moreover, we found a significant correlation between JNK activation and apoptosis in diabetic myocardium. These results indicate for the first time that 14-3-3 protein plays a critical anti-apoptotic role in diabetic myocardium by inhibiting the JNK pathway.
Life-long serotonin reuptake deficiency results in complex alterations in adrenomedullary responses to stress.	This study examined whether serotonin transporter (SERT) deficiency influences adrenal serotonin (5-HT), catecholamine and Angiotensin II (Ang II) systems, and the hormonal response to acute restraint stress. Control SERT mice (+/+) expressed high numbers of SERT binding sites in adrenal medulla. Fifteen minutes of restraint stress increased adrenal 5-HT, adrenomedullary tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression and plasma epinephrine (EPI), and norepinephrine levels without alterations in adrenal catecholamine content. In SERT+/+, these responses coincided with a significant increase in adrenomedullary Ang II AT(2) receptor expression. SERT-deficient mice did not express SERT binding sites; their adrenal 5-HT was significantly depleted and further reduced after stress. They had exaggerated stress-induced EPI release into plasma, the increase in TH transcription did not occur, adrenal catecholamine content was decreased compared with SERT+/+, and stress induced a reduction rather than increase in the number of adrenomedullary AT(2) receptors. SERT-/- mice also possessed decreased pituitary 5-HT. Their pituitary ACTH was reduced after stress, but stress-induced increases in plasma ACTH and corticosterone were not different from those of SERT+/+ mice. Our results indicate that SERT function not only restrains stress-induced EPI release but also is required for the increase in adrenal catecholamine synthesis and AT(2) receptor expression.
Angiotensin II AT1 and AT2 receptor types regulate basal and stress-induced adrenomedullary catecholamine production through transcriptional regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase.	The sympathoadrenal response to stress includes a profound increase in adrenomedullary catecholamine synthesis driven by stimulation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) transcription. We studied the role of Angiotensin II type 1 and 2 (AT(1) and AT(2)) receptors during isolation stress, and under basal conditions. Pretreatment of rats with the AT(1) receptor antagonist candesartan for 14 days prior to isolation completely prevented the stress-induced stimulation of catecholamine synthesis, decreasing tyrosine hydroxylase transcription by preventing the expression of the transcriptional factor, Fos-related antigen 2 (Fra-2). In addition, AT(1) receptor antagonism prevented the stress-induced increase in adrenomedullary AT(2) receptor binding and protein. Treatment of non-stressed, grouped animals under basal conditions with the AT(1) receptor or with PD 123319, an AT(2) receptor antagonist, decreased the adrenomedullary norepinephrine (NE) content and TH transcription. While AT(1) receptor antagonism decreased the levels of Fra-2 and the phosphorylated forms of cAMP responsive element binding protein (pCREB) and EKR2 (p-ERK2, phosphor-p42 MAP kinase), the AT(2) antagonist decreased Fra-2 with no change in the phosphorylation of CREB or EKR2. Our results demonstrate that both adrenomedullary AT(1) and AT(2) receptor types maintain and promote the adrenomedullary catecholamine synthesis and the transcriptional regulation of TH. Instead of opposing effects, however, our results indicate a complex synergistic regulation between the AT(1) and AT(2) receptor types.
Angiotensin II AT1 receptor blockade prevents gastric ulcers during cold-restraint stress.	Cold-restraint stress reduces gastric blood flow and produces acute gastric ulcers. We studied the role of Angiotensin II (Ang II) on gastric blood flow and gastric ulceration during stress. Spontaneously hypertensive rats, a stress-sensitive strain, were pretreated for 14 days with the AT(1) receptor antagonist candesartan before cold-restraint stress. AT(1) blockade increased gastric blood flow 40% to 50%; prevented gastric ulcer formation by 70% to 80%; reduced the increase in adrenomedullary epinephrine and TH mRNA without preventing the stress-induced increase in adrenal corticosterone; decreased the stress-induced expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and adhesion protein ICAM-1 in arterial endothelium, and neutrophil infiltration in the gastric mucosa; and decreased PGE(2) content. AT(1) receptor blockers prevent stress-induced ulcerations by a combination of gastric blood flow protection, decreased sympathoadrenal activation, anti-inflammatory effects with reduction in TNF-alpha, and ICAM-1 expression, leading to reduced neutrophil infiltration while maintaining the protective glucocorticoid effects and PGE(2) release. Ang II has a crucial role, through stimulation of AT(1) receptors, in the production and progression of stress-induced gastric injury, and AT(1) receptor antagonists could be of therapeutic benefit.
Quantitative evaluation of catecholamine enzymes gene expression in adrenal medulla and sympathetic Ganglia of stressed rats.	Stress-induced changes in mRNA levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine-beta-hydroxylase (DBH), and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) have been expressed as relative arbitrary units compared with a control group. The aim of this study was to quantify basal and stress-induced levels of TH, DBH, and PNMT mRNAs in rat adrenal medulla (AM) and stellate ganglia (SG) by the RT-competitive PCR method using corresponding competitors of known concentration. In rats stressed by immobilization (IMO) once for 2 h, the concentration of mRNAs was determined in various intervals after the end of stress stimulus. In SG, the basal concentration of TH mRNA was 0.017 amol/ng of total RNA, which is approximately 30 times lower than in the AM (0.460 amol/ng RNA). The basal concentration of DBH mRNA in SG was 2.60 amol/ng of total RNA, which is about 150 times more than TH mRNA in SG but only two times less than DBH mRNA in the AM in which PNMT mRNA is present in the highest concentration. After a single 2-h IMO, the peak elevation of TH and DBH mRNA concentration in SG occurred 24 h after the termination of stress stimulus, when their AM mRNA concentrations were already at control values. Presence of PNMT mRNA levels in the SG, of control and stressed rats has been demonstrated for the first time. Repeated IMO (7 days, 2 h daily) did not produce further increase in the mRNA concentrations compared with the elevated values found in adapted control groups. Levels of TH protein were significantly increased only after repeated IMO in SG and AM. Thus, our data show for the first time the exact concentrations of TH, DBH, and PNMT mRNA in SG and AM of rats under control and stress conditions. The lowest concentration of TH mRNA in the AM and SG supports the hypothesis that tyrosine hydroxylation is the rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis.
Molecular regulation of gene expression of catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes by stress: sympathetic ganglia versus adrenal medulla.	Stress induces tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH) gene expression in sympathetic ganglia and adrenal medulla (AM). However, distinct molecular mechanisms appear to regulate these genes in these locations. The elevation of TH mRNA in response to single immobilization stress (IMO) in AM is robust, but transient, while the induction of TH and DBH mRNAs in sympathetic ganglia is slower and more long lasting. Injections of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) elicited induction of TH and DBH gene expression in rat sympathetic ganglia, but not in AM. The superior cervical (SCG) and stellate (StG) ganglia, but not AM, were found to express mRNA for the MC-2 receptor, the major ACTH responsive receptor in adrenal cortex. IMO led to increase in MC-2 receptor mRNA levels in SCG. Thus, ACTH, via the MC-2 receptor, may be directly involved in the stress-elicited regulation of norepinephrine biosynthesis in sympathetic ganglia. The signaling pathways triggered by IMO differed in these locations. In AM, IMO triggered activation of the MAP kinase, JNK, and induction of AP1 factors, Egr1 and phosphorylation of CREB. In contrast in the SCG, with IMO we did not observe changes in JNK and little binding to the AP1 motif of the TH promoter. However, there was an increase in CREB binding to the CRE site of the TH promoter. The results reveal differential mechanisms of regulation of catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes by stress in two components of the sympathoadrenal system and should provide basis for possible selective pharmacologic interventions.
Rat tyrosine hydroxylase promoter directs tetracycline-inducible foreign gene expression in dopaminergic cell types.	A prerequisite for creating animal models in which gene expression is spatially and temporally controlled is the development of promoters to target genetic switches to specific populations of cells. Here we used the dopaminergic biosynthetic enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) to test various combinations of tetracycline (Tet) system elements to determine the optimal configuration for inducible, tissue-specific expression. The present study shows that the degree of expression and level of leakiness associated with the Tet transactivators rtTA, rtTA2S-M2, tTS/rtTA or tTS/rtTA2S-M2 was dependent upon both the promoter and cell type utilized. Specifically, CMV-driven tTS/rtTA2S-M2 exhibited the highest level of inducibility in HEK cells (approximately 1000-fold) versus the dopaminergic cell line, MN9D (approximately 70-fold). In contrast, TH-driven rtTA2S-M2 yielded the highest level of expression with the least background in dopaminergic cell types versus HEK cells. Moreover, the TH promoter could be combined with the bi-directional Tet response system, BiTetO, allowing for the co-expression and regulation of two genes in the same cell. To further test the feasibility of this system we replaced the reporter gene with human Bcl-2. Consistent with previous studies, induction of Bcl-2 expression in dopaminergic cell types attenuated cell death due to the neurotoxin, MPP+. Taken together, these data suggest that targeted, inducible gene expression can be achieved in dopaminergic cell types.
Nicotinic and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors are essential for the long-term response of tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression to chronic nicotine treatment in rat adrenal medulla.	Nicotine induces tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA by interacting with nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in cultured adrenal medullary cell systems; however, the mechanisms responsible for the induction of adrenal TH in response to systemically administered nicotine under in vivo conditions are more complex. In the present study, we tested whether nAChRs and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) participate in the induction of adrenal TH observed after long-term treatment with nicotine. Chronic nicotine treatment (1.6 mg/kg, two daily injections spaced 12 h apart for 7 days) induced TH mRNA, TH protein and TH activity in rat adrenal medulla. This induction of TH gene expression was totally blocked when an antagonist of either nAChRs or mAChRs was administered prior to each nicotine injection. Repeated injections of the mAChR agonist bethanechol (5 mg/kg injected twice per day for 7 days) also produced increases in TH mRNA levels; however, TH protein levels and TH activity did not increase in response to bethanechol. In denervated adrenal glands chronic nicotine treatment did not lead to induction of either TH mRNA, TH protein or TH activity, whereas chronic bethanechol treatment led to induction of TH mRNA, but not TH protein or activity. These results suggest that agonist occupation of both nAChRs and mAChRs are essential for the complete response of TH gene expression to chronic nicotine treatment in rat adrenal medulla, but that stimulation of either cholinergic receptor by itself is not sufficient to elicit a full response. The results also suggest that both transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanisms may potentially need to be regulated to induce TH protein in response to some stimuli.
Pterin-dependent tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA is not expressed in human melanocytes or melanoma cells.	Pterin-dependent tyrosine hydroxylase has been described to occur occasionally in melanocytes. It is therefore important to quantify the mRNA of this enzyme in pigment cells to understand whether this enzyme can take an active part in pigment formation. A real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction method was used to quantify tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in melanocytes and melanoma cells. The calibrator was obtained by amplification of a segment of cDNA from tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA, which included the target thus allowing enumeration of the number of transcripts per cell. In melanocytes (n = 3), tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA ranged from non-detectable to 0.000492 transcripts/cell and in melanoma cells from non-detectable to 0.005340 transcripts/cell. In neuroblastoma cells, the median tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA number was 0.4 transcripts/cell (range 0.02-25 transcripts/cell). The amount of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in the pigment cells was far less than the mRNA concentrations of four melanocyte-specific proteins measured in the same melanocytes and melanoma cells. We conclude that on the average less than 1 of 1000 melanocytes and melanoma cells contains at least one tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA molecule. Consequently, in 999 of 1000 cells translation into the corresponding enzyme protein cannot occur because of the lack of an mRNA template. Thus, in these cells there is no pterin-dependent tyrosine hydroxylase that can contribute to pigment formation by producing priming amounts of l-dopa for proper function of tyrosinase.
Neuroendocrine properties of intrinsic cardiac adrenergic cells in fetal rat heart.	Intrinsic cardiac adrenergic (ICA) cells in developing rat heart constitute a novel adrenergic signaling system involved in cardiac regulation. Regulatory mechanisms of ICA cells remain to be defined. Immunohistochemical study of fetal rat hearts demonstrated ICA cells with catecholamine biosynthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT). The mRNA of TH and PNMP was also detected in fetal rat hearts before sympathetic innervation. Immunoreactivity of norepinephrine transporter (NET) was localized to ICA cells in rat heart tissue and primary cell culture. For the functional study, the activity of intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) transients was quantified by a ratio fluorescent spectrometer in cultured ICA cells and myocytes. ICA cells generated spontaneous [Ca2+]i transients that were eliminated by tetrodotoxin or Ca(2+)-free solutions and showed greatly reduced amplitude with the addition of L-type Ca2+ channel blocker nifedipine. [3H]norepinephrine studies demonstrate release and uptake of norepinephrine. Functional interaction between catecholamines produced by the ICA cells and cocultured myocytes was evident by the effect of the beta-adrenergic blocker atenolol eliciting a dose-dependent reduction in the amplitude and frequency of [Ca2+]i transients of beating myocytes. Hypoxia inhibited [Ca2+]i transient activity of ICA cells, which subsequently produced a reoxygenation-mediated rebound augmentation of [Ca2+]i transients. We conclude that ICA cells are capable of catecholamine synthesis, release, and uptake. They generate spontaneous [Ca2+]i transient activity that can be regulated by oxygen tension. ICA cells may provide an alternative adrenergic supply to maintain cardiac contractile and pacemaker function at rest and during stress in the absence of sympathetic innervation.
Detection of neuroblastoma cells in bone marrow and peripheral blood by different techniques: accuracy and relationship with clinical features of patients.	Detection of metastatic tumor cells in bone marrow (BM) and peripheral blood (PB) of children with neuroblastoma is crucial for prognosis and planning of therapy. Aims of this large descriptive repeated survey were to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of different techniques in diagnostic samples obtained at several disease course time points and to correlate positive results with patient clinical features and outcome.
Nicotine and epibatidine triggered prolonged rise in calcium and TH gene transcription in PC12 cells.	The effect of epibatidine on regulation of [Ca2+]i and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) transcription was examined. Epibatidine triggers a biphasic rise in [Ca2+]i in PC12 cells similar to that observed with nicotine. There was an immediate transient increase in [Ca2+]i and a subsequent sustained second elevation. In contrast to nicotine, the epibatidine-triggered increase in [Ca2+]i was independent of activation of alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, as it was not altered by either methyllycaconitine or alpha-bungarotoxin. The second [Ca2+]i elevation involves calcium release from intracellular stores and is inhibited by dantrolene or xestospongin C. Epibatidine, like nicotine, elevated TH promoter driven reporter transcription, mostly mediated by the cyclic-AMP responsive motifs. Elevation in TH promoter activity requires Ca2+ and cAMP since it is inhibited by 1,2-bis(o-Aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic Acid Tetra (acetoxymethyl ester) (BAPTA-AM) or 2',5'-dideoxyadenosine (DDA). The results reveal that epibatidine can elevate [Ca2+]i in an alpha7 independent manner and nevertheless induce TH transcription.
Modulation of hypoglycemia-induced increases in plasma epinephrine by estrogen in the female rat.	Clinical studies have demonstrated that estrogen replacement therapy suppresses stress-induced increases in plasma catecholamines. The present study determined whether normal circulating levels of estrogen can modulate hypoglycemia-induced increases in plasma epinephrine (EPI). In anesthetized female rats, insulin-induced hypoglycemia (0.25 U/kg) increased plasma EPI concentration to a significantly greater extent in 14-day ovariectomized (OVEX) rats compared to that in sham-operated controls. In 17beta-estradiol (E2)-replaced OVEX rats, the hypoglycemia-induced rise in plasma EPI was reduced significantly when compared to that in vehicle-replaced OVEX rats. OVEX and E2 replacement had no effect on tyrosine hydroxylase or phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase mRNA levels in the adrenal medulla. In isolated adrenal medullary chromaffin cells, agonist-induced increases in intracellular Ca2+ were unaffected by 48-hr exposure to 10 nM E2. In contrast, acute (3-min) exposure to micromolar concentrations of E2 dose-dependently and reversibly inhibited agonist-induced Ca2+ transients. In addition, in OVEX rats, a constant infusion of E2 significantly reduced the insulin-induced increase in plasma EPI concentration compared to that in vehicle-infused controls. These data demonstrate that physiologic levels of circulating E2 can modulate hypoglycemia-induced increases in plasma EPI. This effect seems independent of steroid influence on adrenal medullary secretion or biosynthesis. In contrast, acute exposure to high levels of E2 can also suppress hypoglycemia-induced increases in plasma epinephrine, due at least in part to inhibition of stimulus-secretion coupling.
Mutation of regulatory serines of rat tyrosine hydroxylase to glutamate: effects on enzyme stability and activity.	Tyrosine hydroxylase is phosphorylated at four serine residues in its amino-terminus by multiple kinases. Phosphorylation of serine 40 by cAMP-dependent protein kinase results in alleviation of dopamine inhibition [J. Biol. Chem. 267 (1992) 12639]. The other serines are at positions 8, 19, and 31. The effect of phosphorylation at these serines has been investigated using mutated forms of tyrosine hydroxylase containing glutamates at the positions of the serines. The S8E, S19E, and S31E tyrosine hydroxylase variants have similar steady-state kinetic parameters and similar binding affinity for catecholamines to wild-type enzyme. The S8E, S19E, S31E, and S40E variants differ in stability at elevated temperatures. The S40E variant is the least stable, while the others are all more stable than wild-type enzyme. The increased stability of S8E, S19E, and S31E tyrosine hydroxylases may be one of the physiological effects of phosphorylation. It may also have implications for the interpretation of activities of heterogeneous mixtures of tyrosine hydroxylase which have been phosphorylated.
Restricted response of mesencephalic neural crest to sympathetic differentiation signals in the trunk.	Lineage diversification in the vertebrate neural crest may occur via instructive signals acting on pluripotent cells, and/or via early specification of subpopulations towards particular lineages. Mesencephalic neural crest cells normally form cholinergic parasympathetic neurons in the ciliary ganglion, while trunk neural crest cells normally form both catecholaminergic and cholinergic neurons in sympathetic ganglia. In contrast to trunk neural crest cells, mesencephalic neural crest cells apparently fail to express the catecholaminergic transcription factor dHAND in response to BMPs in the head environment. Here, we show that migrating quail mesencephalic neural crest cells grafted into the trunk of host chick embryos colonise the sympathetic ganglia. While many express dHAND and form tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive catecholaminergic neurons, the proportion that expresses either dHAND or TH is significantly smaller than that of quail trunk neural crest cells under the same conditions. Furthermore, the proportion of quail mesencephalic neural crest cells that is TH+ in the sympathetic ganglia decreases with time, while the proportion of TH+ quail trunk neural crest-derived cells increases. Thus, a subset of mesencephalic neural crest cells fails to express dHAND or TH in the sympathetic ganglia, while a further subset initiates but fails to maintain TH expression. Taken together, our results suggest that a subpopulation of migrating mesencephalic neural crest cells is refractory to catecholaminergic differentiation signals in the trunk. We suggest that this heterogeneity, together with local signals that repress catecholaminergic differentiation, may ensure that most ciliary neurons adopt a cholinergic fate.
Two tyrosine hydroxylase genes in teleosts.	We report the finding of two non-allelic genes encoding tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) from the diploid teleost barramundi Lates calcarifer. Barramundi TH1 is the homologue of the higher vertebrate TH genes and encodes a protein of 489 amino acids that shares 90% sequence identity to the THs of other teleost species. A second non-allelic tyrosine hydroxylase gene (TH2) encodes a protein of 472 amino acids and shares 62% identity with TH1 and the vertebrate THs. TH1 mRNA is found in the brain and kidney of barramundi while TH2 mRNA is found only in brain. The TH2 gene is also present in the genomes of the pufferfish Takifugu and zebrafish Danio. Estimates of the rates of nucleotide substitution suggest the teleost TH2 genes are selectively constrained although not to the degree seen in the TH1 genes. Differential regulation of the two TH genes is, however, indicated by differences in transcript distribution, the nature of the Ca2+-responsive elements found in the proximal promoter region and the lack of recognised phosphorylation sites in TH2. Preservation of two apparently functional TH genes in phylogenetically distant teleost species is consistent with the notion of partitioning of function between duplicate genes.
Spontaneous activity and properties of two types of principal neurons from the ventral tegmental area of rat.	We investigated the spontaneous activity and properties of freshly isolated ventral tegmental area (VTA) principal neurons by whole cell recording and single-cell RT-PCR. The VTA principal neurons, which were tyrosine hydroxylase-positive and glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67)-negative, exhibited low firing frequency and a long action potential (AP) duration. The VTA principal neurons exhibited a calretinin-positive and parvalbumin-negative Ca2+-binding protein mRNA expression pattern. The VTA principal neurons were classified into two subpopulations based on their firing frequency coefficient of variation (CV) at room temperature (21-23 degrees C): irregular-type neurons with a large CV and tonic-type neurons with a small CV. These two firing patterns were also recorded at the temperature of 34 degrees C and in nystatin-perforated patch recording. In VTA principal neurons, the AP afterhyperpolarization (AHP) amplitude contributed to the firing regularity and AHP decay slope contributed to the firing frequency. The AHP amplitude in the irregular-type VTA principal neurons was smaller than that in the tonic-type VTA principal neurons. There was no significant difference in the AHP decay slope between the two-types of VTA principal neurons. Apamin-sensitive small-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ (SK) channels contributed to the AHP and the regular firing of the tonic-type neurons but contributed little to the AHP and firing of the irregular-type neurons. In voltage-clamp tail-current analysis, in both conventional and nystatin-perforated whole cell recording, the apamin-sensitive AHP current density of the tonic-type neurons was significantly larger than that of the irregular-type neurons. We suggest that apamin-sensitive SK current contributes to intrinsic firing differences between the two subpopulations of VTA principal neurons.
In vitro and in vivo analyses of human embryonic stem cell-derived dopamine neurons.	Human embryonic stem (hES) cells, due to their capacity of multipotency and self-renewal, may serve as a valuable experimental tool for human developmental biology and may provide an unlimited cell source for cell replacement therapy. The purpose of this study was to assess the developmental potential of hES cells to replace the selectively lost midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons in Parkinson's disease. Here, we report the development of an in vitro differentiation protocol to derive an enriched population of midbrain DA neurons from hES cells. Neural induction of hES cells co-cultured with stromal cells, followed by expansion of the resulting neural precursor cells, efficiently generated DA neurons with concomitant expression of transcriptional factors related to midbrain DA development, such as Pax2, En1 (Engrailed-1), Nurr1, and Lmx1b. Using our procedure, the majority of differentiated hES cells (> 95%) contained neuronal or neural precursor markers and a high percentage (> 40%) of TuJ1+ neurons was tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)+, while none of them expressed the undifferentiated ES cell marker, Oct 3/4. Furthermore, hES cell-derived DA neurons demonstrated functionality in vitro, releasing DA in response to KCl-induced depolarization and reuptake of DA. Finally, transplantation of hES-derived DA neurons into the striatum of hemi-parkinsonian rats failed to result in improvement of their behavioral deficits as determined by amphetamine-induced rotation and step-adjustment. Immunohistochemical analyses of grafted brains revealed that abundant hES-derived cells (human nuclei+ cells) survived in the grafts, but none of them were TH+. Therefore, unlike those from mouse ES cells, hES cell-derived DA neurons either do not survive or their DA phenotype is unstable when grafted into rodent brains.
Tyrosine hydroxylase Val-81-Met polymorphism associated with early-onset alcoholism.	The present study examined the association of the Tyrosine hydroxylase Val-81-Met polymorphism with alcohol dependence. One hundred and fifty-nine patients in a psychiatric unit with alcohol dependence were genotyped as well as 92 healthy volunteers. The Val allele was more frequent in patients with alcohol dependence (69.5%) than in controls (62.5%). This effect was largely due to the association with early-onset alcoholism (77.8%), whereas no difference was noted between late-onset patients and controls. Our results suggest a role for tyrosine hydroxylase in early-onset alcoholism.
TH01, a tetrameric short tandem repeat locus in the tyrosine hydroxylase gene: association with myocardial hypertrophy and death from myocardial infarction?	TH01 is a tetrameric short tandem repeat locus located in intron 01 of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene. The tyrosine hydroxylase catalyzes the hydroxylation of L-tyrosine to L-DOPA and is the rate limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines like noradrenaline or adrenaline, which are pivotal in the regulation of blood pressure. In a clinical study a strong correlation between alleles *9.3 and *10 and essential hypertension was observed ([2] Hypertension 32: 676-682). To further investigate this association, we typed TH01 in 296 autopsy cases and correlated the genotypes to the heart weight as parameter for myocardial hypertrophy. No significant correlation was observed. Moreover, dividing the studied cases into 2 groups, one including 172 casualties from hypertension-associated diseases (myocardial infarction, left heart failure, aortic aneurysm, spontaneous intracerebral bleeding and cerebral infarction) and one consisting of 124 cases of death unrelated to hypertension, revealed similar allelic frequencies for both groups. Our data thus suggest that TH01 long alleles appear not to lead to a significant increase in the incidence of myocardial hypertrophy or other hypertension associated diseases. This could be explained by a relatively small impact of the TH01 genotype on the blood pressure or by counteraction of another mechanism related to catecholamines and their effect on the human body.
Characterization of five evolutionary conserved regions of the human tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter: implications for the engineering of a human TH minimal promoter assembled in a self-inactivating lentiviral vector system.	A DNA fragment of about 13 kb containing the human tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter was previously isolated from a genomic DNA library and sequenced. The 11 kb from the transcription start of the human TH promoter was successively joined to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) to generate a transgenic mouse model. High levels of GFP expression could be observed in TH-positive cells of the Substantia nigra of embryonic and adult mice. Intriguingly, the sequence of the human TH promoter showed a low degree of homology with the mouse and rat TH promoters. In fact, comparative analysis of the sequences of human, rat, and mouse TH promoters revealed only five small regions of high homology. These five evolutionarily conserved regions were numbered in numeric progression from the 5' end of human TH promoter. In the present study, a panel of minimal human TH promoters was generated to analyze the transcriptional activity and specificity of gene expression conferred by the five conserved regions (CRs). The series of constructs was termed 250 bp and contained the first -194 bp of the human TH promoter immediately upstream of the transcription start, the first 35 bp the human TH messenger RNA leader, plus one or more of the five CRs. All the constructs were assembled in a self-inactivating form of the latest series of lentiviral vector system based on the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). Lentiviral-mediated gene transfer was highly efficient for the in vitro transduction of human neuronal progenitor cells (hNPCs). Since a subset of hNPCs express TH following in vitro treatment with a mixture of differentiating agents, it was possible to assess specificity of expression for all the minimal human TH promoters. Overall, the successive addition of the five conserved regions produced a greater degree of specificity in induced TH-positive hNPCs, in particular after the addition of CRI (-8,917, -8,876). However, the human TH minimal promoters did not show any specificity for TH-positive differentiated mouse primary striatal and S. nigra cells, indicating a difference of TH gene regulation between the human and mouse systems. The human TH minimal promoters may provide the opportunity for the selection of TH-positive human embryonic and adult stem cells for brain transplantation experiments in animal models for Parkinson's disease.
Levodopa-responsive infantile parkinsonism due to a novel mutation in the tyrosine hydroxylase gene and exacerbation by viral infections.	Autosomal recessive forms of infantile dystonia due to mutations in the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene have been described recently. The main clinical manifestations are Segawa's disease, or infantile hypokinetic rigid Parkinsonism. Here, we report on a patient with hyperrigidity, psychomotor developmental delay, and dystonic posturing of the hands, symptoms that appeared after a viral infection at the age of 14 months. Low homovanillic acid/5-hydroxyindolacetic acid (HVA/5HIAA) ratio in cerebrospinal fluid suggested a TH deficiency. Molecular analysis revealed a novel (H246Y) and a known (D498G) compound heterozygote mutation in the TH gene. The patient showed a remarkable response to treatment with levodopa. The new mutation and the association of viral infections with the onset and worsening of symptoms are discussed.
Cannabinoid CB(1) receptors in the basal ganglia and motor response to activation or blockade of these receptors in parkin-null mice.	The endocannabinoid transmission becomes overactive in the basal ganglia in Parkinson's disease (PD), as reported in patients and animal models of this disease. In the present study, we examined the status of cannabinoid CB(1) receptors in the basal ganglia of female and male Park-2 knockout mice, a genetic model of PD that progresses with no neuronal death and that may be considered representative of early and presymptomatic parkinsonian deficits. We found an increase in the density of CB(1) receptors in the substantia nigra compared to wild-type animals with no changes in other basal ganglia, although this occurred only in females. Despite this increase, the motor inhibition caused by the acute administration of the cannabinoid agonist Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol to Park-2 knockout female mice was markedly of lesser magnitude compared with the response found in wild-type animals. By contrast, the administration of the CB(1) receptor antagonist SR141716 resulted in a hyperkinetic response in parkin-null mice, response that was almost absent in wild-type animals and that was accompanied by a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the caudate-putamen. However, parkin-null male mice exhibited normal levels of CB(1) receptors in the substantia nigra and the remaining basal ganglia, with the only exception of a small decrease in the lateral part of the caudate-putamen. This was associated with an increase in mRNA levels for superoxide dismutase in this structure. In addition, the administration of Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol to parkin-null male mice caused a motor inhibition that was significantly greater than in the case of their wild-type counterparts, and that was accompanied by an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the caudate-putamen. In summary, extending the data obtained in humans and animal models of basal ganglia neurodegeneration, changes in CB(1) receptors were also observed in parkin-null mice, a model of PD that may be considered representative of early stages of this disease. These changes are associated with differences in behavioral responses to cannabinoid agonists or antagonists between Park-2 knockout and wild-type mice, although parkin-null mice exhibited evident gender-dependent differences for both levels of CB(1) receptors and motor responses to agonists or antagonists.
Effects of naltrexone on the ethanol-induced changes in the rat central dopaminergic system.	The opioid antagonist naltrexone may reduce ethanol reward, but the underlying neurochemical mechanisms has yet to be clarified. The afferent projections to the nucleus accumbens from the ventral tegmental area (VTA) provide a potential substrate by which endogenous opioids may modulate the dopaminergic rewarding effects of ethanol. We assessed mRNA levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a major regulatory enzyme in the dopamine synthesis and levels of dopamine and its metabolites after chronic ethanol administration with and without concomitant naltrexone.
Brain transplantation of neural stem cells cotransduced with tyrosine hydroxylase and GTP cyclohydrolase 1 in Parkinsonian rats.	Neural stem cells (NSCs) of the central nervous system (CNS) recently have attracted a great deal of interest not only because of their importance in basic research on neural development, but also in terms of their therapeutic potential in neurological diseases, such as Parkinson's disease (PD). To examine if genetically modified NSCs are a suitable source for the cell and gene therapy of PD, an immortalized mouse NSC line, C17.2, was transduced with tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene and with GTP cyclohydrolase 1 (GTPCH1) gene, which are important enzymes in dopamine biosynthesis. The expression of TH in transduced C17.2-THGC cells was confirmed by RT-PCR, Western blot analysis, and immunocytochemistry, and expression of GTPCH1 by RT-PCR. The level of L-DOPA released by C17.2-THGC cells, as determined by HPLC assay, was 3793 pmol/10(6) cells, which is 760-fold higher than that produced by C17.2-TH cells, indicating that GTPCH1 expression is important for L-DOPA production by transduced C17.2 cells. Following the implantation of C17.2-THGcC NSCs into the striata of parkinsonian rats, a marked improvement in amphetamine-induced turning behavior was observed in parkinsonian rats grafted with C17.2-THGC cells but not in the control rats grafted with C17.2 cells. These results indicate that genetically modified NSCs grafted into the brain of the parkinsonian rats are capable of survival, migration, and neuronal differentiation. Collectively, these results suggest that NSCs have great potential as a source of cells for cell therapy and an effective vehicle for therapeutic gene transfer in Parkinson's disease.
Use of TH-EGFP transgenic mice as a source of identified dopaminergic neurons for physiological studies in postnatal cell culture.	The physiological and pharmacological properties of dopaminergic neurons in the brain are of major interest. Although much has been learned from cell culture studies, the physiological properties of these neurons remain difficult to study in such models because they are usually in minority and are difficult to distinguish from other non-dopaminergic neurons. Here we have taken advantage of a recently engineered transgenic mouse model expressing enhanced green fluorescence protein (EGFP) under the control of the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter to establish a more effective dopaminergic neuron cell culture model. We first evaluated the specificity of the EGFP expression. Although ectopic expression of EGFP was found in cultures derived from postnatal day 0 pups, this decreased over time in culture such that after 2 weeks, approximately 70% of EGFP-expressing neurons were dopaminergic. We next sought to validate this dopaminergic neuron culture model. We evaluated whether EGFP-expressing dopaminergic neurons displayed some of the well-established properties of dopaminergic neurons. Autoreceptor stimulation inhibited the activity of dopaminergic neurons while neurotensin receptor activation produced the opposite effect. Confocal imaging of the synaptic vesicle optical tracer FM4-64 in EGFP-expressing dopaminergic neurons demonstrated the feasibility of high resolution monitoring of the activity of single terminals established by these neurons. Together, this work provides evidence that primary cultures of postnatal TH-EGFP mice currently represent an excellent model to study the properties of these cells in culture.
Local knockdown of genes in the brain using small interfering RNA: a phenotypic comparison with knockout animals.	Recent reports have suggested effectiveness of RNA interference (RNAi) for the analysis of gene functions in the brain. This study sought to determine the efficiency of local small interfering RNA (siRNA) injections, comparing this approach with animals generated through classical gene targeting.
Effect of cerebroventricular anterior pituitary grafts on in situ expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in dopaminergic neurons of the aged animal.	The effect of cerebroventricular anterior pituitary (AP) grafts on brain tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression in the median eminence (ME), substantia nigra (SN), and corpus striatum (CS) has been investigated in young and aged female rats. TH expression was studied using the following indices: in situ TH activity, TH mass, and quantity of TH mRNA. The rate of synthesis of dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) was evaluated by measuring its accumulation in the ME, SN, and CS. TH mRNA and TH mass were quantified by an S1 nuclease protection assay and an immunoblot assay, respectively. Viability of the grafts was demonstrated by histological examination and by their ability to secrete PRL into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Liver grafts served as controls. In castrated young and castrated aged animals with AP grafts, the PRL concentrations in the CSF were 204 +/- 49 (mean +/- SE) and 345 +/- 83 ng/ml, respectively, compared to control values of 14 +/- 9 and 23 +/- 9. In intact aged animals, the concentration of PRL was 729 +/- 180 ng/ml in CSF of rats with AP grafts and 223 +/- 62 ng/ml in the controls. DOPA synthesis in the ME of castrated young rats and castrated aged rats with AP grafts was significantly (P less than 0.01) greater than that in controls with liver grafts. AP grafts did not stimulate DOPA synthesis in the ME of intact aged animals. The synthesis of DOPA in the SN and CS was not affected by AP grafts, regardless of the status of the animal. The amount of TH mRNA and the quantity of TH were not influenced by the AP grafts in any of the animal models. However, the in situ molar activity of TH in the ME was significantly greater in castrated young rats and castrated aged rats bearing AP grafts than in animals with liver grafts. The in situ molar activity of TH in the ME of castrated young rats was greater than that of castrated or intact aged animals. It is concluded that AP grafts secrete a substance that stimulates DOPA synthesis in the ME of young as well as aged castrated animals, but not in the nigrostriatal system. This stimulation is due to increased catalytic activity of a fixed number of TH molecules rather than an increase in the mass of TH.
Long-term antidepressant administration alters corticotropin-releasing hormone, tyrosine hydroxylase, and mineralocorticoid receptor gene expression in rat brain. Therapeutic implications.	Imipramine is the prototypic tricyclic antidepressant utilized in the treatment of major depression and exerts its therapeutic efficacy only after prolonged administration. We report a study of the effects of short-term (2 wk) and long-term (8 wk) administration of imipramine on the expression of central nervous system genes among those thought to be dysregulated in imipramine-responsive major depression. As assessed by in situ hybridization, 8 wk of daily imipramine treatment (5 mg/kg, i.p.) in rats decreased corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA levels by 37% in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus and decreased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA levels by 40% in the locus coeruleus (LC). These changes were associated with a 70% increase in mRNA levels of the hippocampal mineralocorticoid receptor (MR, type I) that is thought to play an important role in mediating the negative feedback effects of low levels of steroids on the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Imipramine also decreased proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA levels by 38% and glucocorticoid receptor (GR, type II) mRNA levels by 51% in the anterior pituitary. With the exception of a 20% decrease in TH mRNA in the LC after 2 wk of imipramine administration, none of these changes in gene expression were evident as a consequence of short-term administration of the drug. In the light of data that major depression is associated with an activation of brain CRH and LC-NE systems, the time-dependent effect of long-term imipramine administration on decreasing the gene expression of CRH in the hypothalamus and TH in the LC may be relevant to the therapeutic efficacy of this agent in depression.
Survival and function of intrastriatally grafted primary fibroblasts genetically modified to produce L-dopa.	A combination of gene transfer and intracerebral grafting may provide a powerful technique for examining the role of discrete substances in the development or functioning of the brain. In the present study, primary fibroblasts obtained from a skin biopsy from inbred Fischer rats were used as donor cells for genetic modification and grafting. When grafted to the striatum of Fischer rats with a prior 6-hydroxydopamine lesion, primary fibroblasts containing a transgene for either tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or beta-galactosidase survived for 10 weeks and continued to express the transgene. TH synthesized by the implanted fibroblasts appeared to convert tyrosine to L-dopa actively, as observed in vitro, and to affect the host brain, as assessed through a behavioral measurement. These results suggest that primary fibroblasts genetically altered to express TH have the capacity to deliver L-dopa locally to the striatum in quantities sufficient to compensate partially for the loss of intrinsic striatal dopaminergic input.
Distribution of GAP-43 mRNA in the brain stem of adult rats as evidenced by in situ hybridization: localization within monoaminergic neurons.	Using in situ hybridization, we examined the distribution of the mRNA encoding for the growth-associated protein GAP-43 in the brain stem of adult rats. GAP-43 was expressed at the highest level in the nucleus raphe dorsalis (NDR), nucleus centralis superior (NCS), substantia nigra compacta (SNc), ventral tegmental area (VTA), and locus coeruleus (LC). An intermediate level of signal was detected over the periaque-ductal gray, superior colliculi, and thalamic region, and no significant signal was detected in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and red nucleus. The hybridization signals of GAP-43 mRNA and tryptophan hydroxylase mRNA completely overlapped in the NDR and NCS, and signals for GAP-43 mRNA and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA overlapped in the SNc, VTA, and LC. The disappearance of the hybridization signal for GAP-43 mRNA after intracerebroventricular injections of the neurotoxins 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT) or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) indicated that high levels of GAP-43 are synthesized in the serotonergic neurons of the raphe nuclei and in the catecholaminergic neurons of the SNc, VTA, and LC. In light of the role of GAP-43 in axonal outgrowth, modulation of signal transduction, and release of different neurotransmitters in the adult CNS, this phosphoprotein might be involved in the functional plasticity and synaptic transmission of monoaminergic neurons.
Primary structure of mouse tyrosine hydroxylase deduced from its cDNA.	The cDNAs for tyrosine hydroxylase were cloned from a mouse brain cDNA library by plaque hybridization. Since the longest cDNA clone lacked approximately 150 bp sequence of its N-terminal region, additional 5' region was obtained using polymerase chain reaction. Nucleotide sequence determination of cDNAs revealed that mouse tyrosine hydroxylase m-RNA encodes 498 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 55,990. The amino acid sequence of mouse tyrosine hydroxylase is highly homologous to rat (97%) and human (92%) enzymes.
Effect of 6-hydroxydopamine treatment on kynurenine aminotransferase-I (KAT-I) immunoreactivity of neurons and glial cells in the rat substantia nigra.	Parkinson's disease (PD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by a preferential loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNPC). Neurons in the SNPC are known to express tyrosine hydroxylase (TH); therefore, in a commonly used PD model, 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA), a selective catecholamine neurotoxin, induces neuronal death in SNPC. We have shown with immunohistochemical techniques that kynurenine aminotransferase-I (KAT-I), the enzyme taking part in the formation of kynurenic acid (KYNA)--the only known endogenous selective NMDA receptor antagonist and a potent neuroprotective agent--is also expressed in the rat SNPC. We found that KAT-I and TH co-exist in the very same neurons of SNPC and that 6-OHDA injected into the lateral ventricle produced loss of the majority of nigral neurons. Densitometric analysis proved that, in consequence of 6-OHDA treatment, not only TH but also KAT-I immunoreactivity diminished considerably in the remaining SNPC neurons. Astrocytes in the substantia nigra were found to express KAT-I under normal conditions; the amount of this enzyme increased after administration of 6-OHDA, whereas microglial cells became KAT-I immunoreactive only after 6-OHDA treatment. Since intrinsic KYNA in SNPC neurons is perceptibly insufficient to protect them from the deleterious effect of 6-OHDA, it is hypothesized that biochemical approaches which increase KYNA content of the central nervous system might prevent the deleterious effect of 6-OHDA and, supposedly, also the neuronal degradation characterizing PD.
Control of dopamine-secretion by Tet-Off system in an in vivo model of parkinsonian rat.	We established a PC12 cell line (PC12TH Tet-Off) in which human tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression can be negatively controlled by Doxycycline (Dox). First, dopamine (DA)-secretion from PC12TH Tet-Off cells was controlled by Dox-administration in a dose-responsive manner ranging from 0 to 100 ng/ml for 70 days in vitro. Furthermore, Parkinson's disease model of rats receiving encapsulated PC12TH Tet-Off cells displayed a significant decrease of dopamine concentration in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and increase of the number of apomorphine-induced rotations by Dox-administration, as compared to transplanted rats without Dox-administration, although the significant decrease of the reduction ratio of DA concentration in the CSF with Dox-administration was recognized over time. At 2 months post-implantation, concentration of dopamine in the implanted striatum and from the retrieved capsules demonstrated that the control of DA-secretion could be partially achieved for 2 months in vivo. Our results support both the value of cell therapy using Tet-Off system and the technique of encapsulation might be a feasible option for Parkinson's disease especially in resolving the problem of dopamine oversupply in the future, although a more efficient way to control DA-secretion with quicker regulation and much titration of dose should be explored before clinical application.
Absence of linkage between chromosome 11p15 markers and manic-depressive illness in a Belgian pedigree.	The original finding of genetic linkage in an Old Order Amish pedigree has been contradicted by the results of several subsequent studies. Using the same genetic parameter values, diagnostic criteria, and 11p15 genetic markers as those used to study the initial Amish population, the authors performed a linkage study of a four-generation informative pedigree in Belgium.
Peripheral dopamine in pathophysiology of hypertension. Interaction with aging and lifestyle.	Dopamine, an ancestral catecholamine, is physiologically natriuretic and vasodilating, thus essentially protecting against hypertension. Its actions are overshadowed by the opposite effects of its main biological partner, norepinephrine, and this is accentuated with aging. Clinical observations combined with molecular biology approaches to catecholamine-synthesizing and catecholamine-metabolizing enzymes and receptors permit the identification of some inborn defects. Subtle changes in the dopamine-norepinephrine balance may account for the enhanced peripheral noradrenergic activity seen in the setting of decreased dopaminergic activity in advanced age. These changes may contribute to the diminished ability of the aged kidney to excrete a salt load, as well as to the finding that systolic blood pressure increases with age in populations with a high, but not in those with a low, intake of salt. The attainment of advanced age in Western societies with adverse lifestyle changes (mental rather than physical stress, excess salt intake, overeating, sedentarism) appears to facilitate the development of hypertension. The adaptation to all the preceding lifestyle changes necessitates an increased dopamine generation, which may initially compensate to maintain appropriate natriuresis and vasodilation since many patients with initial borderline essential hypertension express their sympathetic hyperfunction, in addition to increased norepinephrine release, by excessive dopamine release. However, the progression of hypertension is accompanied by a peripheral dopaminergic deficiency and diminished ability to excrete salt. This may represent an eventual inadequacy of a phylogenetically redundant system resulting in decreased natriuresis and vasodilation and may account for the responsiveness of established chronic hypertension to salt restriction, diuretics, and dopaminomimetic medication.
Sarin produces delayed cardiac and central autonomic changes.	The aim was to evaluate the acute and delayed effects of low dose sarin exposure on cardiac autonomic and brainstem catecholaminergic function in mice. The rationale was to expand our knowledge of the cardiovascular effects of this neurotoxic, acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor. C57BL/6 male mice with telemetric arterial catheters were injected with saline or sarin (8 microg/kg, 0.05x LD(50); sc, two injections) with blood pressure (BP) measurements made at 1 and 10 weeks after sarin exposure. BP and pulse interval variability (PI) and low and high frequency spectral oscillations were measured using autoregressive spectral analysis. In situ hybridization (ISH) was used to quantify tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression in brainstem cardiovascular centers. Sarin had no effect on blood AChE activity, heart rate (HR) or BP. There was a biphasic response in PI variance, an early increase (+140%) and a delayed decrease (-62%) at more than 2 months after sarin exposure. There were no changes in BP variance. Assuming that increased PI variance is a positive outcome, the short-term response to sarin should be protective. This is opposite for the delayed decrease in PI variance which is associated with adverse cardiovascular effects. There was an increase in TH mRNA in both locus coeruleus (0.18+/-0.05 vs. 1.4+/-0.2 microCi/g; control vs. sarin) and dorsal vagal complex (0.09+/-0.06 vs. 1.17+/-0.03 microCi/g; control vs. sarin). Results show that a dose of sarin which had no peripheral cholinergic effects caused changes in autonomic modulation, a short-term enhancement followed by a delayed impairment in heart rate variability. Sarin-induced cardiac effects suggest a controversial aspect to the use of pharmacological agents which target AChE for management of cardiovascular risk.
L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine synthesis by genetically modified Schwann cells.	We have investigated whether Schwann cells can be modified by gene transfer to synthesize L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), the immediate precursor in the formation of dopamine. By using a retrovirus containing a rat tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) cDNA, we established an immortalized rodent Schwann cell line that stably expressed high levels of TH and secreted L-DOPA in vitro when supplied with tyrosine and the essential cofactor biopterin. We also infected primary Schwann cells and demonstrated that cells expressing TH secreted L-DOPA while maintaining their capacity to myelinate neurons in vitro. This study indicate that it may be feasible to utilize autotransplantation of genetically modified Schwann cells to alleviate the movement disorders in Parkinson's disease.
Brain-specific polyA- transcripts are detected in polyA+ RNA: do complex polyA- brain RNAs really exist?	Transcripts encoded by 2 different rat genomic clones, rg13 and rg100, appear to be typical brain-specific polyA- RNAs, as defined by previous criteria (rare, polysomal, and postnatally expressed from single-copy genes). However, we have found by using a sensitive nuclease protection assay that low levels of these transcripts (10% and 3%, respectively) are detected in polyA+ RNA. To determine if rg transcripts that fractionate as polyA- could have resulted from nicking of polyA+ RNA, we assessed the integrity of 2 known polyA+ RNAs, those of tyrosine hydroxylase, a 2-kilobase (kb) mRNA, and sodium channel, a 9.5-kb RNA. Using RNA prepared by several different procedures, including LiCl-urea and guanidine thiocyanate followed by CsCl centrifugation, the shorter message fractionated as polyA+ after 2 cycles over oligodeoxythymidine (oligo-dT) cellulose, whereas the majority of the longer sodium channel RNA fractionated as polyA, as assayed by nuclease protection using probes from the 5' end of the 2 genes. However, on Northern blots, the same RNA preparations showed an intact 9.5-kb sodium channel band only in polyA+ RNA, suggesting that the polyA- RNAs were randomly cleaved, resulting in a smear of sizes that could not be detected as a discrete band. These data imply that long messages may be nicked during standard isolation procedures and that this would not be detected by Northern blot analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Modifications of the retina neuronal populations of the heterozygous mutant small eye mouse, the Sey(Dey).	We analyzed the modifications of the retinal neurons in a heterozygous mutant small eye mouse, the Sey(Dey). This mouse presents a mutation in chromosome 2 which affects the gene Pax6 and other nearby genes, such as the Wt1 gene and the gene of the Reticulocalbin. The eyes of these animals do not have lenses and their retinas present important morphological alterations: in the anterior portion they are joined to the cornea, they are found detached from the pigment epithelium, they present folds that form rosettes in some zones and alteration of the lamination can be observed. The partial loss of the genes affected does not prevent the formation of the different layers of the retina, but does affect its thickness, principally of the plexiform layers; moreover, the internal limiting membrane is found disorganized. All the neuronal populations are present in the retina of these animals and express the same neurochemical markers as the control animals, but the number of Pax6(+) cells is notably reduced. In these retinas a marked disorganization of the distribution of the dendrites and axons is observed and a notable reduction in the axons of ganglion cells. These results suggest that, although it does not appear determinant in the differentiation of the distinct neuronal types of the retina, the partial lack of genes of the heterozygotes +/Sey(Dey) provokes important morphological and neurochemical modifications in the cytoarchitecture of the retina.
The neurotensin receptor agonist NT69L suppresses sucrose-reinforced operant behavior in the rat.	NT69L is a neurotensin analog that can be administered peripherally. It blocks amphetamine- and cocaine-induced hyperactivity in rats. It also blocks nicotine-induced locomotor activity and has shown sustained efficacy in a rat model of nicotine-induced sensitization. The present study tested the effect of NT69L on responding for sucrose reinforcement on a continuous reinforcement schedule (CRF) and incrementing (FR1-FR5) discrimination schedule. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, on restricted food intake, were trained to press a lever for sucrose pellets on a CRF and incrementing discrimination schedule of reinforcement. On the following day, the testing session was followed by an extinction session, where lever pressing was not reinforced. Immediately after extinction, a reversal to CRF was implemented to test for relapse. Trained rats were injected with NT69L (1 mg/kg) or saline 30 min before each testing session. Dopamine, tyrosine 3-hydroxylase, and dopamine receptor mRNA levels were determined. NT69L significantly suppressed the lever pressing behavior for sucrose reinforcement on CRF which measures the "hedonic" value of the reward. NT69L also suppressed sucrose self-administration on the incrementing discrimination schedule of reinforcement (FR3-FR5) that is analogous to the motivational incentive. Reversal to CRF was significantly reduced by pretreatment with NT69L. The suppression of sucrose self-administration behavior by pretreatment with NT69L had a pattern similar to that for extinction. The effect of NT69L on dopamine, tyrosine 3-hydroxylase, and dopamine receptor mRNA levels is discussed relative to changes occurring during extinction.
Co-expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and GTP cyclohydrolase I in arginine vasopressin-synthesizing neurons of the human supraoptic nucleus demonstrated by laser microdissection and real-time PCR.	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the first and limiting enzyme for catecholamine synthesis, has been identified immunohistochemically (IHC) in human neurosecretory neurons where it is found to colocalize with vasopressin (AVP) or oxytocin. TH expression shows striking interindividual variability and appears to depend on neuronal activation. Since GTP cyclohydrolase I (GCHI), the first enzyme for tetrahydrobiopterin synthesis, the essential cofactor of TH, and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC) have so far not been detected in neurosecretory neurons, the functional role of TH in catecholamine synthesis is still questionable. Our purpose was to investigate in postmortem hypothalamus whether GCHI and AADC mRNAs are co-expressed with TH in human AVP-synthesizing neurons. Total RNA was extracted from laser microdissected TH-IHC-identified neurons as well as from dissected parts of the dorsolateral supraoptic nucleus (dl-SON) of 12 control subjects, i.e. without known neurological, psychiatric or endocrinological illness. GCHI, AADC and TH mRNA expression was determined by real-time PCR. Our results showed that GCHI mRNA is co-expressed with TH in almost all cases that had a considerable number of TH-immunoreactive (TH-IR) neurosecretory neurons. A positive correlation was found between TH-immunohistochemical intensity and the presence of GCHI mRNA. AADC mRNA expression was detected only in microdissected areas of dl-SON in 2 cases that showed an increased number of TH-IR neurons. The co-expression of GCHI with TH indicates that TH is indeed active in human neurosecretory neurons. The apparent limited expression of AADC indicates that dopamine might be produced in human neurosecretory neurons under activation of the hypothalamoneurohypophyseal system, although the possibility that L-dopa is the final product cannot be excluded.
Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and the urocortins differentially regulate catecholamine secretion in human and rat adrenals, in a CRF receptor type-specific manner.	Corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) affects catecholamine production both centrally and peripherally. The aim of the present work was to examine the presence of CRF, its related peptides, and their receptors in the medulla of human and rat adrenals and their direct effect on catecholamine synthesis and secretion. CRF, urocortin I (UCN1), urocortin II (UCN2), and CRF receptor type 1 (CRF1) and 2 (CRF2) were present in human and rat adrenal medulla as well as the PC12 pheochromocytoma cells by immunocytochemistry, immunofluorescence, and RT-PCR. Exposure of dispersed human and rat adrenal chromaffin cells to CRF1 receptor agonists induced catecholamine secretion in a dose-dependent manner, an effect peaking at 30 min, whereas CRF2 receptor agonists suppressed catecholamine secretion. The respective effects were blocked by CRF1 and CRF2 antagonists. CRF peptides affected catecholamine secretion via changes of subplasmaliminal actin filament polymerization. CRF peptides also affected catecholamine synthesis. In rat chromaffin and PC12 cells, CRF1 and CRF2 agonists induced catecholamine synthesis via tyrosine hydroxylase. However, in human chromaffin cells, activation of CRF1 receptors induced tyrosine hydroxylase, whereas activation of CRF2 suppressed it. In conclusion, it appears that a complex intraadrenal CRF-UCN/CRF-receptor system exists in both human and rat adrenals controlling catecholamine secretion and synthesis.
Selection of embryonic stem cell-derived enhanced green fluorescent protein-positive dopamine neurons using the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter is confounded by reporter gene expression in immature cell populations.	Transplantation of mouse embryonic stem (mES) cells can restore function in Parkinson disease models, but can generate teratomas. Purification of dopamine neurons derived from embryonic stem cells by fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) could provide a functional cell population for transplantation while eliminating the risk of teratoma formation. Here we used the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) promoter to drive enhanced green fluorescent protein (eGFP) expression in mES cells. First, we evaluated 2.5-kilobase (kb) and 9-kb TH promoter fragments and showed that clones generated using the 9-kb fragment produced significantly more eGFP+/TH+ neurons. We selected the 9-kb TH clone with the highest eGFP/TH overlap for further differentiation, FACS, and transplantation experiments. Grafts contained large numbers of eGFP+ dopamine neurons of an appropriate phenotype. However, there were also numerous eGFP+ cells that did not express TH and did not have a neuronal morphology. In addition, we found cells in the grafts representing all three germ layers. Based on these findings, we examined the expression of stem cell markers in our eGFP+ population. We found that a majority of eGFP+ cells were stage-specific embryonic antigen-positive (SSEA-1+) and that the genetically engineered clones contained more SSEA-1+ cells after differentiation than the original D3 mES cells. By negative selection of SSEA-1, we could isolate a neuronal eGFP+ population of high purity. These results illustrate the complexity of using genetic selection to purify mES cell-derived dopamine neurons and provide a comprehensive analysis of cell selection strategies based on tyrosine hydroxylase expression. Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest is found at the end of this article.
Insect cytokine, growth-blocking peptide, is a primary regulator of melanin-synthesis enzymes in armyworm larval cuticle.	The cuticles of most insect larvae have a variety of melanin patterns that function in the insects' interactions with their biotic and abiotic environments. Larvae of the armyworm Pseudaletia separata have black and white stripes running longitudinally along the body axis. This pattern is emphasized after the last larval molt by an increase in the contrast between the lines. We have previously shown that 3,4-dihydroxy-L-phenylalanine (Dopa) decarboxylase (DDC) is activated during the molt period by preferential enhancement of its transcription in the epidermal cells beneath the black stripes. This study demonstrated that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) expression is activated synchronously with DDC. Furthermore, enhancement of DDC and TH transcription is due to an increase in cyotoplasmic Ca(2+), which is induced by the insect cytokine, growth-blocking peptide (GBP). Enhanced gene expression for both enzymes was induced by substitution of the calcium ionophore A23187, and completely blocked by EGTA. A GBP-induced increase in cytoplasmic Ca(2+) was seen in epidermal cells under the black stripes but not those beneath the white stripes, suggesting that a difference in Ca(2+) concentration in stripe cells leads to the specific expression of DDC and TH genes. Based on the fact that epidermal cells beneath the white stripes contain abundant granules composed mainly of uric acid, which can form a complex with Ca(2+) and hence decrease its free concentration, we discuss the possibility that uric acid, as well as GBP, contributes to the difference in cytoplasmic Ca(2+) within the epidermal cells.
ER81 and CaMKIV identify anatomically and phenotypically defined subsets of mouse olfactory bulb interneurons.	The mechanisms underlying dopamine (DA) phenotypic differentiation in the olfactory bulb (OB) have not yet been fully elucidated and are the subject of some controversy. OB DA interneurons destined for the glomerular layer were shown to originate in the subventricular zone (SVZ) and in the rostral migratory stream (RMS). The current study investigated whether calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase IV (CaMKIV) either alone or together with the Ets transcription factor ER81 was necessary for phenotypic determination during migration of progenitors. In most brain areas, including the OB, CaMKIV and ER81 displayed a reciprocal distribution. In the SVZ, only ER81 could be demonstrated. In the RMS, a subpopulation of progenitors contained ER81, but few, if any, contained CaMKIV. In OB, CaMKIV expression, restricted to deep granule cells, showed limited overlap with ER81. ER81 expression was weak in deep granule cells. Strong labeling occurred in the mitral and glomerular layers, where ER81 colabeled dopaminergic periglomerular cells that expressed either tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) or green fluorescent protein, the latter reporter gene under control of 9-kb of 5' TH promoter. Odor deprivation resulted in a significant 5.2-fold decline in TH immunoreactivity, but ER81 exhibited a relatively small 1.7-fold decline in immunoreactivity. TH expression as well as brain and bulb size were unchanged in CaMKIV knockout mice. These data suggest that ER81 may be required but is not sufficient for DA neuron differentiation and that CaMKIV is not directly involved in TH gene regulation.
Enhancement of dopaminergic properties and protection mediated by neuronal activation of Ras in mouse ventral mesencephalic neurones.	The poor differentiation and survival of dopaminergic neurones are practical constraints in their therapeutic applications. Here we explored the role of neuronally activated Ras in ventral mesencephalon-derived neurospheres generated from synRas mouse embryos. The expression of Val12 Ha-Ras transgene and enhanced Ras activity was evident after differentiation of the neurospheres with a corresponding activating phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase. Phosphorylation of Akt/PKB, the target kinase of phosphoinositide 3-kinase, along with phosphorylation of Bad and CREB were enhanced in synRas-derived differentiated neurosphere cultures. Furthermore, increased Nurr1 expression was associated with elevated numbers of dopaminergic neurones in synRas-derived cultures compared with the wild-type. Correspondingly, tyrosine hydroxylase promoter assays revealed enhanced transcriptional activation of the promoter in synRas-derived cultures. synRas-derived dopaminergic neurones were greatly resistant to degeneration induced by various noxious stimuli. Consistently, the transgenic expression of activated Ras attenuated the adverse 6-hydroxydopamine effects on dopaminergic neurones. Dopaminergic neurones derived from both wild-type and synRas cultures expressed voltage-gated potassium and sodium currents, fired action potentials and exhibited electrical network activity. Thus, expression of the transgene promotes survival and enhances differentiation towards a dopaminergic cell fate without altering their basic electrical properties. Our results suggest that intracellular cell therapy mimicking trophic signalling may offer potential benefit in models of human disease associated with dopamine neurone dysfunction.
Human bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells differentiated into dopaminergenic neurons in vitro]	Midbrain dopamine (DA) neurons play an essential role in modulating motor control. Defects in central DA neurons affect a wide range of neurological disorders including Parkinson's disease (PD). The greatest motivation in the field has been the potential use of DA neurons for cell transplantation therapy in Parkinsonian patients. Recent studies indicated that BMSCs could differentiate into DA neurons in vitro as neural stem cells (NSC) and embryonic stem cells (ESC) could. However, there are no direct evidences about functional DA neurons derived from BMSCs. According to the protocols which had been applicated in inducing neuronal stem cells and embryonic stem cells differentiate into DA neurons in vitro, the present study provides a protocol by using 50 micromol/L brain derived neurotrophy factor (BDNF), 10 micromol/L forskolin (FSK) and 10 micromol/L dopamine (DA) to induce BMSCs differentiate into DA neurons. After 2 weeks of differentiation, the cells expressed the character of neurons in ultrastructure. RT-PCR discovered mRNA of NSE (neuron specific enolase), Nurr1, Ptx3, Lmx1b and Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were positive. Immunocytochemistry staining indicated the ratio of TH-positive neural cells was significantly increased after induced 2 weeks (24.80 +/- 3.36) % compared to that of induction of 3 days (3.77 +/- 1.77) %. And the DA release was also different between differentiated and undifferentiated cells detected by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). That is to say BDNF and FSK and DA can induce BMSCs differentiate into DA neurons in vitro, and the transdifferentiated cells express mature neurons characters. BMSCs might be a suitable and available source for the in vitro derivation of DA neurons and cell transplantation therapy in some central neural system diseases such as PD.
Drug-induced activation of dopamine D(1) receptor signaling and inhibition of class I/II histone deacetylase induce chromatin remodeling in reward circuitry and modulate cocaine-related behaviors.	Chromatin remodeling, including histone modification, is involved in stimulant-induced gene expression and addiction behavior. To further explore the role of dopamine D(1) receptor signaling, we measured cocaine-related locomotor activity and place preference in mice pretreated for up to 10 days with the D(1) agonist SKF82958 and/or the histone deacetylase inhibitor (HDACi), sodium butyrate. Cotreatment with D(1) agonist and HDACi significantly enhanced cocaine-induced locomotor activity and place preference, in comparison to single-drug regimens. However, butyrate-mediated reward effects were transient and only apparent within 2 days after the last HDACi treatment. These behavioral changes were associated with histone modification changes in striatum and ventral midbrain: (1) a generalized increase in H3 phosphoacetylation in striatal neurons was dependent on activation of D(1) receptors; (2) H3 deacetylation at promoter sequences of tyrosine hydroxylase (Th) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (Bdnf) in ventral midbrain, together with upregulation of the corresponding gene transcripts after cotreatment with D(1) agonist and HDACi. Collectively, these findings imply that D(1) receptor-regulated histone (phospho)acetylation and gene expression in reward circuitry is differentially regulated in a region-specific manner. Given that the combination of D(1) agonist and HDACi enhances cocaine-related sensitization and reward, the therapeutic benefits of D(1) receptor antagonists and histone acetyl-transferase inhibitors (HATi) warrant further investigation in experimental models of stimulant abuse.
Aripiprazole differentially affects mesolimbic and nigrostriatal dopaminergic transmission: implications for long-term drug efficacy and low extrapyramidal side-effects.	Aripiprazole has been used effectively to treat schizophrenia in the clinic; however, its mechanisms of action are not clear. This study examined how short- and long-term aripiprazole treatment affects dopaminergic transmission in mesolimbic and nigrostriatal pathways. For comparison, the effects of haloperidol and olanzapine treatment were also examined. Aripiprazole significantly increased D2 receptor mRNA expression and decreased tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA expression in the ventral tegmental area (VTA) after 1- and 12-wk treatment, but had no effect in substantia nigra (SN) and nucleus accumbens (NAc). Aripiprazole also decreased dopamine transporter (DAT) binding density in NAc (for 1- and 12-wk treatment) and VTA (1-wk treatment). In contrast, haloperidol significantly increased D2 receptor binding density and decreased DAT binding density in NAc and caudate putamen (CPu) after 1- and 12-wk treatment, and it also decreases DAT binding in VTA after 12-wk treatment. Olanzapine had less widespread effects, namely an increase in D2 receptor mRNA in VTA after 12-wk treatment and decreased DAT binding in NAc after 1-wk treatment. These results suggest that aripiprazole has selective effects on the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway. Selectively reducing dopamine synthesis in VTA is a possible therapeutic mechanism for the long-term efficacy of aripiprazole in controlling schizophrenia symptoms with reduced extrapyramidal side-effects.
Association study between a functional polymorphism of tyrosine hydroxylase gene promoter and personality traits in healthy subjects.	According to the Cloninger's theory, personality consists of temperaments, which are automatic emotional reactions and habits, and characters, which are the self-concepts about goals and values. It has been suggested that temperaments are highly heritable and related to catecholaminergic neurotransmission. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the initial and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of catecholamines such as dopamine and norepinephrine, which are deeply involved in human mental functions and behaviors. It has recently been reported that the C-824T single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter region of the TH gene (rs10770141) affects promoter activity of the TH gene and urinary catecholamine levels. In the present study, the association of this polymorphism with personality traits was examined in 740 healthy Japanese subjects. Personality traits were assessed by the Temperament and Character Inventory (TCI), and the TH genotype was detected by a PCR-RFLP method. In total subjects, there were no significant differences in the seven TCI dimension scores between the TH genotype groups. In males, the subjects with the T allele predictive of elevated levels of dopamine and norepinephrine had lower scores of novelty seeking than those without this allele, while in females none of the TCI scores was different between the two genotype groups. The present study thus suggests that the C-824T polymorphism in the TH gene promoter may affect the personality trait of novelty seeking in healthy males. However, taken the effects of multiple comparisons into account, the present result should be interpreted with caution, necessitating a replication in a different sample.
BMP2 promotes differentiation of nitrergic and catecholaminergic enteric neurons through a Smad1-dependent pathway.	The bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) family is a class of transforming growth factor (TGF-beta) superfamily molecules that have been implicated in neuronal differentiation. We studied the effects of BMP2 and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on inducing differentiation of enteric neurons and the signal transduction pathways involved. Studies were performed using a novel murine fetal enteric neuronal cell line (IM-FEN) and primary enteric neurons. Enteric neurons were cultured in the presence of vehicle, GDNF (100 ng/ml), BMP2 (10 ng/ml), or both (GDNF + BMP2), and differentiation was assessed by neurite length, markers of neuronal differentiation (neurofilament medium polypeptide and beta-III-tubulin), and neurotransmitter expression [neuropeptide Y (NPY), neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS), tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and Substance P]. BMP2 increased the differentiation of enteric neurons compared with vehicle and GDNF-treated neurons (P < 0.001). BMP2 increased the expression of the mature neuronal markers (P < 0.05). BMP2 promoted differentiation of NPY-, nNOS-, and TH-expressing neurons (P < 0.001) but had no effect on the expression of cholinergic neurons (ChAT, Substance P). Neurons cultured in the presence of BMP2 have higher numbers of TH-expressing neurons after exposure to 1-methyl 4-phenylpyridinium (MPP(+)) compared with those cultured with MPP(+) alone (P < 0.01). The Smad signal transduction pathway has been implicated in TGF-beta signaling. BMP2 induced phosphorylation of Smad1, and the effects of BMP2 on differentiation of enteric neurons were significantly reduced in the presence of Smad1 siRNA, implicating the role of Smad1 in BMP2-induced differentiation. The effects of BMP2 on catecholaminergic neurons may have therapeutic implications in gastrointestinal motility disturbances.
Tyrosine hydroxylase, interleukin-1beta and tumor necrosis factor-alpha are overexpressed in peripheral blood mononuclear cells from schizophrenia patients as determined by semi-quantitative analysis.	The aim of this study is to profile the peripheral biomarkers (tyrosine hydroxylase, TH; interleukin-1beta, IL-1beta; and tumor necrosis factor-alpha, TNF-alpha) for schizophrenia and explore their relations with clinical symptoms. Thirty-nine patients with schizophrenia were evaluated using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), and 25 siblings and 30 normal healthy subjects were used as controls. The mRNA expression levels of TH, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha in peripheral blood mononuclear cells, as determined with semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, were all significantly increased in both patients (3-fold) and siblings (2-fold) as compared with normal control. Both IL-1beta and TNF-alpha were significantly correlated with scores on the general psychopathology subscale of the PANSS. A significant positive correlation between IL-1beta and TH expression was found in both sibling and normal controls, but not in patients, while a positive correlation between IL-1beta and TNF-alpha was significant in all the groups. These results suggest that TH, IL-1beta and TNF-alpha are overexpressed in the peripheral blood mononuclear cells of schizophrenia patients, perhaps due to the hereditary factors. IL-1beta and TNF-alpha may influence the symptoms of schizophrenia in the cognition dysfunction and anxiety/depression domains of the PANSS.
Association analysis between gene variants of the tyrosine hydroxylase and the serotonin transporter in borderline personality disorder.	For patients with borderline personality disorder (BPD), we previously reported an independent effect of the catechol-o-methyl-transferase (COMT) low-activity (Met(158)) allele and an interaction with the low-expression allele of the deletion/insertion (short/long or S/L, resp.) polymorphism in the serotonin transporter-linked promoter region (5-HTTLPR). The purpose of the present study was to extend these findings to the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) Val(81)Met single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), the 5-HTTLPR S/L polymorphism incorporating the recently described functional A/G SNP within the long allele of the 5-HTTLPR (rs25531) as well as the variable number of tandem repeat (VNTR) polymorphism within intron 2 of the serotonin transporter gene (STin2).
Polymorphisms of genes for brain-derived neurotrophic factor, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, tyrosine hydroxylase, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase in depression and metabolic syndrome.	The prevalence of metabolic syndrome as well as the occurrence of depressive disorder, which are both connected with increased risk of diabetes mellitus type 2 and cardiovascular diseases, is continually increasing worldwide. These disorders are interconnected at various levels; the genetic one seems to be promising. Contribution of genetic factors to the aetiopathogenesis of depressive disorder weighs within the range 40-50 %, whereas the genetic background for the manifestation of metabolic syndrome is more complicated. In this pilot study, we investigated the incidence of polymorphisms in several genes supposed to play a role in the development of both depressive disorder and metabolic syndrome such as brain-derived neurotrophic factor, methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase, tyrosine hydroxylase, and endothelial nitric oxide synthase. The entire group consisted of 42 patients with depressive disorder, 57 probands with metabolic syndrome and 41 control individuals. We found that genotype Met/Met of the Val66Met polymorphism of the brain-derived neurotrophic factor gene was positively associated with depressive disorder (P < 0.05), but we were not able to find any significant associations of both the depressive disorder and metabolic syndrome with the remaining polymorphisms studied (methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase 677CT, methylenetet rahydrofolate reductase 1298AC, endothelial nitric oxide synthase Glu298Asp, and tyrosine hydroxylase).
Forced expression of LIM homeodomain transcription factor 1b enhances differentiation of mouse embryonic stem cells into serotonergic neurons.	The LIM homeodomain transcription factor 1b (Lmx1b) is a key factor in the specification of the serotonergic neurotransmitter phenotype. Here, we explored the capacity of Lmx1b to direct differentiation of mouse embryonic stem (mES) cells into serotonergic neurons. mES cells stably expressing human Lmx1b were generated by lentiviral vector infection. Clones expressing Lmx1b at a low level showed increased neurogenesis and elevated production of neurons expressing serotonin, serotonin transporter, tryptophan hydroxylase 2, and transcription factor Pet1, the landmarks of serotonergic differentiation. To explore the role of Lmx1b in the specification of the serotonin neurotransmission phenotype further, a conditional system making use of a floxed inducible vector targeted into the ROSA26 locus and a hormone-dependent Cre recombinase was engineered. This novel strategy was tested with the reporter gene encoding human placental alkaline phosphatase, and demonstrated its capacity to drive transgene expression in nestin(+) neural progenitors (NPs) and in Tuj1(+) neurons. When it was applied to inducible expression of human Lmx1b, it resulted in elevated expression of serotonergic markers. Treatment of neural precursors with the floor plate signal Sonic hedgehog further enhanced differentiation of Lmx1b-overexpressing NPs into neurons expressing 5-HT, serotonin transporter, tryptophan hydroxylase 2, and Pet1, when compared with Lmx1b-nonexpressing progenitors. Together, our results demonstrate the capacity of Lmx1b to specify a serotonin neurotransmitter phenotype when overexpressed in mES cell-derived NPs.
The effect of lentivirus-mediated TH and GDNF genetic engineering mesenchymal stem cells on Parkinson's disease rat model.	This study was designed to assess the potential therapeutic efficacy of gene-modified mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs), MSCs-TH and MSCs-GDNF, in PD rats. Fifty-nine PD rat models were divided into five groups and then the gene-modified MSCs were transplanted into the striatum of rats according to the design. Apomorphine-induced rotational behavior in rats was observed weekly; rats which received both MSCs-TH and MSCs-GDNF showed the most significant improvement compared with those in other groups (P < 0.01). Three weeks later, immunohistochemistry analysis found TH-positive cells and GDNF-positive cells in striatal. Eight weeks later, PD rats were killed. HPLC and ELISA results showed DA and GDNF content in striatum of rats which received both MSCs-TH, and MSCs-GDNF was considerably higher compared with those of other groups (P < 0.01),respectively. In conclusion, our results suggest that combined transplantation of MSCs expressing TH and GDNF can lead to remarkable therapeutic effects in a rat model of PD.
The genetics of sex differences in brain and behavior.	Biological differences between men and women contribute to many sex-specific illnesses and disorders. Historically, it was argued that such differences were largely, if not exclusively, due to gonadal hormone secretions. However, emerging research has shown that some differences are mediated by mechanisms other than the action of these hormone secretions and in particular by products of genes located on the X and Y chromosomes, which we refer to as direct genetic effects. This paper reviews the evidence for direct genetic effects in behavioral and brain sex differences. We highlight the 'four core genotypes' model and sex differences in the midbrain dopaminergic system, specifically focusing on the role of Sry. We also discuss novel research being done on unique populations including people attracted to the same sex and people with a cross-gender identity. As science continues to advance our understanding of biological sex differences, a new field is emerging that is aimed at better addressing the needs of both sexes: gender-based biology and medicine. Ultimately, the study of the biological basis for sex differences will improve healthcare for both men and women.
Divergence in enzyme regulation between Caenorhabditis elegans and human tyrosine hydroxylase, the key enzyme in the synthesis of dopamine.	TH (tyrosine hydroxylase) is the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines. The cat-2 gene of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans is expressed in mechanosensory dopaminergic neurons and has been proposed to encode a putative TH. In the present paper, we report the cloning of C. elegans full-length cat-2 cDNA and a detailed biochemical characterization of the encoded CAT-2 protein. Similar to other THs, C. elegans CAT-2 is composed of an N-terminal regulatory domain followed by a catalytic domain and a C-terminal oligomerization domain and shows high substrate specificity for L-tyrosine. Like hTH (human TH), CAT-2 is tetrameric and is phosphorylated at Ser35 (equivalent to Ser40 in hTH) by PKA (cAMP-dependent protein kinase). However, CAT-2 is devoid of characteristic regulatory mechanisms present in hTH, such as negative co-operativity for the cofactor, substrate inhibition or feedback inhibition exerted by catecholamines, end-products of the pathway. Thus TH activity in C. elegans displays a weaker regulation in comparison with the human orthologue, resembling a constitutively active enzyme. Overall, our data suggest that the intricate regulation characteristic of mammalian TH might have evolved from more simple models to adjust to the increasing complexity of the higher eukaryotes neuroendocrine systems.
Differential response of the central noradrenergic nervous system to the loss of locus coeruleus neurons in Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease.	In Parkinson's disease (PD), there is a significant loss of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus (LC) in addition to the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN). The goal of this study was to determine if the surviving LC noradrenergic neurons in PD demonstrate compensatory changes in response to the neuronal loss, as observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine -hydroxylase (DBH) mRNA expression in postmortem LC tissue of control and age-matched PD subjects demonstrated a significant reduction in the number of noradrenergic neurons in the LC of PD subjects. TH mRNA expression/neuron did not differ between control and PD subjects, but DBH mRNA expression/neuron was significantly elevated in PD subjects compared to control. This increase in DBH mRNA expression in PD subjects is not a response to neuronal loss because the amount of DBH mRNA expression/neuron in AD subjects was not significantly different from control. Norepinephrine transporter (NET) binding site concentration in the LC of PD subjects was significantly reduced over the cell body region as well as the peri-LC dendritic zone. In PD subjects, the loss of dendrites from surviving noradrenergic neurons was also apparent with TH-immunoreactivity (IR). This loss of LC dendritic innervation in PD subjects as measured by TH-IR was not due to LC neuronal loss because TH-IR in AD subjects was robust, despite a similar loss of LC neurons. These data suggest that there is a differential response of the noradrenergic nervous system in PD compared to AD in response to the loss of LC neurons.
Effect of the endogenous catecholamines synthesized by lymphocytes on T cell proliferation]	To provide further evidence for the synthesis of catecholamines (CAs) in lymphocytes and to investigate the effect of the endogenous CAs synthesized by lymphocytes on function of the lymphocytes themselves and the receptor mechanisms involved in the effect.
Elevated expression of c-fos in central nervous system correlates with visceral hypersensitivity in irritable bowel syndrome (IBS): a new target for IBS treatment.	Although visceral hypersensitivity is a major pathophysiological feature of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), its molecular mechanisms are still poorly understood. c-fos is a well-established marker of cell activation. Accumulating evidence demonstrates that norepinephrine (NE) system is dysregulated in IBS; however, very little is known on its mechanism. It is our hypothesis that elevated expression of c-fos in central nervous system (CNS) correlates with visceral hypersensitivity in rat model of IBS. Furthermore, we explored the changes of NE system in IBS patients.
Association of TH01 with human longevity revisited.	The gene tyrosine hydroxylase 1 (TH01) has been suggested as a candidate for human longevity. A previous study has shown an association between longevity and specific alleles of the TH01 short tandem repeat (STR) polymorphism in an Italian population. This STR locus is also widely used in forensic genetics. If the TH01-longevity association could be confirmed in independent samples, this finding would have important ramifications for the use of this polymorphism in a forensic context. In the present study, we sought to replicate the previous association result by investigating 471 long-lived individuals (96-110 years) and 462 younger controls (19-75 years) from Germany. In the analyzed samples, the association between TH01 and longevity was not replicated. However, the obtained TH01 allele frequencies were consistent with published data. We observed considerable differences in the allele distribution between Germans and Italians, in particular with regard to allele 9.3, which displayed a previously undetected decreasing West-East and North-South cline across Europe. The discrepant TH01-longevity association results in Germans and Italians could therefore be due to population-specific effects. This finding highlights the need to take into consideration population genetic data when dealing with association studies.
Optogenetic interrogation of dopaminergic modulation of the multiple phases of reward-seeking behavior.	Phasic activation of dopaminergic neurons is associated with reward-predicting cues and supports learning during behavioral adaptation. While noncontingent activation of dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental are (VTA) is sufficient for passive behavioral conditioning, it remains unknown whether the phasic dopaminergic signal is truly reinforcing. In this study, we first targeted the expression of channelrhodopsin-2 to dopaminergic neurons of the VTA and optimized optogenetically evoked dopamine transients. Second, we showed that phasic activation of dopaminergic neurons in freely moving mice causally enhances positive reinforcing actions in a food-seeking operant task. Interestingly, such effect was not found in the absence of food reward. We further found that phasic activation of dopaminergic neurons is sufficient to reactivate previously extinguished food-seeking behavior in the absence of external cues. This was also confirmed using a single-session reversal paradigm. Collectively, these data suggest that activation of dopaminergic neurons facilitates the development of positive reinforcement during reward-seeking and behavioral flexibility.
Selection of reference genes in different myocardial regions of an in vivo ischemia/reperfusion rat model for normalization of antioxidant gene expression.	Changes in cardiac gene expression due to myocardial injury are usually assessed in whole heart tissue. However, as the heart is a heterogeneous system, spatial and temporal heterogeneity is expected in gene expression.
Stress stimulates production of catecholamines in rat adipocytes.	The sympathoadrenal system is the main source of catecholamines (CAs) in adipose tissues and therefore plays the key role in the regulation of adipose tissue metabolism. We recently reported existence of an alternative CA-producing system directly in adipose tissue cells, and here we investigated effect of various stressors-physical (cold) and emotional stress (immobilization) on dynamics of this system. Acute or chronic cold exposure increased intracellular norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (EPI) concentration in isolated rat mesenteric adipocytes. Gene expression of CA biosynthetic enzymes did not change in adipocytes but was increased in stromal vascular fraction (SVF) after 28day cold. Exposure of rats to a single IMO stress caused increases in NE and EPI levels, and also gene expression of CA biosynthetic enzymes in adipocytes. In SVF changes were similar but more pronounced. Animals adapted to a long-term cold exposure (28days, 4C) did not show those responses found after a single IMO stress either in adipocytes or SVF. Our data indicate that gene machinery accommodated in adipocytes, which is able to synthesize NE and EPI de novo, is significantly activated by stress. Cold-adapted animals keep their adaptation even after an exposure to a novel stressor. These findings suggest the functionality of CAs produced endogenously in adipocytes. Taken together, the newly discovered CA synthesizing system in adipocytes is activated in stress situations and might significantly contribute to regulation of lipolysis and other metabolic or thermogenetic processes.
Overview of tyrosine hydroxylase in Parkinson's disease.	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the rate-limiting enzyme in brain catecholamine biosynthesis, and tetrahydrobiopterin is its cofactor. Research has focused on identifying mechanisms of TH activity regulation. TH activity is modulated by the cofactor itself, and is enhanced by several kinases phosphorylating key serines in the TH regulatory domain. Aside from these, the mechanisms that control TH gene transcription and TH mRNA translation are also related with the regulation of TH activity. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by severe loss of dopaminergic neurons and depletion of dopamine in substantia nigra. Reduction of TH expression results in diminished dopamine synthesis and leads to PD; thus TH is essential in the pathogenesy of PD. It has also been shown that dysregulation of TH activity will contribute to PD. For example, -synuclein represses TH not only by inhibiting phosphorylation at Ser40 of TH, but also by stimulating protein phosphatase 2A activity, which decreases dopamine synthesis and leads to parkinsonism. Based on these studies of TH in PD pathogenesis, a therapeutic strategy aimed to improve striatal TH expression in PD has received wide interest. Evidence shows that using drugs or other treatment methods such as gene replacement therapy to increase nigrostriatal TH expression is an effective therapy for PD. Further investigation of TH regulatory mechanisms will not only provide additional drug targets for PD, but may also help to identify new PD therapeutics.
Current status of tyrosine hydroxylase in management of Parkinson's disease.	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the rate limiting enzyme responsible for converting tyrosine to L-DOPA in the dopamine synthesis pathway. The pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) is largely due to the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system, with a decrease in TH activity, TH synthesis and TH mRNA in the striatum of PD and animal experimental models. TH is thus one of the main targets for gene therapy in PD. TH activity variations during L-DOPA and new antiparkinsonian treatments have been extensively studied. Pharmacological trials with neuroprotective treatments could modify these variations, suggesting a direct involvement of TH cells in the neurodegenerative process. - Synuclein, the main component of Lewy bodies regulates the production of dopamine through its interaction with TH. Over-expression of -synuclein reduces the levels of TH mRNA and protein in the brain and in this way links the histological description of PD and its pathological biochemistry.
Tyrosine hydroxylase gene: another piece of the genetic puzzle of Parkinson's disease.	The tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene encodes a monoxygenase that catalyzes the rate limiting step in dopamine biosynthesis. A hallmark of Parkinson's disease (PD) is the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. Consistent with the essential role of TH in dopamine homeostasis, missense mutations in both alleles of TH have been associated with severe Parkinsonism-related phenotypes including infantile Parkinsonism. It has been speculated for a long time that genetic variants in the TH gene modify adult-onset PD susceptibility but the answer has not been clear. Genetic variants (both sequence variations and structural variations) can be classified into three categories based on their relative frequency in population: common variants (polymorphisms), rare variants and mutations. Each of these factors has a different mode in influencing the genetic risk and often requires different approaches to decipher their contributions to the disease. In the past few years, the revolutionary advances in genomic technology have allowed systematic evaluations of these genetic variants in PD, such as the genome-wide association study (GWAS, to survey common variants), copy number variation analysis (to detect structural variations), and massive parallel next generation sequencing (to detect rare variants and mutations). In this review, we have summarized the latest evidence on TH genetic variants in PD, including our ongoing effort of using whole exome sequencing to search for rare variants in PD patients.
Disrupted autophagy leads to dopaminergic axon and dendrite degeneration and promotes presynaptic accumulation of -synuclein and LRRK2 in the brain.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized pathologically by the formation of ubiquitin and -synuclein (-syn)-containing inclusions (Lewy bodies), dystrophic dopamine (DA) terminals, and degeneration of midbrain DA neurons. The precise molecular mechanisms underlying these pathological features remain elusive. Accumulating evidence has implicated dysfunctional autophagy, the cell self-digestion and neuroprotective pathway, as one of the pathogenic systems contributing to the development of idiopathic PD. Here we characterize autophagy-deficient mouse models and provide in vivo evidence for the potential role that impaired autophagy plays in pathogenesis associated with PD. Cell-specific deletion of essential autophagy gene Atg7 in midbrain DA neurons causes delayed neurodegeneration, accompanied by late-onset locomotor deficits. In contrast, Atg7-deficient DA neurons in the midbrain exhibit early dendritic and axonal dystrophy, reduced striatal dopamine content, and the formation of somatic and dendritic ubiquitinated inclusions in DA neurons. Furthermore, whole-brain-specific loss of Atg7 leads to presynaptic accumulation of -syn and LRRK2 proteins, which are encoded by two autosomal dominantly inherited PD-related genes. Our results suggest that disrupted autophagy may be associated with enhanced levels of endogenous -syn and LRRK2 proteins in vivo. Our findings implicate dysfunctional autophagy as one of the failing cellular mechanisms involved in the pathogenesis of idiopathic PD.
Mechanisms of dopamine quantal size regulation.	The study of dopamine (DA) quantal size, or the amount of transmitter released per vesicle fusion event, has been enabled by subsecond resolution amperometric recordings. These methods, together with other electrophysiology techniques, novel optical approaches and classical molecular biology and biochemistry methodologies, have advanced our understanding of quantal size regulation in dopaminergic and other catecholaminergic systems. The presynaptic mechanisms that determine DA quantal size regulate two features: the amount of transmitter stored in each vesicle and the fraction of vesicular contents that are released per fusion event. The amount of vesicular DA is dependent on DA synthesis, DA vesicular loading and storage and on DA reuptake from the extracellular space upon exocytosis. The mode of vesicle fusion and the related fusion pore dynamics control the fraction of DA released per fusion event. We will summarize current understanding on the regulation of these steps by endogenous and exogenous factors, including drugs of abuse and DA itself.
The contribution of the C-824T tyrosine hydroxylase polymorphism to the prevalence of hypertension in a South African cohort: the SABPA study.	The C-824T single nucleotide polymorphism in the promoter region of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene has been associated with hypertension. It is well documented that African South Africans exhibit a higher prevalence of hypertension than Caucasians. However, the possible role of this mutation on 24-hour ambulatory blood pressure (AMBP) has not been investigated in African South Africans. Blood samples of 409 South Africans were screened for the mutation. Ambulatory blood pressure and lifestyle factors were also measured. Africans had higher incidence of hypertension and higher occurrence of the mutation. However, the contribution of the tyrosine hydroxylase C-824T single nucleotide polymorphism to hypertension could not be confirmed in our cohort. 
Axotomy-induced changes in the chemical coding pattern of colon projecting calbindin-positive neurons in the inferior mesenteric ganglia of the pig.	The present study examines the response of colon-projecting neurons localized in the inferior mesenteric ganglia (IMG) to axotomy in the pig animal model. In all animals (n=8), a median laparotomy was performed under anesthesia and the retrograde tracer Fast Blue was injected into the descending colon wall. In experimental animals (n=4), the descending colon was exposed and the bilateral caudal colonic nerves were identified and severed. All animals were euthanized and the inferior mesenteric ganglia were harvested and processed for double-labeling immunofluorescence for calbindin-D28k (CB) in combination with either tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), neuropeptide Y (NPY), somatostatin (SOM), vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), nitric oxide synthase (NOS), Leu-enkephalin (LENK), substance P, vesicular acetylcholine transporter, or galanin. Immunohistochemistry revealed significant changes in the chemical coding pattern of injured inferior mesenteric ganglion neurons. In control animals, Fast Blue-positive neurons were immunoreactive to TH, NPY, SOM, VIP, NOS, LENK, and CB. In the experimental group, the numbers of TH-, NPY-, and SOM-expressing neurons were reduced, whereas the number of neurons immunoreactive to LENK was increased. Our data indicate that the colon-projecting neurons of the porcine IMG react to the axotomy in a similar, but not an identical manner in a comparison to other species, especially rodents. Further studies are needed to elucidate the detailed factors/mechanisms involved in the response to nerve injury. 
DRD4 and TH gene polymorphisms are associated with activity, impulsivity and inattention in Siberian Husky dogs.	Both dopamine receptor D4 (DRD4) exon 3 and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) intron 4 repeat polymorphisms have been linked to activity and impulsivity in German Shepherd dogs (GSDs). However, the results in GSDs may not be generalisable to other breeds, as allelic frequencies vary markedly among breeds. We selected the Siberian Husky for further study, because it is highly divergent from most dog breeds, including the GSD. The study sample consisted of 145 racing Siberian Huskies from Europe and North America. We found that this breed possesses seven DRD4 length variants, two to five more variants than found in other breeds. Among them was the longest known allele, previously described only in wolves. Short alleles of the DRD4 and TH repeat polymorphisms were associated with higher levels of activity, impulsivity and inattention. Siberian Huskies possessing at least one short allele of the DRD4 polymorphism displayed greater activity in a behavioural test battery than did those with two long alleles. However, the behavioural test was brief and may not have registered variation in behaviour across time and situations. Owners also completed the Dog-Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder Rating Scale (Dog-ADHD RS), a more general measure of activity and attention. Siberian Huskies from Europe with two short alleles of the TH polymorphism received higher ratings of inattention on the Dog-ADHD RS than did those with the long allele. Investigation of the joint effect of DRD4 and TH showed that dogs possessing long alleles at both sites were scored as less active-impulsive than were others. Our results are aligned with previous studies showing that DRD4 and TH polymorphisms are associated with activity-impulsivity related traits in dogs. However, the prevalence of variants of these genes differs across breeds, and the functional role of specific variants is unclear. 
Zebrafish tyrosine hydroxylase 2 gene encodes tryptophan hydroxylase.	The primary pathological hallmark of Parkinson disease (PD) is the profound loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta. To facilitate the understanding of the underling mechanism of PD, several zebrafish PD models have been generated to recapitulate the characteristics of dopaminergic (DA) neuron loss. In zebrafish studies, tyrosine hydroxylase 1 (th1) has been frequently used as a molecular marker of DA neurons. However, th1 also labels norepinephrine and epinephrine neurons. Recently, a homologue of th1, named tyrosine hydroxylase 2 (th2), was identified based on the sequence homology and subsequently used as a novel marker of DA neurons. In this study, we present evidence that th2 co-localizes with serotonin in the ventral diencephalon and caudal hypothalamus in zebrafish embryos. In addition, knockdown of th2 reduces the level of serotonin in the corresponding th2-positive neurons. This phenotype can be rescued by both zebrafish th2 and mouse tryptophan hydroxylase 1 (Tph1) mRNA as well as by 5-hydroxytryptophan, the product of tryptophan hydroxylase. Moreover, the purified Th2 protein has tryptophan hydroxylase activity comparable with that of the mouse TPH1 protein in vitro. Based on these in vivo and in vitro results, we conclude that th2 is a gene encoding for tryptophan hydroxylase and should be used as a marker gene of serotonergic neurons. 
Mating increases neuronal tyrosine hydroxylase expression and selectively gates transmission of male chemosensory information in female mice.	Exposure to chemosensory signals from unfamiliar males can terminate pregnancy in recently mated female mice. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the main olfactory bulb has been found to increase following mating and has been implicated in preventing male-induced pregnancy block during the post-implantation period. In contrast, pre-implantation pregnancy block is mediated by the vomeronasal system, and is thought to be prevented by selective inhibition of the mate's pregnancy blocking chemosignals, at the level of the accessory olfactory bulb. The objectives of this study were firstly to identify the level of the vomeronasal pathway at which selective inhibition of the mate's pregnancy blocking chemosignals occurs. Secondly, to determine whether a post-mating increase in tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons is observed in the vomeronasal system, which could play a role in preventing pre-implantation pregnancy block. Immunohistochemical staining revealed that mating induced an increase in tyrosine-hydroxylase positive neurons in the arcuate hypothalamus of BALB/c females, and suppressed c-Fos expression in these neurons in response to mating male chemosignals. This selective suppression of c-Fos response to mating male chemosignals was not apparent at earlier levels of the pregnancy-blocking neural pathway in the accessory olfactory bulb or corticomedial amygdala. Immunohistochemical staining revealed an increase in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the accessory olfactory bulb of BALB/c female mice following mating. However, increased dopamine-mediated inhibition in the accessory olfactory bulb is unlikely to account for the prevention of pregnancy block to the mating male, as tyrosine hydroxylase expression did not increase in females of the C57BL/6 strain, which show normal mate recognition. These findings reveal an association of mating with increased dopaminergic modulation in the pregnancy block pathway and support the hypothesis that mate recognition prevents pregnancy block by suppressing the activation of arcuate dopamine release. 
Time course of dopamine neuron loss and glial response in the 6-OHDA striatal mouse model of Parkinson's disease.	The 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) neurotoxic lesion of the midbrain dopamine (DA) system is one of the most widely used techniques for modelling Parkinson's disease in rodents. The majority of studies using this approach, however, largely limit their analysis to lesioning acutely, and looking at behavioural deficits and the number of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-stained cells in the midbrain. Here we have analysed additional characteristics that occur following intrastriatal delivery of 6-OHDA, providing better understanding of the neurodegenerative process. Female C57/Black mice were given lesions at 10 weeks old, and killed at several different time points postoperatively (3 and 6 h, 1, 3, 6, 9 and 12 days). While the detrimental effect of the toxin on the TH+ fibres in the striatum was immediate, we found that the loss of TH+ dendritic fibres, reduction in cell size and intensity of TH expression, and eventual reduction in the number of TH+ neurons in the substantia nigra was delayed for several days post-surgery. We also investigated the expression of various transcription factors and proteins expressed by midbrain DA neurons following lesioning, and observed changes in the expression of Aldh1a1 (aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 family, member A1) as the neurodegenerative process evolved. Extracellularly, we looked at microglia and astrocytes in reaction to the 6-OHDA striatal lesion, and found a delay in their response and proliferation in the substantia nigra. In summary, this work highlights aspects of the neurodegenerative process in the 6-OHDA mouse model that can be applied to future studies looking at therapeutic interventions.
Effects of maternal care on the development of midbrain dopamine pathways and reward-directed behavior in female offspring.	Variation within mesolimbic dopamine (DA) pathways has significant implications for behavioral responses to rewards, and previous studies have indicated long-term programming effects of early life stress on these pathways. In the current study, we examined the impact of natural variations in maternal care in Long Evans rats on the development of DA pathways in female offspring and the consequences for reward-directed behaviors. We found that tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactivity in the ventral tegmental area was elevated by postnatal day 6 in response to maternal licking/grooming (LG), and that these effects were sustained into adulthood. Increased TH immunoreactivity was not found to be associated with altered epigenetic regulation or transcriptional activation of Th, but probably involved LG-associated changes in the differentiation of postnatal DA neurons through increased expression of Cdkn1c, and enhanced survival of DA projections through LG-associated increases in Lmx1b and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. At weaning, high-LG offspring had elevated DA receptor mRNA levels within the nucleus accumbens and increased conditioned place preference for a high-fat diet. In contrast, high-LG, as compared with low-LG, juvenile offspring had a reduced preference for social interactions with siblings, and haloperidol administration abolished group differences in conditioned place preference through a shift towards increased social preferences in high-LG offspring. The effects of maternal care on developing DA pathways and reward-directed behavior of female offspring that we have observed may play a critical role in the behavioral transmission of maternal LG from mother to daughter, and account for individual differences in the mesolimbic DA system. 
Progressive Parkinsonism by acute dysfunction of excitatory amino acid transporters in the rat substantia nigra.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive degeneration of substantia nigra (SN) dopamine neurons, involving a multifactorial cascade of pathogenic events. Here we explored the hypothesis that dysfunction of excitatory amino acid transporters (EAATs) might be involved. Acutely-induced dysfunction of EAATs in the rat SN, by single unilateral injection of their substrate inhibitor l-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC), triggers a neurodegenerative process mimicking several PD features. Dopamine neurons are selectively affected, consistent with their sustained excitation by PDC measured by slice electrophysiology. The anti-oxidant N-acetylcysteine and the NMDA receptor antagonists ifenprodil and memantine provide neuroprotection. Besides oxidative stress and NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity, glutathione depletion and neuroinflammation characterize the primary insult. Most interestingly, the degeneration progresses overtime with unilateral to bilateral and caudo-rostral evolution. Transient adaptive changes in dopamine function markers in SN and striatum accompany cell loss and axonal dystrophy, respectively. Motor deficits appear when neuron loss exceeds 50% in the most affected SN and striatal dopamine tone is dramatically reduced. These findings outline a functional link between EAAT dysfunction and several PD pathogenic mechanisms/pathological hallmarks, and provide a novel acutely-triggered model of progressive Parkinsonism. 
Unusual case of levodopa-responsive camptocormia in a patient with negative dopamine transporter scan and normal DYT 5 gene.	To describe an unusual case of camptocormia responding to levodopa.
Roles of autophagy in MPP+-induced neurotoxicity in vivo: the involvement of mitochondria and -synuclein aggregation.	Macroautophagy (also known as autophagy) is an intracellular self-eating mechanism and has been proposed as both neuroprotective and neurodestructive in the central nervous system (CNS) neurodegenerative diseases. In the present study, the role of autophagy involving mitochondria and -synuclein was investigated in MPP+ (1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium)-induced oxidative injury in chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats in vivo. The oxidative mechanism underlying MPP+-induced neurotoxicity was identified by elevated lipid peroxidation and heme oxygenase-1 levels, a redox-regulated protein in MPP+-infused substantia nigra (SN). At the same time, MPP+ significantly increased LC3-II levels, a hallmark protein of autophagy. To block MPP+-induced autophagy in rat brain, Atg7siRNA was intranigrally infused 4 d prior to MPP+ infusion. Western blot assay showed that in vivo Atg7siRNA transfection not only reduced Atg7 levels in the MPP+-infused SN but attenuated MPP+-induced elevation in LC3-II levels, activation of caspase 9 and reduction in tyrosine hydroxylase levels, indicating that autophagy is pro-death. The immunostaining study demonstrated co-localization of LC3 and succinate dehydrogenase (a mitochondrial complex II) as well as LC3 and -synuclein, suggesting that autophagy may engulf mitochondria and -synuclein. Indeed, in vivo Atg7siRNA transfection mitigated MPP+-induced reduction in cytochrome c oxidase. In addition, MPP+-induced autophagy differentially altered the -synuclein aggregates in the infused SN. In conclusion, autophagy plays a prodeath role in the MPP+-induced oxidative injury by sequestering mitochondria in the rat brain. Moreover, our data suggest that the benefits of autophagy depend on the levels of -synuclein aggregates in the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system of the rat brain. 
Complete sequence of a cDNA encoding an active rat choline acetyltransferase: a tool to investigate the plasticity of cholinergic phenotype expression.	A cDNA clone encoding the complete sequence of an active rat choline acetyltransferase (ChoAcTase; acetyl-CoA:choline O-acetyltransferase, EC 2.3.1.6) has been isolated. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence reveals 85% and 31% identity with the porcine and Drosophila melanogaster enzymes, respectively. To further elucidate the molecular basis of neurotransmitter-related phenotypic plasticity, the expression of ChoAcTase mRNA was compared with that of tyrosine hydroxylase [TH; tyrosine 3-monooxygenase, L-tyrosine, tetrahydropteridine:oxygen oxidoreductase (3-hydroxylating), EC 1.14.16.2], in neurons from superior cervical ganglia grown in the following conditions: 1) normal medium, 2) high K+ medium, and 3) normal medium supplemented with 50% muscle-conditioned medium (CM). TH mRNA was expressed in all three media; its level rose in high K+ and decreased strikingly in the presence of CM. ChoAcTase mRNA could be visualized in CM, but fell to undetectable levels in normal and high K+ media. These results suggest that translational or post-translational mechanisms do not play a major role for the modulation of neurotransmitter-associated phenotype.
Retroviral transfer of a human tyrosine hydroxylase cDNA in various cell lines: regulated release of dopamine in mouse anterior pituitary AtT-20 cells.	Little is known about the molecular events mediating neurotransmitter release, a crucial step in synaptic transmission. In this paper, the biosynthesis and release of L-beta-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and dopamine were analyzed in three heterologous cell lines after retroviral-mediated gene transfer of tyrosine hydroxylase (EC 1.14.16.2), the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine synthesis. A recombinant retrovirus encoding human tyrosine hydroxylase type I as well as neomycin-resistance gene was used to infect a fibroblast (NIH 3T3), a neuroblastoma (NS20 Y), and a neuroendocrine (AtT-20) cell line. After selection in the presence of neomycin and in tyrosine-free medium, high levels of exogenous tyrosine hydroxylase activity were detected in extracts of the three cell lines. High-performance liquid chromatography of cell extracts and culture supernatants confirmed that the three cell lines hydroxylated tyrosine to form L-DOPA and released this metabolite into the culture medium. Interestingly, the neuroendocrine cell line AtT-20 synthesized not only L-DOPA but also dopamine. Evoked secretion studies established that AtT-20 cells released the transmitter upon depolarization in a regulated, calcium-dependent way. We discuss the implication of this approach for the analyses of neurotransmitter release as well as in the context of degenerative disorders such as Parkinson disease.
Isolation of a rat pineal gland cDNA clone homologous to tyrosine and phenylalanine hydroxylases.	A rat pineal gland cDNA expression library has been probed with an antiserum raised against rat tryptophan hydroxylase. A clone has been isolated and its sequence reveals a high degree of homology with those of tyrosine and phenylalanine hydroxylases.
Transcriptional regulation of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene by glucocorticoid and cyclic AMP.	Glucocorticoid and cyclic AMP increase tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity and mRNA levels in pheochromocytoma cultures. The transcriptional activity of the TH gene, as measured by nuclear run-on assay, is also increased when cultures are treated with the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone or agents that increase intracellular cyclic AMP, such as forskolin and 8-BrcAMP. Both inducers effect transcriptional changes within 10 min after treatment and are maximal after 30 min for forskolin and after 60 min for dexamethasone. The 5' flanking sequences of the TH gene were fused to the bacterial gene chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT), and the hybrid gene was transfected into pheochromocytoma cultures and GH4 pituitary cells. In both cell lines, a region of the TH gene containing bases -272 to +27 conferred induction of CAT by cyclic AMP, but not by glucocorticoid. The same results were found when a region of the TH gene containing -773 to +27 was used. Thus, the sequences required for induction of TH by cyclic AMP are contained within 272 bases of 5' flanking sequence, but sequences sufficient for glucocorticoid regulation are not contained within 773 bases.
Influence of cell-cell contact on levels of tyrosine hydroxylase in cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells.	We have studied the regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase by cell-cell contact in primary cultures of bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. Preparation of dissociated chromaffin cells from bovine adrenal medullae or the harvesting of cultured cells resulted in a rapid decrease of the specific mRNA(TH) (defined as the amount of mRNA(TH) (where TH represents tyrosine hydroxylase) per microgram of total RNA). The decrease in mRNA(TH) levels appears to be stimulated by the loss of cell contact, as it occurs much more rapidly than would be expected from the turnover rate of mRNA(TH) in cultured cells. Similarly an enhanced rate of tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme degradation was observed in chromaffin cells when brought into low contact cultures. In contrast to the decrease in mRNA(TH) levels, however, the decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme levels was not so rapid and could be prevented in high contact cultures. The mRNA(TH) increased 4-fold in high contact cultures relative to dissociated cells within 1 day after plating. Similarly the rate of synthesis of tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme molecules was maximal after 1 day, although the increase in the absolute amount of tyrosine hydroxylase occurred only slowly. The increase in specific mRNA(TH) by cell contact was inhibited by alpha-amanitin, indicating that cell contact evokes an increase in tyrosine hydroxylase levels by increasing the transcription of mRNA(TH), in addition to inhibiting the degradation of tyrosine hydroxylase molecules.
Organization and evolution of the rat tyrosine hydroxylase gene.	This report describes the organization of the rat tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene and compares its structure with the human phenylalanine hydroxylase gene. Both genes are single copy and contain 13 exons separated by 12 introns. Remarkably, the positions of 10 out of 12 intron/exon boundaries are identical for the two genes. These results support the idea that these hydroxylase genes are members of a gene family which has a common evolutionary origin. We predict that this ancestral gene would have encoded exons similar to those of TH prior to evolutionary drift to other members of this gene family.
Genetic determination of mesencephalic tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the mouse.	The hereditary factors that affect mesencephalic tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity were investigated in highly inbred mouse strains (CXBI/ByJ, C57BL/6ByJ, and BALB/cJ). The progenitor strains and their F1 hybrids, were compared for mesencephalic TH activity with each other and with replicated F2 generations. Quantitative and non-parametric genetic analysis of the data raise the possibility that there is a major gene with robust additive effect that is primarily responsible for the difference between the progenitor strains with intermediate and high mesencephalic TH activity. Strain differences in mesencephalic TH activity have been linked to differences in number of dopamine (DA) neurons in that area. If genetic variation of mesencephalic TH activity is entirely attributable to variation in number of mesencephalic dopamine (DA) neurons, identification of the genetic sources of variation of mesencephalic TH activity may take us a step closer to animal models and preparations that are needed in the study of the physiological and constitutional mechanisms of human disorders in which DA neurotransmission is involved.
Murine tyrosine hydroxylase maps to the distal end of chromosome 7 within a region conserved in mouse and man.	The locus of the structural gene encoding tyrosine hydroxylase, Th, the rate limiting enzyme for catecholamine biosynthesis, was mapped to the distal end of mouse Chromosome (Chr) 7. A DNA probe of genomic origin of rat tyrosine hydroxylase was used to detect restriction fragment length variants among 8 inbred mouse strains. The strain distribution pattern of Th allelic variants in 3 sets of recombinant inbred mouse strains was determined. Comparison of the strain distribution patterns of Th alleles with those of previously typed loci suggested Th was located on Chr 7. The Chr 7 assignment for Th was confirmed by analyzing 108 mice produced from an (NZB X SM)F1 X NZB backcross. Moreover, the Th locus was positioned distally on Chr 7. Mouse Chr 7 and human Chr 11p (the location of the human tyrosine hydroxylase gene) are known to share several homologous loci. With the addition of Th, the homology between the distal 2/3 of mouse Chr 7 and human Chr 11p appears extensive.
Regulated expression of the tyrosine hydroxylase gene by epidermal growth factor.	The addition of epidermal growth factor (EGF) to cultures of the rat PCG2 pheochromocytoma cell line increased the level of RNA coding for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). A region of DNA containing 5'-flanking sequences of the TH gene was fused to a heterologous gene and transfected into a rat anterior pituitary cell line, GH4. The TH gene sequences from +27 to -272 contained information sufficient for the induction of TH by EGF. Two regions within this TH DNA were extensively homologous to the EGF regulatory element of the rat prolactin gene.
A cholinergic antagonist blocks cold stress-induced alterations in rat adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA.	The role of nicotinic cholinergic transmission in cold stress-induced alterations in rat adrenomedullary tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA was investigated by RNA dot-blot hybridization, using a cloned TH cDNA probe. Chlorisondamine, a ganglionic blocking agent, greatly attenuated the induction of TH mRNA levels caused by cold exposure, whereas carbachol and nicotine, cholinergic agonists, increased TH mRNA in control animals. These results suggest that cholinergic nicotinic receptors play a key role in the transsynaptic induction of adrenal TH gene expression.
Substance K (NKA) increases tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in cultured substantia nigra.	Cultured explants of the mouse substantia nigra were used to analyze mechanisms underlying the depolarization-induced increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity. Steady-state levels of messenger RNA encoding tyrosine hydroxylase were detected using an antisense riboprobe in an RNase protection assay. Explants exposed to the depolarizing agent, veratridine, exhibited an approximate 2-fold increase in tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA. Moreover, the native presynaptic excitatory agonist substance K also elicited a significant increase in tyrosine hydroxylase message. We conclude that depolarizing influences induce tyrosine hydroxylase in the cultured substantia nigra in association with an elevation of enzyme messenger RNA.
Isolation and nucleotide sequence of a cDNA clone encoding bovine adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase: comparative analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase gene products.	Investigations into the structure and mechanisms regulating the expression of the genes involved in catecholamine biosynthesis have led to the isolation of a cDNA coding for bovine adrenal tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The 1,722 bp cDNA contains the complete coding sequence and 3' untranslated region of the TH mRNA. The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA and the deduced amino acid sequence were compared to those reported for rat and human TH. Bovine TH shares 85% and 84% amino acid sequence identity with that of rat and human TH, respectively. Alignment of the amino acid sequences of rat, bovine, and human TH reveals that 79% of the residues are identical in all three species, indicating a strong evolutionary conservation of enzyme structure. Moreover, three of the four putative phosphorylation sites located in the N-terminal region of TH are conserved in these animal species. There are, however, some interspecies differences in TH gene products. The 3' untranslated region of bovine TH mRNA is 56 and 97 nucleotides shorter than rat and human TH mRNA, respectively. Additionally, the bovine protein is 7 and 6 amino acids smaller than its rat and human homologues. All of the absent amino acid residues of bovine TH are missing from an alanine-rich region in the N-terminal portion of the rat and human proteins (amino acids 51-68). Comparison of the size of bovine and rat TH mRNA and protein by northern blot and immunoblot analyses yielded differences consistent with those predicted from the nucleotide sequence data.
Levels of neurotransmitter and cytoskeletal protein mRNAs during nerve regeneration in sympathetic ganglia.	The present study examines levels of neurotransmitter messenger RNA (mRNA) at various stages after crush of postganglionic nerves in the superior cervical ganglia. Using complementary DNA (cDNA) probes, we demonstrated a reduction in ganglionic mRNA levels for tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) after axotomy. Concomitantly, actin and tubulin mRNA levels in ganglia were increased. Thus, in neurons of sympathetic ganglia, axotomy appears to be associated with a selective reduction in levels of TH mRNA, and, in turn, alters levels of protein and enzyme activities.
Genetic regulation of neurotransmitter enzymes and receptors: relationship to the inheritance of psychiatric disorders.	This report begins with a summary of the evidence for genetic involvement in certain major psychiatric syndromes. The relation of these disorders to deficits in central nervous system neurotransmitters is also summarized. These reviews serve as an introduction to our studies on the genetic regulation of neurotransmitters and their enzymes and receptors in inbred mice. The steady-state levels of the adrenal catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes are controlled genetically; not only is each enzyme regulated by a single locus, but also there is statistical evidence that the phenotypic expression of the entire pathway is regulated by a single gene. Studies on the biochemical mechanism of gene action suggest that genetic regulation is exerted on proteolysis of the enzymes, rather than their synthesis. In addition, we have examined the genetic control of dopamine receptors in inbred mice. Dopaminergic receptors in the nigrostriatal and mesolimbic pathways are under genetic control. Preliminary evidence suggests that the pathways are regulated by different genetic systems. If this early speculation proves true, it would have important clinical implications.
Neuropharmacogenetics and behavioral genetics.	Genetic studies of neurotransmitter processes to date differ from most behavioral genetic studies in that the former have rarely considered individual variability, have tended to look only for single-gene effects, and generally have overlooked or ignored environmental influences. After examining these differences, we suggest that a rapprochement between the two fields will yield synergistic benefits in studies of the genetics of neuropharmacological processes as they affect behavior.
Genetic models for the study of aggressive behavior.	The analysis of genetic contributions to aggressive behavior is both conceptually and methodologically difficult, so that substantive findings remain sparse. Like other major psychiatric disease states, inappropriately aggressive behavior must be considered a multifactorial disorder, with both genetic and environmental contributions required for clinical expression. The documented heterogeneity of these determinants suggests the futility of searching for unitary causes. This contribution reviews studies of major gene effects in inbred strains of mice with high aggressivity, and considers the relevance of some rare single-gene disorders in man which include uncontrollably aggressive behavior as part of the phenotype.
Chronic cocaine exposure in the fetal rhesus monkey: consequences for early development of dopamine neurons.	The effects of cocaine on the development of neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) were investigated in fetal rhesus macaques. Pregnant monkeys were treated with cocaine 3 mg/kg or saline i.m., four times a day from day 18 of pregnancy until days 40 or 60. Cocaine concentration in plasma from females thus treated was approximately 800 ng/ml 10-20 min following injection. At the time of C-section, plasma levels of cocaine in fetal blood were 231 +/- 70 ng/ml. The brains from 40 and 60 d old fetuses were examined using immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization. The appearance of neurons containing TH by day 40 of gestation was not different between control and cocaine-treated fetal monkeys. In both groups (N = 3 each) TH-IR neurons and TH mRNA were located in the mesencephalon and dorsal hypothalamus by day 40, and fiber projections extended to the developing striatum. Also in the day 60 fetuses, the TH-IR neurons were distributed similarly in both groups (N = 5 each), but the TH mRNA content, measured by quantitative in situ hybridization, was reduced in the substantia nigra (SN) and ventral tegmental area (VTA) after cocaine treatment. These data suggest that exposure to cocaine in fetal life does not affect the development of TH or the expression of its mRNA on day 40 of gestation. By day 60, however, the expression of TH mRNA was significantly reduced. This latter effect can be explained by reduced dopamine synthesis in the cocaine-treated fetuses.
Hemodynamic regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA in medullary catecholamine neurons: a c-fos-guided hybridization histochemical study.	Medullary catecholamine cell groups are involved in multiple modes of cardiovascular regulation and display indices of functional activation, including widespread c-fos expression, in response to hypotensive hemorrhage. Assessments of the impact of such challenges on transmitter-related gene expression are complicated by the biochemical and connectional heterogeneity that characterize these cell groups. Quantitative hybridization histochemical methods were used to follow the effects of 15% hemorrhage on levels of messenger RNA encoding tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis, in medullary aminergic neurons; concurrent staining for nuclear Fos-immunoreactivity permitted comparisons between cells that ostensibly were and were not targeted by the challenge. Increased levels of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA were detected in Fos-immunoreactive neurons in all cell groups examined. Mean maximal increases ranged between 133 and 192% of control values, and were attained within 0.5-1 h post-hemorrhage in noradrenergic (A1 and A2) cell groups, and at 2 h in adrenergic ones (C1, C2, and C2d or dorsal strip). By 4 h after the challenge, tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels in Fos-immunoreactive neurons in all cell groups had returned to control values. By contrast, tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA in non-Fos-immunoreactive cells either did not change significantly over the course of the experiment (C2 and C2d), or showed a rapid and transient increase, whose magnitude tended to be less than that seen in Fos-immunoreactive cells. c-fos messenger RNA was prominently induced in catecholaminergic neurons in each of the medullary cell groups examined at 0.5 h after hemorrhage, suggesting that the early tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA response to hemorrhage in non-Fos-immunoreactive cells preceded the capacity of responsive neurons to manifest detectable Fos protein expression. These findings indicate that hemorrhage up-regulates tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA levels in medullary catecholaminergic cell groups which have access to adaptive neuroendocrine and/or autonomic control systems. The approach employed here should prove of general utility in assessing the impact of environmental events on messenger RNA expression in connectionally heterogeneous cell groups that share a common biochemical phenotype.
Enhanced expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase in cerebellar Purkinje cells of mouse after hyperosmotic stimuli.	We examined by immunohistochemistry the effect of salt loading on the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), and GTP cyclohydrolase I (GCH) in Purkinje cells of the mouse cerebellum. In control mice, only a few Purkinje cells were positive for TH or AADC. No Purkinje cells were stained for GCH. Drinking 2% sodium chloride for 2 weeks resulted in an increase in the number of TH- or AADC-positive Purkinje cells in the caudal vermis, paraflocculus and flocculus of the cerebellum. In contrast, no Purkinje cells were immunoreactive to GCH or L-DOPA after the salt loading. The present findings suggest that the salt loading differentially affects the expression of TH, AADC and GCH in Purkinje cells of the mouse cerebellum.
Differential regulation of c-fos, proenkephalin and tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression by metrazole in the hamster adrenal and hippocampus.	Metrazole (MTZ) induces sequential activation of c-fos, proenkephalin (Penk) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene expression in the rat adrenal and c-fos and Penk gene expression in the rat hippocampus. As in the rat, MTZ produced a dose-dependent induction of c-fos mRNA in the hamster adrenal and hippocampus together with an increase in adrenal TH mRNA. Although MTZ-induction of preproenkephalin (PPenk) mRNA was observed in the hippocampus of the hamster, the same treatment failed to induce PPenk mRNA in the hamster adrenal. These results indicate that Penk gene expression in the hamster is differentially regulated in the adrenal and hippocampus. Furthermore, the regulation of adrenal Penk gene expression differs significantly when rat and hamster are compared.
Association of polymorphic VNTR region in the first intron of the human TH gene with disturbances of the catecholamine pathway in schizophrenia.	In the present study, five allelic fragments were typed by a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) process with a pair of primers specific for the tetranucleotide (TCAT) repeat sequence in the first intron of the human tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene and their sizes (bp) were 114 (A), 118 (B), 122 (C), 126 (D) and 130 (E), respectively. The AE genotypic frequency was found to be significantly higher in unrelated patients with schizophrenia than in unrelated control subjects (chi 2 = 4.18, p < 0.05). ANOVA revealed a significant difference between the three groups (neuroleptic-free patients possessing or not possessing the AE genotype, and unrelated control subjects) in the concentration of serum noradrenaline (F = 4.96, df = 2.79, p < 0.01), but no significant differences were found between the three groups in the concentrations of serum homovanillic acid, phenylalanine and tyrosine. These results suggest that the polymorphic intron 1 of the human TH gene may be associated with disturbances of the catecholamine pathway in schizophrenia.
Targeted disruption of the tyrosine hydroxylase locus results in severe catecholamine depletion and perinatal lethality in mice.	Tyrosine 3-hydroxylase (TH, EC 1.14.16.2) catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step of the catecholamine biosynthetic pathway in the nervous and endocrine systems. The TH locus was disrupted in mouse embryonic stem cells by homologous recombination. Mice heterozygous for the TH mutation were apparently normal. In these mice, TH activity in the embryos and adult tissues was less than 50% of the wild-type values, but the catecholamine level was decreased only moderately in the developing animals and was maintained normally at adulthood, suggesting the presence of a regulatory mechanism for ensuring the proper catecholamine level during animal development. In contrast, the homozygous mutant mice died at a late stage of embryonic development or shortly after birth. Both TH mRNA and enzyme activity were lacking in the homozygous mutants, which thus explained the severe depletion of catecholamines. These changes, however, did not affect gross morphological development of the cells that normally express high catecholamine levels. Analysis of electrocardiograms of surviving newborn mutants showed bradycardia, suggesting an alteration of cardiac functions in the homozygous mice that may lead to the lethality of this mutation. In addition, transfer of a human TH transgene into the homozygous mice corrected the mutant phenotype, showing recovery of TH activity by expression of the human enzyme. These results indicate that TH is essential for survival of the animals during the late gestational development and after birth.
TH mRNA over-expression in rats with chronic excitotoxic striatal lesions.	Twenty weeks after ibotenic acid lesions of the striatum, the amount of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in this structure was markedly increased. This was accompanied by a 3-fold increase in TH mRNA levels in the ipsilateral subtantia nigra (SN). Striatal levels of dopamine (DA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) were markedly reduced. In the nucleus accumbens, spared by the lesion, DA neurotransmission was also altered, as evidenced by a reduction of DA and DOPAC, but no increase in TH could be detected. TH mRNA levels were moderately enhanced in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Thus, lesioning in the striatum induces TH gene activation in both SN and VTA neurones, not strictly related to DA function at the terminal level.
Direct intracerebral gene transfer of an adenoviral vector expressing tyrosine hydroxylase in a rat model of Parkinson's disease.	Direct intracerebral gene transfer to neural cells has been demonstrated with recombinant adenovirus encoding beta-galactosidase. To explore the potential of recombinant adenovirus for the therapy of neurological disease we constructed a recombinant adenovirus encoding tyrosine hydroxylase and optimized intracerebral injection to express the gene in the striatum of unilaterally denervated rats. These animals have dopamine depletion in their lesioned striatum, causing a rotation asymmetry induced by apomorphine. One and two weeks after intracerebral injection this sensorimotor asymmetry was decreased by the adenovirus encoding tyrosine hydroxylase and not by a control adenovirus encoding beta-galactosidase. Histological analysis showed that tyrosine hydroxylase was preferentially expressed in astrocytes.
Regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression in mesencephalic dopamine neurons: effect of imipramine treatment.	The effects of a chronic imipramine treatment on the mesoamygdaloid pathway of rats were examined. Using semiquantitative immunocytochemical techniques, it was observed that the level of TH mRNA was decreased in the ventral tegmental area (VTA). In contrast, the TH protein was increased in both the VTA and amygdala. The TH activity was decreased in the amygdala when assessed under normal conditions but increased after a preincubation to phosphorylate the enzyme, suggesting a lowering of the protein-specific activity in the terminals. These results show that TH protein turnover in the mesoamygdaloid neurons can be reduced by chronic imipramine treatments, thereby producing an accumulation of inactive TH protein in the neurons while also decreasing TH gene activity in the cell bodies.
Association and haplotype analysis at the tyrosine hydroxylase locus in a combined German-British sample of manic depressive patients and controls.	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is the key enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines and may therefore be of aetiological relevance in the development of psychiatric illness. Hipolar affective disorder association studies, with restriction fragment length polymorphisms located in flanking regions of the TH gene, have shown conflicting results. Alleles of a tetranucleotide repeat polymorphism (TH4) located in intron 1 of the gene were tested for association with bipolar affective disorder in a combined German and British sample of 183 bipolar patients and 209 healthy control probands. No differences in TH4 allele frequencies were found in the two groups. A subset of patients and controls was typed with the flanking markers Ty7/BglII and pJ4.7/TaqI and frequencies of two-locus haplotypes were estimated. Linkage disequilibrium was found between TH4-Ty7 and TH4-pJ4.7. Haplotype frequencies did not differ between patients and controls.
Plasticity of tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNAs in visceral afferent neurons of the nodose ganglion upon axotomy-induced deafferentation.	The nodose ganglion contains placode-derived visceral sensory neurons of the vagus nerve. Previous study showed that axotomy-induced deafferentation reduced the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive and increased the number of vasoactive intestinal peptide-immunoreactive neurons in the ganglion. The present study was conducted to determine whether the changes in neuropeptide/neurotransmitter enzyme content are associated with changes in the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNAs in the nodose ganglion. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry with 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes for tyrosine hydroxylase and vasoactive intestinal peptide precursor messenger RNAs. Peripheral axotomy of visceral afferent inputs reduced tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA and increased vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNA expression in neurons of the nodose ganglion of the rat. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA-containing neurons was significantly reduced at three, seven and 14 days after axotomy-induced deafferentation compared with intact and sham-operated controls. Labeling density of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA-containing neurons was significantly reduced at three and seven days. Conversely, the number of vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNA-containing neurons increased significantly at three, seven and 14 days, while the labeling density of vasoactive intestinal peptide messenger RNA-containing neurons also increased at one, three, seven and 14 days. The results of the present study indicate that the axotomy-induced down-regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase and up-regulation of vasoactive intestinal peptide in the neurons of the nodose ganglion are associated with changes in their messenger RNAs in response to axotomy-induced deafferentation.
Peripherally administered (6R)-tetrahydrobiopterin increases in vivo tyrosine hydroxylase activity in the striatum measured by microdialysis both in normal mice and in transgenic mice carrying human tyrosine hydroxylase.	The intraperitoneal administration of (6R)-L-erythro-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin (6R-BH4), the natural cofactor of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), increased the accumulation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) measured using microdialysis under the inhibition of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase by NSD-1015 (in vivo TH activity) in the striatum both of transgenic mice carrying human TH gene and of non-transgenic mice, to a similar extent by about 4-fold. The results indicate that the peripherally administered 6R-BH4 activates in vivo TH activity in the nigrostriatal dopamine neurons in both non-transgenic and transgenic mice.
5' upstream DNA sequence of the rat tyrosine hydroxylase gene directs high-level and tissue-specific expression to catecholaminergic neurons in the central nervous system of transgenic mice.	Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the first and rate-limiting enzyme in the biosynthesis of catecholamine neurotransmitters, is expressed within central and peripheral catecholaminergic cells. To delineate DNA sequences necessary for tissue-specific expression of the rat TH gene, transgenic mice were produced containing 0.15 kb, 2.4 kb, and 9.0 kb of 5' flanking sequence fused to the E. coli lacZ (beta-galactosidase) reporter gene. The reporter gene expression in the transgenic animals was monitored by both X-gal histochemical staining and beta-galactosidase immunohistochemistry and compared to TH mRNA and protein expression. Transgenic mice bearing 9.0 kb, but not the smaller constructs with either 2.4 kb or 0.15 kb of 5' flanking sequence, fused to lacZ were able to direct high level expression of beta-galactosidase at levels equivalent to the endogenous TH in central catecholaminergic cells, and to a lesser degree to adrenal gland. Previously, 4.8 kb of 5' flanking region was reported to contain some tissue-specific element(s) determined by chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) assay using regional brain dissections and was not able to demonstrate cellular localization of the CAT expression [2]. Using histological procedures which allow for spatial resolution, this study demonstrated that the crucial catecholaminergic neuron-specific DNA element(s) resides between -9 kb and -2.4 kb of the 5' flanking region of the rat TH gene; this assertion is substantiated by the high-level of tissue-specific expression of lacZ in catecholaminergic cells.
Analysis of the D4 dopamine receptor gene variant in an Italian schizophrenia kindred.	Among the different dopamine receptors, the D4 dopamine receptor is of particular interest in schizophrenia because of its high affinity for the atypical neuroleptic clozapine. Recently, the gene for the D4 dopamine receptor has been cloned and a new and intriguing polymorphism has been described. Different versions of the receptor have varying affinity for clozapine, and thus variant froms of D4 with differing pharmacologic activity exist in the human population. Our hypothesis was that these variants play a role in susceptibility to psychotic illness. Thus, our objective was to test the D4 dopamine receptor genes for linkage to schizophrenia.
Dopaminergic and peptidergic mRNA levels in juvenile rat brain after prenatal cocaine treatment.	The effects of prenatal cocaine treatment on gene expression in dopaminergic pathways of juvenile rats were investigated by in situ hybridization histochemistry. Pregnant rats from gestational day 8 to 20 were administered one of the following treatments: (A) 40 mg/kg cocaine hydrochloride/3 ml/day s.c.; (B) 0.9% saline/3 ml/day s.c. and pair fed to cocaine-exposed dams; (C) 0.9% saline/3 ml/day s.c. and placement on cellulose-diluted diet to match the caloric intake of the cocaine-treated group without explicit food restriction; (D) no injection and lab chow diet. Levels of mRNA for the dopamine transporter, tyrosine hydroxylase, cholecystokinin, D1 and D2 dopamine receptors and enkephalin were quantitated in relevant dopaminergic regions of forebrain and midbrain of offspring that were sacrificed on postnatal day 21. Quantitative analysis revealed no significant changes in mRNA levels in any of the brain regions examined. In the present animal model, cocaine exposure in utero had no significant effect on mRNA levels of the dopamine transporter, D1 or D2 dopamine receptors, enkephalin, tyrosine hydroxylase, or cholecystokinin in juvenile rats.
Fos family members successively occupy the tyrosine hydroxylase gene AP-1 site after nerve growth factor or epidermal growth factor stimulation and can repress transcription.	Nerve growth factor induces the neuronal-like differentiation of PC12 cells, and epidermal growth factor promotes PC12 viability and is weakly mitogenic. Despite these differences, both growth factors induce indistinguishable patterns of transient delayed transcription of the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene and the expression of proteins encoded by Fos gene family members. Thus, TH expression is sensitive to signaling pathways common to these two growth factors. We show that c-fos and fosB successively occupy an AP-1 site-like element of the TH promoter after nerve growth factor treatment. Furthermore, under conditions of transient transfection, Fos family proteins may synergize with c-jun to transrepress TH gene transcription through the TH-fat-specific element. We show that the target of repression is the AP-1 site-like element that lies within the TH-fat-specific element. We demonstrate that this site is also a major positive acting site for TH control. These results suggest a model in which the long term effect of c-fos family protein expression is to limit the expression of the TH gene. We consider the novel properties of this element in providing temporal and cell type-specific regulation of TH transcription.
Repeated stress reduces the subsequent stress-induced expression of Fos in rat brain.	Repeated stress is known to potentiate the CNS response to subsequent stress. Various stressful stimuli can induce Fos expression in discrete regions of the brain, such as the lateral septum, the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and the locus coeruleus. We investigated by immunohistochemistry the effect of the stress of repeated immobilization on Fos expression in those regions of the brain in adult male rats. Six daily immobilizations suppressed the expression of Fos in all regions when immobilization was subsequently applied, suggesting that Fos does not play a major role in potentiating the stress response under repeated stressed conditions.
Sympathetic nervous system: aging and exercise.	Both aging and exercise are associated with alterations in regulation of catecholamines. With aging, elevated circulating catecholamines at rest and after stress may result in increased sympathetic nervous system activity. The ability of the catecholaminergic system of older subjects to respond and adapt to environmental challenges is altered during aging. One consequence of these changes may be the increased prevalence of hypertension with age. Exercise training reduces both systolic and diastolic blood pressure in young and elderly hypertensive subjects. The reduction in catecholamine synthesis after training may be linked to the beneficial effects of exercise in hypertensive individuals.
Unilateral stimulation or removal of rat vibrissae: analysis of nerve growth factor and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in the brain.	Previous work has shown that unilateral manipulation of vibrissae in the rat can lead to behavioral asymmetries and to neuronal changes in the basal ganglia: in brief, vibrissae stimulation led to increases in neostriatal dopamine release, whereas unilateral removal of vibrissae led to asymmetries in striatal afferents and to bilateral changes in mesencephalic dopamine mechanisms which were related to the occurrence of behavioral asymmetries and the later recovery therefrom. In the present study, the analysis of neuronal mechanisms possibly affected by vibrissae manipulation was extended to the nerve growth factor and the expression of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA. Unilateral stimulation or removal of the vibrissae did not lead to significant changes in tissue levels of nerve growth factor in the neostriatum, parietal cortex (including the barrel cortex) or the hippocampus. In contrast, tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area was affected by vibrissae removal but not by stimulation, as a bilateral increase in labeling was observed on the level of individual neurons. This effect was only observed in animals tested 4 h after vibrissae removal but not after 10 days. The results are discussed with respect to the interaction of vibrissae function with the basal ganglia, the neurotransmitter dopamine and mechanism of functional recovery.
Expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in an immortalized human fetal astrocyte cell line; in vitro characterization and engraftment into the rodent striatum.	The use of primary human fetal tissue in the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders, while promising, faces several difficult technical and ethical issues. An alternative approach that would obviate these problems would be to use immortalized cell lines of human fetal central nervous system origin. An immortalized human fetal astrocyte cell line (SVG) has been established (45) and herein we describe the in vitro and in vivo characteristics of this cell line which suggest that it may be a useful vehicle for neural transplantation. The SVG cell line is vimentin, GFAP, Thy 1.1 and MHC class I positive, and negative for neurofilament and neuron specific enolase, consistent with its glial origin. To determine whether the cell line could be used as a drug delivery system, a cDNA expression vector for tyrosine hydroxylase was constructed (phTH/Neo) and stably expressed in the SVG cells for over 18 months as demonstrated by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting of the stable transfectants. HPLC analysis of the supernatant from these cells, termed SVG-TH, consistently found 4-6 pmol/ml/min of l-dopa produced with the addition of BH4 to the media. Furthermore, in cocultivation experiments with hNT neurons, PC-12 cells and primary rat fetal mesencephalic tissue, both the SVG and SVG-TH cells demonstrated neurotrophic potential, suggesting that they constituitively express factors with neuroregenerative potential. To determine the viability of these cells in vivo, SVG-TH cells were grafted into the striatum of Sprague-Dawley rats and followed over time. A panel of antibodies was used to unequivocally differentiate the engrafted cells from the host parenchyma, including antibodies to: SV40 large T antigen (expressed in the SVG-TH cells), human and rat MHC class 1, vimentin, GFAP, and tyrosine hydroxylase. While the graft was easily identified with the first week, over the course of a four week period of time the engrafted cells decreased in number. Concomittantly, rat CD4 and CD8 expression in the vicinity of the graft increased, consistent with xenograft rejection. When the SVG-TH cells were grafted to the lesioned striatum of a 6-hydroxydopamine lesioned rats, rotational behavior of the rat decreased as much as 80% initially, then slowly returned to baseline over the next four weeks, parallelling graft rejection. Thus, the SVG-TH cells can induce a functional recovery in an animal model of Parkinson's disease, however as a xenograft, the SVG cells are recognized by the immune system.
No evidence of linkage between schizophrenia and D2 dopamine receptor gene locus in Italian pedigrees.	Our purpose was to test the dopamine D2 receptor gene (DRD2), the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene and the monoamino oxydase A (MAO-A) gene for linkage to schizophrenia and bipolar disorders. We have analyzed seven Italian families with schizophrenia and four families with bipolar disorders for a total of 68 individuals; 32 individuals were affected. Diagnoses were made using the structured clinical interview Schedule for Affective Disorders and Schizophrenia, Lifetime version (SADS-L). The results of our study provide no evidence of linkage between alleles at D2 dopamine receptor loci and schizophrenia or bipolar disorders. The markers TH gene and MAO-A gene give slightly positive or negative results suggesting the utility of further analysis on more informative families.
Rats bred for enhanced apomorphine susceptibility have elevated tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA and dopamine D2-receptor binding sites in nigrostriatal and tuberoinfundibular dopamine systems.	From a Wistar population two rat lines were generated using as criterion the behavioral response to the dopamine agonist apomorphine. Rats of the apomorphine-susceptible (apo-sus) line revealed a vigorous gnawing response to apomorphine administration while the other rat line, the apomorphine-unsusceptible (apo-unsus) line, was selected for lack of response to the drug. In the present study using the 12th and 13th generation of these genetically selected lines, we have investigated whether this difference in apomorphine responsiveness was correlated with changes in dopamine neurochemistry. Therefore, we measured tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate limiting enzyme in dopamine synthesis, as well as dopamine D1 and D2 receptor mRNA levels in discrete brain regions by in situ hybridization. Dopamine (D2/D3) receptor binding was assessed with [125I]iodosulpride in a membrane binding assay and by quantitative autoradiography on tissue sections. [3H]SCH 23390 was used to analyze D1 receptor binding. Apo-sus rats displayed significantly higher TH mRNA levels in the A9 cell group of the substantia nigra pars compacta and in the A12 cell group of the arcuate nucleus. No difference was found in the A10 cell group of the VTA and the A6 cell group of the locus coeruleus. The density of D2/3 binding sites as well as D1 receptor mRNA levels in the striatal projection area of the A9 substantia nigra neurons, were significantly elevated in apo-sus rats. Dopamine D2 receptor mRNA and D1 receptor binding levels in caudate putamen and nucleus accumbens, however, were similar in rats of both lines. In conclusion, high apomorphine susceptibility is related to a potentially enhanced dopamine responsiveness selective for the nigrostriatal and tuberoinfundibular pathways.
Early ontogeny of catecholaminergic cell lineage in brain and peripheral neurons monitored by tyrosine hydroxylase-lacZ transgene.	As the first and rate limiting enzyme in the biosynthetic pathway for catecholamine (CA) neurotransmitters, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) is a specific phenotypic marker for CA cells in the central and peripheral nervous systems of adult animals. During embryogenesis, TH expression appears permanently within cells destined to be CA-secreting during adult life, and transiently in several cell types that will not express TH in adulthood. In this study, we examined the early ontogeny of TH expression in transgenic mouse embryos by following the expression of a lacZ reporter, driven by the tissue-specific promoter of the rat TH gene. The lacZ reporter product, beta-galactosidase (beta-gal), visualized by X-gal staining, first became apparent in primordia of sensory ganglia serving the glossopharyngeal (IX) and vagal (X) cranial nerves at embryonic day (E)9.0. Between E9.5 and E10.5, beta-gal expression extended to the remaining cranial sensory ganglia serving the trigeminal (V) and facial (VII) nerves, dorsal root ganglia, ventrolateral neural tube and sympathetic ganglion primordia. During that same period, the first beta-gal expression in the embryonic brain also appeared within distinct regions, such as the ventral prosencephalon, the ventral and dorsolateral mesencephalon and the rostral and caudal rhombencephalon. The level of beta-gal expression in all these tissues decreased at E13.5, but a distinct adult pattern of beta-gal expression started to emerge in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area in the central nervous system and the adrenal medulla in the periphery. Our findings indicate that the proximal 9.0 kb of the 5' promoter region of the rat TH gene encodes sufficient information to direct development of the appropriate catecholaminergic lineage cells in the central and most peripheral nervous systems during embryogenesis.
In vivo expression of therapeutic human genes for dopamine production in the caudates of MPTP-treated monkeys using an AAV vector.	An adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector, expressing genes for human tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC), demonstrated significantly increased production of dopamine in 293 (human embryonic kidney) cells. This bicistronic vector was used to transduce striatal cells of six asymptomatic but dopamine-depleted monkeys which had been treated with the neurotoxin MPTP. Striatal cells were immunoreactive for the vector-encoded TH after stereotactic injection for periods up to 134 days, with biochemical effects consistent with dopamine biosynthetic enzyme expression. A subsequent experiment was carried out in six more severely depleted and parkinsonian monkeys. Several TH/aadc-treated monkeys showed elevated levels of dopamine near injection tracts after 2.5 months. Two monkeys that received a beta-galactosidase expressing vector showed no change in striatal dopamine. Behavioral changes could not be statistically related to the vector treatment groups. Toxicity was limited to transient fever in several animals and severe hyperactivity in one animal in the first days after injection with no associated histological evidence of inflammation. This study shows the successful transfection of primate neurons over a period up to 2.5 months with suggestive evidence of biochemical phenotypic effects and without significant toxicity. While supporting the idea of an in vivo gene therapy for Parkinson's disease, more consistent and longer lasting biochemical and behavioral effects will be necessary to establish the feasibility of this appraoch in a primate model of parkinsonism.
Overexpression of glia maturation factor (GMF) in PC12 pheochromocytoma cells activates p38 MAP kinase, MAPKAP kinase-2, and tyrosine hydroxylase.	In order to study the intracellular regulatory function of glia maturation factor (GMF) in neuronal cells, we achieved a 10-fold overexpression of GMF in the rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC12 by infection with a replication-defective human adenovirus carrying a rat GMF cDNA insert. These cells showed a 3.6-fold increase in the activity of p38 MAP kinase, a 3.8-fold increase in the activity of MAPKAP-K2 (MAP kinase-activated protein kinase 2), and a 4.2-fold increase in the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). We also detected an increase in the phosphorylation of TH and the 25-kDa heat shock protein (Hsp25) without a concomitant increase in their corresponding protein levels, suggesting a posttranslational modification. It was previously established that in PC12 cells, MAPKAP-K2 is an immediate target of p38, and both TH and Hsp25 are immediate targets of MAPKAP-K2. The current in vivo results are in concordance with our earlier in vitro finding that GMF promotes the activity of p38, and they implicate the participation of GMF in stress-induced catecholamine synthesis.
Systematic search for variations in the tyrosine hydroxylase gene and their associations with schizophrenia, affective disorders, and alcoholism.	Tyrosine hydroxylase is the rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of catecholamines. To find variants in the tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene that are associated with schizophrenia, mood disorders, or alcohol dependence, all of the exons, the exon-intron boundaries, and the 5' promoter region of the TH gene were systematically screened for variants by single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis followed by direct nucleotide sequencing. Source DNAs for sequencing were from 88 Japanese patients comprised of 17 schizophrenics, 21 with mood disorders, and 50 alcoholics. Two novel variants, T-229A and Val468Met, were identified. Case-control comparisons demonstrated that distribution of these two variants were similar in the controls and the three psychiatric groups. Distributions of the previously reported Val81Met polymorphism alleles and the intron 1 TCAT repeat polymorphism alleles were similar in the four subject groups. Our study indicates that the TH gene is not likely to play a major role in the genetic predisposition to schizophrenia, mood disorders, or alcohol dependence.
Genetic polymorphisms of TH01 and VWA loci in Tibetans in China]	To understand the genetic relationship between Han population and Tibetan population, the genetic polymorphisms of two STR loci, TH01 and VWA were studied in the Tibetans in China.
Regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase gene expression during transdifferentiation of striatal neurons: changes in transcription factors binding the AP-1 site.	We have shown previously that the synergistic interaction of acidic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF) and a coactivator (dopamine, protein kinase A, or protein kinase C activator) will induce the novel expression of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in neurons of the developing striatum. In this study we sought to determine whether, concomitant with TH expression, there were unique changes in transcription factors binding the AP-1 regulatory element on the TH gene. Indeed, we found a significant recruitment of proteins into TH-AP-1 complexes as well as a shift from low- to high-affinity binding. Supershift experiments further revealed dramatic changes in the proteins comprising the AP-1 complexes, including recruitment of the transcriptional activators c-Fos, a novel Fos protein, Fos-B, and Jun-D. Concomitantly, there was a decrease in repressor-type factors ATF-2 and CREM-1. aFGF appeared to play a central but insufficient role, requiring the further participation of at least one of the coactivating substances. Experiments examining the signal transduction pathway involved in mediating these nuclear events demonstrated that the presence of only an FGF (1, 2, 4, 9) competent to induce TH caused the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK). Moreover, the treatment of cells with MEK/ERK inhibitors (apigenin or PD98059) eliminated TH expression and the associated AP-1 changes, suggesting that MAPK was a critical mediator of these events. We conclude that, during transdifferentiation, signals may be transmitted via MAPK to the TH-AP-1 site to increase activators and reduce repressors, helping to shift the balance in favor of TH gene expression at this and possibly other important regulatory sites on the gene.
Contribution of dopamine neurons in the medial zona incerta to the innervation of the central nucleus of the amygdala, horizontal diagonal band of Broca and hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus.	Results of previous studies suggested that incertohypothalamic dopamine (IHDA) neurons located in the medial zona incerta (MZI) project to the central nucleus of the amygdala (cAMY), horizontal diagonal band of Broca (HDB), and paraventricular nucleus (PVN). The overall goal of the present study was to determine the relative contribution of IHDA neurons to the DA innervation of these brain regions. A combined fluorescent and in situ hybridization histochemical procedure was employed to localize the retrograde tracer fluoro-gold (FG) in cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) mRNA in the MZI following its iontophoretic injection into either the cAMY, HDB or PVN. For comparison, the numbers of dual labeled FG/TH mRNA neurons in the midbrain were also determined. One week after unilateral injection of FG into the cAMY, cells containing FG+TH mRNA were found in the ipsilateral MZI, substantia nigra zona compacta (SNC) and ventral tegmental area (VTA). The total numbers of cells labeled with FG varied with the size of the injection site, but the ratio of dual labeling in the MZI to that of the SNC-VTA remained constant across animals at approximately 1:6. FG injections into the HDB resulted in a ratio of dual labeled cells in the ipsilateral MZI and VTA of approximately 1:2, but no dual labeled cells were found in the SNC. Dual labeled cells were only found in the ipsilateral MZI in animals receiving FG injections in the PVN. Thus, DA terminals in the PVN originate exclusively from IHDA neurons in the MZI, whereas these neurons provide only a portion of the DA innervation of the cAMY and HDB. The similar distribution of dual labeled cells in the MZI following FG injections into the cAMY, HDB and PVN suggests that perikarya of IHDA neurons projecting to these regions are not organized into distinct groups.
Positive association of tyrosine hydroxylase microsatellite marker to essential hypertension.	Despite advances in the understanding of monogenic hypertensive disorders, the genetic contribution to essential hypertension has yet to be elucidated. The position of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) as the rate-limiting enzyme in catecholamine biosynthesis renders it a candidate gene for the etiology of hypertension. The TH gene contains an internal, informative microsatellite marker (TCAT)9. We undertook (1) an association study in a group of well-characterized hypertensive subjects (HT) and control subjects (NT) and (2) an affected sibling pair (ASP) study using sibships from our local family practices. Two hundred twenty-seven hypertensive patients (pretreatment systolic/diastolic blood pressure [BP] range, 139/94 to 237/133 mm Hg; age range [SD], 30 to 71 [8.5] years) were age- and gender-matched with 206 control subjects (BP range, 96/62 to 153/86 mm Hg; age range, 40 to 70 [7.6] years). One hundred thirty-six affected sibling pairs were recruited for our linkage study; 73 young borderline hypertensive subjects (YHT) (pretreatment BP range, 123/76 to 197/107 mm Hg; age range, 20 to 51 [9.4] years) were also recruited in whom recent pretreatment norepinephrine and epinephrine levels were available. All subjects were white. The TH short tandem repeat (STR) was amplified using specific polymerase chain reaction cycling conditions in all subjects, and products were run on an ABI 373A sequencer. TH alleles were assigned using Genescan and Genotyper software. Five TH alleles were present and designated A through E. Allele frequencies in the NT population (A, B, C, D, and E: 0.24, 0.17, 0.13, 0.20, and 0.26, respectively) were significantly different from the HT cohort (A, B, C, D, and E: 0.24, 0.19, 0.11, 0.11, and 0.35, respectively), P<0. 0005 (Pearson's test chi2=19.94; 4 df). The E allele appears overrepresented in the HT group, whereas the D allele appears to be overrepresented in the NT group. TH genotype frequencies were also significantly different between cases and controls (P<0.001; chi2=36. 57; 14 df). Both groups were in Hardy-Weinberg proportion. There was a trend (NS) for the D allele to be associated with a lower BP when BP was analyzed as a quantitative trait. ASP linkage data was analyzed using Splink, a nonparametric program. Expected values for sharing 0, 1, and 2 alleles (Z0, Z1, and Z2, respectively) may be expected to be 25%, 50%, and 25%, respectively, by chance (assuming identity by descent). These probabilities were calculated by Splink as 34, 68, and 34, respectively, and compared with observed values of 36.8, 67.9, and 31.3, respectively; thus, there was no excess sharing of TH alleles among affected sibling pairs (P=0.59; logarithm of odds ratio score, 0.0). TH allele frequencies in our YHT group (A, B, C, D, and E: 0.24, 0.20, 0.12, 0.15, and 0.29, respectively) were similar to those of our NT cohort (P>0.05). There was a trend for lower pretreatment plasma norepinephrine levels with the D allele in this YHT cohort. A common and potentially functional variant at codon 81(Val-->Met) within exon 2 of the TH gene (which we show to be in linkage disequilibrium with TH-STR) was also typed in our YHT but did not associate with catecholamine levels and is therefore unlikely to account for our findings with D and E TH-STR. In conclusion, the TH locus strongly associates with essential hypertension in a case-control model using well-characterized hypertensive and control groups. An ASP linkage model was negative, presumably because of lack of power. This study suggests that the TH gene, or a nearby gene, may be involved in the etiology of essential hypertension.
Altered gene expression for catecholamine biosynthetic enzymes and stress response in rat genetic model of depression.	Although stress is a major contributory factor in the development of depression, the relationship between stress and depression is still unclear. In this study, we evaluated basal mRNA levels of several genes involved in neurotransmitter biosynthesis and the effect of stress in Flinder's Sensitive Line (FSL), a genetic rat model of depression. In adrenals, basal levels of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), dopamine beta-hydroxylase (DBH), phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) and GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) mRNAs were markedly elevated in FSL rats compared to the control strain. As opposed to control strain, immobilization stress (IMO) to FSL rats, did not further raise DBH, PNMT or GTPCH mRNAs and had relatively mild effect on TH. In contrast to enzymes involved in catecholamine biosynthesis, basal NPY and its response to IMO were unchanged in FSL rats. In the brain, the two major dopaminergic nuclei displayed differences. In substantia nigra, TH mRNA levels were similar in both strains, and elevated by IMO only in FSL rats. In ventral tegmental area in FSL rats, TH mRNA was 2-fold higher than in the control strain and not further elevated by IMO. These high basal mRNA levels and abnormal response to stress in several catecholaminergic cell types in FSL rats may be related to the manifestations of depression.
Behavioral recovery in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats by cotransduction of striatum with tyrosine hydroxylase and aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase genes using two separate adeno-associated virus vectors.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by the progressive loss of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra and a severe decrease in dopamine in the striatum. A promising approach to the gene therapy of PD is intrastriatal expression of enzymes in the biosynthetic pathway for dopamine. Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) catalyzes the synthesis of L-dopa, which must be converted to dopamine by aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC). Since the endogenous AADC activity in the striatum is considered to be low, coexpression of both TH and AADC in the same striatal cells would increase the dopamine production and thereby augment the therapeutic effects. In the present study, the TH gene and also the AADC gene were simultaneously transduced into rat striatal cells, using two separate adeno-associated virus (AAV) vectors, AAV-TH and AAV-AADC. Immunostaining showed that TH and AADC were coexpressed efficiently in the same striatal cells in vitro and in vivo. Moreover, cotransduction with these two AAV vectors resulted in more effective dopamine production and more remarkable behavioral recovery in 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-lesioned rats, compared with rats receiving AAV-TH alone (p < 0.01). These findings suggest an alternative strategy for gene therapy of PD and indicate that the simultaneous transduction with two AAV vectors can extend their utility for potential gene therapy applications.
