Highly-efficient purification of native polyhistidine-tagged proteins by multivalent NTA-modified magnetic nanoparticles.	A new bis-nitrilotriacetic acid (NTA) chelate with catechol anchor was synthesized and immobilized on superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles. When loaded with Ni(II), these bis-NTA-immobilized nanoparticles were shown to bind polyhistidine (His x 6-tagged) fusion proteins in their native, folded conformations that commercial microbeads failed to bind under identical conditions. Control experiments with a mono-NTA chelate immobilized on iron oxide nanoparticles indicate a similarly high affinity for His x 6-tagged native proteins, suggesting that the high density of the mono-NTA chelate presented by the nanoparticles allows the binding of the His x 6-tag to more than one Ni-NTA moiety on the surface. This study shows that the multivalency strategy can be utilized to enhance the binding of His x 6-tagged proteins in their native, folded conformations. We further demonstrated the selective purification of His x 6-tagged proteins from crude cell lysates by using the Ni(II)-loaded iron oxide nanoparticles. The present platform is capable of efficient purification of His x 6-tagged proteins that are expressed at low levels in mammalian cells. This work thus presents a novel nanoparticle-based high-capacity protein purification system with shorter incubation times, proportionally large washes, and significantly smaller elution volumes compared to commercially available microbeads.
An automated microseed matrix-screening method for protein crystallization.	A microseed-matrix procedure has been established with the aim of influencing the nucleation event in standard crystallization screens. The method is based on the original description of matrix seeding described by Ireton & Stoddard (2004, Acta Cryst. D60, 601-605). Seed stocks are produced using a simple "seed-bead" method. The protein, reservoir solutions and seed stocks are pipetted simultaneously using a three-bore dispensing tip in drops of 0.6 microl total volume. The number and type of hits produced with the proteins tested in this study has been increased and it is believed that this method could be generally applicable to proteins where little or no nucleation is normally observed.
The co-crystal structure of ubiquitin carboxy-terminal hydrolase L1 (UCHL1) with a tripeptide fluoromethyl ketone (Z-VAE(OMe)-FMK).	UCHL1 is a 223 amino acid member of the UCH family of deubiquitinating enzymes (DUBs), found abundantly and exclusively expressed in neurons and the testis in normal tissues. Two naturally occurring variants of UCHL1 are directly involved in Parkinson's disease (PD). Not only has UCHL1 been linked to PD, but it has oncogenic properties, having been found abnormally expressed in lung, pancreatic, and colorectal cancers. Although inhibitors of UCHL1 have been described previously the co-crystal structure of the enzyme bound to any inhibitor has not been reported. Herein, we report the X-ray structure of UCHL1 co-crystallized with a peptide-based fluoromethylketone inhibitor, Z-VAE(OMe)-FMK (VAEFMK) at 2.35 Å resolution. The co-crystal structure reveals that the inhibitor binds in the active-site cleft, irreversibly modifying the active-site cysteine; however, the catalytic histidine is still misaligned as seen in the native structure, suggesting that the inhibitor binds to an inactive form of the enzyme. Our structure also reveals that the inhibitor approaches the active-site cleft from the opposite side of the crossover loop as compared to the direction of approach of ubiquitin's C-terminal tail, thereby occupying the P1' (leaving group) site, a binding site perhaps used by the unknown C-terminal extension of ubiquitin in the actual in vivo substrate(s) of UCHL1. This structure provides a view of molecular contacts at the active-site cleft between the inhibitor and the enzyme as well as furnishing structural information needed to facilitate further design of inhibitors targeted to UCHL1 with high selectivity and potency.
Mechanism of recruitment and activation of the endosome-associated deubiquitinase AMSH.	AMSH, a deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB) with exquisite specificity for Lys63-linked polyubiquitin chains, is an endosome-associated DUB that regulates sorting of activated cell-surface signaling receptors to the lysosome, a process mediated by the members of the endosomal sorting complexes required for transport (ESCRT) machinery. Whole-exome sequencing of DNA samples from children with microcephaly capillary malformation (MIC-CAP) syndrome identified recessive mutations encoded in the AMSH gene causatively linked to the disease. Herein, we report a number of important observations that significantly advance our understanding of AMSH within the context of the ESCRT machinery. First, we performed mutational and kinetic analysis of the putative residues involved in diubiquitin recognition and catalysis with a view of better understanding the catalytic mechanism of AMSH. Our mutational and kinetic analysis reveals that recognition of the proximal ubiquitin is imperative for the linkage specificity and catalytic efficiency of the enzyme. The MIC-CAP disease mutation, Thr313Ile, yields a substantial loss of catalytic activity without any significant change in the thermodynamic stability of the protein, indicating that its perturbed catalytic activity is the basis of the disease. The catalytic activity of AMSH is stimulated upon binding to the ESCRT-0 member STAM; however, the precise mechanism and its significance are not known. On the basis of a number of biochemical and biophysical analyses, we are able to propose a model for activation according to which activation of AMSH is allowed by facile, simultaneous binding to two ubiquitin groups in a polyubiquitin substrate, one by the catalytic domain of the DUB (binding to the distal ubiquitin) and the other (the proximal ubiquitin) by the ubiquitin interacting motif (UIM) from STAM. Such a mode of binding would stabilize the ubiquitin chain in a productive orientation, resulting in an enhancement of the activity of the enzyme. These data together provide a mechanism for understanding the recruitment and activation of AMSH at ESCRT-0, providing biochemical and biophysical evidence that supports a role for AMSH when it is recruited to the initial ESCRT complex: it functions to facilitate the transfer of ubiquitinated receptors (cargo) from one ESCRT member to the next by disassembling the polyubiquitin chain while leaving some ubiquitin groups still attached to the cargo.
