Genetic interactions of the E3 ubiquitin ligase component FbxA with cyclic AMP metabolism and a histidine kinase signaling pathway during Dictyostelium discoideum development.	Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae with an altered fbxA gene, which is thought to encode a component of an SCF E3 ubiquitin ligase, have defective regulation of cell type proportionality. In chimeras with wild-type cells, the mutant amoebae form mainly spores, leaving the construction of stalks to wild-type cells. To examine the role of fbxA and regulated proteolysis, we have recovered the promoter of fbxA and shown that it is expressed in a pattern resembling that of a prestalk-specific gene until late in development, when it is also expressed in developing spore cells. Because fbxA cells are developmentally deficient in pure culture, we were able to select suppressor mutations that promote sporulation of the original mutant. One suppressor mutation resides within the gene regA, which encodes a cyclic AMP (cAMP) phosphodiesterase linked to an activating response regulator domain. In another suppressor, there has been a disruption of dhkA, a gene encoding a two-component histidine kinase known to influence Dictyostelium development. RegA appears precociously and in greater amounts in the fbxA mutant than in the wild type, but in an fbxA/dhkA double mutant, RegA is restored to wild-type levels. Because the basis of regA suppression might involve alterations in cAMP levels during development, the concentrations of cAMP in all strains were determined. The levels of cAMP are relatively constant during multicellular development in all strains except the dhkA mutant, in which it is reduced at least sixfold. The level of cAMP in the double mutant dhkA/fbxA is relatively normal. The levels of cAMP in the various mutants do not correlate with spore formation, as would be expected on the basis of our present understanding of the signaling pathway leading to the induction of spores. Altered amounts of RegA and cAMP early in the development of the mutants suggest that both fbxA and dhkA genes act earlier than previously thought.
Morphologic changes and altered gene expression in an epithelioid hemangioendothelioma during a ten-year course of disease.	Epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (EHE) is a rare low-grade malignant vascular neoplasm with unpredictable prognosis. We report on a patient suffering from a vascular neoplasm with primary manifestation in the skeleton and subsequent development of lesions of EHE in the spleen, liver and lung. Based on the assumption that involvement of visceral organs was due to metastatic spread, changes in clinical behavior, morphology, and proliferation index suggest malignant progression of the tumor. Analyzing the expression of genes known to be involved in the pathogenesis of vascular tumors, we found that the appearance of less differentiated tumor was paralleled by an accumulation of TP53 and murine double minute-2 (MDM-2) protein, decreased caveolin-1 (CAV-1) expression, and increased vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression. Mutations of the von-Hippel-Lindau-tumor-suppressor-gene (VHL) were excluded as mechanism of VEGF upregulation. Therefore, we propose that the expression of TP53, MDM-2, CAV-1 and VEGF as a marker of biologic behavior be verified in a larger case study of EHE.
Marked variation in clinical presentation and age of onset in a family with a heterozygous parkin mutation.	Parkin gene mutations have been detected in families with early-onset autosomal recessive parkinsonism. We report a novel heterozygous 40 base pair deletion in exon 3 of the parkin gene that increases the susceptibility of carriers to develop parkinsonism/dystonia and manifests remarkable variability in regard to age of onset and phenotype in a single family. After identifying the new mutation in the proband of this kindred, family members were contacted and evaluated by a movement disorders specialist using standardized protocols and prospectively set diagnostic criteria. Importantly, examining physicians and family members were blinded to the genetic testing. Five affected members in two generations carried the parkin mutation. The proband and one of his brothers had disease onset at 24 years of age while another brother had disease at age 44. One exhibited multi-focal dystonia and parkinsonism of 17 years duration, another suffered a unilateral slowly progressive parkinsonism over 13 years while the third suffered dystonia-parkinsonism of recent onset. A sibling pair in the preceding generation had mild previously undiagnosed parkinsonism. Clinicians should be aware that patients carrying a parkin gene mutation may present with dystonia-parkinsonism or very subtle parkinsonism with a markedly varied age of onset.
hCDC4b, a regulator of cyclin E, as a direct transcriptional target of p53.	To identify p53-target genes we have been using a cDNA-microarray system to assess gene expression in a p53-mutated glioblastoma cell line (U373MG) after adenovirus-mediated transfer of wild-type p53 into the p53-deficient cells. In the work reported here, expression of hCDC4b, which encodes one of the four subunits of the SCF (ubiquitin ligase) complex responsible for degradation of cyclin E, was dramatically up-regulated by infection with Ad-p53. An electrophoretic mobility-shift assay and a chromatin immunoprecipitation assay indicated that a potential p53-binding site (p53BS) present in exon 1b of the hCDC4 gene was able to bind to p53, and a reporter assay confirmed that this p53BS had p53-dependent transcriptional activity. Expression of endogenous hCDC4b, but not the alternative transcript of this gene, hCDC4a, was induced in a p53-dependent manner in response to genotoxic stresses caused by UV irradiation and adriamycin treatment, suggesting that each transcript has a different functional role. These results suggest that hCDC4b is a previously unrecognized transcriptional target of the p53 protein, and that by negatively regulating cyclin E through induction of hCDC4b, p53 might stop cell-cycle progression at G0-G1. This would represent a novel mechanism for p53-dependent control of the cell cycle, in addition to the well-known p21(WAF1) machinery.
Characterization of the human UBE3B gene: structure, expression, evolution, and alternative splicing.	E3 ubiquitin ligases target proteins for degradation by adding ubiquitin residues. We characterized full-length cDNAs for human and mouse UBE3B, a novel HECT-domain E3 ligase, and analyzed the structure of human UBE3B on chromosome 12q24.1. Alternative splicing of exon 20 of UBE3B generated two major transcripts. The 5.7-kb mRNA lacked exon 20 and encoded a full-length protein ligase, variant 1 (UBE3B_v1). A second transcript contained a 97-bp insertion encoded by exon 20 that introduced an in-frame stop codon. The predicted protein (UBE3B_v2) would lack the HECT domain and would be nonfunctional, since the HECT domain constitutes the active site for ubiquitin transfer. No alternative splicing was observed in this region of mouse UBE3B. Elimination of the HECT domain by alternative splicing has not been reported in any genes encoding HECT domain ligases and may represent a novel mechanism in regulating intracellular levels of functional HECT-domain ligases.
Forced expression of RNF36 induces cell apoptosis.	RNF36 (ring finger protein 36; alias Trif), a member of the RING zinc finger protein family, is expressed in germ cells at round spermatid stages during spermatogenesis. RING finger proteins have been implicated in a variety of functions including oncogenesis, viral replication, and developmental processes. Since no germ cell line is presently available to study the function of RNF36, in this research, we expressed RNF36 truncated and full-length proteins in COS-7 and HEK-293 cell lines to study the effect of RNF36 in somatic cells. The full-length RNF36 protein in both cell lines showed a speckled pattern in the nucleus. Truncated RNF36-1 protein with its putative nuclear localization signal (NLS) remained within the nucleus but lost the speckled pattern. The promyelocytic leukemia (PML) protein, another RING finger protein, was previously identified as present in the nucleus with a speckled pattern. Double-staining and coimmunoprecipitation analyses suggested that RNF36 colocalizes and interacts with PML. In vitro phosphorylation analysis further suggested that RNF36 nuclear localization is under the control of phosphorylation, which might be mediated by p38. Treatment with the p38 inhibitor SB203580 resulted in the cytoplasmic translocation of RNF36. Overexpression of full-length RNF36 in cells induced about half of the transfected cells to undergo cell death. The results of DNA fragmentation assays, flow cytometry assay, and TUNEL staining suggest that the death of RNF36-transfected cells was caused by apoptosis. Following further characterization of the molecular mechanism of RNF36-induced apoptosis, we found that the expression of Bax, caspase-2, and receptor-interacting protein were elevated upon RNF36 induction in test cells. These results suggest that RNF36 may interact with PML and induce cell apoptosis. We suspect that RNF36 may play a role in germ cell homeostasis during spermatogenesis.
BRCA1 : BARD1 induces the formation of conjugated ubiquitin structures, dependent on K6 of ubiquitin, in cells during DNA replication and repair.	The N-terminus of the BRCA1 protein bears a RING finger domain that functions as an E3 ubiquitin ligase in vitro where it is able to catalyse the synthesis of monoubiquitin and polyubiquitin targeted proteins. This activity is greatly increased when BRCA1 is in a complex with its N-terminal binding partner BARD1. In this report we use an immunohistochemical approach to demonstrate the association of cellular BRCA1 with the end product of the ubiquitin conjugation and ligation pathway, conjugated ubiquitin. Association is apparent at DNA replication structures in S-phase and following treatment with hydroxyurea and also at sites of double strand break repair after exposure to ionizing radiation. Down-regulation of endogenous, cellular BRCA1 : BARD1 using siRNA results in abrogation of ubiquitin conjugation in these structures, suggesting that heterodimer activity is required for their formation. Conversely, ectopically expressed full-length BRCA1, but not BRCA1 bearing specific N-terminal amino acid substitutions, is able to cooperate with BARD1 to increase ubiquitin conjugation in cells. Conjugation of ubiquitin in foci is inhibited by the expression of ubiquitin bearing a lysine 6 mutation suggesting that the ubiquitin polymers formed at these sites are dependent on lysine-6 for linkage. Together these data demonstrate that BRCA1 directed ligation of ubiquitin occurs during S-phase and in response to replication stress and DNA damage and is therefore likely to be a significant aspect of BRCA1 cellular activity.
Chasing genes in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common type of dementia, and Parkinson's disease (PD), the most common movement disorder, are both neurodegenerative adult-onset diseases characterized by the progressive loss of specific neuronal populations and the accumulation of intraneuronal inclusions. The search for genetic and environmental factors that determine the fate of neurons during the ageing process has been a widespread approach in the battle against neurodegenerative disorders. Genetic studies of AD and PD initially focused on the search for genes involved in the aetiological mechanisms of monogenic forms of these diseases. They later expanded to study hundreds of patients, affected relative-pairs and population-based studies, sometimes performed on "special" isolated populations. A growing number of genes (and pathogenic mutations) is being identified that cause or increase susceptibility to AD and PD. This review discusses the way in which strategies of "gene hunting" have evolved during the last few years and the significance of finding genes such as the presenilins, alpha- synuclein, parkin and DJ- 1. In addition, we discuss possible links between these two neurodegenerative disorders. The clinical, pathological and genetic presentation of AD and PD suggests the involvement of a few overlapping interrelated pathways. Their imbricate features point to a spectrum of neurodegeneration (tauopathies, synucleinopathies, amyloidopathies) that need further intense investigation to find the missing links.
Atrophin-1-interacting protein 4/human Itch is a ubiquitin E3 ligase for human enhancer of filamentation 1 in transforming growth factor-beta signaling pathways.	Atrophin-1-interacting protein 4 (AIP4) is the human homolog of the mouse Itch protein (hItch), an E3 ligase for Notch and JunB. Human enhancer of filamentation 1 (HEF1) has been implicated in signaling pathways such as those mediated by integrin, T cell receptor, and B cell receptor and functions as a multidomain docking protein. Recent studies suggest that HEF1 is also involved in the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling pathways, by interacting with Smad3, a key signal transducer downstream of the TGF-beta type I receptor. The interaction of Smad3 with HEF1 induces HEF1 proteasomal degradation, which was further enhanced by TGF-beta stimulation. The detailed molecular mechanisms of HEF1 degradation regulated by Smad3 were poorly understood. Here we report our studies that demonstrate the function of AIP4 as an ubiquitin E3 ligase for HEF1. AIP4 forms a complex with both Smad3 and HEF1 through its WW domains in a TGF-beta-independent manner and regulates HEF1 ubiquitination and degradation, which can be enhanced by TGF-beta stimulation. These findings reveal a new mechanism for Smad3-regulated proteasomal degradation events and also broaden the network of cross-talk between the TGF-beta signaling pathway and those involving HEF1 and AIP4.
UBE3A gene mutations in Finnish Angelman syndrome patients detected by conformation sensitive gel electrophoresis.	Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurogenetic disorder associated with a loss of maternal gene expression in chromosome region 15q11-q13 due to either maternal deletion, paternal uniparental disomy (UPD), imprinting mutation, or mutation in the UBE3A gene. UBE3A encodes an ubiquitin-protein ligase and shows brain-specific imprinting. We have done conformation sensitive gel electrophoresis (CSGE) mutation analysis of the UBE3A coding region in nine AS patients, who had shown a normal biparental inheritance and methylation pattern of the 15q11-q13. Disease-causing mutations were identified in five of them: three deletions (1930delAG, 3093delAAGA) and two missense mutations (902A --> C, 975T --> C). Both deletions have also been detected in other AS patients, suggesting these sites may be prone to deletions in the UBE3A gene. All AS cases were sporadic, but a mosaicism for mutation 902A --> C was present in a patient's mother. Screening for the UBE3A mutations in the AS patients was found useful both for the confirmation of diagnosis and genetic counseling. CSGE was found to be a sensitive and simple screening method for these mutations.
Implications of results of molecular epidemiology on DNA adducts, their repair and mutations for mechanisms of human cancer.	This review covers human data on DNA adducts, their repair and induced mutations. The new data on human studies in vivo challenge some widely held notions relating to cancer and ageing. These data collected from humans of different ages show no age-dependent change in levels of diverse DNA adducts in peripheral lymphocytes, no deterioration of global DNA excision repair in skin in situ and no change in mutation rate, because the HPRT mutant fraction increases linearly by age. These molecular epidemiological results argue against earlier animal and in-vitro data, but are in line with multistage models for cancer. A further application of DNA adducts as an intermediary tool for genotyping studies, for both metabolic enzyme and DNA repair system genotypes, is recommended. As the common polymorphisms are likely to cause at most moderate increases in the risk of cancer, the intermediary adduct end-point is a necessary proof of causal relationships. The mechanistic data on the mutational spectra induced by important human DNA adducts may be helpful in the characterization, not only of carcinogenic exposures, but also of protective factors, such as dietary ingredients. Examples are shown of the application of mutational spectra on the von Hippel Lindau (VHL) gene in kidney cancer in relation to dietary intake. Some fruit and vegetables provide protection against mutations and the effect is stronger among smokers who have both endogenous and exogenous mutagenic exposures.
pVHL modification by NEDD8 is required for fibronectin matrix assembly and suppression of tumor development.	Functional inactivation of the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor gene is the cause of the familial VHL disease and most sporadic renal clear-cell carcinomas (RCC). pVHL has been shown to play a role in the destruction of hypoxia-inducible factor alpha (HIF-alpha) subunits via ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis and in the regulation of fibronectin matrix assembly. Although most disease-causing pVHL mutations hinder the regulation of the HIF pathway, every disease-causing pVHL mutant tested to date has failed to promote the assembly of the fibronectin matrix, underscoring its potential importance in VHL disease. Here, we report that a ubiquitin-like molecule called NEDD8 covalently modifies pVHL. A nonneddylateable pVHL mutant, while retaining its ability to ubiquitylate HIF, failed to bind to and promote the assembly of the fibronectin matrix. Expression of the neddylation-defective pVHL in RCC cells, while restoring the regulation of HIF, failed to promote the differentiated morphology in a three-dimensional growth assay and was insufficient to suppress the formation of tumors in SCID mice. These results suggest that NEDD8 modification of pVHL plays an important role in fibronectin matrix assembly and that in the absence of such regulation, an intact HIF pathway is insufficient to prevent VHL-associated tumorigenesis.
The genetics of Parkinson disease]	Parkinson's disease, PD, is the second most common neurodegenerative disorder. A genetic component in Parkinson's disease was long thought to be unlikely, but recent genetic studies have identified several genes associated with the disease.
Parkin expression in the developing mouse.	Parkin is an E3 ubiquitin ligase causally involved in the pathogenesis of autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism. In this paper, we analysed the formation of alternative splice products and the spatio-temporal expression pattern of parkin during pre- and postnatal mouse development. Using RT-PCR, Northern blot, in situ hybridization, Western blot analysis, and immunohistochemistry we found (i) alternative splice forms of parkin; (ii) an early and widespread expression of parkin mRNA and protein in the CNS and several organs, already at E10/12; (iii) a marked increase in expression level during midgestational development (E15-18) in the CNS, followed by a steady increase until adulthood; (iv) an ubiquitous distribution throughout CNS ontogeny. Our results show that parkin expression is correlated with cell maturation and suggests an important physiological role of parkin in neurons that is at no time limited to the dopaminergic system.
N-myc regulates parkin expression.	Mutations in the parkin gene are common in early-onset and familial Parkinson's disease (PD), and the parkin protein interacts in the ubiquitin-proteasome system as an E3 ligase. However, the regulatory pathways that govern parkin expression are unknown. In this study, we showed that a phylogenetically conserved N-myc binding site in the bi-directional parkin promoter interacted with myc-family transcription factors in reporter assays, and N-myc bound to the parkin promoter in chromatin immunoprecipitation assays and repressed transcription activity. Parkin expression was inversely correlated with N-myc levels in the developing mouse and human brain, in human neuroblastoma cell lines with various levels of n-myc amplification, and in an inducible N-myc cell line. Although parkin and N-myc expression were dramatically altered upon retinoic acid-induced differentiation of a human neuroblastoma cell line, modulation of parkin expression did not significantly affect either rates of cellular proliferation or levels of cyclin E. Analysis of additional genes associated with familial PD revealed a shared basis of transcription regulation mediated by N-myc and the cell cycle. Our results, in combination with functional knowledge of the proteins encoded by these genes, suggest a common pathway linking together PD, the ubiquitin-proteasome system, and cell cycle control.
Olfaction differentiates parkin disease from early-onset parkinsonism and Parkinson disease.	The authors studied whether olfactory dysfunction is present in parkin disease using the University of Pennsylvania Smell Identification Test (UPSIT). The mean UPSIT score in parkin patients was 27.3 (95% CI 24.4 to 30.2). This did not differ from the normal group mean of 29.4 (95% CI 28.0 to 30.7; p = 0.22) but was higher than the Parkinson disease group (mean 14.3; 95% CI 12.2 to 19.5; p < 0.0001) and the parkin-negative group (mean 17.1; 95% CI 14.8 to 16.3; p < 0.0001) values. Parkin disease may be a distinct and separate entity from Parkinson disease.
Regulation of neuronal voltage-gated sodium channels by the ubiquitin-protein ligases Nedd4 and Nedd4-2.	Nedd4 and Nedd4-2 are ubiquitin-protein ligases known to regulate a number of membrane proteins including receptors and ion transporters. Regulation of the epithelial Na(+) channel by Nedd4 and Nedd4-2 is mediated via interactions between the PY motifs of the epithelial sodium channel subunits and the Nedd4/Nedd4-2 WW domains. This example serves as a model for the regulation of other PY motif-containing ion channels by Nedd4 and Nedd4-2. We found that the carboxyl termini of the six voltage-gated Na(+) (Na(v)) channels contain typical PY motifs (PPXY), and a further Na(v) contains a PY motif variant (LPXY). Not only did we demonstrate by Far-Western analysis that Nedd4 and Nedd4-2 interact with the PY motif-containing Na(v) channels, but we also showed that these channels have conserved WW domain binding specificity. We further showed that the carboxyl termini fusion proteins of one central nervous system and one peripheral nervous system-derived Na(+) channel (Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.7, respectively) are readily ubiquitinated by Nedd4-2. In Xenopus oocytes, Nedd4-2 strongly inhibited the activities of all three Na(v)s (Na(v)1.2, Na(v)1.7, and Na(v)1.8) tested. Interestingly, Nedd4 suppressed the activity of Na(v)1.2 and Na(v)1.7 but was a poor inhibitor of Na(v)1.8. Our results provide evidence that Nedd4 and Nedd4-2 are likely to be key regulators of specific neuronal Na(v) channels in vivo.
Transforming growth factor-beta stimulates p300-dependent RUNX3 acetylation, which inhibits ubiquitination-mediated degradation.	The Runt domain transcription factors (RUNXs) play essential roles in normal development and neoplasias. Genetic analyses of animals and humans have revealed the involvement of RUNX1 in hematopoiesis and leukemia, RUNX2 in osteogenesis and cleidocranial dysplasia, and RUNX3 in the development of T-cells and dorsal root ganglion neurons and in the genesis of gastric cancer. Here we report that RUNX3 is a target of the acetyltransferase activity of p300. The p300-dependent acetylation of three lysine residues protects RUNX3 from ubiquitin ligase Smurf-mediated degradation. The extent of the acetylation is up-regulated by the transforming growth factor-beta signaling pathway and down-regulated by histone deacetylase activities. Our findings demonstrate that the level of RUNX3 protein is controlled by the competitive acetylation and deacetylation of the three lysine residues, revealing a new mechanism for the posttranslational regulation of RUNX3 expression.
SIAH1 targets the alternative splicing factor T-STAR for degradation by the proteasome.	T-STAR is one of three members of the SAM68 family of RNA-binding proteins that have been shown to be involved in various gene expression pathways including the control of pre-mRNA splicing. We employed a two-hybrid screen to identify proteins that interact with human T-STAR. The predominant interacting proteins were the E3 ubiquitin ligases SIAH1 and SIAH2. We found that SIAH1 bound to an octapeptide sequence in T-STAR targeting it for proteasome-dependent degradation. Rodent T-STAR orthologues (also known as etoile or SLM2) were not targeted for degradation by SIAH1. However a double amino acid substitution of mouse T-STAR that mimics the human SIAH1-binding site brought mouse T-STAR under in vivo control of SIAH1. Using a minigene transfection assay for alternative splicing activity we showed that human T-STAR, like its rodent orthologues can influence splice site choice and that human, but not mouse, T-STAR-dependent alternative splicing is modulated by SIAH1. Western blots of protein from purified germ cells indicated that SIAH1 protein expression peaks in meiosis. In mouse, T-STAR is co-expressed with SIAH1 during meiosis but, in humans, T-STAR is only strongly expressed after meiosis. Comparative sequence analysis showed SIAH-mediated proteasomal degradation of T-STAR has evolved in the primate lineage. Collectively these data suggest that SIAH-mediated down regulation of alternative splicing may be an important developmental difference between otherwise highly conserved T-STAR proteins.
HIF activation by pH-dependent nucleolar sequestration of VHL.	Hypoxia and acidosis occur in a wide variety of physiological and pathological settings that include muscle stress, tumour development and ischaemic disorders. A central element in the adaptive response to cellular hypoxia is HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor), a transcription factor that activates an array of genes implicated in oxygen homeostasis, tumour vascularization and ischaemic preconditioning. HIF is activated by hypoxia, but undergoes degradation by the VHL (von Hippel-Lindau) tumour suppressor protein in the presence of oxygen. Here, we demonstrate that hypoxia induction or normoxic acidosis can neutralize the function of VHL by triggering its nucleolar sequestration, a regulatory mechanism of protein function that is observed rarely. VHL is confined to nucleoli until neutral pH conditions are reinstated. Nucleolar sequestration of VHL enables HIF to evade destruction in the presence of oxygen and activate its target genes. Our findings suggest that an increase in hydrogen ions elicits a transient and reversible loss of VHL function by promoting its nucleolar sequestration.
Regulation of the large (approximately 1000 kb) imprinted murine Ube3a antisense transcript by alternative exons upstream of Snurf/Snrpn.	Most cases of Angelman syndrome (AS) result from loss or inactivation of ubiquitin protein ligase 3A (UBE3A), a gene displaying maternal-specific expression in brain. Epigenetic silencing of the paternal UBE3A allele in brain appears to be mediated by a non-coding UBE3A antisense (UBE3A-ATS). In human, UBE3A-ATS extends approximately 450 kb to UBE3A from the small nuclear ribonucleoprotein N (SNURF/SNRPN) promoter region that contains a cis-acting imprinting center (IC). The concept of a single large antisense transcript is difficult to reconcile with the observation that SNURF/SNRPN shows a ubiquitous pattern of expression while the more distal part of UBE3A-ATS, which overlaps UBE3A, is brain specific. To address this problem, we examined murine transcripts initiating from several alternative exons dispersed within a 500 kb region upstream of Snurf/Snrpn. Similar to Ube3a-ATS, these upstream (U) exon-containing transcripts are expressed at neuronal stages of differentiation in a cell culture model of neurogenesis. These findings suggest the novel hypothesis that brain-specific transcription of Ube3a-ATS is regulated by the U exons rather than Snurf/Snrpn exon 1 as previously suggested from human studies. In support of this hypothesis, we describe U-Ube3a-ATS transcripts where U exons are spliced to Ube3a-ATS with the exclusion of Snurf-Snrpn. We also show that the murine U exons have arisen by genomic duplication of segments that include elements of the IC, suggesting that the brain specific silencing of Ube3a is due to multiple alternatively spliced IC-Ube3a-ATS transcripts.
Inactivation of c-Cbl reverses neonatal lethality and T cell developmental arrest of SLP-76-deficient mice.	c-Cbl is an adaptor protein that negatively regulates signal transduction events involved in thymic-positive selection. To further characterize the function of c-Cbl in T cell development, we analyzed the effect of c-Cbl inactivation in mice deficient in the scaffolding molecule SLP-76. SLP-76-deficient mice show a high frequency of neonatal lethality; and in surviving mice, T cell development is blocked at the DN3 stage. Inactivation of c-cbl completely reversed the neonatal lethality seen in SLP-76-deficient mice and partially reversed the T cell development arrest in these mice. SLP-76(-/-) Cbl(-/-) mice exhibited marked expansion of polarized T helper type (Th)1 and Th2 cell peripheral CD4(+) T cells, lymphoid infiltrates of parenchymal organs, and premature death. This rescue of T cell development is T cell receptor dependent because it does not occur in recombination activating gene 2(-/-) SLP-76(-/-) Cbl(-/-) triple knockout mice. Analysis of the signal transduction properties of SLP-76(-/-) Cbl(-/-) T cells reveals a novel SLP-76- and linker for activation of T cells-independent pathway of extracellular signal-regulated kinase activation, which is normally down-regulated by c-Cbl.
Resistance to CD4+CD25+ regulatory T cells and TGF-beta in Cbl-b-/- mice.	Cbl-b(-/-) mice have signaling defects that result in CD28-independent T cell activation, increased IL-2 production, hyper-reactive T cells, and increased autoimmunity. Although the increased autoimmunity in these mice is believed to result from the hyper-reactive T cells, the mechanisms leading from T cell hyper-reactivity to autoimmunity remain unclear. Specifically, the function and interaction of CD4(+)CD25(+) regulatory T cells (T(reg)) and CD4(+)CD25(-) effector T cells (T(eff)) in Cbl-b(-/-) mice have not been examined. We now report that Cbl-b(-/-) CD4(+)CD25(+) T(reg) exhibit normal regulatory function in vitro. In contrast, the in vitro response of Cbl-b(-/-) CD4(+)CD25(-) T(eff) is abnormal, in that it is not inhibited by either Cbl-b(-/-) or wild-type T(reg). This resistance of Cbl-b(-/-) T(eff) to in vitro regulation is seen at the levels of both DNA synthesis and cell division. In addition to this resistance to CD4(+)CD25(+) T(reg), Cbl-b(-/-) T(eff) demonstrate in vitro resistance to inhibition by TGF-beta. This second form of resistance in Cbl-b(-/-) T(eff) is seen despite the expression of normal levels of type II TGF-beta receptors and normal levels of phosphorylated Smad3 after TGF-beta stimulation. Coupled with recent reports of resistance to T(reg) in T(eff) exposed to LPS-treated dendritic cells, our present findings suggest that resistance to regulation may be a relevant mechanism in both normal immune function and autoimmunity.
Unraveling the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease--the contribution of monogenic forms.	The field of Parkinson's disease pathogenesis is rapidly evolving from the one of a monolithic and obscure entity into the one of a complex scenario with several known molecular players. The ongoing systematic exploration of the genome holds great promise for the identification of the genetic factors conferring susceptibility to the common non-Mendelian forms of this disease. However, most of the progress of the last 5 years has come from the successful mapping and cloning of genes responsible for rare Mendelian variants of Parkinson's disease. These discoveries are providing tremendous help in understanding the molecular mechanisms of this devastating disease. Here we review the genetics of the monogenic forms of Parkinson's disease. Moreover, we focus on the mechanisms of disease caused by alpha-synuclein and parkin mutations, and the implications of this growing body of knowledge for understanding the pathogenesis of the common forms of the disease.
Gene expression profiling of parkinsonian substantia nigra pars compacta; alterations in ubiquitin-proteasome, heat shock protein, iron and oxidative stress regulated proteins, cell adhesion/cellular matrix and vesicle trafficking genes.	Gene expression profiling of human substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) from Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, was examined employing high density microarrays. We identified alterations in the expression of 137 genes, with 68 down regulated and 69 up regulated. The down regulated genes belong to signal transduction, protein degradation (e.g. ubiquitin-proteasome subunits), dopaminergic transmission/metabolism, ion transport, protein modification/phosphorylation and energy pathways/glycolysis functional classes. Up-regulated genes, clustered mainly in biological processes involving cell adhesion/cytoskeleton, extracellular matrix components, cell cycle, protein modification/phosphorylation, protein metabolism, transcription and inflammation/stress (e.g. key iron and oxygen sensor EGLN1). One major finding in the present study is the particular decreased expression of SKP1A, a member of the SCF (E3) ligase complex specifically in the substantia nigra (SN) of sporadic parkinsonian patients, which may lead to a wide impairment in the function of an entire repertoire of proteins subjected to regulatory ubiquitination. These findings reveal novel players in the neurodegenerative scenario and provide potential targets for the development of novel drug compounds.
NEDD4-2 (neural precursor cell expressed, developmentally down-regulated 4-2) negatively regulates TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) signalling by inducing ubiquitin-mediated degradation of Smad2 and TGF-beta type I receptor.	Inhibitory Smad, Smad7, is a potent inhibitor of TGF-beta (transforming growth factor-beta) superfamily signalling. By binding to activated type I receptors, it prevents the activation of R-Smads (receptor-regulated Smads). To identify new components of the Smad pathway, we performed yeast two-hybrid screening using Smad7 as bait, and identified NEDD4-2 (neural precursor cell expressed, developmentally down-regulated 4-2) as a direct binding partner of Smad7. NEDD4-2 is structurally similar to Smurfs (Smad ubiquitin regulatory factors) 1 and 2, which were identified previously as E3 ubiquitin ligases for R-Smads and TGF-beta superfamily receptors. NEDD4-2 functions like Smurfs 1 and 2 in that it associates with TGF-beta type I receptor via Smad7, and induces its ubiquitin-dependent degradation. Moreover, NEDD4-2 bound to TGF-beta-specific R-Smads, Smads 2 and 3, in a ligand-dependent manner, and induced degradation of Smad2, but not Smad3. However, in contrast with Smurf2, NEDD4-2 failed to induce ubiquitination of SnoN (Ski-related novel protein N), although NEDD4-2 bound to SnoN via Smad2 more strongly than Smurf2. We showed further that overexpressed NEDD4-2 prevents transcriptional activity induced by TGF-beta and BMP, whereas silencing of the NEDD4-2 gene by siRNA (small interfering RNA) resulted in enhancement of the responsiveness to TGF-beta superfamily cytokines. These data suggest that NEDD4-2 is a member of the Smurf-like C2-WW-HECT (WW is Trp-Trp and HECT is homologous to the E6-accessory protein) type E3 ubiquitin ligases, which negatively regulate TGF-beta superfamily signalling through similar, but not identical, mechanisms to those used by Smurfs.
Genetic testing in Parkinson's disease.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a common neurodegenerative disorder of adulthood characterized clinically by rigidity, bradykinesia, resting tremor, and postural instability. The annual incidence of PD ranges between 16 and 19 individuals per 100,000 (Twelves et al., Mov Disord 2003;18:19-31). Historically, PD has been commonly viewed as an idiopathic or environmentally triggered condition. However, as is true with most common conditions, there have been several families reported with PD who demonstrate a classic Mendelian pattern of inheritance. To date, nine genetic loci have been reported and four pathogenic genes have been identified: alpha-synuclein, parkin, DJ1, and PINK1. Families with alterations in these genes or linked sites demonstrate either recessive or dominant inheritance patterns and may have typical and/or atypical symptoms, with an age of onset extending from the second to the sixth decade. Commercial tests for parkin and alpha-synuclein mutations are now available. We predict that physicians, particularly neurologists, increasingly will be approached for information and referrals regarding genetic testing. To assist patients and their families, physicians will not only need to know when such testing is likely to yield a meaningful result but also be aware of the possible social and emotional consequences of testing. The following is a review of what is currently known about the genetics of PD within this context. We discuss what is known about genetic testing for Huntington's disease, a well-described model for genetic testing in a neurodegenerative disorder. We explore the utility, appropriateness, and possible implications of genetic testing for diagnostic and presymptomatic purposes.
Cytoplasmic ubiquitin ligase KPC regulates proteolysis of p27(Kip1) at G1 phase.	The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27(Kip1) is degraded at the G0-G1 transition of the cell cycle by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Although the nuclear ubiquitin ligase (E3) SCF(Skp2) is implicated in p27(Kip1) degradation, proteolysis of p27(Kip1) at the G0-G1 transition proceeds normally in Skp2(-/-) cells. Moreover, p27(Kip1) is exported from the nucleus to the cytoplasm at G0-G1 (refs 9-11). These data suggest the existence of a Skp2-independent pathway for the degradation of p27(Kip1) at G1 phase. We now describe a previously unidentified E3 complex: KPC (Kip1 ubiquitination-promoting complex), consisting of KPC1 and KPC2. KPC1 contains a RING-finger domain, and KPC2 contains a ubiquitin-like domain and two ubiquitin-associated domains. KPC interacts with and ubiquitinates p27(Kip1) and is localized to the cytoplasm. Overexpression of KPC promoted the degradation of p27(Kip1), whereas a dominant-negative mutant of KPC1 delayed p27(Kip1) degradation. The nuclear export of p27(Kip1) by CRM1 seems to be necessary for KPC-mediated proteolysis. Depletion of KPC1 by RNA interference also inhibited p27(Kip1) degradation. KPC thus probably controls degradation of p27(Kip1) in G1 phase after export of the latter from the nucleus.
Ligand-dependent switching of ubiquitin-proteasome pathways for estrogen receptor.	Recent evidence indicates that the transactivation of estrogen receptor alpha (ERalpha) requires estrogen-dependent receptor ubiquitination and degradation. Here we show that estrogen-unbound (unliganded) ERalpha is also ubiquitinated and degraded through a ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. To investigate this ubiquitin-proteasome pathway, we purified the ubiquitin ligase complex for unliganded ERalpha and identified a protein complex containing the carboxyl terminus of Hsc70-interacting protein (CHIP). CHIP preferentially bound to misfolded ERalpha and ubiquitinated it to induce degradation. Ligand binding to the receptor induced the dissociation of CHIP from ERalpha. In CHIP-/- cells, the degradation of unliganded ERalpha was abrogated; however, estrogen-induced degradation was observed to the same extent as in CHIP+/+ cells. Our findings suggest that ERalpha is regulated by two independent ubiquitin-proteasome pathways, which are switched by ligand binding to ERalpha. One pathway is necessary for the transactivation of the receptor and the other is involved in the quality control of the receptor.
Mutation of von Hippel-Lindau gene and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor in sporadic clear cell renal cell carcinoma and their relationships to angiogenesis]	To evaluate the relationship between the mutation of the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) gene and expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in sporadic clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CCRCC) and angiogenesis.
Keap1 is a redox-regulated substrate adaptor protein for a Cul3-dependent ubiquitin ligase complex.	The bZIP transcription factor Nrf2 controls a genetic program that protects cells from oxidative damage and maintains cellular redox homeostasis. Keap1, a BTB-Kelch protein, is the major upstream regulator of Nrf2 and controls both the subcellular localization and steady-state levels of Nrf2. In this report, we demonstrate that Keap1 functions as a substrate adaptor protein for a Cul3-dependent E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Keap1 assembles into a functional E3 ubiquitin ligase complex with Cul3 and Rbx1 that targets multiple lysine residues located in the N-terminal Neh2 domain of Nrf2 for ubiquitin conjugation both in vivo and in vitro. Keap1-dependent ubiquitination of Nrf2 is inhibited following exposure of cells to quinone-induced oxidative stress and sulforaphane, a cancer-preventive isothiocyanate. A mutant Keap1 protein containing a single cysteine-to-serine substitution at residue 151 within the BTB domain of Keap1 is markedly resistant to inhibition by either quinone-induced oxidative stress or sulforaphane. Inhibition of Keap1-dependent ubiquitination of Nrf2 correlates with decreased association of Keap1 with Cul3. Neither quinone-induced oxidative stress nor sulforaphane disrupts association between Keap1 and Nrf2. Our results suggest that the ability of Keap1 to assemble into a functional E3 ubiquitin ligase complex is the critical determinant that controls steady-state levels of Nrf2 in response to cancer-preventive compounds and oxidative stress.
Von Hippel-Lindau disease.	Germline mutations in the VHL tumour suppressor gene may cause a variety of phenotypes including von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease, familial phaeochromocytoma and inherited polycythaemia. VHL disease is a multisystem familial cancer syndrome and is the commonest cause of familial renal cell carcinoma (RCC). VHL disease provides a paradigm for illustrating how studies of a rare familial cancer syndrome can produce advances in clinical medicin and important insights into basic biological processes. Thus the identification of the VHL gene has improved the diagnosis and clinical management of VHL disease and provided insights into the pathogenesis of sporadic clear cell RCC. Functional investigations of the VHL gene product have provided novel information on how cells sense oxygen and the role of hypoxia-response pathways in human tumourigenesis. Such information offers prospects of novel therapeutic interventions for VHL disease and common cancers including RCC.
Familial non-syndromic clear cell renal cell carcinoma.	The diagnosis of familial non-syndromic clear cell renal cell carcinoma is one of exclusion. In families presenting with clear cell RCC a germline VHL mutation and a constitutional translocation of chromosome 3 must be excluded before familial non-syndromic clear cell RCC can be diagnosed. Large familial non-syndromic clear cell RCC kindreds are uncommon and a predisposing gene has not been identified. However inheritance is autosomal dominant in most cases and age at onset is earlier than in sporadic cases. Recognition and appropriate screening of familial non-syndromic clear cell RCC cases will reduce morbidity and mortality. Large scale collaborative linkage studies may provide a basis for the identification of familial non-syndromic clear cell RCC susceptibility gene(s).
FIGC, a novel FGF-induced ubiquitin-protein ligase in gastric cancers.	We have previously shown that fibroblast growth factor receptor 2 (FGFR2) plays an important role in gastric carcinogenesis. In this study, we have used a differential display approach to identify basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF)-inducible genes in gastric cancer cells. Here, we report that one of these genes is predicted to encode a RING finger protein, designated FIGC. The FIGC gene was found to encode a polypeptide of 381 amino acids with a novel RING finger module at the NH2-terminus and the COOH-terminal proline-rich region. Using an in vitro ubiquitination assay with recombinant protein, we demonstrate that FIGC has intrinsic E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and promotes ubiquitination. Our data indicate that FIGC upregulation in response to bFGF in gastric cancer might be implicated in carcinogenesis through dysregulation of growth modulator.
The ubiquitin ligase XBAT32 regulates lateral root development in Arabidopsis.	Ubiquitin-mediated protein modification plays a key role in many cellular signal transduction pathways. The Arabidopsis gene XBAT32 encodes a protein containing an ankyrin repeat domain at the N-terminal half and a RING finger motif. The XBAT32 protein is capable of ubiquitinating itself. Mutation in XBAT32 causes a number of phenotypes including severe defects in lateral root production and in the expression of the cell division marker CYCB1;1::GUS. The XBAT32 gene is expressed abundantly in the vascular system of the primary root, but not in newly formed lateral root primordia. Treatment with auxin increases the expression of XBAT32 in the primary root and partially rescues the lateral root defect in xbat32-1 mutant plants. Thus, XBAT32 is a novel ubiquitin ligase required for lateral root initiation.
Multiple activities contribute to Pc2 E3 function.	Pc2 is a polycomb protein, which has SUMO E3 activity for the corepressors CtBP and CtBP2. Here we demonstrate that, in vivo, Pc2 adapter function contributes to enhancement of CtBP sumoylation. Mutation of the CtBP binding site on Pc2 abolishes E3 activity toward CtBP. However, a carboxyl-terminal fragment of Pc2 that recruits both Ubc9 and CtBP lacks E3 activity. We identify a second domain, which, when coexpressed with the carboxyl-terminal adapter region, restores E3 function. In vitro, this domain has E3 activity in isolation, suggesting that it is a functional domain, and that adapter function is required to selectively corecruit E2 and substrate in vivo. These results demonstrate the presence of two domains in Pc2 that contribute to full in vivo E3 activity, and suggest that SUMO E3s are more than simple platforms to which E2 and substrate bind.
A new role for the von Hippel-Lindau tumor suppressor protein: stimulation of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation complex biogenesis.	Although mitochondrial deficiency in cancer has been described by Warburg, many years ago, the mechanisms underlying this impairment remain essentially unknown. Many types of cancer cells are concerned and, in particular, clear cell renal carcinoma (CCRC). In this cancer, the tumor suppressor gene, VHL (von Hippel-Lindau factor) is invalidated. Previous studies have shown that the transfection of the VHL gene in VHL-deficient cells originating from CCRCs could suppress their ability to form tumors when they were injected into nude mice. However, various additional genetic alterations are observed in such cancer cells. In order to investigate whether VHL invalidation was related to the mitochondrial impairment, we have studied the effects of wild-type VHL transfection into VHL-deficient 786-0 or RCC10 cells on their oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) subunit contents and functions. We show that the presence of wild-type VHL protein (pVHL) increased mitochondrial DNA and respiratory chain protein contents and permitted the cells to rely on their mitochondrial ATP production to grow in the absence of glucose. In parallel to mtDNA increase, the presence of pVHL up regulated the mitochondrial transcription factor A, as shown by western blot analysis. In conclusion, in CCRCs, pVHL deficiency is one of the factors responsible for down-regulation of the biogenesis of OXPHOS complexes.
Rapid detection of VHL exon deletions using real-time quantitative PCR.	Various types of mutations exist that exert an effect on the normal function of a gene. Among these, exon/gene deletions often remain unnoticed in initial mutation screening. Until recently, no fast and efficient methods were available to detect this type of mutation. Molecular detection methods for gene copy number changes included Southern blot (SB) and fluorescence in situ hybridisation, both with their own intrinsic limitations. In this paper, we report the development and application of a fast, sensitive and high-resolution method for the detection of single exon or larger deletions in the VHL gene based on real-time quantitative PCR (Q-PCR). These deletions account for approximately one-fifth of all patients with the von Hippel-Lindau syndrome, a dominantly inherited highly penetrant familial cancer syndrome predisposing to specific malignancies including phaeochromocytomas and haemangioblastomas. Our VHL exon quantification strategy is based on SYBR Green I detection and normalisation using two reference genes with a normal copy number, that is, ZNF80 (3q13.31) and GPR15 (3q12.1). Choice of primer sequences and the use of two reference genes appears to be critical for accurate discrimination between 1 and 2 exon copies. In a blind Q-PCR study of 29 samples, all 14 deletions were detected, which is in perfect agreement with previously determined SB results. We propose Q-PCR as the method of choice for fast (within 3.5 h), accurate and sensitive (ng amount of input DNA) exon deletion screening in routine DNA diagnosis of VHL disease. Similar assays can be designed for deletion screening in other genetic disorders.
VHL expression in renal cell carcinoma sensitizes to bortezomib (PS-341) through an NF-kappaB-dependent mechanism.	In renal cell carcinomas (RCC), NF-kappaB blockade is required for maximal bortezomib-induced apoptosis, and expression of the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor protein downregulates NF-kappaB. Thus, we hypothesized that expression of wild-type (wt) VHL sensitizes RCC cells to bortezomib by reducing constitutive NF-kappaB activity. Using isogenic paired cell lines with and without expression of wtVHL, we have confirmed that VHL expression reduces constitutive NF-kappaB activity. Moreover, VHL expression confers markedly heightened sensitivity to the growth inhibitory effects of bortezomib in vitro. The bortezomib IC50 values were greater than two logs lower in the VHL-expressing cell lines compared to the VHL-deficient counterparts. By manipulating the level of constitutive NF-kappaB activity in an isogenic pair of RCC cell lines independently of VHL expression, we were able to demonstrate that the VHL sensitization effect is due to downregulation of NF-kappaB activity. These findings offer the enticing possibility of using VHL status as a molecular marker to identify RCC patients who may be sensitive to bortezomib. In particular, RCC patients who have non-clear-cell histologies as well as approximately 25% of clear-cell RCCs manifest expression of wtVHL and represent a subpopulation of patients that is apt to respond to bortezomib.
HECT ubiquitin ligases link viral and cellular PPXY motifs to the vacuolar protein-sorting pathway.	Many enveloped viruses exploit the class E vacuolar protein-sorting (VPS) pathway to bud from cells, and use peptide motifs to recruit specific class E VPS factors. Homologous to E6AP COOH terminus (HECT) ubiquitin ligases have been implicated as cofactors for PPXY motif-dependent budding, but precisely which members of this family are responsible, and how they access the VPS pathway is unclear. Here, we show that PPXY-dependent viral budding is unusually sensitive to inhibitory fragments derived from specific HECT ubiquitin ligases, namely WWP1 and WWP2. We also show that WWP1, WWP2, or Itch ubiquitin ligase recruitment promotes PPXY-dependent virion release, and that this function requires that the HECT ubiquitin ligase domain be catalytically active. Finally, we show that several mammalian HECT ubiquitin ligases, including WWP1, WWP2, and Itch are recruited to class E compartments induced by dominant negative forms of the class E VPS ATPase, VPS4. These data indicate that specific HECT ubiquitin ligases can link PPXY motifs to the VPS pathway to induce viral budding.
Ubiquitin-proteasome system and Parkinson's diseases.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by nigrostriatal dopaminergic degeneration and development of cytoplasmic inclusions known as Lewy bodies. To date, the mechanisms involved in PD pathogenesis are not clearly understood. Clues from genetic studies including identification of mutations in genes for alpha-synuclein, parkin, and ubiquitin carboxy hydrolase L1 associated with familial PD and the presence of proteinaceous cytoplasmic inclusions in spared dopaminergic nigral neurons in sporadic cases of PD have suggested an important role for ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and aberrant protein degradation. In vivo and in vitro studies have linked parkin, alpha-synuclein, and oxidative stress to a compromised UPS and PD pathogenesis suggesting novel therapeutic targets.
Parkin mutations and early-onset parkinsonism in a Taiwanese cohort.	Loss of function of the parkin gene (PRKN) is the predominant genetic cause of juvenile and early-onset parkinsonism in Japan, Europe, and the United States.
Dopaminergic dysfunction in unrelated, asymptomatic carriers of a single parkin mutation.	Parkin disease is usually autosomal recessive; however, two studies have shown that asymptomatic heterozygotes have nigrostriatal dysfunction and even manifest subtle extrapyramidal signs. The authors used 18F-dopa PET to study 13 asymptomatic parkin heterozygotes and found a significant reduction of (18)F-dopa uptake in caudate, putamen, ventral, and dorsal midbrain compared with control subjects. Four had subtle extrapyramidal signs. Parkin heterozygosity is a risk factor for nigrostriatal dysfunction and in some may contribute to late-onset Parkinson disease.
Succinate links TCA cycle dysfunction to oncogenesis by inhibiting HIF-alpha prolyl hydroxylase.	Several mitochondrial proteins are tumor suppressors. These include succinate dehydrogenase (SDH) and fumarate hydratase, both enzymes of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle. However, to date, the mechanisms by which defects in the TCA cycle contribute to tumor formation have not been elucidated. Here we describe a mitochondrion-to-cytosol signaling pathway that links mitochondrial dysfunction to oncogenic events: succinate, which accumulates as a result of SDH inhibition, inhibits HIF-alpha prolyl hydroxylases in the cytosol, leading to stabilization and activation of HIF-1alpha. These results suggest a mechanistic link between SDH mutations and HIF-1alpha induction, providing an explanation for the highly vascular tumors that develop in the absence of VHL mutations.
Genetic dissection of immunity in leprosy.	Leprosy is a chronic infectious disease caused by Mycobacterium leprae that affects an estimated 700,000 new individuals each year. A strong contribution of host genetics to susceptibility to leprosy has long been suggested to account for the considerable variability observed between individuals exposed to M. leprae. As there is no relevant animal model for human leprosy, forward genetics is the main strategy used to identify the genes and, consequently, the immunological pathways involved in protective immunity to M. leprae. With respect to genome-wide screens, a major breakthrough has been reported this year; variants in the regulatory region shared by PARK2 and PACRG have been identified as being common risk factors for leprosy.
Unaltered alpha-synuclein blood levels in juvenile Parkinsonism with a parkin exon 4 deletion.	We recently reported here that SNCA triplication results in a doubling in the amount of alpha-synuclein protein in blood from cases with hereditary Lewy body disease. This observation shows that alpha-synuclein levels in blood accurately reflect gene dosage, which we assume drives pathogenesis in these individuals. A previous report has suggested that parkin can affect alpha-synuclein metabolism in human brain. Here we have tested whether there is also an increase of alpha-synuclein in autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinsonism (ARJP). We find there is not and discuss this result in terms of the putative relationships between alpha-synuclein and parkin.
Neurological aspects of the Angelman syndrome.	Angelman syndrome (AS) has emerged as an important neurogenetic syndrome due to its relatively high prevalence and easier confirmation of the diagnosis by improved genetic testing. In infancy, nonspecific clinical features of AS pose diagnostic challenges to the neurologist and these include any combination of microcephaly, seizure disorder, global developmental delay or an ataxic/hypotonic cerebral palsy-like picture. In later childhood, however, absent speech, excessively happy behavior, ataxia and jerky movements usually present as a recognizable clinical syndrome. Brain MRI shows nonspecific or normal findings but occasionally the characteristic EEG patterns alone can lead to the correct diagnosis. The physical, clinical and behavioral aspects appear to be attributable to localized CNS dysfunction of the ubiquitin ligase gene, UBE3A, located at 15q11.2. In certain brain regions, UBE3A normally has mono-allelic expression from the maternally derived chromosome 15. Several distinct genetic mechanisms can inactivate or disrupt the maternally derived UBE3A: chromosome microdeletions, paternal uniparental disomy, imprinting defects and intragenic UBE3A mutations. Those with the deletion type of AS are the most prevalent (about 70% of cases) and appear to have a more severe clinical phenotype. The unique epileptic patterns and distinct behavioral features may be related to multiple actions of UBE3A, possibly occurring during, as well as after, the time of neuronal development.
The ubiquitin-protein ligase Itch regulates p73 stability.	p73, a member of the p53 family of transcription factors, is upregulated in response to DNA damage, inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Besides indications that this p73 response is post-transcriptional, little is known about the underlying molecular mechanisms of p73 protein degradation. Ubiquitination and proteasomal-dependent degradation of p53 are regulated by its transcriptional target MDM2. However, unlike p53, p73 binds to, but is not degraded by, MDM2. Here we describe the binding of p73 to Itch, a Hect ubiquitin-protein ligase. Itch selectively binds and ubiquitinates p73 but not p53; this results in the rapid proteasome-dependent degradation of p73. Upon DNA damage Itch itself is downregulated, allowing p73 protein levels to rise and thus interfere with p73 function. In conclusion, we have identified a key mechanism in the control of p73 protein levels both in normal as well as in stress conditions.
Genetic and genomic studies of Drosophila parkin mutants implicate oxidative stress and innate immune responses in pathogenesis.	Loss-of-function mutations of the parkin gene, which encodes a ubiquitin-protein ligase, are a common cause of autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism (ARJP). Previous work has led to the identification of a number of Parkin substrates that implicate specific pathways in ARJP pathogenesis, including endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and cell cycle activation. To test the involvement of previously implicated pathways, as well as to identify novel pathways in ARJP pathogenesis, we are using genetic and genomic approaches to study Parkin function in the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. In previous work, we demonstrated that Drosophila parkin null mutants exhibit mitochondrial pathology and flight muscle degeneration. To further explore the mechanisms responsible for pathology in parkin mutants, we analyzed the transcriptional alterations that occur during muscle degeneration and performed a genetic screen for parkin modifiers. Results of these studies indicate that oxidative stress response components are induced in parkin mutants and that loss-of-function mutations in oxidative stress components enhance the parkin mutant phenotypes. Genes involved in the innate immune response are also induced in parkin mutants. In contrast, our studies did not reveal evidence for cell cycle or ER stress pathway induction in parkin mutants. These results suggest that oxidative stress and/or inflammation may play a fundamental role in the etiology of ARJP.
Pheochromocytoma and functional paraganglioma syndrome: no longer the 10% tumor.	Pheochromocytomas and abdominal paragangliomas are catecholamine-producing tumors of the sympathetic nervous system, while head and neck paragangliomas are non-secreting tumors of parasympathetic origin. Recent developments in clinical and molecular research on these tumor forms have significantly clarified their genetic backgrounds and challenged the view of "pheochromocytoma as the 10% rule tumor." Firstly, a larger proportion of these tumors are today discovered in normotensive patients during imaging carried out for other reasons than suspicion of pheochromocytoma. Secondly, although the differential diagnosis between malignant and benign tumors remains a challenge, the risk of malignancy well exceeds the classical 10% in patients with extra-adrenal disease, and/or carriers of germ-line SDHB mutations. Finally, up to a third of patients carry a germ-line mutation in a gene predisposing to pheochromocytoma and/or paraganglioma. Identification of a constitutional mutation in RET, VHL, SDHD, or SDHB has implications for clinical screening and follow-up for both the patient and for relatives at risk who can be identified by screening for the same mutation. Genetic testing in apparently sporadic cases is therefore regarded as beneficial, especially in patients diagnosed before 50 years of age, and in patients with bilateral, multifocal, malignant and/or extra-adrenal disease.
Parkin mutation dosage and the phenomenon of anticipation: a molecular genetic study of familial parkinsonism.	parkin mutations are a common cause of parkinsonism. Possessing two parkin mutations leads to early-onset parkinsonism, while having one mutation may predispose to late-onset disease. This dosage pattern suggests that some parkin families should exhibit intergenerational variation in age at onset resembling anticipation. A subset of familial PD exhibits anticipation, the cause of which is unknown. The aim of this study was to determine if anticipation was due to parkin mutation dosage.
High frequency stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus is efficacious in Parkin disease.	High frequency stimulation (HFS) of the subthalamic nucleus (STN) is an efficacious symptomatic treatment for Parkinson's disease. We have analysed the genetic status of a series of consecutive parkinsonian patients implanted for STN HFS and compared the outcome of five carrying mutations in the parkin gene with that of the non-parkin group. All patients obtained sustained control of PD symptoms and achieved functional improvement; in the parkin group the UPDRS motor score improved by 56.4%, the levodopa equivalent daily dosage was reduced by 75.5%. Postoperative medications were reduced more in parkin than in non-parkin patients. We confirm that the current inclusion criteria for STN HFS do not exclude patients carrying mutations in the parkin gene; their clinical outcome is comparable to that of the non-parkin group.
HFR1 is targeted by COP1 E3 ligase for post-translational proteolysis during phytochrome A signaling.	Upon activation by far-red light, phytochrome A signals are transduced through several pathways to promote photomorphogenesis. The COP1 E3 ligase represses photomorphogenesis in part by targeting transcription activators such as LAF1 and HY5 for destruction. Another positive regulator of photomorphogenesis is HFR1, a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor. Here, we show that HFR1 colocalizes with COP1 in nuclear bodies, and that the HFR1 N-terminal region (amino acids 1-131) interacts with the COP1 WD40 domain. HFR1(DeltaN), an HFR1 mutant lacking the two N-terminal, COP1-interacting motifs, still localizes in nuclear bodies and retains weak affinity for COP1. Both HFR1 and HFR1(DeltaN) can be ubiquitinated by COP1, although with different efficiencies. Expression of 35S-HFR1(DeltaN) in wild-type plants confers greater hypersensitivity to FR than 35S-HFR1 expression, and only seedlings expressing 35S-HFR1(DeltaN) display constitutive photomorphogenesis. These phenotypic differences can be attributed to the instability of HFR1 compared with HFR1(DeltaN). In transgenic plants, HFR1 levels are significantly elevated upon induced expression of a dominant-negative COP1 mutant that interferes with endogenous COP1 E3 activity. Moreover, induced expression of wild-type COP1 in transgenic plants accelerates post-translational degradation of HFR1 under FR light. Taken together, our results show that HFR1 is ubiquitinated by COP1 E3 ligase and marked for post-translational degradation during photomorphogenesis.
Clear cell type of renal cell carcinoma with numerous hyaline globules: a diagnostic pitfall.	A unique and never-before-published example of clear cell renal cell carcinoma (CRCC) found among 9000 primary renal cell tumors is presented. The tumor contained such a dense concentration of glassy hyaline globules (GHG) in the cytoplasm of the neoplastic cells that it overshadowed the morphology of the neoplasm. The resulting appearance of the tumor was quite misleading and different from the conventional CRCC. The GHG were 7-30 microm in diameter. They were glassy and pale to slightly eosinophilic in color in hematoxylin-eosin. The GHG stained positively with periodic acid-Schiff and negatively with silver and Hale's colloidal iron. Immunohistochemically, they were also negative for anti Mycobacterium bovis antigen. At the ultrastructural level, the GHG were formed by an amorphous mass of stellate shape. The GHG were localized within rough endoplasmic reticulum. Molecular genetically, mutation of the distal part of exon 3 of the VHL gene causing elongation of the VHL protein was found in the tumor, thus confirming the diagnosis of CRCC.
CHIP controls the sensitivity of transforming growth factor-beta signaling by modulating the basal level of Smad3 through ubiquitin-mediated degradation.	Transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) signaling is critical in a variety of biological processes such as cell proliferation, differentiation, and apoptosis. TGF-beta signaling is mediated by a group of proteins including TGF-beta receptors and Smads. It is known that different cells can exhibit different sensitivities to TGF-beta. Several molecular mechanisms, such as the differential expression of the receptor levels, have been suggested as contributing to these differences. Here, we report evidence for a novel mechanism of regulating TGF-beta sensitivity that depends on the role of CHIP (carboxyl terminus of Hsc70-interacting protein) in regulating the basal level of Smad3 via the ubiquitin-dependent degradation pathway. First, using a luciferase assay we found that overexpression of CHIP inhibited TGF-beta signaling, whereas silencing CHIP expression by small interfering RNAs led to increased TGF-beta signaling sensitivity. Second, based on the results of cell proliferation assays and JunB expression, we found that TGF-beta signaling could be abolished by stably overexpressing CHIP. Third, in those cell lines with stably expressed CHIP, we observed that the Smad3 protein level was dramatically decreased. Finally, we demonstrated that CHIP served as a U-box dependent E3 ligase that can directly mediate ubiquitination and degradation of Smad3 and that this action of CHIP was independent of TGF-beta signaling. Taken together, these findings suggest that CHIP can modulate the sensitivity of the TGF-beta signaling by controlling the basal level of Smad3 through ubiquitin-mediated degradation.
BARD1 induces apoptosis by catalysing phosphorylation of p53 by DNA-damage response kinase.	The BRCA1-associated RING domain protein BARD1 acts with BRCA1 in double-strand break repair and ubiquitination. BARD1 plays a role as mediator of apoptosis by binding to and stabilizing p53, and BARD1-repressed cells are resistant to apoptosis. We therefore investigated the mechanism by which BARD1 induces p53 stability and apoptosis. The apoptotic activity of p53 is regulated by phosphorylation. We demonstrate that BARD1 binds to unphosphorylated and serine-15 phosphorylated forms of p53 in several cell types and that the region required for binding comprises the region sufficient for apoptosis induction. In addition, BARD1 binds to Ku-70, the regulatory subunit of DNA-PK, suggesting that the mechanism of p53-induced apoptosis requires BARD1 for the phosphorylation of p53. Upregulation of BARD1 alone is sufficient for stabilization of p53 and phosphorylation on serine-15, as shown in nonmalignant epithelial cells and ovarian cancer cells, NuTu-19, which are defective in apoptosis induction and express aberrant splice variants of BARD1. Stabilization and phosphorylation of p53 in NuTu-19 cells, as well as apoptosis, can be induced by the exogenous expression of wild-type BARD1, suggesting that BARD1, by binding to the kinase and its substrate, catalyses p53 phosphorylation.
Mind bomb-2 is an E3 ligase for Notch ligand.	The zebrafish gene, mind bomb (mib), encodes a protein that positively regulates of the Delta-mediated Notch signaling. It interacts with the intracellular domain of Delta to promote its ubiquitination and endocytosis. In our search for the mouse homologue of zebrafish mind bomb, we cloned two homologues in the mouse genome: a mouse orthologue (mouse mib1) and a paralogue, named mind bomb-2 (mib2), which is evolutionarily conserved from Drosophila to human. Both Mib1 and Mib2 have an E3 ubiquitin ligase activity in their C-terminal RING domain and interact with Xenopus Delta (XD) via their N-terminal region. Mib2 is also able to ligate ubiquitin to XD and shift the membrane localization of Delta to intracellular vesicles. Importantly, Mib2 rescues both the neuronal and vascular defects in the zebrafish mib(ta52b) mutants. In contrast to the functional similarities between Mib1 and Mib2, mib2 is highly expressed in adult tissues, but almost not at all in embryos, whereas mib1 is abundantly expressed in both embryos and adult tissues. These data suggest that Mib2 has functional similarities to Mib1, but might have distinct roles in Notch signaling as an E3 ubiquitin ligase.
SCFGrr1-mediated ubiquitination of Gis4 modulates glucose response in yeast.	The F box protein Grr1 is the substrate specificity-determinant of the SCF(Grr1) E3 ubiquitin ligase complex. Genetic analyses of Grr1 mutants have implicated Grr1 in glucose repression, specifically with regard to expression of the SUC2 transcript. To better understand Grr1, we screened for substrates using a mutant version of Grr1 that should not associate with the SCF complex. We identified Gis4 as a novel Grr1 substrate. Gis4 was originally isolated as a multi-copy suppressor of a Gal--phenotype in the triple mutant snf1 mig1 srb8. Here, we show that Gis4 binds Grr1 in vivo and that Grr1 protein levels positively affect the protein levels of Gis4. The Gis4 protein is stable in wild-type cells and in grr1Delta cells; however, Gis4 is ubiquitinated in a Grr1-dependent manner. Furthermore, we show that Gis4 interacts with Snf1 in a Grr1-dependent fashion, and that Gis4 is involved in de-repression of SUC2 and in transcription of other Snf1-dependent transcripts. Gis4 appears to connect the glucose repression and de-repression pathways. We suggest that Gis4 may explain the glucose repression defects in carbon source metabolism for the grr1 mutants.
Strategies for preimplantation genetic diagnosis of Angelman syndrome caused by mutations in the UBE3A gene.	Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder associated with the loss of maternal gene expression in chromosome region 15q11-q13. AS is caused by a wide variety of genetic mechanisms, including mutations in the UBE3A gene that have been identified in 10-15% of patients; when the mother is heterozygous for the causative mutation, the risk of recurrence in subsequent pregnancies is 50%. The present authors have developed a preimplantation genetic diagnosis (PGD) assay for a family displaying a 10 bp deletion in exon 9 of the UBE3A gene, which was shared by two affected children and their phenotypically normal mother. A duplex polymerase chain reaction protocol was established, allowing the efficient amplification of the mutation together with an informative microsatellite marker (D15S122) located in intron 1 of the UBE3A gene. As most of UBE3A mutations identified so far are unique to one family, the present authors have also developed an indirect single cell protocol based upon the co-amplification of two microsatellite markers located within (D15S122) and close to the UBE3A gene (D15S1506). This strategy may be applied to all informative families requesting PGD for Angelman syndrome associated with mutations in the UBE3A gene.
Molecular analysis as a tool in the differential diagnosis of VHL disease-related tumors.	Von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is an autosomal dominant tumor syndrome, in which hemangioblastomas (HBs), clear cell renal cell carcinomas (RCCs), and pheochromocytomas are the most frequently encountered tumors. The differential diagnosis of dedifferentiated tumors in general can be difficult, as standard histologic and immunohistochemical investigations do not always allow a definitive diagnosis. We used molecular genetic analysis to resolve the differential diagnosis of sarcomatoid RCC versus pheochromocytoma of a (peri)renal tumor in a VHL patient. Germline mutation analysis identified the C407T mutation, which has been related to a VHL phenotype in which pheochromocytomas are rare. Chromosomal imbalances detected in the tumor by CGH showed a pattern typical for RCCs and not for pheochromocytomas. CGH analysis of the multiple tumors of this VHL patient revealed a comparable karyotype in the metastatic tumors and the (peri)renal tumor. Concordantly, although the germline mutation was detected in all analyzed tumors, LOH 3p was only detected in the (peri)renal mass and most metastases. Overall, based on all genetic data, this tumor corroborated a diagnosis of metastatic sarcomatoid RCC. In line with these observations is the immunopositivity for the RCC-specific RC38 detected in the (peri)renal mass and the metastases that was not detected in pheochromocytomas. The RCC specific marker G250 was uninformative as it stains positive in all types of VHL tumors. This case report illustrates the promising role of genetic analysis in the differential diagnosis of histologically dedifferentiated tumors.
Association between family history of dementia and hallucinations in Parkinson disease.	To identify familial risk factors for hallucinations in patients with Parkinson disease (PD).
Distinct roles for Mind bomb, Neuralized and Epsin in mediating DSL endocytosis and signaling in Drosophila.	Ligands of the Delta/Serrate/Lag2 (DSL) family must normally be endocytosed in signal-sending cells to activate Notch in signal-receiving cells. DSL internalization and signaling are promoted in zebrafish and Drosophila, respectively, by the ubiquitin ligases Mind bomb (Mib) and Neuralized (Neur). DSL signaling activity also depends on Epsin, a conserved endocytic adaptor thought to target mono-ubiquitinated membrane proteins for internalization. Here, we present evidence that the Drosophila ortholog of Mib (Dmib) is required for ubiquitination and signaling activity of DSL ligands in cells that normally do not express Neur, and can be functionally replaced by ectopically expressed Neur. Furthermore, we show that both Dmib and Epsin are required in these cells for some of the endocytic events that internalize DSL ligands, and that the two Drosophila DSL ligands Delta and Serrate differ in their utilization of these Dmib- and Epsin-dependent pathways: most Serrate is endocytosed via the actions of Dmib and Epsin, whereas most Delta enters by other pathways. Nevertheless, only those Serrate and Delta proteins that are internalized via the action of Dmib and Epsin can signal. These results support and extend our previous proposal that mono-ubiquitination of DSL ligands allows them to gain access to a select, Epsin-dependent, endocytic pathway that they must normally enter to activate Notch.
Topotecan blocks hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha and vascular endothelial growth factor expression induced by insulin-like growth factor-I in neuroblastoma cells.	The extent of angiogenesis and/or vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) expression in neuroblastoma tumors correlates with metastases, N-myc amplification, and poor clinical outcome. Understanding the mechanisms regulating VEGF expression in neuroblastoma cells provides additional therapeutic options to control neuroblastoma tumor growth. VEGF mRNA is controlled by growth factors and hypoxia via the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1alpha). HIF-1alpha protein levels are regulated by the von Hippel Lindau tumor suppressor gene, VHL, which targets HIF-1alpha degradation. To determine whether the levels of VEGF in neuroblastomas are due to mutations in VHL, we evaluated genomic DNA from 15 neuroblastoma cell lines using PCR. We found no mutations in exons 1, 2, or 3 of the VHL gene. VEGF mRNA levels in neuroblastoma cells cultured in serum-free medium increased after 8 to 16 hours in serum, insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I), epidermal growth factor, or platelet-derived growth factor. Serum/IGF-I induced increases in HIF-1alpha protein that temporally paralleled increases in VEGF mRNA, whereas HIF-1beta levels were unaffected. VEGF and HIF-1alpha levels were blocked by inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and mammalian target of rapamycin. Furthermore, we confirmed that HIF-1alpha mediates approximately 40% of the growth factor activity stimulating VEGF protein expression. Topotecan blocked the IGF-I-stimulated increase in HIF-1alpha but not HIF-1beta, and this resulted in a decrease in VEGF in four neuroblastoma cell lines tested. These data indicate that growth factors in an autocrine or paracrine manner play a major role in regulating VEGF levels in neuroblastoma cells and that targeted therapies to phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, mammalian target of rapamycin, and/or HIF-1alpha have the potential to inhibit VEGF expression and limit neuroblastoma tumor growth.
The role of von Hippel-Lindau protein in the differentiation of neural progenitor cells under normoxic and anoxic conditions.	Von Hippel-Lindau protein (pVHL) normally functions to cause ubiquitin-mediated degradation of hypoxia-inducible factor-1alpha (HIF-1alpha) under normoxic but not under hypoxic conditions, and induces neuronal differentiation of neural progenitor cells. However, the role of pVHL in the differentiation of neural progenitor cells under either condition has not been fully elucidated. Herein, we show that under the anoxic condition the expression of pVHL and neuronal markers in neural progenitor cells was inhibited, while HIF-1alpha was induced. In addition, neural progenitor cells expressing pVHL following gene transfer showed distinct neuronal differentiation and no induction of HIF-1alpha under the normoxic condition but not under the anoxic condition. In conclusion, neuronal differentiation induced by pVHL is associated with degradation of HIF-1alpha and occurs normally under the normoxic condition but not under the anoxic condition. Differentiation of neuronal progenitor cells may thus depend on oxygen density.
Midbrain neuronal cultures from parkin mutant mice are resistant to nitric oxide-induced toxicity.	Nitric oxide (NO) is a modulator of differentiation and survival of dopamine (DA) neurons. NO may play a role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD) since its levels are increased in parkinsonian brains and it can nitrosylate and alter the function of key proteins involved in the pathogenesis of PD. NO producing neurons are spared in parkinsonian brains suggesting that toxicity by NO can be compensated. Furthermore, the neurotoxic or neurotrophic effects of NO on DA neurons depend on the balance between NO levels and the intracellular levels of glutathione (GSH). We have investigated the effects of NO-donating agents on midbrain neuronal cultures from parkin-deficient mice. Parkin mutations are the most common genetic deficit observed in hereditary parkinsonism. These mice have abnormal DA release and metabolism, increased production of free radicals and a compensatory elevation of GSH. Cultures from parkin knockout (PK-KO) mice were more resistant than those of wild type (WT) to the neurotoxicity by NO, and the difference of susceptibility applied equally to DA, GABA and total number of neurons, and to astrocytes. NO-induced cell death was mainly apoptotic and could be reduced by caspase inhibitors. Cultures from PK-KO had greater levels of GSH than WT and, after treatment with NO, greater levels of S-nitrosoglutathione. The differences in susceptibility disappear when the synthesis of GSH is inhibited or the GSH chelated with diethyl maleate. Our data show that, contrary to the expectations, and related to the enhanced production of GSH in parkin knockout mice, parkin-deficient dopamine neurons are less susceptible to toxicity by NO.
Ubiquitination and proteasome-dependent degradation of human eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E.	Translation initiation factor 4E (eIF4E) is a cytoplasmic cap-binding protein that is required for cap-dependent translation initiation. Here, we have shown that eIF4E is ubiquitinated primarily at Lys-159 and incubation of cells with a proteasome inhibitor leads to increased eIF4E levels, suggesting the proteasome-dependent proteolysis of ubiquitinated eIF4E. Ubiquitinated eIF4E retained its cap binding ability, whereas eIF4E phosphorylation and eIF4G binding were reduced by ubiquitination. The W73A mutant of eIF4E exhibited enhanced ubiquitination/degradation, and 4E-BP overexpression protected eIF4E from ubiquitination/degradation. Because heat shock or the expression of the carboxyl terminus of heat shock cognate protein 70-interacting protein (Chip) dramatically increased eIF4E ubiquitination, Chip may be at least one ubiquitin E3 ligase responsible for eIF4E ubiquitination.
CIAP2 inhibits anigen receptor signaling by targeting Bcl10 for degredation.	The cellular inhibitor of apoptosis 2 (cIAP2) is a RING-containing protein ubiquitin ligase. In a high percentage of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphomas, cIAP2 is fused to MALT1/paracaspase as a result of the t(11;18)(q21;q21) translocation. The physiological function of cIAP2 in lymphocytes and how this function may be affected by the translocation are not well understood. We have shown that cIAP2 normally inhibits antigen receptor signaling by mediating the ubiquitination and degradation of Bcl10, a critical component for antigenic signaling to NF-kappaB. The cIAP2-MALT1 fusion protein lacks this E3 activity and is incapable of ubiquitinating Bcl10, likely causing enhanced Bcl10 expression. Furthermore, cIAP2-MALT1 and Bcl10 synergistically activate NF-kappaB. These results reveal a physiological function of cIAP2, identify Bcl10 upregulation as a unifying molecular mechanism for MALT lymphomas, and define the mechanism and effects of this upregulation in t(11;18)-positive MALT lymphomas.
24-h ambulatory blood pressure is linked to chromosome 18q21-22 and genetic variation of NEDD4L associates with cross-sectional and longitudinal blood pressure in Swedes.	Numerous linkage studies have indicated chromosome 18q21-22 as a locus of importance for blood pressure regulation. This locus harbors the neural precursor cell expressed developmentally downregulated 4-like (NEDD4L) gene, which is instrumental for the regulation of the amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel (ENaC). In a linkage study of 16 markers (including two single nucleotide polymorphism markers located within the NEDD4L gene) on chromosome 18 between 70-104 cM and ambulatory blood pressure (ABP), in 118 families, the strongest evidence of linkage was found for 24 h and day-time systolic ABP at the NEDD4L locus (82.25 cM) (P=0.0014). In a large population sample (n=4001), we subsequently showed that a NEDD4L gene variant (rs4149601), which by alternative splicing leads to varying expression of a functionally crucial C2 domain, was associated with diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (P=0.03) and DBP progression over time (P=0.04). A genotype combination of the rs4149601 and an intronic NEDD4L marker (rs2288774) was associated with systolic blood pressure (SBP) (P=0.01), DBP (P=0.04), and progression of both SBP (P=0.03) and DBP (P=0.05) over time. A quantitative transmission disequilibrium test in the family material of the rs4149601 supported this NEDD4L variant as being at least partially causative of the linkage result. In conclusion, our findings suggest that the chromosome 18 linkage peak at 82.25 cM is explained by genetic NEDD4L variation affecting cross-sectional and longitudinal blood pressure, possibly as a consequence of altered NEDD4L interaction with ENaC.
Mutational and LOH analyses of the chromosome 4q region in esophageal adenocarcinoma.	Mortality due to esophageal adenocarcinoma has risen markedly, but the molecular mechanisms underlying this carcinogenesis are still incompletely understood. Findings from loss of heterozygosity (LOH) studies have suggested that the long arm of chromosome 4 might harbor tumor suppressor genes relevant to esophageal adenocarcinoma.
A regulated interaction with the UIM protein Eps15 implicates parkin in EGF receptor trafficking and PI(3)K-Akt signalling.	Mutations in the parkin gene are responsible for a common familial form of Parkinson's disease. As parkin encodes an E3 ubiquitin ligase, defects in proteasome-mediated protein degradation are believed to have a central role in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Here, we report a novel role for parkin in a proteasome-independent ubiquitination pathway. We have identified a regulated interaction between parkin and Eps15, an adaptor protein that is involved in epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptor (EGFR) endocytosis and trafficking. Treatment of cells with EGF stimulates parkin binding to both Eps15 and the EGFR and promotes parkin-mediated ubiquitination of Eps15. Binding of the parkin ubiquitin-like (Ubl) domain to the Eps15 ubiquitin-interacting motifs (UIMs) is required for parkin-mediated Eps15 ubiquitination. Furthermore, EGFR endocytosis and degradation are accelerated in parkin-deficient cells, and EGFR signalling via the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI(3)K)-Akt pathway is reduced in parkin knockout mouse brain. We propose that by ubiquitinating Eps15, parkin interferes with the ability of the Eps15 UIMs to bind ubiquitinated EGFR, thereby delaying EGFR internalization and degradation, and promoting PI(3)K-Akt signalling. Considering the role of Akt in neuronal survival, our results have broad new implications for understanding the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Fbxw7 contributes to tumor suppression by targeting multiple proteins for ubiquitin-dependent degradation.	Fbxw7 (also known as Sel-10, hCdc4 or hAgo) is the F-box protein component of a Skp1-Cul1-F-box protein (SCF) ubiquitin ligase. Fbxw7 contributes to the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of cyclin E, c-Myc, Aurora-A, Notch and c-Jun, all of which appear to function as cell-cycle promoters and oncogenic proteins. Loss of Fbxw7 results in elevated expression of its substrates, which may lead to oncogenesis. However, it remains largely unclear which accumulating substrate is most related to cancer development in Fbxw7-mutant cancer cells. In the present study, we examined the abundance of cyclin E, c-Myc and Aurora-A in seven cancer cell lines, which harbor wild-type (three lines) or mutant (four lines) Fbxw7. Although these three substrates accumulated in the Fbxw7-mutant cells, the extent of increase in the expression of these proteins varied in each line. Forced expression of Fbxw7 reduced the levels of cyclin E, c-Myc and Aurora-A in the Fbxw7-mutant cells. In contrast, a decrease in the expression of cyclin E, c-Myc or Aurora-A by RNA interference significantly suppressed the rate of proliferation and anchorage-independent growth of the Fbxw7-mutant cells. These findings thus suggest that the loss of Fbxw7 results in accumulation of cyclin E, c-Myc and Aurora-A, all of which appear to be required for growth promotion of cancer cells. Fbxw7 seems to regulate the levels of multiple targets to suppress cancer development.
Differential role of Sp100 isoforms in interferon-mediated repression of herpes simplex virus type 1 immediate-early protein expression.	Nuclear domains called ND10 or PML nuclear bodies contain interferon (IFN)-upregulated proteins like PML and Sp100. Paradoxically, herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) begins its transcriptional cascade at aggregates of ND10-associated proteins, which in turn are destroyed by the HSV-1 immediate-early protein ICP0. While PML is essential in the formation of ND10, the function of Sp100 in the cells' defense against viral infection is unknown. In this study we investigated the potential antiviral effect of IFN-beta-induced Sp100. We found that IFN-beta treatment leads to a differential accumulation of four Sp100 isoforms in different cell lines. Using an HEK293 cell line derivative, 293-S, producing no detectable amounts of Sp100 even after IFN exposure, we analyzed individual Sp100 isoforms for their effect on HSV-1 infection. Sp100 isoforms B, C, and HMG, but not Sp100A, suppressed ICP0 and ICP4 early after infection. Isoforms B, C, and HMG suppressed expression from the ICP0 promoter in transient transfection, whereas Sp100A enhanced expression. Moreover, Sp100A localized in ND10, whereas the repressive isoforms were either dispersed within the nucleus or, at unphysiologically higher expression levels, formed new aggregates. The repressive activity was dependent on an intact SAND domain, since Sp100B bearing a W655Q mutation in the SAND domain lost this repressive activity and accumulated in ND10. Using RNA interference to knock down the repressive Sp100 isoforms B, C, and HMG, we find that they are an essential part of the IFN-beta-mediated suppression of ICP0 expression. These data suggest that repression by the Sp100 isoforms B, C, and HMG takes place outside of ND10 and raise the possibility that viral genomes at Sp100A accumulations are more likely to start their transcription program because of a more permissive local environment.
Identification of E2/E3 ubiquitinating enzymes and caspase activity regulating Drosophila sensory neuron dendrite pruning.	Ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) is a multistep protein degradation machinery implicated in many diseases. In the nervous system, UPS regulates remodeling and degradation of neuronal processes and is linked to Wallerian axonal degeneration, though the ubiquitin ligases that confer substrate specificity remain unknown. Having shown previously that class IV dendritic arborization (C4da) sensory neurons in Drosophila undergo UPS-mediated dendritic pruning during metamorphosis, we conducted an E2/E3 ubiquitinating enzyme mutant screen, revealing that mutation in ubcD1, an E2 ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme, resulted in retention of C4da neuron dendrites during metamorphosis. Further, we found that UPS activation likely leads to UbcD1-mediated degradation of DIAP1, a caspase-antagonizing E3 ligase. This allows for local activation of the Dronc caspase, thereby preserving C4da neurons while severing their dendrites. Thus, in addition to uncovering E2/E3 ubiquitinating enzymes for dendrite pruning, this study provides a mechanistic link between UPS and the apoptotic machinery in regulating neuronal process remodeling.
Hypoxia-induced assembly of prolyl hydroxylase PHD3 into complexes: implications for its activity and susceptibility for degradation by the E3 ligase Siah2.	PHD1-3 (prolyl hydroxylases 1-3) catalyse the hydroxylation of HIF (hypoxia-inducible factor)-alpha subunit that triggers the substrate ubiquitination and subsequent degradation. The RING (really interesting new gene) finger E3 ligase Siah2 preferentially targets PHD3 for degradation. Here, we identify the requirements for such selective targeting. Firstly, PHD3 lacks an N-terminal extension found in PHD1 and PHD2; deletion of this domain from PHD1 and PHD2 renders them susceptible to degradation by Siah2. Secondly, PHD3 can homo- and hetero-multimerize with other PHDs. Consequently, PHD3 is found in high-molecular-mass fractions that were enriched in hypoxia. Interestingly, within the lower-molecular-mass complex, PHD3 exhibits higher specific activity towards hydroxylation of HIF-1alpha and co-localizes with Siah2, suggesting that Siah2 limits the availability of the more active form of PHD3. These findings provide new insight into the mechanism underlying the regulation of PHD3 availability and activity in hypoxia by the E3 ligase Siah2.
Common non-synonymous polymorphisms in the BRCA1 Associated RING Domain (BARD1) gene are associated with breast cancer susceptibility: a case-control analysis.	The BRCA1 Associated RING Domain (BARD1) gene has been identified as a high penetrance gene for breast cancer, whose germline and somatic mutations were reported in both non-BRCA1/2 hereditary site-specific and sporadic breast cancer cases. BARD1 plays a crucial role in tumor repression, along with its heterodimeric partner BRCA1. In the current study, we tested the hypothesis that common non-synonymous polymorphisms in BARD1 are associated with breast cancer susceptibility in a case-control study of 507 patients with incident breast cancer and 539 frequency-matched cancer-free controls in Chinese women. We genotyped all three common (minor allele frequency (MAF)>0.10) non-synonymous polymorphisms (Pro24Ser, Arg378Ser, and Val507Met) in BARD1. We found that the BARD1 Pro24Ser variant genotypes (24Pro/Ser and 24Ser/Ser) and Arg378Ser variant homozygote 378Ser/Ser were associated with a significantly decreased breast cancer risk, compared with their wild-type homozygotes, respectively. Furthermore, a significant locus-locus interaction was evident between Pro24Ser and Arg378Ser (P(int )= 0.032). Among the 378Ser variant allele carriers, the 24Pro/Pro wild-type homozygote was associated with a significantly increased breast cancer risk (adjusted OR=1.81, 95% CI=1.11-2.95), but the subjects having 24Pro/Ser or Ser/Ser variant genotypes had a significantly decreased risk (adjusted OR=0.74, 95% CI=0.56-0.99). In stratified analysis, this locus-locus interaction was more evident among subjects without family cancer history, those with positive estrogen receptor (ER) and individuals with negative progesterone receptor (PR). These findings indicate that the potentially functional polymorphisms Pro24Ser and Arg378Ser in BARD1 may jointly contribute to the susceptibility of breast cancer.
DNA-based diagnosis of malignant osteopetrosis by whole-genome scan using a single-nucleotide polymorphism microarray: standardization of molecular investigations of genetic diseases due to consanguinity.	Malignant osteopetrosis, a severe disease causing early infantile death in humans, is caused by mutations in the TCIRG1, CLCN7, or OSTM1 genes. We have established the molecular basis of malignant osteopetrosis in a Chinese family by means of whole-genome scans based on high-density single-nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) microarrays. Because the parents were consanguineous, the disease-causing locus should be located in an autozygous chromosomal region. Mapping revealed that among the three possible causal loci, only the CLCN7 gene was located in an autozygous region. Mutational analysis of the CLCN7 gene showed that the proband was homozygous for a novel missense mutation, p.I261F. p.I261 is located in helix F of the chloride channel, near a critical site for gating of the channel. This mapping study prepares the ground for future mutation studies by decreasing the burden of completely sequencing all possible loci for this disease. This approach can be used to standardize molecular investigations of genetic diseases due to consanguinity to a whole-genome scan and subsequent sequencing of the mapped disease gene.
Cockayne syndrome exhibits dysregulation of p21 and other gene products that may be independent of transcription-coupled repair.	Cockayne syndrome (CS) is a progressive childhood neurodegenerative disorder associated with a DNA repair defect caused by mutations in either of two genes, CSA and CSB. These genes are involved in nucleotide excision repair (NER) of DNA damage from ultraviolet (UV) light, other bulky chemical adducts and reactive oxygen in transcriptionally active genes (transcription-coupled repair, TCR). For a long period it has been assumed that the symptoms of CS patients are all due to reduced TCR of endogenous DNA damage in the brain, together with unexplained unique sensitivity of specific neural cells in the cerebellum. Not all the symptoms of CS patients are however easily related to repair deficiencies, so we hypothesize that there are additional pathways relevant to the disease, particularly those that are downstream consequences of a common defect in the E3 ubiquitin ligase associated with the CSA and CSB gene products. We have found that the CSB defect results in altered expression of anti-angiogenic and cell cycle genes and proteins at the level of both gene expression and protein lifetime. We find an over-abundance of p21 due to reduced protein turnover, possibly due to the loss of activity of the CSA/CSB E3 ubiquitylation pathway. Increased levels of p21 can result in growth inhibition, reduced repair from the p21-PCNA interaction, and increased generation of reactive oxygen. Consistent with increased reactive oxygen levels we find that CS-A and -B cells grown under ambient oxygen show increased DNA breakage, as compared with xeroderma pigmentosum cells. Thus the complex symptoms of CS may be due to multiple, independent downstream targets of the E3 ubiquitylation system that results in increased DNA damage, reduced transcription coupled repair, and inhibition of cell cycle progression and growth.
Deletion of the parkin and PACRG gene promoter in early-onset parkinsonism.	Autosomal recessive mutations in the parkin gene (PARK2) have been identified as a common cause of familial and also sporadic, early-onset parkinsonism (EOPD): point mutations, exonic deletions, and duplications or triplications have been described. Here we report a novel mutation, consisting of a deletion of the promoter and exon 1 of parkin (c.1-?_7+?del), in a family compatible with autosomal recessive EOPD and an isolated case. The former was compound heterozygous for the parkin c.1-?_7+?del mutation and an exon 3 deletion (c.172-?_412+?del). The latter was homozygous for the parkin c.1-?_7+?del mutation. The promoter region is shared by parkin and the neighboring parkin coregulated gene (PACRG), which are oriented head-to-head and are transcribed on opposite DNA strands. There were no parkin transcripts in lymphoblasts from the patients carrying the parkin c.1-?_7+?del mutation. The phenotypes of patients with promoter deletions and consequently absence of parkin and possibly PACRG expression, were similar to and no more severe than those of other EOPD patients with parkin mutations.
Regulation of Commissureless by the ubiquitin ligase DNedd4 is required for neuromuscular synaptogenesis in Drosophila melanogaster.	Muscle synaptogenesis in Drosophila melanogaster requires endocytosis of Commissureless (Comm), a binding partner for the ubiquitin ligase dNedd4. We investigated whether dNedd4 and ubiquitination mediate this process. Here we show that Comm is expressed in intracellular vesicles in the muscle, whereas Comm bearing mutations in the two PY motifs (L/PPXY) responsible for dNedd4 binding [Comm(2PY-->AY)], or bearing Lys-->Arg mutations in all Lys residues that serve as ubiquitin acceptor sites [Comm(10K-->R)], localize to the muscle surface, suggesting they cannot endocytose. Accordingly, aberrant muscle innervation is observed in the Comm(2PY-->AY) and Comm(10K-->R) mutants expressed early in muscle development. Similar muscle surface accumulation of Comm and innervation defects are observed when dNedd4 is knocked down by double-stranded RNA interference in the muscle, in dNedd4 heterozygote larvae, or in muscles overexpressing catalytically inactive dNedd4. Expression of the Comm mutants fused to a single ubiquitin that cannot be polyubiquitinated and mimics monoubiquitination [Comm(2PY-->AY)-monoUb or Comm(10K-->R)-monoUb] prevents the defects in both Comm endocytosis and synaptogenesis, suggesting that monoubiquitination is sufficient for Comm endocytosis in muscles. Expression of the Comm mutants later in muscle development, after synaptic innervation, has no effect. These results demonstrate that dNedd4 and ubiquitination are required for Commissureless endocytosis and proper neuromuscular synaptogenesis.
Ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis of trihydrophobin 1 (TH1) by the human papilloma virus E6-associated protein (E6-AP).	Human Papilloma virus E6-associated protein (E6-AP), which is known as an E3 ubiquitin ligase, mediates ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of a series of cellular proteins. In this paper, we identify here trihydrophobin 1 (TH1), an integral subunit of the human negative transcription elongation factor (NELF) complex, as a novel E6-AP interaction protein and a target of E6-AP-mediated degradation. Overexpression of E6-AP results in degradation of TH1 in a dose-dependent manner, whereas knock-down of endogenous E6-AP elevates the TH1 protein level. TH1 protein turnover is substantially faster, compared to controls, in cells that overexpressed E6-AP. Wild-type E6-AP promotes the ubiquitination of TH1, while a catalytically inactive point mutant of E6-AP abolishes its ubiquitination. Furthermore, in vitro ubiquitination assay also demonstrates that TH1 can be ubiquitinated by E6-AP. The degradation is blocked by treatment with proteasome inhibitor MG132. Herein, we provide strong evidence that TH1 is a specific substrate that is targeted for degradation through E6-AP-catalyzed polyubiquitination.
C. elegans RBX-2-CUL-5- and RBX-1-CUL-2-based complexes are redundant for oogenesis and activation of the MAP kinase MPK-1.	Cul5-based complex is a member of ECS (Elongin B/C-Cul2/Cul5-SOCS-box protein) ubiquitin ligase family. The cellular function of the Cul5-based complex is poorly understood. In this study, we found that oocyte septum formation and egg production did not occur in either cul-5- or rbx-2-depleted cul-2 homozygotes, although control cul-2 homozygotes laid approximately 50 eggs. These phenotypes are reminiscent of those caused by the MAP kinase mpk-1 depletion. In fact, activation of MPK-1 was significantly inhibited in cul-5-depleted cul-2 mutant and cul-2-depleted cul-5 mutant. Yeast two-hybrid analysis and RNAi-knockdown experiments suggest that oocyte maturation from pachytene exit and MPK-1 activation are redundantly controlled by the RBX-2-CUL-5- and RBX-1-CUL-2-based complexes.
Hypoxia-inducible factors in the first trimester human lung.	Lung development takes place in a relatively low-oxygen environment, which is beneficial for lung organogenesis, including vascular development. Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1 plays an important role in mediating oxygen-regulated events. HIF-1 is stable and initiates gene transcription under hypoxia, whereas in normoxia, interaction with the von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) tumor suppressor protein leads to rapid degradation of the HIF-1alpha subunit. Interaction with VHL requires hydroxylation of HIF-1alpha proline residues by prolyl hydroxylases (PHDs). We investigated the expression of the various components regulating HIF-1alpha stability in first trimester (8-14 weeks) human lungs. Spatial expression was assessed by immunohistochemistry and temporal expression by quantitative PCR. Immunoreactivity for PHD1, PHD3, and seven in absentia homolog (SIAH)1 was noted in the pulmonary epithelium. PHD2 was not expressed in the airway epithelium, but in the lung parenchyma. HIF-1alpha and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) immunoreactivity were primarily detected in the branching epithelium. HIF-2alpha and ARNT proteins localized to the developing epithelium as well as mesenchymal, most likely vascular, structures in the parenchyma. VEGF receptor 2 (VEGFR2) was found in the subepithelium as well as in vascular structures of the mesenchyme. All components of the VEC complex (VHL, NEDD8, and Cullin2) were found in the epithelium. Quantitative PCR analysis demonstrated that VEGF, VEGFR1, HIF-1alpha, HIF-2alpha, ARNT, PHD1, PHD2, PHD3, and SIAH1 gene expression was constant during early pulmonary organogenesis. Cumulatively, the data suggest that the lung develops in a low-oxygen environment that allows for proper vascular development through HIF-regulated pathways.
BRCA2 mutation-associated breast cancers exhibit a distinguishing phenotype based on morphology and molecular profiles from tissue microarrays.	A distinct morphologic and molecular phenotype has been reported for BRCA1-associated breast cancers; however, the phenotype of BRCA2-associated breast cancers is less certain. To comprehensively characterize BRCA2-associated breast cancers we performed a retrospective case control study using tumors accrued through the Breast Cancer Family Registry. We examined the tumor morphology and hormone receptor status in 157 hereditary breast cancers with germline mutations in BRCA2 and 314 control tumors negative for BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutations that were matched for age and ethnicity. Tissue microarrays were constructed from 64 BRCA2-associated and 185 control tumors. Tissue microarray sections were examined for HER2/neu protein overexpression, p53 status and the expression of basal markers, luminal markers, cyclin D1, bcl2, and MIB1 by immunohistochemistry. The majority of BRCA2-associated tumors and control tumors were invasive ductal, no special-type tumors. In contrast to control tumors, BRCA2-associated cancers were more likely to be high grade (P<0.0001) and to have pushing tumor margins (P=0.0005). Adjusting for grade, BRCA2-associated tumors were more often estrogen receptor positive (P=0.008) and exhibited a luminal phenotype (P=0.003). They were less likely than controls to express the basal cytokeratin CK5 (P=0.03) or to overexpress HER2/neu protein (P=0.06). There was no difference in p53, bcl2, MIB1, or cyclin D1 expression between BRCA2-associated and control tumors. We have demonstrated, in the largest series of BRCA2-associated breast cancers studied to date, that these tumors are predominantly high-grade invasive ductal carcinomas of no special type and they demonstrate a luminal phenotype despite their high histologic grade.
Regulation of the Drosophila ubiquitin ligase DIAP1 is mediated via several distinct ubiquitin system pathways.	Inhibitors of apoptosis proteins (IAPs) suppress cell death by inactivating proapoptotic regulators, and therefore play important roles in controlling apoptosis in normal and malignant cells. Many IAPs are ubiquitin ligases, and their activity is mediated via ubiquitination and subsequent degradation of their targets. Here we corroborate a previous observation that DIAP1 (Drosophila IAP1) can be degraded via a two-step mechanism: (i) limited caspase-mediated cleavage and (ii) degradation of the released fragment via the ubiquitin N-end rule pathway. Yet, we demonstrate that this pathway is not the only one involved in DIAP1 degradation, and the intact protein can be degraded independent of prior caspase cleavage. Importantly, this mode of degradation does not require the RING-finger-mediated autoubiquitinating activity of DIAP1, believed to target many RING-finger E3s for self-destruction. Our preliminary data suggest that DIAP2 mediates DIAP1 degradation, suggesting a novel regulatory loop within the apoptotic pathway. Studying the role of the autoubiquitinating activity of DIAP1, we demonstrate that it does not involve formation of Lys48-based polyubiquitin chains, but probably chains linked via Lys63. Our preliminary data suggest that the autoubiquitination serves to attenuate the ligase activity of DIAP1 towards its exogenous substrates.
The infected cell protein 0 encoded by bovine herpesvirus 1 (bICP0) induces degradation of interferon response factor 3 and, consequently, inhibits beta interferon promoter activity.	The ICP0 protein (bICP0) encoded by bovine herpesvirus 1 is the major viral regulatory protein because it stimulates all viral promoters and, consequently, productive infection. Like other ICP0 analogues encoded by Alphaherpesvirinae subfamily members, bICP0 contains a zinc RING finger near its amino terminus that is necessary for activating transcription, regulating subcellular localization, and inhibiting interferon-dependent transcription. In this study, we discovered that sequences near the C terminus, and the zinc RING finger, are necessary for inhibiting the human beta interferon (IFN-beta) promoter. In contrast to herpes simplex virus type 1-encoded ICP0, bICP0 reduces interferon response factor 3 (IRF3), but not IRF7, protein levels in transiently transfected cells. The zinc RING finger and sequences near the C terminus are necessary for bICP0-induced degradation of IRF3. A proteasome inhibitor, lactacystin, interfered with bICP0-induced degradation of IRF3, suggesting that bICP0, directly or indirectly, targets IRF3 for proteasome-dependent degradation. IRF3, but not IRF7, is not readily detectable in the nuclei of productively infected bovine cells during the late stages of infection. In the context of productive infection, IRF3 and IRF7 are detected in the nucleus at early times after infection. At late times after infection, IRF7, but not IRF3, is still detectable in the nuclei of infected cells. Collectively, these studies suggest that the ability of bICP0 to reduce IRF3 protein levels is important with respect to disarming the IFN response during productive infection.
CTCF-dependent chromatin boundary element between the latency-associated transcript and ICP0 promoters in the herpes simplex virus type 1 genome.	Cells latently infected with herpes simplex virus (HSV) contain nucleosomal DNA similar to that of host cell chromatin. Recent studies have demonstrated that histones in the latency-associated transcript (LAT) promoter and intron regions contain histone modifications permissive for transcription. However, those histones associated with the lytic-specific ICP0 gene, which lies only 5 kb away, contain modifications typical of silenced chromatin. How this active chromatin is kept separate from the repressed chromatin in the nearby ICP0 region remains crucial to the understanding of the HSV lytic cycle. In this study, we show that the LAT intron region contains an insulator. Specifically, we show that an 800-bp region from the LAT intron can block enhancers in both tissue culture cells and Drosophila melanogaster embryos. Importantly, the 800-bp HSV insulator protects a LAT transgene from positional effects in Drosophila eye tissue. The 800-bp region contains nine copies of 16-bp repeats. In vitro electrophoretic mobility shift assay revealed that CTCF interacts with the CTCCC sequence within the repeats. In vivo chromatin immunoprecipitation assay demonstrated that CTCF interacts with these repeats in latently infected trigeminal ganglion neurons. The deletion of these repeats impaired insulator activity in human K562 cells and Drosophila embryos. Finally, double-spaced RNA knockdown of CTCF disrupts enhancer-blocking activity of the LAT insulator in transfected Drosophila S3 cells. These results strongly support the hypothesis that the 800-bp DNA in the LAT intron region works as a chromatin boundary during latency to separate active chromatin associated with the LAT promoter region from repressed chromatin in the ICP0 gene.
The KCNQ1 potassium channel is down-regulated by ubiquitylating enzymes of the Nedd4/Nedd4-like family.	The voltage-gated KCNQ1 potassium channel regulates key physiological functions in a number of tissues. In the heart, KCNQ1 alpha-subunits assemble with KCNE1 beta-subunits forming a channel complex constituting the delayed rectifier current I(Ks). In epithelia, KCNQ1 channels participate in controlling body electrolyte homeostasis. Several regulatory mechanisms of the KCNQ1 channel complexes have been reported, including protein kinase A (PKA)-phosphorylation and beta-subunit interactions. However, the mechanisms controlling the membrane density of KCNQ1 channels have attracted less attention.
DJ-1 and Parkin modulate dopamine-dependent behavior and inhibit MPTP-induced nigral dopamine neuron loss in mice.	Parkin-deficient animals exhibit mitochondrial degeneration and increased oxidative stress vulnerability, and both mice and flies lacking DJ-1 are hypersensitive to environmental toxins associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). We used recombinant adeno-associated virus (AAV) gene transfer to study the influence of DJ-1 and Parkin on the dopaminergic system of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated mice, a model for sporadic PD. After MPTP lesioning, significantly more dopamine neurons survived in the virus-injected substantia nigra of the AAV-DJ-1 and AAV-Parkin mice when compared with AAV-enhanced green fluorescent protein injected controls. Protection at the neuronal level was supported by increased amphetamine-induced contralateral turning behavior. Normal mice expressing DJ-1 showed apomorphine-induced ipsilateral turning, suggesting a hyporesponsiveness of striatal dopamine D1 receptors in the DJ-1-expressing hemisphere. MPTP drastically reduced dopamine to 19% of normal levels and neither DJ-1 nor Parkin protected against MPTP-induced catecholamine loss under these conditions. Our results show that Parkin and DJ-1 inhibit dopamine neuron death and enhance amphetamine-induced dopaminergic function in a mouse model of idiopathic PD. However, DJ-1 overexpression also reduced postsynaptic dopamine receptor responses in normal mice. These results warrant further exploration of DJ-1 and Parkin gene therapy for PD, although a better understanding of their effects on behavior and dopamine neurotransmission is required before these proteins can be safely used.
Vectors for co-expression of an unrestricted number of proteins.	A vector system is presented that allows generation of E. coli co-expression clones by a standardized, robust cloning procedure. The number of co-expressed proteins is not limited. Five 'pQLink' vectors for expression of His-tag and GST-tag fusion proteins as well as untagged proteins and for cloning by restriction enzymes or Gateway cloning were generated. The vectors allow proteins to be expressed individually; to achieve co-expression, two pQLink plasmids are combined by ligation-independent cloning. pQLink co-expression plasmids can accept an unrestricted number of genes. As an example, the co-expression of a heterotetrameric human transport protein particle (TRAPP) complex from a single plasmid, its isolation and analysis of its stoichiometry are shown. pQLink clones can be used directly for pull-down experiments if the proteins are expressed with different tags. We demonstrate pull-down experiments of human valosin-containing protein (VCP) with fragments of the autocrine motility factor receptor (AMFR). The cloning method avoids PCR or gel isolation of restriction fragments, and a single resistance marker and origin of replication are used, allowing over-expression of rare tRNAs from a second plasmid. It is expected that applications are not restricted to bacteria, but could include co-expression in other hosts such as Bacluovirus/insect cells.
CHIP and HSPs interact with beta-APP in a proteasome-dependent manner and influence Abeta metabolism.	The C-terminus Hsp70 interacting protein (CHIP) has dual function as both co-chaperone and ubiquitin ligase. CHIP is increasingly implicated in the biology of polyglutamine expansion disorders, Parkinson's disease and tau protein in Alzheimer's disease. We investigated the involvement of CHIP in the metabolism of the beta-amyloid precursor protein and its derivative beta-amyloid (Abeta). Using immunoprecipitation, fluorescence localization and crosslinking methods, endogenous CHIP and betaAPP interact in brain and cultured skeletal myotubes as well as when they are expressed in stable HEK cell lines. Their interaction is confined to Golgi and ER compartments. In the presence of the proteasome inhibitor with MG132, endogenous and expressed betaAPP levels are significantly increased and accordingly, the interaction with CHIP enhanced. Concurrently, levels of Hsp70 were most consistently induced by proteasome inhibition among the various heat shock proteins (HSPs) tested. Thus, complexes of CHIP, Hsp70 and holo-betaAPP (as well as C-terminal fragments) were stabilized by the action of MG132. Moreover, CHIP itself is shown to both increase cellular holo-betaAPP levels and protect it from oxidative stress and degradation. Interestingly, CHIP also promotes the association of ubiquitin with betaAPP, implying that a smaller pool of betaAPP is destined for proteasomal processing. In neuronal cultures, CHIP and Hsp70/90 expression reduce steady-state cellular Abeta levels and hasten its degradation in pulse-chase experiments. The functional significance of CHIP and HSP interactions, especially with Hsp70, was tested using siRNA and in neuronal cells where protection from Abeta-induced toxicity is shown. We conclude that CHIP, as a bimolecular switch, interacts with HSP to stabilize normal holo-betaAPP on the one hand while also assisting in the ubiquitination of a subpopulation of betaAPP molecules that are destined for proteasome degradation. CHIP also hastens the clearance of Abeta in a manner consistent with its known neuroprotective properties.
Phosphorylation of Parkin by the cyclin-dependent kinase 5 at the linker region modulates its ubiquitin-ligase activity and aggregation.	Mutations in Parkin are responsible for a large percentage of autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism cases. Parkin displays ubiquitin-ligase activity and protects against cell death promoted by several insults. Therefore, regulation of Parkin activities is important for understanding the dopaminergic cell death observed in Parkinson disease. We now report that cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) phosphorylates Parkin both in vitro and in vivo. We found that highly specific Cdk5 inhibitors and a dominant negative Cdk5 construct inhibited Parkin phosphorylation, suggesting that a significant portion of Parkin is phosphorylated by Cdk5. Parkin interacts with Cdk5 as observed by co-immunoprecipitation experiments of transfected cells and rat brains. Phosphorylation by Cdk5 decreased the auto-ubiquitylation of Parkin both in vitro and in vivo. We identified Ser-131 located at the linker region of Parkin as the major Cdk5 phosphorylation site. The Cdk5 phosphorylation-deficient S131A Parkin mutant displayed a higher auto-ubiquitylation level and increased ubiquitylation activity toward its substrates synphilin-1 and p38. Additionally, the S131A Parkin mutant more significantly accumulated into inclusions in human dopaminergic cells when compared with the wild-type Parkin. Furthermore, S131A Parkin mutant increased the formation of synphilin-1/alpha-synuclein inclusions, suggesting that the levels of Parkin phosphorylation and ubiquitylation may modulate the formation of inclusion bodies relevant to the disease. The data indicate that Cdk5 is a new regulator of the Parkin ubiquitin-ligase activity and modulates its ability to accumulate into and modify inclusions. Phosphorylation by Cdk5 may contribute to the accumulation of toxic Parkin substrates and decrease the ability of dopaminergic cells to cope with toxic insults in Parkinson disease.
The amplified WWP1 gene is a potential molecular target in breast cancer.	The amplification of the q21 band of chromosome 8 (8q21) occurs in a large percentage of breast cancers. WWP1, an HECT domain-containing ubiquitin E3 ligase located in the 8q21 region, negatively regulates the TGF-beta tumor suppressor pathway. To characterize the role of WWP1 in breast cancer, we analyzed WWP1 gene dosage and expression level as well as WWP1's function. A copy number gain of WWP1 was found in 51% (18/35) of breast cancer cell lines and in 41% (17/41) of primary breast tumors. Expression of WWP1 mRNA was analyzed with real-time RT-PCR, Northern blot, and Western blot. WWP1 mRNA is up-regulated in 58% (19/33) of breast cancer cell lines, and overexpression of WWP1 is significantly correlated with a gene copy number gain. In a panel of cDNA from primary breast tumors and normal tissues, expression of WWP1 in tumors is significantly higher than that in normal tissues. Functionally, RNAi-mediated WWP1 knockdown significantly induced cell growth arrest and apoptosis in the MCF7 and HCC1500 breast cancer cell lines. Consistently, WWP1 inhibition activated caspases. Forced overexpression of WWP1 by the lentiviral system in 2 immortalized breast epithelial cell lines MCF10A and 184B5 promoted cell proliferation. These results suggest that genomic aberrations of WWP1 may contribute to the pathogenesis of breast cancer.
The characterization of zebrafish antimorphic mib alleles reveals that Mib and Mind bomb-2 (Mib2) function redundantly.	Both mind bomb (mib) and mind bomb-2 (mib2) encode RING E3 ubiquitin ligases that promote Delta ubiquitylation and endocytosis in Notch activation. Detailed morphological and molecular examinations revealed that zebrafish mib(ta52b) (missense mutation in the C-terminal RING Finger (RF), M1013R) and mib(m132) (nonsense mutation resulting in a truncated protein that loses all three RFs, C785stop) are strong and weak antimorphic alleles, respectively, compared to the null allele, mib(tfi91) (nonsense mutation resulting in a truncated protein of only 60 amino acids, Y60stop). Zebrafish mib2 ortholog was identified in this study. Zebrafish Mib and Mib2 are colocalized in transfected cells and function redundantly in regulating Notch signaling in embryos. Mib(ta52b) and Mib(m132) have a dosage-dependent dominant-negative effect, at least, on Mib2, which is a molecular basis for the antimorphic phenotypes. It was also shown that Notch signaling negatively regulates mib expression in a Su(H)-dependent manner, forming a negative feedback loop in modulating Notch activation.
MPTP and DSP-4 susceptibility of substantia nigra and locus coeruleus catecholaminergic neurons in mice is independent of parkin activity.	Mutations in the parkin gene cause autosomal recessive familial Parkinson's disease (PD). Parkin-deficient mouse models fail to recapitulate nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurodegeneration as seen in PD, but produce deficits in dopaminergic neurotransmission and noradrenergic-dependent behavior. Since sporadic PD is thought to be caused by a combination of genetic susceptibilities and environmental factors, we hypothesized that neurotoxic insults from catecholaminergic toxins would render parkin knockout mice more vulnerable to neurodegeneration. Accordingly, we investigated the susceptibility of catecholaminergic neurons in parkin knockout mice to the potent dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurotoxins 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) and N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) respectively. We report that nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons in parkin knockout mice do not show increased susceptibility to the parkinsonian neurotoxin, MPTP, in acute, subacute and chronic dose regimens of the neurotoxin. Additionally, parkin knockout mice do not show increased vulnerability to the noradrenergic neurotoxin, DSP-4, regarding levels of norepinephrine in cortex, brain stem and spinal cord. These findings suggest that absence of parkin in mice does not increase susceptibility to the loss of catecholaminergic neurons upon exposure to both dopaminergic and noradrenergic neurotoxins.
Expression of immune-related genes in the oyster Crassostrea gigas during ontogenesis.	The work presented here reports the expression of immune-related genes during ontogenesis in the oyster Crassostrea gigas. Expression patterns of 18 selected genes showed that RNAs detected in oocytes and 2-4 cell embryos are of maternal origin and that gene transcription starts early after fertilization. The expression patterns of 4 genes (Cg-timp, Cg-tal, Cg-EcSOD and Drac3) suggested that hemocytes appear in the gastrula-trochophore stages. The localization of Cg-tal expression suggested that hematopoietic cells were derived from vessels and/or artery endothelia cells. Moreover, a bacterial challenge affected the level of expression of genes. Indeed, a change in expression levels was observed for Cg-LBP/BPI, Cg-timp, Drac3 and Cg-MyD88 genes in larval stages upon exposure to non-pathogenic bacteria. In early juveniles, a modulation was also observed for Cg-LBP/BPI, Cg-timp, Cg-MyD88 and for Cg-tal, according to the concentration of bacteria. Altogether, the results showed that studying the appearance of immunocompetent cells through their ability to express immune-related genes is a tool to gain insight the ontogenesis of the oyster immune system.
Molecular epigenetics of Angelman syndrome.	Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurogenetic disorder characterized by severe mental retardation, ataxia, seizures, EEG abnormalities and bouts of inappropriate laughter. AS individuals fail to inherit a normal active maternal copy of ubiquitin protein ligase E3A (UBE3A). UBE3A is subject to genomic imprinting, with predominant transcription of the maternal allele in brain. The known genetic causes of AS are maternal deletion of chromosome 15q11-q13, paternal chromosome 15 uniparental disomy, UBE3A mutation and an abnormality of the imprinting process, termed imprinting defect. There remain major questions concerning the molecular pathogenesis of AS, including: 1) the mechanisms underlying the imprinting defect class of AS, 2) the identity of proteins targeted by UBE3A, 3) the role of a noncoding antisense transcript in regulating UBE3A imprinting and 4) the contribution of other genes such as methyl-binding CpG-binding protein 2 and gamma-aminobutyric acid A receptor, subunit beta3 to the AS phenotype.
A family with Parkinson disease, essential tremor, bell palsy, and parkin mutations.	Mutations in the parkin gene cause autosomal recessive early-onset Parkinson disease (EOPD). The A265G variant in the HS1 binding protein 3 gene (HS1BP3) is common in essential tremor (ET).
A mutation in NLA, which encodes a RING-type ubiquitin ligase, disrupts the adaptability of Arabidopsis to nitrogen limitation.	Abundant nitrogen is required for the optimal growth and development of plants, while numerous biotic and abiotic factors that consume soil nitrogen frequently create a nitrogen limitation growth condition. To cope with this, plants have evolved a suite of adaptive responses to nitrogen limitation. However, the molecular mechanism governing the adaptability of plants to nitrogen limitation is totally unknown because no reported mutant defines this trait. Here we isolated an Arabidopsis mutant, nla (nitrogen limitation adaptation), and identified the NLA gene as an essential component in this molecular mechanism. Supplied with insufficient inorganic nitrogen (nitrate or ammonium), the nla mutant failed to develop the essential adaptive responses to nitrogen limitation, but senesced much earlier and more rapidly than did the wild type. Under other stress conditions including low phosphorus nutrient, drought and high temperature, the nla mutant did not show this early senescence phenotype, but closely resembled the wild type in growth and development. Map-based cloning of NLA revealed that this gene encodes a RING-type ubiquitin ligase, and nla is a deletion mutation which does not code for the RING domain in the NLA protein. The NLA protein is localized to the nuclear speckles, where this protein interacts with the Arabidopsis ubiquitin conjugase 8 (AtUBC8). In the nla mutant, the deletion of the RING domain from NLA altered its subcellular localization, disrupted the interaction between NLA and AtUBC8 and caused the early senescence phenotype induced by low inorganic nitrogen. All the results indicate that NLA is a positive regulator for the development of the adaptability of Arabidopsis to nitrogen limitation.
Structure of the Parkin in-between-ring domain provides insights for E3-ligase dysfunction in autosomal recessive Parkinson's disease.	Mutations in Parkin are one of the predominant hereditary factors found in patients suffering from autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinsonism. Parkin is a member of the E3 ubiquitin ligase family that is defined by a tripartite RING1-in-between-ring (IBR)-RING2 motif. In Parkin, the IBR domain has been shown to augment binding of the E2 proteins UbcH7 and UbcH8, and the subsequent ubiquitination of the proteins synphilin-1, Sept5, and SIM2. To facilitate our understanding of Parkin function, the solution structure of the Parkin IBR domain was solved by using NMR spectroscopy. Folding of the IBR domain (residues M327-S378) was found to be zinc dependent, and the structure reveals the domain forms a unique pair scissor-like and GAG knuckle-like zinc-binding sites, different from other zinc-binding motifs such as the RING, LIM, PHD, or B-box motifs. The N terminus of the IBR domain, residues E307-E322, is unstructured. The disease causing mutation T351P causes global unfolding, whereas the mutation R334C causes some structural rearrangement of the domain. In contrast, the protein containing the mutation G328E appears to be properly folded. The structure of the Parkin IBR domain, in combination with mutational data, allows a model to be proposed where the IBR domain facilitates a close arrangement of the adjacent RING1 and RING2 domains to facilitate protein interactions and subsequent ubiquitination.
Regulation of histone H3K4 tri-methylation and PAF complex recruitment by the Ccr4-Not complex.	Efficient transcription is linked to modification of chromatin. For instance, tri-methylation of lysine 4 on histone H3 (H3K4) strongly correlates with transcriptional activity and is regulated by the Bur1/2 kinase complex. We found that the evolutionarily conserved Ccr4-Not complex is involved in establishing H3K4 tri-methylation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We observed synthetic lethal interactions of Ccr4-Not components with BUR1 and BUR2. Further analysis indicated that the genes encoding the Not-proteins are essential for efficient regulation of H3K4me3, but not H3K4me1/2, H3K36me2 or H3K79me2/3 levels. Moreover, regulation of H3K4me3 levels by NOT4 is independent of defects in RNA polymerase II loading. We found NOT4 to be important for ubiquitylation of histone H2B via recruitment of the PAF complex, but not for recruitment or activation of the Bur1/2 complex. These results suggest a mechanism in which the Ccr4-Not complex functions parallel to or downstream of the Bur1/2 kinase to facilitate H3K4me3 via PAF complex recruitment.
Molecular haplotyping of tandem single nucleotide polymorphisms by allele-specific PCR.	BARD1 Val507Met (1592A>G) is an interesting marker for association studies on cancer risk. However, studies are scarce in the literature, probably reflecting the methodological problem imposed by the fact that next to the 1592A>G stands the 1591C>T single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP). We have designed an allele-specific PCR method capable of molecular haplotyping tandem SNPs. In the tandem SNPs haplotyping assay (tSNPh), four reverse primers are designed to be perfect matches of each potential haplotype. The forward primer is labeled with a fluorochrome. PCR products are analyzed by capillary electrophoresis. Haplotyping is performed by size calling. To ascertain the accuracy and reproducibility of the assay, we measured the level of concordance with sequencing data in 124 samples. In vitro-generated templates have been used for further testing. We developed a novel and reliable assay that permits typing two SNPs directly adjacent to each other, avoiding mutual interferences. The method is amenable to automation and high throughput. We expect that this assay will contribute to clarifying the role of BARD1 in cancer susceptibility. In addition, we suggest that tandem SNPs are potentially interesting polymorphic markers in which molecular haplotyping can be performed easily.
A QTL for rice grain width and weight encodes a previously unknown RING-type E3 ubiquitin ligase.	Grain weight is one of the most important components of grain yield and is controlled by quantitative trait loci (QTLs) derived from natural variations in crops. However, the molecular roles of QTLs in the regulation of grain weight have not been fully elucidated. Here, we report the cloning and characterization of GW2, a new QTL that controls rice grain width and weight. Our data show that GW2 encodes a previously unknown RING-type protein with E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, which is known to function in the degradation by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway. Loss of GW2 function increased cell numbers, resulting in a larger (wider) spikelet hull, and it accelerated the grain milk filling rate, resulting in enhanced grain width, weight and yield. Our results suggest that GW2 negatively regulates cell division by targeting its substrate(s) to proteasomes for regulated proteolysis. The functional characterization of GW2 provides insight into the mechanism of seed development and is a potential tool for improving grain yield in crops.
Mycobacterial infections: PARK2 and PACRG associations in leprosy.	An overview of investigations indicating an important role of host genetics, both major histocompatibility complex (MHC) and non-MHC, in leprosy.
Negative regulation of the RIG-I signaling by the ubiquitin ligase RNF125.	Retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I) plays a pivotal role in the regulation of cytokine production induced by pathogens. The RIG-I also augments the production of IFN and other cytokines via an amplification circuit. Because the production of cytokines is closely controlled, up- and down-regulation of RIG-I signaling also needs strict regulation. The mechanism of this regulation, however, remains elusive. Here, we found that RIG-I undergoes proteasomal degradation after conjugation to ubiquitin by RNF125. Further, RNF125 conjugates ubiquitin to MDA5, a family protein of RIG-I as well as IPS-1, which is also a downstream protein of RIG-I signaling that results in suppressing the functions of these proteins. Because RNF125 is enhanced by IFN, these functions constitute a negative regulatory loop circuit for IFN production.
Polymorphism in NEDD4L is associated with increased salt sensitivity, reduced levels of P-renin and increased levels of Nt-proANP.	Neuronal precursor cell expressed developmentally down-regulated 4-like (NEDD4L) is a regulator of the amiloride-sensitive epithelial sodium channel (ENaC), thus a candidate gene for salt sensitivity. Carriers of an intact NEDD4L C2-domain, encoded by the NEDD4L rs4149601 (G/A) GG genotype, together with the C-allele of the NEDD4L rs2288774 (C/T) polymorphism have previously been shown to have increased blood pressure. Our aim was to test if genetic variation in NEDD4L is associated with increased salt sensitivity.
A genome-wide scan in an Amish pedigree with parkinsonism.	The identification of familial Parkinson Disease (PD) genes is yielding important molecular pathogenetic insights. In an effort to identify additional PD genes, we studied an eight generation Amish pedigree with apparent autosomal dominant parkinsonism with incomplete penetrance. Phenotypic variability ranged from idiopathic PD to progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), with the average age at onset 53 years (range of 39 to 74 years). We identified markers on chromosome 3 and 7 that were significant at a genome-wide level by parametric and nonparametric criteria, lod > 3 and non-parametric P-value < 0.10, respectively. We also identified markers on chromosomes 10 and 22 with lod > 3. These data suggest that parkinsonism in this pedigree is genetically complex, with contributions from several loci.
The Fbxw7/hCdc4 tumor suppressor in human cancer.	Fbxw7/hCdc4 is a member of the F-box family of proteins, which function as interchangeable substrate recognition components of the SCF ubiquitin ligases. SCF(Fbxw7/hCdc4) targets several important oncoproteins including c-Myc, c-Jun, cyclin E1, and Notch, for ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. Recent studies have shown that FBXW7/hCDC4 is mutated in a variety of human tumor types, suggesting that it is a general tumor suppressor in human cancer. Alteration of Fbxw7/hCdc4 function is linked to defects in differentiation, cellular proliferation, and genetic instability. In this review, we summarize what is known about Fbxw7/hCdc4-mediated degradation in the regulation of cellular proliferation and discuss how alteration of its function contributes to human tumorigenesis.
Parkin as a tumor suppressor gene for hepatocellular carcinoma.	The parkin was first identified as a gene implicated in autosomal recessive juvenile Parkinsonism. Deregulation of the parkin gene, however, has been observed in various human cancers, suggesting that the parkin gene may be important in tumorigenesis. To gain insight into the physiologic role of parkin, we generated parkin-/- mice lacking exon 3 of the parkin gene. We demonstrated here that parkin-/- mice had enhanced hepatocyte proliferation and developed macroscopic hepatic tumors with the characteristics of hepatocellular carcinoma. Microarray analyses revealed that parkin deficiency caused the alteration of gene expression profiles in the liver. Among them, endogenous follistatin is commonly upregulated in both nontumorous and tumorous liver tissues of parkin-deficient mice. Parkin deficiency resulted in suppression of caspase activation and rendered hepatocytes resistant to apoptosis in a follistatin-dependent manner. These results suggested that parkin deficiency caused enhanced hepatocyte proliferation and resistance to apoptosis, resulting in hepatic tumor development, partially through the upregulation of endogenous follistatin. The finding that parkin-deficient mice are susceptible to hepatocarcinogenesis provided the first evidence showing that parkin is indeed a tumor suppressor gene.
The glucocorticoid receptor and FOXO1 synergistically activate the skeletal muscle atrophy-associated MuRF1 gene.	The muscle specific ubiquitin E3 ligase MuRF1 has been implicated as a key regulator of muscle atrophy under a variety of conditions, such as during synthetic glucocorticoid treatment. FOXO class transcription factors have been proposed as important regulators of MuRF1 expression, but its regulation by glucocorticoids is not well understood. The MuRF1 promoter contains a near-perfect palindromic glucocorticoid response element (GRE) 200 base pairs upstream of the transcription start site. The GRE is highly conserved in the mouse, rat, and human genes along with a directly adjacent FOXO binding element (FBE). Transient transfection assays in HepG2 cells and C(2)C(12) myotubes demonstrate that the MuRF1 promoter is responsive to both the dexamethasone (DEX)-activated glucocorticoid receptor (GR) and FOXO1, whereas coexpression of GR and FOXO1 leads to a dramatic synergistic increase in reporter gene activity. Mutation of either the GRE or the FBE significantly impairs activation of the MuRF1 promoter. Consistent with these findings, DEX-induced upregulation of MuRF1 is significantly attenuated in mice expressing a homodimerization-deficient GR despite no effect on the degree of muscle loss in these mice vs. their wild-type counterparts. Finally, chromatin immunoprecipitation analysis reveals that both GR and FOXO1 bind to the endogenous MuRF1 promoter in C(2)C(12) myotubes, and IGF-I inhibition of DEX-induced MuRF1 expression correlates with the loss of FOXO1 binding. These findings present new insights into the role of the GR and FOXO family of transcription factors in the transcriptional regulation of the MuRF1 gene, a direct target of the GR in skeletal muscle.
LRRK2 and Parkin mutations in a family with parkinsonism-Lack of genotype-phenotype correlation.	Here we report the relationship between age at onset, clinical course and genotype in a family with combined LRRK2 G2019S and Parkin exon 2 deletions. In the combined mutation carriers the age at onset and clinical course was highly variable and not always younger than in the carriers of LRRK2 G2019S mutations alone.
Intracellular sodium regulates proteolytic activation of the epithelial sodium channel.	Na(+) transport across epithelia is mediated in part by the epithelial Na(+) channel ENaC. Previous work indicates that Na(+) is an important regulator of ENaC, providing a negative feedback mechanism to maintain Na(+) homeostasis. ENaC is synthesized as an inactive precursor, which is activated by proteolytic cleavage of the extracellular domains of the alpha and gamma subunits. Here we found that Na(+) regulates ENaC in part by altering proteolytic activation of the channel. When the Na(+) concentration was low, we found that the majority of ENaC at the cell surface was in the cleaved/active state. As Na(+) increased, there was a dose-dependent decrease in ENaC cleavage and, hence, ENaC activity. This Na(+) effect was dependent on Na(+) permeation; cleavage was increased by the ENaC blocker amiloride and by a mutation that decreases ENaC activity (alpha(H69A)) and was reduced by a mutation that activates ENaC (beta(S520K)). Moreover, the Na(+) ionophore monensin reversed the effect of the inactivating mutation (alpha(H69A)) on ENaC cleavage, suggesting that intracellular Na(+) regulates cleavage. Na(+) did not alter activity of Nedd4-2, an E3 ubiquitin ligase that modulates ENaC cleavage, but Na(+) reduced ENaC cleavage by exogenous trypsin. Our findings support a model in which intracellular Na(+) regulates cleavage by altering accessibility of ENaC cleavage sites to proteases and provide a molecular explanation for the earlier observation that intracellular Na(+) inhibits Na(+) transport via ENaC (Na(+) feedback inhibition).
An obligatory heterodimer of 14-3-3beta and 14-3-3epsilon is required for aldosterone regulation of the epithelial sodium channel.	Increased distal nephron sodium absorption in response to aldosterone involves Nedd4-2 phosphorylation, which blocks its ability to ubiquitylate ENaC and increases apical membrane channel density by reducing its endocytosis. Our prior work (Liang, X., Peters, K. W., Butterworth, M. B., and Frizzell, R. A. (2006) J. Biol. Chem. 281, 16323-16332) showed that aldosterone selectively increased 14-3-3 protein isoform expression and that the association of 14-3-3beta with phospho-Nedd4-2 was required for sodium transport stimulation. The knockdown of 14-3-3beta alone nearly eliminated the response to aldosterone, despite the expression of other 14-3-3 isoforms in cortical collecting duct (CCD) cells. To further examine this marked effect of 14-3-3beta knockdown, we evaluated the hypothesis that phospho-Nedd4-2 binding prefers a heterodimer composed of two different 14-3-3 isoforms. We tested this concept in polarized CCD cells using RNA interference and assays of sodium transport and of the interaction of Nedd4-2 with 14-3-3epsilon, a second aldosterone-induced isoform. As observed previously for 14-3-3beta knockdown, small interfering RNA-induced reduction of 14-3-3epsilon markedly attenuated aldosterone-stimulated ENaC expression and sodium transport and increased the interaction of Nedd4-2 with ENaC toward prealdosterone levels. After aldosterone induction, 14-3-3beta and 14-3-3epsilon were quantitatively co-immunoprecipitated from CCD cell lysates, and the association of both isoforms with Nedd4-2 increased. Finally, the knockdown of either 14-3-3beta or 14-3-3epsilon reduced the association of Nedd4-2 with the other isoform. We conclude that the two aldosterone-induced 14-3-3 isoforms, beta and epsilon, interact with phospho-Nedd4-2 as an obligatory heterodimer, blocking its interaction with ENaC and thereby increasing apical ENaC density and sodium transport.
Cooperative exonization of MaLR and AluJo elements contributed an alternative promoter and novel splice variants of RNF19.	The RNF19 protein, which contains RING-finger and IBR motifs, acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase localized to Lewy bodies. RNF19 is located on human chromosome 8q22.2, has a 4.4-kb transcript, and is ubiquitously expressed in various tissues. Here, we identified an alternative RNF19 promoter region and alternative RNF19 transcripts derived from MaLR (mammalian apparent LTR-retrotransposon) and AluJo elements. Comparative analyses indicated human-specific expression of the MaLR- and AluJo-related transcripts. From the expression analysis of 72 tissue samples including human normal, tumor, and primate tissues, three different isoforms (V1, V2, and V3) of MaLR-derived transcripts were identified. Quantitative RT-PCR analysis showed a dominant expression pattern of the V2 MaLR-derived transcript. A reporter gene assay for MaLR element promoter activity indicated that pGL2-RNF19/MaLR in the forward orientation is capable of driving luciferase gene expression in Cos7 and HCT116 cells. These findings suggest that RNF19 has acquired a new promoter and alternative exons via continuous retrotransposition events of MaLR and AluJo elements during mammalian and primate evolution, respectively.
The ubiquitin ligase Nedd4 mediates oxidized low-density lipoprotein-induced downregulation of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor.	Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is proatherogenic and induces smooth muscle cell apoptosis, which contributes to atherosclerotic plaque destabilization. We showed previously that oxidized LDL downregulates insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor in human smooth muscle cells and that this is critical for induction of apoptosis. To identify mechanisms, we exposed smooth muscle cells to 60 mug/ml oxidized LDL or native LDL and assessed insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor mRNA levels, protein synthesis rate, and receptor protein stability. Oxidized LDL decreased insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor mRNA levels by 30% at 8 h compared with native LDL, and this decrease was maintained for up to 20 h. However, insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor protein synthesis rate was not altered by oxidized LDL. Pulse-chase labeling experiments revealed that oxidized LDL reduced insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor protein half-life to 12.2+/-1.7 h from 24.4+/-4.7 h with native LDL. This destabilization of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor protein was accompanied by enhanced receptor ubiquitination. Overexpression of dominant-negative Nedd4 prevented oxidized LDL-induced downregulation of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor, suggesting that Nedd4 was the ubiquitin ligase that mediated receptor downregulation. However, the proteasome inhibitors lactacystin, MG-132, and proteasome inhibitor-1 failed to block oxidized LDL-induced downregulation of insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor. Thus oxidized LDL downregulates insulin-like growth factor-1 receptor by destabilizing the protein via Nedd4-enhanced ubiquitination, leading to degradation via a proteasome-independent pathway. This finding provides novel insights into oxidized LDL-triggered oxidant signaling and mechanisms of smooth muscle cell depletion that contribute to plaque destabilization and coronary events.
BAH1/NLA, a RING-type ubiquitin E3 ligase, regulates the accumulation of salicylic acid and immune responses to Pseudomonas syringae DC3000.	Salicylic acid (SA) is a primary factor responsible for exerting diverse immune responses in plants and is synthesized in response to attack by a wide range of pathogens. The Arabidopsis (Arabidopsis thaliana) sid2 mutant is defective in a SA biosynthetic pathway involving ISOCHORISMATE SYNTHASE1 (ICS1) and consequently contains reduced levels of SA. However, the sid2 mutant as well as ICS-suppressed tobacco (Nicotiana benthamiana) still accumulate a small but significant level of SA. These observations along with previous studies suggest that SA might also be synthesized by another pathway involving benzoic acid (BA). Here we isolated a benzoic acid hypersensitive1-Dominant (bah1-D) mutant that excessively accumulated SA after application of BA from activation-tagged lines. This mutant also accumulated higher levels of SA after inoculation with Pseudomonas syringae pv tomato DC3000. Analysis of the bah1-D sid2 double mutant suggested that the bah1-D mutation caused both ICS1-dependent and -independent accumulation. In addition, the bah1-D mutant showed SA-dependent localized cell death in response to P. syringae pv tomato DC3000. The T-DNA insertional mutation that caused the bah1-D phenotypes resulted in the suppression of expression of the NLA gene, which encodes a RING-type ubiquitin E3 ligase. These results suggest that BAH1/NLA plays crucial roles in the ubiquitination-mediated regulation of immune responses, including BA- and pathogen-induced SA accumulation, and control of cell death.
Cooperation of sumoylated chromosomal proteins in rDNA maintenance.	SUMO is a posttranslational modifier that can modulate protein activities, interactions, and localizations. As the GFP-Smt3p fusion protein has a preference for subnucleolar localization, especially when deconjugation is impaired, the nucleolar role of SUMO can be the key to its biological functions. Using conditional triple SUMO E3 mutants, we show that defects in sumoylation impair rDNA maintenance, i.e., the rDNA segregation is defective and the rDNA copy number decreases in these mutants. Upon characterization of sumoylated proteins involved in rDNA maintenance, we established that Top1p and Top2p, which are sumoylated by Siz1p/Siz2p, most likely collaborate with substrates of Mms21p to maintain rDNA integrity. Cohesin and condensin subunits, which both play important roles in rDNA stability and structures, are potential substrates of Mms21, as their sumoylation depends on Mms21p, but not Siz1p and Siz2p. In addition, binding of cohesin and condensin to rDNA is altered in the mms21-CH E3-deficient mutant.
Analysis of Nigerians with apparently sporadic Parkinson disease for mutations in LRRK2, PRKN and ATXN3.	Several genetic variations have been associated with Parkinson disease in different populations over the past few years. Although a considerable number of worldwide populations have been screened for these variants, results from Sub-Saharan populations are very scarce in the literature. In the present report we have screened a cohort of Parkinson disease patients (n = 57) and healthy controls (n = 51) from Nigeria for mutations in the genes PRKN, LRRK2 and ATXN3. No pathogenic mutations were found in any of the genes. Hence, common pathogenic mutations in these genes, observed in several different populations, are not a frequent cause of Parkinson disease in Nigeria.
Promoter hypermethylation is not the major mechanism for inactivation of the FBXW7 beta-form in human gliomas.	FBXW7 has been reported to be a candidate tumor suppressor gene on 4q31. Three isoforms (alpha-form, beta-form, and gamma-form) of FBXW7 are produced from mRNAs with distinct 5' exons. Our previous study identified the specific suppression of the mRNA expression of the FBXW7 beta-form in human gliomas. Because this form is the major FBXW7 isoform in the human brain, we elucidated the silencing mechanisms for the FBXW7 beta-form in gliomas. No genetic alterations were found in the whole FBXW7 gene including putative promoter region of the beta-form. Treatments with 5-azacytidine and trichostatin A did not induce re-expression. A sodium bisulfite-modification assay indicated that CpG sequences in the promoter of FBXW7 beta-form were not methylated in glioma cells. Meanwhile we searched for the expression of FBXW7 and the sodium bisulfite sequences in normal human peripheral blood cells, and we surprisingly found that the mRNA expression of the FBXW7 beta-form was highly suppressed and the CpG sequences in the promoter region of the FBXW7 beta-form were heavily methylated. Our data suggest that the inactivation of the FBXW7 beta-form plays an important role in the pathogenesis of gliomas and that an unknown mechanism(s) other than mutation and methylation is the major cause of the suppression of the FBXW7 beta-form in gliomas.
Low frequency of the PARK2 gene mutations in Polish patients with the early-onset form of Parkinson disease.	Mutations in the PARK2 (Parkin) gene result in an early-onset autosomal recessive form of Parkinson Disease (EO-PD). Although the frequency of the PARK2 mutations in EO-PD patients according to several studies is high and has been reported in up to 50% in familial and 19% in sporadic cases, these data remain controversial.
Neuroinflammation in Parkinson's disease: its role in neuronal death and implications for therapeutic intervention.	Parkinson's disease (PD) is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, after Alzheimer's disease. The potential causes of PD remain uncertain, but recent studies suggest neuroinflammation and microglia activation play important roles in PD pathogenesis. Major unanswered questions include whether protein aggregates cause the selective loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra that underlies the clinical symptoms and whether neuroinflammation is a consequence or a cause of nigral cell loss. Within the microenvironment of the brain, glial cells play a critical role in homeostatic mechanisms that promote neuronal survival. Microglia have a specialized immune surveillance role and mediate innate immune responses to invading pathogens by secreting a myriad of factors that include, cytokines, chemokines, prostaglandins, reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, and growth factors. Some of these factors have neuroprotective and trophic activities and aid in brain repair processes; while others enhance oxidative stress and trigger apoptotic cascades in neurons. Therefore, pro- and anti-inflammatory responses must be in balance to prevent the potential detrimental effects of prolonged or unregulated inflammation-induced oxidative stress on vulnerable neuronal populations. In this review, we discuss potential triggers of neuroinflammation and review the strongest direct evidence that chronic neuroinflammation may have a more important role to play in PD versus other neurodegenerative diseases. Alternatively, we propose that genetic deficiency is not the only way to reduce protective factors in the brain which may function to keep microglial responses in check or regulate the sensitivity of DA neurons. If chronic inflammation can be shown to decrease the levels of neuroprotective factors in the midbrain, in essence genetic haploinsufficiency of protective factors such as Parkin or RGS10 may result from purely environmental triggers (aging, chronic systemic disease, etc.), increasing the vulnerability to inflammation-induced nigral DA neuron death and predisposing an individual to development of PD. Lastly, we review the latest epidemiological and experimental evidence supporting the potential use of anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory drugs as neuroprotective agents to delay the progressive nigrostriatal degeneration that leads to motor dysfunction in PD.
Usa1p is required for optimal function and regulation of the Hrd1p endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation ubiquitin ligase.	Usa1p is a recently discovered member of the HRD ubiquitin ligase complex. The HRD pathway is a conserved route of ubiquitin-dependent, endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-associated degradation (ERAD) of numerous lumenal (ERAD-L) and membrane-anchored (ERAD-M) substrates. We have investigated Usa1p to understand its importance in HRD complex action. Usa1p was required for the optimal function of the Hrd1p E3 ubiquitin ligase; its loss caused deficient degradation of both membrane-associated and lumenal proteins. Furthermore, Usa1p functioned in regulation of Hrd1p by two mechanisms. First, Hrd1p self-degradation, which serves to limit the levels of uncomplexed E3, is absolutely dependent on Usa1p and the ubiquitin-like (Ubl) domain of Usa1p. We found that Usa1p allows Hrd1p degradation by promoting trans interactions between Hrd1p molecules. The Ubl domain of Usa1p was required specifically for Hrd1p self-ubiquitination but not for degradation of either ERAD-L or ERAD-M substrates. In addition, Usa1p was able to attenuate the activity-dependent toxicity of Hrd1p without compromising substrate degradation, indicating a separate role in ligase regulation that operates in parallel to stability control. Many of the described actions of Usa1p are distinct from those of Der1p, which is recruited to the HRD complex by Usa1p. Thus, this novel, conserved factor is broadly involved in the function and regulation of the HRD pathway of ERAD.
Gene expression profiling identifies emerging oncogenic pathways operating in extranodal NK/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type.	Biopsies and cell lines of natural killer/T-cell lymphoma, nasal type (NKTCL) were subject to combined gene expression profiling and array-based comparative genomic hybridization analyses. Compared with peripheral T-cell lymphoma, not otherwise specified, NKTCL had greater transcript levels for NK-cell and cytotoxic molecules, especially granzyme H. Compared with normal NKcells, tumors were closer to activated than resting cells and overexpressed several genes related to vascular biology, Epstein-Barr Virus-induced genes, and PDGFRA. Notably, platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha and its phosphorylated form were confirmed at the protein level, and in vitro the MEC04 NKTCL cell line was sensitive to imatinib. Deregulation of the AKT, Janus kinase-signal transducers and activators of transcription, and nuclear factor-kappaB pathways was corroborated by nuclear expression of phosphorylated AKT, signal transducers and activators of transcription 3, and RelA in NKTCL, and several deregulated genes in these pathways mapped to regions of recurrent copy number aberrations (AKT3 [1q44], IL6R [1q21.3], CCL2 [17q12], TNFRSF21 [6p12.3]). Several features of NKTCL uncovered by this analysis suggest perturbation of angiogenic pathways. Integrative analysis also evidenced deregulation of the tumor suppressor HACE1 in the frequently deleted 6q21 region. This study highlights emerging oncogenic pathways in NKTCL and identifies novel diagnostic and therapeutic targets.
A novel type of E3 ligase for the Ufm1 conjugation system.	The ubiquitin fold modifier 1 (Ufm1) is the most recently discovered ubiquitin-like modifier whose conjugation (ufmylation) system is conserved in multicellular organisms. Ufm1 is known to covalently attach with cellular protein(s) via a specific E1-activating enzyme (Uba5) and an E2-conjugating enzyme (Ufc1), but its E3-ligating enzyme(s) as well as the target protein(s) remain unknown. Herein, we report both a novel E3 ligase for Ufm1, designated Ufl1, and an Ufm1-specific substrate ligated by Ufl1, C20orf116. Ufm1 was covalently conjugated with C20orf116. Although Ufl1 has no obvious sequence homology to any other known E3s for ubiquitin and ubiquitin-like modifiers, the C20orf116 x Ufm1 formation was greatly accelerated by Ufl1. The C20orf116 x Ufm1 conjugate was cleaved by Ufm1-specific proteases, implying the reversibility of ufmylation. The conjugation was abundant in the liver and lungs of Ufm1-transgenic mice, fractionated into membrane fraction, and impaired in Uba5 knock-out cells. Intriguingly, immunological analysis revealed localizations of Ufl1 and C20orf116 mainly to the endoplasmic reticulum. Our results provide novel insights into the Ufm1 system involved in cellular regulation of multicellular organisms.
The ubiquitin binding region of the Smurf HECT domain facilitates polyubiquitylation and binding of ubiquitylated substrates.	Mono- and polyubiquitylation of proteins are key steps in a wide range of biological processes. However, the molecular mechanisms that mediate these different events are poorly understood. Here, we employed NMR spectroscopy to map a non-covalent ubiquitin binding surface (UBS) on the Smurf ubiquitin ligase HECT domain. Analysis of mutants of the HECT UBS reveal that interfering with the UBS surface blocked Smurf-dependent degradation of its substrate RhoA in cells. In vitro analysis revealed that the UBS was not required for UbcH7-dependent charging of the HECT catalytic cysteine. Surprisingly, although the UBS was required for polyubiquitylation of both Smurf itself and the Smurf substrate RhoA, it was not required for monoubiquitylation. Furthermore, we show that mutating the UBS interfered with efficient binding of a monoubiquitylated form of RhoA to the Smurf HECT domain. Our findings suggest the UBS promotes polyubiquitylation by stabilizing ubiquitylated substrate binding to the HECT domain.
Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) encodes a SUMO E3 ligase that is SIM-dependent and SUMO-2/3-specific.	Sumoylation has emerged as a major post-translational modification of cellular proteins, affecting a variety of cellular processes. Viruses have exploited the sumoylation pathway to advance their own replication by evolving several ways to perturb the host sumoylation apparatus. However, there has been no report of virally encoded enzymes directly involved in catalyzing the sumoylation reaction. Here, we report that the K-bZIP protein encoded by Kaposi's sarcoma-associated herpesvirus (KSHV) is a SUMO E3 ligase with specificity toward SUMO2/3. K-bZIP is a nuclear factor that functions to modulate viral gene expression and to prolong the G1 phase, allowing viral transcription and translation to proceed at the early stage of infection. In addition to functioning as a transcriptional factor, we show that K-bZIP carries a SIM (SUMO-interacting motif), which specifically binds to SUMO-2/3 but not SUMO-1. K-bZIP catalyzes its own SUMO modification as well as that of its interacting partners such as the cellular tumor suppressor proteins p53 and Rb, both in vitro and in vivo. This reaction depends on an intact SIM. Sumoylation of p53 leads to its activation and K-bZIP is recruited to several p53 target chromatin sites in a SIM-dependent manner. In addition to the identification of a viral SUMO-2/3 E3 ligase, our results provide additional insights into the mechanisms whereby K-bZIP induces cell cycle arrest.
The COP9 signalosome and its role in plant development.	The COP9 signalosome (CSN) is an evolutionarily conserved multiprotein complex with a role in the regulation of cullin-RING type E3 ubiquitin ligases (CRLs). CSN exerts its function on E3 ligases by deconjugating the ubiquitin-related protein NEDD8 from the CRL cullin subunit. Thereby, CSN has an impact on multiple CRL-dependent processes. In recent years, advances have been made in understanding the structural organisation and biochemical function of CSN: Crystal structure analysis and mass spectrometry-assisted studies have come up with first models of the pair-wise and complex interactions of the 8 CSN subunits. Based on the analysis of mutant phenotypes, it can now be taken as an accepted fact that--at least in plants--the major biochemical function of CSN resides in its deneddylation activity, which is mediated by CSN subunit 5 (CSN5). Furthermore, it could be demonstrated that CSN function and deneddylation are required but not essential for CRL-mediated processes, and models for the role of neddylation and deneddylation in controlling CRL activity are emerging. Significant advances have also been made in identifying pathways that are growth restricting in the Arabidopsis csn mutants. Recently it has been shown that a G2 phase arrest, possibly due to genomic instability, restricts growth in Arabidopsis csn mutants. This review provides an update on recent advances in understanding CSN structure and function and summarises the current knowledge on its role in plant development and cell cycle progression.
Lysine 63-linked polyubiquitination of TAK1 at lysine 158 is required for tumor necrosis factor alpha- and interleukin-1beta-induced IKK/NF-kappaB and JNK/AP-1 activation.	Transforming growth factor-beta-activated kinase 1 (TAK1) plays an essential role in the tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha)- and interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta)-induced IkappaB kinase (IKK)/nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) and c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK)/activator protein 1 (AP-1) activation. Here we report that TNFalpha and IL-1beta induce Lys(63)-linked TAK1 polyubiquitination at the Lys(158) residue within the kinase domain. Tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factors 2 and 6 (TRAF2 and -6) act as the ubiquitin E3 ligases to mediate Lys(63)-linked TAK1 polyubiquitination at the Lys(158) residue in vivo and in vitro. Lys(63)-linked TAK1 polyubiquitination at the Lys(158) residue is required for TAK1-mediated IKK complex recruitment. Reconstitution of TAK1-deficient mouse embryo fibroblast cells with TAK1 wild type or a TAK1 mutant containing a K158R mutation revealed the importance of this site in TNFalpha and IL-1beta-mediated IKK/NF-kappaB and JNK/AP-1 activation as well as IL-6 gene expression. Our findings demonstrate that Lys(63)-linked polyubiquitination of TAK1 at Lys(158) is essential for its own kinase activation and its ability to mediate its downstream signal transduction pathways in response to TNFalpha and IL-1beta stimulation.
In vivo assessment of brain monoamine systems in parkin gene carriers: a PET study.	PET studies in parkin-linked parkinsonism have generally been performed to assess striatal dopaminergic dysfunction and very little is known about the involvement of other monoaminergic structures in these patients. Measurements of (18)F-dopa uptake into serotonergic and noradrenergic structures provide an indication of the functional integrity of these nerve terminals. We used (18)F-dopa PET to assess changes in brain monoaminergic function associated with parkin mutations. Twelve patients with parkin-linked parkinsonism and 12 asymptomatic parkin heterozygotes were included in the study. Eleven healthy controls, 12 patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD), and four patients with PINK1 mutations were also investigated for comparison. parkin patients and IPD patients were matched for striatal dopaminergic dysfunction, as measured by (18)F-dopa uptake. Compared to controls, parkin patients showed significant (18)F-dopa reductions in the caudate, putamen, ventral striatum, locus coeruleus, midbrain raphe, and pallidum. The same structures showed reduced uptake in IPD patients, who additionally had significant reductions in hypothalamus, ventral anterior thalamus, and pineal gland. Direct comparison of parkin with IPD patients showed that hypothalamus was targeted in IPD and midbrain raphe in parkin disease. Patients with PINK1 mutation and several parkin heterozygotes also showed monoaminergic dysfunction. These findings suggest that parkin patients and IPD patients with similar striatal dysfunction have different patterns of monoaminergic involvement, with more widespread dysfunction in IPD.
Uptake of genetic testing and long-term tumor surveillance in von Hippel-Lindau disease.	von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease is a hereditary cancer syndrome caused by germline mutations in the VHL gene. Patients have significant morbidity and mortality secondary to vascular tumors. Disease management is centered on tumor surveillance that allows early detection and treatment. Presymptomatic genetic testing is therefore recommended, including in at-risk children.
DELLA proteins restrain germination and elongation growth in Arabidopsis thaliana COP9 signalosome mutants.	The COP9 signalosome (CSN) is an evolutionarily conserved multiprotein complex with an essential role in the development of higher eukaryotes. CSN deconjugates the ubiquitin-related modifier NEDD8 from the cullin subunit of cullin-RING type E3 ubiquitin ligases (CRLs), and CSN-mediated cullin deneddylation is required for full CRL activity. Although several plant E3 CRL functions have been shown to be compromised in Arabidopsis csn mutants, none of these functions have so far been shown to limit growth in these mutants. Here, we examine the role of CSN in the context of the E3 ubiquitin ligase SCF(SLEEPY1 (SLY1)), which promotes gibberellic acid (GA)-dependent responses in Arabidopsis thaliana. We show that csn mutants are impaired in GA- and SCF(SLY1)-dependent germination and elongation growth, and we show that these defects correlate with an accumulation and reduced turnover of an SCF(SLY1)-degradation target, the DELLA protein REPRESSOR-OF-ga1-3 (RGA). Genetic interaction studies between csn mutants and loss-of-function alleles of RGA and its functional homologue GIBBERELLIC ACID INSENSITIVE (GAI) further reveal that RGA and GAI repress defects of germination in strong csn mutants. In addition, we find that these two DELLA proteins are largely responsible for the elongation defects of a weak csn5 mutant allele. We thus conclude that an impairment of SCF(SLY1) is at least in part causative for the germination and elongation defects of csn mutants, and suggest that DELLA proteins are major growth repressors in these mutants.
N-terminal acetylation of cellular proteins creates specific degradation signals.	The retained N-terminal methionine (Met) residue of a nascent protein is often N-terminally acetylated (Nt-acetylated). Removal of N-terminal Met by Met-aminopeptidases frequently leads to Nt-acetylation of the resulting N-terminal alanine (Ala), valine (Val), serine (Ser), threonine (Thr), and cysteine (Cys) residues. Although a majority of eukaryotic proteins (for example, more than 80% of human proteins) are cotranslationally Nt-acetylated, the function of this extensively studied modification is largely unknown. Using the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we found that the Nt-acetylated Met residue could act as a degradation signal (degron), targeted by the Doa10 ubiquitin ligase. Moreover, Doa10 also recognized the Nt-acetylated Ala, Val, Ser, Thr, and Cys residues. Several examined proteins of diverse functions contained these N-terminal degrons, termed AcN-degrons, which are a prevalent class of degradation signals in cellular proteins.
CRT-1/calreticulin and the E3 ligase EEL-1/HUWE1 control hemidesmosome maturation in C. elegans development.	Hemidesmosomes connect the extracellular matrix (ECM) to intermediate filaments through ECM receptors and plakins (plectin and BPAG1e). They affect tissue integrity, wound healing, and carcinoma invasion. Although biochemical and time-lapse studies indicate that alpha6beta4-integrin (ECM receptor) and plectin play a central role in modulating hemidesmosome disassembly, the mechanisms controlling hemidesmosome biogenesis in vivo remain poorly understood. The nematode C. elegans provides a powerful genetic model to address this issue. We performed a genome-wide RNA interference screen in C. elegans, searching for genes that decrease the viability of a weak VAB-10A/plakin mutant. We identified 14 genes that have human homologs with predicted roles in different cellular processes. We further characterized two genes encoding the chaperone CRT-1/calreticulin and the HECT domain E3 ubiquitin ligase EEL-1/HUWE1. CRT-1 controls by as little as 2-fold the abundance of UNC-52/perlecan, an essential hemidesmosome ECM ligand. Likewise, EEL-1 fine tunes by 2-fold the abundance of myotactin, the putative hemidesmosome ECM receptor. CRT-1 and EEL-1 activities, and by extension other genes identified in our screen, are essential during embryonic development to enable hemidesmosomes exposed to mechanical tension to mature into a tension-resistant form. Our findings should help understand how hemidesmosome dynamics are regulated in vertebrate systems.
Nedd4 branches out.	The branching of dendrites and axons is a key determinant of neural circuit formation. In this issue of Neuron, Kawabe et al. demonstrate that the ubiquitin ligase Nedd4 promotes the branching of developing dendrites by targeting the small G protein Rap2. In a complementary study, Drinjakovic et al. show that Nedd4 promotes the branching of developing axons by ubiquitinating a different target, the phosphatase PTEN.
E3 ligase Nedd4 promotes axon branching by downregulating PTEN.	Regulated protein degradation via the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) plays a central role in building synaptic connections, yet little is known about either which specific UPS components are involved or UPS targets in neurons. We report that inhibiting the UPS in developing Xenopus retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) with a dominant-negative ubiquitin mutant decreases terminal branching in the tectum but does not affect long-range navigation to the tectum. We identify Nedd4 as a prominently expressed E3 ligase in RGC axon growth cones and show that disrupting its function severely inhibits terminal branching. We further demonstrate that PTEN, a negative regulator of the PI3K pathway, is a key downstream target of Nedd4: not only does Nedd4 regulate PTEN levels in RGC growth cones, but also, the decrease of PTEN rescues the branching defect caused by Nedd4 inhibition. Together our data suggest that Nedd4-regulated PTEN is a key regulator of terminal arborization in vivo.
Clinical features and [11C]-CFT PET analysis of PARK2, PARK6, PARK7-linked autosomal recessive early onset Parkinsonism.	Mutations in the Parkin, PINK1, and DJ-1 genes can cause autosomal recessive early onset Parkinsonism. We studied three families with the mutations of the Parkin, PINK1 and DJ-1 genes, respectively, with a dopamine transporter ligand [(11)C]-CFT positron emission tomography. A marked bilaterally and dissymmetrically decrement of [(11)C]-CFT uptake was found in all these patients, and putamen as well as caudate nucleus was affected. We also found asymptomatic Parkin and PINK1 heterozygotes showed a mild but significant decrement in [(11)C]-CFT uptake, but this phenomenon was not found in the DJ-1-heterozygotes. Our results suggested the three autosomal recessive forms of early onset are similar to each other on pathophysiological grounds, a sub-clinical disease process in Parkin and PINK1-heterozygotes, but not in DJ-1-heterozygotes.
C-terminus of heat shock cognate 70 interacting protein increases following stroke and impairs survival against acute oxidative stress.	The decision to remove or refold oxidized, denatured, or misfolded proteins by heat shock protein 70 and its binding partners is critical to determine cell fate under pathophysiological conditions. Overexpression of the ubiquitin ligase C-terminus of HSC70 interacting protein (CHIP) can compensate for failure of other ubiquitin ligases and enhance protein turnover and survival under chronic neurological stress. The ability of CHIP to alter cell fate after acute neurological injury has not been assessed. Using postmortem human tissue samples, we provide the first evidence that cortical CHIP expression is increased after ischemic stroke. Oxygen glucose deprivation in vitro led to rapid protein oxidation, antioxidant depletion, proteasome dysfunction, and a significant increase in CHIP expression. To determine if CHIP upregulation enhances neural survival, we overexpressed CHIP in vitro and evaluated cell fate 24h after acute oxidative stress. Surprisingly, CHIP overexpressing cells fared worse against oxidative injury, accumulated more ubiquitinated and oxidized proteins, and experienced decreased proteasome activity. Conversely, using small interfering RNA to decrease CHIP expression in primary neuronal cultures improved survival after oxidative stress, suggesting that increases in CHIP observed after stroke like injuries are likely correlated with diminished survival and may negatively impact the neuroprotective potential of heat shock protein 70.
Neurophysiological evaluation of motor corticospinal pathways by TMS in idiopathic early-onset Parkinson's disease.	In a previous study we found altered motor corticospinal conduction in patients with early-onset Parkinson's disease (EOPD) and parkin gene mutations (PARK2). Aim of the present study was to evaluate central motor conduction in patients with EOPD, negative for parkin mutations to establish if prolonged CMCT is specific of PARK2 or it may be present in other EOPD patients.
c9t11-Conjugated linoleic acid-rich oil fails to attenuate wasting in colon-26 tumor-induced late-stage cancer cachexia in male CD2F1 mice.	Cancer cachexia is characterized by muscle and adipose tissue wasting caused partly by chronic, systemic inflammation. Conjugated linoleic acids (CLAs) are a group of fatty acids with various properties including anti-inflammatory cis9, trans11 (c9t11)-CLA and lipid-mobilizing trans10, cis12 (t10c12)-CLA. The purpose of this study was to test whether dietary supplementation of a c9t11-CLA-rich oil (6:1 c9t11:t10c12) could attenuate wasting of muscle and adipose tissue in colon-26 adenocarcinoma-induced cachexia in mice.
The ubiquitin ligase adaptor Ndfip1 regulates T cell-mediated gastrointestinal inflammation and inflammatory bowel disease susceptibility.	Nedd4 family interacting protein 1 (Ndfip1) is an adaptor protein that regulates Itch, an E3 ubiquitin ligase that ubiquitylates JunB, thereby preventing interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-5 production. Mice lacking Ndfip1 or Itch develop T helper type 2 (T(H)2)-mediated inflammation in the skin and lungs and die prematurely. In this study we show that Ndfip1-/- mice also develop inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. Inflammation is characterized by infiltration of eosinophils and T cells and is accompanied by a failure to gain weight. T cells are both necessary and sufficient for eosinophil recruitment and inflammation. This is because Ndfip1-/- T cells become activated and produce IL-5. Itch mutant mice develop much less severe gastrointestinal inflammation, suggesting that Ndfip1 regulation of Itch cannot entirely account for this phenotype and that Ndfip1 has both Itch-dependent and Itch-independent roles. Ndfip1 may also regulate human disease. We found single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the Ndfip1 locus that associate with inflammatory bowel disease. Taken together, our data support a role for Ndfip1 in gastrointestinal inflammation in both mice and humans.
A genome-wide association study identifies RNF213 as the first Moyamoya disease gene.	Moyamoya disease (MMD) shows progressive cerebral angiopathy characterized by bilateral internal carotid artery stenosis and abnormal collateral vessels. Although  15% of MMD cases are familial, the MMD gene(s) remain unknown. A genome-wide association study of 785,720 single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) was performed, comparing 72 Japanese MMD patients with 45 Japanese controls and resulting in a strong association of chromosome 17q25-ter with MMD risk. This result was further confirmed by a locus-specific association study using 335 SNPs in the 17q25-ter region. A single haplotype consisting of seven SNPs at the RNF213 locus was tightly associated with MMD (P = 5.3  10(-10)). RNF213 encodes a really interesting new gene finger protein with an AAA ATPase domain and is abundantly expressed in spleen and leukocytes. An RNA in situ hybridization analysis of mouse tissues indicated that mature lymphocytes express higher levels of Rnf213 mRNA than their immature counterparts. Mutational analysis of RNF213 revealed a founder mutation, p.R4859K, in 95% of MMD families, 73% of non-familial MMD cases and 1.4% of controls; this mutation greatly increases the risk of MMD (P = 1.2  10(-43), odds ratio = 190.8, 95% confidence interval = 71.7-507.9). Three additional missense mutations were identified in the p.R4859K-negative patients. These results indicate that RNF213 is the first identified susceptibility gene for MMD.
Further analysis of XBAT32, an Arabidopsis RING E3 ligase, involved in ethylene biosynthesis.	The Arabidopsis RING E3 ligase, XBAT32, was previously characterized as a regulator of lateral root initiation. However, how XBAT32 function to modulate lateral root initiation was unknown. In our recent paper, we demonstrated that XBAT32 is involved in ethylene biosynthesis and it is through this function that XBAT32 is able to regulate lateral root production. Here we discuss a few other findings, observed in the ethylene overproducing mutant, xbat32, that reflect the effect of elevated ethylene levels on plant growth and development. Ethylene signaling also regulates plant responses to adverse environmental conditions such as high salinity. Consistent with ethylene's role as a stress hormone, xbat32 exhibited increased sensitivity to salt stress during seed germination and postgerminative growth. Thus, XBAT32 may also play a role in ethylene mediated response to abiotic stresses.
Intracellular ubiquitylation of the epithelial Na+ channel controls extracellular proteolytic channel activation via conformational change.	The epithelial Na(+) channel ENaC is a key player in the maintenance of whole body Na(+) balance, and consequently of blood pressure. It is tightly regulated by numerous signaling pathways including ubiquitylation via the ubiquitin-protein ligase Nedd4-2. This mechanism is itself under the control of several kinases, which phosphorylate Nedd4-2, thereby interfering with ENaC/Nedd4-2 interaction, or by Usp2-45, which binds to and deubiquitylates ENaC. Another, different regulatory mechanism concerns the proteolytic activation of ENaC, during which the channel is cleaved on its luminal side by intracellular convertases such as furin, and further activated by extracellular proteases such as CAP-1. This process is regulated as well but the underlying mechanisms are not understood. Previously, evidence was provided that the ubiquitylation status of ENaC may affect the cleavage of the channel. When ubiquitylation of ENaC was reduced, either by co-expressing Usp2-45, or mutating either the ENaC PY-motifs (i.e. the binding sites for Nedd4-2) or intracellular lysines (i.e. ubiquitylation sites), the level of channel cleavage was increased. Here we demonstrate that lysine-mutated ENaC channels are not ubiquitylated at the cell surface, are preferentially cleaved, and Usp2-45 does not affect their cleavage efficiency. We further show by limited proteolysis that the intracellular ubiquitylation status of ENaC affects the extracellular conformation of ENaC, by demonstrating that non-ubiquitylated channels are more efficiently cleaved when treated with extracellularly added trypsin or chymotrypsin. These results present a new paradigm in which an intracellular, post-translational modification (e.g. ubiquitylation) of a transmembrane protein can affect its extracellular conformation.
A mutation in the RNF170 gene causes autosomal dominant sensory ataxia.	Autosomal dominant sensory ataxia is a rare genetic condition that results in a progressive ataxia that is caused by degeneration of the posterior columns of the spinal cord. To date only two families have been clinically ascertained with this condition, both from Maritime Canada. We previously mapped both families to chromosome 8p12-8q12 and have now screened the majority of annotated protein-coding genes in the shared haplotype region by direct DNA sequencing. We have identified a putative pathogenic mutation in the gene encoding ring-finger protein RNF170, a potential ubiquitin ligase. This mutation is a rare non-synonymous change in a well-conserved residue and is predicted to be pathogenic by SIFT, PolyPhen, PANTHER and Align-GVD. Microinjection of wild-type or mutant orthologous messenger RNAs into zebrafish (Danio rerio) embryos confirmed that the mutation dominantly disrupts normal embryonic development. Together these results suggest that the mutation in RNF170 is causal for the sensory ataxia in these families.
The adenovirus E1b55K/E4orf6 complex induces degradation of the Bloom helicase during infection.	The adenovirus (Ad) E1b55K and E4orf6 gene products assemble an E3 ubiquitin ligase complex that promotes degradation of cellular proteins. Among the known substrates are p53 and the Mre11-Rad50-Nbs1 (MRN) complex. Since members of the RecQ helicase family function together with MRN in genome maintenance, we investigated whether adenovirus affects RecQ proteins. We show that Bloom helicase (BLM) is degraded during adenovirus type 5 (Ad5) infection. BLM degradation is mediated by E1b55K/E4orf6 but is independent of MRN. We detected BLM localized at discrete foci around viral replication centers. These studies identify BLM as a new substrate for degradation by the adenovirus E1b55K/E4orf6 complex.
To eat or not to eat: neuronal metabolism, mitophagy, and Parkinson's disease.	Neurons are exquisitely dependent upon mitochondrial respiration to support energy-demanding functions. Mechanisms that regulate mitochondrial quality control have recently taken center stage in Parkinson's disease research, particularly the selective degradation of mitochondria by autophagy (mitophagy). Unlike other cells, neurons show limited glycolytic potential, and both insufficient and excessive mitophagy have been linked to neurodegeneration. Kinases implicated in regulating mammalian mitophagy include extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases (ERK1/2) and PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1). Increased expression of full-length PINK1 enhances recruitment of parkin to chemically depolarized mitochondria, resulting in rapid mitochondrial clearance in transformed cell lines. As parkin and PINK1 mutations cause autosomal recessive parkinsonism, potential defects in clearing dysfunctional mitochondria may contribute to mitochondrial abnormalities in disease. Given the unique features of metabolic regulation in neurons, however, mechanisms regulating mitochondrial network stability and the threshold for mitophagy are likely to vary from cells that preferentially utilize aerobic glycolysis. Moreover, removal of the entire mitochondrial complement may represent part of a neuronal cell death pathway. Future work utilizing physiological injuries that affect only a subset of mitochondria would help to elucidate whether defective recognition of damaged mitochondria, or alternatively, inability to maintain or generate healthy mitochondria, play the major roles in parkinsonian neurodegeneration.
Bioenergetics of neurons inhibit the translocation response of Parkin following rapid mitochondrial depolarization.	Recent studies delineate a pathway involving familial Parkinson's disease (PD)-related proteins PINK1 and Parkin, in which PINK1-dependent mitochondrial accumulation of Parkin targets depolarized mitochondria towards degradation through mitophagy. The pathway has been primarily characterized in cells less dependent on mitochondria for energy production than neurons. Here we report that in neurons, unlike other cells, mitochondrial depolarization by carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenyl hydrazone did not induce Parkin translocation to mitochondria or mitophagy. PINK1 overexpression increased basal Parkin accumulation on neuronal mitochondria, but did not sensitize them to depolarization-induced Parkin translocation. Our data suggest that bioenergetic differences between neurons and cultured cell lines contribute to these different responses. In HeLa cells utilizing usual glycolytic metabolism, mitochondrial depolarization robustly triggered Parkin-mitochondrial translocation, but this did not occur in HeLa cells forced into dependence on mitochondrial respiration. Declining ATP levels after mitochondrial depolarization correlated with the absence of induced Parkin-mitochondrial translocation in both HeLa cells and neurons. However, intervention allowing neurons to maintain ATP levels after mitochondrial depolarization only modestly increased Parkin recruitment to mitochondria, without evidence of increased mitophagy. These data suggest that changes in ATP levels are not the sole determinant of the different responses between neurons and other cell types, and imply that additional mechanisms regulate mitophagy in neurons. Since the Parkin-mitophagy pathway is heavily dependent on bioenergetic status, the unique metabolic properties of neurons likely influence the function of this pathway in the pathogenesis of PD.
TOPORS, implicated in retinal degeneration, is a cilia-centrosomal protein.	We recently reported that mutations in the widely expressed nuclear protein TOPORS (topoisomerase I-binding arginine/serine rich) are associated with autosomal dominant retinal degeneration. However, the precise localization and a functional role of TOPORS in the retina remain unknown. Here, we demonstrate that TOPORS is a novel component of the photoreceptor sensory cilium, which is a modified primary cilium involved with polarized trafficking of proteins. In photoreceptors, TOPORS localizes primarily to the basal bodies of connecting cilium and in the centrosomes of cultured cells. Morpholino-mediated silencing of topors in zebrafish embryos demonstrates in another species a comparable retinal problem as seen in humans, resulting in defective retinal development and failure to form outer segments. These defects can be rescued by mRNA encoding human TOPORS. Taken together, our data suggest that TOPORS may play a key role in regulating primary cilia-dependent photoreceptor development and function. Additionally, it is well known that mutations in other ciliary proteins cause retinal degeneration, which may explain why mutations in TOPORS result in the same phenotype.
Targeting mitochondrial dysfunction: role for PINK1 and Parkin in mitochondrial quality control.	Mitochondria, which convert energy for the cell, accumulate damage with age, and the resulting mitochondrial dysfunction has been linked to the development of degenerative diseases and aging. To curb the accumulation of damaged mitochondria, the cell has elaborated a number of mitochondrial quality control processes. We describe recent work suggesting that Parkin and PTEN-induced putative kinase 1 (PINK1), two gene products linked to familial forms of parkinsonism, may constitute one of the cell's mitochondrial quality control pathways-identifying impaired mitochondria and selectively trimming them from the mitochondrial network by mitophagy. In particular, we discuss the regulation of PINK1 protein expression and Parkin localization by the bioenergetic status of individual mitochondria; the mechanism by which PINK1 recruits Parkin to the outer mitochondrial membrane; and Parkin's promotion of mitophagy through its ubiquitination of outer mitochondrial membrane proteins. This recent work suggests that Parkin and PINK1 may be among the first mammalian proteins identified with a direct role in regulating mitophagy, and implicate a failure of mitophagy in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
Identification of genes differentially expressed during interaction of Mexican lime tree infected with "Candidatus Phytoplasma aurantifolia".	"Candidatus Phytoplasma aurantifolia", is the causative agent of witches' broom disease in Mexican lime trees (Citrus aurantifolia L.), and is responsible for major losses of Mexican lime trees in Southern Iran and Oman. The pathogen is strictly biotrophic, and thus is completely dependent on living host cells for its survival. The molecular basis of compatibility and disease development in this system is poorly understood. Therefore, we have applied a cDNA- amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP) approach to analyze gene expression in Mexican lime trees infected by "Ca. Phytoplasma aurantifolia".
Olfaction in Parkin heterozygotes and compound heterozygotes: the CORE-PD study.	While Parkinson disease (PD) is consistently associated with impaired olfaction, one study reported better olfaction among Parkin mutation carriers than noncarriers. Whether olfaction differs between Parkin mutation heterozygotes and carriers of 2 Parkin mutations (compound heterozygotes) is unknown.
CRL4Cdt2: master coordinator of cell cycle progression and genome stability.	Polyubiquitin-mediated degradation of proteins plays an essential role in various physiological processes including cell cycle progression, transcription and DNA replication and repair. Increasing evidence supports a vital role for the E3 ubiquitin ligase cullin-4, in conjunction with the substrate recognition factor Cdt2 (CRL4Cdt2), for the degradation of multiple cell cycle-regulated proteins to prevent genomic instability. In addition, it is critical for normal cell cycle progression by ensuring the timely destruction of various cell cycle proteins whose deregulated expression impairs cell cycle progression. Here, we summarize our current knowledge about the various roles of the CRL4Cdt2 E3 ubiquitin ligase, and how its activity contributes both to the preservation of genome integrity and to normal cell cycle progression, and how its deregulation may contribute to human cancer.
Normal social seeking behavior, hypoactivity and reduced exploratory range in a mouse model of Angelman syndrome.	Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurogenetic disorder characterized by severe developmental delay with mental retardation, a generally happy disposition, ataxia and characteristic behaviors such as inappropriate laughter, social-seeking behavior and hyperactivity. The majority of AS cases are due to loss of the maternal copy of the UBE3A gene. Maternal Ube3a deficiency (Ube3a m-/p+), as well as complete loss of Ube3a expression (Ube3a m-/p-), have been reproduced in the mouse model used here.
The Stil protein regulates centrosome integrity and mitosis through suppression of Chfr.	Stil (Sil, SCL/TAL1 interrupting locus) is a cytosolic and centrosomal protein expressed in proliferating cells that is required for mouse and zebrafish neural development and is mutated in familial microcephaly. Recently the Drosophila melanogaster ortholog of Stil was found to be important for centriole duplication. Consistent with this finding, we report here that mouse embryonic fibroblasts lacking Stil are characterized by slow growth, low mitotic index and absence of clear centrosomes. We hypothesized that Stil regulates mitosis through the tumor suppressor Chfr, an E3 ligase that blocks mitotic entry in response to mitotic stress. Mouse fibroblasts lacking Stil by genomic or RNA interference approaches, as well as E9.5 Stil(-/-) embryos, express high levels of the Chfr protein and reduced levels of the Chfr substrate Plk1. Exogenous expression of Stil, knockdown of Chfr or overexpression of Plk1 reverse the abnormal mitotic phenotypes of fibroblasts lacking Stil. We further demonstrate that Stil increases Chfr auto-ubiquitination and reduces its protein stability. Thus, Stil is required for centrosome organization, entry into mitosis and cell proliferation, and these functions are at least partially mediated by Chfr and its targets. This is the first identification of a negative regulator of the Chfr mitotic checkpoint.
Phosphorylation of E3 ligase Smurf1 switches its substrate preference in support of axon development.	Ubiquitin E3 ligases serve for ubiquitination of specific substrates, and its ligase efficacy is regulated by interacting proteins or substrate modifications. Whether and how the ligases themselves are modified by cellular signaling is unclear. Here we report that protein kinase A (PKA)-dependent phosphorylation of Smad Ubiquitin Regulatory Factor 1 (Smurf1) can switch its substrate preference between two proteins of opposing actions on axon development. Extracellular factors that promote axon formation elevated Smurf1 phosphorylation at a PKA site Thr, and preventing this phosphorylation reduced axon formation in cultured hippocampal neurons and impaired polarization of cortical neurons in vivo. Thr-phosphorylation changed the relative affinities of Smurf1 for its substrates, leading to reduced degradation of polarity protein Par6 and increased degradation of growth-inhibiting RhoA. Thus, PKA-dependent phosphorylation of the E3 ligase could switch its substrate preference, contributing to selective protein degradation required for localized cellular function.
Gambogic acid-induced degradation of mutant p53 is mediated by proteasome and related to CHIP.	As an oncoprotein, mutant p53 is a potential tumor-specific target for cancer therapy. Most mutated forms of the protein are largely accumulated in cancer cells due to their increased stability. In the present study, we demonstrate that mutant p53 protein stability is regulated by gambogic acid (GA). Following GA exposure, protein levels of mutant p53 decreased while the mRNA levels were not affected in MDA-MB-435 cells, which indicate that GA down-regulates mutant p53 at post-transcription level. Co-treatment with GA and cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor, induced a decrease of half-life of mutant p53 protein. These findings indicated that the reduction of mutant p53 by GA was due to the destabilization and degradation of the protein. Furthermore, inhibition of proteasome activity by MG132 blocked GA-induced down-regulation of mutant p53, causing mutant p53 accumulation in detergent-insoluble cellular fractions. Further studies revealed that mutant p53 was ubiquitinated and it was chaperones related ubiquitin ligase carboxy terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein (CHIP) rather than MDM2 involved in the degradation of mutant p53. In addition, GA prevented Hsp90/mutant p53 complex formation and enhanced interaction of mutant p53 with Hsp70. Depletion of CHIP stabilized mutant p53 in GA treated cells. In conclusion, mutant p53 may be down-regulated by GA through chaperones-assisted ubiquitin/proteasome degradation pathway in cancer cells.
Targeted disruption of the idol gene alters cellular regulation of the low-density lipoprotein receptor by sterols and liver x receptor agonists.	Previously, we identified the E3 ubiquitin ligase Idol (inducible degrader of the low-density lipoprotein [LDL] receptor [LDLR]) as a posttranscriptional regulator of the LDLR pathway. Idol stimulates LDLR degradation through ubiquitination of its C-terminal domain, thereby limiting cholesterol uptake. Here we report the generation and characterization of mouse embryonic stem cells homozygous for a null mutation in the Idol gene. Cells lacking Idol exhibit markedly elevated levels of the LDLR protein and increased rates of LDL uptake. Furthermore, despite an intact sterol responsive element-binding protein (SREBP) pathway, Idol-null cells exhibit an altered response to multiple regulators of sterol metabolism, including serum, oxysterols, and synthetic liver X receptor (LXR) agonists. The ability of oxysterols and lipoprotein-containing serum to suppress LDLR protein levels is reduced, and the time course of suppression is delayed, in cells lacking Idol. LXR ligands have no effect on LDLR levels in Idol-null cells, indicating that Idol is required for LXR-dependent inhibition of the LDLR pathway. In line with these results, the half-life of the LDLR protein is prolonged in the absence of Idol. Finally, the ability of statins and PCSK9 to alter LDLR levels is independent of, and additive with, the LXR-Idol pathway. These results demonstrate that the LXR-Idol pathway is an important contributor to feedback inhibition of the LDLR by sterols and a biological determinant of cellular LDL uptake.
PARK2 copy number aberrations in two children presenting with autism spectrum disorder: further support of an association and possible evidence for a new microdeletion/microduplication syndrome.	Microdeletions of PARK2 have been reported previously in seven patients with autism spectrum disorder. There are no reports of PARK2 microduplications in this population. Presented are two patients, one with deletion and the other with duplication, both with autism spectrum disorder, though their syndromic phenotypes vary. The deletion patient is cognitively normal and ectomorphic: the duplication patient is cognitively impaired, underweight and short. Further, the microduplication patient has demonstrated adverse medication reactions to psychotropic medications active in the dopamine metabolic pathway: cyclopentolate, lisdexamfetamine, methylphenidate. These patients support an association between PARK2 mutations and autism spectrum disorder and suggest that duplications may be equally causative. It is hypothesized that the disparate patient phenotypes may represent a deletion/duplication syndrome and that the adverse medication reactions may be a pharmacogenetic phenomenon.
The parkin mutant phenotype in the fly is largely rescued by metal-responsive transcription factor (MTF-1).	The gene for Parkin, an E3 ubiquitin ligase, is mutated in some familial forms of Parkinson's disease, a severe neurodegenerative disorder. A homozygous mutant of the Drosophila ortholog of human parkin is viable but results in severe motoric impairment including an inability to fly, female and male sterility, and a decreased life span. We show here that a double mutant of the genes for Parkin and the metal-responsive transcription factor 1 (MTF-1) is not viable. MTF-1, which is conserved from insects to mammals, is a key regulator of heavy metal homeostasis and detoxification and plays additional roles in other stress conditions, notably oxidative stress. In contrast to the synthetic lethality of the double mutant, elevated expression of MTF-1 dramatically ameliorates the parkin mutant phenotype, as evidenced by a prolonged life span, motoric improvement including short flight episodes, and female fertility. At the cellular level, muscle and mitochondrial structures are substantially improved. A beneficial effect is also seen with a transgene encoding human MTF-1. We propose that Parkin and MTF-1 provide complementary functions in metal homeostasis, oxidative stress and other cellular stress responses. Our findings also raise the possibility that MTF-1 gene polymorphisms in humans could affect the severity of Parkinson's disease.
SHPRH and HLTF act in a damage-specific manner to coordinate different forms of postreplication repair and prevent mutagenesis.	Postreplication repair (PRR) pathways play important roles in restarting stalled replication forks and regulating mutagenesis. In yeast, Rad5-mediated damage avoidance and Rad18-mediated translesion synthesis (TLS) are two forms of PRR. Two Rad5-related proteins, SHPRH and HLTF, have been identified in mammalian cells, but their specific roles in PRR are unclear. Here, we show that HLTF and SHPRH suppress mutagenesis in a damage-specific manner, preventing mutations induced by UV and MMS, respectively. Following UV, HLTF enhances PCNA monoubiquitination and recruitment of TLS polymerase , while also inhibiting SHPRH function. In contrast, MMS promotes the degradation of HLTF and the interactions of SHPRH with Rad18 and polymerase . Our data suggest not only that cells differentially utilize HLTF and SHPRH for different forms of DNA damage, but also, surprisingly, that HLTF and SHPRH may coordinate the two main branches of PRR to choose the proper bypass mechanism for minimizing mutagenesis.
Give me a break, but not in mitosis: the mitotic DNA damage response marks DNA double-strand breaks with early signaling events.	: DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) are extremely cytotoxic with a single unrepaired DSB being sufficient to induce cell death. A complex signalling cascade, termed the DNA damage response (DDR), is in place to deal with such DNA lesions and maintain genome stability. Recent work by us and others has found that the signalling cascade activated by DSBs in mitosis is truncated, displaying apical, but not downstream, components of the DDR. The E3 Ubiquitin ligases RNF8, RNF168 and BRCA1, along with the DDR mediator 53BP1, are not recruited to DSB sites in mitosis, and activation of downstream checkpoint kinases is also impaired. Here, we show that RNF8 and RNF168 are recruited to DNA damage foci in late mitosis, presumably to prime sites for 53BP1 recruitment in early G1. Interestingly, we show that, although RNF8, RNF168 and 53BP1 are excluded from DSB sites during most of mitosis, they associate with mitotic structures such as the kinetochore, suggesting roles for these DDR factors during mitotic cell division. We discuss these and other recent findings and suggest how these novel data collectively contribute to our understanding of mitosis and how cells deal with DNA damage during this crucial cell cycle stage.
The E3 ligase Itch is a negative regulator of the homeostasis and function of hematopoietic stem cells.	Although hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) are the most thoroughly characterized type of adult stem cell, the intricate molecular machinery that regulates their self-renewal properties remains elusive. Here we showed that the E3 ubiquitin ligase Itch negatively regulated the development and function of HSCs. Itch(-/-) mice had HSCs with enhanced frequency, competence and long-term repopulating activity. Itch-deficient HSCs showed accelerated proliferation rates and sustained progenitor properties, as well as more signaling by the transcription factor Notch1, due to more accumulation of activated Notch1. Knockdown of Notch1 in Itch-mutant HSCs resulted in reversion of the phenotype. Thus, we identify Itch as a previously unknown negative regulator of HSC homeostasis and function.
Yeast SREBP cleavage activation requires the Golgi Dsc E3 ligase complex.	Mammalian lipid homeostasis requires proteolytic activation of membrane-bound sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) transcription factors through sequential action of the Golgi Site-1 and Site-2 proteases. Here we report that while SREBP function is conserved in fungi, fission yeast employs a different mechanism for SREBP cleavage. Using genetics and biochemistry, we identified four genes defective for SREBP cleavage, dsc1-4, encoding components of a transmembrane Golgi E3 ligase complex with structural homology to the Hrd1 E3 ligase complex involved in endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation. The Dsc complex binds SREBP and cleavage requires components of the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway: the E2-conjugating enzyme Ubc4, the Dsc1 RING E3 ligase, and the proteasome. dsc mutants display conserved aggravating genetic interactions with components of the multivesicular body pathway in fission yeast and budding yeast, which lacks SREBP. Together, these data suggest that the Golgi Dsc E3 ligase complex functions in a post-ER pathway for protein degradation.
Phenotype of the 202 adenine deletion in the parkin gene: 40 years of follow-up.	We describe the four decades follow-up of 14 parkin patients belonging to two large eight-generation-long in-bred Muslim-Arab kindreds.
Mitochondrial Parkin recruitment is impaired in neurons derived from mutant PINK1 induced pluripotent stem cells.	Genetic Parkinson disease (PD) has been associated with mutations in PINK1, a gene encoding a mitochondrial kinase implicated in the regulation of mitochondrial degradation. While the studies so far examined PINK1 function in non-neuronal systems or through PINK1 knockdown approaches, there is an imperative to examine the role of endogenous PINK1 in appropriate human-derived and biologically relevant cell models. Here we report the generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells from skin fibroblasts taken from three PD patients with nonsense (c.1366C>T; p.Q456X) or missense (c.509T>G; p.V170G) mutations in the PINK1 gene. These cells were differentiated into dopaminergic neurons that upon mitochondrial depolarization showed impaired recruitment of lentivirally expressed Parkin to mitochondria, increased mitochondrial copy number, and upregulation of PGC-1, an important regulator of mitochondrial biogenesis. Importantly, these alterations were corrected by lentiviral expression of wild-type PINK1 in mutant iPS cell-derived PINK1 neurons. In conclusion, our studies suggest that fibroblasts from genetic PD can be reprogrammed and differentiated into neurons. These neurons exhibit distinct phenotypes that should be amenable to further mechanistic studies in this relevant biological context.
TRIM5 is an innate immune sensor for the retrovirus capsid lattice.	TRIM5 is a RING domain-E3 ubiquitin ligase that restricts infection by human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 and other retroviruses immediately following virus invasion of the target cell cytoplasm. Antiviral potency correlates with TRIM5 avidity for the retrovirion capsid lattice and several reports indicate that TRIM5 has a role in signal transduction, but the precise mechanism of restriction is unknown. Here we demonstrate that TRIM5 promotes innate immune signalling and that this activity is amplified by retroviral infection and interaction with the capsid lattice. Acting with the heterodimeric, ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme UBC13-UEV1A (also known as UBE2N-UBE2V1), TRIM5 catalyses the synthesis of unattached K63-linked ubiquitin chains that activate the TAK1 (also known as MAP3K7) kinase complex and stimulate AP-1 and NFB signalling. Interaction with the HIV-1 capsid lattice greatly enhances the UBC13-UEV1A-dependent E3 activity of TRIM5 and challenge with retroviruses induces the transcription of AP-1 and NF-B-dependent factors with a magnitude that tracks with TRIM5 avidity for the invading capsid. Finally, TAK1 and UBC13-UEV1A contribute to capsid-specific restriction by TRIM5. Thus, the retroviral restriction factor TRIM5 has two additional activities that are linked to restriction: it constitutively promotes innate immune signalling and it acts as a pattern recognition receptor specific for the retrovirus capsid lattice.
Establishment of the first WHO international genetic reference panel for Prader Willi and Angelman syndromes.	Prader Willi and Angelman syndromes are clinically distinct genetic disorders both mapping to chromosome region 15q11-q13, which are caused by a loss of function of paternally or maternally inherited genes in the region, respectively. With clinical diagnosis often being difficult, particularly in infancy, confirmatory genetic diagnosis is essential to enable clinical intervention. However, the latter is challenged by the complex genetics behind both disorders and the unmet need for characterised reference materials to aid accurate molecular diagnosis. With this in mind, a panel of six genotyping reference materials for Prader Willi and Angelman syndromes was developed, which should be stable for many years and available to all diagnostic laboratories. The panel comprises three Prader Willi syndrome materials (two with different paternal deletions, and one with maternal uniparental disomy (UPD)) and three Angelman syndrome materials (one with a maternal deletion, one with paternal UPD or an epigenetic imprinting centre defect, and one with a UBE3A point mutation). Genomic DNA was bulk-extracted from Epstein-Barr virus-transformed lymphoblastoid cell lines established from consenting patients, and freeze-dried as aliquots in glass ampoules. In total, 37 laboratories from 26 countries participated in a collaborative study to assess the suitability of the panel. Participants evaluated the blinded, triplicate materials using their routine diagnostic methods against in-house controls or externally sourced uncertified reference materials. The panel was established by the Expert Committee on Biological Standardization of the World Health Organization as the first International Genetic Reference Panel for Prader Willi and Angelman syndromes.
A phosphodegron controls nutrient-induced proteasomal activation of the signaling protease Ssy5.	Regulated proteolysis serves as a mechanism to control cellular processes. The SPS (Ssy1-Ptr3-Ssy5) sensor in yeast responds to extracellular amino acids by endoproteolytically activating transcription factors Stp1 and Stp2 (Stp1/2). The processing endoprotease Ssy5 is regulated via proteasomal degradation of its noncovalently associated N-terminal prodomain. We find that degradation of the prodomain requires a conserved phosphodegron comprising phosphoacceptor sites and ubiquitin-accepting lysine residues. Upon amino acid induction, the phosphodegron is modified in a series of linked events by a set of general regulatory factors involved in diverse signaling pathways. First, an amino acid-induced conformational change triggers phosphodegron phosphorylation by the constitutively active plasma membrane-localized casein kinase I (Yck1/2). Next the prodomain becomes a substrate for polyubiquitylation by the Skp1/Cullin/Grr1 E3 ubiquitin ligase complex (SCF(Grr1)). Finally, the modified prodomain is concomitantly degraded by the 26S proteasome. These integrated events are requisite for unfettering the Ssy5 endoprotease, and thus Stp1/2 processing. The Ssy5 phosphoacceptor motif resembles the Yck1/2- and Grr1-dependent degrons of regulators in the Snf3/Rgt2 glucose-sensing pathway. Our work defines a novel proteolytic activation cascade that regulates an intracellular signaling protease and illustrates how general signaling components are recruited to distinct pathways that achieve conditional and specific signaling outputs.
I-mfa domain proteins specifically interact with SERTA domain proteins and repress their transactivating functions.	The I-mfa domain proteins I-mfa and HIC are considered to be candidate tumor suppressor genes and have been shown to be involved in transcriptional regulation. We show here that I-mfa and HIC specifically interact with SEI-1 through their C-terminal I-mfa domains invivo. This interaction affects the intracellular localization of I-mfa and requires the region of SEI-1 between 30 and 90 amino acids, which includes its SERTA domain, and results in repression of its intrinsic transcriptional activity. I-mfa also decreases the levels of the SEI-1DP-1 complex and endogenous Fbxw7 mRNA, the expression of which is coregulated by E2FDP-1 and SEI-1 in an interaction-dependent manner invitro. In addition, I-mfa also specifically interacts with other SERTA domain-containing proteins, including SEI-2, SEI-3, SERTAD3 and SERTAD4, through its I-mfa domain invivo. This interaction also affects the intracellular localization of I-mfa and represses the intrinsic transcriptional activities of SEI-2 and SERTAD3, which are also involved in the E2F-dependent transcription. These data reveal for the first time that I-mfa domain proteins interact with SERTA domain proteins and negatively regulate their transcriptional activity. Because SEI-1, SEI-2 and SERTAD3, whose intrinsic transcriptional activities are repressed by I-mfa, are suggested to be oncogenes, I-mfa domain proteins may be involved in their oncogenic functions by negatively regulating their transcriptional activities.
Modulation of Tcf3 repressor complex composition regulates cdx4 expression in zebrafish.	The caudal homeobox (cdx) gene family is critical for specification of caudal body formation and erythropoiesis. In zebrafish, cdx4 expression is controlled by the Wnt pathway, but the molecular mechanism of this regulation is not fully understood. Here, we provide evidence that Tcf3 suppresses cdx4 expression through direct binding to multiple sites in the cdx4 gene regulatory region. Tcf3 requires corepressor molecules such as Groucho (Gro)/TLE and HDAC1 for activity. Using zebrafish embryos and cultured mammalian cells, we show that the transcription factor E4f1 derepresses cdx4 by dissociating corepressor proteins from Tcf3 without inhibiting its binding to cis-regulatory sites in the DNA. Further, the E3 ubiquitin ligase Lnx2b, acting as a scaffold protein irrespective of its enzymatic activity, counteracts the effects of E4f1. We propose that the modulation of Tcf3 repressor function by E4f1 assures precise and robust regulation of cdx4 expression in the caudal domain of the embryo.
Heterodimerization of Mdm2 and Mdm4 is critical for regulating p53 activity during embryogenesis but dispensable for p53 and Mdm2 stability.	Mdm2 and Mdm4 are homologous RING domain-containing proteins that negatively regulate the tumor suppressor p53 under physiological and stress conditions. The RING domain of Mdm2 encodes an E3-ubiquitin ligase that promotes p53 degradation. In addition, Mdm2 and Mdm4 interact through their respective RING domains. The in vivo significance of Mdm2-Mdm4 heterodimerization in regulation of p53 function is unknown. In this study, we generated an Mdm4 conditional allele lacking the RING domain to investigate its role in Mdm2 and p53 regulation. Our results demonstrate that homozygous deletion of the Mdm4 RING domain results in prenatal lethality. Mechanistically, Mdm2-Mdm4 heterodimerization is critical for inhibiting lethal p53 activation during early embryogenesis. However, Mdm2-Mdm4 interaction is dispensable for regulating p53 activity as well as the stability of Mdm2 and p53 at later stages of development. We propose that Mdm4 is a key cofactor of Mdm2 that inhibits p53 activity primarily during early embryogenesis but is dispensable for regulating p53 and Mdm2 stability in the adult mouse.
Parkin-mediated protection of dopaminergic neurons in a chronic MPTP-minipump mouse model of Parkinson disease.	Loss-of-function mutations in the ubiquitin ligase parkin are the major cause of recessively inherited early-onset Parkinson disease (PD). Impairment of parkin activity caused by nitrosative or dopamine-related modifications may also be responsible for the loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in sporadic PD. Previous studies have shown that viral vector-mediated delivery of parkin prevented DA neurodegeneration in several animal models, but little is known about the neuroprotective actions of parkin in vivo. Here, we investigated mechanisms of neuroprotection of overexpressed parkin in a modified long-term mouse model of PD using osmotic minipump administration of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). Recombinant adeno-associated viral vector-mediated intranigral delivery of parkin prevented motor deficits and DA cell loss in the mice. Ser129-phosphorylated -synuclein-immunoreactive cells were increased in the substantia nigra of parkin-treated mice. Moreover, delivery of parkin alleviated the MPTP-induced decrease of the active phosphorylated form of Akt. On the other hand, upregulation of p53 and mitochondrial alterations induced by chronic MPTP administration were barely suppressed by parkin. These results suggest that the neuroprotective actions of parkin may be impaired in severe PD.
The N342S MYLIP polymorphism is associated with high total cholesterol and increased LDL receptor degradation in humans.	Atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) affects more than 1 in 3 American adults. Hypercholesterolemia is a major treatable risk factor for ASCVD, yet many individuals fail to reach target levels of LDL-cholesterol (LDL-C) through the use of statins and lifestyle changes. The E3 ubiquitin ligase myosin regulatory light chain-interacting protein (MYLIP; also known as IDOL) is a recently identified regulator of the LDL receptor (LDLR) pathway. Genome-wide association studies (GWASs) in populations of mixed European descent have identified noncoding variants in the MYLIP region as being associated with LDL-C levels, but no underlying functional variants were pinpointed. In order to fine-map actual susceptibility variants, we studied a population demographically distinct from the discovery population to ensure a different pattern of linkage disequilibrium. Our analysis revealed that in a Mexican population, the nonsynonymous SNP rs9370867, which encodes the N342S amino acid substitution, is an underlying functional variant that was associated with high total cholesterol and accounted for one of the previous significant GWAS signals. Functional characterization showed that the Asn-encoding allele was associated with more potent LDLR degradation and decreased LDL uptake. Mutagenesis of residue 342 failed to affect intrinsic MYLIP E3 ligase activity, but it was critical for LDLR targeting. Our findings suggest that modulation of MYLIP activity can affect LDL-C levels and that pharmacologic inhibition of MYLIP activity might be a useful strategy in the treatment of dyslipidemia and ASCVD.
SUMO pathway dependent recruitment of cellular repressors to herpes simplex virus type 1 genomes.	Components of promyelocytic leukaemia (PML) nuclear bodies (ND10) are recruited to sites associated with herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) genomes soon after they enter the nucleus. This cellular response is linked to intrinsic antiviral resistance and is counteracted by viral regulatory protein ICP0. We report that the SUMO interaction motifs of PML, Sp100 and hDaxx are required for recruitment of these repressive proteins to HSV-1 induced foci, which also contain SUMO conjugates and PIAS2, a SUMO E3 ligase. SUMO modification of PML and elements of its tripartite motif (TRIM) are also required for recruitment in cells lacking endogenous PML. Mutants of PML isoform I and hDaxx that are not recruited to virus induced foci are unable to reproduce the repression of ICP0 null mutant HSV-1 infection mediated by their wild type counterparts. We conclude that recruitment of ND10 components to sites associated with HSV-1 genomes reflects a cellular defence against invading pathogen DNA that is regulated through the SUMO modification pathway.
Regulation of the Keap1/Nrf2 system by chemopreventive sulforaphane: implications of posttranslational modifications.	The chemopreventive agent sulforaphane is an isothiocyanate derived from cruciferous vegetables. Transcriptional activation of antioxidant response element (ARE)-regulated phase II detoxification and antioxidant genes through the induction of transcription factor NF-E2-related factor-2 (Nrf2) is considered as the prime mechanism of its chemopreventive action. Cellular level of Nrf2 is tightly regulated by proteolysis through Cullin3 (Cul3)/Kelch-like ECH-associated protein 1 (Keap1)-dependent polyubiquitination. Sulforaphane is an electrophile that can react with protein thiols to form thionoacyl adducts and is believed to affect the Cys residues in Keap1 protein. In addition, sulforaphane might affect the activity of a variety of intracellular kinases to phosphorylate Nrf2 proteins, which dictates the nucleocytoplasmic trafficking of Nrf2 or modulates the Nrf2 protein stability. This review is designed to briefly account for the regulatory mechanism of Nrf2 protein expression by Cul3/Keap1 E3 ligase and for the possible roles of posttranslational modifications of cellular Keap1 or Nrf2 proteins by sulforphane in the regulation of ARE-dependent gene activation.
Spinocerebellar ataxia type 31]	Spinocerebellar ataxia type 31 (SCA31) is a relatively common degenerative ataxia in Japan. We recently discovered SCA31 mutation as a complex pentanucleotide repeat containing (TAAAA)(n), (TAGAA)(n), and (TGGAA)(n). The size of this repeat ranged from 2.8 to 3.5 kilo-base pairs (kb). Among these repeats, (TGGAA)(n) repeat appears crucial for SCA31 pathogenesis. The length of this complex repeat inversely correlated with ages of onset in patients. The mutation lies in an intron shared by two different genes, BEAN (brain expressed, associated with NEDD4) and TK2 (thymidine kinase 2), which are transcribed in opposite directions. Thus, the complex pentanucleotide sequence is predicted to be transcribed in both directions, but not necessarily translated into proteins. In situ hybridization analysis in patients' Purkinje cells demonstrated that pentanucleotide repeats transcribed in BEAN direction form RNA aggregates ("RNA foci"). We further found that splicing factors, SFRS1 and SFRS9, binds to (UGGAA)(n), the transcript of (TGGAA)(n) in vitro. These findings may imply that SCA31 conforms to pathogenic mechanisms underlying non-coding repeat disorders, such as myotonic dystrophies (DM1 & DM2), and that SFRS1 and SFRS9 are involved in SCA31 pathogenesis.
The Arabidopsis RING-type E3 ligase XBAT32 mediates the proteasomal degradation of the ethylene biosynthetic enzyme, 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate synthase 7.	E3 ubiquitin ligases select specific proteins for ubiquitin conjugation, and the modified proteins are commonly degraded through the 26S proteasome. XBAT32 is a RING-type E3 ligase involved in maintaining appropriate levels of ethylene. Previous work has suggested that XBAT32 modulates ethylene production by ubiquitinating two ethylene biosynthesis enzymes, ACS4 (type-II isoform) and ACS7 (type-III isoform). In Arabidopsis, conserved sequences within the C-terminal tail of type-I and -II 1-aminocyclopropane-1-carboxylate (ACC) synthase (ACS) isoforms influence ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis. ACS7, the sole Arabidopsis type-III ACS, contains a truncated C-terminal tail that lacks all known regulatory sequences, which suggests that this isoform may not be subject to ubiquitin-mediated proteasomal degradation. Here we demonstrate in planta that ACS7 is turned over in a 26S proteasome-dependent manner and that degradation of ACS7 requires the E3 ligase XBAT32. Furthermore, the ethylene-related phenotypes that result from overexpression of ACS7 in wild-type plants are greatly exaggerated in xbat32-1, suggesting that XBAT32 is required to attenuate the effect of overexpression of ACS7. This observation is consistent with a role for XBAT32 in the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of ACS7. The dark-grown phenotype of xbat32-1 seedlings overexpressing ACS7 can be effectively rescued by aminoethoxyvinylglycine, an inhibitor of ACS activity. The degradation rate of ACS4 is also significantly slower in the absence of XBAT32, further implicating XBAT32 in the ubiquitin-mediated degradation of ACS4. Altogether, these results demonstrate that XBAT32 targets ethylene biosynthetic enzymes for proteasomal degradation to maintain appropriate levels of hormone production.
Alternative oxidase rescues mitochondria-mediated dopaminergic cell loss in Drosophila.	Mitochondrial dysfunction is commonly observed in degenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease that are characterized by the progressive and selective loss of neuronal subpopulations. It is currently unclear, however, whether mitochondrial dysfunction is primary or secondary to other pathogenic processes that eventually lead to age-related neurodegeneration. Here we establish an in vivo Drosophila model of mitochondrial dysfunction by downregulating the catalytic subunit of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) polymerase in cholinergic, serotonergic and dopaminergic neurons. The resulting flies are characterized by lowered respiratory chain activity, premature aging, age-related motor deficits as well as adult onset, progressive and cell-type-specific, dopaminergic neurodegeneration. Using this model, we find that associated lethality can be partially rescued by targeting PINK1/parkin signaling or Drp1, both of which have been implicated in mitochondrial dynamics and Parkinson's disease. Bypassing mitochondrial complex III/IV deficiencies with Alternative oxidase (AOX), however, fully restores ATP levels and prevents dopaminergic neurodegeneration. In contrast, ATP levels and neurodegeneration are not rescued when mitochondrial complex I deficiencies are bypassed with NADH-Q oxidoreductase. Our results demonstrate that mtDNA-mediated mitochondrial dysfunction can cause age-related and cell-type-specific neurodegeneration which AOX is able to alleviate and indicate that AOX or its surrogates may prove useful as a therapeutic tool for limiting respiratory chain deficiencies caused by mtDNA decline in healthy aging and neurodegenerative disease.
Expression of the central growth regulator BIG BROTHER is regulated by multiple cis-elements.	Much of the organismal variation we observe in nature is due to differences in organ size. The observation that even closely related species can show large, stably inherited differences in organ size indicates a strong genetic component to the control of organ size. Despite recent progress in identifying factors controlling organ growth in plants, our overall understanding of this process remains limited, partly because the individual factors have not yet been connected into larger regulatory pathways or networks. To begin addressing this aim, we have studied the upstream regulation of expression of BIG BROTHER (BB), a central growth-control gene in Arabidopsis thaliana that prevents overgrowth of organs. Final organ size and BB expression levels are tightly correlated, implying the need for precise control of its expression. BB expression mirrors proliferative activity, yet the gene functions to limit proliferation, suggesting that it acts in an incoherent feedforward loop downstream of growth activators to prevent over-proliferation.
Overexpression of synoviolin facilitates the formation of a functional synovial biomembrane.	Digital flexor tendon repair poses a significant challenge for hand surgeons. Currently, extrasynovial tendon grafts are frequently used in clinical settings to bridge flexor tendon defects. However, the healing process is always accompanied by postoperative adhesion. This is mostly due to the fact that no synovial membrane covers the extrasynovial tendon surface, in contrast to the intrasynovial tendon. In this study, we present an efficient method of developing a functional synovial biomembrane on the surface of the extrasynovial tendon. Synoviocytes were isolated from the knee joint of a Japanese white rabbit. After being infected with lentivirus, the over-expression of synoviolin in these synoviocytes was confirmed by semi-quantitative RT-PCR and western blotting. Cellular proliferation and increased hyaluronic acid secretion were confirmed in the synoviolin over-expressing synoviocytes by MTT-based method, cell cycle assays and ELISA. Furthermore, the synoviolin over-expressing synoviocytes were co-cultured with extrasynovial tendons that were harvested from the hind leg of rabbits. After being co-cultured in vitro for 3 and 7 days, these infected synoviocytes were found to accelerate the formation of a biomembrane on the tendon surface compared to the control group. More importantly, Alcian blue staining confirmed the ability of this cultured biomembrane to produce specific matrices containing acidic carboxyl mucopolysaccharides (mainly hyaluronic acid). All these results demonstrate that the over-expression of synoviolin stimulates the proliferation and HA secretion of synoviocytes and facilitates the formation of a functional synovial biomembrane.
MARCH1 down-regulation in IL-10-activated B cells increases MHC class II expression.	IL-10 is vastly studied for its anti-inflammatory properties on most immune cells. However, it has been reported that IL-10 activates B cells, up-regulates their MHC class II molecules and prevents apoptosis. As MARCH1 was shown to be responsible for the intracellular sequestration of MHC class II molecules in dendritic cells and monocytes in response to IL-10, we set out to clarify the role of this ubiquitin ligase in B cells. Here, we demonstrate in mice that splenic follicular B cells represent the major cell population that up-regulate MHC II molecules in the presence of IL-10. Activation of these cells through TLR4, CD40 or the IL-10 receptor caused the down-regulation of MARCH1 mRNA. Accordingly, B cells from MARCH1-deficient mice do not up-regulate I-A(b) in response to IL-10. In all, our results demonstrate that IL-10 can have opposite effects on MARCH1 regulation in different cell types.
Protein kinase C (PKC)-promoted endocytosis of glutamate transporter GLT-1 requires ubiquitin ligase Nedd4-2-dependent ubiquitination but not phosphorylation.	Glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) is the main glutamate transporter in the central nervous system, and its concentration severely decreases in neurodegenerative diseases. The number of transporters in the plasma membrane reflects the balance between their insertion and removal, and it has been reported that the regulated endocytosis of GLT-1 depends on its ubiquitination triggered by protein kinase C (PKC) activation. Here, we identified serine 520 of GLT-1 as the primary target for PKC-dependent phosphorylation, although elimination of this serine did not impair either GLT-1 ubiquitination or endocytosis in response to phorbol esters. In fact, we present evidence indicating that the ubiquitin ligase Nedd4-2 mediates the PKC-dependent ubiquitination and down-regulation of GLT-1. Overexpression of Nedd4-2 increased the ubiquitination of the transporter and promoted its degradation. Moreover, phorbol myristate acetate enhanced Nedd4-2 phosphorylation and the formation of GLT-1Nedd4-2 complexes, whereas siRNA knockdown of Nedd4-2 prevented ubiquitination, endocytosis, and the concomitant decrease in GLT-1 activity triggered by PKC activation. These results indicate that GLT-1 endocytosis is independent of its phosphorylation and that Nedd4-2 mediates PKC-dependent down-regulation of the transporter.
Pten regulates Aurora-A and cooperates with Fbxw7 in modulating radiation-induced tumor development.	The Aurora-A kinase gene is frequently amplified and/or overexpressed in a variety of human cancers, leading to major efforts to develop therapeutic agents targeting this pathway. Here, we show that Aurora-A is targeted for ubiquitination and subsequent degradation by the F-box protein FBXW7 in a process that is regulated by GSK3. Using a series of truncated Aurora-A proteins and site-directed mutagenesis, we identified distinct FBXW7 and GSK3-binding sites in Aurora-A. Mutation of critical residues in either site substantially disrupts degradation of Aurora-A. Furthermore, we show that loss of Pten results in the stabilization of Aurora-A by attenuating FBXW7-dependent degradation of Aurora-A through the AKT/GSK3 pathway. Moreover, radiation-induced tumor latency is significantly shortened in Fbxw7(+/-)Pten(+/-) mice as compared with either Fbxw7(+/-) or Pten(+/-) mice, indicating that Fbxw7 and Pten appear to cooperate in suppressing tumorigenesis. Our results establish a novel posttranslational regulatory network in which the Pten and Fbxw7 pathways appear to converge on the regulation of Aurora-A level.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) regulates cortactin ubiquitination and degradation in lung epithelial cells.	Cortactin, an actin-binding protein, is essential for cell growth and motility. We have shown that cortactin is regulated by reversible phosphorylation, but little is known regarding cortactin protein stability. Here, we show that lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cortactin degradation is mediated by extracellular regulated signal kinase (ERK). LPS induces cortactin serine phosphorylation, ubiquitination, and degradation in mouse lung epithelia, an effect abrogated by ERK inhibition. Serine phosphorylation sites mutant, cortactin(S405A/S418A), enhances its protein stability. Cortactin is polyubiquitinated and degraded within the proteasome, whereas a cortactin(K79R) mutant exhibited proteolytic stability during cyclohexamide (CHX) or LPS treatment. The E3 ligase subunit -Trcp interacts with cortactin, and its overexpression reduced cortactin protein levels, an effect attenuated by ERK inhibition. Overexpression of -Trcp was sufficient to reduce the protective effects of exogenous cortactin on epithelial cell barrier integrity, an effect not observed after expression of a cortactin(K79R) mutant. These results provide evidence that LPS modulation of cortactin stability is coordinately regulated by stress kinases and the ubiquitin-proteasomal network.
Pellino-1 selectively regulates epithelial cell responses to rhinovirus.	Pellino-1 has recently been identified as a regulator of interleukin-1 (IL-1) signaling, but its roles in regulation of responses of human cells to human pathogens are unknown. We investigated the potential roles of Pellino-1 in the airways. We show for the first time that Pellino-1 regulates responses to a human pathogen, rhinovirus minor group serotype 1B (RV-1B). Knockdown of Pellino-1 by small interfering RNA (siRNA) was associated with impaired production of innate immune cytokines such as CXCL8 from human primary bronchial epithelial cells in response to RV-1B, without impairment in production of antiviral interferons (IFN), and without loss of control of viral replication. Pellino-1 actions were likely to be independent of interleukin-1 receptor-associated kinase-1 (IRAK-1) regulation, since Pellino-1 knockdown in primary epithelial cells did not alter responses to IL-1 but did inhibit responses to poly(IC), a Toll-like receptor 3 (TLR3) activator that does not signal via IRAK-1 to engender a response. These data indicate that Pellino-1 represents a novel target that regulates responses of human airways to human viral pathogens, independently of IRAK signaling. Neutralization of Pellino-1 may therefore provide opportunities to inhibit potentially harmful neutrophilic inflammation of the airways induced by respiratory viruses, without loss of control of the underlying viral infection.
A new non-catalytic role for ubiquitin ligase RNF8 in unfolding higher-order chromatin structure.	The ubiquitin ligases RNF8 and RNF168 orchestrate DNA damage signalling through the ubiquitylation of histone H2A and the recruitment of downstream repair factors. Here, we demonstrate that RNF8, but not RNF168 or the canonical H2A ubiquitin ligase RNF2, mediates extensive chromatin decondensation. Our data show that CHD4, the catalytic subunit of the NuRD complex, interacts with RNF8 and is essential for RNF8-mediated chromatin unfolding. The chromatin remodelling activity of CHD4 promotes efficient ubiquitin conjugation and assembly of RNF168 and BRCA1 at DNA double-strand breaks. Interestingly, RNF8-mediated recruitment of CHD4 and subsequent chromatin remodelling were independent of the ubiquitin-ligase activity of RNF8, but involved a non-canonical interaction with the forkhead-associated (FHA) domain. Our study reveals a new mechanism of chromatin remodelling-assisted ubiquitylation, which involves the cooperation between CHD4 and RNF8 to create a local chromatin environment that is permissive to the assembly of checkpoint and repair machineries at DNA lesions.
Lotus japonicus E3 ligase SEVEN IN ABSENTIA4 destabilizes the symbiosis receptor-like kinase SYMRK and negatively regulates rhizobial infection.	The Lotus japonicus SYMBIOSIS RECEPTOR-LIKE KINASE (SYMRK) is required for symbiotic signal transduction upon stimulation of root cells by microbial signaling molecules. Here, we identified members of the SEVEN IN ABSENTIA (SINA) E3 ubiquitin-ligase family as SYMRK interactors and confirmed their predicted ubiquitin-ligase activity. In Nicotiana benthamiana leaves, SYMRK-yellow fluorescent protein was localized at the plasma membrane, and interaction with SINAs, as determined by bimolecular fluorescence complementation, was observed in small punctae at the cytosolic interface of the plasma membrane. Moreover, fluorescence-tagged SINA4 partially colocalized with SYMRK and caused SYMRK relocalization as well as disappearance of SYMRK from the plasma membrane. Neither the localization nor the abundance of Nod-factor receptor1 was altered by the presence of SINA4. SINA4 was transcriptionally upregulated during root symbiosis, and rhizobia inoculated roots ectopically expressing SINA4 showed reduced SYMRK protein levels. In accordance with a negative regulatory role in symbiosis, infection thread development was impaired upon ectopic expression of SINA4. Our results implicate SINA4 E3 ubiquitin ligase in the turnover of SYMRK and provide a conceptual mechanism for its symbiosis-appropriate spatio-temporal containment.
The BARD1 Cys557Ser variant and risk of familial breast cancer in a South-American population.	Since the discovery of the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes, much work has been carried out to identify further breast cancer (BC) susceptibility genes. BARD1 (BRCA1-associated ring domain) was originally identified as a BRCA1-interacting protein but has also been described in tumor-suppressive functions independent of BRCA1. Some association studies have suggested that the BARD1 Cys557Ser variant might be associated with increased risk of BC, but others have failed to confirm this finding. To date, this variant has not been analyzed in Spanish or South-American populations. In this study, using a case-control design, we analyzed the C-terminal Cys557Ser change in 322 Chilean BC cases with no mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 and in 570 controls in order to evaluate its possible association with BC susceptibility. BARD1 Cys557Ser was associated with an increased BC risk (P = 0.04, OR = 3.4 [95 % CI 1.2-10.2]) among cases belonging to families with a strong family history of BC. No difference between single cases affected with age <50 years at diagnosis (n = 117) and controls was observed for carriers of Cys/Ser genotype. It is likely that this variant is not involved in BC risk in this group of women. We also analyzed a possible interaction between BARD1 557Ser/XRCC3 241Met variants considering the role of both genes in the maintenance of genome integrity. The combined genotype Cys/Ser-carrier with the XRCC3 241Met allele was associated with an increased BC risk (P = 0.02, OR = 5.01 [95 % CI 1.36-18.5]) among women belonging to families with at least three BC and/or ovarian cancer cases. Our results suggest that BARD1 557Ser and XRCC3 241Met may play roles in BC risk in women with a strong family history of BC. Nevertheless there is no evidence of an interaction between the two SNPs. These findings should be confirmed by other studies and in other populations.
Clinical impact of NOTCH1 and/or FBXW7 mutations, FLASH deletion, and TCR status in pediatric T-cell lymphoblastic lymphoma.	Pediatric T-cell lymphoblastic lymphomas (T-LBL) are commonly treated on T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia (T-ALL) -derived protocols. Therapeutic stratification based on response to the prephase treatment and on minimal residual disease assessment is well established in T-ALL but is not easy to extrapolate to T-LBL. The identification of molecular prognostic markers at diagnosis in T-LBL could provide an alternative for early therapeutic stratification. Our study determines the frequency and prognostic value of NOTCH1/FBXW7 mutations (N/F(mut)), FLASH deletion at chromosome 6q, and TCR rearrangements in a prospective cohort of pediatric T-LBL.
Lysine63-linked ubiquitylation of PIN2 auxin carrier protein governs hormonally controlled adaptation of Arabidopsis root growth.	Cross-talk between plant cells and their surroundings requires tight regulation of information exchange at the plasma membrane (PM), which involves dynamic adjustments of PM protein localization and turnover to modulate signal perception and solute transport at the interface between cells and their surroundings. In animals and fungi, turnover of PM proteins is controlled by reversible ubiquitylation, which signals endocytosis and delivery to the cell's lytic compartment, and there is emerging evidence for related mechanisms in plants. Here, we describe the fate of Arabidopsis PIN2 protein, required for directional cellular efflux of the phytohormone auxin, and identify cis- and trans-acting mediators of PIN2 ubiquitylation. We demonstrate that ubiquitin acts as a principal signal for PM protein endocytosis in plants and reveal dynamic adjustments in PIN2 ubiquitylation coinciding with variations in vacuolar targeting and proteolytic turnover. We show that control of PIN2 proteolytic turnover via its ubiquitylation status is of significant importance for auxin distribution in root meristems and for environmentally controlled adaptations of root growth. Moreover, we provide experimental evidence indicating that PIN2 vacuolar sorting depends on modification specifically by lysine(63)-linked ubiquitin chains. Collectively, our results establish lysine(63)-linked PM cargo ubiquitylation as a regulator of polar auxin transport and adaptive growth responses in higher plants.
TRADD contributes to tumour suppression by regulating ULF-dependent p19Arf ubiquitylation.	Tumour necrosis factor receptor (TNFR)-associated death domain (TRADD) protein is a central adaptor in the TNFR1 signalling complex that mediates both cell death and inflammatory signals. Here, we report that Tradd deficiency in mice accelerated tumour formation in a chemical-induced carcinogenesis model independently of TNFR1 signalling. In vitro, primary cells lacking TRADD were less susceptible to HRas-induced senescence and showed a reduced level of accumulation of the p19(Arf) tumour suppressor protein. Our data indicate that TRADD shuttles dynamically from the cytoplasm into the nucleus to modulate the interaction between p19(Arf) and its E3 ubiquitin ligase ULF, thereby promoting p19(Arf) protein stability and tumour suppression. These results reveal a previously unknown tumour-suppressive role for nuclear TRADD, augmenting its long-established cytoplasmic functions in inflammatory and immune signalling cascades. Our findings also make an important contribution to the rapidly expanding field of p19(Arf) post-translational regulation.
Importance of functional and metabolic impairments in the characterization of the C-26 murine model of cancer cachexia.	Cancer cachexia describes the progressive skeletal muscle wasting and weakness that is associated with many cancers. It impairs quality of life and accounts for >20% of all cancer-related deaths. The main outcome that affects quality of life and mortality is loss of skeletal muscle function and so preclinical models should exhibit similar functional impairments in order to maximize translational outcomes. Mice bearing colon-26 (C-26) tumors are commonly used in cancer cachexia studies but few studies have provided comprehensive assessments of physiological and metabolic impairment, especially those factors that impact quality of life. Our aim was to characterize functional impairments in mildly and severely affected cachectic mice, and determine the suitability of these mice as a preclinical model. Metabolic abnormalities are also evident in cachectic patients and we investigated whether C-26-tumor-bearing mice had similar metabolic aberrations. Twelve-week-old CD2F1 mice received a subcutaneous injection of PBS (control) or C-26 tumor cells. After 18-20 days, assessments were made of grip strength, rotarod performance, locomotor activity, whole body metabolism, and contractile properties of tibialis anterior (TA) muscles (in situ) and diaphragm muscle strips (in vitro). Injection of C-26 cells reduced body and muscle mass, and epididymal fat mass. C-26-tumor-bearing mice exhibited lower grip strength and rotarod performance. Locomotor activity was impaired following C-26 injection, with reductions in movement distance, duration and speed compared with controls. TA muscles from C-26-tumor-bearing mice had lower maximum force (-27%) and were more susceptible to fatigue. Maximum specific (normalized) force of diaphragm muscle strips was reduced (-10%) with C-26 injection, and force during fatiguing stimulation was also lower. C-26-tumor-bearing mice had reduced carbohydrate oxidation and increased fat oxidation compared with controls. The range and consistency of functional and metabolic impairments in C-26-tumor-bearing mice confirm their suitability as a preclinical model for cancer cachexia. We recommend the use of these comprehensive functional assessments to maximize the translation of findings to more accurately identify effective treatments for cancer cachexia.
The Polycomb group protein Ring1b is essential for pectoral fin development.	Polycomb group (PcG) proteins are transcriptional repressors that mediate epigenetic gene silencing by chromatin modification. PcG-mediated gene repression is implicated in development, cell differentiation, stem-cell fate maintenance and cancer. However, analysis of the roles of PcG proteins in orchestrating vertebrate developmental programs in vivo has been hampered by the early embryonic lethality of several PcG gene knockouts in mice. Here, we demonstrate that zebrafish Ring1b, the E3 ligase in Polycomb Repressive Complex 1 (PRC1), is essential for pectoral fin development. We show that differentiation of lateral plate mesoderm (LPM) cells into presumptive pectoral fin precursors is initiated normally in ring1b mutants, but fin bud outgrowth is impaired. Fgf signaling, which is essential for migration, proliferation and cell-fate maintenance during fin development, is not sufficiently activated in ring1b mutants. Exogenous application of FGF4, as well as enhanced stimulation of Fgf signaling by overactivated Wnt signaling in apc mutants, partially restores the fin developmental program. These results reveal that, in the absence of functional Ring1b, fin bud cells fail to execute the pectoral fin developmental program. Together, our results demonstrate that PcG-mediated gene regulation is essential for sustained Fgf signaling in vertebrate limb development.
Genetics and epigenetics of Parkinson's disease.	In 1997 a mutation in the a-synuclein (SNCA) gene was associated with familial autosomal dominant Parkinson's disease (PD). Since then, several loci (PARK1-15) and genes have been linked to familial forms of the disease. There is now sufficient evidence that six of the so far identified genes at PARK loci (a-synuclein, leucine-rich repeat kinase 2, parkin, PTEN-induced putative kinase 1, DJ-1, and ATP13A2) cause inherited forms of typical PD or parkinsonian syndromes. Other genes at non-PARK loci (MAPT, SCA1, SCA2, spatacsin, POLG1) cause syndromes with parkinsonism as one of the symptoms. The majority of PD cases are however sporadic "idiopathic" forms, and the recent application of genome-wide screening revealed almost 20 genes that might contribute to disease risk. In addition, increasing evidence suggests that epigenetic mechanisms, such as DNA methylation, histone modifications, and small RNA-mediated mechanisms, could regulate the expression of PD-related genes.
Overexpression of Smad ubiquitin regulatory factor 2 suppresses transforming growth factor- mediated liver fibrosis.	To determine the function of Smad ubiquitin regulatory factor 2 (Smurf2) on the development of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis.
TRIM16 acts as an E3 ubiquitin ligase and can heterodimerize with other TRIM family members.	The TRIM family of proteins is distinguished by its tripartite motif (TRIM). Typically, TRIM proteins contain a RING finger domain, one or two B-box domains, a coiled-coil domain and the more variable C-terminal domains. TRIM16 does not have a RING domain but does harbour two B-box domains. Here we showed that TRIM16 homodimerized through its coiled-coil domain and heterodimerized with other TRIM family members; TRIM24, Promyelocytic leukaemia (PML) protein and Midline-1 (MID1). Although, TRIM16 has no classic RING domain, three-dimensional modelling of TRIM16 suggested that its B-box domains adopts RING-like folds leading to the hypothesis that TRIM16 acts as an ubiquitin ligase. Consistent with this hypothesis, we demonstrated that TRIM16, devoid of a classical RING domain had auto-polyubiquitination activity and acted as an E3 ubiquitin ligase in vivo and in vitro assays. Thus via its unique structure, TRIM16 possesses both heterodimerization function with other TRIM proteins and also has E3 ubiquitin ligase activity.
Ezrin ubiquitylation by the E3 ubiquitin ligase, WWP1, and consequent regulation of hepatocyte growth factor receptor activity.	The membrane cytoskeleton linker ezrin participates in several functions downstream of the receptor Met in response to Hepatocyte Growth Factor (HGF) stimulation. Here we report a novel interaction of ezrin with a HECT E3 ubiquitin ligase, WWP1/Aip5/Tiul1, a potential oncogene that undergoes genomic amplification and overexpression in human breast and prostate cancers. We show that ezrin binds to the WW domains of WWP1 via the consensus motif PPVY(477) present in ezrin's C-terminus. This association results in the ubiquitylation of ezrin, a process that requires an intact PPVY(477) motif. Interestingly ezrin ubiquitylation does not target the protein for degradation by the proteasome. We find that ezrin ubiquitylation by WWP1 in epithelial cells leads to the upregulation of Met level in absence of HGF stimulation and increases the response of Met to HGF stimulation as measured by the ability of the cells to heal a wound. Interestingly this effect requires ubiquitylated ezrin since it can be rescued, after depletion of endogenous ezrin, by wild type ezrin but not by a mutant of ezrin that cannot be ubiquitylated. Taken together our data reveal a new role for ezrin in Met receptor stability and activity through its association with the E3 ubiquitin ligase WWP1. Given the role of Met in cell proliferation and tumorigenesis, our results may provide a mechanistic basis for understanding the role of ezrin in tumor progression.
Structural insights into the assembly of large oligomeric signalosomes in the Toll-like receptor-interleukin-1 receptor superfamily.	The Toll-like receptor (TLR)-interleukin 1 receptor (IL-1R) superfamily plays fundamentally important roles in innate immune and inflammatory responses. Structural studies have begun to show that upon ligand stimulation, TLRs and IL-1Rs assemble large oligomeric intracellular signaling complexes, or "signalosomes," to induce the activation of kinases and E3 ubiquitin ligases, leading eventually to the activation of the transcription factors that are responsible for the expression of genes whose products mediate immune and inflammatory responses. The different scaffolds identified by these structural studies provide a molecular foundation for understanding the formation of microscopically visible signaling clusters that have long been known to cell biologists. Here, we illustrate the potential mechanisms of step-by-step assembly from the membrane-proximal interactions to the more downstream events. Formation of large oligomeric signalosomes may help to establish a digital threshold response in TLR and IL-1R signaling.
The Fbw7 and betaTRCP E3 ubiquitin ligases and their roles in tumorigenesis.	The Ubiquitin Proteasome System (UPS) is a major regulator of protein abundance in the cell.  The UPS influences the functions of multiple biological processes by targeting key regulators for destruction. E3 ubiquitin ligases are a vital component of the UPS machinery, working with E1 and E2 enzymes to bind substrates and facilitate the transfer of ubiquitin molecules onto the target protein.  This poly-ubiquitination, in turn, directs the modified proteins for proteolysis by the 26S proteasome.  As the UPS regulates the degradation of multiple oncogenes and tumor suppressors, the dysregulation of this pathway is known to promote various diseases including cancer.  While E1 and E2 enzymes have only been minimally linked to cancer development, burgeoning amounts of evidence have implicated loss or gain of E3 function as a key factor in cancer initiation and progression. This review will examine the literature on two SCF-type E3 ligases, SCFFbw7 and SCFbeta-TRCP.  In particular, we will highlight novel substrates recently identified for these two E3 ligases, and further discuss how UPS regulation of these targets may promote carcinogenesis.
Alterations of the Hsp70/Hsp90 chaperone and the HOP/CHIP co-chaperone system in cancer.	Activation of the Hsp90 chaperone system is a characteristic of cancer cells. The regulation of chaperone activities involves their interaction with cochaperones; therefore we investigated the expression of Hsp70 and Hsp90 and their specific co-chaperones HOP and CHIP in cancer cell lines and primary cancers. Inhibition of Hsp90 by 17AAG increased the levels of Hsp70, Hsp90 and HOP but not CHIP mRNA in cancer cells. These changes are linked to activation of the HSF1 transcription factor and we show that the HOP promoter contains HSF1 binding sites, and that HSF1 binding to the HOP promoter is increased following 17AAG. The lack of alteration in the co-chaperone CHIP is explained by a lack of HSF response elements in the CHIP promoter. Non-proliferating cells expressed higher levels of CHIP and lower HOP, Hsp70 and Hsp90 levels compared to proliferating cells. Decreased expression of CHIP in proliferating cancer cells is in keeping with its proposed tumor suppressor properties, while over-expression of HOP in proliferating cells may contribute to excessive Hsp90 activity and stabilization of client proteins in tumors. In a panel of colorectal cancer samples, increased expression of Hsp70 and an increased ratio of HOP to CHIP were found, and were associated with decreased median survival. These data indicate that multiple changes occur in the chaperone/co-chaperone system in cancer that impact patient survival. It is likely that the ability to identify individual alterations to this system will be beneficial for treatment strategy decisions, particularly those that employ chaperone inhibitors.
Analysis of neural subtypes reveals selective mitochondrial dysfunction in dopaminergic neurons from parkin mutants.	Studies of the familial Parkinson disease-related proteins PINK1 and Parkin have demonstrated that these factors promote the fragmentation and turnover of mitochondria following treatment of cultured cells with mitochondrial depolarizing agents. Whether PINK1 or Parkin influence mitochondrial quality control under normal physiological conditions in dopaminergic neurons, a principal cell type that degenerates in Parkinson disease, remains unclear. To address this matter, we developed a method to purify and characterize neural subtypes of interest from the adult Drosophila brain. Using this method, we find that dopaminergic neurons from Drosophila parkin mutants accumulate enlarged, depolarized mitochondria, and that genetic perturbations that promote mitochondrial fragmentation and turnover rescue the mitochondrial depolarization and neurodegenerative phenotypes of parkin mutants. In contrast, cholinergic neurons from parkin mutants accumulate enlarged depolarized mitochondria to a lesser extent than dopaminergic neurons, suggesting that a higher rate of mitochondrial damage, or a deficiency in alternative mechanisms to repair or eliminate damaged mitochondria explains the selective vulnerability of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson disease. Our study validates key tenets of the model that PINK1 and Parkin promote the fragmentation and turnover of depolarized mitochondria in dopaminergic neurons. Moreover, our neural purification method provides a foundation to further explore the pathogenesis of Parkinson disease, and to address other neurobiological questions requiring the analysis of defined neural cell types.
Genome-wide association study of periodontal pathogen colonization.	Pathological shifts of the human microbiome are characteristic of many diseases, including chronic periodontitis. To date, there is limited evidence on host genetic risk loci associated with periodontal pathogen colonization. We conducted a genome-wide association (GWA) study among 1,020 white participants of the Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities Study, whose periodontal diagnosis ranged from healthy to severe chronic periodontitis, and for whom "checkerboard" DNA-DNA hybridization quantification of 8 periodontal pathogens was performed. We examined 3 traits: "high red" and "high orange" bacterial complexes, and "high" Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans (Aa) colonization. Genotyping was performed on the Affymetrix 6.0 platform. Imputation to 2.5 million markers was based on HapMap II-CEU, and a multiple-test correction was applied (genome-wide threshold of p < 5  10(-8)). We detected no genome-wide significant signals. However, 13 loci, including KCNK1, FBXO38, UHRF2, IL33, RUNX2, TRPS1, CAMTA1, and VAMP3, provided suggestive evidence (p < 5  10(-6)) of association. All associations reported for "red" and "orange" complex microbiota, but not for Aa, had the same effect direction in a second sample of 123 African-American participants. None of these polymorphisms was associated with periodontitis diagnosis. Investigations replicating these findings may lead to an improved understanding of the complex nature of host-microbiome interactions that characterizes states of health and disease.
Effect of Ligustrazine on expressions of FoXO3a, MAFbx, and MuRF1 in denervated skeletal muscle atrophy rats]	To investigate the effect of Ligustrazine on the expressions of FoXO3a, MAFbx, and MuRF1 in denervated skeletal muscle atrophy rats.
Advancing management of hypertension through pharmacogenomics.	Hypertension is the most common, chronic disease in the world, and there are many effective pharmacological agents available for its treatment. Despite the plethora of treatment options, data across the globe suggest that blood pressure control rates are < 50%, a fact likely influenced in part by the inability to predict the antihypertensive drug likely to be most effective for an individual patient. Pharmacogenomics in hypertension holds the promise of identifying genetic biomarkers for antihypertensive drug response, which might be used in the future in treatment selection. Research in the field is also likely to enhance our understanding of hypertension and the mechanisms by which the various drugs produce efficacy. There are several examples in the literature of genes with relatively strong data on associations of genetic polymorphisms with antihypertensive response; the data on ADRB1, CACNB2, and NEDD4L are detailed as examples. Substantial additional data in hypertension pharmacogenomics are expected to be forthcoming from recently completed genome-wide association studies. Increased collaboration among research groups will help insure successful discoveries from these large-scale studies. The next decade should clearly define the potential clinical implications of the research in hypertension pharmacogenomics that is currently in progress.
NOTCH1 signaling as a therapeutic target in Szary syndrome.	NOTCH signaling is important for development and tissue homeostasis and is activated in many human cancers. We investigated a role for NOTCH1 signaling in Szary syndrome (SS), a cutaneous T-cell lymphoma in which CD4+ tumor cells (Szary cells) are present in the skin, lymph nodes, and peripheral blood. We show consistent expression of activated NOTCH1 by Szary cells isolated from peripheral blood of SS patients, as well as the SS-derived cell lines SeAx and HuT78. In addition, immunohistochemical stainings of skin biopsies from SS patients showed consistent expression of nuclear NOTCH1 and its downstream target hairy/enhancer of split-1 (HES1) by Szary cells. We demonstrate that this persistent NOTCH1 activation is not caused by mutations in the coding regions of NOTCH1 and F-box and WD40 domain protein 7 (FBWX7) genes. Inhibition of NOTCH1 signaling by gamma secretase inhibitors decreased cellular viability and induced apoptosis of Szary cells. These observations argue that NOTCH1 signaling is functionally involved in the pathogenesis of SS, and inhibition of NOTCH1 signaling represents a new therapeutic target for the treatment of SS.
Copy number variations associated with obesity-related traits in African Americans: a joint analysis between GENOA and HyperGEN.	Obesity is a highly heritable trait and a growing public health problem. African Americans (AAs) are a genetically diverse, yet understudied population with a high prevalence of obesity (BMI >30 kg/m(2)). Recent studies based upon single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) have identified genetic markers associated with obesity. However, a large proportion of the heritability of obesity remains unexplained. Copy number variation (CNV) has been cited as a possible source of missing heritability in common diseases such as obesity. We conducted a CNV genome-wide association study of BMI in two African-American cohorts from Genetic Epidemiology Network of Arteriopathy (GENOA) and Hypertension Genetic Epidemiology Network (HyperGEN). We performed independent and identical association analyses in each study, then combined the results in a meta-analysis. We identified three CNVs associated with BMI, obesity, and other obesity-related traits after adjusting for multiple testing. These CNVs overlap the PARK2, GYPA, and SGCZ genes. Our results suggest that CNV may play a role in the etiology of obesity in AAs.
TOPORS modulates H2AX discriminating genotoxic stresses.	H2AX plays an important role in chromatin reorganization implicated in DNA repair and apoptosis under various DNA damaging conditions. In this study, the interaction between TOPORS (topoisomerase I-binding protein) and H2AX was verified using mammalian cell extracts exposed to diverse DNA damaging stresses such as ionizing radiation, doxorubicin, camptothecin, and hydrogen peroxide. In vitro assays for ubiquitination revealed that TOPORS functions as a novel E3 ligase for H2AX ubiquitination. TOPORS was found to be dissociated from H2AX proteins when cells were exposed to oxidative stress, but not replication-inducing DNA damaging stress. The protein stability of H2AX was decreased when TOPORS was ectopically expressed in cells, and oxidative stresses such as hydrogen peroxide and ionizing radiation induced recovery of the H2AX protein level. Therefore, these biochemical data suggest that TOPORS plays a key role in the turnover of H2AX protein, discriminating the type of DNA damaging stress.
Polycystin-1 regulates the stability and ubiquitination of transcription factor Jade-1.	Autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD) and von Hippel-Lindau (VHL) disease lead to large kidney cysts that share pathogenetic features. The polycystin-1 (PC1) and pVHL proteins may therefore participate in the same key signaling pathways. Jade-1 is a pro-apoptotic and growth suppressive ubiquitin ligase for beta-catenin and transcriptional coactivator associated with histone acetyltransferase activity that is stabilized by pVHL in a manner that correlates with risk of VHL renal disease. Thus, a relationship between Jade-1 and PC1 was sought. Full-length PC1 bound, stabilized and colocalized with Jade-1 and inhibited Jade-1 ubiquitination. In contrast, the cytoplasmic tail or the naturally occurring C-terminal fragment of PC1 (PC1-CTF) promoted Jade-1 ubiquitination and degradation, suggesting a dominant-negative mechanism. ADPKD-associated PC1 mutants failed to regulate Jade-1, indicating a potential disease link. Jade-1 ubiquitination was mediated by Siah-1, an E3 ligase that binds PC1. By controlling Jade-1 abundance, PC1 and the PC1-CTF differentially regulate Jade-1-mediated transcriptional activity. A key target of PC1, the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21, is also up-regulated by Jade-1. Through Jade-1, PC1 and PC1 cleaved forms may exert fine control of beta-catenin and canonical Wnt signaling, a critical pathway in cystic renal disease. Thus, Jade-1 is a transcription factor and ubiquitin ligase whose activity is regulated by PC1 in a manner that is physiologic and may correlate with disease. Jade-1 may be an important therapeutic target in renal cystogenesis.
Identification of a genetic variant common to moyamoya disease and intracranial major artery stenosis/occlusion.	The c.14576G>A variant in ring finger protein 213 (RNF213) was recently identified as a susceptibility gene variant for moyamoya disease (MMD). The occurrence of c.14576G>A variant was evaluated in patients with intracranial major artery stenosis/occlusion (ICASO) without signs of MMD (non-MMD ICASO), as well as in patients with MMD and other cerebrovascular diseases as controls.
The yeast homologue of the microtubule-associated protein Lis1 interacts with the sumoylation machinery and a SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase.	Microtubules and microtubule-associated proteins are fundamental for multiple cellular processes, including mitosis and intracellular motility, but the factors that control microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are poorly understood. Here we show that two MAPs-the CLIP-170 homologue Bik1p and the Lis1 homologue Pac1p-interact with several proteins in the sumoylation pathway. Bik1p and Pac1p interact with Smt3p, the yeast SUMO; Ubc9p, an E2; and Nfi1p, an E3. Bik1p interacts directly with SUMO in vitro, and overexpression of Smt3p and Bik1p results in its in vivo sumoylation. Modified Pac1p is observed when the SUMO protease Ulp1p is inactivated. Both ubiquitin and Smt3p copurify with Pac1p. In contrast to ubiquitination, sumoylation does not directly tag the substrate for degradation. However, SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligases (STUbLs) can recognize a sumoylated substrate and promote its degradation via ubiquitination and the proteasome. Both Pac1p and Bik1p interact with the STUbL Nis1p-Ris1p and the protease Wss1p. Strains deleted for RIS1 or WSS1 accumulate Pac1p conjugates. This suggests a novel model in which the abundance of these MAPs may be regulated via STUbLs. Pac1p modification is also altered by Kar9p and the dynein regulator She1p. This work has implications for the regulation of dynein's interaction with various cargoes, including its off-loading to the cortex.
NMI mediates transcription-independent ARF regulation in response to cellular stresses.	The ARF tumor suppressor is a product of the INK4a/ARF locus, which is frequently mutated in human cancer. The expression of ARF is up-regulated in response to certain types of DNA damage, oncogene activation, and interferon stimuli. Through interaction with the p53 negative regulator MDM2, ARF controls a well-described p53/MDM2-dependent checkpoint. However, the mechanism of ARF induction is poorly understood. Using a yeast two-hybrid screen, we identify a novel ARF-interacting protein, N-Myc and STATs interactor (NMI). Previously, NMI was known to be a c-Myc-interacting protein. Here we demonstrate that through competitive binding to the ARF ubiquitin E3 ligase (ubiquitin ligase for ARF [ULF]), NMI protects ARF from ULF-mediated ubiquitin degradation. In response to cellular stresses, NMI is induced, and a fraction of NMI is translocated to the nucleus to stabilize ARF. Thus our work reveals a novel NMI-mediated, transcription-independent ARF induction pathway in response to cellular stresses.
Identification of the degradation determinants of insulin receptor substrate 1 for signaling cullin-RING E3 ubiquitin ligase 7-mediated ubiquitination.	Negative feedback regulation of insulin signaling involves ubiquitin-dependent degradation of insulin receptor substrate 1 (IRS1).
Voltage-dependent anion channels (VDACs) recruit Parkin to defective mitochondria to promote mitochondrial autophagy.	Parkin is recruited to defective mitochondria to promote degradation by an autophagy mechanism (mitophagy).
Inhibition of DNA damage-induced apoptosis through Cdc7-mediated stabilization of Tob.	Preventing unnecessary cell death is essential for DNA-damaged cells to carry out the DNA repair process.
Poly-small ubiquitin-like modifier (PolySUMO)-binding proteins identified through a string search.	Polysumoylation is a crucial cellular response to stresses against genomic integrity or proteostasis. Like the small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO)-targeted ubiquitin ligase RNF4, proteins with clustered SUMO-interacting motifs (SIMs) can be important signal transducers downstream of polysumoylation. To identify novel polySUMO-binding proteins, we conducted a computational string search with a custom Python script. We found clustered SIMs in another RING domain protein Arkadia/RNF111. Detailed biochemical analysis of the Arkadia SIMs revealed that dominant SIMs in a SIM cluster often contain a pentameric VIDLT ((V/I/L/F/Y)(V/I)DLT) core sequence that is also found in the SIMs in PIAS family E3s and is likely the best-fitted structure for SUMO recognition. This idea led to the identification of additional novel SIM clusters in FLASH/CASP8AP2, C5orf25, and SOBP/JXC1. We suggest that the clustered SIMs in these proteins form distinct SUMO binding domains to recognize diverse forms of protein sumoylation.
Parkin and mitofusins reciprocally regulate mitophagy and mitochondrial spheroid formation.	Mitochondrial homeostasis via mitochondrial dynamics and quality control is crucial to normal cellular functions. Mitophagy (mitochondria removed by autophagy) stimulated by a mitochondrial uncoupler, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP), requires Parkin, but it is not clear why Parkin is crucial to this process. We found that in the absence of Parkin, carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone induced the formation of mitochondrial spheroids. Mitochondrial spheroid formation is also induced in vivo in the liver by acetaminophen overdose, a condition causing severe oxidative mitochondrial damages and liver injury. Mitochondrial spheroids could undergo a maturation process by interactions with acidic compartments. The formation of this new structure required reactive oxygen species and mitofusins. Parkin suppressed these mitochondrial dynamics by promoting mitofusin degradation. Consistently, genetic deletion of mitofusins without concomitant expression of Parkin was sufficient to prevent mitochondrial spheroid formation and resumed mitophagy. Mitochondrial spheroid formation and mitophagy could represent different strategies of mitochondrial homeostatic response to oxidative stress and are reciprocally regulated by mitofusins and Parkin.
Exome sequencing of serous endometrial tumors identifies recurrent somatic mutations in chromatin-remodeling and ubiquitin ligase complex genes.	Endometrial cancer is the sixth most commonly diagnosed cancer in women worldwide, causing ~74,000 deaths annually. Serous endometrial cancers are a clinically aggressive subtype with a poorly defined genetic etiology. We used whole-exome sequencing to comprehensively search for somatic mutations within ~22,000 protein-encoding genes in 13 primary serous endometrial tumors. We subsequently resequenced 18 genes, which were mutated in more than 1 tumor and/or were components of an enriched functional grouping, from 40 additional serous tumors. We identified high frequencies of somatic mutations in CHD4 (17%), EP300 (8%), ARID1A (6%), TSPYL2 (6%), FBXW7 (29%), SPOP (8%), MAP3K4 (6%) and ABCC9 (6%). Overall, 36.5% of serous tumors had a mutated chromatin-remodeling gene, and 35% had a mutated ubiquitin ligase complex gene, implicating frequent mutational disruption of these processes in the molecular pathogenesis of one of the deadliest forms of endometrial cancer.
Association of connexin43 with E3 ubiquitin ligase TRIM21 reveals a mechanism for gap junction phosphodegron control.	Gap junctions (GJs) are sites of direct cell-to-cell communication formed by the connexin (Cx) family of ion channel proteins. The aberrant intercellular communication mediated by GJs is associated with a variety of hereditary and acquired human diseases. GJs utilize a highly interconnected network that is indispensible for synthesis, trafficking and degradation of their constituent proteins. By unbiased proteomic examination and network enrichment, we identified interacting components of the ubiquitin proteasome system associated with Cx43. LC-MS/MS identification and quantification of tryptic peptides from IP materials revealed a variety of interacting candidates, including the E3 ligase TRIM21 and ubiquitin. The interaction of Cx43 with TRIM21 was confirmed by confocal microscopy and coimmunoprecipitation of these proteins from C6 rat glioma and mouse primary astrocyte cultures. To gain a better understanding of this interaction, complexes isolated by high-resolution size-exclusion chromatography revealed signal integration by phosphorylation, ubiquitylation and proteolytic turnover within complexes of Cx43/TRIM21. Cx43/TRIM21 is also responsive to E1 UBE1 and E2 UbcH5a, with the interruption of this activity being an effective inhibitor of in vitro ubiquitin-conjugation. Mathematical models of these complexes demonstrated a mechanism for the switch-like degradation of GJs that were validated in EGF-stimulated cell cultures. Our finding of the interaction of Cx43 with TRIM21 provides mechanisms for the down-regulation of GJ intercellular communication that are known to impact a variety of physiological processes.
Characterisation of human RING finger protein TRIM69, a novel testis E3 ubiquitin ligase and its subcellular localisation.	The E3 ubiquitin ligase activity and subcellular localisation of human TRIM69 (hTRIM69) gene were studied. It was found that hTRIM69 mediated ubiquitination in an E2 conjugating enzyme selective fashion in vitro and an intact RING finger domain was indispensible for the process. Further evidences showed that hTRIM69 could mediate ubiquitination in vivo, which could be enhanced by a proteasome inhibitor. hTRIM69 was found to localise in both the cytoplasm and the nucleus in a speckled aggregating pattern, which also required an intact RING finger domain. Collectively, hTRIM69 is a novel E3 ubiquitin ligase identified from human testis and may function to ubiquitinate its particular substrates during spermatogenesis.
Field cancerization in mammary carcinogenesis - Implications for prevention and treatment of breast cancer.	The natural history of breast cancer unfolds with the development of ductal carcinoma in situ (DCIS) in normal breast tissue, and evolution of this pre-invasive neoplasm into invasive cancer. The mechanisms that drive these processes are poorly understood, but evidence from the literature suggests that mammary carcinogenesis may occur through the process of field cancerization. Clinical observations are consistent with the idea that (i) DCIS may arise in a field of altered breast epithelium, (ii) narrow surgical margins do not remove the entire altered field (contributing to recurrence and/or disease progression), and (iii) whole-breast radiation therapy is effective in elimination of the residual field of altered cells adjacent to the resected DCIS. Molecular studies suggest that the field of altered breast epithelial cells may carry cancer-promoting genetic mutations (or other molecular alterations) or cancer promoting epimutations (oncogenic alterations in the epigenome). In fact, most breast cancers develop through a succession of molecular events involving both genetic mutations and epimutations. Hence, in hereditary forms of breast cancer, the altered field reflects the entire breast tissue which is composed of cells with a predisposing molecular lesion (such as a BRCA1 mutation). In the example of a BRCA1-mutant patient, it is evident that local resection of a DCIS lesion or localized but invasive cancer will not result in elimination of the altered field. In sporadic breast cancer patients, the mechanistic basis for the altered field may not be so easily recognized. Nonetheless, identification of the nature of field cancerization in a given patient may guide clinical intervention. Thus, patients with DCIS that develops in response to an epigenetic lesion (such as a hypermethylation defect affecting the expression of tumor suppressor genes) might be treated with epigenetic therapy to normalize the altered field and reduce the risk of secondary occurrence of DCIS or progression to invasive cancer.
Pathway-specific dopaminergic deficits in a mouse model of Angelman syndrome.	Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder caused by maternal deletions or mutations of the ubiquitin ligase E3A (UBE3A) allele and characterized by minimal verbal communication, seizures, and disorders of voluntary movement. Previous studies have suggested that abnormal dopamine neurotransmission may underlie some of these deficits, but no effective treatment currently exists for the core features of AS. A clinical trial of levodopa (L-DOPA) in AS is ongoing, although the underlying rationale for this treatment strategy has not yet been thoroughly examined in preclinical models. We found that AS model mice lacking maternal Ube3a (Ube3a(m-/p+) mice) exhibit behavioral deficits that correlated with abnormal dopamine signaling. These deficits were not due to loss of dopaminergic neurons or impaired dopamine synthesis. Unexpectedly, Ube3a(m-/p+) mice exhibited increased dopamine release in the mesolimbic pathway while also exhibiting a decrease in dopamine release in the nigrostriatal pathway, as measured with fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. These findings demonstrate the complex effects of UBE3A loss on dopamine signaling in subcortical motor pathways that may inform ongoing clinical trials of L-DOPA therapy in patients with AS.
Phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase II function at endosomes is regulated by the ubiquitin ligase Itch.	Phosphatidylinositol (PI) 4-phosphate (PI(4)P) and its metabolizing enzymes serve important functions in cell signalling and membrane traffic. PI 4-kinase type II (PI4KII) regulates Wnt signalling, endosomal sorting of signalling receptors, and promotes adaptor protein recruitment to endosomes and the trans-Golgi network. Here we identify the E3 ubiquitin ligase Itch as binding partner and regulator of PI4KII function. Itch directly associates with and ubiquitinates PI4KII, and both proteins colocalize on endosomes containing Wnt-activated frizzled 4 (Fz4) receptor. Depletion of PI4KII or Itch regulates Wnt signalling with corresponding changes in Fz4 internalization and degradative sorting. These findings unravel a new molecular link between phosphoinositide-regulated endosomal membrane traffic, ubiquitin and the modulation of Wnt signalling.
Role of recycling, Mindbomb1 association, and exclusion from lipid rafts of -like 4 for effective Notch signaling to drive T cell development.	Intrathymic T cell development is predicated on the Notch1 ligand Delta-like (Dll) 4. However, both Dll4 and Dll1 can support T cell development in vitro. Endocytosis of Dll1 is important for Notch activation, whereas currently there is no evidence for the role of Dll4 endocytosis in T cell development. To elucidate this, we generated Dll4 constructs that modify or inhibit endocytosis. Our results show that targeting the intracellular domain affects Dll4's ability to induce Notch target gene expression, support efficient T cell development, and inhibit B cell development. Dll4 function relies on a combination of factors, which include strong Mindbomb1 (Mib1) association, ubiquitination, and internalization and recycling back to the cell surface, to engage Notch1 effectively. Distinct membrane localization and the Delta/Serrate/Lag2 (DSL) domain were important for Dll4 function. These features are consistent with a "recycling" model, but not in opposition to a "mechano-transduction" model, whereby Dll4 is able to engage Notch and create a pulling force required to activate signaling, leading to the induction of T-lineage development. Taken together, in contrast to Dll1, Dll4 does not localize to lipid rafts and shows stronger association with Mib1 and increased Notch1 uptake, which likely account for its superior ability to induce T cell development.
Molecular mechanism of early-onset familial PD]	The cellular abnormalities in Parkinson's disease (PD) are probably induced by both genetic predisposition and environmental factors. Mitochondrial dysfunction has long been implicated in the pathogenesis of PD. The recent discovery of genes associated with the etiology of familial PD has emphasized the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in PD. Recently, PINK1 and Parkin, which are associated with the mitochondria, have also enhanced the understanding of mitochondrial integrity. However, the exact mechanism underlying the functional interplay between Parkin and PINK1 remains unknown. PINK1 is rapidly and constitutively degraded under steady state conditions in a mitochondrial membrane potential dependent manner. But a loss of mitochondrial potential stabilizes PINK1 accumulation. This phenomenon may be the first step of mitochondrial elimination (mitophagy) and useful for the mitochondrial stress biomarker. Furthermore, some pathogenic mutations of PINK1 are associated with mitochondrial respiratory deficit. These results suggest that accumulation of damaged mitochondria may be the cause of early-onset familial PD.
Species-specific inhibition of RIG-I ubiquitination and IFN induction by the influenza A virus NS1 protein.	Influenza A viruses can adapt to new host species, leading to the emergence of novel pathogenic strains. There is evidence that highly pathogenic viruses encode for non-structural 1 (NS1) proteins that are more efficient in suppressing the host immune response. The NS1 protein inhibits type-I interferon (IFN) production partly by blocking the TRIM25 ubiquitin E3 ligase-mediated Lys63-linked ubiquitination of the viral RNA sensor RIG-I, required for its optimal downstream signaling. In order to understand possible mechanisms of viral adaptation and host tropism, we examined the ability of NS1 encoded by human (Cal04), avian (HK156), swine (SwTx98) and mouse-adapted (PR8) influenza viruses to interact with TRIM25 orthologues from mammalian and avian species. Using co-immunoprecipitation assays we show that human TRIM25 binds to all tested NS1 proteins, whereas the chicken TRIM25 ortholog binds preferentially to the NS1 from the avian virus. Strikingly, none of the NS1 proteins were able to bind mouse TRIM25. Since NS1 can inhibit IFN production in mouse, we tested the impact of TRIM25 and NS1 on RIG-I ubiquitination in mouse cells. While NS1 efficiently suppressed human TRIM25-dependent ubiquitination of RIG-I 2CARD, NS1 inhibited the ubiquitination of full-length mouse RIG-I in a mouse TRIM25-independent manner. Therefore, we tested if the ubiquitin E3 ligase Riplet, which has also been shown to ubiquitinate RIG-I, interacts with NS1. We found that NS1 binds mouse Riplet and inhibits its activity to induce IFN- in murine cells. Furthermore, NS1 proteins of human but not swine or avian viruses were able to interact with human Riplet, thereby suppressing RIG-I ubiquitination. In conclusion, our results indicate that influenza NS1 protein targets TRIM25 and Riplet ubiquitin E3 ligases in a species-specific manner for the inhibition of RIG-I ubiquitination and antiviral IFN production.
HUWE1 and TRIP12 collaborate in degradation of ubiquitin-fusion proteins and misframed ubiquitin.	In eukaryotic cells an uncleavable ubiquitin moiety conjugated to the N-terminus of a protein signals the degradation of the fusion protein via the proteasome-dependent ubiquitin fusion degradation (UFD) pathway. In yeast the molecular mechanism of the UFD pathway has been well characterized. Recently the human E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase TRIP12 was connected with the UFD pathway, but little is otherwise known about this system in mammalian cells. In the present work, we utilized high-throughput imaging on cells transfected with a targeted siRNA library to identify components involved in degradation of the UFD substrate Ub(G76V)-YFP. The most significant hits from the screen were the E3 ubiquitin-protein ligase HUWE1, as well as PSMD7 and PSMD14 that encode proteasome subunits. Accordingly, knock down of HUWE1 led to an increase in the steady state level and a retarded degradation of the UFD substrate. Knock down of HUWE1 also led to a stabilization of the physiological UFD substrate UBB(+1). Precipitation experiments revealed that HUWE1 is associated with both the Ub(G76V)-YFP substrate and the 26S proteasome, indicating that it functions late in the UFD pathway. Double knock down of HUWE1 and TRIP12 resulted in an additive stabilization of the substrate, suggesting that HUWE1 and TRIP12 function in parallel during UFD. However, even when both HUWE1 and TRIP12 are downregulated, ubiquitylation of the UFD substrate was still apparent, revealing functional redundancy between HUWE1, TRIP12 and yet other ubiquitin-protein ligases.
SCF-mediated degradation of p100 (NF-B2): mechanisms and relevance in multiple myeloma.	On the basis of differential analysis of affinity purifications by mass spectrometry, we identified the nuclear factor B (NF-B) protein p100 (NF-B2) as an interactor of the F-box protein FBXW7. The NF-B pathway is important for cell growth, differentiation, and survival. p100, which shuttles between the cytoplasm and nucleus, functions as the primary inhibitor of the noncanonical NF-B pathway by sequestering NF-B heterodimers in the cytoplasm. In the absence of NF-B stimulation, the nuclear pool of p100 is constitutively targeted for degradation by FBXW7, which recognizes a conserved motif that is phosphorylated by glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3). Efficient activation of noncanonical NF-B signaling depends on the clearance of nuclear p100, either through FBXW7-mediated degradation or nuclear export mediated by a signal in the C terminus of p100. Upon prolonged stimulation of the NF-B pathway, p100 is stabilized and retained in the nucleus, contributing to the cessation of noncanonical NF-B signaling. The molecular mechanism of p100 degradation has implications in multiple myeloma, a disease with constitutive activation of the noncanonical NF-B pathway. Accordingly, expression of a stable p100 mutant, FBXW7 depletion, or chemical inhibition of GSK3 in multiple myeloma cells results in cell death in vitro and in a xenotransplant model. Thus, the FBXW7-dependent degradation of p100 functions as a prosurvival mechanism through control of NF-B activity.
RNF4-dependent hybrid SUMO-ubiquitin chains are signals for RAP80 and thereby mediate the recruitment of BRCA1 to sites of DNA damage.	The DNA repair function of the breast cancer susceptibility protein BRCA1 depends in part on its interaction with RAP80, which targets BRCA1 to DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) through recognition of K63-linked polyubiquitin chains. The localization of BRCA1 to DSBs also requires sumoylation. We demonstrated that, in addition to having ubiquitin-interacting motifs, RAP80 also contains a SUMO-interacting motif (SIM) that is critical for recruitment to DSBs. In combination with the ubiquitin-binding activity of RAP80, this SIM enabled RAP80 to bind with nanomolar affinity to hybrid chains consisting of ubiquitin conjugated to SUMO. Furthermore, RNF4, a SUMO-targeted ubiquitin E3 ligase that synthesizes hybrid SUMO-ubiquitin chains, localized to DSBs and was critical for the recruitment of RAP80 and BRCA1 to sites of DNA damage. Our findings, therefore, connect ubiquitin- and SUMO-dependent DSB recognition, revealing that RNF4-synthesized hybrid SUMO-ubiquitin chains are recognized by RAP80 to promote BRCA1 recruitment and DNA repair.
Loss of SPARC in mouse skeletal muscle causes myofiber atrophy.	The expression of secreted protein acidic and rich in cysteine (SPARC) in skeletal muscle decreases with age. Here, we examined the role of SPARC in skeletal muscle by reducing its expression.
The BBX subfamily IV: additional cogs and sprockets to fine-tune light-dependent development.	Plants depend on light during all phases of its life cycle, and have evolved a complex signaling network to constantly monitor its surroundings. Photomorphogenesis, a process during which the plant reprograms itself in order to dwell life in presence of light is one of the most studied phenomena in plants. Recent mutant analyses using model plant Arabidopsis thaliana and protein interaction assays have unraveled a new set of players, an 8-member subfamily of B-box proteins, known as BBX subfamily IV. For the members of this subfamily, positive (BBX21, BBX22) as well as negative (BBX24) functions have been described for its members, showing a strong association to two major players of the photomorphogenic cascade, HY5 and COP1. The roles of these new BBX regulators are not restricted to photomorphogenesis, but also have functions in other facets of light-dependent development. Therefore this newly identified set of regulators has opened up new insights into the understanding of the fine-tuning of this complex process. 
Inhibition of the renin-angiotensin system improves physiological outcomes in mice with mild or severe cancer cachexia.	Cancer cachexia describes the progressive skeletal muscle wasting and weakness associated with many cancers. Cachexia reduces mobility and quality of life and accounts for 20-30% of all cancer-related deaths. Activation of the renin-angiotensin system causes skeletal muscle wasting and weakness. We tested the hypothesis that treatment with the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, perindopril, would enhance whole body and skeletal muscle function in cachectic mice bearing Colon-26 (C-26) tumors. CD2F1 mice received a subcutaneous injection of phosphate buffered saline or C-26 tumor cells inducing either a mild or severe cachexia. The following day, one cohort of C-26 mice began receiving perindopril in their drinking water (4 mg kg(-1) day(-1) ) for 21 days. In mild and severe cachexia, perindopril increased measures of whole body function (grip strength and rotarod) and reduced fatigue in isolated contracting diaphragm muscle strips (p<0.05). In severely cachectic mice, perindopril reduced tumor growth, improved locomotor activity and reduced fatigue of tibialis anterior muscles in situ (p<0.05), which was associated with increased oxidative enzyme capacity (succinate deyhydrogenase, p<0.05). Perindopril attenuated the increase in MuRF-1 and IL-6 mRNA expression and enhanced Akt phosphorylation in severely cachectic mice but neither body nor muscle mass was increased. These findings support the therapeutic potential of ACE inhibition for enhancing whole body function and reducing fatigue of respiratory muscles in early and late stage cancer cachexia and should be confirmed in future clinical trials. Since ACE inhibition alone did not enhance body or muscle mass, co-treatment with an anabolic agent may be required to address these aspects of cancer cachexia. 
COP1 re-accumulates in the nucleus under shade.	Shade-avoider plants typically respond to shade-light signals by increasing the rate of stem growth. CONSTITTUTIVE PHOTOMORPHOGENESIS 1 (COP1) is an E3 ligase involved in the ubiquitin labelling of proteins targeted for degradation. In dark-grown seedlings, COP1 accumulates in the nucleus and light exposure causes COP1 migration to the cytosol. Here, we show that in Arabidopsis thaliana, COP1 accumulates in the nucleus under natural or simulated shade, despite the presence of far-red light. In plants grown under white light, the transfer to shade-light conditions triggers an unexpectedly rapid re-accumulation of COP1 in the nucleus. The partial simulation of shade by lowering either blue or red light levels (maintaining far-red light) caused COP1 nuclear re-accumulation. Hypocotyl growth of wild-type seedlings is more sensitive to afternoon shade than to morning shade. A residual response to shade was observed in the cop1 mutant background, but these seedlings showed inverted sensitivity as they responded to morning shade and not to afternoon shade. COP1 overexpression exaggerated the wild-type pattern by enhancing afternoon sensitivity and making morning shade inhibitory of growth. COP1 nuclear re-accumulation also responded more strongly to afternoon shade than to morning shade. These results are consistent with a signalling role of COP1 in shade avoidance. We propose a function of COP1 in setting the daily patterns of sensitivity to shade in the fluctuating light environments of plant canopies. 
Epilepsy in Prader-Willi syndrome: experience of a national referral centre.	The aim of the study was to characterize epilepsy, febrile seizures, electrographic features, and brain abnormalities in a large, national cohort of individuals with Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS).
RML prions act through Mahogunin and Attractin-independent pathways.	While the conversion of the normal form of prion protein to a conformationally distinct pathogenic form is recognized to be the primary cause of prion disease, it is not clear how this leads to spongiform change, neuronal dysfunction and death. Mahogunin ring finger-1 (Mgrn1) and Attractin (Atrn) null mutant mice accumulate vacuoles throughout the brain that appear very similar to those associated with prion disease, but they do not accumulate the protease-resistant scrapie form of the prion protein or become sick. A study demonstrating an interaction between cytosolically-exposed prion protein and MGRN1 suggested that disruption of MGRN1 function may contribute to prion disease pathogenesis, but we recently showed that neither loss of MGRN1 nor MGRN1 overexpression influences the onset or progression of prion disease following intracerebral inoculation with Rocky Mountain Laboratory prions. Here, we show that loss of ATRN also has no effect on prion disease onset or progression and discuss possible mechanisms that could cause vacuolation of the central nervous system in Mgrn1 and Atrn null mutant mice and whether the same pathways might contribute to this intriguing phenotype in prion disease. 
Formation of Arabidopsis Cryptochrome 2 photobodies in mammalian nuclei: application as an optogenetic DNA damage checkpoint switch.	Nuclear bodies are discrete suborganelle structures that perform specialized functions in eukaryotic cells. In plant cells, light can induce de novo formation of nuclear bodies called photobodies (PBs) composed of the photosensory pigments, phytochrome (PHY) or cryptochrome (CRY). The mechanisms of formation, the exact compositions, and the functions of plant PBs are not known. Here, we have expressed Arabidopsis CRY2 (AtCRY2) in mammalian cells and analyzed its fate after blue light exposure to understand the requirements for PB formation, the functions of PBs, and their potential use in cell biology. We found that light efficiently induces AtCRY2-PB formation in mammalian cells, indicating that, other than AtCRY2, no plant-specific proteins or nucleic acids are required for AtCRY2-PB formation. Irradiation of AtCRY2 led to its degradation; however, degradation was not dependent upon photobody formation. Furthermore, we found that AtCRY2 photobody formation is associated with light-stimulated interaction with mammalian COP1 E3 ligase. Finally, we demonstrate that by fusing AtCRY2 to the TopBP1 DNA damage checkpoint protein, light-induced AtCRY2 PBs can be used to activate DNA damage signaling pathway in the absence of DNA damage. 
Genistein down-regulates miR-223 expression in pancreatic cancer cells.	Although genistein has been shown to inhibit tumorigenesis in a variety of human cancers including pancreatic cancer (PC), the exact molecular mechanism of its anti-cancer effects has not yet been fully elucidated. Recently, microRNAs (miRNAs) have been reported to regulate multiple aspects of tumor development and progression, indicating that targeting miRNAs could be a novel strategy to treat human cancers. In the current study, we investigated whether a natural compound genistein could down-regulate onco-miR-223, resulting in the inhibition of cell growth and invasion, and induction of apoptosis in PC cells. We found that genistein treatment significantly inhibited miR-223 expression and up-regulated Fbw7, one of the targets of miR-223. Moreover, down-regulation of miR-223 inhibited cell growth and induced apoptosis in PC cells. These findings suggest that genistein exerts its anti-tumor activity partly through downregulation of miR-223 in PC cells. 
The E3 ubiquitin ligase XIAP restricts Anaplasma phagocytophilum colonization of Ixodes scapularis ticks.	Ubiquitination is a posttranslational modification that regulates protein degradation and signaling in eukaryotes. Although it is acknowledged that pathogens exploit ubiquitination to infect mammalian cells, it remains unknown how microbes interact with the ubiquitination machinery in medically relevant arthropods. Here, we show that the ubiquitination machinery is present in the tick Ixodes scapularis and demonstrate that the E3 ubiquitin ligase named x-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein (XIAP) restricts bacterial colonization of this arthropod vector. We provide evidence that xiap silencing significantly increases tick colonization by the bacterium Anaplasma phagocytophilum, the causative agent of human granulocytic anaplasmosis. We also demonstrate that (i) XIAP polyubiquitination is dependent on the really interesting new gene (RING) catalytic domain, (ii) XIAP polyubiquitination occurs via lysine (K)-63 but not K-48 residues, and (iii) XIAP-dependent K-63 polyubiquitination requires zinc for catalysis. Taken together, our data define a role for ubiquitination during bacterial colonization of disease vectors. 
USP47 and C terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein (CHIP) antagonistically regulate katanin-p60-mediated axonal growth.	Katanin is a heterodimeric enzyme that severs and disassembles microtubules. While the p60 subunit has the enzyme activity, the p80 subunit regulates the p60 activity. The microtubule-severing activity of katanin plays an essential role in axonal growth. However, the mechanisms by which neuronal cells regulate the expression of katanin-p60 remains unknown. Here we showed that USP47 and C terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein (CHIP) antagonistically regulate the stability of katanin-p60 and thereby axonal growth. USP47 was identified as a katanin-p60-specific deubiquitinating enzyme for its stabilization. We also identified CHIP as a ubiquitin E3 ligase that promotes proteasome-mediated degradation of katanin-p60. Moreover, USP47 promoted axonal growth of cultured rat hippocampal neurons, whereas CHIP inhibited it. Significantly, treatment with basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), an inducer of axonal growth, increased the levels of USP47 and katanin-p60, but not CHIP. Consistently, bFGF treatment resulted in a marked decrease in the level of ubiquitinated katanin-p60 and thereby in the promotion of axonal growth. On the other hand, the level of USP47, but not CHIP, decreased concurrently with that of katanin-p60 as axons reached their target cells. These results indicate that USP47 plays a crucial role in the control of axonal growth during neuronal development by antagonizing CHIP-mediated katanin-p60 degradation. 
Effects of sildenafil on the gastrocnemius and cardiac muscles of rats in a model of prolonged moderate exercise training.	Moderate exercise training improves energetic metabolism, tissue perfusion and induces cardiac and skeletal muscle remodeling. Sildenafil, a potent phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor used to treat erectile dysfunction, reduces infarct size and increases tissue oxygenation in experimental models of cardiovascular disease. We have evaluated the effects of prolonged moderate exercise training and a repeat administration of sildenafil on the rat gastrocnemius and cardiac muscles. Animals were divided into two groups: sedentary and trained. Each group was subdivided into animals treated with vehicle or with two doses of sildenafil (10 or 15 mg/kg/day) during the last week of training. Physical exercise did not induce cardiac hypertrophy, whereas it increased mRNA levels of the PGC-1, HIF-1 and VEGF genes, which are involved in mitochondrial biogenesis and angiogenesis, and reduced mRNA levels of FoxO3a, MuRF-1 and Atrogin-1. Sildenafil dose-dependently promoted both angiogenesis, as shown by increased capillary density, and muscle atrophy, as shown by muscle fibre size. These effects were more pronounced in trained animals. Our data confirm the beneficial effects of a moderate and prolonged training on cardiovascular and skeletal systems and document the positive and negative effects of sildenafil on these tissues at doses higher than those used in clinical practice. This report may impact on the use of sildenafil as a substance able to influence sports performance. 
Rines E3 ubiquitin ligase regulates MAO-A levels and emotional responses.	Monoamine oxidase A (MAO-A), the catabolic enzyme of norepinephrine and serotonin, plays a critical role in emotional and social behavior. However, the control and impact of endogenous MAO-A levels in the brain remains unknown. Here we show that the RING finger-type E3 ubiquitin ligase Rines/RNF180 regulates brain MAO-A subset, monoamine levels, and emotional behavior. Rines interacted with MAO-A and promoted its ubiquitination and degradation. Rines knock-out mice displayed impaired stress responses, enhanced anxiety, and affiliative behavior. Norepinephrine and serotonin levels were altered in the locus ceruleus, prefrontal cortex, and amygdala in either stressed or resting conditions, and MAO-A enzymatic activity was enhanced in the locus ceruleus in Rines knock-out mice. Treatment of Rines knock-out mice with MAO inhibitors showed genotype-specific effects on some of the abnormal affective behaviors. These results indicated that the control of emotional behavior by Rines is partly due to the regulation of MAO-A levels. These findings verify that Rines is a critical regulator of the monoaminergic system and emotional behavior and identify a promising candidate drug target for treating diseases associated with emotion. 
Post-translational control of IL-1 via the human papillomavirus type 16 E6 oncoprotein: a novel mechanism of innate immune escape mediated by the E3-ubiquitin ligase E6-AP and p53.	Infections with high-risk human papillomaviruses (HPVs) are causally involved in the development of anogenital cancer. HPVs apparently evade the innate immune response of their host cells by dysregulating immunomodulatory factors such as cytokines and chemokines, thereby creating a microenvironment that favors malignancy. One central key player in the immune surveillance interactome is interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) which not only mediates inflammation, but also links innate and adaptive immunity. Because of its pleiotropic physiological effects, IL-1 production is tightly controlled on transcriptional, post-translational and secretory levels. Here, we describe a novel mechanism how the high-risk HPV16 E6 oncoprotein abrogates IL-1 processing and secretion in a NALP3 inflammasome-independent manner. We analyzed IL-1 regulation in immortalized keratinocytes that harbor the HPV16 E6 and/or E7 oncogenes as well as HPV-positive cervical tumor cells. While in primary and in E7-immortalized human keratinocytes the secretion of IL-1 was highly inducible upon inflammasome activation, E6-positive cells did not respond. Western blot analyses revealed a strong reduction of basal intracellular levels of pro-IL-1 that was independent of dysregulation of the NALP3 inflammasome, autophagy or lysosomal activity. Instead, we demonstrate that pro-IL-1 is degraded in a proteasome-dependent manner in E6-positive cells which is mediated via the ubiquitin ligase E6-AP and p53. Conversely, in E6- and E6/E7-immortalized cells pro-IL-1 levels were restored by siRNA knock-down of E6-AP and simultaneous recovery of functional p53. In the context of HPV-induced carcinogenesis, these data suggest a novel post-translational mechanism of pro-IL-1 regulation which ultimately inhibits the secretion of IL-1 in virus-infected keratinocytes. The clinical relevance of our results was further confirmed in HPV-positive tissue samples, where a gradual decrease of IL-1 towards cervical cancer could be discerned. Hence, attenuation of IL-1 by the HPV16 E6 oncoprotein in immortalized cells is apparently a crucial step in viral immune evasion and initiation of malignancy. 
Distinct SUMO ligases cooperate with Esc2 and Slx5 to suppress duplication-mediated genome rearrangements.	Suppression of duplication-mediated gross chromosomal rearrangements (GCRs) is essential to maintain genome integrity in eukaryotes. Here we report that SUMO ligase Mms21 has a strong role in suppressing GCRs in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, while Siz1 and Siz2 have weaker and partially redundant roles. Understanding the functions of these enzymes has been hampered by a paucity of knowledge of their substrate specificity in vivo. Using a new quantitative SUMO-proteomics technology, we found that Siz1 and Siz2 redundantly control the abundances of most sumoylated substrates, while Mms21 more specifically regulates sumoylation of RNA polymerase-I and the SMC-family proteins. Interestingly, Esc2, a SUMO-like domain-containing protein, specifically promotes the accumulation of sumoylated Mms21-specific substrates and functions with Mms21 to suppress GCRs. On the other hand, the Slx5-Slx8 complex, a SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligase, suppresses the accumulation of sumoylated Mms21-specific substrates. Thus, distinct SUMO ligases work in concert with Esc2 and Slx5-Slx8 to control substrate specificity and sumoylation homeostasis to prevent GCRs. 
A proteomic perspective of inbuilt viral protein regulation: pUL46 tegument protein is targeted for degradation by ICP0 during herpes simplex virus type 1 infection.	Much like the host cells they infect, viruses must also regulate their life cycles. Herpes simples virus type 1 (HSV-1), a prominent human pathogen, uses a promoter-rich genome in conjunction with multiple viral trans-activating factors. Following entry into host cells, the virion-associated outer tegument proteins pUL46 and pUL47 act to increase expression of viral immediate-early () genes, thereby helping initiate the infection life cycle. Because pUL46 has gone largely unstudied, we employed a hybrid mass spectrometry-based approach to determine how pUL46 exerts its functions during early stages of infection. For a spatio-temporal characterization of pUL46, time-lapse microscopy was performed in live cells to define its dynamic localization from 2 to 24 h postinfection. Next, pUL46-containing protein complexes were immunoaffinity purified during infection of human fibroblasts and analyzed by mass spectrometry to investigate virus-virus and virus-host interactions, as well as post-translational modifications. We demonstrated that pUL46 is heavily phosphorylated in at least 23 sites. One phosphorylation site matched the consensus 14-3-3 phospho-binding motif, consistent with our identification of 14-3-3 proteins and host and viral kinases as specific pUL46 interactions. Moreover, we determined that pUL46 specifically interacts with the viral E3 ubiquitin ligase ICP0. We demonstrated that pUL46 is partially degraded in a proteasome-mediated manner during infection, and that the catalytic activity of ICP0 is responsible for this degradation. This is the first evidence of a viral protein being targeted for degradation by another viral protein during HSV-1 infection. Together, these data indicate that pUL46 levels are tightly controlled and important for the temporal regulation of viral gene expression throughout the virus life cycle. The concept of a structural virion protein, pUL46, performing nonstructural roles is likely to reflect a theme common to many viruses, and a better understanding of these functions will be important for developing therapeutics. 
Mitochondrial quality control in neurodegenerative diseases.	Mutations causing genetic forms of Parkinson's disease or hereditary neuropathies have been recently shown to affect key molecular players involved in the recycling of defective mitochondria, most notably PARKIN, PINK1, Mitofusin 2 or dynein heavy chain. Interestingly, the same pathways are also indirectly targeted by multiple other mutations involved in familial forms of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Huntington's disease or Alzheimer's disease. These recent genetic results strongly reinforce the notion that defective mitochondrial physiology might cause neurodegeneration. Mitochondrial dysfunction has however been observed in virtually every neurodegenerative disease and appears not restricted to the most vulnerable neuronal populations affected by a given disease. Thus, the mechanisms linking defective mitochondrial quality control to death of selective neuronal populations remain to be identified. This review provides an update on the most recent literature on mitochondrial quality control and its impairment during neurodegenerative diseases. 
RNF38 encodes a nuclear ubiquitin protein ligase that modifies p53.	The RNF38 gene encodes a RING finger protein of unknown function. Here we demonstrate that RNF38 is a functional ubiquitin protein ligase (E3). We show that RNF38 isoform 1 is localized to the nucleus by a bipartite nuclear localization sequence (NLS). We confirm that RNF38 is a binding partner of p53 and demonstrate that RNF38 can ubiquitinate p53 in vitro and in vivo. Finally, we show that overexpression of RNF38 in HEK293T cells results in relocalization of p53 to discrete foci associated with PML nuclear bodies. These results suggest RNF38 is an E3 ubiquitin ligase that may play a role in regulating p53. 
Smad3 induces atrogin-1, inhibits mTOR and protein synthesis, and promotes muscle atrophy in vivo.	Myostatin, a member of the TGF superfamily, is sufficient to induce skeletal muscle atrophy. Myostatin-induced atrophy is associated with increases in E3-ligase atrogin-1 expression and protein degradation and decreases in Akt/mechanistic target of rapamycin (mTOR) signaling and protein synthesis. Myostatin signaling activates the transcription factor Smad3 (Small Mothers Against Decapentaplegic), which has been shown to be necessary for myostatin-induced atrogin-1 expression and atrophy; however, it is not known whether Smad3 is sufficient to induce these events or whether Smad3 simply plays a permissive role. Thus, the aim of this study was to address these questions with an in vivo model. To accomplish this goal, in vivo transfection of plasmid DNA was used to create transient transgenic mouse skeletal muscles, and our results show for the first time that Smad3 expression is sufficient to stimulate atrogin-1 promoter activity, inhibit Akt/mTOR signaling and protein synthesis, and induce muscle fiber atrophy. Moreover, we propose that Akt/mTOR signaling is inhibited by a Smad3-induced decrease in microRNA-29 (miR-29) expression and a subsequent increase in the translation of phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) mRNA. Smad3 is also sufficient to inhibit peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor- coactivator-1 (PGC1) promoter activity and to increase FoxO (Forkhead Box Protein, Subclass O)-mediated signaling and the promoter activity of plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1). Combined, this study provides the first evidence that Smad3 is sufficient to regulate many of the events associated with myostatin-induced atrophy and therefore suggests that Smad3 signaling may be a viable target for therapies aimed at preventing myostatin-induced muscle atrophy. 
Restricted mitochondrial protein acetylation initiates mitochondrial autophagy.	Because nutrient-sensing nuclear and cytosolic acetylation mediates cellular autophagy, we investigated whether mitochondrial acetylation modulates mitochondrial autophagy (mitophagy). Knockdown of GCN5L1, a component of the mitochondrial acetyltransferase machinery, diminished mitochondrial protein acetylation and augmented mitochondrial enrichment of autophagy mediators. This program was disrupted by SIRT3 knockdown. Chronic GCN5L1 depletion increased mitochondrial turnover and reduced mitochondrial protein content and/or mass. In parallel, mitochondria showed blunted respiration and enhanced 'stress-resilience'. Genetic disruption of autophagy mediators Atg5 and p62 (also known as SQSTM1), as well as GCN5L1 reconstitution, abolished deacetylation-induced mitochondrial autophagy. Interestingly, this program is independent of the mitophagy E3-ligase Parkin (also known as PARK2). Taken together, these data suggest that deacetylation of mitochondrial proteins initiates mitochondrial autophagy in a canonical autophagy-mediator-dependent program and shows that modulation of this regulatory program has ameliorative mitochondrial homeostatic effects.
RNF185 is a novel E3 ligase of endoplasmic reticulum-associated degradation (ERAD) that targets cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR).	In the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), misfolded or improperly assembled proteins are exported to the cytoplasm and degraded by the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway through a process called ER-associated degradation (ERAD). ER-associated E3 ligases, which coordinate substrate recognition, export, and proteasome targeting, are key components of ERAD. Cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) is one ERAD substrate targeted to co-translational degradation by the E3 ligase RNF5/RMA1. RNF185 is a RING domain-containing polypeptide homologous to RNF5. We show that RNF185 controls the stability of CFTR and of the CFTRF508 mutant in a RING- and proteasome-dependent manner but does not control that of other classical ERAD model substrates. Reciprocally, its silencing stabilizes CFTR proteins. Turnover analyses indicate that, as RNF5, RNF185 targets CFTR to co-translational degradation. Importantly, however, simultaneous depletion of RNF5 and RNF185 profoundly blocks CFTRF508 degradation not only during translation but also after synthesis is complete. Our data thus identify RNF185 and RNF5 as a novel E3 ligase module that is central to the control of CFTR degradation. 
Stress-induced cellular transcription factors expressed in trigeminal ganglionic neurons stimulate the herpes simplex virus 1 ICP0 promoter.	Alphaherpesvirinae family members can reactivate from latency following stress. The synthetic corticosteroid dexamethasone induces certain cellular transcription factors in murine and bovine trigeminal ganglionic neurons. Three dexamethasone-induced transcription factors, Krppel-like factor 15, Slug, and SPDEF, stimulated the herpes simplex virus type 1-infected cell protein 0 (ICP0) promoter more than 150-fold. Conversely, other viral promoters (VP16 and ICP4) were not strongly stimulated, suggesting that the ICP0 promoter is preferentially activated by dexamethasone-simulated stress. 
IGF-1R modulation of acute GH-induced STAT5 signaling: role of protein tyrosine phosphatase activity.	GH is a potent anabolic and metabolic factor that binds its cell surface receptor (GHR), activating the GHR-associated tyrosine kinase, Janus kinase 2, which phosphorylates and activates the latent transcription factor, signal transducer and activator of transcription 5 (STAT5). Some GH actions are mediated by the elaboration of IGF-1, which exerts effects by binding and activating the heterotetrameric tyrosine kinase growth factor receptor, IGF-1R. In addition to this GH-GHR-IGF-1-IGF-1R scheme, we have demonstrated in primary osteoblasts and in islet -cells that then deletion or silencing of IGF-1R results in diminished GH-induced STAT5 phosphorylation, suggesting that the presence of IGF-1R may facilitate GH signaling. In this study, we explore potential roles for protein tyrosine phosphatase activity in modulating GH-induced signaling, comparing conditions in which IGF-1R is present or diminished. We confirm that in mouse primary osteoblasts harboring loxP sites flanking the IGF-1R gene, infection with an adenovirus that expresses the Cre recombinase results in IGF-1R deletion and diminished acute GH-induced STAT5 phosphorylation. Furthermore, we present a new model of IGF-1R silencing, in which expression of short hairpin RNA directed at IGF-1R greatly reduces IGF-1R abundance in LNCaP human prostate cancer cells. In both models, treatment with a chemical inhibitor of protein tyrosine phosphatase-1B (PTP-1B), but not one of src homology region 2 domain-containing phosphotase-1 (SHP-1) and SHP-2, reverses the loss of GH-induced STAT5 phosphorylation in cells lacking IGF-1R but has no effect in cells with intact IGF-1R. Furthermore, expression of either a dominant-negative PTP-1B or the PTP-1B-interacting inhibitory protein, constitutive photomorphogenesis 1, also rescues acute GH-induced STAT5 signaling in IGF-1R-deficient cells but has no effect in IGF-1R replete cells. By expressing a substrate-trapping mutant PTP-1B, we demonstrate that tyrosine phosphorylated Janus kinase-2 is a PTP-1B substrate only in cells lacking IGF-1R. Collectively, our data suggest that IGF-1R positively regulates acute GH signaling by preventing access of PTP-1B activity to Janus kinase 2 and thereby preventing PTP-1B-mediated suppression of GH-induced STAT5 activation. 
Survival in stage II/III colorectal cancer is independently predicted by chromosomal and microsatellite instability, but not by specific driver mutations.	Microsatellite instability (MSI) is an established marker of good prognosis in colorectal cancer (CRC). Chromosomal instability (CIN) is strongly negatively associated with MSI and has been shown to be a marker of poor prognosis in a small number of studies. However, a substantial group of "double-negative" (MSI-/CIN-) CRCs exists. The prognosis of these patients is unclear. Furthermore, MSI and CIN are each associated with specific molecular changes, such as mutations in KRAS and BRAF, that have been associated with prognosis. It is not known which of MSI, CIN, and the specific gene mutations are primary predictors of survival.
The ubiquitin ligase CHIP prevents SirT6 degradation through noncanonical ubiquitination.	The ubiquitin ligase CHIP (carboxyl terminus of Hsp70-interacting protein) regulates protein quality control, and CHIP deletion accelerates aging and reduces the life span in mice. Here, we reveal a mechanism for CHIP's influence on longevity by demonstrating that CHIP stabilizes the sirtuin family member SirT6, a lysine deacetylase/ADP ribosylase involved in DNA repair, metabolism, and longevity. In CHIP-deficient cells, SirT6 protein half-life is substantially reduced due to increased proteasome-mediated degradation, but CHIP overexpression in these cells increases SirT6 protein expression without affecting SirT6 transcription. CHIP noncanonically ubiquitinates SirT6 at K170, which stabilizes SirT6 and prevents SirT6 canonical ubiquitination by other ubiquitin ligases. In CHIP-depleted cells, SirT6 K170 mutation increases SirT6 half-life and prevents proteasome-mediated degradation. The global decrease in SirT6 expression in the absence of CHIP is associated with decreased SirT6 promoter occupancy, which increases histone acetylation and promotes downstream gene transcription in CHIP-depleted cells. Cells lacking CHIP are hypersensitive to DNA-damaging agents, but DNA repair and cell viability are rescued by enforced expression of SirT6. The discovery of this CHIP-SirT6 interaction represents a novel protein-stabilizing mechanism and defines an intersection between protein quality control and epigenetic regulation to influence pathways that regulate the biology of aging. 
The ubiquitin receptor DA1 interacts with the E3 ubiquitin ligase DA2 to regulate seed and organ size in Arabidopsis.	Seed size in higher plants is determined by the coordinated growth of the embryo, endosperm, and maternal tissue. Several factors that act maternally to regulate seed size have been identified, such as auxin response factor2, apetala2, KLUH, and DA1, but the genetic and molecular mechanisms of these factors in seed size control are almost totally unknown. We previously demonstrated that the ubiquitin receptor DA1 acts synergistically with the E3 ubiquitin ligase enhancer1 OF DA1 (EOD1)/big brother to regulate the final size of seeds in Arabidopsis thaliana. Here, we describe another RING-type protein with E3 ubiquitin ligase activity, encoded by DA2, which regulates seed size by restricting cell proliferation in the maternal integuments of developing seeds. The da2-1 mutant forms large seeds, while overexpression of DA2 decreases seed size of wild-type plants. Overexpression of rice (Oryza sativa) grain width and weight2, a homolog of DA2, restricts seed growth in Arabidopsis. Genetic analyses show that DA2 functions synergistically with DA1 to regulate seed size, but does so independently of EOD1. Further results reveal that DA2 interacts physically with DA1 in vitro and in vivo. Therefore, our findings define the genetic and molecular mechanisms of three ubiquitin-related proteins DA1, DA2, and EOD1 in seed size control and indicate that they are promising targets for crop improvement.
ASB2, an E3 ubiquitin ligase specificity subunit, regulates cell spreading and triggers proteasomal degradation of filamins by targeting the filamin calponin homology 1 domain.	Filamins are actin-binding and cross-linking proteins that organize the actin cytoskeleton and anchor transmembrane proteins to the cytoskeleton and scaffold signaling pathways. During hematopoietic cell differentiation, transient expression of ASB2, the specificity subunit of an E3-ubiquitin ligase complex, triggers acute proteasomal degradation of filamins. This led to the proposal that ASB2 regulates hematopoietic cell differentiation by modulating cell adhesion, spreading, and actin remodeling through targeted degradation of filamins. Here, we show that the calponin homology domain 1 (CH1), within the filamin A (FLNa) actin-binding domain, is the minimal fragment sufficient for ASB2-mediated degradation. Combining an in-depth flow cytometry analysis with mutagenesis of lysine residues within CH1, we find that arginine substitution at each of a cluster of three lysines (Lys-42, Lys-43, and Lys-135) renders FLNa resistant to ASB2-mediated degradation without altering ASB2 binding. These lysines lie within previously predicted actin-binding sites, and the ASB2-resistant filamin mutant is defective in targeting to F-actin-rich structures in cells. However, by swapping CH1 with that of -actinin1, which is resistant to ASB2-mediated degradation, we generated an ASB2-resistant chimeric FLNa with normal subcellular localization. Notably, this chimera fully rescues the impaired cell spreading induced by ASB2 expression. Our data therefore reveal ubiquitin acceptor sites in FLNa and establish that ASB2-mediated effects on cell spreading are due to loss of filamins. 
BMP signaling controls muscle mass.	Cell size is determined by the balance between protein synthesis and degradation. This equilibrium is affected by hormones, nutrients, energy levels, mechanical stress and cytokines. Mutations that inactivate myostatin lead to excessive muscle growth in animals and humans, but the signals and pathways responsible for this hypertrophy remain largely unknown. Here we show that bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling, acting through Smad1, Smad5 and Smad8 (Smad1/5/8), is the fundamental hypertrophic signal in mice. Inhibition of BMP signaling causes muscle atrophy, abolishes the hypertrophic phenotype of myostatin-deficient mice and strongly exacerbates the effects of denervation and fasting. BMP-Smad1/5/8 signaling negatively regulates a gene (Fbxo30) that encodes a ubiquitin ligase required for muscle loss, which we named muscle ubiquitin ligase of the SCF complex in atrophy-1 (MUSA1). Collectively, these data identify a critical role for the BMP pathway in adult muscle maintenance, growth and atrophy.
Physical and genetic associations of the Irc20 ubiquitin ligase with Cdc48 and SUMO.	A considerable percentage of the genome is dedicated to the ubiquitin-proteasome system, with the yeast genome predicted to encode approximately 100 ubiquitin ligases (or E3s), and the human genome predicted to encode more than 600 E3s. The most abundant class of E3s consists of RING finger-containing proteins. Although many insights have been obtained regarding the structure and catalytic mechanism of the E3s, much remains to be learned about the function of the individual E3s. Here we characterize IRC20, which encodes a dual RING- and Snf/Swi family ATPase domain-containing protein in yeast that has been implicated in DNA repair. We found that overexpression of IRC20 causes two transcription-associated phenotypes and demonstrate that the Irc20 RING domain possesses ubiquitin E3 activity in vitro. Two mass spectrometry approaches were undertaken to identify Irc20-associated proteins. Wild-type Irc20 associated with Cdc48, a AAA-ATPase that serves as an intermediary in the ubiquitin-proteasome system. A second approach using a RING mutant derivative of Irc20 detected increased association of the Irc20 mutant with SUMO. These findings provide a foundation for understanding the roles of Irc20 in transcription and DNA repair. 
Genetic analysis of PARK2 and PINK1 genes in Brazilian patients with early-onset Parkinson's disease.	Parkinson's disease is the second most frequent neurodegenerative disorder in the world, affecting 1-2% of individuals over the age of 65. The etiology of Parkinson's disease is complex, with the involvement of gene-environment interactions. Although it is considered a disease of late manifestation, early-onset forms of parkinsonism contribute to 5-10% of all cases. In the present study, we screened mutations in coding regions of PARK2 and PINK1 genes in 136 unrelated Brazilian patients with early-onset Parkinson's disease through automatic sequencing. We identified six missense variants in PARK2 gene: one known pathogenic mutation, two variants of uncertain role, and three nonpathogenic changes. No pathogenic mutation was identified in PINK1 gene, only benign polymorphisms. All putative pathogenic variants found in this study were in heterozygous state. Our data show that PARK2 point mutations are more common in Brazilian early-onset Parkinson's disease patients (2.9%) than PINK1 missense variants (0%), corroborating other studies worldwide. 
Region-specific impairments in striatal synaptic transmission and impaired instrumental learning in a mouse model of Angelman syndrome.	Angelman syndrome (AS) is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by mental retardation and impaired speech. Because patients with this disorder often exhibit motor tremor and stereotypical behaviors, which are associated with basal ganglia pathology, we hypothesized that AS is accompanied by abnormal functioning of the striatum, the input nucleus of the basal ganglia. Using mutant mice with maternal deficiency of AS E6-AP ubiquitin protein ligase Ube3a (Ube3a(m-/p+) ), we assessed the effects of Ube3a deficiency on instrumental conditioning, a striatum-dependent task. We used whole-cell patch-clamp recording to measure glutamatergic transmission in the dorsomedial striatum (DMS) and dorsolateral striatum (DLS). Ube3a(m-/p+) mice were severely impaired in initial acquisition of lever pressing. Whereas the lever pressing of wild-type controls was reduced by outcome devaluation and instrumental contingency reversal, the performance of Ube3a(m-/p+) mice were more habitual, impervious to changes in outcome value and action-outcome contingency. In the DMS, but not the DLS, Ube3a(m-/p+) mice showed reduced amplitude and frequency of miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents. These results show for the first time a selective deficit in instrumental conditioning in the Ube3a deficient mouse model, and suggest a specific impairment in glutmatergic transmission in the associative corticostriatal circuit in AS. 
HSP72 is a mitochondrial stress sensor critical for Parkin action, oxidative metabolism, and insulin sensitivity in skeletal muscle.	Increased heat shock protein (HSP) 72 expression in skeletal muscle prevents obesity and glucose intolerance in mice, although the underlying mechanisms of this observation are largely unresolved. Herein we show that HSP72 is a critical regulator of stress-induced mitochondrial triage signaling since Parkin, an E3 ubiquitin ligase known to regulate mitophagy, was unable to ubiquitinate and control its own protein expression or that of its central target mitofusin (Mfn) in the absence of HSP72. In wild-type cells, we show that HSP72 rapidly translocates to depolarized mitochondria prior to Parkin recruitment and immunoprecipitates with both Parkin and Mfn2 only after specific mitochondrial insult. In HSP72 knockout mice, impaired Parkin action was associated with retention of enlarged, dysmorphic mitochondria and paralleled by reduced muscle respiratory capacity, lipid accumulation, and muscle insulin resistance. Reduced oxygen consumption and impaired insulin action were recapitulated in Parkin-null myotubes, confirming a role for the HSP72-Parkin axis in the regulation of muscle insulin sensitivity. These data suggest that strategies to maintain HSP72 may provide therapeutic benefit to enhance mitochondrial quality and insulin action to ameliorate complications associated with metabolic diseases, including type 2 diabetes. 
E3 ubiquitin ligases and human papillomavirus-induced carcinogenesis.	Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is clinically very common. It is usually a major risk factor in the development of cutaneous benign lesions, cervical cancer and a variety of other malignancies. The biological function of ubiquitination as an intracellular proteasomal-mediated form of protein degradation and an important modulator in the regulation of many fundamental cellular processes has been increasingly recognized over the last decade. HPV proteins have been demonstrated to evolve different strategies to utilize the ubiquitin system for their own purposes. The putative roles of E3 ubiquitin ligases in HPV-induced carcinogenesis have become increasingly apparent, although the mechanisms remain unclear. In this review we provide an update on the mechanisms of the involvement of E3 ubiquitin ligases in HPV-induced carcinogenesis, focusing on their interaction with HPV proteins and their roles in several signalling pathways. Targeting the E3 ubiquitin ligases might offer potential therapeutic strategies for HPV-related diseases in future. 
A selected group of large common fragile site genes have decreased expression in oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas.	The common fragile sites (CFSs) are large regions of profound genomic instability found in all individuals. The frequent deletions and other alterations in these regions in multiple cancers has led to the discovery of a number of extremely large genes contained within these regions and several of the large CFS genes have already been demonstrated to function as tumor suppressors involved in the formation of many different cancers. To study the large CFS genes in oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC), we did RNA seq analysis from 11 head and neck cancer patients. This revealed that there are six large CFS genes which consistently had decreased expression in the tumor samples compared to their matched normal tissues. These six genes are PARK2, DLG2, NBEA, CTNNA3, DMD, and FHIT. PARK2 and FHIT are located within the two most frequently expressed CFSs and both have been demonstrated to function as tumor suppressors, while the other large genes are found to have frequent alterations in multiple cancers. Validation experiments using real time PCR indicated that over 60% of OPSCC tumors showed decreased expression for all six genes. Both HPV-positive and HPV-negative OPSCCs had similar proportions with loss of expression of these genes. Our results suggest that this selected group of large genes might serve as potential tumor suppressors involved in the development of OPSCCs. Further studies are needed to investigate whether the decreased expression observed is due to genomic instability within the CFS regions or the selection for alterations of specific large CFS genes.
A novel feed-forward loop between ARIH2 E3-ligase and PABPN1 regulates aging-associated muscle degeneration.	Alanine expansion mutations in poly(A)-binding protein nuclear 1 (PABPN1) cause muscle weakness in the late-onset disorder oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy. In affected muscles, expanded PABPN1 forms nuclear aggregates, depleting levels of soluble PABPN1 and inducing a genome-wide shift from distal to proximal polyadenylation site usage. PABPN1 protein accumulation is regulated by the ubiquitin proteasome system, which is highly dysregulated in oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy. We show that ARIH2 E3-ligase regulates PABPN1 protein accumulation and aggregation. Levels of ARIH2 mRNA are regulated by PABPN1 via proximal polyadenylation site usage. We demonstrate that masking the proximal polyadenylation site in ARIH2 3' untranslated region by antisense oligonucleotides elevates the expression of ARIH2 and PABPN1 and restores myogenic defects that are induced by ARIH2 or PABPN1 down-regulation in cell culture. Invivo ARIH2 mRNA levels significantly decrease from midlife in vastus lateralis muscles and highly correlate with muscle degeneration. We suggest that the expression of both genes is maintained by a feed-forward loop between mRNA stability regulated by PABPN1 and protein turnover regulated by ARIH2. 
Hepatic cytochrome P450 ubiquitination: conformational phosphodegrons for E2/E3 recognition?	Hepatic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) integral cytochromes P450 (P450s) are monooxygenases engaged in the biotransformation and elimination of endo- as well as xenobiotics. Of the human liver P450s, CYP3A4 is the major and most dominant catalyst responsible for the biotransformation of over 50% of clinically prescribed drugs. CYP2E1 metabolizes smaller molecular weight compounds (EtOH), carcinogens, environmental toxins, and endobiotics, and is justly implicated in various toxigenic/pathogenic mechanisms of human disease. Both P450s are notorious for their potential to generate pathogenic reactive oxygen species (ROS) during futile oxidative cycling and/or oxidative uncoupling. Such ROS not only oxidatively damage the P450 catalytic cage, but on their escape into the cytosol, also the P450 outer surface and any surrounding cell organelles. Given their ER-monotopic topology coupled with this high potential to acquire oxidative lesions in their cytosolic (C) domain, not surprisingly these P450 proteins exhibit shorter lifespans and are excellent prototype substrates of ER-associated degradation ("ERAD-C") pathway. Indeed, we have shown that both CYP3A4 and CYP2E1 incur ERAD-C, during which they are first phosphorylated by protein kinases A and C, which greatly enhance/accelerate their ubiquitination by UBC7/gp78 and UbcH5a/CHIP/Hsp70/Hsp40 E2/E3 ubiquitin ligase complexes. Such P450 phosphorylation occurs on Ser/Thr residues within linear sequences as well as spatially clustered acidic (Asp/Glu) residues. We propose that such S/T phosphorylation within these clusters creates negatively charged patches or conformational phosphodegrons for interaction with positively charged E2/E3 domains. Such P450 S/T phosphorylation we posit serves as a molecular switch to turn on its ubiquitination and ERAD-C.
Heterologous expression of the gourd E3 ubiquitin ligase gene LsRZF1 compromises the drought stress tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana.	Protein ubiquitination is one of the major regulatory processes used by eukaryotic cells. The ubiquitin E3 ligase acts as a main determinant of substrate specificity. However, the precise roles of E3 ligase in plants to drought stress are poorly understood. In this study, a gourd family (Lagenaria siceraria) ortholog of Arabidopsis thaliana RING Zinc Finger 1 (AtRZF1) gene, designated LsRZF1, was identified and characterized. LsRZF1 was reduced by abscisic acid (ABA), osmotic stress, and drought conditions. Compared to wild type, transgenic Arabidopsis plants ectopic expressing LsRZF1 were hypersensitive to ABA and osmotic stress during early seedling development, indicating that LsRZF1 negatively regulates drought-mediated control of early seedling development. Moreover, the ectopic expression of the LsRZF1 gene was very influential in drought sensitive parameters including proline content, water loss, and the expression of dehydration stress-related genes. Furthermore, ubiquitin E3 ligase activity and genetic data indicate that AtRZF1 and LsRZF1 function in similar pathway to control proline metabolism in Arabidopsis under drought condition. Together, these results suggest that the E3 ligase LsRZF1 is an important regulator of water deficit stress during early seedling development. 
Etoposide resistance in MCF-7 breast cancer cell line is marked by multiple mechanisms.	Acquired or intrinsic drug resistance is one of the major handicaps in the success of chemotherapy. Etoposide is a topoisomerase II poison widely used in chemotherapy. Similar to other topoisomerase inhibitors and DNA damaging agents, resistance to etoposide may arise as a result of alterations in target expression and activity, increased drug efflux and alterations in DNA damage response mechanisms. Here, we tested the involvement of such mechanisms in etoposide-resistant MCF-7 breast cancer cells.
Resveratrol prevents TNF--induced muscle atrophy via regulation of Akt/mTOR/FoxO1 signaling in C2C12 myotubes.	Muscle atrophy poses a serious concern to patients inflicted with inflammatory diseases. There is now increasing evidence which suggests a vital role for tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-) in muscle pathology associated with impairment of differentiation and muscle wasting. Resveratrol has been an ascribed inhibitory effect on glucocorticoid-induced muscle atrophy in vitro, but the influence of resveratrol on the growth of C2C12 myotubes exposed to TNF- remains unclear. The present study aimed to investigate the involvement of TNF- in the regulation of skeletal muscle hypertrophy and atrophy, and the possibility to interfere with such modulations by means of resveratrol supplementation. For this purpose, C2C12 myotubes were treated with TNF- in the presence or absence of resveratrol. Myotube treatment with TNF- contributes to both hyperexpression of the muscle-specific ubiquitin ligase MAFbx and MuRF1, and these alterations are linked to a decrease of anabolic targets (Akt, mTOR, p70S6k and 4E-BP1) and an increase of catabolic targets (FoxO1, FoxO3a, MAFbx and MuRF1). Resveratrol supplementation effectively counteracts TNF- induced muscle protein loss and reverses declining expression of Akt, mTOR, p70S6K, 4E-BP1and FoxO1, but exerts no influence of FoxO3a expression. Our study demonstrates that resveratrol can reverse the muscle cell atrophy caused by TNF- through regulation of the Akt/mTOR/FoxO1 signaling pathways, followed by inhibition of the atrophy-related ubiquitin ligase. Our findings suggested that resveratrol could represent a possible strategy to improve muscle mass. 
E3-ligase Skp2 regulates -catenin expression and maintains hematopoietic stem cell homing.	The homing ability of hematopoietic stem cells (HSCs) was a critical step for transplantation and subsequent hematopoiesis. Although the HSC transplantation was widely used for many diseases, the mechanism by which HSC homing was regulated remained poorly understood. F-box protein S-phase kinase associated protein2 (Skp2), a component of the Skp2-SCF E3 ligase complex, was regarded as a cell cycle regulator by controlling the level of p21 and p27 through ubiquitination. We recently reported an important role of Skp2 in maintaining HSC pool size, quiescent stage and self-renewal ability. In this current study, we showed that Skp2 was a novel and critical regulator for maintaining the homing of HSCs as well as their residence in the endosteal niche. Microarray analysis together with biochemical validations revealed that Skp2 deficiency profoundly reduced the expression of -catenin and its target genes. Knockdown of -catenin mimicked the decline of HSC homing upon Skp2 deficiency, suggesting that Skp2 may regulate -catenin and its target gene expression to orchestrate HSC homing. Our study not only identified Skp2 as a new regulator for maintaining -catenin expression and HSC homing, but also suggested that Skp2 may serve as a predictive marker for monitoring the transplantation efficiency. 
Functional characterization of Anaphase Promoting Complex/Cyclosome (APC/C) E3 ubiquitin ligases in tumorigenesis.	The Anaphase Promoting Complex/Cyclosome (APC/C) is a multi-subunit E3 ubiquitin ligase that primarily governs cell cycle progression. APC/C is composed of at least 14 core subunits and recruits its substrates for ubiquitination via one of the two adaptor proteins, Cdc20 or Cdh1, in M or M/early G1 phase, respectively. Furthermore, recent studies have shed light on crucial functions for APC/C in maintaining genomic integrity, neuronal differentiation, cellular metabolism and tumorigenesis. To gain better insight into the in vivo physiological functions of APC/C in regulating various cellular processes, particularly development and tumorigenesis, a number of mouse models of APC/C core subunits, coactivators or inhibitors have been established and characterized. However, due to their essential role in cell cycle regulation, most of the germline knockout mice targeting the APC/C pathway are embryonic lethal, indicating the need for generating conditional knockout mouse models to assess the role in tumorigenesis for each APC/C signaling component in specific tissues. In this review, we will first provide a brief introduction of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) and the biochemical activities and cellular functions of the APC/C E3 ligase. We will then focus primarily on characterizing genetic mouse models used to understand the physiological roles of each APC/C signaling component in embryogenesis, cell proliferation, development and carcinogenesis. Finally, we discuss future research directions to further elucidate the physiological contributions of APC/C components during tumorigenesis and validate their potentials as a novel class of anti-cancer targets. 
Mutations in the human UBR1 gene and the associated phenotypic spectrum.	Johanson-Blizzard syndrome (JBS) is a rare, autosomal recessive disorder characterized by exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, typical facial features, dental anomalies, hypothyroidism, sensorineural hearing loss, scalp defects, urogenital and anorectal anomalies, short stature, and cognitive impairment of variable degree. This syndrome is caused by a defect of the E3 ubiquitin ligase UBR1, which is part of the proteolytic N-end rule pathway. Herein, we review previously reported (n=29) and a total of 31 novel UBR1 mutations in relation to the associated phenotype in patients from 50 unrelated families. Mutation types include nonsense, frameshift, splice site, missense, and small in-frame deletions consistent with the hypothesis that loss of UBR1 protein function is the molecular basis of JBS. There is an association of missense mutations and small in-frame deletions with milder physical abnormalities and a normal intellectual capacity, thus suggesting that at least some of these may represent hypomorphic UBR1 alleles. The review of clinical data of a large number of molecularly confirmed JBS cases allows us to define minimal clinical criteria for the diagnosis of JBS. For all previously reported and novel UBR1 mutations together with their clinical data, a mutation database has been established at LOVD. 
The trans-activator RNF12 and cis-acting elements effectuate X chromosome inactivation independent of X-pairing.	X chromosome inactivation (XCI) in female placental mammals is a vital mechanism for dosage compensation between X-linked and autosomal genes. XCI starts with activation of Xist and silencing of the negative regulator Tsix, followed by cis spreading of Xist RNA over the future inactive X chromosome (Xi). Here, we show that XCI does not require physical contact between the two X chromosomes (X-pairing) but is regulated by trans-acting diffusible factors. We found that the X-encoded trans-acting and dose-dependent XCI-activator RNF12 acts in concert with the cis-regulatory region containing Jpx, Ftx, and Xpr to activate Xist and to overcome repression by Tsix. RNF12 acts at two subsequent steps; two active copies of Rnf12 drive initiation of XCI, and one copy needs to remain active to maintain XCI toward establishment of the Xi. This two-step mechanism ensures that XCI is very robust and fine-tuned, preventing XCI of both X chromosomes. 
Ubiquitylation by the Ltn1 E3 ligase protects 60S ribosomes from starvation-induced selective autophagy.	Autophagy, the process by which proteins or organelles are engulfed by autophagosomes and delivered for vacuolar/lysosomal degradation, is induced to ensure survival under starvation and other stresses. A selective autophagic pathway for 60S ribosomal subunits elicited by nitrogen starvation in yeast-ribophagy-was recently described and requires the Ubp3-Bre5 deubiquitylating enzyme. This discovery implied that an E3 ligases act upstream, whether inhibiting the process or providing an initial required signal. In this paper, we show that Ltn1/Rkr1, a 60S ribosome-associated E3 implicated in translational surveillance, acts as an inhibitor of 60S ribosomal subunit ribophagy and is antagonized by Ubp3. The ribosomal protein Rpl25 is a relevant target. Its ubiquitylation is Ltn1 dependent and Ubp3 reversed, and mutation of its ubiquitylation site rendered ribophagy less dependent on Ubp3. Consistently, the expression of Ltn1-but not Ubp3-rapidly decreased after starvation, presumably to allow ribophagy to proceed. Thus, Ltn1 and Ubp3-Bre5 likely contribute to adapt ribophagy activity to both nutrient supply and protein translation. 
Huwe1-mediated ubiquitylation of dishevelled defines a negative feedback loop in the Wnt signaling pathway.	Wnt signaling plays a central role in development, adult tissue homeostasis, and cancer. Several steps in the canonical Wnt/-catenin signaling cascade are regulated by ubiquitylation, a protein modification that influences the stability, subcellular localization, or interactions of target proteins. To identify regulators of the Wnt/-catenin pathway, we performed an RNA interference screen in Caenorhabditis elegans and identified the HECT domain-containing ubiquitin ligase EEL-1 as an inhibitor of Wnt signaling. In human embryonic kidney 293T cells, knockdown of the EEL-1 homolog Huwe1 enhanced the activity of a Wnt reporter in cells stimulated with Wnt3a or in cells that overexpressed casein kinase 1 (CK1) or a constitutively active mutant of the Wnt co-receptor low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein 6 (LRP6). However, knockdown of Huwe1 had no effect on reporter gene expression in cells expressing constitutively active -catenin, suggesting that Huwe1 inhibited Wnt signaling upstream of -catenin and downstream of CK1 and LRP6. Huwe1 bound to and ubiquitylated the cytoplasmic Wnt pathway component Dishevelled (Dvl) in a Wnt3a- and CK1-dependent manner. Mass spectrometric analysis showed that Huwe1 promoted K63-linked, but not K48-linked, polyubiquitination of Dvl. Instead of targeting Dvl for degradation, ubiquitylation of the DIX domain of Dvl by Huwe1 inhibited Dvl multimerization, which is necessary for its function. Our findings indicate that Huwe1 is part of an evolutionarily conserved negative feedback loop in the Wnt/-catenin pathway.
Photoactivated UVR8-COP1 module determines photomorphogenic UV-B signaling output in Arabidopsis.	In Arabidopsis, ultraviolet (UV)-B-induced photomorphogenesis is initiated by a unique photoreceptor UV resistance locus 8 (UVR8) which utilizes its tryptophan residues as internal chromophore to sense UV-B. As a result of UV-B light perception, the UVR8 homodimer shaped by its arginine residues undergoes a conformational switch of monomerization. Then UVR8 associates with the constitutively photomorphogenic 1-suppressor of PHYA (COP1-SPA) core complex(es) that is released from the cullin 4-damaged dna binding protein 1 (CUL4-DDB1) E3 apparatus. This association, in turn, causes COP1 to convert from a repressor to a promoter of photomorphogenesis. It is not fully understood, however, regarding the biological significance of light-absorbing and dimer-stabilizing residues for UVR8 activity in photomorphogenic UV-B signaling. Here, we take advantage of transgenic UVR8 variants to demonstrate that two light-absorbing tryptophans, W233 and W285, and two dimer-stabilizing arginines, R286 and R338, play pivotal roles in UV-B-induced photomorphogenesis. Mutation of each residue results in alterations in UV-B light perception, UVR8 monomerization and UVR8-COP1 association in response to photomorphogenic UV-B. We also identify and functionally characterize two constitutively active UVR8 variants, UVR8W285A and UVR8R338A, whose photobiological activities are enhanced by the repression of CUL4, a negative regulator in this pathway. Based on our molecular and biochemical evidence, we propose that the UVR8-COP1 affinity in plants critically determines the photomorphogenic UV-B signal transduction coupling with UVR8-mediated UV-B light perception.
Parkin is activated by PINK1-dependent phosphorylation of ubiquitin at Ser65.	We have previously reported that the Parkinson's disease-associated kinase PINK1 (PTEN-induced putative kinase 1) is activated by mitochondrial depolarization and stimulates the Parkin E3 ligase by phosphorylating Ser65 within its Ubl (ubiquitin-like) domain. Using phosphoproteomic analysis, we identified a novel ubiquitin phosphopeptide phosphorylated at Ser65 that was enriched 14-fold in HEK (human embryonic kidney)-293 cells overexpressing wild-type PINK1 stimulated with the mitochondrial uncoupling agent CCCP (carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone), to activate PINK1, compared with cells expressing kinase-inactive PINK1. Ser65 in ubiquitin lies in a similar motif to Ser65 in the Ubl domain of Parkin. Remarkably, PINK1 directly phosphorylates Ser65 of ubiquitin invitro. We undertook a series of experiments that provide striking evidence that Ser65-phosphorylated ubiquitin (ubiquitinPhospho-Ser65) functions as a critical activator of Parkin. First, we demonstrate that a fragment of Parkin lacking the Ubl domain encompassing Ser65 (Ubl-Parkin) is robustly activated by ubiquitinPhospho-Ser65, but not by non-phosphorylated ubiquitin. Secondly, we find that the isolated Parkin Ubl domain phosphorylated at Ser65 (UblPhospho-Ser65) can also activate Ubl-Parkin similarly to ubiquitinPhospho-Ser65. Thirdly, we establish that ubiquitinPhospho-Ser65, but not non-phosphorylated ubiquitin or UblPhospho-Ser65, activates full-length wild-type Parkin as well as the non-phosphorylatable S65A Parkin mutant. Fourthly, we provide evidence that optimal activation of full-length Parkin E3 ligase is dependent on PINK1-mediated phosphorylation of both Parkin at Ser65 and ubiquitin at Ser65, since only mutation of both proteins at Ser65 completely abolishes Parkin activation. In conclusion, the findings of the present study reveal that PINK1 controls Parkin E3 ligase activity not only by phosphorylating Parkin at Ser65, but also by phosphorylating ubiquitin at Ser65. We propose that phosphorylation of Parkin at Ser65 serves to prime the E3 ligase enzyme for activation by ubiquitinPhospho-Ser65, suggesting that small molecules that mimic ubiquitinPhospho-Ser65 could hold promise as novel therapies for Parkinson's disease. 
Identification of TRAF6 as a ubiquitin ligase engaged in the ubiquitination of SopB, a virulence effector protein secreted by Salmonella typhimurium.	The phosphoinositide phosphatase SopB is one of the effectors injected by Salmonella typhimurium (S.typhimurium) that diversifies its function through a ubiquitin-dependent differential localization. However, it is unclear which E3 ubiquitin ligase is responsible for ubiquitination of SopB. Based on the E1-E2-E3 trio of enzymes responsible for the ubiquitin activation and translocation to substrate proteins, we constructed an in vitro assay of SopB ubiquitination. Using this assay, we purified an E3 ubiquitin ligase, TRAF6, from the Henle-407 S100 extraction that may be responsible for the ubiquitination of SopB. To investigate the functional correlation of TRAF6, we showed that recombinant TRAF6 specifically ubiquitinates SopB in a dose-dependent manner in vitro. Upon infection, the ubiquitination of SopB was absolutely blocked by TRAF6 deletion, as shown in Traf6(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) compared with Traf6(+/+) MEFs. However, the ectopic expression of TRAF6 in Traf6(-/-) MEFs rescued the two species of ubiquitin-conjugated SopB, which strengthens the role of TRAF6 in SopB ubiquitination. The analysis of E2 revealed that UbcH5c and not other E2 conjugating enzymes are required for TRAF6-mediated SopB ubiquitination both in vitro and in vivo. In summary, these results suggest the relevance of UbcH5c/TRAF6 in SopB during S.typhimurium infection and thereby imply that S.typhimurium has evolved a mechanism of utilizing the host's E3 ubiquitin ligase to modify and modulate the function of its effector protein in order to ensure pathogen and host cell survival.
Phenotype and frequency of STUB1 mutations: next-generation screenings in Caucasian ataxia and spastic paraplegia cohorts.	Mutations in the gene STUB1, encoding the protein CHIP (C-terminus of HSC70-interacting protein), have recently been suggested as a cause of recessive ataxia based on the findings in few Chinese families. Here we aimed to investigate the phenotypic and genotypic spectrum of STUB1 mutations, and to assess their frequency in different Caucasian disease cohorts.
Analysis of mutations in patients with suspected autosomal dominant form of the Parkinson disease]	The Parkinson disease (PD) is a severe neurological disorder. Diverse genetic systems and environmental factors are involved in the pathogenesis of this disease. However, despite extensive research into the disease, its causes are not fully elucidated, and the exact spectrum of genes and mutations involved in the development of hereditary forms of PD has not been fully clarified yet. The present work is devoted to the analysis of mutations that lead to the development of monogenic forms of PD in patients with suspected autosomal dominant form of PD using Multiplex Ligation-dependent Probe Amplification (MLPA). We have identified several mutations (G2019S in LRRK2, heterozygous deletions of 2-3, 3-4 exons and heterozygous duplication of 2-4 exons in PARK2, deletion of 3 exon in PARK7) that lead to the development of PD in only 7 people out of 70 (18.4%), which suggests the need for further search of new mutations, for example, using exome sequencing. In the future it will help to develop the molecular genetic tests for early preclinical diagnosis and risk evaluation of the development of PD, and to understand better the causes and mechanisms of this disease.
