Structure of the ubiquitin hydrolase UCH-L3 complexed with a suicide substrate.	Ubiquitin C-terminal hydrolases (UCHs) comprise a family of small ubiquitin-specific proteases of uncertain function. Although no cellular substrates have been identified for UCHs, their highly tissue-specific expression patterns and the association of UCH-L1 mutations with human disease strongly suggest a critical role. The structure of the yeast UCH Yuh1-ubiquitin aldehyde complex identified an active site crossover loop predicted to limit the size of suitable substrates. We report the 1.45 A resolution crystal structure of human UCH-L3 in complex with the inhibitor ubiquitin vinylmethylester, an inhibitor that forms a covalent adduct with the active site cysteine of ubiquitin-specific proteases. This structure confirms the predicted mechanism of the inhibitor and allows the direct comparison of a UCH family enzyme in the free and ligand-bound state. We also show the efficient hydrolysis by human UCH-L3 of a 13-residue peptide in isopeptide linkage with ubiquitin, consistent with considerable flexibility in UCH substrate size. We propose a model for the catalytic cycle of UCH family members which accounts for the hydrolysis of larger ubiquitin conjugates.
The deubiquitinating protein USP24 interacts with DDB2 and regulates DDB2 stability.	Damage-specific DNA-binding protein 2 (DDB2) was first isolated as a subunit of the UV-DDB heterodimeric complex that is involved in DNA damage recognition in the nucleotide excision repair pathway (NER). DDB2 is required for efficient repair of CPDs in chromatin and is a component of the CRL4 (DDB2)  E3 ligase that targets XPC, histones and DDB2 itself for ubiquitination. In this study, a yeast two-hybrid screening of a human cDNA library was performed to identify potential DDB2 cellular partners. We identified a deubiquitinating enzyme, USP24, as a likely DDB2-interacting partner. Interaction between DDB2 and USP24 was confirmed by co-precipitation. Importantly, knockdown of USP24 in two human cell lines decreased the steady-state levels of DDB2, indicating that USP24-mediated DDB2 deubiquitination prevents DDB2 degradation. In addition, we demonstrated that USP24 can cleave an ubiquitinated form of DDB2 in vitro. Taken together, our results suggest that the ubiquitin-specific protease USP24 is a novel regulator of DDB2 stability.
Selective and reversible inhibitors of ubiquitin-specific protease 7: a patent evaluation (WO2013030218).	The invention described in this review (WO2013030218) relates to compounds based on the quinazolin-4-one scaffold, their process of preparation and applications to inhibit the ubiquitin-specific protease 7 (USP7), a deubiquitinating enzyme (DUB), which is considered a potentially important new drug target for treating cancer and immunological disorders. Data are presented indicating that these small-molecule compounds are useful as selective and reversible inhibitors of USP7 in vitro and also in a cellular context, although the panel of other enzymes tested was limited. The synthesis strategy allows for the generation of a considerable variety of compounds, although similar properties of selective USP7 inhibition were reported for other related compound classes, thereby increasing the complexity of the patenting process. However, structural patterns that contribute to the selectivity of USP7 and other DUB enzyme inhibition are starting to emerge. Practical implications involve the treatment of cancer, neurodegenerative diseases, immunological disorders, diabetes, bone and joint diseases, cardiovascular diseases and viral and bacterial infections. The quality of these findings and a comparison to other compound classes with similar properties, as well as the potential for further development toward clinical exploitation are discussed. 
