Arterialization of the venous system of the hand.	The treatment of hand ischemia can be very challenging. In cases in which there are no reconstructible arterial lesions, treatment options are limited. Arterialization of the venous system of the hand is a straightforward surgical procedure that provides arterial blood to the distal soft tissues of an ischemic hand.
Application of skin flaps with supra-carpal cutaneous branch of the ulnar artery and dorsal carpal branch of the anterior interosseous artery in reconstruction of complicated amputaled palm]	To investigate the clinical efficacy of carpal branch of ulnar artery skin flap and dorsal carpal branch of anterior interosseous artery skin flap in replantation of complicated severed hand.
Ruptured ulnar artery pseudoaneurysm.	Ulnar artery aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms are rare lesions that usually occur distal to the wrist and cause symptoms as a result of embolization and not rupture. An elderly woman presented with acute rupture of an ulnar artery pseudoaneurysm proximal to the wrist, which caused severe neurologic compromise as a result of bleeding into Guyon's canal and the carpal tunnel. The patient had a remote wrist fracture resulting in a deformity that allowed the ulnar head to be in proximity to the ulnar artery. Rupture of the volar capsule with chronic abrasion of the artery eventually led to pseudoaneurysm formation and subsequent rupture. Emergency operative treatment with excision of the pseudoaneurysm, ulnar artery ligation, and repair of the volar capsule resulted in complete neurologic recovery without vascular compromise. This case is unique because of the proximal location of the pseudoaneurysm and the presentation with rupture. The anatomy, pathogenesis, and treatment options are discussed. Excision of the pseudoaneurysm with repair of the torn volar capsule is recommended to avoid recurrent problems. Vascular reconstruction is needed in cases where radial arterial flow is inadequate.
Doppler ultrasonography as a pre-operative aid to base the forearm flap on the radial or ulnar artery.	The elevation of a forearm flap based on the ulnar artery has been described as an alternative to a flap based on the radial artery. Despite the fact that 15-30% of operated patients complain of symptoms in the hand due to impaired circulation, this flap is still regularly raised upon the radial artery. Using Doppler ultrasonographic examination before elevating the forearm flap, the dominant artery to the hand can be determined. The preliminary experience in 11 patients operated upon (the flap has been based upon the ulnar artery five times) is satisfactory. None complained of weakness of the hand, a feeling of coldness or cold intolerance.
