Medial oblique compression fracture of the coronoid process of the ulna.	The most widely recognized coronoid fractures have been described as occurring in the coronal plane according to the amount of process detached from the ulna. Over the last few years, we have recognized that the coronoid fracture is a much more complex injury than originally thought. This report calls attention to an oblique, medial compression fracture of the coronoid, a fracture so subtle as to be missed by routine assessment but sometimes associated with joint subluxation or dislocation. The currently accepted classification system based on a simple fracture pattern in the coronal plane may be too simplistic to characterize fractures of the coronoid fully.
Pediatric fractures of the forearm.	Forearm fractures are common injuries in childhood. There are a number of important principles that should be followed to achieve the ideal goal of fracture healing without deformity or dysfunction. I will review the general principles, classifications, diagnosis, treatment, and complications of pediatric forearm fractures, including some specific injuries such as Monteggia fractures, Galeazzi injuries, and open fractures. The basic principle is to accurately align the fracture fragments and to maintain this position until the fracture is united. Forearm fractures in children can be treated differently from adult fractures because of continuing growth in both bones (radius and ulna) after the fracture has healed. As long as the physes are open, remodeling can occur. However, generally it is thought that rotational deformity does not remodel. Undisplaced fractures may be treated in a cast until the fracture site is no longer painful. Most displaced fractures of the forearm are best maintained in a long arm cast. However, redisplacement occurs in 7 to 13% of cases, usually within 2 weeks of injury. Unstable metaphyseal fractures should be percutaneously pinned. Unstable diaphyseal fractures can be stabilized by intramedullary fixation of the radius and ulna. If none of these techniques is helpful, plate and screw fixation is the best choice.
Common pediatric elbow fractures.	Fractures of the elbow are a very common injury in children. The most common mechanism of injury is a fall on an outstretched upper extremity during play. Ranging in complexity from low-energy nondisplaced occult fractures to high-energy fractures with associated severe soft-tissue and neurovascular injuries, elbow fractures are a challenging problem for all pediatric healthcare providers. Because of the wide spectrum of fracture severity and associated bony and ligamentous injury, a very diverse spectrum of treatment modalities is necessary for optimal results. Management is based on fracture pattern, patient age and bone quality, extent of soft tissue damage, functional needs of the patient, and the presence of associated injuries. This article will give a brief overview of 4 common pediatric fractures, current treatment algorithms, and frequent complications associated with these injuries.
Combined fractures of the radius and the ulna at the elbow level in the adult. Analysis of 120 cases after more than 1 year]	The purpose of this study was to increase the knowledge about these rare and serious injuries and to produce guidelines for a more successful ORIF.
