Unusual presentation of ulnar artery aneurysm and dissection with associated anomalous radial artery: appearances on multi-detector row CT angiography.	We present a case of ulnar artery aneurysm and dissection associated with a congenitally hypoplastic ipsilateral radial artery. We postulate that the aetiology is due to increased blood flow through the ulnar artery as a consequence of the radial artery anomaly, therefore making the ulnar artery more vulnerable to aneurysm formation and traumatic damage. This might represent a variant of the hypothenar hammer syndrome with associated ulnar artery dissection and recurrent distal embolisation manifesting as Raynaud's phenomenon. Forearm arterial injuries, treatment and the importance of upper limb arterial anatomical variations are also discussed. To our knowledge, this is the first reported case of its type diagnosed by multi-detector row computed tomography angiography.
Fibromuscular dysplasia of distal radial and ulnar arteries: uncommon cause of digital ischemia.	Fibromuscular dysplasia is an uncommon angiopathy that is principally observed in the renal and carotid arteries. Digital ischemia resulting from fibromuscular dysplasia of the forearm arteries is a rare occurrence. This article describes a case of distal radial and ulnar artery fibromuscular dysplasia presenting as paresthesia, claudication, and finger ulceration. Angiography was diagnostic in visualizing the characteristic "string of beads" appearance. In addition to the typical histological findings, we also observed a previously undescribed pathological finding. Surgical management involved resection of the diseased segment and primary anastomosis.
Anatomic delineation of the ulnar nerve and ulnar artery in relation to the carpal tunnel by axial magnetic resonance imaging scanning.	In a number of publications the distal branches of both the ulnar artery and ulnar nerve have been identified as being positioned ulnar to the hook of the hamate. We undertook a magnetic resonance imaging project in patients who presented for carpal tunnel release to determine how far radially vital structures of Guyon's canal may be located and if they may overlap the carpal tunnel at the hook of the hamate. Cross-sectional magnetic resonance imaging scans of 20 patients were performed prior to carpal tunnel release with the wrist positioned in neutral, flexed, and extended positions. Linear measurements were made either radial or ulnar to the hook of the hamate taken as the reference point. In the neutral position, the ulnar nerve was found to be, on average, 3.6 mm ulnar to the hook of the hamate (range of 5.8 mm radial to 7.5 mm ulnar). The ulnar artery averaged 0.7 mm to the radial side of the hook of the hamate (range 7.8 mm radial to 2.8 mm ulnar). Guyon's canal extended 28% of the way across the carpal ligament (range 9 to 63%). With the wrist in flexion and extension, there was an ulnar displacement and a radial displacement, respectively, of these structures relative to the hook of the hamate.
Arterial reconstruction in the ischemic hand and wrist: effects on microvascular physiology and health-related quality of life.	Patients were evaluated before and after arterial reconstruction surgery (1) to define the physiology of the digital microcirculation in chronic subcritical ischemia, (2) to demonstrate the short-term effects of successful arterial reconstruction on microvascular flow, and (3) to document the effects of surgery on symptoms, function, and health-related quality of life. Arterial insufficiency was the result of a proximal reconstructible occlusive lesion, 1 or more distal unreconstructible occlusions, and secondary reactive vasospasm. Microvascular physiology was evaluated by monitoring digital temperatures, microvascular perfusion (laser Doppler fluxmetry) and perfusion patterns (laser Doppler perfusion patterns (laser Doppler perfusion imaging). Following successful vascular reconstruction, digital temperatures and microvascular perfusion improved significantly, approaching control levels. Although cold sensitivity was unchanged, symptoms decreased and upper extremity function and health-related quality of life improved after successful proximal reconstruction in patients with 2-level arterial occlusion.
