Innervation anomalies in upper and lower extremities (an electrophysiological study).	A hundred and eight subjects were studied for the frequent occurrence innervation anomalies in upper and lower extremities. Martin-Gruber Anomalies (MGA) were found in 19 (17.5%) subjects. The anomaly was bilateral in 14 subjects (73.6%). No case of motor ulnar to median nerve anastomosis in the forearm could be found. The 73.1, 20.8 and 14.3% incidences of the neural communication between the ulnar and median nerves in the hand were detected, in the Abductor Pollicis Brevis (APB), in the First Dorsal Interosseus (FDI) and in the Abductor Digiti Minimi (ADM) muscles, respectively. The existence of an accessory deep peroneal nerve was found in 23 (21.3%) subjects and 40 (18.5%) of legs. The anomaly was bilateral in 17 subjects (74%). We observed both MGA and accessory deep peroneal nerve in 9 cases.
Anatomic study and review of the literature on the Martin Gruber anastomosis]	We dissected 72 upper limbs of fresh cadavers and found 17 cases of the Martin-Gruber anastomosis. The incidence was 23.6%. They can be classified into 5 types. Type I (n = 5, 29.4%): Communication between the anterior interosseous and the ulnar nerves. Type II (n = 3, 17.6%): Communication between the median and the ulnar nerves. Type III (n = 3, 17.6%): Communication between the muscular branches of the flexor digitorum profundus muscle (FDP). Type IV (n = 3, 17.6%): Communication between the anterior interosseous and the ulnar nerves, the muscular branches of the flexor digitorum profundus muscle (FDP) originated from the connection. Type V (n = 3, 17.6%): The anastomotic branch originated from the median nerve and joined the ulnar at two different points as well as connecting with the ulnar branch of the FDP. Through histologic examination, we found the number and size of nerve fascicles which every connection contained to be very different. In one case of type II only one single nerve fascicle was found. We propose the hypothesis that the different amounts of nerve fascicles innervate different amounts of intrinsic hand musculature. The communication which contained one single nerve fascicle only innervate the first dorsal interosseous muscle (FDI).
Anomalous flexor digiti minimi brevis in Guyon's canal.	In an adult male cadaver, the flexor digiti minimi brevis, a muscle of the hypothenar eminence, was found to arise from the superficial transverse septum (between the superficially placed flexor carpi ulnaris, palmaris longus, and flexor carpi radialis muscles, and the deeply placed flexor digitorum superficialis muscle) in the distal fourth of the flexor aspect of the left forearm. The muscle exhibited two strata of muscle fibers at its origin. The superficial stratum was a thin layer of transversely running fibers confined to the forearm, which has not been previously reported. The deep stratum, a thick layer of longitudinally running fibers, formed the bulk of the muscle. It traversed Guyon's canal superficial to the ulnar nerve and vessels to reach the hypothenar eminence. Its course through Guyon's canal could be a cause for ulnar tunnel syndrome. The ulnar nerve trunk innervated not only the anomalous flexor digiti minimi brevis muscle, but also abductor digiti minimi and palmaris brevis. This may be due to the common phylogeny of these three muscles from the same muscle mass.
An anatomic study of the Martin-Gruber anastomosis: electrodiagnostic implications.	This study aimed to clarify the morphologic variations of the Martin-Gruber anastomosis (MGA) by tracing the anastomotic fascicles. We used 102 upper limbs, and MGA was found in 39.2%. Among 12 instances of MGA between the branches innervating the flexor digitorum profundus muscle, eight anastomotic branches solely innervated the muscle without crossover from median to ulnar nerve. The results of the present study showed three morphologic features of MGA that could not be detected by an electrodiagnostic method.
Riche-Cannieu anastomosis as an inherited trait.	To explore the basis for the Riche-Cannieu anastomosis (RCA) and specifically whether this anomaly is an hereditary characteristic.
Martin-Gruber anastomosis and unusual sensory innervation of the fingers: report of a case.	We report the electrophysiological study of a patient with carpal tunnel syndrome who, besides the features of median nerve entrapment at the wrist, showed an aberrant motor innervation of Martin-Gruber type and an unusual distribution of the sensory innervation of the fingers. Studies based on collision between sensory volleys showed that the fibers supplying the anomalous innervation did not follow the same path as the aberrant motor fibers. This finding is consistent with the hypothesis that Martin-Gruber anastomosis is made up of motor axons only, and supports the idea that other abnormalities of innervation may be found in patients with Martin-Gruber anastomosis.
Martin-Gruber anastomosis and transposition in cubital tunnel.	This describes the indivisible anastomosis of the main stem of median nerve with ulnar nerve through cubital tunnel followed by the anomaly of ulnar artery that appears as superficial ulnar artery. Both anomalies are found during the anatomical dissection of a grown-up male cadaver, on his right arm. Such case is very rare as, in the literature available to us, it has not been described.
Martin-Gruber anastomosis with anomalous superficial radial innervation to ulnar dorsum of hand: a pitfall when common variants coexist.	The Martin-Gruber anastomosis (MGA) is the most common anatomic variation in the upper extremity. Anomalous superficial radial innervation to the ulnar dorsum of the hand is the most common cause of an absent dorsal ulnar cutaneous (DUC) response. The coexistence of these variants introduces a relatively common yet underrecognized potential pitfall in nerve conduction studies (NCS). We performed confirmatory NCS in two cases referred for ulnar neuropathy in the forearm (case 1) and at the elbow (UNE, case 2). Initial NCS in both cases suggested ulnar nerve injury at the forearm and elbow, respectively, based on an apparent conduction block in ulnar motor fibers in the forearm (case 1) and elbow (case 2), and absent DUC responses. Additional NCS documented an MGA in the mid-forearm (case 1) and high proximal forearm (case 2) with anomalous superficial radial innervation to the ulnar dorsum of the hand (both cases). Failure to recognize the coexistence of these two common variants may lead to misdiagnosis of ulnar neuropathy and inappropriate treatment.
A coexisting anatomical variation of median and ulnar nerves in a cadaver palm.	During a routine dissection we observed an anatomical variation of the median  nerve and an atypical anastomosis in the palm region of a male cadaver. There  were four distinct recurrent motor branches of the left median nerve, and the  palmar cutaneous branch of the ulnar nerve communicated directly with the  third common palmar digital nerve. The presence of such an anatomical variant  in the hand should keep surgeons alert in the management of hand pathology  especially in carpal tunnel syndrome, which is a routine operation for many  medical centres.
Bilateral anomalous course of the ulnar nerve at the wrist causing ulnar and median nerve compression syndrome. Case report.	The case of a patient with a bilateral compression syndrome of the ulnar and median nerves at the wrist is described. Both ulnar nerves, which were surgically explored at different times, followed an anomalous course and passed into the canalis carpi side by side with the median nerve. This variation in the course of the ulnar nerve is extremely rare and causes a unique syndrome with characteristic electromyographic patterns.
Anomalous volar branch of the dorsal cutaneous ulnar nerve: a case report.	A 17-year-old boy, who had complained of pain for many years, had an anomalous branch from the dorsal ulnar cutaneous nerve which passed ulnar to the pisiform bone and was compressed by the flexor carpi ulnaris tendon. The symptoms were relieved completely by decompression of this nerve.
