A positioning device to allow rotation for cine-MRI of the distal radioulnar joint.	'Cine-mode' magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is useful in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with disorders of joint motion. We have designed a device for imaging of the distal radioulnar joint by cine-MRI. Five normal wrists and eight patients with rheumatoid arthritis were investigated prior to surgery for subluxation of the distal radioulnar joint. Normally, the radius moves in a constant arc around the ulna, whereas in rheumatoid wrists the centre of rotation varies continuously with increase in rotation. The device should prove helpful in imaging disorders of the distal radioulnar joint.
The Sauvé-Kapandji operation. Analysis and results of 69 cases]	The authors present the results of 69 cases operated between 1983 and 1989. The indications were dominated by two aetiologies: degenerative lesions of the inferior radio-ulnar joint in rheumatoid arthritis: 58% of cases, and traumatic sequelae, predominantly secondary to fractures of the distal radius: 34% of cases. The authors stress the effects of distant lesions: skeletal lesions of the two bones of the forearm or the superior radio-ulnar joint. A third group of rarer indications consisted of painful dislocations of the inferior radio-ulnar joint in Madelung's disease (indication only applied to adults). There were two types of complications: complications due to excessively long or intra-articular screws, which were treated by removal of the screws and, more severe, ossifications of the zone of diaphyseal resection (5 cases) which interfered with the functional result in terms of mobility. Three cases required extensive diaphyseal resection. The results are analysed for each aetiological group in terms of pain, mobility prehensile strength after more than one year of follow-up. Good results were obtained in 80% of cases of post-traumatic lesions (16 cases). The insufficient results were related to associated lesions of the elbow or the 2 bones of the forearm. A good result was obtained in 3 out of 4 cases of Madelung's disease and one case, operated elsewhere and revised by pseudoarthrodesis, obtained a moderate result. Lastly, in rheumatoid arthritis, the results in terms of pain, mobility and prehensile strength were good, apart from 2 failures due to progression of rheumatoid disease (cases unsuitable for this treatment). Radiographic analysis according to Youm and Mac Murtry's criteria showed minimal regression in the carpoulnar translation index (pre-op: 0.28; post-op: 0.22). Overall, the Sauvé-Kapandji operation provided good quality clinical results when the indications and technique were rigorously applied.
Radial head dislocation with acute plastic bowing of the ulna.	Five radial head dislocations with acute plastic bowing of the ulna in patients aged 6-12 years were reviewed. Closed reduction was successful in two, and open reduction was required in three patients in whom treatment was started more than 2 weeks after injury. In one child who presented 2 months after injury, realignment by osteotomy of the ulna as well as open reduction of the radial head was necessary. Follow-up evaluations at 6-24 months revealed good clinical outcomes in all patients. Awareness of this type of radial head dislocation is important to avoid delays in diagnosis and treatment.
Parathyroid hormone sensitizes long bones to the stimulation of bone resorption by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.	In response to hypocalcemia the serum PTH level increases rapidly followed by a PTH-induced rise in 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25-(OH)2D3] production. Therefore, bone is first exposed to increased PTH levels before increased 1,25-(OH)2D3 levels. In the present study the effect of pretreatment with PTH on 1,25-(OH)2D3-induced bone resorption was examined. Bone resorption was measured as release of prelabeled 45Ca during culture from 17-day-old fetal mice radii/ulnae and metatarsals. Radii/ulnae and metatarsals are characterized by differences in development. In radii/ulnae mature osteoclasts are present, whereas in metatarsals only different stages of preosteoclasts can be found. Preincubation for 24 h but not 4 h with PTH increases the stimulation of bone resorption by 1,25-(OH)2D3 in fetal radii/ulnae but not in metatarsals. Coincubation of PTH and 1,25-(OH)2D3 did not result in a significant change in bone resorption compared to 1,25-(OH)2D3 alone. The observed difference in the effect of pretreatment with PTH between radii/ulnae and metatarsals indicates that PTH does not stimulate the development of early osteoclast precursors but that a certain level of differentiation of the osteoclast precursor is required. Pretreatment with prostaglandin E2 resulted in an effect similar to that of PTH. Inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis by indomethacin prevented the potentiation of 1,25-(OH)2D3-induced bone resorption by pretreatment with PTH. Thus, the present study demonstrates that PTH sensitizes responses to 1,25-(OH)2D3. PTH must be present before 1,25-(OH)2D3 to observe a potentiation of 1,25-(OH)2D3-induced bone resorption.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Behavior of the joint surface of the distal radio-ulnar joint in malposition of the distal radius]	Pathological changes of wrist bones and ligaments after radial fracture loco typico induce permanent functional restriction and pain. In this paper the effects of malunion on the distal radioulnar joint are investigated and osteotomic therapy of Kienböck's disease gets a new evaluation. By simulating radial malunions on anatomic forearm specimen the effects of these malunions on the contact area during supination, neutral position and pronation are measured. Isolated posttraumatic radial shortening as well as epiphyseal inclination and torsion cause a reduction of radioulnar contact. During supination and pronation the loss of radioulnar contact increases. Most significant reduction of contact takes place at a lower graduation of radial malunion. Pronatory torsion of distal radius compensates for a radioulnar contact reduction from combining dorsal inclination with radial shortening. One conclusion of this paper is an exact restitution of anatomical relations between ulnar head and radial notch after fracture of the distal radius.
Evaluation of functional ability of rheumatoid arthritis based on HAQ score and BMD among South Indian patients.	Aim of this study is to analyze the functional ability of rheumatoid arthritis among South Indian male and female patients based on HAQ score and forearm ulna-BMD measurement by peripheral DXA, and to investigate the correlation between forearm ulna-BMD and HAQ score among RA patients. Sixty-four patients with RA and 64 age- and sex-matched healthy controls were included in this study. The health assessment questionnaire test was self administered by each RA patients. The bone mineral density (BMD) in forearm ulna region was measured using peripheral Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (osteometer model-DTX200 Meditech.Inc, Hawthorn, California, USA) both for RA patients and for healthy control group. RA patients (n = 64) and age- and sex-matched healthy controls (n = 64) were selected, of which 46 (72%) patients were women and 18 (28%) were men. The mean age was 47.75 ± 11.37 years, and a majority of the patients were in the age group of 30-75 years. The mean age of healthy controls was 46.42 ± 10.67 years. For male RA patients, U-BMD shows moderate significance with healthy controls (0.371 ± 0.05 (g cm(2)) [mean ± SD], 0.413 ± 0.05 (g cm(2)), P = 0.03). For female RA patients, U-BMD was highly significant with that of healthy controls (0.300 ± 0.132 (g cm(2)), 0.376 ± 0.05 (g cm(2)), P = 0.0006). Because as U-BMD decreases for RA patients, HAQ score increases, hence, Pearson correlation analysis revealed that U-BMD was negatively correlated with HAQ score (r = -0.732, P < 0.0001). Forearm U-BMD for RA patients is significantly lower than the healthy controls both for male and for female patients. There was a negative correlation found between HAQ score and P-DXA forearm U-BMD.
The relationship of pre- and postoperative median and ulnar nerve conduction measures to a self-administered questionnaire in carpal tunnel syndrome.	Following carpal tunnel release (CTR), only very modest correlations have been found between subjective symptoms and function indexes compared to neurophysiological measures. The objective of this study was to evaluate this relationship by comparing the self-administered Boston symptom severity score and function severity score questionnaire against nerve conduction studies (NCS) before and after CTR using two different electrophysiological techniques.
Revision of the ununited one-bone forearm.	Between 1975 and 1995, 7 patients were surgically treated for persistent forearm pain following previously unsuccessful attempts of constructing a radioulnar synostosis using interosseous bone grafting with either cross screw or pin fixation. These prior reconstructive procedures were salvage operations to address symptomatic radioulnar instability. The time interval between index operation and revision surgery was a mean of 12.6 months (range, 4-36 months). The postoperative follow-up period averaged 29.7 months (range, 11-61 months). To address these failed radioulnar arthrodeses, plate osteosynthesis and aggressive bone grafting were used in 5 of 7 patients (group 1) (4 with autologous graft and 1 with demineralized bone matrix). Union was achieved in all 5 patients after a single revision operation. Radiographic evidence of solid union was seen at approximately 4 months. In the remaining 2 patients (group 2), revision synostosis procedures were performed; these involved local bone grafting and repeat transverse screw fixation in 1 patient and iliac crest bone grafting alone in the other. One of these 2 patients progressed to union; the other had a persistent symptomatic fibrous union. The 5 patients in group 1 reported symptomatic relief, while the 2 patients in group 2 were dissatisfied. There were no postoperative complications in our series. Based on our findings, we advocate abundant bone grafting and plating for rigid internal fixation in failed radioulnar synostosis procedures.
