Early development of the vascular laboratory in Australia.	Vascular surgeons were involved in the early development of the vascular laboratory in Australia, extrapolating experience gained overseas, introducing the methodology and training programmes and later determining qualifications and standards. Common themes emerged in a review of individual surgeons' involvement, notably their early commitment, ingenuity in overcoming financial and political barriers and the close working relationship that developed between them and their vascular technologists. Vascular surgeons are now a minority player in vascular imaging but retain important leadership roles. If the next generation of vascular surgeons is to retain their involvement in the vascular laboratory, there are inherent capital costs they need to meet and administrative skills necessary to complement clinical expertise to deliver optimum vascular surgical care. Just as endovascular skills are now being introduced into the traditional armamentarium, experience in the vascular laboratory must be consolidated in vascular fellowship training -programs. This has implications for manpower, resources and training.
History of emergency and critical care ultrasound: the evolution of a new imaging paradigm.	The tradition of clinical ultrasound in the hands of physicians who provide critical care to the most acutely ill patients stretches back into the 1980s and is rich with experiences from surgical, emergency medicine, and other practices. Now, as critical care ultrasound explodes around the world, it is important to realize the path its development has taken and learn from trials and tribulations of early practitioners in the field. The development and battles for the right to use ultrasound at the patient's bedside for >20 yrs is described in relation to its emergency medicine and surgical origins. Approaches to education, scanning, documentation, and organization at the national and regional levels are described.
The use of ink jets in ultrasound registrations.	The continuous ink jet method developed by Professor Hellmuth Hertz, Lund Institute of Technology, Sweden, is today used in printers that print digitally stored high-quality images rapidly and at low cost. The development started in the late 1950s when there was a need for a direct registration method for ultrasound echocardiograms. The development steps are described from the early ultrasound registrations to the true halftone printing of digital images today. Images from ultrasonic color Doppler examinations have been printed by an ink jet printer at our laboratory. The color capabilities of the printer are further illustrated by the printing of pseudo-colored gray-scale images and an image where color is used to highlight differences between two gray-scale images. The results show that the printer based on continuous ink jets is an interesting alternative to the existing hard-copy devices for medical images.
From Roentgen to magnetic resonance imaging: the history of medical imaging.	Medical imaging has advanced in remarkable ways since the discovery of x-rays 120 years ago. Today's radiologists can image the human body in intricate detail using computed tomography, magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography, ultrasound, and various other modalities. Such technology allows for improved screening, diagnosis, and monitoring of disease, but it also comes with risks. Many imaging modalities expose patients to ionizing radiation, which potentially increases their risk of developing cancer in the future, and imaging may also be associated with possible allergic reactions or risks related to the use of intravenous contrast agents. In addition, the financial costs of imaging are taxing our health care system, and incidental findings can trigger anxiety and further testing. This issue of the NCMJ addresses the pros and cons of medical imaging and discusses in detail the following uses of medical imaging: screening for breast cancer with mammography, screening for osteoporosis and monitoring of bone mineral density with dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, screening for congenital hip dysplasia in infants with ultrasound, and evaluation of various heart conditions with cardiac imaging. Together, these articles show the challenges that must be met as we seek to harness the power of today's imaging technologies, as well as the potential benefits that can be achieved when these hurdles are overcome. 
