Vascular cell adhesion molecule-1-targeted detection of endothelial activation in human microvasculature.	The hallmark of endothelial activation, an early and critical step in many alloimmune and inflammatory responses, is the transcriptional induction and expression of endothelial adhesion molecules (eg, vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 [VCAM-1]). We assessed the feasibility of VCAM-1-targeted in vivo detection of endothelial activation using I-125-labeled-F(ab')2 fragments of E1/6, a monoclonal antibody against human but not murine VCAM-1. The Kd and Bmax, determined by saturation binding in tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-activated human endothelial cells (ECs), were 3.2 +/- 0.6 nmol/L and 5600 +/- 300 binding sites per EC, respectively. Biodistribution and in vivo binding characteristics of I-125-E1/6 F(ab')2 were assessed in a novel chimeric human/mouse model, in which human skin (as a source of human microvasculature) is grafted onto SCID/beige mice. I-125-E1/6 F(ab')2 localized to TNF-activated human skin grafts as detected by autoradiography and gamma well-counting. Relative uptakes (uptake in human skin graft/uptake in the surrounding mouse skin) were, respectively, 2.6 +/- 0.8 (n = 14) and 1.6 +/- 0.3 (n = 12) for E1/6 and MOPC-21, an isotype-matched control antibody (P < .01). The preferential uptake in human skin graft was not due to differences in tissue vascularity assessed by Tc-99m-labeled murine red blood cells. In conclusion, the chimeric human/mouse model is a novel experimental tool for in vivo evaluation of human endothelial cell-specific radiopharmaceuticals. Although I-125-E1/6 F(ab')2 localized to human skin grafts, the limited number of VCAM-1 molecules/endothelial cell adversely affects its suitability as a target for in vivo imaging of endothelial activation.
Activation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells leads to relocation and release of high-mobility group box chromosomal protein 1.	The nuclear protein high-mobility group box chromosomal protein 1 (HMGB1) was recently described to act as a pro-inflammatory cytokine and as a late mediator of severe sepsis and septic shock. The protein is released from monocytes in response to endotoxin and activates monocytes and endothelial cells through nuclear factor kappa B. We have previously demonstrated that the B-box of HMGB1 mediates a pro-inflammatory effect on endothelial cells including the upregulation of cell-adhesion molecules and release of interleukin (IL)-8 and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor. Here, we report that HMGB1 is released from human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) in response to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. A nuclear relocation of HMGB1 to the cytoplasm was seen at 4 h. Subsequently, high amounts of HMGB1 could be seen in the supernatants from stimulated cells after 16 h. It was also observed that the pro-inflammatory activity of HMGB1 is sensitive to dexamethasone. Interestingly, the HMGB1-induced TNF-alpha release from monocytes could be inhibited by either the A-box of the protein or the p38 inhibitor CNI-1493, but neither had any inhibitory effects on the HMGB1-dependent upregulation of cell-adhesion molecules on HUVEC. Altogether, these results suggest that HUVEC may be an important source of HMGB1 secretion in response to systemic infection and that endothelial cells and monocytes may use different signalling pathways.
Magnesium sulfate suppresses inflammatory responses by human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HuVECs) through the NFkappaB pathway.	Dysfunctional endothelial cell activation and cytokines are implicated in preterm labor, a condition commonly treated with the tocolytic agent, magnesium sulfate (MgSO(4)). Based on recent findings showing the inflammatory effects of magnesium deficiency, we examined the effect of MgSO(4) on human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HuVEC) inflammatory responses in vitro. HuVECs isolated from term umbilical cords were incubated with MgSO(4) prior to stimulation with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and then assessed for endothelial cell activation. Endothelial cell supernatants were assayed for inflammatory mediator production (interleukin-8; IL-8), and endothelial cell-associated intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM-1) expression was determined. In the absence of LPS stimulation, MgSO(4) had no effect on HuVEC responses. Treatment of HuVECs with MgSO(4) prior to LPS stimulation inhibited inflammatory mediator production (p<0.05) and cell adhesion molecule expression (p<0.05) in a dose-dependent manner. Mechanistic studies showed that MgSO(4) reduced NFkappaB nuclear translocation and protected cytoplasmic IkappaBalpha from degradation in LPS-treated HuVECs. In conclusion, MgSO(4) inhibits endothelial cell activation, as measured by levels of IL-8 and ICAM-1 expression, via NFkappaB. Our results support the hypothesis that MgSO(4) treatment may function as an anti-inflammatory agent during preterm labor.
Electron-microscopic and immunocytochemical analyses of Weibel-Palade bodies in the human umbilical vein during pregnancy.	The present study was done to elucidate the biological significance of the Weibel-Palade body of human umbilical vein endothelial cells. Quantitative determinations of these endothelial-specific granules throughout pregnancy revealed that their numbers and size per cell profile were maintained at low levels from 12 to 19 weeks of gestation; then both rapidly increased from 33 weeks to full term. This increase coincided with the development of the rough endoplasmic reticulum and an increase in the number of endothelial cell pinocytotic vesicles. Light-microscopic peroxidase anti-peroxidase and electron-microscopic protein A-gold techniques provided evidence that factor VIII-related antigen was localized in the Weibel-Palade bodies. Furthermore, in vitro treatment of incubated umbilical vein tissue with compound 48/80, a histamine releaser, induced degranulation of Weibel-Palade bodies from the endothelium. The present study indicates that Weibel-Palade bodies are storage sites of both histamine and factor VIII-related antigen and have an important role in the obliteration of this vessel.
Localization of factor-VIII-related antigen in human vascular subendothelium.	Factor-VIII-related antigen has previously been shown to be synthesized by vascular endothelial cells. Using both an immunofluorescent staining technique and electron microscopy, we have demonstrated the presence of factor-VIII-related antigen in human vascular subendothelium. This finding may have implications in the mechanism of platelet adhesion to deendothelialized blood vessel surfaces.
Comparison of cord blood immunoglobulin E concentrations and maternal allergy for the prediction of atopic diseases in infancy.	Total serum IgE levels were determined in 136 newborns and their mothers and in 54 of their fathers, using the paper radioimmunosorbent test (PRIST) technique. IgE specific antibodies for house dust (Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus), orchard grass, timothy grass, and cow's milk were measured with the radioallergosorbent test (RAST). One hundred thirty-three RAST assays were negative in newborns, and in three cases RAST for cow's milk was positive. Cord blood IgE ranged from 0 to 5.5 IU/ml (mean 0.32 +/- 0.54 IU/ml); levels were significantly (p less than 0.05) higher when maternal IgE was over 100 IU/ml and when mothers had received progesterone therapy during the pregnancy. Salbutamol administration or tobacco smoking during pregnancy did not influence newborn IgE. A clinical follow-up study was conducted in 83 infants for 9 mo. Nine infants developed definite atopic disease, and possible allergic diseases were noted in eight other infants. The IgE level at birth appeared to be more predictive for the development of allergy in infancy than the family history.
A new antigen system expressed in human endothelial cells.	Kidney transplant recipients were previously found to have antibodies that reacted with cells isolated from the endothelium of umbilical cord veins and which were not cytotoxic for lymphocytes from the same donors. Results of the present experiments indicate that endothelial (E) antigens are different from previously known HLA antigens and also from Ia-like antigens of bone marrow-derived (B) lymphocytes. Attempts to absorb E antibodies with lymphocytes from E-positive donors failed in most cases. Antigen redistribution experiments showed that E antigens were located in separate molecules from the products of HLA-A, B, and C. Thus, E cells treated with E antibody became resistant to lysis by the antibody used, but remained susceptible to the effects of typing sera for alleles of HLA-A, B, and C. Antibodies to E cells were also cytotoxic for blood monocytes. Moreover, monocytes were able to absorb E-antibody reactions, indicating that similar antigens were expressed in both cells. E antibodies did not react with B lymphocytes isolated from peripheral blood. In that regard E antibodies were different from antibodies to human Ia-like antigens which reacted with E cells, monocytes, and isolated B lymphocytes. Thus it appears that E antigens constitute a system of human alloantigens which has not been previously identified. The possibility that these antigens play a role in kidney allograft rejection should now be investigated since matching can be performed using monocytes isolated from the blood of recipients and donors.
