Cell adhesion properties on photochemically functionalized diamond.	The biocompatibility of diamond was investigated with a view toward correlating surface chemistry and topography with cellular adhesion and growth. The adhesion properties of normal human dermal fibroblast (NHDF) cells on microcrystalline and ultrananocrystalline diamond (UNCD) surfaces were measured using atomic force microscopy. Cell adhesion forces increased by several times on the hydrogenated diamond surfaces after UV irradiation of the surfaces in air or after functionalization with undecylenic acid. A direct correlation between initial cell adhesion forces and the subsequent cell growth was observed. Cell adhesion forces were observed to be strongest on UV-treated UNCD, and cell growth experiments showed that UNCD was intrinsically more biocompatible than microcrystalline diamond surfaces. The surface carboxylic acid groups on the functionalized diamond surface provide tethering sites for laminin to support the growth of neuron cells. Finally, using capillary injection, a surface gradient of polyethylene glycol could be assembled on top of the diamond surface for the construction of a cell gradient.
Optimizing biosensing properties on undecylenic Acid-functionalized diamond.	The optimization of biosensing efficiency on a diamond platform depends on the successful coupling of biomolecules on the surface, and also on effective signal transduction in the biorecognition events. In terms of biofunctionalization of diamond surfaces, surface electrochemical studies of diamond modified with undecylenic acid (UA), with and without headgroup protection, were performed. The direct photochemical coupling method employing UA was found to impart a higher density of carboxylic acid groups on the diamond surface compared to that using trifluoroethyl undecenoate (TFEU) as the protecting group during the coupling process. Non-faradic impedimetric DNA sensing revealed that lightly doped diamond gives better signal transduction sensitivity compared to highly doped diamond.
Development of separation systems for polynuclear aromatic hydrocarbon environmental contaminants using micellar electrokinetic chromatography with molecular micelles and free zone electrophoresis.	Of four systems available from the literature, based on cyclodextrins, dioctylsulfosuccinate, bile salts, and molecular micelles consisting of oligomers of undecylenic acid, the most successful separation system in our hands is based on the molecular micelles, oligomers of sodium undecylenic acid (OSUA). We have employed organic additives of acetonitrile, acetone, and tetrahydrofuran in achieving separations of polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PNAs) using molecular micelles. Generally, successful separations are achieved with 20-40% composition as the organic additive in an 8 mM borate buffer. We separated 16 PNAs with 20% tetrahydrofuran in a system of 8 mM borate and 0.125 g/10 mL (ca. 6.25 mM) of OSUA. Typical extracts of environmental samples contain additional analytes besides the typical 16 target compounds. Among these are the nitrogen-containing aromatics that can act as cations under conditions of low pH and additional compounds that can act as anions under basic conditions in free-zone electrophoresis. These additional classes of analytes are separated by capillary zone electrophoresis/laser-induced fluorescence detection using a frequency-doubled laser operated at 257 nm.
