Some observations on the recent recession's effects on the Detroit area health care system.	The author points out that a study of the impact of unemployment in the Detroit area produced several unexpected findings and that today it is not clear what effect the recession had on securing health care by unemployed persons or on utilization of emergency rooms or outpatient clinics as alternatives to customary medical medical services.
Priorities for maternal and child health services: the consumer's perspective.	A convenience sample of 206 inner city department of public health patients were asked to rank the importance of health care services relative to other problems they face. Respondents spontaneously ranked money, unemployment, and housing as their most pressing concerns. When presented with a list of potential problems, housing, crime, and rent were most frequently cited. Health of children and own health were priorities for 15 and 21 respondents respectively. Pregnancy prevention and having a good pregnancy were important for seven individuals. The priorities attached by these medically and socially high risk people for maternal and child health services are placed in the context of published data on expert opinion on need for maternal and child health services and the availability of these services. The results of this survey suggest that public health administrators define realistic, specific goals for preventive maternal and child health services. Aggressive consumer education programs aimed at providing information on the importance of these services to maintaining well-being are also in order.
The social security system of the Federal Republic of Germany.	This article summarizes the major provisions of the West German social security system, briefly outlining coverage, funding sources, and unique features of insurance programs concerned with old age, invalidity and death, sickness and maternity, work injury, and unemployment. The universal program of family allowance and the means-tested program of social aid are also reviewed.
The effects of internal migration on regional wage and unemployment disparities in Canada.	"This paper examines the role of the migration mechanism in the context of a general  interregional factor flow adjustment model.  Using an estimation technique, which pools cross-section and time series data, the direct effects of migration flows and regional investment on the growth of regional wages and unemployment [in Canada] are examined.  The results suggest that migration has a small, but significant impact on regional wages and unemployment rates."
A theoretical and empirical evaluation and extension of the Todaro migration model.	"This paper postulates that it is theoretically and empirically preferable to base internal labor migration on the relative difference in rural-urban real income streams and rates of unemployment, taken as separate and independent variables, rather than on the difference in the expected real income streams as postulated by the very influential and often quoted Todaro model.  The paper goes on to specify several important ways of extending the resulting migration model and improving its empirical performance."  The analysis is based on Italian data.
U.S. women at work.	Women made up 43% of the U.S. labor force in 1980, up from 29% in 1950, and 52% of all women 16 and over were working or looking for work compared to 34% in 1950.  The surge in women's employment is linked to more delayed marriage, divorce, and separation, women's increased education, lower fertility, rapid growth in clerical and service jobs, inflation, and changing attitudes toward "woman's place."  Employment has risen fastest among married women, especially married mothers of children under 6, 45% of whom are now in the labor force.  Some 44% of employed women now work fulltime the year round, but still average only $6 for every $10 earned by men working that amount.  This is partly because most women remain segregated in low paying "women's jobs" with few chances for advancement.  Among fulltime workers, women college graduates earn less than male high school dropouts.  Working wives were still spending 6 times more time on housework than married men in 1975 and working mothers of preschool children are also hampered by a severe lack of daycare facilities.  Children of working women, however, appear to develop normally.  Equal employment opportunity and affirmative action measures have improved the climate for working women but not as much as for minorities.  The federal income tax and social security systems still discriminate against 2 income families.  Woman's position in the U.S. labor force should eventually improve with the inroads women are making in some male-dominated occupations and gains in job experience and seniority among younger women who now tend to stay in the labor force through the years of childbearing and early childrearing, unlike women in the 1950s and 1960s.
A framework for modeling interregional population distribution and economic growth.	"An integrated model is proposed to capture economic and demographic interactions in a system of regions.  This model links the interregional economic model of Isard (1960) and the interregional demographic model of Rogers (1975) via functions describing consumption and migration patterns.  Migration rates are determined jointly with labor force participation rates and unemployment rates."
The number of Americans without health insurance rose in 2001 and continued to rise in 2002.	Data from the Census Bureau and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention indicate that the number of uninsured Americans rose in 2001and in the first quarter of 2002. The main reason insurance coverage fell was a drop-off in employer-sponsored insurance for workers and their dependents. This reduction was triggered by rising unemployment levels and rising health insurance premiums, which made it more difficult for employers to offer insurance or for workers to afford it. The downturn in private coverage was partially offset by increased enrollment in Medicaid and the State Children's Health Insurance Program (SCHIP). About two million mor e children and one million more adults would have been uninsured had it not been for the growth in these programs. Funding for the public programs is, however, threatened by budget shortfalls affecting most states, which administer these programs. Many states have cut their Medicaid programs and are planning further cutbacks. Increasing federal assistance to states and their Medicaid programs could help protect insurance coverage for low-income people during the current economic slowdown. Future SCHIP enrollment could drop sharply because of a shortage of federal funds, and Congress could take steps to bolster SCHIP funding.
Social integration of juvenile amputees: comparison with a general population.	The objective was to assess the social integration of juvenile amputees according to marital status, schooling and occupation, and to compare it with the population of Asturias, Spain. A retrospective study was carried out of the juvenile amputees registered from 1976 to 1999 at the Prosthetics Unit of the Asturias Central Hospital (n=281 amputees). The proportion of single women amongst the amputees was greater than in the population of Asturias (p<0.05). Amongst the male amputees, relative to the general population, there was a larger proportion of the group with primary studies (p<0.001) and a smaller proportion with secondary studies (p<0.001). At the higher level (university) there were no differences, either in men or in women. As regards occupation, amongst the amputees a larger number was found who were retired or unemployed (p<0.05 and p<0.001). In conclusion, juvenile amputees do not show differences compared to the general population with regard to their attendance at a higher or university level of education. However, if their social integration is considered through occupation, male amputees show a greater proportion of unemployment, which is a clear reflection of their handicap.
The functional and professional future of lower limb amputees with prosthesis]	The objective of our study is to evaluate the functional and professional becoming of lower limb amputated population with prosthesis.
The changes of characteristics of burn injuries and treatment data of burned adults in Kaunas University of Medicine Hospital in 1981-2001]	About 8000 people get burned in Lithuania every year; over 2000 of them have to be hospitalized. About 500 adults and children, who have heavy burn accidents, are treated in the specialized burn centers in Kaunas and Vilnius. With the flow of time, causes of burn accidents change; new treatment methods appear and are applied, the duration of treatment in the hospital as well as other burn accident data change. Consequently we can conclude that in Lithuania as well as all over the world burns are considered to be a serious medical, psychological, economic and social problem. A retrospective 723 in-patient case study was carried out in order to analyze accident and treatment data. The article deals with accident and in-patient treatment data analysis of the adults hospitalized in 1981, 1985, 1991, 1995 and 2001 at the Department of Plastic Surgery and Burns of Kaunas University of Medicine. In 1981, 1985, 1991, 1995 and 2001, respectively 156, 116, 174, 173 and 106 burn accident adult patients were treated. In all years number of burned male patients was twice higher than of female patients. It was noticed that in most cases people of the employable age got burned; the average age of patients 41.3 years. The main source of burns was flame (47.2%); town inhabitants got burned two times more frequently than villagers. It was found that the number of burns with hot liquids increased. The number of unemployed patients increased as well. The absolute majority of patients were treated due to deep burns (87.55%), the total average of burned area decreased from 12.66% in 1981 to 10.99% in 2001. The number of patients undergoing an operation has grown. Active surgery tactics and early operations gave the possibility to decrease almost twice the duration of in-patient treatment in 2001 in comparison to 1981. The time till the first operation decreased from 19.1 days in 1981 to 7 days in 2001.
Risk-risk balancing for hazardous waste workers: alternative work, traffic fatalities, and unemployment.	Previous studies have shown that the fatality rate among hazardous waste remediation workers is likely to exceed the fatality rate averted among the public by remediation. The implication is that much hazardous waste remediation is inappropriate on a strictly risk-based basis. Such analyses ignore the fact that the same hazardous waste workers would be engaged in other work with similar or perhaps greater safety risks, and that in any case the single greatest cause of occupational fatalities is traffic accidents, hence distance traveled may be a more important predictor than type of work performed.
Delayed presentation and late testing for HIV: demographic and behavioral risk factors in a multicenter study in Italy.	Ensuring timely access to care for persons with HIV is an important public health goal. To identify factors associated with delayed presentation to medical care after testing HIV-positive or with late HIV testing, we studied 968 patients at their first HIV care visit, enrolled in a multicenter study in Italy from 1997-2000. Patients completed a questionnaire on HIV-testing history, sexual behavior, and drug use behavior. Delayed presenters were patients with >6 months between their first HIV-positive test and presentation for HIV care; late testers were patients with CD4 count < 200 /mm or clinically defined AIDS at their first HIV-positive test. Among the study patients, 255 (26.3%) were delayed presenters, and 280 (28.9%) were late testers. In multinomial logistic regression analysis, injection drug use significantly increased (odds ratio [OR]= 5.04) the probability of delayed presentation but reduced (OR = 0.55) the chance of late testing. A previous HIV-negative test was associated with a reduced risk of both delayed presentation (OR = 0.39) and late testing (OR = 0.36). Unemployment was positively associated with delayed presentation and increasing age with late testing, whereas HIV counseling at the time of first positive HIV test strongly (OR = 0.42) reduced the odds of delayed presentation. Interventions aimed at promoting timely access to care of HIV-infected persons should consider differentiated programs for delayed presentation and late testing.
Unemployment and early cause-specific mortality: a study based on the Swedish twin registry.	We investigated the association between unemployment and early cause-specific mortality to determine whether the relationship was modified by other risk indicators.
Epilepsy and employment, marital, education and social status.	Employment, marital, educational and social status in epileptic patients attending a seizure clinic were assessed. A total of 343 patients were evaluated. The social group, employment and marital status did not compare favourably with the overall population. Forty per cent of patients belonged to social group five and six compared with 14% of the population. Thirty three per cent of male patients aged 20 years or more were married, compared with 65% in the community. The corresponding statistics for females were 46% and 73% respectively. The male unemployment rate of 34% compared poorly with the unemployment rate of 13% for the period during which the study data was collected. Patients with lower educational attainments were significantly more likely to have poor seizure control (P less than 0.001), or required polypharmacy. A similar situation was found between seizure control and social status, with poor seizure control occurring in patients in social group six.
Unemployment and cardiovascular risk indicators. Data from the MONICA survey in northern Sweden.	We studied the effect of unemployment, or the threat of unemployment, on indicators of cardiovascular risk in a randomly selected cross-sectional sample of the population aged 25-64 years in northern Sweden with interviews and a health examination. In men, unemployment for more than one year correlated significantly with systolic blood pressure, serum cholesterol level, HDL-quotients, cigarette smoking and physical inactivity. In women, unemployment correlated significantly with body mass index, HDL-quotient, cigarette smoking and physical inactivity. Our results support the hypothesis that correlations between unemployment and cardiovascular disease found in other studies could be partly explained by elevated risk indicators due to unemployment.
Case management in vocational rehabilitation: a case study with promising results.	The aim of the current study was to investigate whether Case Management and the strengths model could be a successful method in vocational rehabilitation of unemployed people on long term sick leave in Sweden. An additional aim was to further highlight the actual rehabilitation process.
Smoking in 6 diverse Chicago communities--a population study.	We analyzed smoking survey data across communities in Chicago, Ill, to explore community-level variations in smoking behavior.
Alcohol consumption among unemployed youths: results from a prospective study.	A prospective study, including all 1083 pupils in the final year of compulsory schooling in a municipality in northern Sweden, was performed. Ninety-seven point nine per cent of the pupils were followed up after five years. They completed a comprehensive self-administered questionnaire including questions on alcohol consumption. Among men a positive correlation between long-standing unemployment (greater than 20 weeks) and alcohol consumption at the beginning and at the end of the study, as well as the change in consumption during the follow-up period was seen. This correlation was still present when earlier alcohol consumption and socioeconomic variables were controlled for. In women there was a positive correlation between unemployment and the level of alcohol consumption, but a negative correlation between unemployment and change in consumption. When controlling for motherhood and alcohol intake at the start of the study the correlation turned positive. Unemployment among women did not seem to affect recruitment to the high consumption group. Our results support the suggestion that unemployment may be a risk indicator for increasing alcohol consumption among young people, particularly in young men.
Multiple risk factors predict suicide in alcoholism.	From a study of the lives of 50 alcoholics who committed suicide, seven nonacute clinical/historical features were identified post hoc that appear to be intimately linked to suicide. They included continued drinking, major depressive episode, suicidal communication, poor social support, serious medical illness, unemployment, and living alone. This study examined whether these features are common to alcoholics generally and/or to nonalcoholics who commit suicide or if they may be specifically predictive of suicide in alcoholics. The frequencies of these factors were compared with those in an earlier sample of 32 alcoholics who committed suicide, then with data from two St Louis studies of living alcoholics and a cohort of individuals with major depressive disorder who committed suicide. The frequency of the identified items was replicated among the 32 alcoholics in a larger community sample of individuals who committed suicide. The white men from those two samples of alcoholics who committed suicide were then combined for the advantage of sample size. Six of the seven factors could be compared with a population survey sample of 106 living alcoholics and five with a clinically identified sample of 142 living alcoholics. All compared factors were significantly more frequent among those who committed suicide than among controls. Any four of the six factors identified 46 (69%) of the 67 individuals who committed suicide with few false-positive results among the controls. Regarding all seven of the identified factors, 54 (81%) of the 67 men and 64 (83%) of the entire sample of 82 individuals who committed suicide had four or more risk factors. Alcoholic women and blacks showed the same pattern as white men.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A nationwide population-based study identifying health disparities between American Indians/Alaska Natives and the general populations living in select urban counties.	Despite their increasing numbers, little is known about the health of American Indians/Alaska Natives living in urban areas. We examined the health status of American Indian/Alaska Native populations served by 34 federally funded urban Indian health organizations.
Adolescent pregnancy in West Turkey. Cross sectional survey of married adolescents.	The purpose of this research was to determine both the fertility characteristics of married adolescent women in Denizli province center and the adolescent pregnancy rate and also some factors that could occur with adolescent pregnancy.
Unemployment, contraceptive behaviour and reproductive outcomes among young Australian women.	To examine whether unemployment and partnership affects pregnancy, live births and terminations among young Australian women. Unemployment has conventionally been used in epidemiological studies to examine the health effects of loss of opportunity, material resources and satisfaction associated with work. During welfare reform in the 1990s it was argued that unemployment and associated welfare receipt could influence reproductive choice.
Places, people and mental health: a multilevel analysis of economic inactivity.	This paper investigates multilevel associations between the common mental disorders of anxiety, depression and economic inactivity measured at the level of the individual and the UK 2001 census ward. The data set comes from the Caerphilly Health & Social Needs study, in which a representative survey of adults aged 18-74 years was carried out to collect a wide range of information which included mental health status (using the Mental Health Inventory (MHI-5) scale of the Short Form-36 health status questionnaire), and socio-economic status (including employment status, social class, household income, housing tenure and property value). Ward level economic inactivity was measured using non-means tested benefits data from the Department of Work and Pensions (DWP) on long-term Incapacity Benefit and Severe Disablement Allowance. Estimates from multilevel linear regression models of 10,653 individuals nested within 36 census wards showed that individual mental health status was significantly associated with ward-level economic inactivity, after adjusting for individual-level variables, with a moderate effect size of -0.668 (standard error=0.258). There was a significant cross-level interaction between ward-level and individual economic inactivity from permanent sickness or disability, such that the effect of permanent sickness or disability on mental health was significantly greater for people living in wards with high levels of economic inactivity. This supports the hypothesis that living in a deprived neighbourhood has the most negative health effects on poorer individuals and is further evidence for a substantive effect of the place where you live on mental health.
The changing political economy of sex in South Africa: the significance of unemployment and inequalities to the scale of the AIDS pandemic.	Between 1990 and 2005, HIV prevalence rates in South Africa jumped from less than 1% to around 29%. Important scholarship has demonstrated how racialized structures entrenched by colonialism and apartheid set the scene for the rapid unfolding of the AIDS pandemic, like other causes of ill-health before it. Of particular relevance is the legacy of circular male-migration, an institution that for much of the 20th century helped to propel the transmission of sexually transmitted infections among black South Africans denied permanent urban residence. But while the deep-rooted antecedents of AIDS have been noted, less attention has been given to more recent changes in the political economy of sex, including those resulting from the post-apartheid government's adoption of broadly neo-liberal policies. As an unintentional consequence, male migration and apartheid can be seen as almost inevitably resulting in AIDS, a view that can disconnect the pandemic from contemporary social and economic debates. Combining ethnographic, historical, and demographic approaches, and focusing on sexuality in the late apartheid and early post-apartheid periods, this article outlines three interlinked dynamics critical to understanding the scale of the AIDS pandemic: (1) rising unemployment and social inequalities that leave some groups, especially poor women, extremely vulnerable; (2) greatly reduced marital rates and the subsequent increase of one person households; and (3) rising levels of women's migration, especially through circular movements between rural areas and informal settlements/urban areas. As a window into these changes, the article gives primary attention to the country's burgeoning informal settlements--spaces in which HIV rates are reported to be twice the national average--and to connections between poverty and money/sex exchanges.
Factors distinguishing employed from unemployed people in the Positive Health Study.	To identify predictors of unemployment among Australian people living with HIV/AIDS.
Employment status and frequent mental distress among adults with disabilities.	It has been postulated that poor mental health can lead to disability and disability can lead to unemployment. However, the association between poor mental health and employment status among adults with disabilities has not been well characterized in population-based studies.
Reducing the burden of arterial hypertension: what can be expected from an improved access to health care? Results from a study in 2420 unemployed subjects in the Caribbean.	High prevalence and poor control of hypertension have been observed in populations with low-socioeconomic status. Comparing an unemployed population with another employed population sharing the same culture, and another employed population living in another environment might enlighten the effects of factors accessible to primary prevention on the one hand and access to health care on the other hand. The objectives are, first, to describe blood pressure (BP) prevalence and control in an unemployed Caribbean population benefiting from State financial support and good access to health care and second, compare the results in this population with those observed, with the same methodology in two employed populations, one in the Caribbean and one in metropolitan France. A cross-sectional study of 2420 consecutive unemployed subjects referred for check-up in the two health centres of Guadeloupe, a French Caribbean island. Hypertension prevalence was 25.2% in men and 22.1% in women. BP was controlled in 17.3% of men and 37.2% of women receiving antihypertensive medication. Among women, 58% were overweight and 29% obese. Prevalence of hypertension was higher among the unemployed and employed Caribbean population, than among an employed metropolitan French population. A high prevalence of obesity was observed in the two Caribbean populations suggesting the interest of primary prevention in the Caribbean. Burden of hypertension in a population relates to the development of hypertension (primary prevention) and control of hypertension (secondary prevention). Identifying hypertensive patients and controlling blood pressure are both important to reduce the disease burden.
The impact of socioeconomic and sociodemographic factors on the criminal behavior of patients with a psychotic disorder]	The impact of socioeconomic and demographic factors on the criminal behavior of patients with a psychotic disorder was evaluated.
Depression and occupational disability in five diagnostic groups: a review of recent research.	To compare the methodologies and results of research across five diagnostic groups in which there was expected to be a high prevalence of depression and occupational disability.
Work disability among two cohorts of women with recent-onset rheumatoid arthritis: a survival analysis.	To analyze factors associated with leaving employment among women with newly diagnosed rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
Is the United States a good model for reducing social exclusion in Europe?	Advocates of U.S.-style labor market flexibility have long argued that Europe could generate jobs and lower unemployment if the continent's economies followed the example of the United States. More recently, proponents of the U.S. model have suggested that labor market deregulation also holds out the possibility of reducing the problem of "social exclusion" in Europe, primarily because unemployment is one of the worst forms of social exclusion and contributes to other forms of social marginalization. The authors review a broad range of social and economic indicators and conclude that the United States fares poorly compared with much of Europe on social measures. Meanwhile, U.S.-style flexibility has had only mixed success in improving employment outcomes, and the U.S. economy consistently provides lower levels of economic mobility than economies in Europe.
Civic community and violent behavior in Italy.	The aim of this study was to examine to what extent community characteristics counterbalance propensities towards homicide and robbery. Data were obtained for each of the 95 Italian provinces on homicide rate and robbery rate from 1992 to 1995. Multiple regressions were used to predict these homicide and robbery rates from a measure of civic engagement (Civicness) assessed during the same period, and from other socioeconomic variables: unemployment, family break up, and geographical characteristics. The predictors explained 77% of the variance among the Italian provinces for robbery, and 61% of the variance for homicide. The predictive patterns were somewhat different for homicide and robbery, but in each case civicness interacted with territorial variables. In the case of homicide, civicness had a preventive impact only in the southern provinces. For robbery, the protective impact was limited to provinces which were urbanized and had large metropolitan areas.
Six years after an economic crisis: child's anxiety and quality of peer relationships.	The purpose of this 6-year follow-up study was to determine whether there is a long-term relationship between economic stress and childrens' anxiety and peer-related behaviors. Data were collected from 39 of the 52 families in the original study. Analysis resulted in several interesting findings. Economic stress in 1983 was a moderate predictor of state anxiety, trait anxiety, and peer rejection in girls in 1989. Descriptive evidence was provided to indicate that detrimental effects of economic stressors on the family as a unit continue beyond the initial stress event. Implications for community health nurses (CHNs) are addressed.
Oral prostheses and oral health-related quality of life: a survey study of an adult Swedish population.	The purpose of the study was to investigate whether oral health-related quality of life (OHRQOL) in an adult Swedish population could be explained by social attributes; individual attributes; dental status, with a special focus on the role of prosthodontics; and dental care attitudes.
Quality of life of people living with HIV and AIDS in Estonia.	The assessment of quality of life is central to understanding how people's lives are affected by HIV infection. Estonia--the smallest of three Baltic countries--has experienced massive outbreak of HIV infection. Yet, little is known about the quality of life of HIV infected people in Estonia. The purposes of the present study were to adapt the World Health Organization's Quality of life HIV instrument (WHOQoL-HIV) into Estonian setting and to assess the quality of life in a sample of HIV-infected persons in Estonia.
Psychometric properties of the Worker Role Self-assessment instrument used to evaluate unemployed people in Sweden.	The aim was to determine the psychometric properties of the new Worker Role Self-assessment (WRS) instrument. The content validity, utility, test-retest reliability, sensitivity to change, and predictive validity of the WRS were investigated in two subject samples, which were selected at work and pain rehabilitation clinics, respectively. One of these groups consisted of 23 clients and four occupational therapists, and the other comprised 83 clients. All clients in both samples were unemployed. The results showed that both the clients and the occupational therapists perceived the content validity and the utility of the WRS as good. The test-retest reliability showed mostly good to moderate agreement, and the internal consistency was satisfactory. One of the items showed predictive validity for work capacity, and the same item was sensitive to change. However, a ceiling effect reduced the utility and the sensitivity to change. Our findings indicate that the WRS is promising as a tool that clinicians can use to evaluate the capacity for return to work and for planning interventions, although some revisions are needed to counteract the ceiling effect.
Father's unemployment and height of primary school children in Britain.	In a nutritional surveillance system of 5-11-year-old children the association between father's employment status and his child's height, weight-for-height and their rates of change over 2 years were assessed. The study was carried out in three samples: quasi-representative English sample 1984-86; quasi-representative Scottish samples 1983/84-1985/86; and a sample of English inner city areas 1983-85. For the cross-sectional analysis the sample sizes were 6527 for the English representative sample, 4285 for the Scottish representative sample and 6709 for the English inner city areas sample. In an analysis of height gain in 2 years the samples comprised 3814, 2676 and 3682 children respectively. In the analysis the following data were used: father's employment status and social class; number of children in the family; parents' reported height and child's reported birth weight; and child's height and weight measurements and a classification of ethnic origin obtained during fieldwork. Children with an unemployed father were shorter, especially if the father was unemployed for more than a year, than children with a currently employed father. After adjustment for parents' height, child's birth weight, father's social class and family size the difference persisted but reduced, to approximately 1.2 cm. Height gain in a 2-year period was not associated with father's employment status. If father's unemployment is causally linked to child's height a child is most vulnerable at pre-school age.
Negotiating a severance agreement.	A severance agreement is a valuable and negotiable benefit for the nurse executive in transition. Knowing which clauses to request and which to avoid helps the nurse executive provide for a secure job transition.
Flashback as screen memory.	The authors report a series of flashbacks of a combat patient's experience 18 years earlier. The flashback episodes occurred immediately after the patient's humiliating job loss. The man had no symptoms of delayed stress and no history of drug or alcohol abuse. The wartime memory served an obvious screening function by diminishing the impact of the patient's narcissistic injury just preceding the onset of the flashback sequence. The flashbacks also screened childhood and adolescent conflicts activated by the job loss.
Assessment of motor and process skills: assessing client work performance in Belgium.	The aim of this study is to establish whether the Assessment of Motor and Process Skills (AMPS) is an appropriate tool to evaluate the quality of work performance by comparing clients' results on the AMPS with the quality of the skills that they demonstrate on the shop floor. A convenience sample of chronically unemployed (vocationally disabled) participants (N=139) with no formal training who were seeking unskilled work through Jobcentrum West-Vlaanderen (West Flanders Job Centre, Belgium) was used. Results demonstrated that in 75.2% of cases the prediction of employment outcome was correct; it is suggested that an AMPS motor score < 2.5 and a process score < 1.2 is insufficient for regular employment, while a motor score > 3.1 and process score > 1.5 indicates that regular employment is a realistic goal. The quality of the motor skills measured by the AMPS and measured on the shop floor are comparable, but little similarity was found in the measurement of process skills.
Adolescent medicine in Guglera: a novel approach for unemployed, severely obese adolescents]	The Center "la Guglera", located in the canton of Fribourg (Switzerland) provides a novel approach to the care of severely obese adolescents who are currently unemployed. These young people, whose BMI is usually higher than 35 to 40 kg/m2 spend a 6 to 12 months long stay in an in-patient institution which also takes care of other unemployed non obese adolescents on an outpatient basis. Besides a nutritional education which is part of the everyday life of the institution, the program includes a generous amount of hours of physical activities and sports. The adolescents also participate in a rehabilitation training program which fosters the future integration in a professional milieu, such as an apprenticeship. The short term results of la Guglera seem very promising. The program is financially co-supported by the Swiss and cantonal administrations, the insurance companies and the parents.
Foreclosure and health status.	In 2009, more than 2.8 million housing units in the U.S. received a foreclosure notice. That represents about 1 in every 45 properties and a 120% increase in the number of foreclosed properties since 2007. Real estate experts predict even more foreclosures in 2010 as high unemployment continues. The cascading effects of the foreclosure crisis on the U.S. economy are all too clear; the effects on individuals' health status are less obvious. This Issue Brief summarizes two studies that examine the health implications of foreclosure and reveal a vulnerable population that may benefit from coordinated health and financial services.
Stroke death and unemployment in London.	The aim was to investigate the relationship between social factors and stroke mortality in men and women aged between 45 and 74 years using census and mortality data from 32 London boroughs in 1971 and 1981.
Social correlates of youth suicide rates in the United States.	The 1980 suicide rate of youths in the United States were found to be associated with three clusters of social variables: social integration, the age structure, and race/region. These associations also were found for older groups, suggesting similarities in the impact of social variables on regional suicide rates.
Racial segregation, income inequality, and mortality in US metropolitan areas.	Evidence of the association between income inequality and mortality has been mixed. Studies indicate that growing income inequalities reflect inequalities between, rather than within, racial groups. Racial segregation may play a role. We examine the role of racial segregation on the relationship between income inequality and mortality in a cross-section of US metropolitan areas. Metropolitan areas were included if they had a population of at least 100,000 and were at least 10% black (N = 107). Deaths for the time period 1991-1999 were used to calculate age-adjusted all-cause mortality rates for each metropolitan statistical area (MSA) using direct age-adjustment techniques. Multivariate least squares regression was used to examine associations for the total sample and for blacks and whites separately. Income inequality was associated with lower mortality rates among whites and higher mortality rates among blacks. There was a significant interaction between income inequality and racial segregation. A significant graded inverse income inequality/mortality association was found for MSAs with higher versus lower levels of black-white racial segregation. Effects were stronger among whites than among blacks. A positive income inequality/mortality association was found in MSAs with higher versus lower levels of Hispanic-white segregation. Uncertainty regarding the income inequality/mortality association found in previous studies may be related to the omission of important variables such as racial segregation that modify associations differently between groups. Research is needed to further elucidate the risk and protective effects of racial segregation across groups.
Occupational health services now and in the future: the need for a paradigm shift.	Occupational health services (OHS) evolved in response to the needs of hazardous industries and on the premise that work was harmful. In the developed world, most of these industries have disappeared, and classical occupational diseases are uncommon.
Screening for the risk of job loss in multiple sclerosis (MS): development of an MS-specific Work Instability Scale (MS-WIS).	Multiple sclerosis (MS) mainly presents amongst those of working age. Depending upon the type of MS, many people embark upon a long period of managing their day-to-day work-related needs in the face of intermittent and sometimes persistent disabling symptoms. The objective of this study was to explore the concept of work instability (WI) following the onset of MS and develop a Work Instability Scale (WIS) specific to this population.
The multiple sclerosis work difficulties questionnaire.	A better understanding of the workplace difficulties experienced by people with multiple sclerosis (PwMS) may be critical to developing appropriate vocational and rehabilitative programs.
Exploring the ecological association between crime and medical marijuana dispensaries.	Routine activities theory purports that crime occurs in places with a suitable target, motivated offender, and lack of guardianship. Medical marijuana dispensaries may be places that satisfy these conditions, but this has not yet been studied. The current study examined whether the density of medical marijuana dispensaries is associated with crime.
Health conditions sensitive to retirement and job loss among Korean middle-aged and older adults.	This study was conducted to examine the association between health condition and leaving the labor market among middle-aged and older adults in South Korea.
The Russo-Williamson Theses in the social sciences: causal inference drawing on two types of evidence.	This article examines two theses formulated by Russo and Williamson (2007) in their study of causal inference in the health sciences. The two theses are assessed against evidence from a specific case in the social sciences, i.e., research on the institutional determinants of the aggregate unemployment rate. The first Russo-Williamson Thesis is that a causal claim can only be established when it is jointly supported by difference-making and mechanistic evidence. This thesis is shown not to hold. While researchers in my case study draw extensively on both types of evidence, one causal claim out of the three analyzed is established even though it is exclusively supported by mechanistic evidence. The second Russo-Williamson Thesis is that standard accounts of causality fail to handle the dualist epistemology highlighted in the first Thesis. I argue that a counterfactual-manipulationist account of causality--which is endorsed by many philosophers as well as many social scientists--can perfectly make sense of the typical strategy in my case study to draw on both difference-making and mechanistic evidence; it is just an instance of the common strategy of increasing evidential variety.
Accidental out-of-hospital deliveries: a case-control study.	To determine risk factors for accidental out-of-hospital deliveries (OHDs), which represent 0.5% of live births in France and are associated with poor neonatal outcomes.
High levels of household food insecurity on the Navajo Nation.	To assess levels of and identify factors associated with food insecurity on the Navajo Nation.
Recipient's unemployment restricts access to renal transplantation.	Equitable distribution of a scarce resource such as kidneys for transplantation can be a challenging task for transplant centers. In this study, we evaluated the association between recipient's employment status and access to renal transplantation in patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD). We used data from the United States Renal Data System (USRDS). The primary variable of interest was employment status at ESRD onset. Two outcomes were analyzed in Cox model: (i) being placed on the waiting list for renal transplantation or being transplanted (whichever occurred first); and (ii) first transplant in patients who were placed on the waiting list. We analyzed 429 409 patients (age of ESRD onset 64.2 ± 15.2 yr, 55.0% males, 65.1% White). Compared with patients who were unemployed, patients working full time were more likely to be placed on the waiting list/transplanted (HR 2.24, p < 0.001) and to receive a transplant once on the waiting list (HR 1.65, p < 0.001). Results indicate that recipient's employment status is strongly associated with access to renal transplantation, with unemployed and partially employed patients at a disadvantage. Adding insurance status to the model reduces the effect size, but the association still remains significant, indicating additional contribution from other factors.
Consequences of musculoskeletal disorders on occupational events: a life-long perspective from a national survey.	Musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) are among the most frequent causes of disability, with potentially important consequences. Our objective was to investigate from a lifelong perspective the factors associated with these consequences, including permanent withdrawal from the workforce, focusing especially on factors at the start of working life.
Counseling and social work for persons with epilepsy: observational study on demand and issues in Hessen, Germany.	The goal of the social management of epilepsy is to decrease the physical, psychological, and social consequences for persons with epilepsy (PWEs). The objective of this observational study was to determine the needs and issues of PWEs in the utilization of epilepsy counseling services between 2008 and 2012 in the German state of Hessen. Sociodemographic data, employment status, counseling issues, and characteristics were collected at first and follow-up visits. An average of 492 (272 males, 55.3%) PWEs presented at counseling services per year. These were mainly children or adolescents below the age of 20years (22.4%) and PWEs in working age between 20 and 65years (73.6%). The majority of PWEs seeking counseling were employed (44.4%, annual average: 219 PWEs, SD: 39). However, a substantial part (114/219, 52.1%) of these employed PWEs reported problems or difficulties at their workplace associated with the diagnosis of epilepsy. We could identify four major issues addressed by the PWEs as 1) diagnosis of epilepsy, 2) employment, 3) family-related matters, and 4) social or medical aids linked with public authorities. This study demonstrated the continuous demand for epilepsy counseling with at least one out of twenty (5.8%) PWEs in need of counseling per year. Further studies are warranted to answer questions on outcome and long-term course. Epilepsy counseling should be available to all PWEs on a national level and may be helpful in preventing long-term unemployment and early retirement while maintaining quality of care for PWEs. 
The social profile of victims of suicide in major Greek correctional facilities.	Suicide rates in correctional institutions have been increasing during the last decades. The reasons for this increase remain unclear, yet a lot of contradictory explanations were stated: the increase might be due to mass incarceration and overcrowding of small cells resulting in high psychosocial stress, changes in psychiatric health policy which might have transferred the care for patients from mental hospitals to custodial institutions, or legislation changes that might have led to a selection of offenders at higher risk (e.g. offenders who committed high violent offences or suffered from mental disorders without being referred to psychiatric hospitals). In Greece the situation is not described in details, at least during the last few years. By law, every death of prisoner is subject to medicolegal investigation.
Cigarillo use among high-risk urban young adults.	In the U.S., cigar use doubled from 5.0 to 10.6 billion cigars consumed annually between 1997 and 2007, driven in large part by increased sales of cigarette-sized "little cigars" and narrow, mid-sized "cigarillos." The present study examined prevalence of cigarillo use as well as attitudes, knowledge and behaviors related to cigarillo use among a sample of predominantly urban African American young adults 18-24 not in school and not employed. Survey data were collected from 131 young adults attending education and job training centers in Baltimore, Maryland and from 78 young adults attending education, job training, or recreational programs in Washington, D.C. In Baltimore, 22% of young adults had smoked a cigarillo in the past 30 days, compared with nearly 63% in D.C. Both populations were heavily exposed to cigarillo advertising and marketing. Cigarillo use in this urban young adult population is a growing public health problem and undermines the progress made in decreasing cigarette use. 
Insomnia and accidents: cross-sectional study (EQUINOX) on sleep-related home, work and car accidents in 5293 subjects with insomnia from 10 countries.	The link between sleepiness and the risk of motor vehicle accidents is well known, but little is understood regarding the risk of home, work and car accidents of subjects with insomnia. An international cross-sectional survey was conducted across 10 countries in a population of subjects with sleep disturbances. Primary care physicians administered a questionnaire that included assessment of sociodemographic characteristics, sleep disturbance and accidents (motor vehicle, work and home) related to sleep problems to each subject. Insomnia was defined using the International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD-10) criteria. A total of 5293 subjects were included in the study, of whom 20.9% reported having had at least one home accident within the past 12 months, 10.1% at least one work accident, 9% reported having fallen asleep while driving at least once and 4.1% reported having had at least one car accident related to their sleepiness. All types of accident were reported more commonly by subjects living in urban compared to other residential areas. Car accidents were reported more commonly by employed subjects, whereas home injuries were reported more frequently by the unemployed. Car accidents were reported more frequently by males than by females, whereas home accidents were reported more commonly by females. Patients with insomnia have high rates of home accidents, car accidents and work accidents related to sleep disturbances independently of any adverse effects of hypnotic treatments. Reduced total sleep time may be one factor explaining the high risk of accidents in individuals who complain of insomnia. 
The economic burden of caregiving on families of children and adolescents with cancer: a population-based assessment.	Childhood cancer represents a relevant economic burden on families. The preferred tool to investigate family expenditure is the retrospective questionnaire, which is subject to recall errors and selection bias. Therefore, in the present study the economic burden of caregiving on families of children and adolescents (0-19 years of age) with cancer was analysed using administrative data as an alternative to retrospective questionnaires.
Association of rheumatic diseases with early exit from paid employment in Portugal.	To examine the association between rheumatic diseases (RD) and other chronic morbidity with early exit from paid employment in the Portuguese population. The study population consisted of all people between 50 and 64 years of age (3,762 men and 4,241 women) who participated in the Portuguese National Health Survey, conducted in 2005/2006. Data were collected on demographics, ill-health, lifestyle, and socioeconomic factors. Logistic regression was used to estimate the isolated effect of rheumatic diseases and other chronic diseases on the likelihood of exit from paid employment. At the time of the survey, 45.1 % of the Portuguese population with ages between 50 and 64 years old were not employed. In the nonemployed population, 31.6 % self-reported "poor" to "very poor" health, whereas 16.4 % did so in the employed population. A larger average number of major chronic diseases per capita were also found in those not employed (1.9 vs. 1.4, p < 0.001). In the multivariate models, chronic diseases were associated with early exit from paid employment. In particular, rheumatic diseases were more prevalent (43.4 vs. 32.1 %) and associated with early exit from work (OR 1.31; CI 1.12-1.52, p = 0.001). This study suggests an association between RD and other major chronic diseases with early exit from paid employment in Portugal. Thus, health and social protection policies should target these chronic disorders in order to better address sustainability issues and social protection effectiveness.
Risk factors and health during pregnancy among women previously exposed to sexual violence.	To determine whether women exposed to sexual violence in adolescence or adulthood are at increased risk of adverse maternal characteristics during subsequent pregnancies.
How co-morbidities magnify the effect of arthritis on labour force participation and economic status: a costs of illness study in Australia.	Few studies have assessed the impact of co-morbid conditions amongst patients with arthritis. This study will quantify the impact co-morbid health conditions have on the labour force status and economic circumstances of people with arthritis. This study uses a microsimulation model, Health&WealthMOD, to quantify the impact of co-morbidities on the labour force participation and economic circumstances of 45- to 64-year-old Australians with arthritis. The results show that the probability of being out of the labour force increases with increasing number of co-morbidities. However, there was no statistically significant difference in the amount of weekly private income received by people with arthritis and no co-morbidities, and people with arthritis and one or two co-morbidities. However, those with arthritis and three or more co-morbidities received a weekly private income 72 % lower than people with arthritis alone (95 % CI -82, -57). People with arthritis and co-morbidities paid less in tax and received more in government transfer payments. As such, it is important to consider the co-morbid conditions an individual has when assessing the impact of arthritis on labour force participation and economic circumstances. People with arthritis that have multiple co-morbid conditions are likely to have their labour force participation and economic circumstances interrupted much more than those with arthritis only.
Mental hospital depopulation in Canada: patient perspectives.	This paper reviews briefly the history of mental health depopulation in Canada over the past 30 years. The term "deinstitutionalization" is often used but is unsatisfactory. Using an exploratory, qualitative, methodological approach, data were collected on the problems encountered by a disproportionate, stratified random sample of 139 formerly institutionalized patients living in various geographical locales in Eastern Canada. Adopting a symbolic interactionist theoretical approach, this study, in an effort to fill a neglect in the literature, attempted to discover what the everyday world(s) of Canadian ex-mental patients was really like. Problems encountered related to stigma, poor housing, lack of back living skills, poverty, unemployment and aftercare. Quotations from patients are provided to illustrate such themes. The findings are discussed.
Association of childhood mortality with housing status and unemployment.	The association between mortality at the ages of 0-4 and 5-14 years in the county boroughs of England and Wales for 1971, using Kendall's correlation technique, and a variety of socioeconomic indicators, was computed. Kendall's partial correlation technique was used to determine whether any association remained when the effect of social class and unemployment was kept constant. At ages 0-4 years there was a significant and positive association between mortality and low socioeconomic position, high density housing, inadequate housing amenities, and the unemployment rate (P less than 0.001). A significant association with the housing variables remained when the effect of socioeconomic status and unemployment was kept constant. Between the ages 5-14 years there was a statistically significant association (P less than 0.001) between mortality and housing density which was eliminated when the effect of social class was held constant. There was no association between unemployment and mortality in this age group.
The impact of worker age on unemployment and earnings after plant closings.	This study examined how older workers who lost jobs due to a plant closing or plant move fared in the reemployment market. The data are from the January 1984 Current Population Survey, which included special questions focusing on displaced workers. Accelerated failure time equations are estimated to determine the relationships between age and duration without work following job loss. Regression equations explaining subsequent earnings also are estimated. Although older workers have lower overall unemployment rates than younger workers, those displaced due to a plant closing or move do not fare as well as their younger counterparts. Median length of unemployment for those age 55 and over was 27 weeks, which compared unfavorably to the 13 weeks found for workers under age 45. When controlling for other worker characteristics, older workers were found to experience more than four additional weeks of unemployment and earn less upon reemployment than younger workers.
Medical consequences of a factory closure: illness and disability in a four-year follow-up study.	The effect of a factory shut-down on sick leave and disability pensions was investigated in a four-year controlled follow-up study in a general practice setting. The study population consisted of 85 people, 72 women and 13 men, who lost their jobs when a sardine factory near Bergen in Norway was shut down in 1975. The employees of a nearby sister factory' within the same company were chosen as a control population, consisting of 87 people, 66 women and 21 men. The average amount of sick leave for the study group within the first year of follow-up showed a twofold increase compared to the controls. The rate of disability pensions, estimated by the life table method with appropriate adjustments, was more than three times higher in the study group than in the control group from the second through the fourth year of follow-up. The results of this investigation provide further evidence in support of a causal relationship between job loss and illness.
Back pain, back abnormalities, and competing medical, psychological, and social factors as predictors of sick leave, early retirement, unemployment, labour turnover and mortality: a 22 year follow up of male employees in a Swedish pulp and paper company.	A total of 391 male employees in a Swedish pulp and paper company were followed up for 22 years. As a part of a health examination in 1961 back pain reported by the subjects and abnormalities of the back as judged by the physicians were investigated with respect to predictive power regarding sick leave, early retirement, unemployment, labour turnover, and mortality during the follow up period. Univariate analysis showed that abnormalities of the back were better than back pain for predicting early retirement. Neither back pain nor back abnormalities had any predictive power with respect to long term sick leave, labour turnover, or mortality. Multivariate analyses of 26 variables were performed. Both self assessment of general health and back abnormalities were predictive for early retirement with a diagnosis of back disorder on the retirement certificate but self assessed health was a stronger predictor. Age, smoking, and neuroticism were predictors regarding early retirement for all diagnoses. Education had a negative association; neuroticism did not predict early retirement with a diagnosis of back disorder.
Social class, non-employment, and chronic illness: continuing the inequalities in health debate.	The 1981-2 General Household Survey showed steep class gradients in limiting longstanding illness for men and women aged 20-59 that were very similar to the class gradients in mortality in the 1979-83 decennial supplement. The class gradient for women classified by their husband's occupation was stronger than that when they were classified by their own occupation. Men and women who lacked paid employment reported poorer health than the employed and were concentrated in the lower social classes. Inequalities in ill health due to class were partly caused by the higher proportion in the lower social classes who were without work. Class differences in ill health still existed, however, among the currently employed, with unskilled men reporting particularly poor health and women manual workers reporting poorer health than women in non-manual jobs. Class differences were greater for the occupationless than for the currently employed. Thus class remains an important indicator of health inequalities despite the current high level of unemployment.
Unemployment and child abuse.	The employment state of men living in the homes of children at the time that child abuse was diagnosed was determined. The series included a wide range of abuse, including non-accidental injury, failure to thrive, neglect, and emotional deprivation. Two cohorts of children seen during 1974-9 and 1980-5 were compared; these periods were chosen because a large increase in unemployment began in Sheffield in 1980. Although the proportion of the men without work was significantly increased during the second period, this increase could not be ascribed to the rise in either long term or short term unemployment among those who had previously been in regular employment. It was accounted for by a rise in the proportions of single parent families and families in which the resident man had never had regular employment. This may reflect an increase in pregnancies among young mothers. There was no evidence to support the belief that the loss of a job in otherwise stable families leads to an increase in child abuse.
Male unemployment and cause-specific mortality in postwar Scotland.	This article reports a time-series analysis of male unemployment and mortality in postwar Scotland. The results provide little evidence to support the hypothesis that unemployment exerts a significant and consistent positive impact on mortality from all causes, lung cancer, ischemic heart disease, and cerebrovascular disease. Although significant positive associations between unemployment and mortality from lung cancer and ischemic heart disease were detected for older males in the short term, the long-term association between unemployment and mortality tends to be negative. Further progress on establishing possible causal relationships between unemployment and health requires both the collaboration of medical and social scientists and a well designed prospective study that avoids many of the problems associated with time-series and cross-sectional analyses.
Mental health of unemployed men in different parts of England and Wales.	In a study of mental health among unemployed men two contrasting hypotheses about the importance of the local unemployment rate were examined--namely, that very high local unemployment might be associated with either impoverishment or resilience of the community, which would affect health in opposite ways. The mental health of 954 unemployed men registered at 41 unemployment benefit offices in England and Wales was assessed by the general health questionnaire, men in areas of particularly high unemployment being compared with men in areas of moderate and relatively low unemployment. Scores for ill health were significantly lower in areas of particularly high unemployment, even when personal factors known to affect mental health during unemployment were controlled for. These results support the hypothesis that communities with high rates of unemployment develop resilience that is beneficial for the mental health of the unemployed.
Association between mortality among women and socioeconomic factors in general practices in Edinburgh: an application of small area statistics.	Women aged 45-64 in 78 general practices in the city of Edinburgh were followed up for five to seven years and all cause mortality noted. Standardised mortality ratios were calculated for the individual practices. Postcodes were available for a 20% sample of these women and were used to retrieve relevant measures of social class and deprivation from the 1981 census for the smallest division, the enumeration district. Weighted averages gave socioeconomic variables at the level of the general practice. High positive correlations were found between standardised mortality ratios and the socioeconomic variables, with the highest being for percentage overcrowding. This study established that the relation between deprivation and excess mortality can be shown in general practices in one large city and gave a direct relation for women without reference to their husbands' occupations, thus obviating problems of assigning social class. The data also partially refute the "social drift" hypothesis as an explanation of the association between mortality and social class.
Unemployment and mortality in Denmark, 1970-80.	Relative mortality in the period 1970-80 was studied among Danish men and women who were unemployed and employed on the day of the 1970 census. The study population consisted of the total labour force in the age range 20-64 on 9 November 1970--that is, about 2 million employed and 22,000 unemployed people. Relative mortality was analysed by a multiplicative hazard regression model (as a natural extension of the standardised mortality ratio) and a multiplicative regression model with extra-Poisson variation. A significantly increased death rate (40-50%) was found among the unemployed after adjusting for occupation, housing category, geographical region, and marital state. Analysis of five main causes of death showed increased mortality from all causes, but especially from suicide or accidents. In areas where the local unemployment rate was comparatively high the relative mortality among the unemployed was lower. The increased mortality among the unemployed was interpreted as a consequence of health related selection as well as increased susceptibility associated with the psychosocial stress of unemployment.
Certificated sickness absence in industrial employees threatened with redundancy.	The proposition that workers take less sick leave when threatened by redundancy was examined in a longitudinal, controlled study using information from case records in a general practice. The hypothesis was only partly supported--certificated sickness absence dropped only in employees under the age of 40. Workers fearing job loss reported more illness, and their periods of absence were significantly longer, especially for men and for workers who had previously consulted their general practitioner infrequently. This study provides further evidence that the fear of mass redundancy is stressful to workers so threatened and costly to a society experiencing rising unemployment.
Behavioral medicine and health psychology in a changing world.	Despite long-established roots in experimental psychophysiology and psychosomatic medicine, behavioral medicine and health psychology have only recently emerged as recognized, highly visible disciplines within medicine and the behavioral sciences. The rapid development of these fields has resulted partly from important scientific advances in the biomedical and behavioral sciences and partly from changing societal concerns and values. The latter include a greater preoccupation with individual self-expression and self-fulfillment, a decline in respect for authority per se, and an increased skepticism about social institutions. Coupled with these changes has been an increasing desire to take responsibility for one's own life and, in matters of health, of one's own body. The ways in which scientific advances and social changes have influenced the shape of contemporary behavioral medicine and health psychology are explored with the aid of two illustrations: the growth of a developmental perspective in behavioral medicine and health psychology; and work and health, including the effects of job stress and unemployment. Finally, the author stresses the need for a greater sense of community and concern for others, if we are to succeed in creating a growth-enhancing, health-producing climate for society as a whole and for each of us as individuals.
The psychological health and stress of pilots in a labor dispute.	This study investigated the psychological stress and psychiatric symptomatology in a representative sample of pilots involved in a labor dispute with management. Standardized epidemiological psychometric instruments revealed that one quarter of the pilots could be labelled "psychologically at risk" showing elevated symptoms of anger-hostility, paranoia, and obsessive-compulsiveness. A certain combination of personality scores with stress reactions was found to correctly classify pilots who were healthy vs. "at risk" with 92% accuracy. Interviews with pilots revealed both general causes of stress associated with a labor dispute as well as specific and unique sources of disturbances threatening safety in the air.
Youth unemployment and ill health: results from a 2-year follow-up study.	A prospective study was started in 1981, including all 1083 pupils in the last year of compulsory school in a municipality in the northern part of Sweden. All pupils were followed up after 2 years. They were investigated with a comprehensive self-administered questionnaire as well as studies of records and interviews with teachers and school nurses. The total non-participation rate in the study was less than 1%. The main results of the study are the following: unemployment leads to increased psychosomatic and psychological symptoms, decreased social activities in clubs, increased abuse of alcohol and narcotics and increased utilization of health care services. The effects of unemployment are somewhat different among girls and among boys. Girls are more exposed to unemployment and unemployment also leads to more negative effects among them. Hidden unemployment has the same effects as unemployment but the effects are less pronounced.
Diabetes clinic attendance and metabolic control. A pilot pan clinic study.	A descriptive analysis made of a total clinic population (127 patients) followed at a newly formed diabetic clinic from 1982 to 1985 the charts of all 127 patients were analysed for age, duration of diabetes and initial mean and last recorded haemoglobin A1C from 1st January, 1982 to 31st December, 1985. During the period of study, 76 patients continued to attend the clinic regularly and 55 patients were classified as "Non-Attenders" since they had failed to attend the clinic for a period of one year or more prior to a formal recall at the end of 1985. "Attenders" and "non-attenders" appeared to have similar ages and mean haemoglobin A1C's. However, there were more smokers, alcoholics and unemployed in the "non-attending" group. When comparison was made between the initial haemoglobin A1C (on the patient's first attendance at the clinic) and subsequent mean haemoglobin A1C's and final haemoglobin A1C's, it was discovered that the diabetic control of many patients that had attended the clinic regularly had not improved (45 out of 76). On the otherhand, a considerable number of the "non-attending" patients had improved spontaneously without clinic attendance (13 out of 38). The patients that had attended the clinic and not improved tended to be younger, were more often school children, unmarried, unemployed and/or smokers. The results reported in this preliminary paper are insufficient to allow full statistic analysis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Unemployed youth and health: findings from the pilot phase of a longitudinal study.	Contemporary research perspectives on the impact of unemployment on health and well-being among young people have tended to focus on a rather narrow range of outcomes, typically those in the mental health domain. The impetus for the proposed longitudinal study, the main dimensions of which are described in this paper, reflects the need for a more comprehensive profiling of the health needs and experiences of young people if effective interventions tailored to their short and long term health needs are to be developed. The proposed study includes variables from a wide range of domains and adopts an interdisciplinary perspective. The feasibility of the approach, both in terms of establishing appropriately stratified samples and determining the acceptability and utility of the measures proposed has been examined during an extensive pilot phase. Findings from the database established during this phase are presented. These focus on multi-dimensional comparisons of health and well-being between employed and unemployed young people, the impact of socio-economic status of origin on cardiovascular and other indicators, and the correlates of health and well-being among the unemployed. The results point to the potential complexity of the influences on health status and behaviour and the need to develop comprehensive models of this for research and intervention purposes.
Unemployment-related lifestyle changes and health disturbances in adolescents and children in the western countries.	According to official statistics 11 million under 25's, thereof 5-6 million under 20's in the 12 OECD member states are unemployed at any given time. In depth studies show that this figure is at least 40-50% higher. In many countries a systematic under-reporting exists in the registration of unemployed. Surveys used to show more relevant figures. Unemployment hits mainly adolescents, school leavers, young adults (unskilled male and female) immigrants and then, indirectly, those who are in need of familial and social support, i.e. the frail, sick, disabled children and old people. In many cities in Europe 40-50% of 18-25 year olds are unemployed and figures as high as 90% have been reported (inner cities). Unemployment is endangering the socio-economic status of people, in spite of short-time unemployment benefits and is creating inequalities in health and serious social misfits. Loss of job or the mere prospect of becoming jobless have, in follow-up studies on an individual level, been found to cause elevated blood pressure and serum cholesterol, increased concentration of blood catecholamine and elimination of noradrenaline, an increase in the frequency of stress and psychosomatic diseases. After regaining employment, these values have normalized. Unemployment is therefore considered by many as a real source of stress. Chronic stress is now considered as a major contributor to cardiovascular diseases, ulcers, asthma and some other diseases. According to several well designed and controlled studies on the individual level in the developed countries, the majority of young people do not learn to cope with unemployment. It fosters isolation, loss of self-esteem, frustration and hopelessness.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Health care for the indigent: overview of critical issues.	Health care for the indigent is a major problem in the United States. This review of the literature on health care for the indigent was undertaken to determine which major questions remain unresolved. Overall, this article finds that a very large pool of individuals under age 65 are at risk of being medically indigent. A myriad of health programs for some economically disadvantaged individuals do exist, but their level of funding has fluctuated over time--and many poor individuals must rely entirely on the generosity of a relatively small number of hospitals and other providers for their care. Economic pressures on these providers as well as structural changes in the health care sector can only adversely affect the amount of charity care that they offer. It is clear that a well-planned solution to indigent care in the United States, rather than a piecemeal approach, is needed.
What are health authorities doing about the health problems caused by unemployment?	Unemployment is over three million in Britain, and unemployment is known to be associated with poor health. It has been suggested that health authorities should produce a comprehensive response to the health problems caused by unemployment, and a survey was undertaken to find how many had done so. All the regional and district health authorities in England, the health boards of Wales, Scotland, and Northern Ireland, and the family practitioner committees of England and Wales were asked by letter what they were doing to respond to the health problems of unemployment. A list of suggestions of what they might be doing was enclosed. The overall response rate was 77% (255/331), and 50% (127/255) of the respondents were doing something--33.3% (3/9) of the regional health authorities, 64% (101/158) of the district health authorities and health boards, and 26% (23/88) of the family practitioner committees. The paper describes what they were doing. A relation was sought between the level of unemployment in an area and the extent of the response, and a significant association was found. Half of Britain's health authorities are now responding in some way to the health problems associated with unemployment.
Survival analysis in drug program evaluation. Part II. Partitioning treatment effects.	Survivorship analysis is applied to both a summative process (during treatment) and a summative outcome (after discharge) evaluation comparing data obtained from 297 admissions to multiple-site methadone maintenance programs in three California counties. Measures included rates of retention, incarceration, addiction, crime, dealing, and loss of employment. In order to take full advantage of the multiple outcome measures that were used, a method for within-subject simultaneous consideration of all outcome measures is presented. This method is an adaptation of the Friedman nonparametric analysis of variance and a Bonferroni post hoc comparison of the mean ranks.
Unemployment and mortality: a small area analysis.	It has been claimed that unemployment affects the health and thus the mortality of the unemployed, their families, and other members of their communities. This paper examines the relation between mortality and the unemployment experiences of small areas which vary in the extent to which their unemployment levels have changed in recent years. Quarterly numbers of unemployed, classified by age, sex, duration of unemployment, and unemployment office for 1977-81, have been aggregated to correspond to Family Practitioner Committee areas (FPCs), for which population and mortality data had been collected for a different study. There was little variation in long term (greater than 6 months) unemployment trends prior to July 1980, but subsequently there were large variations between FPCs in the rate of increase in unemployment rates. Mortality data for suicide, ischaemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and all causes were examined for the period 1975-83. When the mortality trends of FPCs with different unemployment experiences were compared, no statistically significant differences in trends were found, although areas with greater increases in unemployment appeared to have slightly worse mortality trends for suicide, ischaemic heart disease, cerebrovascular disease, and total mortality for men in the younger age groups. If changes in the level of unemployment do have an effect on changes in trends in mortality levels, this effect is not of sufficient magnitude to be statistically significant with the sample available, in spite of the fact that it included the whole of England and Wales.
The growth and composition of the U.S. labor force.	In sharp contrast with the experiences of all other industrialized nations, the size of the labor force of the United States is growing rapidly while, simultaneously, its age, gender, and ethnic composition are changing markedly. Consequently, human resource issues present an unprecedented challenge in the nation's quest to achieve a fully employed and equitable society. New public policies that focus on labor market adjustment policies will be required if these developments are to be a boon rather than a bane to the emerging postindustrial economy.
The employed unemployed: the subterranean economy in Spain.	This paper discusses the relationship between the subterranean economy and unemployment. Clandestine economic activity provides jobs at low incomes, but also bad and dangerous working conditions and job insecurity. Governments and even trade unions tend to ignore the wider implications of the underground economy. Three main forms of submerged economy are identified.
The choices to be made.	If we are to avoid unemployment when technology increases productivity, we have two choices. We must increase our level of material living (more private luxury gadgets or more public luxury services) and/or decrease our total working time. These choices reflect social power relations. Capital owners and leaders of labour unions normally endorse the standard increase solution. The unemployed are for the reduction in hours, hoping to get a share of the labour time. Studies reported here indicate that a solid majority of ordinary men and women also seem to prefer the reduction in working time solution.
Economic change, alcohol consumption and heart disease mortality in nine industrialized countries.	This paper examines the question of whether economic changes--including economic growth, unemployment and business failures--and alcohol consumption by beverage type are independently related to heart disease mortality. Controls for cigarette and animal fat consumption are also employed in a multivariate time series analysis. Data for nine countries in the post World War II era are investigated: Australia, Canada, England and Wales, Denmark, Federal Republic of Germany, Finland, France, Sweden and the United States. In all nine countries unemployment and business failures are positively related to heart disease mortality, and in eight countries the trend of economic growth shows an inverse relationship. The relation of alcohol consumption to heart disease mortality depends on beverage type. When spirits or wine consumption shows a significant relation, occasionally requiring controls for other beverages, it is positive. On the other hand, beer consumption shows an inverse relation to heart disease mortality in all countries. The statistical significance of that relationship also occasionally must be based on controls for other beverages.
Youth unemployment--individual and societal consequences, and new research approaches.	The social effects of youth unemployment must be described in connection with the special unemployment situations which this condition implies for youths. Periods of joblessness are in general short and alternate with job programmes or educational programmes, a situation which can be characterised as a 'permanent impermanence'. Unemployment must also be seen in light of its occurrence during a central stage of a youth's development. The social effects are primarily of three kinds: those limited to the individual welfare, those concerning the individual's connection to his group and those concerning the individual's relationship with society. The first mentioned is most commonly expressed psychosomatically or socio-medically, the second socio-psychologically and the third socio-culturally or societally.
Long-term unemployment among women in Sweden.	Vulnerability at long-term unemployment is discussed and the results of a study of the effects of job loss and long-term unemployment among Swedish women are presented. Psychological and physiological data for the unemployed were sampled repeatedly over a two year period. Some of the unemployed were subject to an intervention programme aiming at buffering for the possibly negative effects of unemployment. Health data from matched control groups of employed were gathered over the same period. The results indicate a strong negative stress reaction at the job loss period, followed by a gradual adaptation to the conditions of unemployment as measured by biochemical and physiological health indicators. However, a substantial proportion of the unemployed compared to the employed showed a lower degree of psychological well-being and more severe depressive reactions. Recommendations are given concerning further research approaches on long-term unemployment. Policy implications to reduce vulnerability at long-term unemployment are discussed.
Coping with unemployment--a contribution to the understanding of women's unemployment.	The aim of this paper was to contribute to the understanding of women's unemployment with emphasis on individual reactions in terms of their significance and context. The study was carried out within the methodological tradition of grounded theory. Thirty-six unemployed women were interviewed. The reactions to unemployment were seen in relation to two, systematically generated core variables: 'the relation to wage labour' and 'the relation to alternative activities'. Four different groups of unemployed were identified in light of their relations to these two core variables. They were called 'the give-uppers', 'the clenchers', 'the refocusers' and 'the ambivalents'. Serious effects of unemployment were found among the give-uppers and the clenchers. The refocusers on the other hand, enjoyed their lives and had replaced the loss of work with other meaningful activities.
Prolonged unemployment and depression in older workers: a longitudinal study of intervening variables.	In this study, unemployed blue-collar workers over the age of 45 (N = 51) filled out a questionnaire in 1975 and in 1977. It was shown that prolonged unemployment or re-unemployment leads to depression, reduced hope, and financial problems, although none of these factors leads to prolonged unemployment. Being employed or retired leads to a reduction of depression and financial problems. Problems associated with the daily hassles of unemployment, such as financial problems and disappointed hope play a role in the development of depression with prolonged unemployment. Potential third variables that could cause both unemployment and depression--such as internal/external control, passivity, sickness, and age--do not affect the effect of unemployment on depression.
The psychological meaning of job insecurity and job loss: results of a longitudinal study.	This paper presents some results from a longitudinal intensive study of 26 shipyard workers during a period of two years. Unemployment was found to comprise a process consisting of a series of psychological crisis due to loss of important factors contributing to identity. The anticipatory phase was found to be a very burdening phase of unemployment due to the prolonged uncertainty. Despite good economic compensation depressive reactions were noticed. Other psychological reactions were irrational job seeking behaviour. The attitudes towards work were investigated. The central concepts of meaning of work was found to be unconscious and mediated early during childhood and to change very slowly. The shipyard workers tried to maintain an old working identity but especially the old, single men had difficulties to stand firm to it. Some of them intensifies alternative to work, like fishing, hunting and other activities and, in a way, continue to work. The single, older unemployed men were found to be a risk group.
Relation of economic change to Swedish health and social well-being, 1950-1980.	To what extent, and through what mechanisms, does the deterioration of economic conditions affect the health of the population at the national level? In this paper, the author presents the results of a study of Swedish data, analyzing the post-World War II changes in mortality rates in relation to deleterious economic changes, especially unemployment, business failure rates, and declines in real per capita income. The analysis uses a version of the 'Economic Change Model of Pathology' which includes the influence of health risks related to patterns of consumption and production. It is found that economic growth plays a principal role in reducing mortality at nearly all ages, and specifically mortality due to total cardiovascular disease, cerebrovascular disease, total heart disease, ischemic heart disease, total malignancies, disorders of infancy, and motor vehicle accidents. Economic recession, by contrast, is related to increases in total mortality for virtually all age groups, in both sexes, for major causes of death and causes due to psychopathological conditions. Per capita alcohol consumption, by specific beverage, is an important risk to mortality rates in cerebrovascular disease, malignancies, cirrhosis, motor vehicle accidents, suicide, homicide, and infant diseases. Cigarette consumption rates are positively related to mortality due to cardiovascular, malignant, and infant diseases; fat consumption rates are positively related to cardiovascular and cancer mortality.
Economic growth and industrial expansion and renewal as instruments to achieve full employment.	Institutional changes have weakened the capacity of market economies to adjust with sufficient speed to change in factor prices and in the available technology. As a consequence of this lower flexibility traditional economic policy instruments are no longer effective in creating growth and employment. This is the overall theme of the analysis presented in this paper concerning the reasons for our current long-term employment problems.
Some experiences of Yugoslavia in solving of unemployment.	Unemployment in Yugoslavia represents one of the most serious economic, social and political problems. The causes are numerous: migration from rural to urban areas, discrepancies between education and market demands. The profile of the unemployed Yugoslav is a specific one: young, under 30 years of age, the graduate of a secondary or high school, and a somewhat larger number of females. Measures undertaken are numerous and extend from the Federation to each work organisation. Organised efforts made by young people themselves are of particular importance for the solving of the unemployment problem.
Alleviating depression in the unemployed: adequate financial support, hope and early retirement.	Results of a longitudinal study on older blue-collar workers in the Federal Republic of Germany (Soc. Sci. Med. 25, 173-178, 1987) showed that people who retired out of unemployment improve in depression similar to those people who found a job. Furthermore, financial problems and disappointed hope were important in the development of depression in the unemployed. These results are relevant for measures to alleviate depression in the unemployed in three areas: early retirement and an increase of financial unemployment compensation are recommended. Furthermore, all those programs (like counseling or therapeutic programs) that increase hope to find a job without increasing the chances to find a job have to be viewed with skepticism because they might actually turn out to be dysfunctional.
Unemployment causes ill health: the wrong track.	It is not unemployment per se that causes ill health. It can be a very desirable state. There are no diseases specific to unemployment. Contrast this with employment. Unemployment shares with all other socio-environmental situations risk of exposure to common physical, social and psychological stressors that predispose to disease. Focus for action and research should be on reducing such stressors and not on provision of full employment. The former is likely to be possible and beneficial. The latter is likely to be impossible and carries a risk of making matters worse. As an immediate first step, that will reduce 'cratogenic' disease, people in authority should stop misleading the public into believing that unemployment is the cause of ill health.
An alternative model.	In present Western societies, we witness the growing power of the state over the citizens, with an ever-growing flow of freedom-encroaching regulations, legitimated by the wish to keep full employment for all, for all of life. It is suggested here that a major political challenge for the rest of this millenium is to find a limit for the state's material responsibility for, and claims on, its citizens. This can only be done if we divide society into one highly regulated basic needs sector and other free sectors, in which state influence is minimized. This is like dividing trains into smoking and non-smoking compartments.
Five risk factors for depression.	Significantly more of 300 patients with non-endogenous depression compared with 300 matched controls were unemployed and had a poor marriage before the onset of depression, had a first-degree relative who had been treated for depression, had experienced separation for one year or more from a parent before 17 years of age and had three or more children under 14 years of age at home. However, significantly more of 44 patients with endogenous depression, than their 46 controls, also had a poor marriage before the onset of depression and 43% of them had a first-degree relative who had been treated for depression. Thus a family history of depression and a poor marriage before the onset of depression are associated with both non-endogenous and endogenous depression but unemployment, separation for one year or more from a parent before 17 years of age, and having three or more young children at home may be risk factors for non-endogenous depression.
Stress, ethnic and distribution factors in a dichotomous response model of alcohol abuse.	An emerging methodology, the dichotomous response model, is applied to alcohol abuse. The model permits the systematic integration of events and factors from various theories of alcohol abuse as well as random influences to affect the outcome. Both the sociological and distribution of consumption hypotheses are drawn on to specify the factors influencing alcohol abuse. The empirical results based on data from Canada and the United States indicate that ethnic and stress factors strongly influence alcohol abuse. The stress variables include the rates of unemployment and divorce. The ethnic variables are the percentages of the population that are of African, French, Italian and Mexican ancestry. Distribution variables such as price, income and control measures were generally less important.
Psychological correlates of unemployment among male parasuicides in Edinburgh.	Variations in clinical features associated with unemployment among a sample of male parasuicides were examined. Employed and unemployed persons did not differ in mean scores on the Suicidal Intent Scale, but the unemployed were rated significantly worse on measures of depression (Beck Depression Inventory) and hopelessness (Hopelessness Scale). A covariance analysis showed that hopelessness, rather than depression, is the important discriminator. Different patterns of relationships between the three clinical measures were observed in the two groups. Hopelessness may be a key social-psychological variable for inclusion in any model of the pathways which link unemployment with parasuicide.
Does violence have cognitive correlates?	The relationship between cognitive function and violence in 76 remanded prisoners, without formal psychiatric illness, was investigated. The violent group tended to be of slightly lower general ability than the non-violent group, but not abnormally so in relation to the general population; no relationship was found between specific patterns of cognitive functioning and violence. The violent group reported significantly higher levels of neurotic symptoms than the non-violent group, and were more socially deviant. To a small extent, general intelligence (reasoning ability), in interaction with many other factors, may be related to a propensity for violent behaviour, but no particular aspect of cortical functioning seems to be related to violence.
Levels of state anxiety for males facing redundancy and subsequently reporting to be employed or unemployed.	State anxiety scores for male adults, facing redundancy, were elevated whilst subjects awaited dismissal. Six months later, anxiety levels fell most notably for the reemployed. Simple strategies, providing some amelioration for individuals during the stressful anticipation period, were rarely provided by employers.
Job-loss and health--the influence of age and previous morbidity.	Analysis of data on morbidity in a group of factory workers shows a significant increase when these workers are threatened with and subsequently made redundant. The influence of increasing age and of low prior morbidity are shown to be detrimental to the health of both male and female employees. When these risk factors are combined these employees show a 150% increase in the number of consultations, a 70% increase in the number of episodes of illness, a 160% increase in the number of referrals to hospital outpatient departments and a 200% increase in the number of attendances at outpatient departments.These changes occur two years before actual job-loss when the workers learn that their employee is in financial difficulty and their jobs are in jeopardy.It is suggested that older employees demonstrate greater stress because of their poor re-employment prospects and reduced adaptability. It is also suggested that existing differences in consulting tendency might represent differing levels of work attachment among the employees - the low consulters being most strongly oriented towards their jobs and therefore suffering the greater loss when made redundant.
Job-loss and morbidity in a group of employees nearing retirement age.	As part of a study of the morbidity of a group of workers made redundant from a meat products factory, the health of employees nearing retirement has been investigated. Consultations, episodes of illness and referrals to and attendances at hospital outpatient departments were recorded annually as the indices of morbidity. With the threat of redundancy a significant increase in morbidity was noted for the male employees but not for the female employees. It is suggested that these men adapt less easily to redundancy than the women.
Occupational reintegration of psychiatric patients hospitalized for the first time in the year following their discharge--results of a prospective longitudinal study]	A short-term occupational prognosis had been given for first-admission psychiatric patients, occasioned by information from the field that, in case of mentally ill persons, measures for their vocational rehabilitation frequently either are started too late, or are inappropriate in scope, because associated impairments are insufficiently dealt with, underrated, or even overlooked at all in the early stages of the illness. Following Wing's concept of disability, an attempt was moreover made to identify barriers for occupational resettlement. The findings provided the basis for considering the question of scope and type of within-clinic or external measures to be initiated, or stepped up, to facilitate these clients' access to gainful employment and, hence, able to positively influence the future course of their condition.
Impact of recession on Swiss pension program.	Legislation drafted in Switzerland in 1975--77 aims at countering the effects of inflation and recession by bringing increased revenues into the system, reducing expenditures, devising a mechanism to adjust pensions automatically, and improving income maintenance for the unemployed. The proposed legislation to place the social security system on a sound financial basis now needs voter approval in a referendum. Swiss voters meanwhile rejected (in mid-1977) a government-proposed value-added tax designed to finance increasing government contributions during 1978-82. Still to be resolved, therefore, is the problem of how the government will finance higher contributions and still achieve its staged goal of a balanced budget.
More self-insurance programs affected by new Medicare rules.	This article notes recent revisions in Medicare policy regarding reimbursement for Unemployment and Worker's Compensation expenses under self-insurance programs.
Psychiatric impairment, physical health and work values among unemployed and apprenticed young men.	A cross-sectional study was carried out to compare psychiatric impairment in young unemployed men and apprentices from Sydney's western suburbs. The unemployed men were found to have a psychiatric case rate (as defined by the GHQ) of 48% as against a rate of 28% for the apprentices. Comparisons of the unemployed men and apprentices on other measures indicated that they did not differ in physical health nor in the value they attached to work. The unemployed, however, were older on average, less well educated and had experienced a poorer quality of parental upbringing than the apprentices. A log-linear analysis revealed that the adverse effects of unemployment on mental health were not attributable to poor quality of upbringing.
The development of conceptions of unemployment among adolescents.	Although children's economic concepts and young people's experience of unemployment are being increasingly investigated, as yet there is very little work on adolescents' understanding of unemployment. The research that has been carried out in this area is not developmental research. In this study children's ideas about unemployment were investigated by interviewing 40 children from two age groups (11 to 12 years and 15 to 16 years). The children were asked to define unemployment, to indicate if and how unemployed people differed from those with a job and asked if they would like to be unemployed. The results showed that, with age, understanding of unemployment became more abstract and more global. Compared with the younger children, the adolescents offered more societal and fatalistic explanations for unemployment, saw the unemployed as fundamentally similar to the employed and regarded the principal undesirable effects of unemployment as social-psychological rather than economic.
Adolescent adjustment to amputation.	We investigated the psychological effects of amputation on adolescent patients by interviewing 27 persons who had a limb amputation because of cancer during their adolescence and compared them to data obtained from eight patients with amputations due to trauma at similar ages. In cancer patients, mobility-related activities and social matters including relations with peers and the opposite sex and self-consciousness were of paramount concern. All cancer patients considered themselves functionally independent and 67% had little or no concern for the future. While malignancy and amputation had a significant impact on the patients' lives, the vast majority had a positive view of life and 85% were found to have what we assessed as adequate overall adjustment. Individual variables examined included marital and child-bearing patterns, educational attainments, vocational attainments, perceived parental and peer support, adaptation to prosthesis, and variables relating to general outlook on life and psychological adjustment. Our results suggest that the patients who have had amputations due to malignancy differ from traumatic amputees in their adjustment to amputation, with cancer patients showing, in many instances, evidence of better adaptation to disability. This may in part be due to different backgrounds and social orientation of traumatic amputees. We found the majority of cancer amputees to adjust well to their circumstances and to report leading full and productive lives.
Dynamics of losses in the life history of a cancer patient]	Affective and social losses are frequently reported in the prodromic period of overt cancer. The aim of this paper is to determine bereavement in the life history of cancer patients, holding the hypothesis that early events could enhance stress produced by recent events. a) It was found that between 1 to 14 years of age, 60% (12/20) of hospitalized cancer patients of both sexes (Mean Age: Males 57.3, Females 49,5), having different cancer diagnosis, mainly in advanced stages, which were selected for psychotherapeutic assistance, had definitive parent losses with a statistically higher difference (p less than 0.0011) over healthy controls of people over 70 years old (Mean Age: Males 82.4, Females 79.1), with only 10% (2/20). Moreover, the same ratio was maintained in an additional sample of patients: 14/30 had parent loss in infancy. Patients also showed higher rates of mother absence compared with controls: the latter having only 5% (1/20), while the former had 50% (10/20). b) More frequent and tragic losses were detected in patients life history: 55% (11/20), than in controls: 20% (4/20). c) It was found that 65% (13/20) of patients had affective losses in the period 5 years previous to the rise of cancer symptoms, that in fact could be related symbolically with early bereavement: 6/7 patients that showed losses of their couple in this lapse, had definitive losses or disappointment of their parents in their infancy. d) In order to establish a effect of bereavement upon the clinical course of cancer, the effect of deaths among other seriously ill patients in the same hospitalization Unit was studied. Statistical analysis using the X2 test showed that 50% of deaths of 49 male patients occurred within one year, had a space of 5 days or less between them, differing statistically (P less than 0.01) from a random distribution with deaths spaced 7.3 days, hence showing clustering instead of an homogeneous distribution. It is postulated that losses during the subclinical and clinical periods of cancer could operate as powerfull stressors, as they may relate psychologically to childhood bereavement and/or a frequent and tragic losses history.
Incidence of utilization of public mental health facilities as a function of short-term economic decline.	Analysis of the incidence of utilization of public mental health facilities during a 6-year time span yielded a significant relationship between lower occupational status and utilization of inpatient facilities. Further analysis revealed a significant relationship between education and utilization of outpatient facilities. Both of the findings held for 6 to 9 months after the beginning of economic decline.
The spatial distribution of depressive illness in Plymouth.	Diagnostic and demographic data were collected from all 2,298 psychiatric hospital admissions for affective illnesses from private households in the City of Plymouth for the six-year period 1970-1975 inclusive. Intercorrelations of diagnostic subtypes were performed, together with a multiple regression analysis against spatial and ecological data from the 1971 Census. Rate differences were related to the geographic structure of Plymouth. With psychotic illnesses, ecological correlations were low for male and female first admissions and for male readmissions. However, important correlations relating to socio-economic status, housing tenure and structure, population instability, and other sociodemographic features emerged in varying degrees of specificity for reactive and neurotic illness in males, and for all readmissions in females, largely irrespective of diagnostic subtype. Explanations for the processes underlying these patterns are offered in terms of population structure, particularly the differing vulnerability of age and marital status groups, the referral and diagnostic process, social and physical stresses in the lower socioeconomic groups, and urban drift.
Task force report: the macroenvironment and community mental health.	The U.S. President's Commission on Mental Health (1978) has called for a broader conception of mental health and the factors that influence it. The "macro"-social environment is emerging as one area of concern. The influence of two macroenvironmental domains, the physical and economic, on several areas of human functioning is documented in this article. Topics in the physical domain include noise and crowding; and in the economic domain, socio-economic status, unemployment, and economic change. The implications of this research for community mental health practice is described.
Health effects of anticipation of job change and non-employment: longitudinal data from the Whitehall II study.	To assess the effect of anticipating job change or non-employment on self reported health status in a group of middle aged male and female white collar civil servants.
Employment, race and poverty in West Virginia: implications for practicing physicians.	Since West Virginia became a state in 1863 and slavery was abolished, poverty has been a persistent problem for black Americans. Although blacks have become increasingly a part of the total workforce, moving from the lowest level, lowest paid jobs to higher level, better paying ones, unemployment, poverty, and their common sequelae still persist and significantly differentiate black from white Americans. While racial discrimination has been a factor in black poverty for many decades, another critical factor responsible for black poverty today and in the past, is something which both blacks and physicians can help to change--unplanned parenthood.
DSM-III-R generalized anxiety disorder in the National Comorbidity Survey.	Nationally representative general population data are presented on the current, 12-month, and lifetime prevalence of DSM-III-R generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) as well as on risk factors, comorbidity, and related impairments.
Using unemployment rates to predict prescribing trends in England.	There are many factors underlying trends in prescribing levels in England.
Education and employment for young people with diabetes.	Educational achievements and employment experiences were examined using a postal questionnaire in a random sample of diabetic clinic attenders and non-diabetic control subjects aged 16-21 years, selected from 13 different centres in Great Britain. A response rate of 63% and 42% for diabetic and control subjects, respectively, was obtained. The diabetic group experienced a significantly greater number of health difficulties and problems at school (compared with their control group (21% vs 11%, p = 0.01) and there was a significant difference in perceived useful careers advice obtained at school for the two groups (5% vs 59%, p < 0.0001, diabetic and control groups, respectively). There was no difference in the number of General Certificates of Secondary Education (GCSEs) and Advanced (A) level qualifications obtained between the two groups. Of the young people who had left school, diabetic adolescents were significantly more likely to report having lost their jobs than their non-diabetic counterparts (19% vs 6%, p = 0.002). The diabetic group were also more likely to report that they were unable to do the job they wanted compared with the non-diabetic group (28% vs 16%, p = 0.005) and were more likely to report shift work problems (41% vs 12%, p = 0.04). With the increasing rate of unemployment it is important that youngsters with diabetes obtain specific diabetes-orientated vocational guidance in order to plan their careers and provision should be made for this in educational establishments.
A geographical distribution of mortality and deprivation.	Because of the paucity of data on the geographical distribution of mortality and deprivation in the Republic of Ireland, we calculated SMRs for each county for the years 1982-6. Two measures of mortality were used, all cause and avoidable mortality. Two indexes of deprivation were also calculated for each county, Townsend's and a new Irish index. Significant differences in mortality exist between counties. Counties that had SMRs significantly below the national standard of 100 were Meath, Donegal and Galway. Counties with significantly high SMRs were Louth, Limerick and Westmeath. County SMRs were correlated with both deprivation indexes and no significant correlation was found to explain the apparent differences in mortality.
The effects of welfare status on psychological distress among Southeast Asian refugees.	It has been established in the general population that there is a relationship between welfare status and psychological well-being. There are few studies, however, which investigate the effects of welfare dependency on Southeast Asian refugees, a population that is highly dependent on welfare. This study examined the relationship between welfare status and psychological well-being among Vietnamese, Cambodian, Laotian, and Hmong refugees. The study compared three welfare groups: those who have never been on welfare, those who were once dependent on welfare and are no longer on welfare, and those who are still welfare-dependent. The results supported three hypotheses: a) a high percentage of all four refugee groups were still dependent on welfare even after being in the United States for an average of 5 to 6 years, b) a significant relationship was found between welfare dependency and psychological distress, and c) dependence on welfare had long-term effects for all four groups. An interesting finding that emerged for the Vietnamese, Cambodians, and Laotians was that individuals who were once on welfare but who are no longer receiving welfare benefits are at similar risk as their counterparts who are currently on welfare of developing psychological distress. The findings therefore showed that for this population, if individuals had been touched by welfare at any period in their lives, they were at risk of developing psychological distress. There was an unexpected different finding for the Hmong; individuals who were no longer on welfare were more at risk than those who continued to receive or never had received welfare. Reasons for the intergroup differences and why refugees tended to stay on welfare longer than the general population were explored, along with a discussion about the implications of the findings for refugee policy.
Unemployment rate as an updatable health needs indicator for small areas.	The objective of the study was to compare updatable unemployment rates with the unemployment rate and composite deprivation indices from the 1991 Census as health needs indicators for small areas.
Unemployment, sociodemographic background and consumption of alcohol before and during the economic recession of the 1990s in Finland.	Some studies suggest that people's alcohol consumption increases during unemployment whereas others suggest the opposite. All studies, however, deal with situations marked by relatively low national unemployment rates. We studied alcohol use among individuals in relation to unemployment, education, marital status and sex during times of both low and high unemployment in Finland.
Targeting the underserved for breast and cervical cancer screening: the utility of ecological analysis using the National Health Interview Survey.	This study tested the utility of ecological variables created from the National Health Interview Survey (NHIS) for strategic targeting of health services for the underserved.
Neoliberalism, "globalization," unemployment, inequalities, and the welfare state.	This analysis of "neoliberalism" and its economic and social consequences is presented in six sections. Section I begins by describing the impact of neoliberal public policies on economic growth and inflation, on business profits and business investments, on productivity, on business credit, on unemployment and social inequalities, on social expenditures, and on poverty and family debt. The author shows that, except in the area of business profits and control of inflation, neoliberal policies have not proved superior to those they replaced. Section II deals with unemployment and social polarization in the developed capitalist countries. The author criticizes some of the theories put forward to explain these social problems, such as the introduction of new technologies and globalization of the economy, and suggests that a primary reason for these problems is the implementation of neoliberal policies. Section III challenges the widely held neoliberal perception that the U.S. economy is highly efficient and the E.U. economies are "sclerotic" due to their "excessive" welfare states and "rigid" labor markets. The author shows that the U.S. economy is not so dynamic, nor the E.U. economies so sclerotic. Some developed countries with greater social protection and more regulated labor markets are shown to be more successful than the United States in producing jobs and lowering unemployment. The reasons for the growing polarization in developed capitalist countries, rooted in political rather than economic causes, are discussed in section IV--especially the enormous power of the financial markets and their influence on international agencies and national governments, and the weakness of the labor movements, both nationally and internationally. Section V questions the major theses of globalization. The author shows that rather than globalization of commerce and investments, we are witnessing a regionalization of economic relations stimulated by political considerations. He also analyzes the globalization of capital finance, criticizing the thesis that capital markets are determining public policies. The economic determinism that underlies the globalization position is questioned, uncovering the importance of political explanations for understanding major social problems such as unemployment. Finally, section VI shows that neoliberal public policies on the deregulation of labor markets are creating enormous instability in the labor force, worsening the living conditions of the majority of the populations.
