Essential role of the unfolded protein response regulator GRP78/BiP in protection from neuronal apoptosis.	Neurodegenerative diseases are often associated with dysfunction in protein quality control. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a key site for protein synthesis, senses stressful conditions by activating the unfolded protein response (UPR). In this study we report the creation of a novel mouse model in which GRP78/BiP, a major ER chaperone and master regulator of UPR, is specifically eliminated in Purkinje cells (PCs). GRP78-depleted PCs activate UPR including the induction of GRP94, PDI, CHOP and GADD34, feedback suppression of eIF2alpha phosphorylation and apoptotic cell death. In contrast to current models of protein misfolding in which an abnormal accumulation of ubiquitinated protein is prominent, cytosolic ubiquitin staining is dramatically reduced in GRP78-null PCs. Ultrastructural evaluation reveals that the ER shows prominent dilatation with focal accumulation of electron-dense material within the ER. The mice show retarded growth and severe motor coordination defect by week 5 and cerebellar atrophy by week 13. Our studies uncover a novel link between GRP78 depletion and reduction in cytosolic ubiquitination and establish a novel mouse model of accelerated cerebellar degeneration with basic and clinical applications.
Hepatic Bax inhibitor-1 inhibits IRE1alpha and protects from obesity-associated insulin resistance and glucose intolerance.	The unfolded protein response (UPR) or endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response is a physiological process enabling cells to cope with altered protein synthesis demands. However, under conditions of obesity, prolonged activation of the UPR has been shown to have deteriorating effects on different metabolic pathways. Here we identify Bax inhibitor-1 (BI-1), an evolutionary conserved ER-membrane protein, as a novel modulator of the obesity-associated alteration of the UPR. BI-1 partially inhibits the UPR by interacting with IRE1alpha and inhibiting IRE1alpha endonuclease activity as seen on the splicing of the transcription factor Xbp-1. Because we observed a down-regulation of BI-1 expression in liver and muscle of genetically obese ob/ob and db/db mice as well as in mice with diet-induced obesity in vivo, we investigated the effect of restoring BI-1 expression on metabolic processes in these mice. Importantly, BI-1 overexpression by adenoviral gene transfer dramatically improved glucose metabolism in both standard diet-fed mice as well as in mice with diet-induced obesity and, critically, reversed hyperglycemia in db/db mice. This improvement in whole body glucose metabolism and insulin sensitivity was due to dramatically reduced gluconeogenesis as shown by reduction of glucose-6-phosphatase and phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase expression. Taken together, these results identify BI-1 as a critical regulator of ER stress responses in the development of obesity-associated insulin resistance and provide proof of concept evidence that gene transfer-mediated elevations in hepatic BI-1 may represent a promising approach for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
Thermal aggregation of glycated bovine serum albumin.	Aggregation and glycation processes in proteins have a particular interest in medicine fields and in food technology. Serum albumins are model proteins which are able to self-assembly in aggregates and also sensitive to a non-enzymatic glycation in cases of diabetes. In this work, we firstly reported a study on the glycation and oxidation effects on the structure of bovine serum albumin (BSA). The experimental approach is based on the study of conformational changes of BSA at secondary and tertiary structures by FTIR absorption and fluorescence spectroscopy, respectively. Secondly, we analysed the thermal aggregation process on BSA glycated with different glucose concentrations. Additional information on the aggregation kinetics are obtained by light scattering measurements. The results show that glycation process affects the native structure of BSA. Then, the partial unfolding of the tertiary structure which accompanies the aggregation process is similar both in native and glycated BSA. In particular, the formation of aggregates is progressively inhibited with growing concentration of glucose incubated with BSA. These results bring new insights on how aggregation process is affected by modification of BSA induced by glycation.
Rescue of F508del-CFTR by RXR motif inactivation triggers proteome modulation associated with the unfolded protein response.	F508del-CFTR, the most common mutation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) protein, disrupts intracellular trafficking leading to cystic fibrosis (CF). The trafficking defect of F508del-CFTR can be rescued by simultaneous inactivation of its four RXR motifs (4RK). Proteins involved in the F508del-CFTR trafficking defect and/or rescue are therefore potential CF therapeutic targets. We sought to identify these proteins by investigating differential proteome modulation in BHK cells over-expressing wt-CFTR, F508del-CFTR or the revertant F508del/4RK-CFTR. By 2-dimensional electrophoresis-based proteomics and western blot approaches we demonstrated that over-expression of F508del/4RK-CFTR modulates the expression of a large number of proteins, many of which are reported interactors of CFTR and/or 14-3-3 with potential roles in CFTR trafficking. GRP78/BiP, a marker of ER stress and unfolded protein response (UPR), is up-regulated in cells over-expressing either F508del-CFTR or F598del/4RK-CFTR. However, over-expression of F508del/4RK-CFTR induces the up-regulation of many other UPR-associated proteins (e.g. GRP94, PDI, GRP75/mortalin) and, interestingly, the down-regulation of proteasome components associated with CFTR degradation, such as the proteasome activator PA28 (PSME2) and COP9 signalosome (COPS5/CSN5). Moreover, the F508del-CFTR-induced proteostasis imbalance, which involves some heat shock chaperones (e.g. HSP72/Hpa2), ER-EF-hand Ca(2+)-binding proteins (calumenin) and the proteasome activator PA28 (PSME2), tends to be 'restored', i.e., in BHK cells over-expressing F508del/4RK-CFTR those proteins tend to have expression levels similar to the wild-type ones. These findings indicate that a particular cellular environment orchestrated by the UPR contributes to and/or is compatible with F508del/4RK-CFTR rescue.
Gene expression profiles in Atlantic salmon adipose-derived stromo-vascular fraction during differentiation into adipocytes.	Excessive fat deposition is one of the largest problems faced by salmon aquaculture industries, leading to production losses due to high volume of adipose tissue offal. In addition, increased lipid accumulation may impose considerable stress on adipocytes leading to adipocyte activation and production and secretion of inflammatory mediators, as observed in mammals.
Pathological roles of MAPK signaling pathways in human diseases.	The mammalian family of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) includes extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK), p38, and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK), with each MAPK signaling pathway consisting of at least three components, a MAPK kinase kinase (MAP3K), a MAPK kinase (MAP2K), and a MAPK. The MAPK pathways are activated by diverse extracellular and intracellular stimuli including peptide growth factors, cytokines, hormones, and various cellular stressors such as oxidative stress and endoplasmic reticulum stress. These signaling pathways regulate a variety of cellular activities including proliferation, differentiation, survival, and death. Deviation from the strict control of MAPK signaling pathways has been implicated in the development of many human diseases including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's disease (PD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and various types of cancers. Persistent activation of the JNK or p38 signaling pathways has been suggested to mediate neuronal apoptosis in AD, PD, and ALS, whereas the ERK signaling pathway plays a key role in several steps of tumorigenesis including cancer cell proliferation, migration, and invasion. In this review, we summarize recent findings on the roles of MAPK signaling pathways in human disorders, focusing on cancer and neurodegenerative diseases including AD, PD, and ALS.
Effects of congenital cataract mutation R116H on alphaA-crystallin structure, function and stability.	alpha-crystallin is a molecular chaperone that maintains the optical properties of the lens and delays the onset scattering caused by aging-related protein aggregation. In this research, we found that the missense mutation R116H resulted in an altered size distribution, impaired packing of the secondary structures and modified quaternary structure with great hydrophobic exposure. The mutant exhibited a substrate-dependent chaperone (aggregation-inhibition) or anti-chaperone (aggregation-promotion) effect. Equilibrium unfolding experiments indicated that the mutation stabilized an aggregation-prone intermediate which was not populated during the unfolding of the wild-type protein. The accumulation of this intermediate greatly promoted the formation of non-native large oligomers or aggregates during unfolding. These results suggested that both the aggregation of the mutant upon stress and co-deposition with the target proteins were likely to be responsible for the onset of cataract.
Unfolded protein response (UPR) gene expression during antibody-dependent enhanced infection of cultured monocytes correlates with dengue disease severity.	DENV (dengue virus) induces UPR (unfolded protein response) in the host cell, which strikes a balance between pro-survival and pro-apoptotic signals. We previously showed that Salubrinal, a drug that targets the UPR, inhibits DENV replication. Here, we examine the impact on UPR after direct or ADE (antibody-dependent enhanced) infection of cells with DENV clinical isolates. THP-1 cells in the presence of subneutralizing concentration of humanized antibody 4G2 (cross-reactive with flavivirus envelope protein) or HEK-293 cells (human embryonic kidney 293 cells) were infected with DENV-1-4 serotypes. UPR gene expression was monitored under these infection conditions using real-time RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) and Western blots to analyse serotype-dependent variations. Subsequently, in a blinded study, strain-specific differences were compared between DENV-2 clinical isolates obtained from a single epidemic. Results showed that THP-1 cells were infected efficiently and equally by DENV-1-4 in the ADE mode. At 48 hpi (h post infection), DENV-1 and -3 showed a higher replication rate and induced higher expression of several UPR genes such as BiP (immunoglobulin heavy-chain-binding protein), GADD34 (growth arrest DNA damage-inducible protein 34) and CHOP [C/EBP (CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein)-homologous protein]. The ADE infection of THP-1 cells with epidemic DENV-2 high-UPR-gene-expressing strains appears to correlate with severe disease; however, no such correlation could be made when the same viruses were used to infect HEK-293 cells. Our finding that UPR gene expression in THP-1 cells during ADE infection correlates with dengue disease severity is consistent with a previous study [Morens, Marchette, Chu and Halstead (1991) Am. J. Trop. Med. Hyg. 45, 644-651] that showed that the growth of DENV 2 isolates in human peripheral blood leucocytes correlated with severe and mild dengue diseases.
Level of activation of the unfolded protein response correlates with Paneth cell apoptosis in human small intestine exposed to ischemia/reperfusion.	In the intestine, Paneth cells participate in the innate immune response. Their highly secretory function makes them susceptible to environmental conditions that cause endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. We investigated whether intestinal ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) induces ER stress, thereby activating the unfolded protein response (UPR), and whether excessive UPR activation affects Paneth cells. In addition, we investigated the consequences of Paneth cell compromise during physical barrier damage.
Cardiomyocyte-specific disruption of Serca2 in adult mice causes sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum stress and apoptosis.	Reduced sarco(endo)plasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) ATPase (SERCA2) contributes to the impaired cardiomyocyte Ca(2+) homeostasis observed in heart failure. We hypothesized that a reduction in SERCA2 also elicits myocardial ER/SR stress responses, including unfolded protein responses (UPR) and cardiomyocyte apoptosis, which may additionally contribute to the pathophysiology of this condition. Left ventricular myocardium from mice with cardiomyocyte-specific tamoxifen-inducible disruption of Serca2 (SERCA2 KO) was compared with aged-matched controls. In SERCA2 KO hearts, SERCA2 protein levels were markedly reduced to 2% of control values at 7 weeks following tamoxifen treatment. Serca2 disruption caused increased abundance of the ER stress-associated proteins CRT, GRP78, PERK, and eIF2α and increased phosphorylation of PERK and eIF2α, indicating UPR induction. Pro-apoptotic signaling was also activated in SERCA2 KO, as the abundance of CHOP, caspase 12, and Bax was increased. Indeed, TUNEL staining revealed an increased fraction of cardiomyocytes undergoing apoptosis in SERCA2 KO. ER-Tracker staining additionally revealed altered ER structure. These findings indicate that reduction in SERCA2 protein abundance is associated with marked ER/SR stress in cardiomyocytes, which induces UPR, apoptosis, and ER/SR structural alterations. This suggests that reduced SERCA2 abundance or function may contribute to the phenotype of heart failure also through induction of ER/SR stress responses.
The polypeptide binding conformation of calreticulin facilitates its cell-surface expression under conditions of endoplasmic reticulum stress.	We define two classes of calreticulin mutants that retain glycan binding activity; those that display enhanced or reduced polypeptide-specific chaperone activity, due to conformational effects. Under normal conditions, neither set of mutants significantly impacts the ability of calreticulin to mediate assembly and trafficking of major histocompatibility complex class I molecules, which are calreticulin substrates. However, in cells treated with thapsigargin, which depletes endoplasmic reticulum calcium, major histocompatibility complex class I trafficking rates are accelerated coincident with calreticulin secretion, and detection of cell-surface calreticulin is dependent on its polypeptide binding conformations. Together, these findings identify a site on calreticulin that is an important determinant of the induction of its polypeptide binding conformation and demonstrate the relevance of the polypeptide binding conformations of calreticulin to endoplasmic reticulum stress-induced interactions.
The unfolded protein response in familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.	Mutant superoxide dismutase type 1 (MTSOD1) is thought to cause ∼20% of cases of familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (FALS) because it misfolds and aggregates. Previous studies have shown that MTSOD1 accumulates inside the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and activates the unfolded protein response (UPR), suggesting that ER stress is involved in the pathogenesis of FALS. We used a genetic approach to investigate the role of the UPR in FALS. We crossed G85RSOD1 transgenic mice with pancreatic ER kinase haploinsufficient (PERK(+/-)) mice to obtain G85R/PERK(+/-) mice. PERK(+/-) mice carry a loss of function mutation of PERK, which is the most rapidly activated UPR pathway, but have no abnormal phenotype. Compared with G85R transgenic mice, G85R/PERK(+/-) mice had a dramatically accelerated disease onset as well as shortened disease duration and lifespan. There was also acceleration of the pathology and earlier MTSOD1 aggregation. A diminished PERK response accelerated disease and pathology in G85R transgenic mice presumably because the mice had a reduced capacity to turn down synthesis of misfolded SOD1, leading to an early overloading of the UPR. The results indicate that the UPR has a significant influence on FALS, and suggest that enhancing the UPR may be effective in treating ALS.
Antioxidant defense is one of the mechanisms by which mosquito cells survive dengue 2 viral infection.	Dengue viruses (DENVs) generally induce apoptosis in mammalian cells but cause only minor damage in mosquito cells. To find genes involved in determining the cell fate, datasets derived from expressed sequence tags (ESTs) of C6/36 cells with and without infection were established. Of overexpressed genes found in infected dataset, chaperone proteins were validated significantly upregulated in C6/36 cells at 24 hpi. It suggests that DENV-2 in mosquito cells activates the unfolded protein response to cope with endoplasmic reticular stress. Changes in the mitochondrial membrane potential and generation of superoxide provided further evidence that DENV-2 induces oxidative stress in both C6/36 and BHK-21 cells. Significant elevation of glutathione S-transferase (GST) activity was shown in infected C6/36, but not BHK-21, cells, while suppression of GST produced superoxide at 36 hpi and increased the cell death rate at 48 hpi. This indicates that mosquito cells protect themselves against viral infection through antioxidant defenses.
The unfolded protein response in mouse cerebral cortex.	The unfolded protein response (UPR) is important for normal cellular homeostasis, development, and physiology. Endoplasmic reticulum stress and the UPR have also been implicated in a variety of diseases and pathologies. Thus the UPR is being studied in many model systems. We describe in this chapter methods for studying the UPR in a mouse model, specifically the cerebral cortex of mouse brain.
Immunohistochemical detection of the unfolded protein response in atherosclerotic plaques.	It is well established that activation of the unfolded protein response (UPR) occurs during all stages of plaque development and progression. Mouse models of atherosclerosis have allowed the study of the UPR in the complex environment of lesions which are composed of different cell types, abundant extracellular matrix, as well as necrotic and apoptotic areas. For proper evaluation of the UPR, the processing, sectioning, and staining of lesions have to be performed in a consistent and reproducible manner. In this chapter, we describe in detail how to embed aortic roots in paraffin, cut serial sections through the aortic root, measure lesion size, and stain paraffin sections by immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and the terminal dUTP nick-end-labeling (TUNEL) technique, with special attention to the proteins involved in the UPR.
The role of PDI as a survival factor in cardiomyocyte ischemia.	Acute myocardial infarction (AMI) leads to activation of unfolded protein response (UPR) following endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Failing in the restoration of the proper folding activity in the ER can lead to apoptosis and cell death. While it can be easy to detect transcripts and proteins expression alterations during a pathological state, it can be difficult to address the importance of changes in protein expression in the physiopathological context. We found protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) increased expression in human autoptic heart samples correlating with cell survival following AMI. PDI enzymatic activity resulted to be important to achieve cardiomyocyte protection from hypoxic stress, dependent on its ability to relieve ER stress preventing accumulation of nonfolded proteins in the ER, and to enhance superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD-1) activity. Furthermore, adenoviral-mediated PDI overexpression in an in vivo mouse model of AMI prevented adverse cardiac remodeling reducing cardiomyocyte apoptosis. Finally, we suggest a method to detect alterations in normal redox state in PDI (and eventually in the PDI family's proteins) during pathologies in which ER stress is induced. Diabetes pathology correlates with increased risk of AMI and worse cardiac remodeling. We found an alteration in PDI redox state in the diabetic heart and suggest using this system for the detection of the redox state alteration to screen for therapies able to restore the proper redox state.
Measurement of the increase in endoplasmic reticulum stress-related proteins and genes in adipose tissue of obese, insulin-resistant individuals.	Here, we provide a detailed description of proteomic, Western blot and RT-PCR analyses performed to examine fat biopsy samples from lean insulin-sensitive and obese insulin-resistant nondiabetic individuals for evidence of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Subcutaneous fat biopsies were obtained from the upper thighs of six lean and six obese nondiabetic subjects. Fat homogenates were used for proteomic (two-dimensional gel (2DE) and MALDI-TOF/TOF), Western blot, and RT-PCR analysis. Proteomic analysis revealed 19 differentially upregulated proteins in fat of obese subjects. Three of these proteins were the ER stress-related unfolded protein response (UPR) proteins calreticulin, protein disulfide-isomerase A3, and glutathione-S-transferase P; Western blotting revealed upregulation of several other UPR stress-related proteins, including calnexin, a membrane-bound chaperone, and phospho c-jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK)-1, a downstream effector protein of ER stress; RT-PCR analysis revealed upregulation of the spliced form of X-box-binding protein-1s, a potent transcription factor and part of the proximal ER stress sensor inositol-requiring enzyme-1 pathway. These findings demonstrate of UPR activation in subcutaneous adipose tissue of obese human subjects. As JNK can inhibit insulin action and activate proinflammatory pathways, ER stress activation of JNK may be a link between obesity, insulin resistance, and inflammation.
Measurement of the unfolded protein response (UPR) in monocytes.	In mammalian cells, the primary function of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is to synthesize and assemble membrane and secreted proteins. As the main site of protein folding and posttranslational modification in the cell, the ER operates a highly conserved quality control system to ensure only correctly assembled proteins exit the ER and misfolded and unfolded proteins are retained for disposal. Any disruption in the equilibrium of the ER engages a multifaceted intracellular signaling pathway termed the unfolded protein response (UPR) to restore normal conditions in the cell. A variety of pathological conditions can induce activation of the UPR, including neurodegenerative disorders such as Parkinson's disease, metabolic disorders such as atherosclerosis, and conformational disorders such as cystic fibrosis. Conformational disorders are characterized by mutations that modify the final structure of a protein and any cells that express abnormal protein risk functional impairment. The monocyte is an important and long-lived immune cell and acts as a key immunological orchestrator, dictating the intensity and duration of the host immune response. Monocytes expressing misfolded or unfolded protein may exhibit UPR activation and this can compromise the host immune system. Here, we describe in detail methods and protocols for the examination of UPR activation in peripheral blood monocytes. This guide should provide new investigators to the field with a broad understanding of the tools required to investigate the UPR in the monocyte.
Discovery approaches to UPR in athero-susceptible endothelium in vivo.	The endothelium is a monolayer of cells that lines the entire inner surface of the cardiovascular and lymphatic circulations where it controls normal physiological functions through both systemic and local regulation. Endothelial phenotypes are heterogeneous, dynamic and malleable, properties that in large- and medium-sized arteries lead to a central role in the development of focal and regional atherosclerosis. The endothelial phenotype in athero-susceptible sites is different from that in nearby athero-resistant regions. Understanding the in vivo gene, protein, and metabolic expression profiles of susceptible endothelium is, therefore, an important spatiotemporal challenge in atherosclerosis research. Recent studies have demonstrated that endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the UPR are characteristics of susceptible endothelium. Here, we outline global genomic profiling, pathway analyses, and gene connectivity approaches to the identification of UPR and associated pathways as discrete markers of athero-susceptibility in arterial endothelium.
Assessment of endoplasmic reticulum stress and the unfolded protein response in endothelial cells.	In the vascular wall, the most inner cell layer that separates the blood from organelles is comprised of only a single layer of endothelial cells (ECs). This cell type is fundamental to a large variety of processes, ranging from blood coagulation and interaction with inflammatory cells to cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, and atherosclerosis. Dysfunction of ECs is often causally linked to these processes such that research exploring such events attracted much attention. Damage of ECs and subsequent disruption of the intact endothelial barrier can result not only from oxidative stress, but also from conditions that stress the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and induce a signaling pathway termed unfolded protein response (UPR). While its primary goal is to alleviate ER stress, the UPR can also induce cell death. Cultured ECs are often used in in vitro approaches to understand various pathophysiological events, but they behave differently from many other cell types such that cell-type-specific procedures are needed. Here, we describe how ER stress can be induced and assessed in cultured ECs and demonstrate their specific responses to classical ER stress conditions.
Measuring the impact of cigarette smoke on the UPR.	The unfolded protein response (UPR) is a set of pathways activated by the accumulation of improperly folded proteins. It can be triggered by a broad range of stressful conditions which disrupt successful maturation of proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) by interfering with proper folding, assembly, and posttranslational modification. Recent studies have demonstrated the induction of ER stress and activation of elements of the UPR in human lung cells exposed to diesel exhaust particles, airborne particulate matter, and tobacco smoke. ER stress has been found to play a role in a variety of lung maladies, including cancer, infections, idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Lung cancer is one of the few diseases where the etiological agent, cigarette smoke (CS), is well known. It is, therefore, desirable to measure dysregulation of the UPR pathway in samples representing both the earliest events (cells exposed to CS in vitro) and in clinical samples from healthy smokers and individuals with smoking-related lung diseases. We hereby provide a detailed description of methods for assessing the degree and timing of cellular response to CS with respect to the three major UPR pathways.
Induction of ER stress response leading to programmed cell death in Trypanosoma brucei.	Trypanosomes are parasitic protozoans that include several medically and a variety of economically important parasites, such as Trypanosoma brucei, the causative agent of sleeping sickness. This parasite cycles between the insect host (procyclic form) and mammalian host (bloodstream form). These parasites lack transcription regulation, including factors that govern the unfolded protein response (UPR) in other eukaryotes. Gene expression is controlled posttranscriptionally by unique mechanisms such as trans-splicing and RNA editing and by mRNA stability. In trans-splicing, a common exon, the spliced leader (SL) is donated to all mRNAs from a small RNA, the SL RNA. The SL RNA is transcribed from a defined promoter assisted by the tSNAP complex. Despite the lack of transcriptional regulation, induction of ER stress elicits changes in the transcriptome similar to those induced by conventional UPR found in other eukaryotes. The mechanism of upregulation under UPR is dependent on differential stabilization of mRNAs. The transcriptome changes result in ER expansion and elevation in the ER chaperone, BiP. Prolonged ER stress induces the spliced leader RNA silencing (SLS) pathway. SLS is the trypanosome-specific stress response mechanism that elicits the shut-off of SL RNA transcription by perturbing the binding of the transcription factor tSNAP42 to its cognate promoter, eliminating trans-splicing of all mRNAs. SLS was discovered in the RNAi silenced cells depleted for functions that mediate translocation of proteins to the ER such as the signal recognition particle receptor SRα, SEC63- a factor that participates in protein translocation across the ER membrane, or SEC61- the translocation channel. Induction of SLS, either by prolonged ER stress or silencing of the genes associated with the ER membrane that function in ER protein translocation led to programmed cell death (PCD), evident by the exposure of phosphatidyl serine, DNA laddering, increase in ROS production, increase in cytoplasmic Ca(2+), and decrease in mitochondrial membrane potential. Here, we describe the protocols to induce ER stress and to observe the resulting morphological changes by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), changes in cytoplasmic Ca(2+), and DNA fragmentation which are the hallmarks of programmed cell death.
Measurement of activation of the endoplasmic reticulum stress response in autoimmune myositis.	Evidence suggests that both immune (cell-mediated and humoral) and nonadaptive immune (endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and autophagy) mechanisms play a role in muscle fiber damage and dysfunction in idiopathic inflammatory myopathies (IIM). More recently, the ER stress response pathway, the activation of unfolded protein response, and the ER overload response are being studied to understand their contribution in the progression of IIM. A variety of qualitative and quantitative techniques are used to measure the activation of the endoplasmic reticulum stress response in myopathy. Accurately assessing the activation of ER stress response pathway would not only help in the understanding of disease pathogenesis but would also help to assess the response to therapy. Here, we describe common techniques such as western blotting, immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and determination of mRNA levels for the gene of interest to monitor the ER stress in skeletal muscle tissues.
Activation of the unfolded protein response in human acute myeloid leukemia.	There is accumulating evidence for the involvement of the unfolded protein response (UPR) in the pathogenesis of many tumor types in humans. This is particularly the case in rapidly growing solid tumors in which the demand for oxygen and nutrients can exceed the supply until new tumor-initiated blood vessels are formed. In contrast, the role of the UPR during leukemogenesis remains largely unknown. Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is a genetically heterogeneous clonal disorder characterized by the accumulation of somatic mutations in hematopoietic progenitor cells that alter the physiological regulation of self-renewal, survival, proliferation, or differentiation. The CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein alpha (CEBPA) gene is a key myeloid transcription factor and a frequent target for disruption in AML. In particular, translation of CEBPA mRNA can be specifically blocked by binding of the chaperone calreticulin (CALR), a well-established effector of the UPR, to a stem loop structure within the 5' region of the CEBPA mRNA. The relevance of this mechanism was first elucidated in certain AML subtypes carrying the gene rearrangements t(3;21) or inv(16). In our recent work, we could demonstrate the induction of key effectors of the UPR in leukemic cells of AML patients comprising all subtypes (according to the French-American-British (FAB) classification for human AML). The formation of the spliced variant of the X-box binding protein (XBP1s) was detectable in 17.4% (17 of 105) of AML patients. Consistent with an activated UPR, this group had significantly increased expression of the UPR target genes CALR, the 78 kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP78), and the CCAAT/enhancer-binding protein homologous protein (CHOP). Consistently, in vitro studies confirmed that calreticulin expression was upregulated via activation of the ATF6 pathway in myeloid leukemic cells. As a consequence, CEBPA protein expression was inhibited in vitro as well as in leukemic cells from patients with activated UPR. We therefore propose a model of the UPR being involved in leukemogenesis through induction of calreticulin along the ATF6 pathway, thereby ultimately suppressing CEBPA translation and contributing to the block in myeloid differentiation and cell-cycle deregulation which represent key features of the leukemic phenotype. From a more clinical point of view, the presence of activated UPR in AML patient samples was found to be associated with a favorable disease course.
Modulation of the unfolded protein response by GRP78 in prostate cancer.	The unfolded protein response (UPR) is an adaptive survival mechanism through which cells can weather the stress of misfolded protein accumulation induced by a wide variety of pathophysiologic and pharmacologic insults. The ER chaperone GRP78 is a central modulator of the UPR both through its protein-binding capacity and its direct regulation of the UPR signaling molecules IRE1α, PERK, and ATF6. Recent reports have revealed the presence of GRP78 on the surface of cancer cells. Biological roles for cell-surface GRP78 include competing NH(2)-domain and COOH-domain agonist receptor activities that induce opposite effects on proliferation and apoptosis. Modulation of the UPR impacts both of these processes directly and indirectly. Here, we outline methods that we use to investigate UPR modulation via direct ligation of cell-surface GRP78. Specifically, we review methods of cell culture, cell-signaling analysis with emphasis on UPR components, and ultimately, the impact that these have on cell proliferation, survival, and apoptosis.
Endoplasmic reticulum stress in brain damage.	The efficient functioning of the ER is indispensable for most of the cellular activities and survival. Disturbances in the physiological functions of the ER result in the activation of a complex set of signaling pathways from the ER to the cytosol and nucleus, and these are collectively known as unfolded protein response (UPR), which is aimed to compensate damage and can eventually trigger cell death if ER stress is severe or persists for a longer period. The precise molecular mechanisms that facilitate this switch in brain damage have yet to be understood completely with multiple potential participants involved. The ER stress-associated cell death pathways have been recognized in the numerous pathophysiological conditions, such as diabetes, hypoxia, ischemia/reperfusion injury, and neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, and bipolar disorder. Hence, there is an emerging need to study the basic molecular mechanisms of ER stress-mediating multiple cell survival/death signaling pathways. These molecules that regulate the ER stress response would be potential drug targets in brain diseases.
Methods and models for monitoring UPR-associated macrophage death during advanced atherosclerosis.	During advanced atherosclerosis, chronic activation of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress pathway, otherwise known as the unfolded protein response (UPR), is strongly associated with atherosclerotic plaque destabilization, the precursor to acute myocardial infarction and sudden death. Destabilized or vulnerable plaques are characterized by features that include thinning of a protective collagenous cap at the interface between the plaque and the vascular lumen and expansion of the necrotic core, a lipid-rich graveyard of dead macrophages. The cell biology of advanced plaque progression is complex and includes multiple cellular stressors that combine to promote chronic inflammation and progressive plaque deterioration. Several of these stressors converge at the ER, leading to activation of the UPR in multiple cell types. In macrophages, prolonged UPR activation triggers apoptosis, which when coupled to defective phagocytic clearance of these dying cells, leads to secondary necrosis and expansion of the plaque necrotic core. Though much insight has been gained recently on the role of the UPR in atherosclerosis, future studies are warranted to determine the cell-type specific contributions of ER stress to athero-progression and the therapeutic potential of UPR modulation. For such objectives to be met, reliable and standardized methodology must be utilized and developed. This chapter summarizes our current understanding of ER stress-induced macrophage apoptosis in atheromata and outlines both in vitro and in vivo methodologies to quantify the UPR in the context of experimental murine-advanced atherosclerosis.
Detecting autophagy in response to ER stress signals in cancer.	Different physiological and pathological situations that produce alterations in the endoplasmic reticulum, lead to a condition known as ER stress. ER stress activates a complex intracellular signal transduction pathway, called unfolded protein response (UPR). UPR is tailored essentially to reestablish ER homeostasis. However, when persistent, ER stress can switch the cytoprotective functions of UPR into cell death promoting mechanisms. One of the cellular mechanisms that are regulated by ER stress is autophagy. Autophagy is a cellular process by which different cytoplasmic components including organelles are targeted for degradation to the autophagosomes. Interestingly, like ER stress, autophagy can be a protective or a cell death promoting mechanism. Recently, a variety of anticancer therapies (including those that stimulate ER stress) have been shown to activate autophagy in tumor cells, which has been proposed to either enhance cancer cell death or act as a mechanism of resistance to chemotherapy. In this chapter, we will describe some of the procedures that are currently used to analyze autophagy as well as some of the experimental approaches that can be undertaken to investigate the connection between ER stress and autophagy in cancer.
The unfolded protein response induced by salt stress in Arabidopsis.	Salt stress has a major impact on plant growth and crop production, pointing to the importance of understanding the mechanism of salt tolerance in plants. Disruption of the protein-folding capacity in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) induces the accumulation of unfolded protein and ER stress, which activates an "unfolded protein response" (UPR). Although reports show that salt stress leads to UPR in various organisms, including plants, it remains to be determined how salt stress induces UPR. Zinc deficiency also induces UPR in a wide range of organisms. Here we provide a detailed description of the role of zinc in initiating UPR in the plant response to salt stress along with details of the methodology required for its investigation.
Measurement of ER stress response and inflammation in the mouse model of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease.	In eukaryotic cells, the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the organelle that is responsible for protein folding and assembly, lipid and sterol biosynthesis, and intracellular calcium storage. Biochemical or pathophysiological stimuli that disrupt protein-folding reaction or increase protein-folding load can cause accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER lumen, a condition called "ER stress". As an adaptive intracellular stress response initiated from the ER, unfolded protein response (UPR) alleviates the accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER. It has been demonstrated that the UPR is a fundamental intracellular signal transduction response that is critical for health and disease. ER stress and other cellular stress responses, such as inflammation and oxidative stress, are integrated in many pathophysiological processes. Particularly, recent research demonstrated that ER stress and the UPR signaling are critically involved in the initiation and progression of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). Under metabolic stress conditions, the UPR regulates transcriptional and translational programs that are associated with hepatic steatosis and inflammation, the major characteristics of NAFLD. In this chapter, we summarize reliable methods to quantitatively analyze the UPR and hepatic inflammation in the mouse model of NAFLD.
Real-time monitoring of ER stress in living cells and animals using ESTRAP assay.	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is involved in a wide range of pathologies. Detection and monitoring of the unfolded protein response are required to disclose the link between ER stress and diseases. Assessment of ER stress is also essential for evaluation of therapeutic drugs in vitro and in vivo; that is, their therapeutic utility as well as adverse effects. For detection and monitoring of ER stress in living cells and animals, ER stress-responsive alkaline phosphatase (ESTRAP), also called secreted alkaline phosphatase (SEAP), serves as a useful indicator. In cells genetically engineered to express SEAP, secretion of SEAP is quickly downregulated in response to ER stress. This phenomenon is observed in a wide range of cell types triggered by various ER stress inducers. The magnitude of the decrease in extracellular SEAP is proportional to the intensity of ER stress, which is inversely correlated with the induction of endogenous ER stress markers. In contrast to SEAP, the activity of intracellular luciferase is not affected by ER stress. ER stress causes a decrease in SEAP activity not via transcriptional suppression but via abnormal posttranslational modification, accelerated degradation, and reduced secretion of SEAP protein. In mice constitutively producing SEAP, in vivo induction of ER stress similarly causes rapid reduction in serum SEAP activity. Using SEAP as an indicator, real-time monitoring of ER stress in living cells and animals is feasible. The ESTRAP method provides a powerful tool to investigate the pathogenesis of ER stress-associated diseases, to assess toxicity and the adverse effects of drugs, and to develop therapeutic agents for the treatment of ER stress-related disorders.
Detecting and quantitating physiological endoplasmic reticulum stress.	Unfolded protein response (UPR) is a key cellular defense mechanism associated with many human "conformational" diseases, including heart diseases, neurodegeneration, and metabolic syndrome. One of the major obstacles that have hindered our further understanding of physiological UPR and its future therapeutic potential is our inability to detect and quantitate ER stress and UPR activation under physiological and pathological conditions, where ER stress is perceivably very mild. Here, we describe a Phos-tag-based Western blot approach that allows for direct visualization and quantitative assessment of mild ER stress and UPR signaling, directly at the levels of UPR sensors, in various in vivo conditions. This method will likely pave the foundation for future studies on physiological UPR, aid in the diagnosis of ER-associated diseases, and facilitate therapeutic strategies targeting UPR in vivo.
Experimental approaches for elucidation of stress-sensing mechanisms of the IRE1 family proteins.	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, which is often regarded as the accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER, triggers cellular protective events including the unfolded protein response (UPR). In the yeast S. cerevisiae, the UPR signaling pathway starts from the ER-located transmembrane protein Ire1, the activation of which eventually leads to transcriptional induction of various genes including those encoding ER-located molecular chaperones. Mammals have two Ire1 paralogues, of which IRE1α exhibits ubiquitous tissue expression. Here, we show how we have approached study of the molecular mechanisms by which ER stress activates the Ire1 family proteins. Immunoprecipitation analyses indicated that the ER-located chaperone BiP associates with IRE1α and yeast Ire1, while ER stress dissociates these complexes. We also devised experimental systems for exogenous expression of wild-type or mutant versions of IRE1α and yeast Ire1 at appropriate levels, in order to monitor correctly their activity in evoking downstream events. An IRE1α partial deletion mutant with which BiP poorly associates showed considerable activity even under nonstress conditions, whereas a BiP-nonbinding mutant of yeast Ire1 was almost normally regulated in an ER-stress dependent manner. This finding suggests that the dissociation of BiP is the principal determinant of IRE1α's activation upon ER stress, while yeast Ire1 is largely controlled by another factor(s). Based on in vitro ability to inhibit aggregation of denatured proteins, we deduce that the luminal domain of yeast Ire1, but not that of IRE1α, is capable of direct interaction with unfolded proteins. Since this ability of yeast Ire1 was abolished by a mutation impairing its cellular activity, we propose that yeast Ire1 is fully activated by its direct interaction with unfolded proteins.
The unfolded protein response mediates adaptation to exercise in skeletal muscle through a PGC-1α/ATF6α complex.	Exercise has been shown to be effective for treating obesity and type 2 diabetes. However, the molecular mechanisms for adaptation to exercise training are not fully understood. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has been linked to metabolic dysfunction. Here we show that the unfolded protein response (UPR), an adaptive response pathway that maintains ER homeostasis upon luminal stress, is activated in skeletal muscle during exercise and adapts skeletal muscle to exercise training. The transcriptional coactivator PGC-1α, which regulates several exercise-associated aspects of skeletal muscle function, mediates the UPR in myotubes and skeletal muscle through coactivation of ATF6α. Efficient recovery from acute exercise is compromised in ATF6α(-/-) mice. Blocking ER-stress-related cell death via deletion of CHOP partially rescues the exercise intolerance phenotype in muscle-specific PGC-1α KO mice. These findings suggest that modulation of the UPR through PGC1α represents an alternative avenue to improve skeletal muscle function and achieve metabolic benefits.
The contribution of endoplasmic reticulum stress to liver diseases.	The unfolded protein response (UPR) is an evolutionarily conserved cell signaling pathway that is activated to regulate protein synthesis and restore homeostatic equilibrium when the cell is stressed from increased client protein load or the accumulation of unfolded or malfolded proteins. Once activated, this signaling pathway can either result in the recovery of homeostasis or can activate a cascade of events that ultimately result in cell death. The UPR/endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress response spectrum and its interplay with other cellular organelles play an important role in the pathogenesis of disease in secretory cells rich in ER, such as hepatocytes. Over the past 2 decades, the contribution of ER stress to various forms of liver diseases has been examined. Robust support for a contributing, as opposed to a secondary role, for ER stress response is seen in the nonalcoholic steatohepatitis, alcoholic liver disease, ischemia/reperfusion injury, and cholestatic models of liver disease. The exact direction of the cause and effect relationship between modes of cell injury and ER stress remains elusive. It is apparent that a complex interplay exists between ER stress response, conditions that promote it, and those that result from it. A vicious cycle in which ER stress promotes inflammation, cell injury, and steatosis and in which steatogenesis, inflammation, and cell injury aggravate ER stress seems to be at play. It is perhaps the nature of such a vicious cycle that is the key pathophysiologic concept. Therapeutic approaches aimed at interrupting the cycle may dampen the stress response and the ensuing injury.
Dengue virus modulates the unfolded protein response in a time-dependent manner.	Flaviviruses, such as dengue virus (DENV), depend on the host endoplasmic reticulum for translation, replication, and packaging of their genomes. Here we report that DENV-2 infection modulates the unfolded protein response in a time-dependent manner. We show that early DENV-2 infection triggers and then suppresses PERK-mediated eIF2α phosphorylation and that in mid and late DENV-2 infection, the IRE1-XBP1 and ATF6 pathways are activated, respectively. Activation of IRE1-XBP1 correlated with induction of downstream targets GRP78, CHOP, and GADD34. Furthermore, induction of CHOP did not induce apoptotic markers, such as suppression of anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2, activation of caspase-9 or caspase-3, and cleavage of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. Finally, we show that DENV-2 replication is affected in PERK(-/-) and IRE1(-/-) mouse embryo fibroblasts when compared with wild-type mouse embryo fibroblasts. These results demonstrate that time-dependent activation of the unfolded protein response by DENV-2 can override inhibition of translation, prevent apoptosis, and prolong the viral life cycle.
Coiled-coil intermediate filament stutter instability and molecular unfolding.	Intermediate filaments (IFs) are the key components of cytoskeleton in eukaryotic cells and are critical for cell mechanics. The building block of IFs is a coiled-coil alpha-helical dimer, consisting of several domains that include linkers and other structural discontinuities. One of the discontinuities in the dimer's coiled-coil region is the so-called 'stutter' region. The stutter is a region where a variation of the amino acid sequence pattern from other parts of the alpha-helical domains of the protein is found. It was suggested in earlier works that due to this sequence variation, the perfect coiled-coil arrangement ceases to exist. Here, we show using explicit water molecular dynamics and well-tempered metadynamics that for the coil2 domain of vimentin IFs the stutter is more stable in a non-alpha-helical, unfolded state. This causes a local structural disturbance in the alpha helix, which has a global effect on the nanomechanics of the structure. Our analysis suggests that the stutter features an enhanced tendency to unfolding even under the absence of external forces, implying a much greater structural instability than previously assumed. As a result it features a smaller local bending stiffness than other segments and presents a seed for the initiation of molecular bending and unfolding at large deformation.
Autophagy, microbial sensing, endoplasmic reticulum stress, and epithelial function in inflammatory bowel disease.	Increasing evidence has emerged that supports an important intersection between 3 fundamental cell biologic pathways in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease. These include the intersection between autophagy, as revealed by the original identification of ATG16L1 and IRGM as major genetic risk factors for Crohn's disease, and intracellular bacterial sensing, as shown by the importance of NOD2 in autophagy induction upon bacterial entry into the cell. A pathway closely linked to autophagy and innate immunity is the unfolded protein response, initiated by endoplasmic reticulum stress due to the accumulation of misfolded proteins, which is genetically related to ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease (XBP1 and ORMDL3). Hypomorphic ATG16L1, NOD2, and X box binding protein-1 possess the common attribute of profoundly affecting Paneth cells, specialized epithelial cells at the bottom of intestinal crypts involved in antimicrobial function. Together with their functional juxtaposition in the environmentally exposed intestinal epithelial cell, their remarkable functional convergence on Paneth cells and their behavior in response to environmental factors, including microbes, these 3 pathways are of increasing importance to understanding the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease. Moreover, in conjunction with studies that model deficient nuclear factor-κB function, these studies suggest a central role for altered intestinal epithelial cell function as one of the earliest events in the development of inflammatory bowel disease.
Mitochondrial stress: a bridge between mitochondrial dysfunction and metabolic diseases?	Under pathophysiological conditions such as obesity, excessive oxidation of nutrients may induce mitochondrial stress, leading to mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPR(mt)) and initiation of a retrograde stress signaling pathway. Defects in the UPR(mt) and the retrograde signaling pathways may disrupt the integrity and homeostasis of the mitochondria, resulting in endoplasmic reticulum stress and insulin resistance. Improving the capacity of mitochondria to reduce stress may be an effective approach to improve mitochondria function and to suppress obesity-induced metabolic disorders such as insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes.
Impeded protein folding and function in active inflammatory bowel disease.	The intestinal tract is covered by a total of 300 square metres of IECs (intestinal epithelial cells) that covers the entire intestinal mucosa. For protection against luminal xenobiotics, pathogens and commensal microbes, these IECs are equipped with membrane-bound transporters as well as the ability to secrete specific protective proteins. In patients with active IBD (inflammatory bowel disease), the expression of these proteins, e.g. ABC (ATP-binding cassette) transporters such as ABCG2 (ABC transporter G2) and defensins, is decreased, thereby limiting the protection against various luminal threats. Correct ER (endoplasmic reticulum)-dependent protein folding is essential for the localization and function of secreted and membrane-bound proteins. Inflammatory triggers, such as cytokines and nitric oxide, can impede protein folding, which causes the accumulation of unfolded proteins inside the ER. As a result, the unfolded protein response is activated which can lead to a cellular process named ER stress. The protein folding impairment affects the function and localization of several proteins, including those involved in protection against xenobiotics. In the present review, we discuss the possible inflammatory pathways affecting protein folding and eventually leading to IEC malfunction in patients with active IBD.
A novel epidermal growth factor receptor variant lacking multiple domains directly activates transcription and is overexpressed in tumors.	The epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is essential to multiple physiological and neoplastic processes via signaling by its tyrosine kinase domain and subsequent activation of transcription factors. EGFR overexpression and alteration, including point mutations and structural variants, contribute to oncogenesis in many tumor types. In this study, we identified an in-frame splice variant of the EGFR called mini-LEEK (mLEEK) that is more broadly expressed than the EGFR and is overexpressed in several cancers. Unlike previously characterized EGFR variants, mLEEK lacks the extracytoplasmic, transmembrane and tyrosine kinase domains. mLEEK localizes in the nucleus and functions as a transcription factor to regulate target genes involved in the cellular response to endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, including the master regulator of the unfolded protein response (UPR) pathways, molecular chaperone GRP78/Bip. We demonstrated that mLEEK regulates GRP78 transcription through direct interaction with a cis-regulatory element within the gene promoter. Several UPR pathways were interrogated and mLEEK expression was found to attenuate the induction of all pathways upon ER stress. Conversely, knockdown of mLEEK resulted in caspase-mediated cell death and sensitization to ER stress. These findings indicate that mLEEK levels determine cellular responses to unfavorable conditions that cause ER stress. This information, along with the overexpression of mLEEK in tumors, suggests unique strategies for therapeutic intervention. Furthermore, the identification of mLEEK expands the known mechanisms by which the EGFR gene contributes to oncogenesis and represents the first link between two previously disparate areas in cancer cell biology: EGFR signaling and the UPR.
Regulation of sphingolipid synthesis through Orm1 and Orm2 in yeast.	Sphingolipids are crucial components of membranes, and sphingolipid metabolites serve as signaling molecules. Yeast Orm1 and Orm2 belong to a conserved family of ER membrane proteins that regulate serine palmitoyltransferase, which catalyzes the first and rate-limiting step in sphingolipid synthesis. We now show that sphingolipid synthesis through Orm1 is a target of TOR signaling, which regulates cell growth in response to nutritional signals. Orm1 phosphorylation is dependent on the Tap42-phosphatase complex, which acts downstream of TOR protein kinase complex 1. In temperature-sensitive tap42-11 cells, impaired Orm1 phosphorylation occurs concomitantly with reduced sphingolipid synthesis. A second mechanism for regulating sphingolipid synthesis is through control of Orm2 protein level. The Orm2 protein level responds to ER stress conditions, increasing when cells are treated with tunicamycin or DTT, agents that induce the unfolded protein response (UPR). The sphingolipid intermediates (long chain base and ceramide) are decreased when ORM2 is overexpressed, suggesting that sphingolipid synthesis is repressed under ER stress conditions. Finally, in the absence of the Orms, the UPR is constitutively activated. Lipid dysregulation in the absence of the Orms might signal to the ER from the plasma membrane because UPR activation is dependent on a cell surface sensor and the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cell wall integrity pathway. Thus, sphingolipid synthesis and the UPR are coordinately regulated.
Why are some amyloidoses systemic? Does hepatic "chaperoning at a distance" prevent cardiac deposition in a transgenic model of human senile systemic (transthyretin) amyloidosis?	In the human systemic amyloidoses caused by mutant or wild-type transthyretin (TTR), deposition occurs at a distance from the site of synthesis. The TTR synthesized and secreted by the hepatocyte circulates in plasma, then deposits in target tissues far from the producing cell, a pattern reproduced in mice transgenic for multiple copies of the human wild-type TTR gene. By 2 yr of age, half of the transgenic males show cardiac deposition resembling human senile systemic amyloidosis. However, as early as 3 mo of age, when there are no deposits, cardiac gene transcription differs from that of nontransgenic littermates, primarily in the expression of a large number of genes associated with inflammation and the immune response. At 24 mo, the hearts with histologically proven TTR deposits show expression of stress response genes, exuberant mitochondrial gene transcription, and increased expression of genes associated with apoptosis, relative to the hearts without TTR deposition. These 24-mo-old hearts with TTR deposits also show a decrease in transcription of inflammatory genes relative to that in the younger transgenic mice. After 2 yr of expressing large amounts of human TTR, the livers of the transgenic mice without cardiac deposition display chaperone gene expression and evidence of an activated unfolded protein response, while the livers of animals with cardiac TTR deposition display neither, showing increased transcription of interferon-responsive inflammatory genes and those encoding an antioxidant response. With time, in animals with cardiac deposition, it appears that hepatic proteostatic capacity is diminished, exposing the heart to a greater load of misfolded TTR with subsequent extracellular deposition. Hence systemic (cardiac) TTR deposition may be the direct result of the diminution in the distant chaperoning capacity of the liver related to age or long-standing exposure to misfolded TTR, or both.
Sensing endoplasmic reticulum stress by protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase promotes adaptive mitochondrial DNA biogenesis and cell survival via heme oxygenase-1/carbon monoxide activity.	Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress activates the adaptive unfolded protein response, allowing cells to recover folding capacity in the organelle. However, the overwhelming response to severe damage results in apoptotic cell death. Because of the physical proximity between ER and mitochondria, a functional interrelationship between these two organelles, including mitochondrial ATP production and apoptosis, has been suggested. The adaptive response to ER stress includes the maintenance of cellular energetics, which eventually determines cell fate. We previously demonstrated that heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) activity protects cells against ER stress in a protein kinase RNA-like endoplasmic reticulum kinase (PERK)-dependent pathway. Here, we provide evidence that PERK-mediated induction of HO-1 in murine macrophages, RAW264.7, relays ER stress to mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) replication and function. ER stress induced by thapsigargin treatments (10-100 nM) resulted in a 2-fold increase in mtDNA contents compared with that in the untreated control. HO-1 activity on ER stress is proven to be critical for mitochondrial integrity because chemical inhibition (zinc protoporphyrin, 5-20 μM) and genetic depletion of HO-1 by small interference RNA transfection suppress the activation of transcription factors for mitochondrial biogenesis. Carbon monoxide (CO), an enzymatic by-product of HO-1 activity is responsible for the function of HO-1. Limited bioavailability of CO by hemoglobin treatment triggers cell death with a concomitant decline in ATP production. Approximately 78.1% of RAW264.7 cells were damaged in the presence of hemoglobin compared with the percentage of injured cells (26.9%) under ER stress alone. Mitochondrial generation of ATP levels significantly declined when CO availability was limited under prolonged ER stress. Taken together, these results suggest that the cellular HO-1/CO system conveys ER stress to cell survival signals from mitochondria via both the activation of transcriptional factors and functional integrity of mtDNA.
Redox signaling loops in the unfolded protein response.	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the first compartment of secretory pathway. It plays a major role in ER chaperone-assisted folding and quality control, including post-translational modification such as disulfide bond formation of newly synthesized secretory proteins. Protein folding and assembly takes place in the ER, where redox conditions are distinctively different from the other organelles and are favorable for disulfide formation. These reactions generate the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) as a byproduct of thiol/disulfide exchange reaction among ER oxidoreductin 1 (Ero1), protein disulfide isomerase (PDI) and ER client proteins, during the formation of disulfide bonds in nascent or incorrectly folded proteins. When uncontrolled, this phenomenon perturbs ER homeostasis, thus aggravating the accumulation of improperly folded or unfolded proteins in this compartment (ER stress). This results in the activation of an adaptive mechanism named the unfolded protein response (UPR). In mammalian cells, the UPR is mediated by three ER-resident membrane proteins (PERK, IRE1 and ATF6) and regulates the expression of the UPR target genes, which themselves encode ER chaperones, folding enzymes, pro-apoptotic proteins and antioxidants, with the objective of restoring ER homeostatic balance. In this review, we will describe redox dependent activation (ER) and amplification (cytosol) loops that control the UPR and the consequences these regulatory loops have on cell fate and physiology.
Functional asymmetries of proteasome translocase pore.	Degradation by proteasomes involves coupled translocation and unfolding of its protein substrates. Six distinct but paralogous proteasome ATPase proteins, Rpt1 to -6, form a heterohexameric ring that acts on substrates. An axially positioned loop (Ar-Φ loop) moves in concert with ATP hydrolysis, engages substrate, and propels it into a proteolytic chamber. The aromatic (Ar) residue of the Ar-Φ loop in all six Rpts of S. cerevisiae is tyrosine; this amino acid is thought to have important functional contacts with substrate. Six yeast strains were constructed and characterized in which Tyr was individually mutated to Ala. The mutant cells were viable and had distinct phenotypes. rpt3, rpt4, and rpt5 Tyr/Ala mutants, which cluster on one side of the ATPase hexamer, were substantially impaired in their capacity to degrade substrates. In contrast, rpt1, rpt2, and rpt6 mutants equaled or exceeded wild type in degradation activity. However, rpt1 and rpt6 mutants had defects that limited cell growth or viability under conditions that stressed the ubiquitin proteasome system. In contrast, the rpt3 mutant grew faster than wild type and to a smaller size, a defect that has previously been associated with misregulation of G1 cyclins. This rpt3 phenotype probably results from altered degradation of cell cycle regulatory proteins. Finally, mutation of five of the Rpt subunits increased proteasome ATPase activity, implying bidirectional coupling between the Ar-Φ loop and the ATP hydrolysis site. The present observations assign specific functions to individual Rpt proteins and provide insights into the diverse roles of the axial loops of individual proteasome ATPases.
Murine cytomegalovirus targets transcription factor ATF4 to exploit the unfolded-protein response.	The unfolded-protein response (UPR), activated by sensor molecules PERK, ATF6, and IRE1 to resolve endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress, has emerged as a key target for host cells and viruses to control the infection outcomes. The UPR regulates ER protein folding, controls cell fate upon ER stress, and plays an important role in innate immunity. We and others have shown that human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) modulates the UPR. We show here that murine CMV (MCMV), the widely used CMV model for small animal infection, regulated the UPR in a manner similar to that of HCMV. This modulatory ability was triggered by virion entry and enhanced by viral immediate-early and early gene expression. Thus, while vulnerable at early times, MCMV became resistant to exogenous ER stress at late times of infection. MCMV activated the PERK-ATF4 pathway but only induced a subset of representative ATF4 targets at levels somewhat lower than those by the ER stress inducer tunicamycin. Moreover, MCMV induced ER chaperone Bip but actively blocked IRE1-mediated Xbp1(s) protein accumulation. ATF4 depletion severely attenuated viral growth at a low multiplicity of infection by modestly reducing viral DNA synthesis and more pronouncedly inhibiting late gene transcription. Collectively, we show that the UPR is a conserved target of CMVs and identify ATF4, a key UPR component, as a factor critical for MCMV infection. This work sets the stage for using the MCMV model to explore the role of this stress response in CMV biology, particularly during infection of the host, which is difficult to study in HCMV.
New insights into translational regulation in the endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response.	Homeostasis of the protein-folding environment in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is maintained by signal transduction pathways that collectively constitute an unfolded protein response (UPR). These affect bulk protein synthesis and thereby the levels of ER stress, but also culminate in regulated expression of specific mRNAs, such as that encoding the transcription factor ATF4. Mechanisms linking eukaryotic initiation factor 2 (eIF2) phosphorylation to control of unfolded protein load in the ER were elucidated more than 10 years ago, but recent work has highlighted the diversity of processes that impinge on eIF2 activity and revealed that there are multiple mechanisms by which changes in eIF2 activity can modulate the translation of individual mRNAs. In addition, the potential for affecting this step of translation initiation pharmacologically is becoming clearer. Furthermore, it is now clear that another strand of the UPR, controlled by the endoribonuclease inositol-requiring enzyme 1 (IRE1), also affects rates of protein synthesis in stressed cells and that its effector function, mediated by the transcription factor X-box-binding protein 1 (XBP1), is subject to important mRNA-specific translational regulation. These new insights into the convergence of translational control and the UPR will be reviewed here.
Phenylbutyric acid induces the cellular senescence through an Akt/p21(WAF1) signaling pathway.	It has been well known that three sentinel proteins - PERK, ATF6 and IRE1 - initiate the unfolded protein response (UPR) in the presence of misfolded or unfolded proteins in the ER. Recent studies have demonstrated that upregulation of UPR in cancer cells is required to survive and proliferate. Here, we showed that long exposure to 4-phenylbutyric acid (PBA), a chemical chaperone that can reduce retention of unfolded and misfolded proteins in ER, induced cellular senescence in cancer cells such as MCF7 and HT1080. In addition, we found that treatment with PBA activates Akt, which results in p21(WAF1) induction. Interestingly, the depletion of PERK but not ATF6 and IRE1 also induces cellular senescence, which was rescued by additional depletion of Akt. This suggests that Akt pathway is downstream of PERK in PBA induced cellular senescence. Taken together, these results show that PBA induces cellular senescence via activation of the Akt/p21(WAF1) pathway by PERK inhibition.
The specialized unfolded protein response of B lymphocytes: ATF6α-independent development of antibody-secreting B cells.	B lymphocytes, like all mammalian cells, are equipped with the unfolded protein response (UPR), a complex signaling system allowing for both pro- and mal-adaptive responses to increased demands on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The UPR is comprised of three signaling pathways initiated by the ER transmembrane stress sensors, IRE1α/β, PERK and ATF6α/β. Activation of IRE1 yields XBP1(S), a transcription factor that directs expansion of the ER and enhances protein biosynthetic and secretory machinery. XBP1(S) is essential for the differentiation of B lymphocytes into antibody-secreting cells. In contrast, the PERK pathway, a regulator of translation and transcription, is dispensable for the generation of antibody-secreting cells. Functioning as a transcription factor, ATF6α can augment ER quality control processes and drive ER expansion, but the potential role of this UPR pathway in activated B cells has not been investigated. Here, we report studies of ATF6α-deficient B cells demonstrating that ATF6α is not required for the development of antibody-secreting cells. Thus, when B cells are stimulated to secrete antibody, a specialized UPR relies exclusively on the IRE1-XBP1 pathway to remodel the ER and expand cellular secretory capacity.
Endoplasmic reticulum: the unfolded protein response is tangled in neurodegeneration.	The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is involved in the folding and maturation of membrane-bound and secreted proteins. Disturbed homeostasis in the ER can lead to accumulation of misfolded proteins, which trigger a stress response called the unfolded protein response (UPR). In neurodegenerative diseases that are classified as tauopathies, activation of the UPR coincides with the pathogenic accumulation of the microtubule associated protein tau. Several lines of evidence indicate that UPR activation contributes to increased levels of phosphorylated tau, a prerequisite for the formation of tau aggregates. Increased understanding of the crosstalk between signaling pathways involved in protein quality control in the ER and tau phosphorylation will support the development of new therapeutic targets that promote neuronal survival.
Induction of GADD34 is necessary for dsRNA-dependent interferon-β production and participates in the control of Chikungunya virus infection.	Nucleic acid sensing by cells is a key feature of antiviral responses, which generally result in type-I Interferon production and tissue protection. However, detection of double-stranded RNAs in virus-infected cells promotes two concomitant and apparently conflicting events. The dsRNA-dependent protein kinase (PKR) phosphorylates translation initiation factor 2-alpha (eIF2α) and inhibits protein synthesis, whereas cytosolic DExD/H box RNA helicases induce expression of type I-IFN and other cytokines. We demonstrate that the phosphatase-1 cofactor, growth arrest and DNA damage-inducible protein 34 (GADD34/Ppp1r15a), an important component of the unfolded protein response (UPR), is absolutely required for type I-IFN and IL-6 production by mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) in response to dsRNA. GADD34 expression in MEFs is dependent on PKR activation, linking cytosolic microbial sensing with the ATF4 branch of the UPR. The importance of this link for anti-viral immunity is underlined by the extreme susceptibility of GADD34-deficient fibroblasts and neonate mice to Chikungunya virus infection.
Protective coupling of mitochondrial function and protein synthesis via the eIF2α kinase GCN-2.	Cells respond to defects in mitochondrial function by activating signaling pathways that restore homeostasis. The mitochondrial peptide exporter HAF-1 and the bZip transcription factor ATFS-1 represent one stress response pathway that regulates the transcription of mitochondrial chaperone genes during mitochondrial dysfunction. Here, we report that GCN-2, an eIF2α kinase that modulates cytosolic protein synthesis, functions in a complementary pathway to that of HAF-1 and ATFS-1. During mitochondrial dysfunction, GCN-2-dependent eIF2α phosphorylation is required for development as well as the lifespan extension observed in Caenorhabditis elegans. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) generated from dysfunctional mitochondria are required for GCN-2-dependent eIF2α phosphorylation but not ATFS-1 activation. Simultaneous deletion of ATFS-1 and GCN-2 compounds the developmental defects associated with mitochondrial stress, while stressed animals lacking GCN-2 display a greater dependence on ATFS-1 and stronger induction of mitochondrial chaperone genes. These findings are consistent with translational control and stress-dependent chaperone induction acting in complementary arms of the UPR(mt).
A BAX/BAK and cyclophilin D-independent intrinsic apoptosis pathway.	Most intrinsic death signals converge into the activation of pro-apoptotic BCL-2 family members BAX and BAK at the mitochondria, resulting in the release of cytochrome c and apoptosome activation. Chronic endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress leads to apoptosis through the upregulation of a subset of pro-apoptotic BH3-only proteins, activating BAX and BAK at the mitochondria. Here we provide evidence indicating that the full resistance of BAX and BAK double deficient (DKO) cells to ER stress is reverted by stimulation in combination with mild serum withdrawal. Cell death under these conditions was characterized by the appearance of classical apoptosis markers, caspase-9 activation, release of cytochrome c, and was inhibited by knocking down caspase-9, but insensitive to BCL-X(L) overexpression. Similarly, the resistance of BIM and PUMA double deficient cells to ER stress was reverted by mild serum withdrawal. Surprisingly, BAX/BAK-independent cell death did not require Cyclophilin D (CypD) expression, an important regulator of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore. Our results suggest the existence of an alternative intrinsic apoptosis pathway emerging from a cross talk between the ER and the mitochondria.
Murine but not human basophil undergoes cell-specific proteolysis of a major endoplasmic reticulum chaperone.	Basophil has been implicated in anti-parasite defense, allergy and in polarizing T(H)2 response. Mouse model has been commonly used to study basophil function although the difference between human and mouse basophils is underappreciated. As an essential chaperone for multiple Toll-like receptors and integrins in the endoplasmic reticulum, gp96 also participates in general protein homeostasis and in the ER unfolded protein response to ensure cell survival during stress. The roles of gp96 in basophil development are unknown.
Plant transducers of the endoplasmic reticulum unfolded protein response.	The unfolded protein response (UPR) activates a set of genes to overcome accumulation of unfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), a condition termed ER stress, and constitutes an essential part of ER protein quality control that ensures efficient maturation of secretory and membrane proteins in eukaryotes. Recent studies on Arabidopsis and rice identified the signaling pathway in which the ER membrane-localized ribonuclease IRE1 (inositol-requiring enzyme 1) catalyzes unconventional cytoplasmic splicing of mRNA, thereby producing the active transcription factor Arabidopsis bZIP60 (basic leucine zipper 60) and its ortholog in rice. Here we review recent findings identifying the molecular components of the plant UPR, including IRE1/bZIP60 and the membrane-bound transcription factors bZIP17 and bZIP28, and implicating its importance in several physiological phenomena such as pathogen response.
Prodigiosin activates endoplasmic reticulum stress cell death pathway in human breast carcinoma cell lines.	Prodigiosin is a bacterial tripyrrole pigment with potent cytotoxicity against diverse human cancer cell lines. Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress is initiated by accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins in the ER lumen and may induce cell death when irremediable. In this study, the role of ER stress in prodigiosin-induced cytotoxicity was elucidated for the first time. Comparable to the ER stress inducer thapsigargin, prodigiosin up-regulated signature ER stress markers GRP78 and CHOP in addition to activating the IRE1, PERK and ATF6 branches of the unfolded protein response (UPR) in multiple human breast carcinoma cell lines, confirming prodigiosin as an ER stress inducer. Prodigiosin transcriptionally up-regulated CHOP, as evidenced by its promoting effect on the CHOP promoter activity. Of note, knockdown of CHOP effectively lowered prodigiosin's capacity to evoke PARP cleavage, reduce cell viability and suppress colony formation, highlighting an essential role of CHOP in prodigiosin-induced cytotoxic ER stress response. In addition, prodigiosin down-regulated BCL2 in a CHOP-dependent manner. Importantly, restoration of BCL2 expression blocked prodigiosin-induced PARP cleavage and greatly enhanced the survival of prodigiosin-treated cells, suggesting that CHOP-dependent BCL2 suppression mediates prodigiosin-elicited cell death. Moreover, pharmacological inhibition of JNK by SP600125 or dominant-negative blockade of PERK-mediated eIF2α phosphorylation impaired prodigiosin-induced CHOP up-regulation and PARP cleavage. Collectively, these results identified ER stress-mediated cell death as a mode-of-action of prodigiosin's tumoricidal effect. Mechanistically, prodigiosin engages the IRE1-JNK and PERK-eIF2α branches of the UPR signaling to up-regulate CHOP, which in turn mediates BCL2 suppression to induce cell death.
PERK is required in the adult pancreas and is essential for maintenance of glucose homeostasis.	Germ line PERK mutations are associated with diabetes mellitus and growth retardation in both rodents and humans. In contrast, late embryonic excision of PERK permits islet development and was found to prevent onset of diabetes, suggesting that PERK may be dispensable in the adult pancreas. To definitively establish the functional role of PERK in adult pancreata, we generated mice harboring a conditional PERK allele in which excision is regulated by tamoxifen administration. Deletion of PERK in either young adult or mature adult mice resulted in hyperglycemia associated with loss of islet and β cell architecture. PERK excision triggered intracellular accumulation of proinsulin and Glut2, massive endoplasmic reticulum (ER) expansion, and compensatory activation of the remaining unfolded-protein response (UPR) signaling pathways specifically in pancreatic tissue. Although PERK excision increased β cell death, this was not a result of decreased proliferation as previously reported. In contrast, a significant and specific increase in β cell proliferation was observed, a result reflecting increased cyclin D1 accumulation. This work demonstrates that contrary to expectations, PERK is required for secretory homeostasis and β cell survival in adult mice.
Interaction between glycated serum albumin and AGE-receptors depends on structural changes and the glycation reagent.	Physiologically relevant reactive carbonyl compounds vary greatly in their glycation reactivity and the resulting advanced glycation endproducts (AGE) are likely to have distinct structural and biological properties. We characterized a panel of twenty AGE-BSA preparations in terms of (i) their biophysical properties, (ii) their binding to the receptor for advanced glycation endproducts (RAGE) and galectin-3, and (iii) their effects on cellular proliferation. We could establish correlations between lysine glycation and changes in secondary structure. Circular dichroism and differential scanning calorimetry experiments showed that glycation causes albumin to adopt folding properties of a molten globule. Binding studies between AGE-albumin and RAGE or galectin-3 indicate that binding to the isolated receptor domains was weak. Only AGE compounds derived by glycation with ribose were able to bind tightly (K(d) < 10 μM) to both AGE receptors. Cell based assays using an engineered melanoma cell line demonstrated correlations between the extent of (i) lysine side chain modification, (ii) β-sheet content and (iii) albumin multimerization with stimulation of cell proliferation. However, in addition to structural properties of the protein, the chemical structures of the AGE-modifications were important for receptor binding and biological activity as well.
ER stress-mediated autophagy promotes Myc-dependent transformation and tumor growth.	The proto-oncogene c-Myc paradoxically activates both proliferation and apoptosis. In the pathogenic state, c-Myc-induced apoptosis is bypassed via a critical, yet poorly understood escape mechanism that promotes cellular transformation and tumorigenesis. The accumulation of unfolded proteins in the ER initiates a cellular stress program termed the unfolded protein response (UPR) to support cell survival. Analysis of spontaneous mouse and human lymphomas demonstrated significantly higher levels of UPR activation compared with normal tissues. Using multiple genetic models, we demonstrated that c-Myc and N-Myc activated the PERK/eIF2α/ATF4 arm of the UPR, leading to increased cell survival via the induction of cytoprotective autophagy. Inhibition of PERK significantly reduced Myc-induced autophagy, colony formation, and tumor formation. Moreover, pharmacologic or genetic inhibition of autophagy resulted in increased Myc-dependent apoptosis. Mechanistically, we demonstrated an important link between Myc-dependent increases in protein synthesis and UPR activation. Specifically, by employing a mouse minute (L24+/-) mutant, which resulted in wild-type levels of protein synthesis and attenuation of Myc-induced lymphomagenesis, we showed that Myc-induced UPR activation was reversed. Our findings establish a role for UPR as an enhancer of c-Myc-induced transformation and suggest that UPR inhibition may be particularly effective against malignancies characterized by c-Myc overexpression.
Dysferlin-peptides reallocate mutated dysferlin thereby restoring function.	Mutations in the dysferlin gene cause the most frequent adult-onset limb girdle muscular dystrophy, LGMD2B. There is no therapy. Dysferlin is a membrane protein comprised of seven, beta-sheet enriched, C2 domains and is involved in Ca(2+)dependent sarcolemmal repair after minute wounding. On the protein level, point mutations in DYSF lead to misfolding, aggregation within the endoplasmic reticulum, and amyloidogenesis. We aimed to restore functionality by relocating mutant dysferlin. Therefore, we designed short peptides derived from dysferlin itself and labeled them to the cell penetrating peptide TAT. By tracking fluorescently labeled short peptides we show that these dysferlin-peptides localize in the endoplasmic reticulum. There, they are capable of reducing unfolded protein response stress. We demonstrate that the mutant dysferlin regains function in membrane repair in primary human myotubes derived from patients' myoblasts by the laser wounding assay and a novel technique to investigate membrane repair: the interventional atomic force microscopy. Mutant dysferlin abuts to the sarcolemma after peptide treatment. The peptide-mediated approach has not been taken before in the field of muscular dystrophies. Our results could redirect treatment efforts for this condition.
Hepatitis C virus and cellular stress response: implications to molecular pathogenesis of liver diseases.	Infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a leading risk factor for chronic liver disease progression, including steatosis, cirrhosis, and hepatocellular carcinoma. With approximately 3% of the human population infected worldwide, HCV infection remains a global public health challenge. The efficacy of current therapy is still limited in many patients infected with HCV, thus a greater understanding of pathogenesis in HCV infection is desperately needed. Emerging lines of evidence indicate that HCV triggers a wide range of cellular stress responses, including cell cycle arrest, apoptosis, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress/unfolded protein response (UPR), and autophagy. Also, recent studies suggest that these HCV-induced cellular responses may contribute to chronic liver diseases by modulating cell proliferation, altering lipid metabolism, and potentiating oncogenic pathways. However, the molecular mechanism underlying HCV infection in the pathogenesis of chronic liver diseases still remains to be determined. Here, we review the known stress response activation in HCV infection in vitro and in vivo, and also explore the possible relationship of a variety of cellular responses with the pathogenicity of HCV-associated diseases. Comprehensive knowledge of HCV-mediated disease progression shall shed new insights into the discovery of novel therapeutic targets and the development of new intervention strategy.
Proteomic analysis reveals that pardaxin triggers apoptotic signaling pathways in human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells: cross talk among the UPR, c-Jun and ROS.	Pardaxin, an antimicrobial peptide secreted by the Red Sea flatfish Pardachirus marmoratus, inhibits proliferation and induces apoptosis of human cancer cell lines. However, the underlying molecular mechanisms are only partially understood at present. In this study, we used proteomic approaches and network reconstruction to clarify the mechanism of pardaxin-induced apoptosis in human cervical carcinoma HeLa cells. We identified that pardaxin-regulated proteins predominantly function in the unfolded protein response, oxidative stress and cytoskeletal distribution. Molecular examination of signal transduction and cellular localization demonstrated that the activator protein-1 transcription factor was activated, which eventually caused apoptosis via both caspase- and apoptosis-inducing factor-dependent pathways. Scavenging of reactive oxygen species (ROS) alleviated c-Jun activation, and small interfering RNA knockdown of c-Jun abrogated pardaxin-induced caspase activation and cell death, thereby implicating ROS and c-Jun in pardaxin-induced apoptosis signaling. In summary, this study provides the first protein-interacting network maps and novel insights into the biological responses and potential toxicity of pardaxin. 
Acute infection of mice with Clostridium difficile leads to eIF2α phosphorylation and pro-survival signalling as part of the mucosal inflammatory response.	The current study sought to delineate the gene expression profile of the host response in the caecum and colon during acute infection with Clostridium difficile in a mouse model of infection, and to investigate the nature of the unfolded protein response in this process. The infected mice displayed a significant up-regulation in the expression of chemokines (Cxcl1, Cxcl2 and Ccl2), numerous pro-inflammatory cytokines (Ifng, Il1b, Il6, and Il17f), as well as Il22 and a number of anti-microbial peptides (Defa1, Defa28, Defb1, Slpi and Reg3g) at the site(s) of infection. This was accompanied by a significant influx of neutrophils, dendritic cells, cells of the monocyte/macrophage lineage and all major subsets of lymphocytes to these site(s). However, CD4 T cells of the untreated and C. difficile-infected mice expressed similar levels of CD69 and CD25. Neither tissue had up-regulated levels of Tbx21, Gata3 or Rorc. The caeca and colons of the infected mice showed a significant increase in eukaryotic initiation factor 2α (eIF2α) phosphorylation, but neither the splicing of Xbp1 nor the up-regulation of endoplasmic reticulum chaperones, casting doubt on the full-fledged induction of the unfolded protein response by C. difficile. They also displayed significantly higher phosphorylation of AKT and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3), an indication of pro-survival signalling. These data underscore the local, innate, pro-inflammatory nature of the response to C. difficile and highlight eIF2α phosphorylation and the interleukin-22-pSTAT3-RegIIIγ axis as two of the pathways that could be used to contain and counteract the damage inflicted on the intestinal epithelium. 
Sterol metabolism regulates neuroserpin polymer degradation in the absence of the unfolded protein response in the dementia FENIB.	Mutants of neuroserpin are retained as polymers within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) of neurones to cause the autosomal dominant dementia familial encephalopathy with neuroserpin inclusion bodies or FENIB. The cellular consequences are unusual in that the ordered polymers activate the ER overload response (EOR) in the absence of the canonical unfolded protein response. We use both cell lines and Drosophila models to show that the G392E mutant of neuroserpin that forms polymers is degraded by UBE2j1 E2 ligase and Hrd1 E3 ligase while truncated neuroserpin, a protein that lacks 132 amino acids, is degraded by UBE2g2 (E2) and gp78 (E3) ligases. The degradation of G392E neuroserpin results from SREBP-dependent activation of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway in cells that express polymers of neuroserpin (G392E). Inhibition of HMGCoA reductase, the limiting enzyme of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway, reduced the ubiquitination of G392E neuroserpin in our cell lines and increased the retention of neuroserpin polymers in both HeLa cells and primary neurones. Our data reveal a reciprocal relationship between cholesterol biosynthesis and the clearance of mutant neuroserpin. This represents the first description of a link between sterol metabolism and modulation of the proteotoxicity mediated by the EOR. 
The autophagy associated gene, ULK1, promotes tolerance to chronic and acute hypoxia.	Tumor hypoxia is associated with therapy resistance and malignancy. Previously we demonstrated that activation of autophagy and the unfolded protein response (UPR) promote hypoxia tolerance. Here we explored the importance of ULK1 in hypoxia tolerance, autophagy induction and its prognostic value for recurrence after treatment.
The PERK/ATF4/LAMP3-arm of the unfolded protein response affects radioresistance by interfering with the DNA damage response.	Lysosome-associated membrane protein 3 (LAMP3) is induced by the PKR-like ER kinase (PERK)/activating transcription factor 4 (ATF4)-arm of the unfolded protein response (UPR) during hypoxia. LAMP3 has prognostic value in breast cancer patients treated with radiotherapy. Here, we specifically investigated the role of the PERK/ATF4/LAMP3-arm in the radiation response of breast cancer cells.
Inclusion body myositis: from immunopathology and degenerative mechanisms to treatment perspectives.	Inclusion body myositis is the most common inflammatory myopathy above the age of 50. It becomes clinically apparent around the fourth decade and leads to a slowly, but relentlessly progressive decline in muscular wasting and weakness. The pathology consists of a complex network of inflammatory and degenerative mechanisms, which lead to an attack of muscle fibers by auto-reactive T cells and possibly antibodies. At the same time, various aberrant proteins accumulate within the muscle fibers, including β-amyloid, tau and α-synuclein. Several key components of proinflammatory cell stress mechanisms such as nitric oxide production and macroautophagic processing contribute to the muscle fiber damage. So far, none of the anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory treatment efforts have been able to halt the disease progression and help the patients. In this summary, the current concept of the complex disease pathology of IBM is reviewed with a focus on recent findings as well as future treatment perspectives. 
Endoplasmic reticulum stress and angiogenesis]	The endoplasmic reticulum is a dynamic intracellular organelle with exquisite sensitivity to alterations in homeostasis, and provides stringent quality control systems to ensure that the only correctly folded proteins transit to the Golgi and unfolded or misfolded proteins are retained and ultimately degraded. The endoplasmic reticulum stress represents the unfolded protein response to cope with the accumulation of unfolded or misfolded proteins and is required to maintain the functional integrity of the endoplasmic reticulum. The endoplasmic reticulum stress is a fundamental phenomenon which provides a secure protection of the cells from different factors. This stress provides a wide spectrum of physiological roles in diverse developmental and metabolic processes, especially for professional secretory cells with high-level secretory protein synthesis, such as pancreatic beta cells, hepatocytes and osteoblasts and is required throughout the entire life. The endoplasmic reticulum stress and hypoxia are the obligate components of malignant tumor growth, are interconnected and activate angiogenesis via growth and metabolism control. The endoplasmic reticulum stress is mediated by three by three sensor and signaling pathways (PERK, ATF6 and ERN1), besides that blockade one (ERN1) leads to a decrease of tumor growth through suppression of angiogenesis and proliferation. The data concerning the interaction of signaling enzyme ERN1 and pro- and anti-angiogenic gene expressions is analyzed.
Hydroxytyrosol attenuates tunicamycin-induced endoplasmic reticulum stress in human hepatocarcinoma cells.	Hydroxytyrosol (HT) is a phenolic compound peculiarly abundant in olives and it is being recognized as a protector of LDL from oxidation. In addition to lipid oxidation, one emerging risk factor for cardiovascular disease is ER stress. We tested the effect of HT on the modulation of ER stress in HepG2 cells.
Activated ERBB2/HER2 licenses sensitivity to apoptosis upon endoplasmic reticulum stress through a PERK-dependent pathway.	HER2/Neu/ERBB2 is a receptor tyrosine kinase overexpressed in approximately 20% of human breast tumors. Truncated or mutant isoforms that show increased oncogenicity compared with the wild-type receptor are found in many breast tumors. Here, we report that constitutively active ERBB2 sensitizes human breast epithelial cells to agents that induce endoplasmic reticulum stress, altering the unfolded protein response (UPR) of these cells. Deregulation of the ERK, AKT, and mTOR activities elicited by mutant ERBB2 was involved in mediating this differential UPR response, elevating the response to endoplasmic reticulum stress, and apoptotic cell death. Mechanistic investigations revealed that the increased sensitivity of mutant ERBB2-expressing cells to endoplasmic reticulum stress relied upon a UPR effector signaling involving the PERK-ATF4-CHOP pathway, upregulation of the proapoptotic cell surface receptor TRAIL-R2, and activation of proapoptotic caspase-8. Collectively, our results offer a rationale for the therapeutic exploration of treatments inducing endoplasmic reticulum stress against mutant ERBB2-expressing breast tumor cells.
Modulation of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress-induced autophagy by C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) and inositol-requiring enzyme 1α (IRE1α) in human colon cancer cells.	To explore the relationship between UPR and autophagy in intestinal epithelial cells, we investigated whether autophagy was induced by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress in colon cancer cell lines. We demonstrated that autophagy was induced by ER stress in HT29, SW480, and Caco-2 cells. In these cells, inositol-requiring enzyme1α (IRE1α) and C/EBP homologous protein (CHOP) were involved in the ER stress-autophagy pathway, and CHOP was a regulator of IRE1α protein expression. Our findings suggest that CHOP promotes IRE1α and autophagy especially in ER stress conditions. This study will provide important insights into the disclosure of the ER stress-autophagy pathway. 
Gaucher disease: haematological presentations and complications.	Gaucher disease (GD) is an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disease, caused by deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase, required for the degradation of glycosphingolipids. Clinical manifestations include hepatosplenomegaly, thrombocytopenia, bone disease and a bleeding diathesis, frequently resulting in presentation to haematologists. Historically managed by splenectomy, transfusions and orthopaedic surgery, the development of specific therapy in the form of intravenous enzyme replacement therapy in the 1990s has resulted in dramatic improvements in haematological and visceral disease. Recognition of complications, including multiple myeloma and Parkinson disease, has challenged the traditional macrophage-centric view of the pathophysiology of this disorder. The pathways by which enzyme deficiency results in the clinical manifestations of this disorder are poorly understood; altered inflammatory cytokine profiles, bioactive sphingolipid derivatives and alterations in the bone marrow microenvironment have been implicated. Further elucidating these pathways will serve to advance our understanding not only of GD, but of associated disorders. 
Sugarcoating ER Stress.	The hexosamine biosynthetic pathway (HBP) generates metabolites for protein N- and O-glycosylation. Wang et al. and Denzel et al. report a hitherto unknown link between the HBP and stress in the endoplasmic reticulum. These studies establish the HBP as a critical component of the cellular machinery of protein homeostasis.
Spliced X-box binding protein 1 couples the unfolded protein response to hexosamine biosynthetic pathway.	The hexosamine biosynthetic pathway (HBP) generates uridine diphosphate N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) for glycan synthesis and O-linked GlcNAc (O-GlcNAc) protein modifications. Despite the established role of the HBP in metabolism and multiple diseases, regulation of the HBP remains largely undefined. Here, we show that spliced X-box binding protein 1 (Xbp1s), the most conserved signal transducer of the unfolded protein response (UPR), is a direct transcriptional activator of the HBP. We demonstrate that the UPR triggers HBP activation via Xbp1s-dependent transcription of genes coding for key, rate-limiting enzymes. We further establish that this previously unrecognized UPR-HBP axis is triggered in a variety of stress conditions. Finally, we demonstrate a physiologic role for the UPR-HBP axis by showing that acute stimulation of Xbp1s in heart by ischemia/reperfusion confers robust cardioprotection in part through induction of the HBP. Collectively, these studies reveal that Xbp1s couples the UPR to the HBP to protect cells under stress.
Endoplasmic reticulum stress-activated transcription factor ATF6α requires the disulfide isomerase PDIA5 to modulate chemoresistance.	ATF6α, a membrane-anchored transcription factor from the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) that modulates the cellular response to stress as an effector of the unfolded-protein response (UPR), is a key player in the development of tumors of different origin. ATF6α activation has been linked to oncogenic transformation and tumor maintenance; however, the mechanism(s) underlying this phenomenon remains elusive. Here, using a phenotypic small interfering RNA (siRNA) screening, we identified a novel role for ATF6α in chemoresistance and defined the protein disulfide isomerase A5 (PDIA5) as necessary for ATF6α activation upon ER stress. PDIA5 contributed to disulfide bond rearrangement in ATF6α under stress conditions, thereby leading to ATF6α export from the ER and activation of its target genes. Further analysis of the mechanism demonstrated that PDIA5 promotes ATF6α packaging into coat protein complex II (COPII) vesicles and that the PDIA5/ATF6α activation loop is essential to confer chemoresistance on cancer cells. Genetic and pharmacological inhibition of the PDIA5/ATF6α axis restored sensitivity to the drug treatment. This work defines the mechanisms underlying the role of ATF6α activation in carcinogenesis and chemoresistance; furthermore, it identifies PDIA5 as a key regulator ATF6α-mediated cellular functions in cancer. 
The Caenorhabditis elegans HP1 family protein HPL-2 maintains ER homeostasis through the UPR and hormesis.	Cellular adaptation to environmental changes and stress relies on a wide range of regulatory mechanisms that are tightly controlled at several levels, including transcription. Chromatin structure and chromatin binding proteins are important factors contributing to the transcriptional response to stress. However, it remains largely unknown to what extent specific chromatin factors influence the response to distinct forms of stress in a developmental context. One of the best characterized stress response pathways is the unfolded protein response (UPR), which is activated by accumulation of misfolded proteins in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here, we show that Caenorhabditis elegans heterochromatin protein like-2 (HPL-2), the homolog of heterochromatin protein 1 (HP1), down-regulates the UPR in the intestine. Inactivation of HPL-2 results in an enhanced resistance to ER stress dependent on the X-box binding protein 1 (XBP-1)/inositol requiring enzyme 1 branch of the UPR and the closely related process of autophagy. Increased resistance to ER stress in animals lacking HPL-2 is associated with increased basal levels of XBP-1 activation and ER chaperone expression under physiological conditions, which may in turn activate an adaptive response known as ER hormesis. HPL-2 expression in intestinal cells is sufficient to rescue stress resistance, whereas expression in neuronal cells negatively influenced the ER stress response through a cell-nonautonomous mechanism. We further show that the retinoblastoma protein homolog LIN-35 and the LIN-13 zinc finger protein act in the same pathway as HPL-2 to limit the ER stress response. Altogether, our results point to multiple functions for HP1 in different cell types to maintain ER homeostasis. 
MANF is indispensable for the proliferation and survival of pancreatic β cells.	All forms of diabetes mellitus (DM) are characterized by the loss of functional pancreatic β cell mass, leading to insufficient insulin secretion. Thus, identification of novel approaches to protect and restore β cells is essential for the development of DM therapies. Mesencephalic astrocyte-derived neurotrophic factor (MANF) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-stress-inducible protein, but its physiological role in mammals has remained obscure. We generated MANF-deficient mice that strikingly develop severe diabetes due to progressive postnatal reduction of β cell mass, caused by decreased proliferation and increased apoptosis. Additionally, we show that lack of MANF in vivo in mouse leads to chronic unfolded protein response (UPR) activation in pancreatic islets. Importantly, MANF protein enhanced β cell proliferation in vitro and overexpression of MANF in the pancreas of diabetic mice enhanced β cell regeneration. We demonstrate that MANF specifically promotes β cell proliferation and survival, thereby constituting a therapeutic candidate for β cell protection and regeneration.
