Spectroscopic studies of D-alpha-tocopherol concentration-induced transformation in egg phosphatidylcholine vesicles.	The effects of embedding up to 60 mol% of alpha-tocopherol (alpha-Toc) on the morphology and structure of the egg phosphatidylcholine (PC) membrane were studied using spectroscopic techniques. The resulting vesicles were subjected to turbidometric and dynamic light scattering measurements to evaluate their size distribution. The alpha-Toc intrinsic fluorescence and its quenching was used to estimate the tocopherol position in the membrane. Optical microscopy was used to visualize morphological changes in the vesicles during the inclusion of tocopherol into the 2 mg/ml PC membrane. The incorporation of up to 15 mol% of tocopherol molecules into PC vesicles is accompanied by a linear increase in the fluorescence intensity and the simultaneous formation of larger, multilamellar vesicles. Increasing the tocopherol concentration above 20 mol% induced structural and morphological changes leading to the disappearance of micrometer-sized vesicles and the formation of small unilamellar vesicles of size ranging from 30 to 120 nm, mixed micelles and non-lamellar structures.
The major allergen from birch tree pollen, Bet v 1, binds and permeabilizes membranes.	The 159 residue Bet v 1 is the major allergen from birch tree pollen. Its natural function is unknown although it is capable of binding several types of physiologically relevant ligands in a centrally placed cavity in the protein structure. Here we use circular dichroism and fluorescence spectroscopy to show that Bet v 1 binds to DOPC and DOPG phospholipid vesicles in a pH-dependent manner. Binding is facilitated by low pH, negatively charged phospholipids, and high vesicle curvature, indicating that electrostatic interactions and vesicle surface defects are important parameters for binding. Binding is accompanied by major structural rearrangements, involving an increase in alpha-helical structure and a decrease in beta-structure. A bilayer structure per se is not a prerequisite for these rearrangements, since they also occur in the presence of the micelle-forming lysophospholipids lysoMPC and lysoMPG. Two major bound states (A and B) with distinct secondary structure compositions were identified, which predominate in the pH ranges approximately 9.5-6.5 and approximately 5-2.5, respectively. Despite the high content of secondary structure, the A- and B-states are partially unfolded as they unfold noncooperatively in CD thermal scans, in contrast to the native state. In addition, the B-state (but not the A-state) shows intermediate proteolysis-resistance and is able to induce complete leakage of calcein from the vesicles, indicating that this state is partially inserted into and significantly perturbs the bilayer structure. We conclude that Bet v 1 is a membrane binding protein, highlighting a possible biological function of this protein.
Action mechanism of tachyplesin I and effects of PEGylation.	PEGylation of protein and peptide drugs is frequently used to improve in vivo efficacy. We investigated the action mechanism of tachyplesin I, a membrane-acting cyclic antimicrobial peptide from Tachypleus tridentatus and the effects of PEGylation on the mechanism. The PEGylated peptide induced the leakage of calcein from egg yolk L-alpha-phosphatidylglycerol/egg yolk L-alpha-phosphatidylcholine large unilamellar vesicles similarly to the parent peptide. Both peptides induced lipid flip-flop coupled to leakage and was translocated into the inner leaflet of the bilayer, indicating that tachyplesin I forms a toroidal pore and that PEGylation did not alter the basic mechanism of membrane permeabilization of the parent peptide. Despite their similar activities against model membranes, the peptides showed very different biological activities. The cytotoxicity of tachyplesin I was greatly reduced by PEGylation, although the antimicrobial activity was significantly weakened. We investigated the enhancement of the permeability of inner membranes induced by the peptides. Our results suggested that outer membranes and peptidoglycan layers play an inhibitory role in the permeation of the PEG moiety. Furthermore, a reduction in DNA binding by PEGylation may also contribute to the weak activity of the PEGylated peptide.
A simple method for the reconstitution of membrane proteins into giant unilamellar vesicles.	A simple method for the reconstitution of membrane protein from submicron proteoliposomes into giant unilamellar vesicles (GUVs) is presented here: This method does not require detergents, fusion peptides or a dehydration step of the membrane protein solution. In a first step, GUVs of lipids were formed by electroformation, purified and concentrated; and in a second step, the concentrated GUV solution was added to a small volume of vesicles or proteoliposomes. Material transfer from submicron vesicles and proteoliposomes to GUVs occurred spontaneously and was characterized with fluorescent microscopy and patch-clamp recordings. As a functional test, the voltage-dependent, anion-selective channel protein was reconstituted into GUVs, and its electrophysiological activity was monitored with the patch clamp. This method is versatile since it is independent of the presence of the protein, as demonstrated by the fusion of fluorescently labeled submicron vesicles and proteoliposomes with GUVs.
Biphasic effects of insulin on islet amyloid polypeptide membrane disruption.	Type II diabetes, in its late stages, is often associated with the formation of extracellular islet amyloid deposits composed of islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP or amylin). IAPP is stored before secretion at millimolar concentrations within secretory granules inside the β-cells. Of interest, at these same concentrations in vitro, IAPP rapidly aggregates and forms fibrils, yet within secretory granules of healthy individuals, IAPP does not fibrillize. Insulin is also stored within the secretory granules before secretion, and has been shown in vitro to inhibit IAPP fibril formation. Because of insulin's inhibitory effect on IAPP fibrillization, it has been suggested that insulin may also inhibit IAPP-mediated permeabilization of the β-cell plasma membrane in vivo. We show that although insulin is effective at preventing fiber-dependent membrane disruption, it is not effective at stopping the initial phase of membrane disruption before fibrillogenesis, and does not prevent the formation of small IAPP oligomers on the membrane. These results suggest that insulin has a more complicated role in inhibiting IAPP fibrillogenesis, and that other factors, such as the low pH of the secretory granule, may also play a role.
Vesicle deformation and poration under strong dc electric fields.	When subject to applied electric pulses, a lipid membrane exhibits complex responses including electrodeformation and electroporation. In this work, the electrodeformation of giant unilamellar vesicles under strong dc electric fields was investigated. Specifically, the degree of deformation was quantified as a function of the applied field strength and the electrical conductivity ratio of the fluids inside and outside of the vesicles. The vesicles were made from L-α-phosphatidylcholine with diameters ranging from 14 to 30 μm. Experiments were performed with field strengths ranging from 0.9 to 2.0 kV/cm, and intra-to-extra-vesicular conductivity ratios varying between 1.92 and 53.0. With these parametric configurations, the vesicles exhibited prolate elongations along the direction of the electric field. The degree of deformation was, in general, significant. In some cases, the aspect ratio of a deformed vesicle exceeded 10, representing a strong-deformation regime previously not explored. The aspect ratio scaled quadratically with the field strength, and increased asymptotically to a maximum value at high conductivity ratios. Appreciable area and volumetric changes were observed both during and after pulsation, indicating the concurrence of electroporation. A theoretical model is developed to predict these large deformations in the strongly permeabilized limit, and the results are compared with the experimental data. Both agreements and discrepancies are found, and the model limitations and possible extensions are discussed.
Preparation, characterization, and surface immobilization of native vesicles obtained by mechanical extrusion of mammalian cells.	Native vesicles or "reduced protocells" derived by mechanical extrusion concentrate selected plasma membrane components, while downsizing complexities of whole cells. We illustrate this technique, characterize the physical-chemical properties of these reduced configurations of whole cells, and demonstrate their surface immobilization and patternability. This simple detergent-free vesicularized membrane preparation should prove useful in fundamental studies of cellular membranes, and may provide a means to engineer therapeutic cells and enable high-throughput devices containing near-native, functional proteolipidic assemblies.
Aggregation modulators interfere with membrane interactions of β2-microglobulin fibrils.	Amyloid fibril accumulation is a pathological hallmark of several devastating disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, prion diseases, type II diabetes, and others. Although the molecular factors responsible for amyloid pathologies have not been deciphered, interactions of misfolded proteins with cell membranes appear to play important roles in these disorders. Despite increasing evidence for the involvement of membranes in amyloid-mediated cytotoxicity, the pursuit for therapeutic strategies has focused on preventing self-assembly of the proteins comprising the amyloid plaques. Here we present an investigation of the impact of fibrillation modulators upon membrane interactions of β2-microglobulin (β2m) fibrils. The experiments reveal that polyphenols (epigallocatechin gallate, bromophenol blue, and resveratrol) and glycosaminoglycans (heparin and heparin disaccharide) differentially affect membrane interactions of β2m fibrils measured by dye-release experiments, fluorescence anisotropy of labeled lipid, and confocal and cryo-electron microscopies. Interestingly, whereas epigallocatechin gallate and heparin prevent membrane damage as judged by these assays, the other compounds tested had little, or no, effect. The results suggest a new dimension to the biological impact of fibrillation modulators that involves interference with membrane interactions of amyloid species, adding to contemporary strategies for combating amyloid diseases that focus on disruption or remodeling of amyloid aggregates.
A proline-hinge alters the characteristics of the amphipathic α-helical AMPs.	HP (2-20) is a 19-aa, amphipathic, α-helical peptide with antimicrobial properties that was derived from the N-terminus of Helicobacter pylori ribosomal protein L1. We previously showed that increasing the net hydrophobicity of HP (2-20) by substituting Trp for Gln(17) and Asp(19) (Anal 3) increased the peptide's antimicrobial activity. In hydrophobic medium, Anal 3 forms an amphipathic structure consisting of an N-terminal random coil region (residues 2-5) and an extended helical region (residues 6-20). To investigate the structure-activity relationship of Anal 3, we substituted Pro for Glu(9) (Anal 3-Pro) and then examined the new peptide's three-dimensional structure, antimicrobial activity and mechanism of action. Anal 3-Pro had an α-helical structure in the presence of trifluoroethanol (TFE) and sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS). NMR spectroscopic analysis of Anal 3-Pro's tertiary structure in SDS micelles confirmed that the kink potential introduced by Pro(10) was responsible for the helix distortion. We also found that Anal 3-Pro exhibited about 4 times greater antimicrobial activity than Anal 3. Fluorescence activated flow cytometry and confocal fluorescence microscopy showed that incorporating a Pro-hinge into Anal 3 markedly reduced its membrane permeability so that it accumulated in the cytoplasm without remaining in the cell membrane. To investigate the translocation mechanism, we assessed its ability to release of FITC-dextran. The result showed Anal 3-Pro created a pore <1.8 nm in diameter, which is similar to buforin II. Notably, scanning electron microscopic observation of Candida albicans revealed that Anal 3-Pro and buforin II exert similar effects on cell membranes, whereas magainin 2 exerts a different, more damaging, effect. In addition, Anal 3-Pro assumed a helix-hinge-helix structure in the presence of biological membranes and formed micropores in both bacterial and fungal membranes, through which it entered the cytoplasm and tightly bound to DNA. These results indicate that the bending region of Anal 3- Pro peptide is prerequisite for effective antibiotic activity and may facilitate easy penetration of the lipid bilayers of the cell membrane. 
Membrane lipid modifications and therapeutic effects mediated by hydroxydocosahexaenoic acid on Alzheimer's disease.	Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative pathology with relevant unmet therapeutic needs. Both natural aging and AD have been associated with a significant decline in the omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), and accordingly, administration of DHA has been proposed as a possible treatment for this pathology. However, recent clinical trials in mild-to-moderately affected patients have been inconclusive regarding the real efficacy of DHA in halting this disease. Here, we show that the novel hydroxyl-derivative of DHA (2-hydroxydocosahexaenoic acid - OHDHA) has a strong therapeutic potential to treat AD. We demonstrate that OHDHA administration increases DHA levels in the brain of a transgenic mouse model of AD (5xFAD), as well as those of phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) species that carry long polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs). In 5xFAD mice, administration of OHDHA induced lipid modifications that were paralleled with a reduction in amyloid-β (Αβ) accumulation and full recovery of cognitive scores. OHDHA administration also reduced Aβ levels in cellular models of AD, in association with alterations in the subcellular distribution of secretases and reduced Aβ-induced tau protein phosphorylation as well. Furthermore, OHDHA enhanced the survival of neuron-like differentiated cells exposed to different insults, such as oligomeric Aβ and NMDA-mediated neurotoxicity. These results were supported by model membrane studies in which incorporation of OHDHA into lipid-raft-like vesicles was shown to reduce the binding affinity of oligomeric and fibrillar Aβ to membranes. Finally, the OHDHA concentrations used here did not produce relevant toxicity in zebrafish embryos in vivo. In conclusion, we demonstrate the pleitropic effects of OHDHA that might prove beneficial to treat AD, which suggests that an upstream event, probably the modulation of the membrane lipid composition and structure, influences cellular homeostasis reversing the neurodegenerative process. This Article is Part of a Special Issue Entitled: Membrane Structure and Function: Relevance in the Cell's Physiology, Pathology and Therapy. 
