Grants to states for construction or acquisition of state home facilities--VA. Final regulations.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is amending its medical care regulations, Grants to States for Construction or Acquisition of State Home Facilities (38 CFR part 17), to implement section 206 of the Veterans' Benefits and Services Act of 1988 enacted on May 20, 1988. This section changes from July 1 to August 15, the date on which VA will determine the priority of applications for construction or acquisition grants for State Extended Care Facilities for purposes of the priority list. Section 206 also provides the Secretary authority to conditionally approve an application and obligate funds for a grant is the Secretary determines that the State can meet all remaining Federal requirements within 90 days. At the same time, VA is updating the States home grant standards and veteran population of the various States set forth in these regulations. These revisions will assist the States in meeting deadlines for the priority list and subsequent grant awards.
A comprehensive payment model for short- and long-stay psychiatric patients.	In this article, a payment model is developed for a hospital system with both acute- and chronic-stay psychiatric patients. "Transition pricing" provides a balance between the incentives of an episode-based system and the necessity of per diem long-term payments. Payment is dependent on two new psychiatric resident classification systems for short- and long-term stays. Data on per diem cost of inpatient care, by day of stay, was computed from a sample of 2,968 patients from 100 psychiatric units in 51 Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Medical Centers. Using a 9-month cohort of all VA psychiatric discharges nationwide (79,337 with non-chronic stays), profits and losses were simulated.
Additional disability or death due to hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, examination, or training and rehabilitation services--VA. Final rule.	This document amends the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) adjudication regulations concerning awards of compensation or dependency and indemnity compensation for additional disability or death due to VA hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, examination, or training and rehabilitation services. Under this final rule, benefits are payable for additional disability or death caused by VA hospital care, medical or surgical treatment, or examination only if VA fault or "an event not reasonably foreseeable" proximately caused the disability or death. Benefits are also payable for additional disability or death proximately caused by VA's provision of training and rehabilitation services. This final rule is necessary to reflect Congress' recent amendment of 38 U.S.C. 1151, the statutory authority for such benefits.
Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA)--VA. Final rule.	This document amends the medical regulations concerning medical care for survivors and dependents of certain veterans. These regulations establish basic policies and procedures governing the administration of the Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs (CHAMPVA), including CHAMPVA claims processing procedures, benefits and services.
Claims based on exposure to ionizing radiation (prostate cancer and any other cancer)--VA. Final rule.	This document amends the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) adjudication regulations concerning compensation for diseases claimed to be the result of exposure to ionizing radiation. This amendment implements a decision by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs that, based on all evidence currently available to him, prostate cancer and any other cancers may be induced by ionizing radiation. The intended effect of this action is to relieve veterans, or their survivors, seeking benefits under the provisions of the Veterans' Dioxin and Radiation Exposure Compensation Standards Act of the burden of having to submit evidence that a veteran's prostate cancer or any other cancer may have been induced by ionizing radiation.
Medical care collection or recovery--VA. Proposed rule.	This document proposes to amend VA's medical regulations concerning collection or recovery by VA for medical care or services provided or furnished to a veteran: For a non-service connected disability for which the veteran is entitled to care (or the payment of expenses of care) under a health-plan contract; For a non-service connected disability incurred incident to the veteran's employment and covered under a worker's compensation law or plan that provides reimbursement or indemnification for such care and services; or For a non-service connected disability incurred as a result of a motor vehicle accident in a State that requires automobile accident reparations insurance. Previously, by statute VA was authorized to charge "reasonable costs" for such care or services. However, amended statutory provisions now authorize VA to charge "reasonable charges." Accordingly, this document proposes to establish methodology for charging "reasonable charges" consistent with the statutory amendment. Under the proposal, the charges billed using this methodology, as appropriate, would consist of inpatient facility charges, skilled nursing facility/sub-acute inpatient facility charges, outpatient facility charges, physician charges, and non-physician provider charges. Reasonable charges for outpatient dental care and prescription drugs not administered during treatment would continue to be billed using the existing cost-based methodology. Pursuant to statutory authority, VA has the right to recover or collect the charges from a third party to the extent that a provider of the care or services would be eligible to receive payment therefor from that third party if the care or services had not been furnished by a department or agency of the United States. With respect to a third-party payer liable under a health plan contract, consistent with the statutory authority, the third-party payer would have the option of paying to the extent of its coverage, either the billed charges or the amount the third-party payer demonstrates it would pay for care or services furnished by providers other than entities of the United States for the same care or services in the same geographic area. Using the methodology in this proposed rule, the data for calculating actual amounts for the various inpatient facility charges, skilled nursing facility/sub-acute inpatient facility charges, outpatient facility charges, and physician charges at individual VA facilities for the period August 1998 through September 1999 are set forth in a companion document published in the "Notices" section of this issue of the Federal Register. Also, under the proposal, the regulations would be clarified to state specifically that billing methodology based on costs will continue to be applied to establish charges for medical care furnished in error or on tentative eligibility, furnished in a medical emergency, furnished to certain beneficiaries of the Department of Defense or other Federal agencies, furnished to pensioners of allied nations, and furnished to military retirees with chronic disability.
Medical care collection or recovery--VA. Notice.	In a companion document published in the "Proposed Rules" section of this issue of the Federal Register, we proposed to amend VA's medical regulations concerning collection or recovery by VA for medical care or services provided or furnished to a veteran: (i) For a non-service connected disability for which the veteran is entitled to care (or the payment of expenses of care) under a health-plan contract; (ii) For a non-service connected disability incurred incident to the veteran's employment and covered under a worker's compensation law or plan that provides reimbursement or indemnification for such care and services; or (iii) For a non-service connected disability incurred as a result of a motor vehicle accident in a State that requires automobile accident reparations insurance. The proposed rule includes methodology for establishing charges for VA medical care or services. Using this methodology, information for calculating proposed charge amounts at individual VA facilities for inpatient facility charges, skilled nursing facility/sub-acute inpatient facility charges, outpatient facility charges, and physician charges is set forth below. If this methodology were adopted subsequently as a final rule, the applicable data in this document, designed for the period August 1998 through September 1999, would be used for the period from the effective date of the final rule through September 1999. Accordingly, interested parties may wish to retain this document for future reference.
Well grounded claims/duty to assist--VA. Advance notice of proposed rulemaking.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is issuing an advance notice of proposed rulemaking (ANPRM) to establish policy and guidance regarding what action, if any, VA should take to develop evidence pertaining to benefit claims that are not well grounded.
Medical: advance healthcare planning--VA. Proposed rule.	This document proposes to amend the VA medical regulations to codify VA policy regarding advance healthcare planning. The proposed rule sets forth a mechanism for the use of written advance directives, i.e., a VA Living Will, a VA durable power of attorney for health care, and a state-authorized advance directive. The proposed rule also sets forth a mechanism for honoring verbal or nonverbal instructions from a patient when the patient is admitted to care when critically ill and loss of capacity may be imminent and the patient is not physically able to sign an advance directive form, or the appropriate form is not readily available. This is intended to help ensure that VA acts in compliance with patients' wishes concerning future healthcare.
Home-based primary care in the VA setting, with a focus on Birmingham, Alabama.	The Veterans Administration Hospital-Based Home Care Program provides comprehensive primary care to homebound veterans. Unlike Medicare-funded home care, it is not oriented to episodic provision of skilled nursing care, but rather to long-term primary care in the home. The interdisciplinary composition of HBPC teams allows for innovative approaches to care and coordinated implementation of treatment plans. Outcomes assessment of care provided through HBPC has been positive, suggesting an overall improvement in function and decrease in health care costs among those using the HBPC Program. The HBPC Program offers a tested model of primary home care within a "managed care" model. Its positive features should be considered by those initiating managed primary home care within the private sector.
Summary of precedent opinions of the General Counsel--VA. Notice.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is publishing a summary of legal interpretations issued by the Department's General Counsel involving veterans' benefits under laws administered by VA. These interpretations are considered precedential by VA and will be followed by VA officials and employees in future claim matters. The summary is published to provide the public, and, in particular, veterans' benefit claimants and their representatives, with notice of VA's interpretation regarding the legal matter at issue.
Recognition of organizations and accreditation of representatives, attorneys, and agents--VA. Proposed rule.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) proposes to revise existing procedures and requirements regarding recognition of service organizations and accreditation of their representatives and agents, attorneys, and individuals seeking to represent claimants for benefits administered by VA. These amendments are necessary to improve clarity and to enhance VA's ability to assure high quality representation of claimants.
Per diem for nursing home care of veterans in state homes--VA. Proposed rule.	This document proposes to revise regulations setting forth a mechanism for paying per diem to State homes providing nursing home care to eligible veterans. The intended effect of the proposed regulations is to ensure that veterans receive high quality care in State homes.
VA acquisition regulations: simplified acquisition procedures for health care resources--VA. Proposed rule.	This document proposes to amend the Department of Veterans Affairs Acquisition Regulations (VAAR) to establish simplified procedures for the competitive acquisition of healthcare resources, consisting of commercial services or the use of medical equipment or space, pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 8151-8153. Presently, the VAAR does not contain simplified procedures. In the absence of such procedures, the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) follows the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the current VAAR. Public Law 104-262, the Veterans' Health Care Eligibility Reform Act of 1996, authorized VA to prescribe simplified procedures for the procurement of health-care resources. This proposed rule prescribes those procedures.
The VA on the firing line. Veterans groups oppose privatization despite a dwindling patient population, high costs.	Demographic trends raise some uncomfortable questions for the VA and Congress. For example, should American taxpayers continue financing a government-owned and -operated healthcare system that spends $17.3 billion a year and serves a shrinking population, when the government could buy the same care in the private sector? Some say the solution is to privatize the VA.
Veterans Administration--Veterans' benefits; institutional awards. Final regulation.	The Veterans Administration has amended one of its regulations to increase the amount of monthly compensation, pension or retired pay payable to a chief officer of a non-VA institution on behalf of an incompetent veteran patient from $50 to $60. The need for this action results from enactment of the Veterans' and Survivors' Pension Improvement Act of 1978 which increased the amount of benefits payable to hospitalized veterans without dependents from $50 to $60.
Treatment of urge incontinence in Veterans Affairs medical centers.	Urinary incontinence has far-reaching medical, psychological, social, and economic effects. The objectives of this descriptive study were to examine utilization patterns and discontinuation rates of various pharmacologic agents used to treat symptoms of overactive bladder, primarily urge incontinence (UI), and to estimate the prevalence of urinary incontinence in the study population. Patient-level data regarding specific drugs used to treat UI and the use of diapers or pads over a 9-month period from October 1995 to May 1996 were retrospectively extracted from the medication databases of 9 Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. A total of 2233 male patients were included in the analyses. Most patients were receiving oxybutynin chloride (39.8%), dicyclomine hydrochloride (16.0%), or imipramine hydrochloride (13.9%), and the remaining 30.3% were using flavoxate hydrochloride, propantheline bromide, hyoscyamine sulfate, and adult diapers or pads. Overall, 72.1% of patients had been prescribed daily dosages within the recommended dosing ranges for these medications. The majority (91.3%) of patients had not switched to another UI medication during the study period. Based on a chronic disease index, 47.6% of patients had 2 or fewer chronic diseases. Using pooled prevalence estimates, the estimated percentage of patients who had ever experienced UI in this population ranged from 7.4% to 20.8%; however, a considerably smaller percentage were taking medications for the treatment of UI. The results of this study suggest that oxybutynin, dicyclomine, and imipramine are the agents most commonly used to treat urinary incontinence within Veterans Affairs medical centers. The majority of patients who received a prescription for one of these drugs did not routinely refill the medication over the course of the study. There are many reasons for patients not to refill a prescription (eg, ineffectiveness, side effects, complications, obtaining the drug from another source), but the present study did not address the causes.
Mortality one-year postdischarge from a Veterans Affairs geriatric evaluation and management unit: assessing mortality risks.	To assess at Geriatric Evaluation and Management Unit (GEM) admission factors that affect mortality 12-months postdischarge and to develop a preliminary risk scoring protocol to guide targeting of GEM care.
Comparison based on age of baseline electrocardiographic abnormalities in non-Q-wave myocardial infarction. VANQWISH Trial Research Investigators. Veterans Affairs Non-Q-Wave Infarction Strategies In-Hospital.	To compare the incidence of electrocardiographic abnormalities between older (age > or = 70 years) and younger patients presenting with acute non-Q-wave myocardial infarction.
Functional status outcomes for assessment of quality in long-term care.	Although decline in functional status has been recommended as a quality indicator in long-term care, studies examining its use provide no consensus on which definition of functional status outcome is the most appropriate to use for quality assessment. We examined whether different definitions of decline in functional status affect judgments of quality of care provided in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) long-term care facilities.
Screening for mental illness in a Veterans Affairs women's health clinic.	This study examined the prevalence of self-reported mental illness and related impairment in social and occupational functioning among 209 female veterans enrolled in a primary care clinic. Ninety-four (45 percent) of the women screened positive for at least one psychiatric disorder, 46 (22 percent) for two or more coexisting psychiatric disorders, and 40 (19 percent) for only subthreshold disorders. The degree of self-reported impairment in social and occupational functioning was strongly related to the number of psychiatric diagnoses. Women who were under the age of 50 and those who had a service-connected disability were more likely to screen positive for a mental disorder.
Variations on the CAGE alcohol screening questionnaire: strengths and limitations in VA general medical patients.	Several variations on the CAGE alcohol screening questionnaire have been recommended. This report evaluates modifications and additions to the CAGE.
Informal roles and the stages of interdisciplinary team development.	After presenting a theory of team development, we propose that the informal role structure of a team is dependent upon the degree of anomie in the team culture, and we provide measures of anomie and informal roles that can be used in field settings. Then we test hypotheses on a national sample of 111 interdisciplinary health care teams in geriatrics in US Veterans Affairs medical centers. We find evidence that as teams develop from early to later stages, the interpersonal behavior of members becomes less differentiated on three dimensions: prominence, sociability, and task-orientation. In addition, we find that images of each member come into clearer focus, as evidenced by reduced variation in how each member is seen by other team members. Finally, we find that regardless of stage of team development, the more education the team members have, the more prominent and task-oriented they are. In general, physicians score highest in prominence and task-orientation, but relatively low in sociability.
Claims based on the effects of tobacco products. Final rule.	This document amends the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) adjudication regulations governing determinations of whether disability or death is service-connected. These changes are necessary to implement a statutory amendment providing that a disability or death will not be service-connected on the basis that it resulted from injury or disease attributable to a veteran's use of tobacco products during service.
Schedule for rating disabilities: disabilities of the liver. Final rule.	This document amends the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Schedule for Rating Disabilities (38 CFR part 4) by revising the portion of the Digestive System that addresses disabilities of the liver. The intended effect of this action is to update this portion of the rating schedule to ensure that it uses current medical terminology and unambiguous criteria, and that it reflects medical advances that have occurred since the last review.
Disease associated with exposure to certain herbicide agents: type 2 diabetes. Final rule.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is amending its adjudication regulations concerning presumptive service connection for certain diseases for which there is no record during service. This amendment is necessary to implement a decision of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under the authority granted by 38 U.S.C. 1116 that there is a positive association between exposure to herbicides used in the Republic of Vietnam during the Vietnam era and the subsequent development of Type 2 diabetes. The intended effect of this amendment is to establish presumptive service connection for that condition based on herbicide exposure.
Academic detailing to improve antihypertensive prescribing patterns.	Several studies indicate that treatment of hypertension in the United States does not follow recommendations from expert bodies. We thus implemented a program using academic detailers to increase practitioner compliance with antihypertensive treatment guidelines. Five Veterans Affairs medical facilities including academic medical centers and community based outpatient clinics were chosen for the intervention. Pharmacists were trained as academic detailers, and the intervention included lectures, educational materials, provider profiling, and meetings with 25 to 50 providers each. After intervention, the proportion of hypertensives receiving calcium antagonists decreased from 43% to 38% (P <.001), whereas the proportion receiving a beta blocker or thiazide diuretic increased from 58% to 64% (P <.001). For hypertensive subjects with diabetes mellitus or congestive heart failure, the proportion receiving an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor or angiotensin receptor blocker increased from 72% to 76% for the former and from 74% to 78% for the latter (P <.001 for both). Among hypertensive subjects with coronary artery disease an increase in beta blocker use was noted after intervention (P <.001 for change from baseline). Prescribing patterns after academic detailing more closely followed national recommendations.
The association between three different measures of health status and satisfaction among patients with diabetes.	Studies suggest that health status influences patient satisfaction, but little work has examined the influence of different measures of health status on satisfaction. The authors examined whether the association between health status and satisfaction varied for different measures of health status among 2000 diabetic patients receiving care across 25 Veterans Affairs facilities. Health status was measured using (1) the diabetes-related components of the Total Illness Burden Index (DM TIBI), a measure of diabetes severity and comorbidities; (2) the Short Form 36 (SF-36) Physical Function Index (PFI10); and (3) the SF-36 general health perceptions question (SF-1). Satisfaction was measured both by a 5-item scale on satisfaction with patient-provider communication and by a single item on overall diabetes care satisfaction. In adjusted models, worse health on all three health status measures correlated with lower satisfaction, but the DM TIBI explained more of the variation in satisfaction than either the PFI10 or SF-1. Moreover, when the DM TIBI was added to the model containing PFI10, PFI10 was no longer significantly associated with satisfaction. In this diabetes population, health status appears to have a substantial impact on patient satisfaction, and this effect is considerably greater for diabetes severity than for physical functioning.
Differential adoption of pharmacotherapy recommendations for type 2 diabetes by generalists and specialists.	Newer, multimedication (novel) regimens provide better glycemic control for many type 2 diabetics when sulfonylurea monotherapy (traditional) becomes ineffective. Because better glycemic control is associated with decreased likelihood of complications and lower utilization and cost of care, the authors examined change in prescribing patterns for veterans with type 2 diabetes between FY 97 and 99. They classified medication regimens as traditional and novel based on the combination of diabetes medications patients received at the end of each year. Multivariate logistic regression analyses controlling for disease severity indicated that patients were more likely to receive novel regimens over time, but those seen only in primary care were less likely to receive novel regimens than those previously seen by a specialist. Geographic differences and differences in how recommendations were implemented by generalists and specialists suggest that diffusion of innovations theory may help explain variations in practice and guide interventions designed to translate research into practice.
VHA enrollees' health care coverage and use of care.	The authors examined health care coverage for Veterans' Health Administration (VHA) enrollees and how their reliance on VHA care varies by coverage, using the largest and most detailed survey of veterans using VHA services ever conducted. The results showed that a majority of veterans who use VHA services have alternative health care coverage and that most of them use both VHA and non-VHA health care. The findings have important implications for quality of care and coordination of care.
VistA--U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs national-scale HIS.	The Veterans Health Administration of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs has a long, successful, and interesting history of using information technology to meet its mission. Each medical center is computerized to a degree that surprises the uninitiated. For example, medical documentation and ordering are computerized at every facility. A sophisticated national infrastructure has been developed to replicate, support, and evolve single-center successes. With advances in inter-facility networking, data sharing, and specialized central support and technical tools, VistA is becoming a single, highly scalable national health information system (HIS) solution. In this paper, we present an historical overview of VistA's development, describe its current functionality, and discuss its emergence as a national-scale hospital information system.
The influence of distance on utilization of outpatient mental health aftercare following inpatient substance abuse treatment.	This study examined whether substance abuse patients who live farther from their source of outpatient mental health care were less likely to obtain aftercare following an inpatient treatment episode. For those patients who did receive aftercare, distance was evaluated as a predictor of the volume of care received. A national sample of 33,952 veterans discharged from Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) inpatient substance abuse treatment programs was analyzed using a two-part choice model utilizing logistic and linear regression. Patients living farther from their source of outpatient mental health care were less likely to obtain aftercare following inpatient substance abuse treatment. Patients who traveled 10 miles or less were 2.6 times more likely to obtain aftercare than those who traveled more than 50 miles. Only 40% of patients who lived more than 25 miles from the nearest aftercare facility obtained any aftercare services. Patients who received aftercare services had fewer visits if they lived farther from their source of aftercare. Lack of geographic access (distance) is a barrier to outpatient mental health care following inpatient substance abuse treatment, and influences the volume of care received once the decision to obtain aftercare is made. Aftercare services must be geographically accessible to ensure satisfactory utilization.
A comparison of anterior chamber and posterior chamber intraocular lenses after vitreous presentation during cataract surgery: the Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Cataract Study.	To compare the efficacy and safety of anterior chamber (AC) intraocular lenses (IOLs) and posterior chamber (PC) IOLs implanted after vitreous presentation during extracapsular cataract extraction (ECCE).
The health and functional status of US veterans aged 65+: implications for VA health programs serving an elderly, diverse veteran population.	As the US population is aging, so too is the US veteran population. Chief among the challenges facing the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is developing health programs and services that mesh with the needs of an aging veteran population and therefore improve the health status of elderly veterans. Meeting this challenge requires an understanding of the health needs of the older veteran population, including health disparities that exist across racial ethnic populations. This study examines the self-rated health and functioning of a national sample of veterans aged 65+ participating in the National Survey of Veterans. The results show that over one half of elderly veterans report difficulty in functioning and rate their health status as fair or poor. Additionally, elderly African American and Hispanic veterans report worse health than non-Hispanic white veterans across the majority of health indicators. Given the health profile of older veterans found in this study, it would seem necessary that programs serving older veterans be adept at the ongoing medical management of chronic disease and the provision of long-term care services.
What factors influence provider knowledge of a congestive heart failure guideline in a national health care system?	Provider knowledge is a potential barrier to adherence to clinical guidelines. The purpose of this study is to assess the impact of organizational, provider, and guideline factors on provider knowledge of a congestive heart failure (CHF) clinical practice guideline (CPG) in the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) health care system. We developed a survey to investigate institution-level factors influencing the effectiveness of guideline implementation, including characteristics of the guideline, providers, hospital culture and structure, and regional network. Survey participants were quality managers, primary care administrators, and other individuals involved in primary care CPG implementation at 143 VHA hospitals with ambulatory care clinics. Potential explanatory variables were grouped into 11 factors. Multivariate regression models assessed the association between these factors and reported levels of provider knowledge regarding the CHF guideline at the hospital level. Two hundred forty surveys from 126 of 143 (88%) VHA hospitals were returned. Provider knowledge of the CHF guideline was estimated as "great" or "very great" by 58% of respondents. Three predictor factors (dissemination approaches, use of technology in guideline implementation, and hospital culture) were independently associated (P < or = .05) with provider knowledge. Specific variables within these categories that were related to greater knowledge included physician belief that guidelines were applicable to their practice, distribution of guideline summaries, use of guideline storyboards in clinic areas, the use of technology (eg, electronic patient records) in CPG implementation, and establishment of implementation checkpoints and deadlines. Provider knowledge of guidelines is affected by factors at various organizational levels: dissemination approaches, use of technology, and hospital culture. Guideline implementation efforts that target multiple organizational levels may increase provider knowledge.
A retrospective review of thiazolidinediones with development of a troglitazone conversion protocol.	The objective of this paper was (1) to assess compliance with the National Veterans Affairs Guidelines for the use of troglitazone and rosiglitazone and (2) to develop and implement a conversion protocol that allows effective management of patients receiving troglitazone. A retrospective chart review was conducted to assess adherence to guidelines for all patients receiving troglitazone and rosiglitazone at the medical center. Appropriateness of therapy through indication evaluation, safety through alanine aminotransferase (ALT) monitoring compliance, and efficacy through hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) changes were used to assess adherence. According to National Veterans Affairs (VA) Guidelines, 68% of troglitazone and 63% of rosiglitazone patients had an appropriate indication for the use of these agents. Baseline ALT levels were obtained in 40% of troglitazone and 71% of rosiglitazone patients. Full compliance with continual ALT monitoring was seen in 6 and 54% of patients, respectively. Goal HbA1c was achieved in 57 and 29% of patients, respectively. Of the 33 patients receiving troglitazone, 19 were converted to rosiglitazone therapy; 11 were maintained on current regimens without troglitazone, and 3 were lost to follow up. Adherence to guidelines needs to be reinforced, in particular, compliance with ALT monitoring. However, there were no reported cases of hepatotoxicity in the patients reviewed. Many patients did not achieve a HbA1c < 8% on either agent. Development of the protocol allowed for efficient conversion of the patients" diabetes regimen while safely identifying those that should remain on this class of medication.
Measuring adherence to depression treatment guidelines in a VA primary care clinic.	The primary objectives of this pilot study were to develop a measure of adherence for depression practice guidelines and to assess the degree to which providers and patients adhere to guidelines in a VA primary care setting. The Depression Guideline Measure (DGM) is based on three national guidelines. The DGM was used to review medical records of 111 patients with Patient Health Questionnaire (PHQ) scores >or=10. Interrater reliability for 15 of 19 DGM checklist items was excellent (kappa > 0.75). There was a broad range of adherence to guideline criteria: only 13.5% of patients were contacted for follow-up within 2 weeks, while 100% of providers documented follow-up plans. Forty percent of patients saw mental health providers, and 63% were prescribed antidepressants. A secondary objective of the study was to explore the relationship between guideline adherence and changes in PHQ scores. Among 51 patients who completed follow-up PHQs, no associations were detected. The results suggest that the DGM shows promise as a reliable measure of guideline adherence and that guideline criteria are frequently not met in busy primary care clinics. More research is needed to determine the validity of the DGM and the impact of guideline adherence on depression outcomes.
Implementing a disease management intervention for depression in primary care: a random work sampling study.	We describe the daily work activities of 13 Depression Clinical Specialists (DCSs) at 7 national sites who served as care managers in an effective multisite randomized trial of a disease management model for depression in primary care. DCSs carried portable random-reminder beepers for a total of 147 consecutive workdays and recorded 4,030 work activities. Patient care activity comprised the largest percentage of the workday, 49.4% (95% confidence interval [CI], 42.0 to 56.7%), followed by research-related activity, 18.3 % (95% CI, 14.7 to 21.9%), administrative work, 17.9% (95% CI, 12.2 to 23.7%), personal time, 9.4% (95% CI, 5.4 to 13.4%), and time in transit, 5.1% (95% CI, 2.8 to 7.4%). The DCSs delivered 19.2% (95% CI, 14.4 to 24.1%) of direct patient care by telephone. The DCSs spent a significant portion of the day alone 48.7% (95% CI, 43.3 to 54.1%), followed by time spent with patients, 37.5% (95% CI, 31.6 to 43.3%). Less than 10% (7.8%) (95% CI, 5.1 to 10.6%) of their time was spent with local study staff. Less than 4% of their time was spent with other health care providers. Our results demonstrate that the DCSs' time was primarily devoted to clinical care, a significant portion of which was delivered by telephone. They functioned independently, making efficient use of the limited amount of time that they interacted with other health care providers. This information will be helpful to those who may wish to implement this disease management strategy.
Do different case-mix measures affect assessments of provider efficiency? Lessons from the Department of Veterans Affairs.	Although case-mix adjustment is critical for provider profiling, little is known regarding whether different case-mix measures affect assessments of provider efficiency. We examine whether two case-mix measures, Adjusted Clinical Groups (ACGs) and Diagnostic Cost Groups (DCGs), result in different assessments of efficiency across service networks within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Three profiling indicators examine variation in resource use. Although results from the ACGs and DCGs generally agree on which networks have greater or lesser efficiency than average, assessments of individual network efficiency vary depending upon the case-mix measure used. This suggests that caution should be used so that providers are not misclassified based on reported efficiency.
A reassessment of radioactive material security in health care and biomedical research.	The medical facilities of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) use radioactive material for health care and biomedical research. In the past, a single level of security for all radioactive material was generally deemed to be adequate. The events of 11 September 2001 prompted a reassessment of security. Based on site visits to VA facilities possessing a range of radioactive material typically used in health care and biomedical research, the VA National Health Physics Program has compiled recommendations for the security of radioactive material. A primary recommendation is to evaluate radioactive material from a risk perspective and use security measures commensurate with risk. The risk evaluation should consider activity, half-life, exposure rate constant, ALI, ease of removal/portability, and dispersibility. We concluded that current security measures are likely adequate for the risks associated with most nuclear medicine departments and biomedical research laboratories. However, for radioactive material of higher risk, particularly multicurie sources of long half-life, the radiation safety staff should consult with police/security experts to determine if additional security measures are warranted. This focus on risk should help optimize resource allocation. We also recommend that security evaluations consider both physical security and personnel security, training of staff with unescorted access to higher-risk radioactive material emphasize security issues, and disposal of higher-risk material not likely to be used. Finally, we note that the goals of security can be in conflict with hazard awareness and hazard communication.
Veterans seeking disability benefits for post-traumatic stress disorder: who applies and the self-reported meaning of disability compensation.	Assumptions about the characteristics and motivations of individuals pursuing disability status are well known. However, policy, programming and interventions need to be based on information about the actual sociodemographic characteristics of disabled individuals, as well as their goals in seeking disability status. In this study, we focus on veterans seeking disability compensation for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. We present information on their life circumstances and their self-reported reasons for valuing the obtainment of veterans' disability status on the basis of PTSD. There was considerable variability in the background of veterans seeking disability status on the basis of PTSD. Of concern, only about half of these individuals were receiving any mental health treatment at the time of application. Most claimants reported seeking disability compensation for symbolic reasons, especially for acknowledgement, validation and relief from self-blame. Reasons having to do with improved finances were less frequently endorsed, although the importance of obtaining improved solvency through disability status decreased as income increased. The sense of investment in obtaining a sense of self-acceptance and acceptance from others through disability status varied by sociodemographic variables. Overall, findings suggest that individuals seeking disability benefits may have unmet mental health care needs, and that policy makers, investigators and providers should consider material benefit as one of many possible reasons for engaging in a disability compensation system.
Beliefs about evidence-based practices in addiction treatment: a survey of Veterans Administration program leaders.	The purpose of this study was to determine Veterans Administration addiction treatment program leaders' familiarity with evidence-based practices, understanding of and attitudes toward existing VA treatment guidelines, the extent to which specific practices should be implemented, and perceived barriers to implementation. Two hundred and twenty surveys were mailed to program leaders between November 1999 and May 2000. One hundred and seventy-four (79%) were completed, representing 135 out of 162 (83%) facilities. Program leaders saw guidelines as educational tools that improved quality of care and could be implemented into existing programs. However, they also perceived staff resistance to implementation. The most strongly cited barriers to implementation were lack of administrative support, insufficient staff time, and lack of skills or knowledge. Several treatments were seen as strongly evidentiary, but were not widely implemented, suggesting possible foci for future translation studies.
Preliminary outcomes from an integrated mental health primary care team.	The effects of establishing a multidisciplinary mental health primary care team in a Veterans Affairs internal medicine primary care clinic were evaluated. The multidisciplinary team worked in collaboration with primary care providers to evaluate and treat their patients, who had a wide variety of psychiatric disorders, in the primary care clinic. In the first year of operation preliminary outcomes indicated that the rate of referrals to specialty mental health care dropped from 38 percent to 14 percent. The mean number of appointments with the team for evaluation and stabilization was 2.5. These outcomes suggest that a multidisciplinary mental health primary care team can rapidly evaluate and stabilize patients with a wide range of psychiatric disorders, reduce the number of referrals to specialty mental health care, and improve collaborative care.
Differences in rates of diarrhea in patients with human immunodeficiency virus receiving lopinavir-ritonavir or nelfinavir.	To determine and compare rates of diarrhea in patients receiving an antiretroviral regimen containing lopinavir-ritonavir versus nelfinavir and in patients who received these drugs sequentially.
Frequency of simvastatin prescriptions with potentially interacting medications in a Veterans Affairs health care system.	The primary objective of this review is to quantify the proportion of patients on simvastatin, an HMG-CoA reductase inhibitor (commonly known as statin), who received concurrent prescriptions for potentially interacting chronicuse medications. The secondary objective is to determine the frequency with which simvastatin was prescribed above its recommended dose when administered concomitantly with known interacting medications.
Ten myths about decision-making capacity.	As a matter of practical reality, what role patients will play in decisions about their health care is determined by whether their clinicians judge them to have decision-making capacity. Because so much hinges on assessments of capacity, clinicians who work with patients have an ethical obligation to understand this concept. This article, based on a report prepared by the National Ethics Committee (NEC) of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA), seeks to provide clinicians with practical information about decision-making capacity and how it is assessed. A study of clinicians and ethics committee chairs carried out under the auspices of the NEC identified the following 10 common myths clinicians hold about decision-making capacity: (1) decision-making capacity and competency are the same; (2) lack of decision-making capacity can be presumed when patients go against medical advice; (3) there is no need to assess decision-making capacity unless patients go against medical advice; (4) decision-making capacity is an "all or nothing" phenomenon; (5) cognitive impairment equals lack of decision-making capacity; (6) lack of decision-making capacity is a permanent condition; (7) patients who have not been given relevant and consistent information about their treatment lack decision-making capacity; (8) all patients with certain psychiatric disorders lack decision-making capacity; (9) patients who are involuntarily committed lack decision-making capacity; and (10) only mental health experts can assess decision-making capacity. By describing and debunking these common misconceptions, this article attempts to prevent potential errors in the clinical assessment of decision-making capacity, thereby supporting patients' right to make choices about their own health care.
Alcohol dependence, other psychiatric disorders, and health-related quality of life: a replication study in a large random sample of enrollees in the Veterans Health Administration.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the relationship between alcohol dependence and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in people with and without other selected psychiatric disorders. A sample of 127,308 Veterans Health Administration enrollees completed a survey that included questions about alcohol use and the Veterans SF-36, a well-validated measure of HRQoL. In addition, a Veterans Administration database was used to obtain respondents' past-year history of alcohol dependence and other psychiatric disorders. Comorbid psychiatric disorders significantly moderated or attenuated the relationship between alcohol dependence and HRQoL. Respondents with a history of alcohol dependence plus one or more other psychiatric disorders had significantly lower HRQoL in domains pertaining to psychological and social functioning than respondents with alcohol dependence only. Effect size differences (mean differences of clinical groups/pooled standard deviation) were large (greater than 0.80 of one standard deviation). Respondents with a history of alcohol dependence only vs. no history of alcohol dependence had poorer HRQoL. Effect size differences were small to moderate (between 0.20 and 0.50 of one standard deviation). Findings highlight the important moderating influence of comorbid psychiatric disorders in the relationship between alcohol dependence and HRQoL. As comorbid psychiatric disorders are often associated with poorer treatment outcome, findings also provide strong corroboration for the importance of treating other psychiatric disorders concurrently with alcohol dependence.
Variations in nurse practitioner use in Veterans Affairs primary care practices.	Increasingly, primary care practices include nurse practitioners (NPs) in their staffing mix to contain costs and expand primary care. To achieve these aims in U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers (VAMCs), national policy endorsed involvement of NPs as primary care (PC) providers.
Comparison of patient-based oral health outcome measures.	This project examined psychometric characteristics of four measures of oral-specific health-related quality of life.
Benzodiazepines and injury: a risk adjusted model.	Benzodiazepines (BZD) are one class of medications that are generally acknowledged to be a risk factor for injuries.
Changes in satisfaction with mental health services among blacks, whites, and Hispanics in the Department of Veterans Affairs.	This paper presents an analysis of changes in satisfaction of minorities with inpatient mental health services provided by the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) during a period of major system change (1995-2001). Post discharge data from 16,223 veterans who received inpatient VHA mental healthservices at 87 medical centers during this period was examined using hierarchical linear models. Blacks were found to have higher satisfaction levels on most measures over the period of study while the satisfaction of whites and Hispanics were not significantly different. There was little change over the study period in the relative satisfaction of minorities and whites. Changes in patterns of VHA mental health care have not adversely affected the satisfaction of minority veterans.
Comparing the quality of antidepressant pharmacotherapy in the Department of Veterans Affairs and the private sector.	Comparing quality of care between large health care systems is important for health systems management. This study compared measures of the quality of pharmacotherapy for patients with major depression across a sample of patients from the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and the private sector.
Assessing the accuracy of administrative data in health information systems.	Administrative data play a central role in health care. Inaccuracies in such data are costly to health systems, they obscure health research, and they affect the quality of patient care.
Older patients with serious mental illness: sensitivity to distance barriers for outpatient care.	To inform health services delivery and to demonstrate the appropriateness of understanding access at the individual's level, we evaluated how patient characteristics affect sensitivity to access barriers. We examined one dimension of access: geographic accessibility. We assessed age differences in sensitivity to distance barriers for outpatient psychiatric and nonpsychiatric care among active Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) patients with serious mental illness.
Outcomes of supported housing for homeless veterans with psychiatric and substance abuse problems.	This study examines the effect of previous participation in time limited residential treatment and other factors on treatment outcomes among homeless veterans with serious mental illness placed into permanent supported housing. The sample consisted of 655 veterans placed into supported housing at 18 sites through the VA's Healthcare for Homeless Veterans (HCHV) Supported Housing Program during the period 1993-2000. Data on client and program characteristics, and treatment outcomes, were documented by HCHV case managers staffing these programs. Data on use of VA services, including time limited residential treatment received 6 months prior to entry into supported housing, were extracted from VA administrative files. The relationship of prior residential treatment, as well as other measures of client characteristics, service use, and program characteristics, to outcomes were assessed using both bivariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression and logistic regression. After adjusting for client characteristics, service use, and program characteristics, no differences in outcomes were found between clients who had received prior residential treatment and those placed directly into permanent supported housing. Prior residential treatment appears to have little effect on treatment outcomes among formerly homeless veterans placed into permanent supported housing programs providing indirect support for the direct placement supported housing model.
The influence of insulin use on glycemic control: How well do adults follow prescriptions for insulin?	The purposes of this study were to determine the relationship between insulin self-management and glycemic control and to identify patient characteristics associated with better control.
Complexity of medication use in the Veterans Affairs healthcare system: Part I: Outpatient use in relation to age and number of prescribers.	Multiple medication use is associated with an increased incidence of adverse drug-drug interactions (DDIs), medication errors, noncompliance, hospitalization, and healthcare costs. Drugs acting systemically or gastrointestinally ("SG" drugs) are of particular concern because of their potential to interact. A better understanding is needed of the relationship between multiple medication use, particularly of SG drugs, and age, number of prescribers, and common drug regimens.
Complexity of medication use in the Veterans Affairs healthcare system: Part II. Antidepressant use among younger and older outpatients.	A previous study, described in Part I of this report, found that 71% of a sample of 5,003 general outpatients in the Veterans Affairs healthcare system were receiving a unique drug regimen (i.e., total specific drug entities regardless of dose, formulation, or administration schedule). The simplest regimens contained only one drug, while the most complex regimens exceeded 20 different drugs. The purpose of the present study was to determine if patients receiving a specific therapeutic class of medications (e.g., antidepressants) have more homogeneous drug regimens.
Predicting costs of Veterans Affairs health care in Gulf War veterans with medically unexplained physical symptoms.	Measures of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression were used to predict Veterans Affairs outpatient treatment costs among Persian Gulf War veterans with medically unexplained physical symptoms. Patients (N = 206) enrolled in a Veterans Affairs primary care clinic for Persian Gulf War veterans completed study assessments at the initial appointment or at a proximal follow-up visit. Costs of care for mental health, medical, and pharmacy services for these veterans were computed for the subsequent 6-month period. Depression and PTSD symptoms explained a significant share of variance in costs of mental health care and pharmacy services, after adjustment for covariates. None of the mental status measures was significantly related to costs of medical care. Models using global measures of mental health status were as robust as models using disorder-specific measures of PTSD and depression in predicting mental health care and pharmacy costs. The implications of these findings for anticipating costs of care for Persian Gulf War veterans are discussed.
National trends in the provision of smoking cessation aids within the Veterans Health Administration.	To evaluate the effectiveness of the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) in providing treatment for tobacco dependence, accomplished by estimating national trends in the number and percent of smokers receiving smoking cessation aids (SCAs) within the VHA, trends in SCA utilization and expenditures, and the impact of lifting restrictions on patient access to SCAs.
Pharmacy benefits management in the Veterans Health Administration: 1995 to 2003.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Pharmacy Benefits Management Strategic Healthcare Group (VA PBM) oversees the formulary for the entire VA system, which serves more than 4 million veterans and provides more than 108 million prescriptions per year. Since its establishment in 1995, the VA PBM has managed pharmaceuticals and pharmaceutical-related policies, including drug safety and efficacy evaluations, pharmacologic management algorithms, and criteria for drug use. These evidence-based practices promote, optimize, and assist VA providers with the safe and appropriate use of pharmaceuticals while allowing for formulary decisions that can result in substantial cost savings. The VA PBM also has utilized various contracting techniques to standardize generic agents as well as specific drugs and drug classes (eg, antihistamines, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, alpha-blockers, and 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A reductase inhibitors [statins]). These methods have enabled the VA to save approximately dollar 1.5 billion since 1996 even as drug expenditures continued to rise from roughly dollar 1 billion in fiscal year (FY) 1996 to more than dollar 3 billion in FY 2003. Furthermore, the VA PBM has established an outcomes research section to undertake quality-improvement and safety initiatives that ultimately monitor and determine the clinical impact of formulary decisions on the VA system nationwide. The experiences of this pharmacy benefits program, including clinical and contracting processes/procedures and their impact on the VA healthcare system, are described.
Treatment patterns of multiple sclerosis patients: a comparison of veterans and non-veterans using the NARCOMS registry.	Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic illness of the central nervous system, with a highly variable clinical course. Available therapies are only partially effective and as a consequence treatment patterns between patients can be varied. Longitudinal databases consisting of large cohorts where successive and sequential data is collected may reveal disease and treatment characteristics not apparent when data is gathered during clinical trials that consist usually of relatively homogeneous patients followed for short durations. We analysed data from the North American Research Committee on Multiple Sclerosis registry, a self-reported database, to assess MS patient characteristics and treatment patterns, with a focus on veterans. We show that the Veteran Healthcare Administration (VHA) system of medical centres care for a greater number of patients with higher average disability but not necessarily patients who report primary progressive or actively worsening disease. We also show that the VHA medical centres appear to better provide multidisciplinary care, particularly in the areas of social work, physical therapy and urology. In general, treatment patterns for symptomatic therapies follow similar patterns across veterans and non-veterans groups. Treatment patterns for immunomodulatory agents suggest that VHA veterans use IMA less frequently than either non-VHA veterans or non-veterans.
Development of an integrated stroke outcomes database within Veterans Health Administration.	A fundamental goal of the Rehabilitation Outcomes Research Center of Excellence is to improve care and outcomes for veterans with rehabilitation needs. To achieve this goal, the Center's primary objective is increasing research capacity. The Integrated Stroke Outcomes Database is a collection of Veterans Health Administration (VHA) clinical and administrative data containing patient information on a cohort of stroke patients found in the Functional Status Outcomes Database (FSOD), National Patient Care Database (NPCD), and other VHA sources. Clinical and administrative data were abstracted from several VHA data sources and linked to form an integrated outcomes database. A primary cohort of stroke patients treated during fiscal year (FY) 2001 was identified from the FSOD. Matching data from the NPCD, Decision Support System, Health Economics Resource Center, and the National Veterans Survey were obtained, merged, and reported in brief. This integrated database structure will provide valuable support to enhance the VHA capacity to perform stroke rehabilitation research.
A longitudinal perspective on monitoring outcomes of an innovative program.	The use of outcome assessment to evaluate the performance of programs over many years of operation is becoming an increasingly important aspect of health care management. Over a five-year period of program monitoring, this study examined changes in individual client outcomes three months after discharge from a residential work therapy program for veterans with severe substance use disorders. The study also examined the relationship between these outcomes and changing program features, such as staffing, treatment variables, and follow-up rates.
An economic evaluation of inpatient residential treatment programs in the Department of Veterans Affairs.	The Veterans Health Administration (VA) established psychosocial residential rehabilitation treatment programs (RTPs) to treat eligible veterans who have psychiatric and substance use disorders in a less intensive and more self-reliant inpatient setting. Forty-two (25 percent) VA medical centers adopted RTPs in 1995. Panel regression models using data from 1993 through 1999 indicated that RTPs were associated with 8.6 and 24.4 percent decreases in the average cost per day for inpatient psychiatry and substance use care, respectively. During this time, VA transitioned much of the inpatient mental health care to ambulatory services. Yet medical centers with RTPs had smaller decreases in the number of inpatient patient days than those without RTPs. Because medical centers with RTPs provided more services, this offset the per diem savings, resulting in no significant differences in total costs between medical centers with and without RPTs.
Racial differences in attitudes regarding cardiovascular disease prevention and treatment: a qualitative study.	The objective of this study was to explore coronary heart disease (CHD) health care experiences and beliefs of African-American and white patients to elicit potential causes of racial disparities in CHD outcomes. Twenty-four patients (14 white, 10 African-American) with established CHD participated in one of four focus groups. Using qualitative methods, verbatim transcripts of the groups were analyzed by independent investigators to identify key themes. We identified four themes: risk factor knowledge, physician--patient relationship, medical system access, and treatment beliefs. Racial differences were apparent in the experience of racism as a stress, knowledge of specifics of CHD risk factors, and assertiveness in the physician--patient relationship. These findings suggest that strategies to improve risk factor knowledge and to enable African-American patients to become active partners in their medical care may lead to improved CHD morbidity and mortality in this population. The efficacy of such interventions would need to be tested in further work.
The impact of operative complexity on patient risk factors.	The VA National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP) formula for risk factors was applied to the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio (UTHSCSA)/University Hospital (UH) database. Its applicability to a civilian organization was established. Logistic regression analysis of the UH database revealed that operative complexity was significantly related to mortality only at high complexity levels. Patient risk factors were the major determinants of operative mortality for most civilian surgical cases.
A survey of PTSD screening and referral practices in VA addiction treatment programs.	Veterans with posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance use disorders (SUDs) demonstrate worse outcomes following treatment for SUDs than do veterans with SUDs only, and so PTSD treatment may enhance SUD outcomes for patients. A survey of current practice patterns in VA SUD treatment programs was undertaken to determine their concurrence with emerging practice guidelines for the assessment and treatment of SUD-PTSD comorbidity. Clinicians in outpatient SUD clinics and/or inpatient SUD programs were surveyed in six VA medical centers in 1999 and 2001 (respondents n = 57 and n = 39, respectively). Although one half to two thirds of clinicians working with SUD patients routinely screen for trauma exposure and PTSD, few assessments are systematically conducted using validated measures. Routine referrals to PTSD specialty and dual-diagnosis programs and to veterans' centers are made by between 35% and 60% of providers across inpatient and outpatient settings. Implications for improvement of clinical outcomes are discussed.
Fairness in prospective payment: a clustering approach.	Problems of fairness in prospective payment have existed since the inception of this regulatory method in the early 1980s. While prospective payment ostensibly has sought to reward efficient producers and provide disincentives for inefficient producers of health care, many hospitals have been penalized financially as a consequence of facing systematic factors beyond their control. This article defines homogenous peer groups of Department of Veterans Affairs providers for the purpose of establishing competitive prospective reimbursement rates. An econometric analysis classifies hospitals into six categories: small affiliated, small general, midsize affiliated/tertiary, large affiliated/tertiary, midsize general, and psychiatric. The Department of Veterans Affairs adopted this classification to alter its prospective payment system in 1988.
Assessing health care delivery to male versus female veterans.	The study reported was undertaken to explore allegations that women veterans have not received the quality of care in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) that is typical of that being received by their male counterparts. The study consisted of a chart review of male and female inpatients (n = 114) and telephone interviews with a subsample of these veterans (n = 55) treated at a large metropolitan VA hospital. Overall, chart documentation was poor, regardless of gender. On average, two-thirds of males and females receive regular gender-specific examinations, although the number is somewhat lower for females. Both women and men were quite satisfied with the care they received. Future studies should focus on the evaluation of workable solutions to providing equitable health care to women veterans that are already in operation.
Interventions with medical and psychiatric evacuees and their families: from Vietnam through the Gulf War.	Clinical, milieu, and patient management psycho-social interventions are identified and discussed concerning medical and psychiatric evacuees from a war zone. The acute psychological state of evacuees, specific areas of inquiry from the onset of becoming a casualty through initial hospitalization stateside, and interventions to address psychological aspects of being wounded or a psychiatric evacuee are highlighted. Issues and dynamics to address with the families, to include clinical experiences with families of Vietnam, Panama, and Gulf War military returnees are described, as well as specific risk factors for Operation Desert Storm families and personnel. Distinctive stressors faced by women, national guard and reserves, and ethnic minority personnel in Operation Desert Storm are identified. Finally, complications and recommendations concerning the appropriate diagnoses for psychiatric evacuees, and the stressors faced by the health care provider, are presented. Specific recommendations by veterans who themselves were evacuated from Vietnam are described in the veterans' own words.
LpA-I, LpA-I:A-II HDL and CHD-risk: The Framingham Offspring Study and the Veterans Affairs HDL Intervention Trial.	We tested the hypothesis that concentrations of LpA-I and/or LpA-I:A-II HDL subclasses are significantly associated with CHD prevalence and recurrent cardiovascular events.
Managing the life cycle of electronic clinical documents.	To develop a model of the life cycle of clinical documents from inception to use in a person's medical record, including workflow requirements from clinical practice, local policy, and regulation.
Barriers to obesity management: a pilot study of primary care clinicians.	Obesity is an increasing epidemic in both the US and veteran populations, yet it remains largely understudied in the Veteran's Health Administration (VHA) setting. The purpose of our study was to identify barriers to the effective management of obesity in VHA primary care settings.
Effect of using information from only one system for dually eligible health care users.	We sought to determine whether all diagnoses and total illness burden of patients who use both the VA and Medicare health care systems can be obtained from examination of data from only one of these systems.
Initial nontraumatic lower-extremity amputations among veterans with diabetes.	We sought to identify initial nontraumatic lower-extremity amputations (ILEAs) and compare rates of ILEAs with different coding algorithms and varying lengths of observation period prior (look-back) to the first observed amputation.
Development of a protocol for capillary blood glucose testing in nursing home and rehabilitation settings.	To develop an algorithm to standardize capillary blood glucose (CBG) testing in nursing home and rehabilitation patients.
Do US veterans wear appropriately sized shoes?: the Veterans Affairs shoe size selection study.	Poorly fitting footwear has frequently been cited as an etiologic factor in the pathway to diabetic foot ulceration. However, we are unaware of any reports in the medical literature specifically measuring shoe size versus foot size in this high-risk population. We assessed the prevalence of poorly fitting footwear in individuals with and without diabetic foot ulceration. We evaluated the shoe size of 440 consecutive patients (94.1% male; mean +/- SD age, 67.2 +/- 12.5 years) presenting to an interdisciplinary teaching clinic. Of this population, 58.4% were diagnosed as having diabetes, and 6.8% had active diabetic foot ulceration. Only 25.5% of the patients were wearing appropriately sized shoes. Individuals with diabetic foot ulceration were 5.1 times more likely to have poorly fitting shoes than those without a wound (93.3% versus 73.2%; odds ratio [OR], 5.1; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.2-21.9; P = .02). This association was also evident when assessing only the 32.3% of the total population with diabetes and loss of protective sensation (93.3% versus 75.0%; OR, 4.8; 95% CI, 1.1-20.9; P = .04). Poorly fitting shoes seem to be more prevalent in people with diabetic foot wounds than in those without wounds with or without peripheral neuropathy. This implies that appropriate meticulous screening for shoe-foot mismatches may be useful in reducing the risk of lower-extremity ulceration.
Agreement between patients with schizophrenia and providers on factors of antipsychotic medication adherence.	Medication adherence continues to be a challenge for patients with schizophrenia. Many interventions have been tested but not widely adopted. To fill this gap, this qualitative study examined patient and provider perspectives on barriers, facilitators, and motivators related to adherence.
Measuring outcomes of vision rehabilitation with the Veterans Affairs Low Vision Visual Functioning Questionnaire.	To evaluate the sensitivity to change, in patients who undergo vision rehabilitation, of the Veteran Affairs (VA) Low Vision Visual Functioning Questionnaire (LV VFQ-48), which was designed to measure the difficulty visually impaired persons have in performing daily activities and to evaluate vision rehabilitation outcomes.
Symptom severity and lifetime and prospective health service use among military veterans evaluated for PTSD.	We used structural equation modeling with 174 treatment-seeking military trauma survivors evaluated for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) at a VA Medical Center PTSD clinic to examine relationships among lifetime mental health service use, PTSD symptom severity and medical problems (from self-report), as well as prospective (1-year) mental health and medical care use visit counts extracted from medical records. We discovered an adequate statistical fit to a hypothesized model of previous and prospective health service use, and current PTSD severity and health-related problems. Previous inpatient mental health treatment was significantly related to PTSD severity and prospective outpatient mental health use. However, PTSD severity was unrelated to prospective use of mental health or medical services. Health problems were related to prospective medical service use. Clinical and administrative implications in predicting health care use among trauma survivors are discussed.
A cognitive task analysis of information management strategies in a computerized provider order entry environment.	Computerized Provider Order Entry (CPOE) with electronic documentation, and computerized decision support dramatically changes the information environment of the practicing clinician. Prior work patterns based on paper, verbal exchange, and manual methods are replaced with automated, computerized, and potentially less flexible systems. The objective of this study is to explore the information management strategies that clinicians use in the process of adapting to a CPOE system using cognitive task analysis techniques.
Nursing leadership succession planning in Veterans Health Administration: creating a useful database.	An electronic database was developed for succession planning and placement of nursing leaders interested and ready, willing, and able to accept an assignment in a nursing leadership position. The tool is a 1-page form used to identify candidates for nursing leadership assignments. This tool has been deployed nationally, with access to the database restricted to nurse executives at every Veterans Health Administration facility for the purpose of entering the names of developed nurse leaders ready for a leadership assignment. The tool is easily accessed through the Veterans Health Administration Office of Nursing Service, and by limiting access to the nurse executive group, ensures candidates identified are qualified. Demographic information included on the survey tool includes the candidate's demographic information and other certifications/credentials. This completed information form is entered into a database from which a report can be generated, resulting in a listing of potential candidates to contact to supplement a local or Veterans Integrated Service Network wide position announcement. The data forms can be sorted by positions, areas of clinical or functional experience, training programs completed, and geographic preference. The forms can be edited or updated and/or added or deleted in the system as the need is identified. This tool allows facilities with limited internal candidates to have a resource with Department of Veterans Affairs prepared staff in which to seek additional candidates. It also provides a way for interested candidates to be considered for positions outside of their local geographic area.
Mental health, quality of life, and health functioning in women veterans: differential outcomes associated with military and civilian sexual assault.	The present study examined psychiatric, physical, and quality-of-life functioning in a sample of 270 women veterans receiving outpatient treatment at a Veterans Affairs medical center. Participants were interviewed regarding their civilian (CSA) and military sexual assault (MSA) histories, and data regarding quality of life and health outcomes were obtained through structured interviews and questionnaires. Women veterans with CSA histories reported significantly poorer physical, psychiatric, and quality-of-life functioning compared to those without a history of sexual assault. Furthermore, women veterans with an MSA history demonstrated additional negative consequences above and beyond the effects of CSA. The study sample was comparable to a national random sample of women veterans who access care in the Veterans Affairs healthcare system, increasing the generalizibility of the results.
Antihypertensive medication adherence in the Department of Veterans Affairs.	Adherence measures the extent to which patients take medications as prescribed by their health care provider. The control of hypertension is dependent on medication adherence and may vary on the basis of antihypertensive medication class and other factors.
Male breast cancer in the veterans affairs population: a comparative analysis.	The incidence of male breast cancer (MBC) continues to rise. The Veterans Affairs (VA) Central Cancer Registry (VACCR) provides a unique source for the study of MBC. The objective of this retrospective analysis was to compare the characteristics and outcome of patients with MBC and patients with female breast cancer (FBC) in the VA population.
Evaluation of a pharmacist-managed hepatitis C care clinic.	A description of an effort to create a more time, labor, and cost-efficient method for the management of patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) hospitals is provided; this pilot study also revealed the outcomes of a pharmacist-managed clinic for these patients in comparison to established standards of care.
Clinical practice guideline implementation strategy patterns in Veterans Affairs primary care clinics.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) mandated the system-wide implementation of clinical practice guidelines (CPGs) in the mid-1990s, arming all facilities with basic resources to facilitate implementation; despite this resource allocation, significant variability still exists across VA facilities in implementation success.
HIV testing of at risk patients in a large integrated health care system.	Early identification of HIV infection is critical for patients to receive life-prolonging treatment and risk-reduction counseling. Understanding HIV screening practices and barriers to HIV testing is an important prelude to designing successful HIV screening programs. Our objective was to evaluate current practice patterns for identification of HIV.
Gender differences in health care utilization among veterans with chronic pain.	Previous research reports that 48% of veterans regularly experience and express concern over pain. Outpatient service use is higher for veterans with pain than for veterans without pain. Our study objective was to identify differences in outpatient utilization between men and women veterans with chronic pain.
Comparing self-reported health status and diagnosis-based risk adjustment to predict 1- and 2 to 5-year mortality.	To compare the ability of two diagnosis-based risk adjustment systems and health self-report to predict short- and long-term mortality.
Delayed access to health care and mortality.	To measure the relationship between time spent waiting for health care services and patients' mortality.
Opioid receptor gene (OPRM1, OPRK1, and OPRD1) variants and response to naltrexone treatment for alcohol dependence: results from the VA Cooperative Study.	Pharmacotherapy of alcohol dependence (AD) is at an early stage of development; currently available medications have limited efficacy. It would be clinically valuable to identify, before initiation of a course of treatment, those patients who, based on genetic markers, are most likely to respond to a specific pharmacotherapy. A previous report suggested that a functional variant at the genetic locus encoding the mu opioid receptor (Asn40Asp) is such a marker, in short-term (3-month) treatment with the opioid-blocking drug naltrexone (NTX).
Predictors of a suicide attempt one year after entry into substance use disorder treatment.	The present study examined the patient intake and treatment-related risk factors associated with a suicide attempt in the 30 days before a 1-year posttreatment assessment.
Assessment of the reliability of data collected for the Department of Veterans Affairs national surgical quality improvement program.	The Office of the Medical Inspector of the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) studied the reliability of data collected by the VA's National Surgical Quality Improvement Program (NSQIP). The study focused on case selection bias, accuracy of reports on patients who died, and interrater reliability measurements of patient risk variables and outcomes.
Does implementation of evidence-based guidelines follow the available evidence? Implementation of hypertension guidelines at Veterans Affairs medical centers.	We sought to determine whether the proportion of strategies adopted in the implementation of evidence-based clinical guidelines by Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers (VAMCs) reflects an evidence-based assessment of the implementation strategies' relative effectiveness that was widely disseminated among VAMCs.
Oral health in Veterans Affairs patients diagnosed with serious mental illness.	We evaluated patient and medication treatment factors associated with self-reported oral health status in patients diagnosed with serious mental illness (SMI) in a large, national sample of patients in the Veterans Affairs (VA) health system.
Involvement in an outreach and residential treatment program for homeless mentally ill veterans.	Descriptive data derived from initial assessment interviews and from standardized 3-month progress reports are presented on 1684 homeless, chronically mentally ill veterans who were contacted at nine sites in a national Department of Veterans Affairs outreach program. Levels of involvement in the program were modest, with only 16% of those screened having over 10 clinical contacts and 24% still involved after 3 months. Demographic and clinical characteristics were weakly associated with continued involvement, but those admitted to residential treatment were 5.4 times more likely to be involved in the program than those not admitted. Admission to residential treatment appears to be the strongest determinant of clinical engagement of the homeless mentally ill.
Medical: informed consent--designate health care professionals to obtain informed consent. Final rule.	This document amends U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical regulations on informed consent. The final rule authorizes VA to designate additional categories of health care professionals to obtain the informed consent of patients or their surrogates for clinical treatment and procedures and to sign the consent form.
Schedule for rating disabilities; Appendices A, B, and C. Final rule.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is revising its Schedule for Rating Disabilities, Appendices A, B, and C to include all current diagnostic codes. Appendix A is also amended to include all the diagnostic code historical information since the last review.
Health service use and outcome: comparison of low charge, integrated, comprehensive services with usual health care.	We examined the effects of use of low charge, integrated and comprehensive health care services (Veterans Administration (VA) health care system) on health care service use and health-related outcomes. Data came from the 10-year (1986/87-1996/97) Duke Established Populations for Epidemiologic Studies of the Elderly, with 159 men aged 65-85 who primarily used VA health services compared with 1,100 men aged 65-85 who did not. In controlled analyses, no differences were found between the two groups on number of OTC medications used, or in speed or likelihood of entering a nursing home. However, veterans who primarily used the VA health care system reported more outpatient visits and prescription drugs, and increased likelihood of using an adjunct health care provider; entry into a hospital was quicker, and number of hospitalizations was greater. Although health status was controlled, because of eligibility requirements it remains possible that veterans were sicker. Nevertheless, no differences were found in health outcome (functional status or mortality). Readier access to better integrated health services appears to result in increased use of health services controlled by the health care provider, but not of services requiring the recipient's relocation, while functional status and mortality attained equivalence.
Adoption of a new technology in a Veterans Affairs national formulary system with local implementation: the insulin glargine example.	A study group gathered by the Pharmacy & Therapeutics Society reviewed data on the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) health care system's implementation of a new technology (insulin glargine) for patients with diabetes. It examined local implementation of VA criteria for nonformulary use of insulin glargine in 21 VA treatment facilities that were surveyed about the issue. The examination found differences in the use of insulin glargine across the 21 treatment facilities and in the approach to implementing the criteria for nonformulary use of insulin glargine used at the individual VA treatment facility level. Differences were identified regarding the respective roles of endocrinologists and PCPs in prescribing insulins, including insulin glargine. The study group urges further short- and long-term research to better understand the utilization, cost, and health outcome implications of the implementation process for the nonformulary criteria. Lessons learned from such research could benefit other health care systems and formulary committees.
Osteoarthritis: a comorbid marker for longer life?	Diseases are often described and studied in isolation, yet there is increasing recognition of the complex interrelatedness of diseases and treatments in patients with multiple chronic diseases. Our objective was to describe the impact of selected diseases involving chronic inflammation (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease [COPD], osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis) on mortality.
Unintended consequences of regionalizing specialized VA addiction services.	From 1995 to 2000 the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) dramatically reduced addiction treatment funding and regionalized specialized services to urban centers. By using New York State as an example, this study examined whether regionalization disproportionately affected rural versus urban veterans' use of VA and non-VA inpatient addiction services.
Integrating hepatitis prevention services into a substance use disorder clinic.	The Healthy Liver Program, established at the Minneapolis Veterans Affairs Medical Center Substance Use Disorder Clinic, provides screening for exposure to hepatitis infections, a group education class, and an individual nursing appointment to review screening results, give vaccinations for hepatitis A and hepatitis B, and make referrals to the hepatitis clinic as appropriate. A patient chart audit was completed 11 months after the establishment of the Healthy Liver Program. The attendance rate for the educational group and individual feedback sessions was 66.9%, with 94.1% of attendees accepting recommended hepatitis A and/or hepatitis B vaccinations. All patients with chronic hepatitis C who attended the Healthy Liver Program received a referral for evaluation in the hepatitis clinic, as compared with only 50% of patients with chronic hepatitis C who were identified before the establishment of the program. The importance of providing comprehensive educational sessions and recommendations for how patients with substance use disorders can access hepatitis screening, vaccination, and treatment resources are stressed.
Post-traumatic stress disorder and service utilization in a sample of service members from Iraq and Afghanistan.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate levels of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), depression, alcohol abuse, quality of life, and mental health service utilization among returnees from Operation Enduring Freedom and Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Veterans Affairs Health System and mental health treatment retention among patients with serious mental illness: evaluating accessibility and availability barriers.	We examine the impact of two dimensions of access-geographic accessibility and availability-on VA health system and mental health treatment retention among patients with serious mental illness (SMI).
Wanderers with cognitive impairment in Department of Veterans Affairs nursing home care units.	To explore the extent of and factors associated with male nursing home residents who wander.
Effect of the implementation of an enterprise-wide Electronic Health Record on productivity in the Veterans Health Administration.	Since 1995, the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) has had an ongoing process of systems improvement that has led to dramatic improvement in the quality of care delivered. A major component of the redesign of the VHA has been the creation of a fully developed enterprise-wide Electronic Health Record (EHR). VHA's Health Information Technology was developed in a collaborative fashion between local clinical champions and central software engineers. Successful national EHR implementation was achieved by 1999, since when the VHA has been able to increase its productivity by nearly 6 per cent per year.
Cost impact of diagnostic imaging for lower extremity peripheral vascular occlusive disease.	The evaluation of peripheral vascular disease in the primary care setting is routinely performed by contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (CE-MRA) and digital subtraction angiography (DSA). However, limited data are available on the relative costs and clinical outcomes following these diagnostic procedures. The objective of this study is to assess and compare costs associated with diagnostic imaging in peripheral vascular occlusive disease (PAOD).
Prospective randomized clinical trial of advanced cochlear implants: preliminary results of a Department of Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study.	This study is a randomized clinical trial to compare the efficacy and safety of one single-channel implant (the 3M/Vienna intracochlear device) and two multichannel cochlear implants (the Nucleus 22-channel device and the Smith & Nephew Richards Ineraid device). Seven Veterans Administration centers are participating in the study. The patient population consists of 82 veterans with postlingual, bilateral profound sensorineural hearing losses who obtain no benefit from amplification. All potential subjects were screened with a battery of audiologic tests. The three device groups are balanced on baseline patient characteristics. One month after operation, the devices were stimulated and programmed and the patients evaluated. Follow-up evaluations were completed at 3 and 12 months poststimulation and then annually until the end of the study. The 12-month data indicate that performance with the multichannel devices is superior to that with the single-channel device.
Adult day health care evaluation study: methodology and implementation. Adult Day Health Care Evaluation Development Group.	The Adult Day Health Care Evaluation Study was developed in response to a congressional mandate to study the medical efficacy and cost effectiveness of the Adult Day Health Care (ADHC) effort in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). Four sites providing ADHC in VA facilities are participating in an ongoing randomized controlled trial. Three years of developmental work prior to the study addressed methodological issues that were problematic in previous studies. This developmental work resulted in the methodological approaches described here: (1) a patient recruitment process that actively recruits and screens all potential candidates using empirically developed admission criteria based on predictors of nursing home placement in VA; (2) the selection and development of measures of medical efficacy that assess a wide range of patient and caregiver outcomes with sufficient sensitivity to detect small but clinically important changes; and (3) methods for detailed, accurate, and efficient measurement of utilization and costs of health care within and outside VA. These approaches may be helpful to other researchers and may advance the methodological sophistication of long-term care program evaluation.
The current status and future of VA research.	The VA Advisory Committee for Health Research Policy concluded that the health research aspect of departmental operations is vital to the VA's continued ability to provide high-quality health and medical care. The quality of VA-sponsored research in all areas remains high and on a par with that supported by the NIH and other governmental agencies sponsoring health research. Recent decreases in the financial support of VA research, however, have led to the unwise curtailment of VACO research staff support for this program, have reduced the number of approved projects that can be funded (though there has been a fourfold increase in the number of approved but unfunded projects), and are likely to reduce the attractiveness of VA employment for highly qualified physicians. In view of these findings, the committee recommended several steps that, if found feasible and taken soon, would both restore the long-standing stature of VA research and assure the attractiveness of VA careers for the many clinician-investigators upon whom the VA's quality of patient care necessarily depends.
Who is served by programs for the homeless? Admission to a domiciliary care program for homeless veterans.	Demographic and clinical data are presented on 4,138 veterans assessed in the 20-site Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) Domiciliary Care for Homeless Veterans program during its first year of operation. More than two-thirds of the veterans who were screened had been hospitalized in VA medical centers during the year before assessment, and 34 percent were hospitalized at the time of assessment. Compared with veterans who were not admitted for residential treatment, veterans who were admitted were more likely to be previously involved in mental health treatment, literally homeless rather than at risk for homelessness, and without public financial support. Specialized service programs for the homeless such as the VA domiciliary care program may also be called on to play a broader role in the discharge and rehabilitative efforts of public mental health service systems.
Kaiser/VA/DoD partnership piloting a nationwide EHR network.	Sharing of relevant medical data can help prevent potentially deadly drug interactions. Storing all information in a single EHR network can be a big time-saver for providers. Using an outside vendor can help ensure objective measurement of outcomes.
Perceived racial discrimination in health care and its association with patients' healthcare experiences: does the measure matter?	Examine whether three measures of perceived racial discrimination in health care detect similar rates of discrimination and show similar associations with patients' healthcare experiences.
A checklist to identify inpatient suicide hazards in veterans affairs hospitals.	Approximately 1,500 suicides take place in inpatient hospital units in the United States each year. This study, the first of its kind, examines the implementation and effectiveness of using a standardized checklist for mental health units to improve patient safety in a large health care system.
Attitudes among Department of Veterans Affairs pharmacists toward postgraduate education and training.	The results of a survey of the attitudes of Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) pharmacists toward postgraduate education and training are reported. In January 1990 an anonymous questionnaire was mailed to 800 randomly selected VA pharmacists. The mailing occurred one month after the announcement of new policies for recruiting and retaining VA pharmacists that allow salaries to be determined on the basis of education, job responsibilities, publishing, and other professional activities and accomplishments. Recipients were asked to provide educational and demographic data, information on their work settings and job responsibilities, and their perceptions of the benefits of and barriers to additional education and training. Of the 800 questionnaires mailed, 310 (38.8%) usable responses were received. The majority (77%) of the pharmacists held B.S. degrees only. One-day to one-week training programs had been attended by 74.5% of the respondents; at least 61.6% desired to attend such programs, and many indicated the desire to attend longer training programs. Some 48.3% of the B.S.-level pharmacists had expressed an interest in earning another pharmacy-related degree. More than 40% of the respondents saw time, money, and the location of programs as barriers. Perceived benefits included personal development, enhanced job satisfaction, and improved patient care; only 1.9% perceived no benefit. Seventy-seven percent believed that salary should reflect the level of professional training. VA pharmacists desire additional education and training and believe that such programs may enhance patient care and reduce staff turnover.
Epidemiology of inflammatory bowel disease among U.S. military veterans.	The Department of Veterans Affairs maintains a computerized patient treatment file that contains all records from veterans treated as inpatients in VA hospitals distributed throughout the United States. Using the patient treatment files from 1986 to 1989, the present study takes advantage of this large national data set to examine demographic and geographic associations of inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammatory bowel disease tended to affect predominantly female, white, and younger veterans, these trends being more marked in cases of Crohn's disease than ulcerative colitis. Hospital discharges secondary to both Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis appeared to be more frequent in veterans from northern than southern parts of the United States, but did not show a seasonal variation different from the general pattern of all other diagnoses. The results in veterans confirm observations made in other studies and suggest that inflammatory bowel disease among different populations is modulated by similar pathophysiologic mechanisms and environmental risk factors.
Health care delivery restructuring and productivity change: assessing the Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISNs) using the Malmquist approach.	This study evaluates the productivity changes for the Veterans Integrated Service Networks (VISNs) that the Veterans Health Administration (VHA) created, comparing performance in 1994 with that in 2004. This represents periods before and after the VHA in 1995 reconfigured provider units into 21 regionalized delivery systems and engaged in other important system innovations. Productivity is measured using the Malmquist Index approach (a longitudinal version of the data envelopment analysis [DEA]). Results indicate that the VISN restructuring generally produced improvements in overall productivity (Malmquist scores) and in VISN adaptations to structural/technological change. They also show that the VISNs overall did not produce "changes in efficiency," reflecting challenges they may have faced in making "technical change" through management adaptations. The findings are consistent with what would be expected, given the major changes that did occur within the VHA in recent years as well as the before and after design used in this study.
Meeting vaccination quality measures for hepatitis A and B virus in patients with chronic hepatitis C infection.	Coinfection with hepatitis A virus (HAV) or hepatitis B virus (HBV) in patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. The Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services has identified HAV and HBV vaccination as a priority area for quality measurement in HCV. It is unclear to what extent patients with HCV meet these recommendations. We used national data from the Department of Veterans Affairs HCV Clinical Case Registry to evaluate the prevalence and predictors of meeting the quality measure (QM) of receiving vaccination or documented immunity to HAV and HBV in patients with chronic HCV. We identified 88,456 patients who had overall vaccination rates of 21.9% and 20.7% for HBV and HAV, respectively. The QM rates were 57.0% and 45.5% for HBV and HAV, respectively. Patients who were nonwhite or who had elevated alanine aminotransferase levels, cirrhosis, or human immunodeficiency virus were more likely to meet the HBV QM. Factors related to HCV care were also determinants of meeting the HBV QM. These factors included receiving a specialist consult, genotype testing, or HCV treatment. Patients who were older, had psychosis, and had a higher comorbidity score were less likely to meet the HBV QM. With a few exceptions, similar variables were related to meeting the HAV QM. The incidence of superinfection with acute HBV and HAV was low, but it was significantly lower in patients who received vaccination than in those who did not.
Genome-wide linkage screen for systolic blood pressure in the Veterans Administration Genetic Epidemiology Study (VAGES) of Mexican-Americans and confirmation of a major susceptibility locus on chromosome 6q14.1.	Hypertension or high blood pressure is a strong correlate of diseases such as obesity and type 2 diabetes. We conducted a genome-wide linkage screen to identify susceptibility genes influencing systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) in Mexican-Americans from the Veterans Administration Genetic Epidemiology Study (VAGES).
Reduction of central line infections in Veterans Administration intensive care units: an observational cohort using a central infrastructure to support learning and improvement.	Elimination of hospital-acquired infections is an important patient safety goal.
Seasonal influenza vaccination of healthcare employees: results of a 4-year campaign.	To document successful substantial increases in healthcare worker influenza vaccination rates and to identify reasons for success and failure.
Job characteristics and job satisfaction among physicians involved with research in the veterans health administration.	Research conducted by physicians generates knowledge and has led to important advances and changes in the health care system. Physician retention is a concern facing many health care systems, and job satisfaction and attitudes play a role in retention. This study examined whether physicians who are involved with research have greater job satisfaction and more positive job characteristics perceptions.
Correlation of inpatient and outpatient measures of stroke care quality within veterans health administration hospitals.	Quality of care delivered in the inpatient and ambulatory settings may be correlated within an integrated health system such as the Veterans Health Administration. We examined the correlation between stroke care quality at hospital discharge and within 6 months postdischarge.
Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment and depression are associated with poststroke mortality.	Studies generally do not examine patients' prestroke depression diagnoses and treatments.
Commentary: building human capital: discovery, learning, and professional satisfaction.	Physician satisfaction is an important contributor to a well-functioning health system. Mohr and Burgess report that physicians in the Veterans Health Administration (VA) who spend time in research have greater overall job satisfaction, that satisfaction tracks with aggregate facility research funding, and that satisfaction is higher among physicians working in VA facilities located on the same campus or within walking distance of an affiliated medical school. An environment conducive to research therefore not only advances science but also seems to be a key element of physician satisfaction. In addition to advancing scientific discovery and promoting greater physician satisfaction, these findings suggest that an environment of discovery and learning may yield benefits beyond specific academic endeavors and contribute more broadly to supporting health system performance.
Use of the Case Western Reserve/Veterans Administration neuroprosthesis for exercise, standing and transfers by a paraplegic subject.	Functional electric stimulation (FES) is a technology that may allow patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) to transfer stand and walk. This paper reports upon the use of the Case Western Reserve Neuroprosthesis by a T6 ASIA B paraplegic subject. The subject was able to stand for two minutes and 50 seconds. He could walk 35 feet with a swing to gait. Measurement of energy consumption showed that metabolic demand was only 2.1 metabolic equivalent units. The factors that limited the use of the device that need to be improved to make the technology practical for household or community ambulation are speed (5.8 m/min) of ambulation and fatigue of the stimulated muscles.
Reasons for underuse of recommended therapies for colorectal and lung cancer in the Veterans Health Administration.	Many studies have documented low rates of effective cancer therapies, particularly in older or minority populations. However, little is known about why effective therapies are underused in these populations.
Implementation of the Department of Veterans Affairs' first point-of-care clinical trial.	The Massachusetts Veterans Epidemiology Research and Information Center in collaboration with the Stanford Center for Innovative Study Design set out to test the feasibility of a new method of evidence generation. The first pilot of a point-of-care clinical trial (POCCT), adding randomization and other study processes to an electronic medical record (EMR) system, was launched to compare the effectiveness of two insulin regimens.
Prevalence of alcohol misuse among men and women undergoing major noncardiac surgery in the Veterans Affairs health care system.	Patients who screen positive for alcohol misuse on the Alcohol Use Disorder Identification Test Consumption Questionnaire (AUDIT-C 5 points) have significantly increased postoperative complications. Severe alcohol misuse (AUDIT-C 9 points) is associated with increased postoperative health care use; however, little is known about the prevalence of alcohol misuse in demographic and clinical subgroups of surgical patients.
Eight-year trends of cardiometabolic morbidity and mortality in patients with schizophrenia.	We examined cardiometabolic disease and mortality over 8 years among individuals with and without schizophrenia.
Effects of oral bisphosphonate therapy on serum calcium in elderly veterans with poor kidney function.	Limited data exist on the use of bisphosphonates in patients with poor kidney function due to a contraindication derived from inadequate experience among patients with kidney failure, accounting for as much as 25% of nonprescribing when otherwise appropriate.
Psychopathology, Iraq and Afghanistan service, and suicide among Veterans Health Administration patients.	Despite concerns regarding elevated psychiatric morbidity and suicide among veterans returning from Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom (OEF/OIF), little is known about the impact of psychiatric conditions on the risk of suicide in these veterans. To inform tailored suicide prevention efforts, it is important to assess interrelationships between OEF/OIF status, psychiatric morbidity, and suicide mortality. This study sought to examine potential associations between OEF/OIF status and suicide mortality among individuals receiving care in the Department of Veterans Affairs health system, the Veterans Health Administration (VHA). Analyses assessed potential interactions between OEF/OIF status and psychiatric conditions as predictors of suicide.
Influence of patient age and comorbid burden on clinician attitudes toward heart failure guidelines.	Clinical practice guidelines have been criticized for insufficient attention to the unique needs of patients of advanced age and with multiple comorbid conditions. However, little empiric research is available to inform this topic.
Facilitators and barriers to clinical practice guideline use among nurses.	Clinical practice guidelines, which are designed to encourage consistent, efficient applications of scientific evidence in the daily practice of clinicians, are often underutilized. The majority of research concerning their implementation and use has focused on the work of physicians; more research concerning their use by nurses is needed.
Cancer incidence among patients of the U.S. Veterans Affairs Health Care System.	Approximately 40,000 incident cancer cases are reported in the Veterans Affairs Central Cancer Registry (VACCR) annually (approximately 3% of U.S. cancer cases). Our objective was to provide the first comprehensive description of cancer incidence as reported in VACCR.
Warning signs for suicide within a week of healthcare contact in Veteran decedents.	This study examined warning signs for suicide observed in the final day(s) of life in Veteran decedents who received healthcare from Veterans Health Administration (VHA) (N=381), using data obtained from detailed chart reviews.
Levels and variation in overuse of fecal occult blood testing in the Veterans Health Administration.	Policy-makers have called for efforts to reduce overuse of cancer screening tests, including colorectal cancer screening (CRCS). Overuse of CRCS tests other than colonoscopy has not been well documented.
The role of patients' explanatory models and daily-lived experience in hypertension self-management.	Uncontrolled hypertension remains a significant problem for many patients. Few interventions to improve patients' hypertension self-management have had lasting effects. Previous work has focused largely on patients' beliefs as predictors of behavior, but little is understood about beliefs as they are embedded in patients' social contexts.
Perioperative processes and outcomes after implementation of a hospitalist-run preoperative clinic.	A structured, medical preoperative evaluation may positively impact the perioperative course of medically complex patients. Hospitalists are in a unique position to assist in preoperative evaluations, given their expertise with inpatient medicine and postoperative surgical consultation.
Warfarin-antibiotic interactions in older adults of an outpatient anticoagulation clinic.	Several classes of drugs, such as antibiotics, may interact with warfarin to cause an increase in warfarins anticoagulant activity and the clinical relevance of warfarin-antibiotic interactions in older adults is not clear.
Veterans health administration information systems as a resource for rare disorders research: Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease as a paradigm.	To illustrate the application of Veterans Health Administration (VHA) information systems in both clinical and epidemiologic investigations of a rare disease, our specific aims were: (1) to determine the number and incidence of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) diagnoses in the VHA from fiscal year (FY) 1997 through FY 2010 and (2) to describe the relevant clinical features associated with those diagnoses.
Outpatient follow-up after psychiatric hospitalization for depression and later readmission and treatment adequacy.	The study evaluated whether timely postdischarge follow-up, a health system quality indicator, corresponded with improved longer-term posthospital care for depression.
Outcome of a randomized study of a mental health peer education and support group in the VA.	Study objectives were to compare mental health outcomes of a peer-led recovery group, a clinician-led recovery group, and usual treatment and to examine the effect of group attendance on outcomes.
Contracts and provider agreements for State home nursing home care. Interim final rule.	This interim final rule amends Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) regulations to allow VA to enter into contracts or provider agreements with State homes for the nursing home care of certain disabled veterans. This rulemaking is required to implement a change in law that revises how VA will pay for care provided to these veterans and authorizes VA to use provider agreements to pay for such care. The change made by this law applies to all care provided to these veterans in State homes on and after February 2, 2013.
Dual time point positron emission tomography/computed tomography scan in evaluation of intrathoracic lesions in an area endemic for histoplasmosis and with high prevalence of sarcoidosis.	We explored the role of dual time point fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography/computed tomography (DTP PET/CT) scan in the differentiation of benign and malignant lung and mediastinal lesions.
"MOVE!" Outcomes of a weight loss program modified for veterans with serious mental illness.	Veterans with serious mental illness are at increased risk of obesity, sedentary lifestyle, and a host of related chronic diseases. Although evidence suggests that lifestyle interventions can help mental health consumers achieve modest weight loss, several studies have failed to show a benefit and most have concluded that significant challenges remain in delivering effective interventions. In 2006, the Veterans Health Administration introduced MOVE!, a weight management program that includes behaviorally based dietary and physical activity self-management support. This article describes modifications used to manualize MOVE! for veterans with serious mental illness and reports findings from a randomized controlled trial of the new intervention.
Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center: program overview and research initiatives.	For more than 16 years, the Defense and Veterans Brain Injury Center (at one time known is the Defense and Veterans Head Injury Program) has served to develop and disseminate clinical guidelines and undertake innovative clinical research initiatives and educational programs to serve active duty personnel, their dependents, and veterans with traumatic brain injury (TBI). Through educational initiatives and collaboration with civilian institution, the center is ensuring that critical discoveries surrounding TBI prevention, screening, and treatment are made available to preserve and improve the health of those within and outside the military health system.
Predictors of long-term mortality after severe sepsis in the elderly.	Mortality rates after severe sepsis are extremely high, and the main focus of most research is short-term mortality, which may not be associated with long-term outcomes. The purpose of this study was to examine long-term mortality after a severe sepsis and identify factors associated with this mortality.
Apolipoprotein-defined and NMR lipoprotein subclasses in the veterans affairs diabetes trial.	The VADT was a randomized clinical trial designed to assess the effect of intensive vs. standard glucose management on cardiovascular events in Type 2 diabetes. At the end of the study, intensive management failed to improve outcomes. We performed plasma lipoprotein subclass analyses to yield new information on the effects of study randomization on cardiovascular risk.
The patient-centered medical home in the Veterans Health Administration.	The Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is the largest integrated US health system to implement the patient-centered medical home. The Patient Aligned Care Team (PACT) initiative (implemented 2010-2014) aims to achieve team based care, improved access, and care management for more than 5 million primary care patients nationwide.
Comprehensive survey of hand hygiene measurement and improvement practices in the Veterans Health Administration.	Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is a national health care system with variation in hand hygiene (HH) measurement and improvement practices across its facilities. The objective of this national survey was to characterize this variability and identify opportunities for standardization.
Use of group treatment among case managers in Department of Veterans Affairs supported housing program.	Because the predominant supported housing model includes individual intensive community-based case management, use of group treatments in supported housing has not been adequately studied. This study examined practices and attitudes about groups among case managers in the Department of Housing and Urban Development-Department of Veterans Affairs Supportive Housing (HUD-VASH) program. We examined national administrative HUD-VASH data and an online survey of case managers from eight sites in the New England region, where dissemination of a new group-based model is in progress. Compared with other sites nationally, sites in the New England region had more group contacts, possibly reflecting the dissemination project. Among the New England sites (n = 8), administrative data showed that a higher percentage of group contacts was associated with a greater number of clients served and with more contacts per client. Although case manager survey data (n = 55) showed generally positive attitudes about using groups, particularly about the potential effectiveness of groups and peer support, greater reported use of groups was not associated with more positive attitudes about groups. These findings suggest providing group treatments in supported housing programs may help case managers stay connected to clients and case managers appear receptive to using groups, though further research is needed. 
An examination of racial differences in process and outcome of colorectal cancer care quality among users of the veterans affairs health care system.	Veterans Affairs (VA) manages the largest US integrated health care system. Although quality of VA colorectal cancer (CRC) care is well chronicled, there is a paucity of research examining racial differences in this care. This study examines racial differences in 2 dimensions of quality of VA CRC care: processes (time to treatment) and outcomes (survival).
Meeting the continuing education needs of rural mental health providers.	Historically, mental health clinicians at Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) community-based outpatient clinics (CBOCs) have not had the same access to continuing education (CE) as providers at VA medical centers. Mental health clinicians at CBOCs desire an opportunity for VA-sponsored CE, especially on topics and issues pertinent to rural mental healthcare.
Primary care provider and imaging technician satisfaction with a teledermatology project in rural Veterans Health Administration clinics.	Assessment of a multisite rural teledermatology project between 2009 and 2012 in four Pacific Northwest states that trained primary care providers and imaging technicians in state-of-the-art techniques of telemedicine.
Expanded HIV testing in the US Department of Veterans Affairs, 2009-2011.	We measured HIV testing and seropositivity among veterans in Veterans Affairs (VA) care for calendar years 2009 through 2011 and analyzed 2011 results by patient demographics.
Suicide mortality following nursing home discharge in the Department of Veterans Affairs health system.	We assessed suicide rates up to 6 months following discharge from US Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) nursing homes.
Implementation of a nontraditional postgraduate year 1 pharmacy residency program.	The development and implementation of a nontraditional pharmacy residency program at a Veterans Affairs medical center (VAMC) are described.
Veterans Affairs methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus prevention initiative associated with a sustained reduction in transmissions and health care-associated infections.	Implementation of a methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) Prevention Initiative was associated with significant declines in MRSA transmission and MRSA health care-associated infection rates in Veterans Affairs acute care facilities nationwide in the 33-month period from October 2007 through June 2010. Here, we show continuing declines in MRSA transmissions (P = .004 for trend, Poisson regression) and MRSA health care-associated infections (P < .001) from July 2010 through June 2012. The Veterans Affairs Initiative was associated with these effects, sustained over 57 months, in a large national health care system.
Military sexual assault and homeless women veterans: clinical correlates and treatment preferences.	Both homeless women and women who have experienced military sexual assault (MSA) are at high risk of serious psychological sequelae. However, little is known about the combined impact of MSA and current homelessness on psychological distress, or about distinctive treatment preferences among homeless female veterans affected by MSA.
Associations between childbirth and women veterans' VA and non-VA Hospitalizations for major diagnostic categories.	Women Veterans enrolled in Veterans Affairs (VA) health care almost always use non-VA hospitals for childbirth, making it more likely they will use non-VA hospitals for other needs, as well. We compared VA and non-VA hospitalizations obtained by VA enrollees in seven states from 2004 through 2007 to determine whether women aged 18 to 44 were more likely to use VA or non-VA care for diagnoses in certain major categories, and how this use differed between women who did or did not have any pregnancy/childbirth admissions during the 4 years. We found that women were hospitalized much more in non-VA than in VA hospitals, though they were relatively more likely to use VA hospitals for mental illness, digestive system diseases, and neoplasms than other diagnoses. Women who gave birth during the time interval had very few VA admissions for any diagnosis, and compared to other women they were also less likely to be hospitalized for mental health or cancer, but more likely to be hospitalized for infectious and parasitic diseases. VA hospitals were used more by women who were slightly older, sicker, poorer, and living nearer to them. VA-using women tend to have different and greater medical needs than those having children. 
Communication enhancement and best practices for co-managing dual care rural Veteran patients by VA and non-VA providers: a survey study.	Many rural Veteran patients receive healthcare services from both Veterans Affairs (VA) and non-VA providers. Effective management of dual care Veteran patients to ensure the best clinical outcomes is a VA mission. The previous VA studies indicate that coordination between VA and non-VA providers has been lacking for dual care management of Veteran patients. In this study, we propose that VA proactively shares information with non-VA providers to enhance the communication process and identify the best practices to be carried out by both VA and non-VA providers for better coordination. Structured questionnaires are designed and distributed to VA and non-VA providers to obtain their evaluations on the proposed VA proactive information sharing approaches and the best practice items for dual care management. The non-VA provider respondents largely support the proposed proactive sharing items by VA, with the lowest average score being 3.96 out of a 5.0 scale on one item. In terms of the best practice items on co-managing dual care patients, three out of five items are overall rated higher than 4.0 from both sides. A pair-wise comparison between VA and non-VA perspectives further shows that the difference in average ratings of a proposed item could be significant. For such best practice items, the implementations from both sides may not be most effective. 
Metabolic syndrome is associated with type II endoleak after endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.	Type II endoleak is usually a benign finding after endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR). In some patients, however, type II endoleak leads to aneurysm sac expansion and the need for further intervention. We examined which factors, in particular the components of metabolic syndrome (MetS), would lead to an increase risk of endoleak after EVAR.
Outcome and clinical significance of delayed endoleaks after endovascular aneurysm repair.	Endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) is considered the standard therapy for most patients with abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA). Endoleak is a well-known EVAR-related complication that requires long-term follow-up. However, patient follow-up is often challenging outside clinical trials. We sought to evaluate the incidence and the effect of delayed endoleaks in a Veterans Administration (VA) health care system where long-term follow-up is ensured.
Multiple myeloma and other malignancies: a pilot study from the Houston VA.	The prognosis of multiple myeloma (MM) has improved in recent years. Therefore, second malignant neoplasms (SMNs) may become an issue for longer term survivors with MM. An increased incidence of second malignancies was reported in patients who received lenalidomide for relapsed or refractory myeloma.
Night and day in the VA: associations between night shift staffing, nurse workforce characteristics, and length of stay.	In hospitals, nurses provide patient care around the clock, but the impact of night staff characteristics on patient outcomes is not well understood. The aim of this study was to examine the association between night nurse staffing and workforce characteristics and the length of stay (LOS) in 138 veterans affairs (VA) hospitals using panel data from 2002 through 2006. Staffing in hours per patient day was higher during the day than at night. The day nurse workforce had more educational preparation than the night workforce. Nurses' years of experience at the unit, facility, and VA level were greater at night. In multivariable analyses controlling for confounding variables, higher night staffing and a higher skill mix were associated with reduced LOS.
A new laboratory-based algorithm to predict development of hepatocellular carcinoma in patients with hepatitis C and cirrhosis.	Serum levels of -fetoprotein (AFP) are influenced not only by the presence of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but also by the underlying severity and activity of liver disease, which is reflected by liver function tests. We constructed an AFP-based algorithm that included these factors to identify patients at risk for HCC, and tested its predictive ability in a large set of patients with cirrhosis.
Changes in implementation of two evidence-based psychotherapies for PTSD in VA residential treatment programs: a national investigation.	There has been little investigation of the natural course of evidence-based treatments (EBTs) over time following the draw-down of initial implementation efforts. Thus, we undertook qualitative interviews with the providers at 38 U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs' residential treatment programs for posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) to understand implementation and adaptation of 2 EBTs, prolonged exposure (PE), and cognitive processing therapy (CPT), at 2 time points over a 4-year period. The number of providers trained in the therapies and level of training improved over time. At baseline, of the 179 providers eligible per VA training requirements, 65 (36.4%) had received VA training in PE and 111 (62.0%) in CPT with 17 (9.5%) completing case consultation or becoming national trainers in both PE and CPT. By follow-up, of the increased number of 190 eligible providers, 87 (45.8%) had received VA training in PE and 135 (71.1%) in CPT, with 69 (36.3%) and 81 (42.6%) achieving certification, respectively. Twenty-two programs (57.9%) reported no change in PE use between baseline and follow-up, whereas 16 (42.1%) reported an increase. Twenty-four (63.2%) programs reported no change in their use of CPT between baseline and follow-up, 12 (31.6%) programs experienced an increase, and 2 (5.2%) programs experienced a decrease in use. A significant number of providers indicated that they made modifications to the manuals (e.g., tailoring, lengthening). Reasons for adaptations are discussed. The need to dedicate time and resources toward the implementation of EBTs is noted. 
Obesity-related health status changes and weight-loss treatment utilization.	Behavioral weight-loss treatment can improve health, yet it is underutilized. Factors leading to initiation of weight-loss treatment are not well characterized. In particular, it is unknown whether changes in obesity-related health status contribute to weight-loss treatment initiation.
Preoperative identification of patients likely to have left ventricular dysfunction after aortic valve replacement. Participants in the Veterans Administration Cooperative Study on Valvular Heart Disease.	The purpose of this study was to identify preoperative and intraoperative variables predictive of left ventricular dysfunction 6 months after aortic valve replacement. Patients were considered to have postoperative left ventricular dysfunction if the end-diastolic-volume index was greater than or equal to 101 ml/m2 or if the ejection fraction was less than or equal to 0.50. Data from 180 patients entered into the Veterans Administration Cooperative Study on Valvular Heart Disease who had technically satisfactory cardiac catheterizations 6 months postoperatively were analyzed by a series of univariate and multivariate analyses. For the 88 patients with preoperative aortic stenosis, the most powerful predictor of postoperative left ventricular dysfunction in the final multivariate model was preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction (p = 0.0001), followed by preoperative myocardial infarction (p = 0.012), aortic valve gradient (p = 0.020), and incomplete coronary revascularization (p = 0.059). Abnormal preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction had a sensitivity of 72% and a specificity of 82% in identifying patients with postoperative left ventricular dysfunction. Preoperative left ventricular systolic-volume index greater than or equal to 40 ml/m2 had a similar sensitivity and specificity (79% and 84%, respectively). For the 36 patients with aortic regurgitation, preoperative left ventricular ejection fraction was again the most powerful predictor of postoperative left ventricular dysfunction (p = 0.013), followed by left ventricular systolic pressure (p = 0.038) and arteriovenous oxygen difference (p = 0.054). For the 56 patients with mixed aortic stenosis and regurgitation, left ventricular systolic pressure (p = 0.007) and preoperative myocardial infarction (p = 0.022) were the variables predictive of postoperative left ventricular dysfunction. Although many patients with preoperative left ventricular dysfunction experience improved left ventricular performance after aortic valve replacement, performance does not always return to normal. For patients with either aortic stenosis or regurgitation, the strongest predictor of postoperative left ventricular dysfunction is preoperative dysfunction. These data support the concept that patients with moderate or severe aortic stenosis or regurgitation should be operated on before the onset of significant left ventricular dysfunction.
Using family consultation as psychiatric aftercare for schizophrenic patients.	The families of 14 schizophrenic patients who were recently discharged from a Veterans Administration hospital received periodic consultation in their homes from members of a clinical team. The visiting clinicians educated the families and the patients about community resources, consulted with them about interpersonal problems, and were available for crisis intervention following the last scheduled visit. Three months and one year after their discharge, the patients were compared on various measures of outcome with a control group of 22 similar patients whose families did not receive periodic consultation. At the three-month follow-up, patients whose families received consultation had spent significantly fewer days in the hospital than had the control patients, but the difference was not significant at one-year follow-up. They also rated themselves significantly higher on the Vets Adjustment Scale at both the three-month and one-year follow-ups. The authors interpret the results in light of other studies of after-care interventions.
Veterans Administration Cooperative Dental Implant Study--comparisons between fixed partial dentures supported by blade-vent implants and removable partial dentures. Part I: Methodology and comparisons between treatment groups at baseline.	This study was conducted to determine whether fixed partial dentures supported by dental implants provide an acceptable alternative to conventional removable partial dentures in patients with Kennedy class I or class II edentulous conditions. The acceptability of the new treatment will be based on success rates, impact on the health of the remaining dentition, masticatory performance, patient satisfaction, and maintenance care and cost. The study was planned also to provide comparisons between two designs commonly used by dentists for fabricating removable partial dentures. The designs differed only in terms of the type of the retainer (clasp type) and tooth support (rest location). A total of 272 patients with Kennedy class I and class II edentulous conditions were assigned on a random basis to one of the treatment groups, 134 to receive a removable partial denture and 138 a fixed partial denture supported by a blade-vent implant. All of the patients were medically screened and met prespecified criteria for oral hygiene, bone support for abutment teeth, and size of the residual ridge. Thirty-four patients were eliminated from the study before completion of their treatment. An additional six patients with early implant failures were reentered in the study and followed up as a separate group. The remaining 232 patients received comprehensive dental care, including removable partial dentures for 118 and fixed partial dentures for 114 patients. A series of examinations, radiographs, masticatory performance tests, patient satisfaction, food selection questionnaires, and dietary history were completed before initiation of the treatment, 16 weeks after the insertion of an RPD or an implant, and thereafter at 6-, 18-, 36-, and 60-month intervals. In addition, patients were seen at 6-month intervals for a recall dental examination, oral prophylaxis, plaque instructions, radiographic survey of the implant, and any needed dental treatment. The randomization stratification approach produced two treatment groups with comparable age, number of remaining maxillary and mandibular teeth, type of opposing dentition, and percent of patients with Kennedy class I and class II edentulous conditions. The mean scores of bone support, tooth mobility, and sulcular depths of abutment teeth were also similar. Significant but comparable improvements in oral hygiene and sulcular depth occurred in the two groups after treatment. The periodontal health scores at the 16-week interval serve as the baseline to measure subsequent changes in periodontal health.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Sequential hospitalwide outbreaks of resistant Serratia and Klebsiella infections.	Late in 1973 at the Nashville Veterans Administration Hospital, an intrusion of Serratia marcescens infections that were resistant to gentamicin sulfate and other antimicrobial agents occurred. This abated somewhat, only to be superseded by another wave of multiply-resistant infections due to Klebsiella pneumoniae beginning in the spring of 1974. Approximately 400 patients had substantial infections with these organisms during the 2 1/4 year period, imposing considerable morbidity and mortality. Due to the serious and lasting impact that these events imposed on patient care in our hospital, we sought explanations for the sequential infectious outbreaks. Both may have arisen because of the same persisting pressures favoring prevalence of multidrug-resistant bacteria. Indirect evidence including the sequential order of the outbreaks, similarity of antibiotograms, transferable multiple drug resistance from Serratia to Klebsiella, and possession of approximately equal molecular weight plasmids supported the notion that the two outbreaks were causally related.
Stress symptomatology among Vietnam veterans. Analysis of the Veterans Administration Survey of Veterans. II.	In 1979, the US Veterans Administration conducted a health survey of 11,230 veterans. The present analysis of these data focuses on the association between Vietnam service and combat experience with eight post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms among the 1,787 Vietnam era veterans who entered military service between 1965 and 1975. The advantages of this study are that it includes a large random sample selected from the total US population, had a high interview response rate (93%), and collected data prior to the recent public controversy surrounding the issue of the health effects of possible exposure of Vietnam veterans to Agent Orange. After adjustment for the potential confounding effects of military service and demographic factors, the level of combat exposure was significantly associated with all eight symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder in a dose response pattern. For seven of the eight symptoms, a twofold increase in the factor-adjusted prevalence odds ratio was observed when non-Vietnam service veterans were compared with Vietnam veterans who experienced the most intense combat experience. Being younger, less well educated, or nonwhite at the time of military service are factors which independently further increased the probability of stress symptoms.
Coordinating center follow-up in the Veterans Administration Cooperative Study of Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery.	In the VA Cooperative Study of Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery, follow-up by the participating investigators was completed in 1984 and annual centralized follow-up by the coordinating center for an additional 5 years was initiated in 1985. Follow-up was restricted to key outcomes that could be reliably obtained in most patients-survival, severity of angina, myocardial infarction and bypass surgery. Ninety-five percent of patients consented to annual follow-up by telephone or mail. At the first annual follow-up, 95% of all survivors were contacted; 95% were also contacted at the second follow-up. In the initial follow-up, survival status was known in all patients and severity of angina was recorded in 93% of survivors; all bypass operations and all but one infarct identified were documented by a discharge summary. Our results indicate that coordinating center follow-up was effective in a long-term study of a chronic disease and depended on the willingness of patients to participate, the experience of the interviewers, and the ability of the coordinating center to contact patients and retrieve outcome data. This report describes the methods used for the centralized follow-up of the surviving patients and summarizes the initial follow-up results. The limitations and advantages of this approach are also discussed.
Complications of chronic indwelling urinary catheters among male nursing home patients: a prospective study.	We studied prospectively the incidence of symptomatic infections of presumed urinary tract origin requiring antimicrobial therapy among 54 male nursing home patients with chronic indwelling bladder catheters. During 514 patient-months at risk there were 106 episodes of symptomatic infection, for an incidence of 0.21 per patient-month at risk. Of the patients 80 per cent had at least 1 episode and 48 per cent had 2 or more. None of the clinical factors we examined, including age, nutritional status, stool incontinence, diabetes mellitus, episodes of catheter blockage and the use of chronic suppressant antimicrobial therapy, was associated with the development of symptomatic infection. Further research on host and pathogen-related factors that increase the risk for symptomatic infection, and improvements in infection control and catheter care protocols are necessary to decrease catheter-associated morbidity among male nursing home patients who must be managed by chronic indwelling catheterization.
Two-stage skin testing for tuberculosis in a domiciliary population.	We scheduled two-stage skin testing for tuberculosis with Candida and mumps controls on 618 residents of our domiciliary unit at the Veterans Administration Medical Center, Johnson City, Tennessee. Of the 618 residents in the unit, 30 (4.8%) were not available for evaluation, 77 (13%) had a prior history of active tuberculosis or positive skin test, and 1 resident refused testing. Of these 510 patients who received first-step testing with purified protein derivative (PPD), 153 (30%) had greater than to 10 mm induration. Those patients with less than 10 mm induration had a repeat PPD 2 wk later. Fifty-nine (19.2%) of the 307 patients who received a second PPD had a booster response. A total of 50.9% of the residents had evidence of tuberculosis exposure by skin testing. There were no differences between patients with significant and nonsignificant reactions when comparing age, length of stay, functional status evaluated by Karnofsky scale, or number of underlying diseases. Second test conversion occurred in 4.3% of those patients who had been in the unit for less than 1 month and in 36% of those who had been residents for a period of 3 to 6 months (p less than 0.05). Regardless of the size of the initial reading, it is important to perform a two-stage PPD in residents of chronic care facilities who have a negative first test. INH prophylaxis should be considered in patients admitted to chronic care facilities such as the domiciliary when they have significant Mantoux reactions.
Hyposomatomedinemia in the men of a Veterans Administration Nursing Home: prevalence and correlates.	A previous study found hyposomatomedinemia to be common in the men of this VA Nursing Home. To gain information on the prevalence and correlates of this endocrine characteristic, we have measured plasma somatomedin C (SmC) in 69 Nursing Home men 55-95 years old (group I), and in 37 independent men 56-87 years old attending our geriatric medicine outpatient clinic (group II). In groups I and II, a clinical data base was compiled comprising: blood chemistries, measures of body composition - nutritional state and functional level, diagnoses, medications, and morbidity and mortality during the year after the SmC analysis. The mean +/- SD for SmC was significantly (p less than 0.05) lower in group I (0.35 +/- 0.21 units/ml) than in group II (0.45 +/- 0.13 units/ml). SmC less than 0.25 units/ml, a range consistent with severe growth hormone deficiency, was found almost exclusively in group I (31.8% of men in group I, 3.7% of men in group II). In either group I, or in groups I and II combined, SmC was significantly (p less than 0.05) correlated with body weight as percentage of ideal, midarm muscle circumference (MAMC) as percent of standard, diagnosis of cerebrovascular disease, and plasma testosterone level. Men with SmC values below 0.25 units/ml had significantly (p less than 0.05) lower values for body weight as percentage of ideal, and for MAMC as percentage of standard. Except for cerebrovascular disease, SmC did not correlate significantly (p greater than 0.05) with diagnosis, drugs, morbidity or mortality.
Alcohol and nutrient intake of elderly men.	The effect of alcohol consumption on the intake of food nutrients was investigated in elderly residents in a Veterans Administration Domiciliary. When compared with a group of abstainers from the same institution, the imbibers ate fewer food calories (2,140 vs. 2,415 kcal per day) and had lower serum albumin levels (54 vs. 58 per cent total serum protein). The lower caloric intake extended to the three main energy sources (fat, protein, and carbohydrate) and occurred even though ample food was available. In view of the reduced nutrient intake and known impairment of the absorptive process by ethanol, institutionalized elderly alcoholics require special attention to maintain a satisfactory nutritional status.
Veterans Administration cooperative study on hepatitis and dentistry.	Personnel in the VA dental facilities were screened for the detection of viral hepatitis and identification of factors implicating infectivity. A total of 963 personnel from 126 dental facilities throughout the United States voluntarily participated in the study. The rate of seroconversion for any hepatitis B markers was approximately 1% per year. Serial positive tests for antibody to hepatitis B core antigen or antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (or both) were present in 16.2% of dentists and 13.0% of dental auxiliary personnel. Oral and maxillofacial surgeons composed the highest prevalence occupation (24.0%), and clinical personnel composed the lowest prevalence occupation (8.9%). There was a significant association between years in dental environment and serological positivity for viral B infection. The dentists and dental auxiliary personnel had significant linear trends of increasing serological positivity with years in the dental environment. Although a majority of personnel reported wearing gloves while treating high-risk patients or performing invasive procedures, inadequate prophylactic measures were exercised for most patients undergoing a variety of less invasive procedures. The results of the study show the need for an active immunization program against type B viral infection for dental and dental auxiliary personnel, preferably before the initial exposure to the professional environment.
Pharmacy practice in the Veterans Administration.	The current status of pharmaceutical services in the Veterans Administration (VA) is described. The mission of the VA Department of Medicine and Surgery is to ensure that quality medical care is provided on a timely basis to all eligible veterans. The VA operates 172 medical centers and 225 ambulatory-care clinics, which makes the VA Pharmacy Service the largest multiinstitutional pharmacy system in the United States. VA pharmacy staffs in VA hospitals range in size from four or five people to more than 100 employees. The VA Pharmacy Service programs are divided into inpatient programs and ambulatory-care programs. Clinical pharmaceutical services and education and research activities are integrated into these programs. A Regional Pharmacy Advisory Council composed of chiefs of pharmacy service from seven geographical regions coordinates the exchange of information between the Central Office and the regions. Current issues of priority for the VA Pharmacy Service include human resource management, material resource management, information resource management, public relations, program enhancement, and new technology. The VA health-care system is comprehensive and complex, and the Pharmacy Service programs reflect the VA mission to provide quality services and support programs that will generate new information or knowledge to improve the care of veterans.
Preoperative prophylactic cephalothin fails to control septic complications of colorectal operations: results of controlled clinical trial. A Veterans Administration cooperative study.	Data obtained from a survey of the membership of the Society for Surgery of the Alimentary Tract and the American Society of Colon and Rectal Surgeons indicated that concomitant administration of oral neomycin-erythromycin base and systemic cephalothin, together with mechanical colon cleansing, was the most popular method of colon preparation. We designed a prospective double blind clinical trial to compare administration of intravenous cephalothin, oral neomycin-erythromycin base, and the combination of both the intravenous and oral antibiotics. Intake of patients to the intravenous cephalothin group was stopped because the data indicated that this method of prophylaxis resulted in significantly higher numbers of septic complications. The incidence of wound infection was 30 per cent and the overall incidence of septic complications was 39 per cent in patients receiving only intravenous cephalothin combined with mechanical colon cleansing. The incidence of wound infection and the overall incidence of septic complications was only 6 per cent in the comparison group, and the differences are highly significant.
Long-term results of internal mammary artery implantation for coronary artery disease: a controlled trial by the participants of the Veterans Administration Coronary Bypass Surgery Cooperative Study Group.	One hundred forty-six adult men from sixteen Veterans Administration hospitals were entered in a controlled prospective clinical trial. Seventy-one patients were randomly allocated to receive implantation of the internal mammary artery into the left ventricular myocardium for chronic ischemic heart disease with angina pectoris, and 75 were assigned to the control group. The two treatment groups were similar at baseline with respect to sixteen clinical and angiographic factors thought to have prognostic importance. Most of the patients were operated on before 1970. Operative mortality was 12%, and implant patency in 52% of eligible patients studied 1 year after operation was 67%. At the end of follow-up extending up to 12 years (mean, 9.3 years), cumulative survival for both groups was similar. Over half of the patients (58%) had died at the end of 10 years (5% per year). While the hypothesis on which the operation was based appears to be valid, the degree of revascularization achievable in most patients did not affect longevity.
Effect of warfarin on survival in small cell carcinoma of the lung. Veterans Administration Study No. 75.	In a controlled, randomized study, survival of patients with small cell carcinoma of the lung (SCCL) was prolonged on addition of warfarin sodium to combination chemotherapy plus radiation therapy. Median survival for 25 control patients was 24 weeks and for 25 warfarin-treated patients was 50 weeks. This difference could not be accounted for by differences between groups in performance status, extent of disease, age, or sex. The survival advantage associated with warfarin administration was observed both for patients with extensive disease and for those who failed to achieve complete or partial remission. The warfarin-treated group also demonstrated a significantly increased time to first evidence of disease progression. These results suggest that warfarin may be useful in the treatment of SCCL and also support the hypothesis that the blood coagulation mechanism may be involved in the growth and spread of cancer in man.
Splenectomy and subsequent mortality in veterans of the 1939-45 war.	A long-term follow-up of 740 American servicemen splenectomised because of trauma during the 1939-45 war showed a significant excess mortality from pneumonia and ischaemic heart-disease. Mortality from cirrhosis was also increased, but not significantly. The findings confirm that the risk of fatal infections is increased by asplenia; however, the risk of cancer was not increased, as it is in some other immunodeficiency states. Post-splenectomy thrombocytosis and hypercoagulability may account for the increased risk of fatal myocardial ischaemia in this group.
Use of prophylactic antibiotics in surgical procedures: peer review guidelines as a method for quality assurance.	Concomitant with the development of guidelines for the use of prophylactic antibiotics in surgery, the Veterans Administration undertook a survey of its surgical chiefs in which the likelihood of peer review guidelines being an effective method of quality assurance was assessed. The scope of the present problem was also assessed in terms of the misuse of antimicrobial agents in surgical units. The implications of this study for quality assurance are:(1) Chiefs of surgery can be influenced by peer review guidelines, but other sources can also have impact. (2) The control practices used by chiefs to influence their staffs are limited. (3) The mechanisms used by chiefs to monitor adherence to their policies are mostly informal. The implications of this study in relation to surgical antibiotic prophylaxis are: (1) The practices of surgical chiefs differ significantly from peer review guidelines. (2) The problem is far more serious for certain surgical procedures than for others. (3) Most misuse errors are errors of commission rather than omission.
A survey of current phantom limb pain treatment in the United States.	A survey of phantom limb pain treatment methods currently used by Veterans Administration hospitals, medical schools, pain clinics, and pain specialists in the United States was carried out to determine which treatments are in use, their success rates as estimated by their users, and experience with unsuccessful treatment methods used by patients prior to referral to the respondent. The combined results of a recent literature search and this survey identified 68 treatment methods of which 50 were commented upon by the survey respondents as being in current use. Only a few treatment methods were even moderately successful when subjected to the criterion of low failure rates after one year. Non-surgical treatment methods were far more successful than surgical ones. A possible treatment regime based on optimizing moderately successful methods is proposed for further study.
The Veterans Administration Cooperative Study of stable angina: current status.	The current status of the Veterans Administration Cooperative Study of the effect of surgery on survival in patients with stable angina is presented. The outcome in 686 adult males randomly allocated to medical or surgical treatment groups in 1972-1974 was studied in subgroups of patients classified by invasive (arteriographic) and noninvasive risk factors. In 91 patients with left main lesions reducing the luminal diameter 50% or more, surgery significantly improved survival in the two-thirds characterized as middle or high risk by four simple noninvasive predictors of prognosis (New York Heart Association functional classification III or IV, history of myocardial infarction, history of hypertension, and ST-segment depression on the resting baseline ECG as assessed on a centralized reading). Patients with three-vessel disease and no significant disease of the left main coronary artery also had better survival rates when treated surgically. However, this was statistically significant at 6 years only in the 10 hospitals in which the aggregate operative mortality was 3.3%. Patients without left main lesions were also categorized by four noninvasive predictors of risk. Categorizing such patients into roughly equal groups of high, middle, and low risk identified a high-risk group, in which surgery was associated with statistically improved survival, and low- and middle-risk groups in which it was not. The use of both invasive and noninvasive factors to assess risk in patients with chronic stable angina pectoris provided greater predictive power than either angiography or noninvasive factors alone.
The continuing undersupply of neurologists in the 1980s: impressions based on data from three studies.	Current unmet needs for neurologists were estimated on the basis of a survey of the directors of all academic neurology programs in the United States and Puerto Rico, by a study of the state of Indiana, and a review of potential needs by the Veterans Administration Hospitals. The number of neurologists in 1990 were predicted from residency positions filled, the membership of the American Academy of Neurology, and the AMA Master File. From these analyses, the author concludes that a shortage of from 1,214 to 5,418 neurologists may exist in 1990.
Research issues related to optimal oral health outcomes.	Patient outcomes form one part of the classic triad used to define quality of care: structure, process, and outcome. Outcomes research in dentistry should focus on global questions such as: What difference does dental care make to a patient? Do patients derive perceptible benefits from their dental care? What dental treatments work the best? Like programs or other courses of action, treatment outcomes are considered on three levels: the policy level, which asks, "Are we doing the right things for our target population, given our resources?" program evaluation, in which specific program objectives are set in terms of achievement or maintenance of certain rates and measures; and the individual patient level, in which specific physiologic, psychological, and sociological measures are used to determine individual treatment outcomes. Each level of evaluation can use treatment outcomes or oral health status measures as evaluation criteria. Clinicians routinely face the challenge of providing "appropriate" care to older veterans--a concept that considers the accuracy of risk assessment and diagnosis as well as treatment outcomes (such as the relative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of alternative treatment strategies, together with the short- and longer-term physiologic and psychological results). Outcomes research is even more challenging when considering its application in older populations whose physical, social, and psychological health are increasingly interrelated and variable with age. Thus, outcomes research, and particularly research on the appropriateness of care, must consider the values and preferences (utility) of those outcomes for older veterans and their families. Optimal oral health outcomes can be achieved through invigorated oral health services research to better understand patients' preferences related to dental treatment decisions, to define oral health outcomes incorporating these preferences, and to assess the effectiveness of the current dental delivery system and its various components, including the appropriate mix of dental providers and allied health personnel, emerging technologies, and innovative prevention and health promotion strategies. An administrative structure and incentives should be established to support dental health services and outcomes research within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). A dental service network with an oversight board could be established to evaluate issues related to treatment outcomes. Alternatively, a Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center devoted to the improvement of the quality of VA dental care and the oral health care delivery system could be established.
Quality and effectiveness issues related to oral health.	In recent years, methods have been developed to evaluate effectiveness, cost-effectiveness, and quality of oral health services and delivery mechanisms. These evaluation techniques are important to the application of oral health services, because most oral health services have not been adequately evaluated. For many services, evaluation may not be necessary. However, there is wide variation in clinical practices and accumulating evidence that many health practices, although based on reasonable pathophysiologic grounds, are not resulting in their expected health benefits. This has led to the suggestion that all clinical precepts may be questioned. A number of measures are used by researchers to evaluate the quality and effectiveness of oral health services. These include: Effectiveness and appropriateness: Methods available to assess health practices range from clinical observation to strictly controlled randomized clinical trials. Cost-effectiveness: Benefit-cost and cost effectiveness analyses. Quality: No tool exists that will single-handedly measure quality. Current methodologies should be based on the following three-dimensional conceptual framework: Structure (evaluation of facilities, equipment, personnel, and organization to deliver care), process (observance of the patient-provider interaction), and outcome (measures of health status and patient outcomes). Little to no information on the quality and effectiveness of oral health delivery systems is available in the United States; the most common system in place is solo, private, fee-for-service practice. Specific questions, conditions, or practices that need evaluation include: Alternative frequencies of oral prophylaxis; Use of fluoride and other remineralization techniques for early decay; Alternative methods to replace missing teeth, including the appropriateness of dental implants; Methods to prevent and treat symptoms of dry mouth; Treatment of the medically compromised patient; Prevention of oral complications of cancer treatment; Appropriateness of new and existing diagnostic technologies; Diagnosis and treatment of oral cancer; and Alternative oral health delivery systems, financing, and expanded responsibilities for allied health professionals.
Functionally dependent veterans. Issues related to providing and improving their oral health care.	This article discusses issues related to the quality and effectiveness of new, emerging, and existing oral health delivery mechanisms and models for the functionally dependent veteran. It describes the particular needs and unique qualities of functionally dependent veterans and enumerates the clinical dental interventions and delivery systems available to this group. Barriers specific to The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) regarding this population and suggestions for improved access to care are summarized. Suggestions for further research are proposed with the intent that limited resources be utilized so that maximum benefits are provided to the functionally dependent veterans who need care most. What we know: Among the veteran population and the general population, the oldest cohort of elderly (those age 85 and older) are growing faster than any other age group. The rate of functional dependency increases dramatically with age, from about 10% at age 65 to 69 to about 57% after age 85. Functionally dependent elderly are the most likely group to be home-bound or in nursing homes. Compared with independent elderly, the oral status of functionally dependent elderly tends to be poorer. Functionally dependent elderly have higher rates of tooth loss, greater prevalence of denture-related problems, greater prevalence and severity of dental caries, higher prevalence of gingival and periodontal disease, and typically not seen a dentist in at least 5 years. The Department of Veterans Affairs has several advantages over non-VA settings in delivering dental care to the functionally dependent including the presence and availability of dental clinics at VA medical centers and outpatient facilities, the fact that they are free to eligible VA patients, and the greater knowledge base of the dentists. Although VA is effective in delivering oral care to a small percentage of the total population, it is likely that demand will increase and resources exhausted if certain anticipated changes occur (eg, greater demand for dental care and/or changing dental status, such as more elderly with teeth). Questions that need to be answered: What quality of oral care is VA providing to the functionally dependent veteran? What delivery systems are the most effective in providing care to the functionally dependent elderly? Is there a difference in oral health outcomes when dental personnel serve on patient care teams? What barriers exist for delivering quality oral care for the functionally dependent elderly? How can we eliminate or minimize these barriers?
Resources needed to enhance and develop health services research to improve the oral health status of the aging veteran in the Department of Veterans Affairs System.	Health services research (HSR) in the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is one way in which to study the oral health care delivered to aging veterans and to ensure the most effective and efficient methods of meeting their oral health needs. This article details the current resources and infrastructure within VA dentistry that could be used to support a dental HSR agenda, followed by recommendations for improvements. The Department of Veterans Affairs' current situation regarding dental HSR is as follows: Dental health services research within VA needs expansion. Staff dentists have neither the training nor the incentives to conduct dental HSR. Dental clinic administrators are discouraged from being supportive of research due to the high clinical work-load requirements present at most dental services. Dental service affiliations with universities are not structured to support HSR. The HSR personnel outside of the dental services do not have the time nor the inclination to engage in dental HSR. Few recruitment and training initiatives are used to increase the number of VA dental health services researchers. Although funding sources exist that could be used to support dental HSR, the lack of trained and interested research personnel prevents full use. The Department of Veterans Affairs data collection in dentistry are inadequate to support dental HSR. If the required changes occur, VA is uniquely situated to be the largest contributor to dental HSR in the United States and to act as a catalyst for improving dental HSR throughout the nation. Recommendations for improvement of VA dental HSR are as follows: Restructure the Dental Activity System to include detailed diagnostic and treatment data as part of an integrated computerized patient record. Develop and implement a strategic plan with a detailed timeline for increasing dental HSR in VA. Recruit staff dentists with formal research training and provide them protected research time and resources to conduct meaningful research. Develop academic affiliations with centers of excellence in dental HSR. Develop full-time equivalent employee positions dedicated to research at the proposed Veterans Service Areas level. Develop incentives to increase collaboration with non-VA health services researchers in addressing VA issues. Develop dental HSR training programs modeled after the Career Development Program, Dental-Geriatric Fellowship, and Dentist-Scientist Programs that will permit VA to become a leader in dental HSR training. Develop mechanisms to ensure adequate and sustained funding for dental HSR projects. Ensure that dissemination techniques are effective and result in improvements in operational effectiveness and quality of care.
Overview of research needs and opportunities for improving the oral health of aging veterans.	This article summarizes health services research recommendations from and similarities of selected oral health research agendas. Themes of research needs and opportunities emphasize the need for development of more comprehensive measures of oral health and functioning, investigations of the effects of improved access on increased utilization and ultimately on oral health, and studies of the relationship between oral health and general health. In addition, future needs include enhanced technology assessment and studies of science/technology transfer into oral health practice, development of better measures and studies of health outcomes, and investigations of the effects of delivery system variables on costs, productivity, and services. Postconference review and input from The Department of Veterans Affairs providers and patient and policymaker groups is recommended to complete the development of an agenda. Adequate funding, trained research personnel, and a commitment to oral health services research are needed to ensure implementation.
Research issues related to the oral health status of aging veterans.	This article reviews the research on the oral health status of aging veterans and offers recommendations for a research agenda that will improve their oral health and quality of life. Uniform definitions, or a "composite" measure, of overall oral health status would facilitate oral health status measurement. Because such a measure is not available, traditional oral epidemiologic indexes or treatment-needs data have been used to identify oral health status in aging veterans. Few studies of national scope have been conducted on veterans. A cost-effective alternative may be cooperative studies within the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and other organizations. The Department of Veterans Affairs Dental Longitudinal Study (DLS), begun in 1968, provides the richest data on an aging veteran population. More frequently, VA investigators have examined local or regional veteran populations. These studies have examined oral health status and risk factors associated with oral diseases. Unlike the DLS, most studies have been cross-sectional, and a few studies have examined the effect of systemic disease on oral health and vice versa. Key research agenda items and recommendations include: Development and validation of functional measures of oral health status; Implementation of multicenter, cooperative, descriptive, and analytic epidemiologic studies; Implementation of focused cross-sectional and longitudinal studies on oral health status, treatment needs, and patient outcomes; Enumeration of data sets in the VA system that can be shared with non-VA investigators; Implementation of targeted studies of aging populations who have specific comorbidities prevalent in VA; and Use of VA continuum of care to study the relation between oral and systemic diseases.
Access to and patterns of use of oral health care among elderly veterans.	Utilization of The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) dental care system is best understood in the context of the health care system at large. Veterans' use of dental care is apparently influenced by a wide variety of factors that include: barriers to access to non-VA systems (such as a lack of health insurance and the inability to afford non-VA care); ineligibility for VA services (such as absence of a service-connected disability); characteristics of the VA delivery system itself (such as eligibility priorities, geographic distribution of VA facilities, and quality of VA care); and characteristics of the veteran population (such as veterans' illness level, their perceived need for care, and their satisfaction with and perceived quality of VA care). The Department of Veterans Affairs offers a unique opportunity to study the effect of certain delivery system characteristics on utilization behavior and veterans' use of specific dental services. Health services research on the VA oral health care system will 1) provide information useful to improve veterans' oral health and the effectiveness and efficiency of VA dental care delivery and 2) improve our understanding of utilization behavior in large public sector health care systems that are surrounded by private sector health care settings. The following topics should be included in a VA oral care health services research agenda: development of a uniform, system-wide dental care data base; an understanding of the long-term benefits that result from the use of specific dental services and determination of the services that are the most cost-effective; an understanding of the characteristics of delivery systems and of the dental care providers who promote the most appropriate, effective, and efficient care; a better understanding of how VA makes veterans aware of their eligibility; an understanding of the relationship between medical and dental care use in the VA system; and an understanding of the degree to which discontinuity exists in dental care services of veterans.
A causal model of voluntary turnover among nursing personnel in long-term psychiatric settings.	Causal modeling was used to explore the processes by which individual characteristics, job satisfaction, and intention to quit explain turnover among nursing personnel in 29 Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) long-term psychiatric settings. The sample consisted of 1,106 registered nurses (RNs), licensed practical nurses (LPNs), and nurses' aides. We conceptualized turnover as a multistage process linking social and experiential orientations, attitudes toward the job, the decision to quit, and the behavior of actually quitting. Intention to quit was the strongest direct predictor of turnover. Professional growth opportunities and workload were important indirect predictors of turnover. Dissatisfaction with work hazards and relationships with coworkers were both indirect and direct predictors of turnover. Attitudes towards the job varied by nursing group. LPNs and aides were less satisfied than RNs with autonomy and work hazards. RNs were more dissatisfied with workload. We conclude that strategies to promote retention need to address aspects of jobs tailored to specific nursing groups.
Staff development in pharmacist-conducted patient education and counseling.	A staff development program designed to improve pharmacists' counseling skills and to allow participants to achieve a minimum level of competence in counseling is described. The pharmacy service at a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center selected a workshop emphasizing the principles of the Indian Health Service (IHS) interactive counseling technique as the basis for a training program for staff pharmacists. The program was expanded to meet the pharmacy's counseling training needs. Handouts on 70 of the most frequently prescribed outpatient medications; administration techniques for oral and nasal inhalers and ophthalmic agents; and 32 common diseases were included in training manuals. Seven standard cases were developed for role-playing sessions, the purpose of which was to increase pharmacists' level of confidence in using the IHS technique and in counseling patients about common diseases and medications. Each pharmacist's counseling technique was assessed by a facilitator. Knowledge of commonly prescribed medications was assessed by an open-book written examination. The pharmacists' self-reported level of confidence in counseling patients about common diseases and medications was significantly improved after the training program. A counseling training program enabled pharmacists to achieve a minimum level of competence in counseling and increased their confidence in their counseling skills.
Predictors of differential response to clozapine and haloperidol. Veterans Affairs Cooperative Study Group on Clozapine in Refractory Schizophrenia.	We sought to identify baseline predictors of response to clozapine.
Patterns of coordination and clinical outcomes: a study of surgical services.	To test the hypothesis that surgical services combining relatively high levels of feedback and programming approaches to the coordination of surgical staff would have better quality of care than surgical services using low levels of both coordination approaches as well as those surgical service using low levels of either coordination approach.
Two- to three-year follow-up of patients with single-vessel coronary artery disease randomized to PTCA or medical therapy (results of a VA cooperative study). Veterans Affairs Cooperative Studies Program ACME Investigators. Angioplasty Compared to Medicine.	Despite increasing use of percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) to treat stenotic coronary artery disease, there are relatively few prospective studies evaluating its long-term effectiveness. We prospectively randomized 212 stable patients with provocable myocardial ischemia and single-vessel subocclusive coronary disease to receive primary therapy with either PTCA or medical therapy. This report presents the clinical follow-up of these patients at a mean, after randomization, of 2.4 years for interview and 3.0 years for exercise testing. Of the 212 patients originally randomized, 175 received an extended follow-up interview, and 132 underwent exercise testing; 62% of patients in the PTCA group were angina free compared with 47% of patients in the medical group (p <0.05). Furthermore, exercise duration as measured by treadmill testing was prolonged by 1.33 minutes over baseline in the PTCA group, whereas it decreased by 0.28 minutes in the medical group (p <0.04). Although the angina-free time on the treadmill was not different (p=0.50), fewer patients in the medical group developed angina on the treadmill at 3 years than those in the PTCA group (p=0.04). By 36 months, excluding the initial randomized PTCA, use of PTCA and use of coronary artery bypass surgery were not different in the 2 treatment groups. These data indicate that some of the early benefits derived from PTCA in patients with single-vessel coronary artery disease are sustained, making it an attractive therapeutic option for these patients.
