University-community partnerships for health: a model interdisciplinary service-learning project.	This project is an example of a successful service-learning experiment at a major university. The program was successful in providing service-learning experiences for an interdisciplinary group of health-professions students, delivering essential health services to a community at risk, providing health-risk and demographic data, and offering opportunities for scholarly productivity for faculty. This was accomplished with a modest investment of internal start-up funding. Goals of the project were achieved, and the program and course were viewed as successful by students, faculty, and community partners.
Meeting the challenge: educating ethnic minority nursing students--a continuing role.	Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU's) traditionally have educated large numbers of Black nurses. HBCU programs must not lose the vision from the past in attempts to demonstrate diversity in the future. The need for HBCU's as providers of Black nurses necessitate an even larger and viable role in changing health care environments. The roles must be designed to increase retention, reduce barriers, and generate outcomes for HBCU's to remain in the forefront of educating nurse leaders for tomorrow.
US public universities' compliance with recommended tobacco-control policies.	To address the rise in tobacco use among college students, several national health organizations, including the American College Health Association, recommend that colleges enact smoking bans in and around all campus buildings, including student housing, and prohibit the sale, advertisement, and promotion of tobacco products on campus. Key informants at 50 US public universities, one from each state, were interviewed during the 2001/2002 academic year to assess the prevalence of these recommended policies. More than half (54%) of the colleges banned smoking in all campus buildings and student residences, 68% had no tobacco sales on campus, and 32% of the schools' newspapers did not accept tobacco advertising. Regional differences in adoption of these campus tobacco-control policies were present. Although this national sample of public universities had implemented some of the recommended policies, they must take further actions to comply fully with campus tobacco-control guidelines.
Customization of a standard practice management software program to satisfy the needs of a dental hygiene program.	The University of New England (UNE) Dental Hygiene Program converted from a paper format to a digital format to manage the daily, dental hygiene clinic transactions. The use of this practice management software created new opportunities to enhance the program's teaching mission, monitor the progress of individual students, and facilitate the data collection necessary to meet accreditation standards. This report will describe how this dental hygiene program customized a standard practice management software program to enhance the specific requirements of a clinical teaching institution.
PROSPER community-university partnership model for public education systems: capacity-building for evidence-based, competence-building prevention.	This paper presents a model to guide capacity-building in state public education systems for delivery of evidence-based family and youth interventions-interventions that are designed to bolster youth competencies, learning, and positive development overall. Central to this effort is a linking capacity agents framework that builds upon longstanding state public education infrastructures, and a partnership model called PROSPER or PROmoting School-community-university Partnerships to Enhance Resilience. The paper presents an overview of the evolving partnership model and summarizes positive results of its implementation over a 12-year period in an ongoing project.
Biomedical and health informatics education at UMIT-approaches and strategies at a newly founded university.	Based on the recommendations of the International Medical Informatics Association (IMIA, ) on education in health and medical informatics and on experiences in founding a new school, the University for Health Informatics and Technology Tyrol (UMIT, ), at Innsbruck, Austria, questions on education in health informatics, medical informatics, and biomedical informatics are discussed. Suggestions are made on (1). appropriate approaches for specialized educational programs in biomedical and health informatics at the university level, on (2). resources and infrastructures needed for running such programs at a high-quality level, and on (3). strategies to be considered for the future development of such educational programs. UMIT strives for an international top position in education and research. It entirely concentrates on areas in research and education in biomedicine and the health sciences. UMIT started in the academic year 2001/2002 with two educational programs. They lead to a B.Sc. degree (3 years) and a M.Sc. degree (1.5-2 years) in medical informatics. In parallel Ph.D. students work in research projects.
Faculty role transition from a community college to a research-intensive university.	Transitions between academic settings require new faculty members to develop expertise consistent with the institutions' specific missions. Even those faculty members considered experts in their field must adapt to the challenges of new work settings. In nursing education, mentoring has been shown to address many of those challenges. This article describes the changes in nursing faculty roles involved in a transition from a community college to a research-intensive university within the same urban setting but with different missions. In addition, we propose strategies for facilitating those changes through the use of internal and external mentors. The university setting can provide an almost unlimited environment for professional growth, and internal and external mentors can provide the support crucial to successful transition.
The North Carolina experiment: academia-practice partnerships.	Bringing academia and public health practice closer is a major challenge to the field. The Institute of Medicine's report, The Future of Public Health, emphasizes the need for practice scholarship and closer relationships between schools of public health and the practice arena. However, little has been written on the "how to" of developing these partnerships. This article describes four approaches utilized by the North Carolina Institute for Public Health for sustainable partnerships. Each approach is depicted along with its strengths and weaknesses identified. Characteristics of the approaches are described as well as being depicted by diagrams. A time context for each approach suggests the type of events for which the approach works. Culture and requirements of the respective partners' organization must be taken into consideration in utilizing any of the approaches. Some events in the practice setting cannot wait for an academia calendar. Therefore, all successful partnerships approach must be built on realistic expectation and trust.
The AuD Program at Gallaudet University.	Gallaudet University was among the first universities to address the American Speech-Language-Hearing Association mandate to universities to convert the entry level clinical audiology degree from a master's degree to a clinical doctoral (AuD) degree. The Gallaudet AuD program was approved in 1998 and graduated its first AuD class in 2002. The purpose of this article is to describe the Gallaudet AuD program, the process of converting from a master's program to an AuD program, the impact of converting the program, and current challenges. It is hoped that this description will be useful to those who are currently developing AuD programs.
Seton Hall university doctor of science degree program: clinical doctorate in audiology.	This article provides an overview of the clinical doctoral program in audiology at Seton Hall University. It is a full-time, 4-year program that includes academic course work, clinical practica, and research experience. In concert with the university mission, the program is designed to enable students to develop the skills they need to be leaders in the field of audiology, providing assessment and intervention to individuals with hearing problems and enhancing the knowledge base of the profession. As part of the School of Graduate Medical Education, students in the program have access to a wealth of resources in related health professions. The close proximity to New York City provides many opportunities for outstanding clinical education with a diverse population.
Community-academic research on hard-to-reach populations: benefits and challenges.	In this article, the authors examine some of the benefits and challenges associated with conducting research on hard-to-reach/hidden populations: in this instance, sex workers. The population studied was female and male sex workers working in different sectors of the sex industry in a medium-size Canadian metropolitan area. The authors describe the need for close community-academic cooperation, given the hidden and highly stigmatized nature of the target population that was investigated and the local context in which the research project was embedded. The authors discuss the main benefits and challenges of the research collaboration for the various parties involved, including the community partner organization, indigenous research assistants, and academic research team. They conclude with a discussion of strategies to help overcome the main challenges faced during the research endeavor.
Life on the exponential curve--time to rattle the academic cage? A view from the street.	The history of health service research has been characterized by an overwhelming volume of literature that has little impact on those who actually get on and do the work. The focus has been on an examination of why evidence is not accommodated into practice and how the barriers to implementation can be reduced. The fact that the evidence-based product may not be relevant to those at whom it is directed had not until recently been considered a possibility. Over the past 20 years there has been a consolidation of two cultures in the National Health Service--the academic/researcher and the clinician/practitioner. This paper sets the two cultures within the context of a community of practice framework and argues that the emphasis should move away from managing the interface to a fundamental reappraisal of the health service academic community.
The state sets the rate: the relationship among state-specific college binge drinking, state binge drinking rates, and selected state alcohol control policies.	We assessed the relationship between college binge drinking, binge drinking in the general population, and selected alcohol control policies.
Coping with the disruptive college student: a practical model.	This article offers some practical suggestions for college faculty and administrators who must deal with disruptive students. It emphasizes the need for well-defined codes of student conduct and clear procedures for dealing with disruptive behavior, and considers why university officials may be reluctant to deal with disciplinary problems related to psychiatric disturbances. The author discusses the distinction between disruptive and dangerous behavior, looks at the use of mandatory psychiatric withdrawals, makes recommendations for conditions of re-enrollment, and suggests how a campus mental health service can be useful in dealing with the problem.
The external leadership of self-managing teams: intervening in the context of novel and disruptive events.	Relatively little empirical research has been conducted on external leaders of self-managing teams. The integration of functional leadership theory with research on team routines suggests that leaders can intervene in teams in several different ways, and the effectiveness of this intervention depends on the nature of the events the team encounters. External team leaders from 3 organizations first described a series of events (N=117), and leaders and team members then completed surveys to quantitatively describe the events. Results indicated that leader preparation and supportive coaching were positively related to team perceptions of leader effectiveness, with preparation becoming more strongly related to effectiveness as event novelty increased. More active leader intervention activities (active coaching and sense making) were negatively related to satisfaction with leadership yet were positively related to effectiveness as events became more disruptive.
Training the trainee: the institution's responsibility to the often forgotten.	Because some trainees are not university employees, regulatory agencies, oversight committees, and investigators may overlook those who work with animals when it comes to training related to animal care and use. The authors draw attention to a common problem facing universities and suggest ways to close the gap in training.
How business schools lost their way.	Business schools are facing intense criticism for failing to impart useful skills, failing to prepare leaders, failing to instill norms of ethical behavior--and even failing to lead graduates to good corporate jobs. These criticisms come not just from students, employers, and the media but also from deans of some of America's most prestigious B schools. The root cause oftoday's crisis in management education, assert Warren G. Bennis and James O'Toole, is that business schools have adopted an inappropriate--and ultimately self-defeating--model of academic excellence. Instead of measuring themselves in terms of the competence of their graduates, or by how well their faculty members understand important drivers of business performance, they assess themselves almost solely by the rigor of their scientific research. This scientific model is predicated on the faulty assumption that business is an academic discipline like chemistry or geology when, in fact, business is a profession and business schools are professional schools--or should be. Business school deans may claim that their schools remain focused on practice, but they nevertheless hire and promote research-oriented professors who haven't spent time working in companies and are more comfortable teaching methodology than messy, multidisciplinary issues--the very stuff of management. The authors don't advocate a return to the days when business schools were glorified trade schools. But to regain relevancy, they say, business schools must rediscover the practice of business and find a way to balance the dual mission of educating practitioners and creating knowledge through research.
An information technology emphasis in biomedical informatics education.	Unprecedented growth in the interdisciplinary domain of biomedical informatics reflects the recent advancements in genomic sequence availability, high-content biotechnology screening systems, as well as the expectations of computational biology to command a leading role in drug discovery and disease characterization. These forces have moved much of life sciences research almost completely into the computational domain. Importantly, educational training in biomedical informatics has been limited to students enrolled in the life sciences curricula, yet much of the skills needed to succeed in biomedical informatics involve or augment training in information technology curricula. This manuscript describes the methods and rationale for training students enrolled in information technology curricula in the field of biomedical informatics, which augments the existing information technology curriculum and provides training on specific subjects in Biomedical Informatics not emphasized in bioinformatics courses offered in life science programs, and does not require prerequisite courses in the life sciences.
Biomedical informatics training at Stanford in the 21st century.	The Stanford Biomedical Informatics training program began with a focus on clinical informatics, and has now evolved into a general program of biomedical informatics training, including clinical informatics, bioinformatics and imaging informatics. The program offers PhD, MS, distance MS, certificate programs, and is now affiliated with an undergraduate major in biomedical computation. Current dynamics include (1) increased activity in informatics within other training programs in biology and the information sciences (2) increased desire among informatics students to gain laboratory experience, (3) increased demand for computational collaboration among biomedical researchers, and (4) interaction with the newly formed Department of Bioengineering at Stanford University. The core focus on research training-the development and application of novel informatics methods for biomedical research-keeps the program centered in the midst of this period of growth and diversification.
Bridging the gap between biological and clinical informatics in a graduate training program.	Several training programs in biomedical informatics in the United States are attempting to integrate biological and clinical informatics. However, significant differences in the cultures underlying these two disciplines pose barriers to a uniform educational solution. This paper recounts the experience at Columbia University in adapting a graduate program with an initial focus on clinical informatics to train bioinformaticians. The analysis begins by considering the development of the medical and biological informatics cultures over a 17-year period. Then we review how two separate curricula evolved to serve the needs of each group. Interviews with bioinformatics students and faculty indicated some dissatisfaction with the curriculum that developed within clinical informatics. Their comments are considered in the light of an analysis of the relationship between the application domains of biomedical informatics as a discipline. In response, a new curriculum was developed in which bioinformatics and clinical informatics are regarded as subdivisions of the same subject. A key feature of this curriculum is a new course, Theory and Methods in Biomedical Informatics, which presents informatics principles in their general form, and illustrates their application with examples drawn from across the biomedical spectrum. The paper concludes with suggestions for integrating informatics training programs at other institutions.
An interdepartmental Ph.D. program in computational biology and bioinformatics: the Yale perspective.	Computational biology and bioinformatics (CBB), the terms often used interchangeably, represent a rapidly evolving biological discipline. With the clear potential for discovery and innovation, and the need to deal with the deluge of biological data, many academic institutions are committing significant resources to develop CBB research and training programs. Yale formally established an interdepartmental Ph.D. program in CBB in May 2003. This paper describes Yale's program, discussing the scope of the field, the program's goals and curriculum, as well as a number of issues that arose in implementing the program. (Further updated information is available from the program's website, www.cbb.yale.edu.)
The cultural education of academic evaluators: lessons from a university-Hmong community partnership.	This article explores some of the lessons a university-based evaluation team learned while attempting to hire, retain, and work with staff members from a local Hmong community. These staff members were hired to assist a federally-funded community collaborative with implementing and evaluating a family strengthening program for Hmong families with adolescents. Over the course of two years, a succession of individuals were hired and resigned from a key staff position. These resignations occurred at critical points in the project, undermining a critical component of the program's evaluation. Through interviews, observations, self-reflection, and feedback from colleagues and reviewers, a better understanding of the reasons for these difficulties began to emerge. The challenges examined in this article help to illustrate some of the complexities faced by academics when conducting a community-based project with an underserved racial ethnic population. The article concludes by discussing some of the lessons learned and what they might suggest for others doing similar types of work.
Effective interdisciplinary training: lessons from the University of North Carolina's student health action coalition.	To identify essential elements of effective interdisciplinary training through an evaluation of the University of North Carolina's Student Health Action Coalition (SHAC), an interdisciplinary service learning program for health science students.
Developing education for long-term conditions management.	This article discusses the experience of one university in the development, implementation and evaluation of a modular programme of study for practitioners working with people with long-term conditions. It addresses the complexity of developing a curriculum in response to Department of Health initiatives, at times pre-empting central guidance. It highlights the importance of partnership working underpinning every aspect of programme development. The article provides some context for the policy initiative, discusses some of the challenges in programme design, content and the requirement for work-based learning. The assessment, learning and teaching strategies are described, highlighting some of the benefits of portfolios as a means of evidencing and enhancing learning. Evaluation and progress of the programme to date is shared, highlighting some future challenges. This includes ensuring that the programme continues to complement other courses and that modules meet future challenges, including the Nursing and Midwifery Council requirements for advanced practice.
Innovations in integrative healthcare education: undergraduate holistic studies at San Francisco State University and the CAM in undergraduate medical education project in Canada.	Content on integrative healthcare and complementary and alternative medicine is being taught in hundreds of educational programs across the country. Nursing, medical, osteopathic, chiropractic, acupuncture, naturopathic, and other programs are finding creative and innovative ways to include these approaches in new models of education and practice. This column spotlights such innovations in integrative healthcare and CAM education and presents readers with specific educational interventions they can adapt into new or ongoing educational efforts at their institution or programs. We invite readers to submit brief descriptions of efforts in their institutions that reflect the creativity, diversity, and interdisciplinary nature of the field. Please submit to Dr Sierpina at vssierpi@utmb.edu or Dr Kreitzer at kreit003@umn.edu. Submissions should be no more than 700 to 800 words. Please include any Web site or other resource that is relevant, as well as contact information.
Prevalence and characteristics of smokers at 30 Pacific Northwest colleges and universities.	College is an important transition period during which young adults explore tobacco use. Few large-scale studies have been conducted among college students regarding tobacco use. We initiated a study examining tobacco use in 30 colleges and universities in the Pacific Northwest. We conducted a baseline survey among students. Sample size varied by the school size; for the 14 largest schools, we drew a random sample of all students, oversampling freshmen (n approximately 750) so that we could recruit and follow a cohort to assess smoking onset during the college years. Of the remaining students, we sampled equivalent numbers of sophomores, juniors, and seniors (n = 200 each). For the 16 schools with fewer than 1,350 students, we surveyed all students. We found overall smoking rates of 17.2%. Males (18.6%) were more likely to smoke than females (16.6%; p = .03), and public college students were more likely to smoke (20.5%) than those who attended private independent schools (18.9%; p = .61), whose rates were higher than those of private religious schools (11.6%; p = .001). Overall, college students are light smokers who do not smoke every day of the month. Further, they tend not to be highly dependent on tobacco, do not consider themselves regular smokers, and plan to quit before they graduate (56.8%). School type should be considered when estimating smoking rates among 4-year college students. Data indicate that college smokers wish and plan to quit before graduation, suggesting that efforts to assist smokers in quitting during the college years may be fruitful.
Health risk factors in pedagogy students' educational needs in state school of higher vocational education in Biala Podlaska]	The health conditions encompass also the risk factors. The cognition and showing the range of social pedagogy students' interest in the knowledge and abilities useful for minimizing the causes and consequences of the health risk factors was the aim of the work. There were 154 social pedagogy students tested. The questionnaire was applicated within the confess of researches. The results, which were received, showed that the tested students are the most interested in knowledge and abilities within the confess of the factors like: alcoholism, drug addiction, poverty, unemployment, impracticality and different forms and kinds of violence in selected social groups. To the sources of the knowledge from which the students would like to use in the future were ranked post conference materials and the archival sources. The majority of students would like to participate in meetings with authority and work in support groups if we talk about the methods enabling them to gain the prophylactic abilities in the minimizing range of the risk factors.
The TUBERO Project: roadmap for the establishment of biomedical engineering at Tohoku University.	This paper summarizes the background and objectives of the establishment of the Tohoku University Biomedical Engineering Research Organization (TUBERO), established in July 2003 as a part of the "Development of Strategic Research Center" program, funded by the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology (MEXT) of Japan through its Special Coordination Funds for Promoting Science and Technology. This is the largest project among those funded by the budget for strategic research provided by MEXT. In relation to medical microsystems, one of the vital tasks of the biomedical engineering field selected by TUBERO, the efforts of Tohoku University and collaborative actions undertaken between Tohoku University on the one hand and local governments (Miyagi prefecture and Sendai city) and the national government on the other hand, are introduced. More than three years have passed since the launch of this five-year project; one-and-a-half years remain. It will take time for the results to take shape, but this paper will offer some insight into Tohoku University's stance toward biomedical engineering in general, including the TUBERO Project.
A systematic approach for introducing innovative product design in courses with engineering and nonengineering students.	In our new global economy, biomedical product development teams need to be even more innovative in an environment constrained by fewer resources with less time from concept to market. Teams are often comprised of individuals spread around the world. To simulate this setting, we revised an existing course to incorporate teams of on-campus and distance students, with each team including both engineers and other specialties. Through interactive lectures and projects, we presented a systematic approach to innovation that should be useful to engineers and non-engineers alike. Students found the course challenging and exciting, displaying an improved ability to work in distributed teams and in developing innovative design solutions.
Undergraduate design projects to aid persons with disabilities: reflections.	In Spring 2002 the University of Wyoming, College of Engineering, received a five year grant from the National Science Foundation to link senior capstone design projects with the custom requirements of the assistive technology (AT) community. This serendipitous collaboration has been highly beneficial to our senior design students as well as individuals with a disability requiring one-of-a-kind AT devices. Now that the program is coming to a close on its five year term, we believe there are lessons we have learned that would be valuable to others considering participation in such a program. We will briefly review program development and organization, highlight lessons learned, and discuss program benefits and pitfalls. Paper emphasis will be on the practical implementation and management of this valuable program. Due to the rich benefits received from participating in the program, we plan on applying for a second five year program funding increment.
A systematic review: Students with mental health problems--a growing problem.	The number of university students with a serious mental illness has risen significantly over the past few years. A systematic review was conducted that addressed emotional and or mental health problems of university students worldwide. In total, 572 articles were identified, of which 11 met inclusion criteria. Issues identified included types of problems experienced by students, how staff dealt with these students, barriers to seeking help, tools that facilitated help-seeking and epidemiological trends in the university student population. Recommendations include (i) providing better links between the university and external mental health providers, and (ii) increasing students' awareness of existing support services within and external to the university. As it is unrealistic to expect all academic staff to have the expertise required to deal with students with emotional problems, it is also recommended that (iii) policies and personnel with expertise in mental health are available to provide guidance for staff.
Outcomes of a program to reduce depression.	Depression is increasing among Korean college students. Moreover, it is common for depressed individuals to consider attempting suicide. The purpose of this study therefore was to develop and examine the effectiveness of an intervention to reduce suicidal ideation and depression among female college students. Study participants were assigned to either an intervention (n = 27) or control (n = 31) group. The intervention group received a depression-reducing program in eight 1-hr weekly sessions. Measures of suicidal ideation and depression were administered. The program has effects on suicidal ideation and depression among female college students. The findings suggest that the study program may be useful in reducing suicidal ideation and depression among female college students.
Consuming an edge: ADHD, stimulant use, and psy culture at the corporate university.	We examine "psy" on the college campus. Psy refers to ways of knowing and acting on ourselves that shape everyday life psychologically. We suggest that there is an "elective affinity" between psy and the neoliberal management strategies that now dominate the "corporate university." We describe ways that psy organizes college life by drawing on the history of college health services; interviews about mental health and services at a university in Canada; and historical, social, and media accounts of student mental health and pharmaceutical drug use-both prescribed and not-on campus in the US and Canada. By the 1990s, for the first time, many students were arriving at college as already experienced consumers of psy with diagnoses and prescriptions. We approach this and the increased use of medication as an aspect of the psy-campus. We focus on stimulants, using ADHD to illustrate the blurring line between treatment and enhancement. Students who use stimulants-with or without prescription-do so in the same way: instrumentally in relation to academic demands. The blurred line between academic stress and psychiatric distress is further illustrated by "clinic notes," an institutionalized practice that enables all students to act on academic pressure as a matter of mental health. We describe the links between psy and institutional branding and marketing to illustrate the role of mental health and wellness services in the corporate university. 
Nursing, unionization, and caste: the lessons of local 6456.	A recent union drive by the faculty at the University of Illinois at Chicago sparked controversy among academic nurses in the College of Nursing. Background on the union drive and the history of nursing labor organizing is provided to demonstrate the fit of union representation for nurses in all settings today, including academia. 
Extending VIVO ontology to represent research and educational resources in an academic biomedical informatics department.	The increasing need for interdisciplinary team sciences makes it vital for academic research departments to publicize their research and educational resources as part of "linked data" on the semantic web to facilitate research networking and recruitment. We extended an open-source ontology, VIVO, to represent the research and educational resources in an academic biomedical informatics department to enable ontology-based information storage and retrieval. Using participatory design methods, we surveyed representative types of visitors to the department web site to understand their information needs, and incorporated these needs into the ontology design. We added 114 classes and 186 properties to VIVO. Generalizability and scalability are the measures used in our theoretical evaluation. 
Translating tuberculosis research into practice: collaboration between academic researchers and public health departments in North Carolina.	Successful collaborations between academic researchers and local health departments are vital for public health research, but developing and maintaining such partnerships is often difficult. However, in the North Carolina Tuberculosis Control Program, such partnerships have flourished and have led to notable improvements in patient care. 
Bringing together the academic drug discovery community.	The newly formed Academic Drug Discovery Consortium (ADDC) aims to support the growing numbers of university centres engaged in drug discovery that have emerged in response to recent changes in the drug discovery ecosystem. 
The Emory Chemical Biology Discovery Center: leveraging academic innovation to advance novel targets through HTS and beyond.	The Emory Chemical Biology Discovery Center (ECBDC) aims to accelerate high throughput biology and translation of biomedical research discoveries into therapeutic targets and future medicines by providing high throughput research platforms to scientific collaborators worldwide. ECBDC research is focused at the interface of chemistry and biology, seeking to fundamentally advance understanding of disease-related biology with its HTS/HCS platforms and chemical tools, ultimately supporting drug discovery. Established HTS/HCS capabilities, university setting, and expertise in diverse assay formats, including protein-protein interaction interrogation, have enabled the ECBDC to contribute to national chemical biology efforts, empower translational research, and serve as a training ground for young scientists. With these resources, the ECBDC is poised to leverage academic innovation to advance biology and therapeutic discovery. 
The University of New Mexico Center for Molecular Discovery.	The University of New Mexico Center for Molecular Discovery (UNMCMD) is an academic research center that specializes in discovery using high throughput flow cytometry (HTFC) integrated with virtual screening, as well as knowledge mining and drug informatics. With a primary focus on identifying small molecules that can be used as chemical probes and as leads for drug discovery, it is a central core resource for research and translational activities at UNM that supports implementation and management of funded screening projects as well as "up-front" services such as consulting for project design and implementation, assistance in assay development and generation of preliminary data for pilot projects in support of competitive grant applications. The HTFC platform in current use represents advanced, proprietary technology developed at UNM that is now routinely capable of processing bioassays arrayed in 96-, 384- and 1536-well formats at throughputs of 60,000 or more wells per day. Key programs at UNMCMD include screening of research targets submitted by the international community through NIH's Molecular Libraries Program; a multi-year effort involving translational partnerships at UNM directed towards drug repurposing - identifying new uses for clinically approved drugs; and a recently established personalized medicine initiative for advancing cancer therapy by the application of "smart" oncology drugs in selected patients based on response patterns of their cancer cells in vitro. UNMCMD discoveries, innovation, and translation have contributed to a wealth of inventions, patents, licenses and publications, as well as startup companies, clinical trials and a multiplicity of domestic and international collaborative partnerships to further the research enterprise. 
Personalized drug discovery: HCA approach optimized for rare diseases at Tel Aviv University.	The Cell screening facility for personalized medicine (CSFPM) at Tel Aviv University in Israel is devoted to screening small molecules libraries for finding new drugs for rare diseases using human cell based models. The main strategy of the facility is based on smartly reducing the size of the compounds collection in similarity clusters and at the same time keeping high diversity of pharmacophores. This strategy allows parallel screening of several patient derived - cells in a personalized screening approach. The tested compounds are repositioned drugs derived from collections of phase III and FDA approved small molecules. In addition, the facility carries screenings using other chemical libraries and toxicological characterizations of nanomaterials. 
From HTS to Phase I: the Institute for Therapeutics Discovery and Development at the University of Minnesota.	The high-throughput screening core at the University of Minnesota is part of the Institute for Therapeutics Discovery and Development (ITDD), a comprehensive drug discovery and development center. The Institute provides scientific services to both academic and business communities and supports translational medicine via collaborations and contractual work. The ITDD is well-known for its broad range of screening capabilities and offers extensive medicinal chemistry expertise along with GMP scale-up and pre-clinical pharmacology support. 
The role of HTS in drug discovery at the University of Michigan.	High throughput screening (HTS) is an integral part of a highly collaborative approach to drug discovery at the University of Michigan. The HTS lab is one of four core centers that provide services to identify, produce, screen and follow-up on biomedical targets for faculty. Key features of this system are: protein cloning and purification, protein crystallography, small molecule and siRNA HTS, medicinal chemistry and pharmacokinetics. Therapeutic areas that have been targeted include anti-bacterial, metabolic, neurodegenerative, cardiovascular, anti-cancer and anti-viral. The centers work in a coordinated, interactive environment to affordably provide academic investigators with the technology, informatics and expertise necessary for successful drug discovery. This review provides an overview of these centers at the University of Michigan, along with case examples of successful collaborations with faculty. 
Implementation of quality management in early stages of research and development projects at a university.	The ultimate objective of university research and development projects is usually to create knowledge, but also to successfully transfer results to industry for subsequent marketing. We hypothesized that the university technology transfer requires efficient measures to improve this important step. Besides good scientific practice, foresighted and industry-specific adapted documentation of research processes in terms of a quality management system might improve the technology transfer. In order to bridge the gap between research institute and cooperating industry, a model project has been accompanied by a project specific amount of quality management. However, such a system had to remain manageable and must not constrain the researchers' creativity. Moreover, topics and research team are strongly interdisciplinary, which entails difficulties regarding communication because of different perspectives and terminology. In parallel to the technical work of the model project, an adaptable quality management system with a quality manual, defined procedures, and forms and documents accompanying the research, development and validation was implemented. After process acquisition and analysis the appropriate amount of management for the model project was identified by a self-developed rating system considering project characteristics like size, innovation, stakeholders, interdisciplinarity, etc. Employees were trained according to their needs. The management was supported and the technical documentation was optimized. Finally, the quality management system has been transferred successfully to further projects.
High throughput screening operations at the University of Kansas.	The High Throughput Screening Laboratory at University of Kansas plays a critical role in advancing academic interest in the identification of chemical probes as tools to better understand the biological and biochemical basis of new therapeutic targets. The HTS laboratory has an open service policy and collaborates with internal and external academia as well as for-profit organizations to execute projects requiring HTS-compatible assay development and screening of chemical libraries for target validation, probe selection, hit identification and lead optimization. 
UCLA's Molecular Screening Shared Resource: enhancing small molecule discovery with functional genomics and new technology.	The Molecular Screening Shared Resource (MSSR) offers a comprehensive range of leading-edge high throughput screening (HTS) services including drug discovery, chemical and functional genomics, and novel methods for nano and environmental toxicology. The MSSR is an open access environment with investigators from UCLA as well as from the entire globe. Industrial clients are equally welcome as are non-profit entities. The MSSR is a fee-for-service entity and does not retain intellectual property. In conjunction with the Center for Environmental Implications of Nanotechnology, the MSSR is unique in its dedicated and ongoing efforts towards high throughput toxicity testing of nanomaterials. In addition, the MSSR engages in technology development eliminating bottlenecks from the HTS workflow and enabling novel assays and readouts currently not available. 
UCSF Small Molecule Discovery Center: innovation, collaboration and chemical biology in the Bay Area.	The Small Molecule Discovery Center (SMDC) at the University of California, San Francisco, works collaboratively with the scientific community to solve challenging problems in chemical biology and drug discovery. The SMDC includes a high throughput screening facility, medicinal chemistry, and research labs focused on fundamental problems in biochemistry and targeted drug delivery. Here, we outline our HTS program and provide examples of chemical tools developed through SMDC collaborations. We have an active research program in developing quantitative cell-based screens for primary cells and whole organisms; here, we describe whole-organism screens to find drugs against parasites that cause neglected tropical diseases. We are also very interested in target-based approaches for so-called "undruggable", protein classes and fragment-based lead discovery. This expertise has led to several pharmaceutical collaborations; additionally, the SMDC works with start-up companies to enable their early-stage research. The SMDC, located in the biotech-focused Mission Bay neighborhood in San Francisco, is a hub for innovative small-molecule discovery research at UCSF. 
The technology development studio of the MPI-CBG: an open access cell-based screening facility.	In the past decade, academic screening centers have been created in many universities worldwide. Most of these screening centers are organized as core facilities that accept projects from both within their organization and from external users in order to maximize staff and instrument usage. The Max Planck Institute of Molecular Cell Biology and Genetics in Dresden, Germany, also created such a screening facility named the Technology Development Studio (TDS). The mission of the facility is to provide cell based screening services focused on high resolution confocal imaging. The acquisition of high resolution images allows the mathematical description of cells with image analysis to a high degree of precision. This precision in turn allows classifying phenotypes accurately and compare different cellular treatments to discover underlying mechanisms. 
Alcohol medications development: advantages and caveats of government/academia collaborating with the pharmaceutical industry.	The process of developing pharmacological treatments for alcohol use disorder is notoriously complex and challenging. The path to market is long, costly, and inefficient. One way of expediting and reducing the drug development process is through collaborations-building partnerships among government, academia, pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, healthcare organizations and advocacy groups, and the patients (end consumers) themselves. By forging collaborations, particularly with pharmaceutical companies, the alcohol treatment field stands to reap benefits in generating new medications for use in mainstream treatment settings. At the same time, there are certain caveats that should be considered, particularly by academic researchers, before entering into such partnerships. This commentary examines the advantages and caveats of government and academia collaborations with pharmaceutical companies. 
The commitment to influential nursing administration research: an interview with Dr Donna Sullivan Havens.	This department highlights nursing leaders who have demonstrated a commitment to nursing leadership in research, practice, policy, education and theory. This interview profiles Donna Sullivan Havens, PhD, RN, FAAN, professor, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. 
The Sheffield RNAi Screening Facility (SRSF): portfolio growth and technology development.	The Sheffield RNAi Screening Facility (SRSF) (www.rnai.group.shef.ac.uk) was established in 2008 with Wellcome Trust and University of Sheffield funding, with the task to provide the first UK RNAi screening resource for academic groups interested in identifying genes required in a diverse range of biological processes using Drosophila cell culture. The SRSF has carried out a wide range of screens varying in sizes from bespoke small-scale libraries, targeting a few hundred genes, to high-throughput, genome-wide studies. The SRSF has grown and improved with a dedicated partnership of its academic customers based mainly in the UK. We are part of the UK Academics Functional Genomics Network, participating in organizing an annual meeting in London and are part of the University of Sheffield's D3N (www.d3n.org.uk), connecting academics, biotech and pharmaceutical companies with a multidisciplinary network in Drug Discovery and Development. Recently, the SRSF has been funded by the Yorkshire Cancer Research Fund to perform genome-wide RNAi screens using human cells as part of a core facility for regional Yorkshire Universities and screens are now underway. Overall the SRSF has carried out more than 40 screens from Drosophila and human cell culture experiments. 
Collaboration: a critical viewpoint.	Post-graduate nursing education in Victoria, until recently, has been conducted as certificate level courses within hospital-based programs. These programs have traditionally drawn on the clinical experience, the supervision and the teaching provided by the resources within the hospital. This article describes the nature of a collaborative venture, involving regional hospitals and the university, and the challenges that emerged during the introduction of a post-graduate critical care course. Issues arising out of the course evaluation, which was conducted after the first year of the program elaborate aspects of the beginning nature of a collaborative venture. These issues include the different emphases and expectations of skills and knowledge, perceived as relevant to critical care practice. Some of the difficulties encountered by the students are raised. We employ the concepts of liberal and vocational/professional education to explore the ways in which present tensions signify what we have discovered to be an old pedagogical debate. The particular meanings we have as a profession when we speak about education are explored in the context of critical care education and collaborative practice.
Academia as partner in organizational change.	Partnerships are valuable strategies for promoting organizational change. Collaboration between academia and service can provide rapid access to new clinical service delivery mechanisms and real-world laboratories for implementing and testing novel approaches to care delivery. Academic-service partnerships also provide opportunities for work force development. One example of a partnership is described in this article. Details of a Nursing Care Management Institute illustrate principles of good practice for community-campus partnerships.
Outlines of the immunological research in the Institute of Microbiology; Semmelweis Medical University.	The working group on immunology under the leadership of Pl Fldes began its activity with poliovirus studies during the severe epidemics of 1957. It was he who first in Hungary isolated poliovirus strain from patients [1]. His colleague was Ilona, Szeri who had gained her first experiences in virology at Jzsef Sinkovics's virus laboratory. Then Zsuzsanna Bnos and Piroska Anderlik joined them and became permanent members of the working group on immunology. Since 1965 with the leadership of Ilona Szeri, they have been conducting basic researches into immunology for over three decades at the Institute, with a wide sphere of collaborators. Research has been intended to acquire more thorough and precise knowledge of the role in immunobiology of the thymus and lymphoid system and of pathogenesis of the wasting syndrome as well as of interactions of the microorganisms and the organism. The most significant results are going to be summed up in the following.
