Bloodborne infections: should they be disclosed? Is differential treatment necessary?	There are students and staff in many schools with hepatitis B, hepatitis C, or HIV infections. Should parents or guardians be expected to disclose students' bloodborne infections to school officials? Can infected students play contact sports given the increased risk of blood spills? What type of response plan should schools develop in the event of a blood spill to protect student health and privacy? This article summarizes the policies and approaches that the federal government and medical, school nursing, teacher, and parent organizations have taken on these issues. It suggests strategies school nurses can employ to protect the civil rights, privacy, and health of all students and school staff.
State regulations and the HIV-positive health care professional: a response to a problem that does not exist.	An announcement in July 1990 concerning the possible transmission of the Human Immunodeficiency Virus from an HIV-positive health care professional to a patient launched a public outcry for patient protection from acquiring HIV from health care professionals. As a result of numerous debates, Congress issued a mandate requiring the states to adopt the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's guidelines concerning HIV-positive health care professionals or an equivalent policy. This Note explores the regulations and guidelines established by various states in response to this mandate. The author concludes that policies requiring adherence to universal precautions within the health care setting, and not mandatory testing of health care professionals or mandatory disclosure of their HIV status, are best for protecting public health.
Legal considerations in infectious diseases and dentistry.	Dentists, similar to other professionals subject to legal regulation, often have an overly simple view of the legal system. Communicable diseases present questions on the cutting edge of the law, and, as the previous discussion makes perhaps painfully clear, there is considerable uncertainty on many important legal points. Legal uncertainty is often a reflection of social or scientific uncertainty. Clear answers emerge less from the words of lawyers and judges than from the actions of professionals themselves, who ultimately set the standard of care. In any area of legal uncertainty, the dentist is best advised to adhere to the best scientific information available and to meet the ethical standards of the profession.
