Obligatory medical insurance in Russia: the participants' perspective.	The Russian Federation adopted a nation-wide system of obligatory medical insurance in 1993 in an effort to earmark a targeted source of funding for health care and to reverse a steep decline in health outcomes. The author conducted a survey in 1995-1996 of managers of two of the new institutional participants in Russia's health insurance scheme: Territorial Health Insurance Funds and private medical insurance companies. The survey results reveal deep dissatisfaction with the level of financing provided by the new system; continuing confusion and substantial regional variation in the implementation of the insurance legislation; fierce bureaucratic and institutional infighting between the major players, stemming primarily from controversy over delineation of responsibilities and ongoing battles for control over resources; promising hints of competition and other market-based incentives emerging from the current chaos; and broad agreement that further structural reform must accompany increased infusions of resources in order for significant systemic improvements to be realized.
The desirability and feasibility of scaling up community health insurance in low-income settings--lessons from Armenia.	There is growing evidence that community financing mechanisms can raise additional revenue, increase equitable access to primary health care (PHC), and improve social protection. More recently there has been interest in scaling up community financing as a step towards universal coverage either via tax-based systems or social health insurance. Using key informant interviews and focus group discussions, this study sought to assess the desirability and feasibility of scaling-up community health insurance in Armenia. The results suggest that there is broad-based political support for scaling up the schemes and that community financing is synergistic with major health sector reforms. High levels of social capital within the rural communities should facilitate scaling up. Existing schemes have increased access and quality of care, but expansion of coverage is constrained by affordability, poor infrastructure, and weak linkages with the broader health system. Long-term subsidies and system-building will be essential if the expanded schemes are to be financially viable and pro-poor. Overall, successfully scaling up community financing in Armenia would depend on addressing a range of obstacles related to legislation, institutional capacity, human resources and resistance to change among certain stakeholders.
Pay, pride, and public purpose: why America's doctors should support universal healthcare.	Discussion of universal healthcare is nothing new for US politicians or among reform advocates, policy experts, or the general public. Physicians, however, have been minor voices in the discussion. Their relative silence has been detrimental both to the public and to physicians themselves. We pose 3 arguments as to why physicians should support universal access grounded in medicine's own self-interest, arguments that are largely ignored in the current debate. These are: (1) the need for paying patients, (2) the need for a sense of self-esteem rooted in professionalism rather than commercialism, and (3) the urgency to affirm a public purpose for medicine by promoting the nation's health through universal care. Who has a stake in universal healthcare? Some groups, such as those lacking insurance, are obviously at risk and have a keen interest. Others, such as insured workers, have a less obvious but demonstrable concern. Arguments that urge adoption of an inclusive system typically focus on "healthcare horror stories" designed to evoke sympathy for the unfortunate persons whose lives are forever changed by unmet health needs or unpaid health bills. Our focus is different. We ask, regarding universal healthcare, "What's in it for physicians?" While the active support of doctors may not be a sufficient force to change the US system, it is probably a necessary one. At a minimum, universal coverage will be far less likely if physicians are opposed to it. Our aim here is to explore and discuss some of the reasons that should motivate active physician involvement in a more just and equitable system. We will discuss 3 reasons in particular. They are: (1) the need for paying patients; (2) the need to take pride in what one does--that is, the need to be nurtured by recognition of skillful professional performance in medical work, and not just rewarded monetarily; and (3) the importance of embracing a public purpose for medicine and thus engaging the trust and esteem of the population. We will examine each of these in turn, but first we will discuss briefly the other constituencies for universal coverage, since their reasons for supporting an inclusive system are often shared by doctors.
Healthcare systems and motivation.	Despite the fact that most American physicians, at least until around the 1970s, stood in the way of developing a universal healthcare system, most are generally not happy with the current state of healthcare--or its lack thereof--today. The primary reasons for this general unhappiness are that insurance companies and managed care have successfully conspired to remove much of the physician's autonomy (via imposed time constraints, burdensome paperwork, the time-consuming chore of having to defend going against stringent treatment algorithms that are often inappropriate for some patients) and the satisfaction of knowing their patients. Few physicians in managed care organizations (MCOs) are able to practice without constant and blindly algorithmic interference concerning the diagnostic tests and therapeutic interventions they order. As copayments have increased, they often find that patients, even though "covered," cannot afford the therapy they deem necessary. While physicians expect to earn sufficient to pay back their not insignificant educational debts, provide their children with help through college, and assure retirements sufficient for themselves and their spouses, these should not be considered unreasonable expectations. Most physicians today do favor universal healthcare -- to the point of having included such language in their various professional codes of ethics (which, perversely enough, bioethicists as a group have failed to do). Contrary to the claims of our colleagues, Altom and Churchill, physicians seem to be genuinely frustrated as to what else they can do to change the current inequitable system.
Consumer price sensitivity in Dutch health insurance.	To estimate the price sensitivity of consumer choice of health insurance firm.
Measuring coverage for seniors in Medicare Part A and estimating the cost of making it universal.	That Medicare is universal for seniors is widely accepted by leading analysts. But in the context of developing detailed policies that seek to cover as many people as possible, it is inaccurate to make Medicare eligibility sound so simple and inclusive. To estimate the number of seniors without full federal Medicare Part A coverage, we examined data for uninsured seniors, seniors with Medicaid and no Medicare coverage of any kind, seniors with Medicare Part B but without Part A, and seniors bought into Part A by their state Medicaid programs. We found that in 2005, 1.6 million seniors--or 5 percent of the elderly U.S. population--were without a full federal Part A premium subsidy. The share of seniors without this benefit was notably higher in the nation's two largest states--California (12 percent) and New York (8 percent). We estimate that reforming Medicare Part A to make the benefit truly universal and fully federal would cost the federal government $6 billion in new spending in federal fiscal year 2011, an increase in baseline federal Medicare expenditures of 1.1 percent.
Evidence-based decision-making in Asia-Pacific with rapidly changing health-care systems: Thailand, South Korea, and Taiwan.	To review the use of evidence in the market approval process, reimbursement, and price control mechanisms for medicines and medical devices in Thailand, South Korea, and Taiwan.
Moving towards universal health insurance in China: performance, issues and lessons from Thailand.	China is now in the course of implementing a new round of health system reforms. Universal health insurance coverage through the basic social medical insurance system is high on the reform agenda. This paper examines the performance of China's current social medical insurance system in terms of revenue collection, risk pooling, the benefit package, and provider payment mechanisms based on a literature review and publicly available data. On the basis of critical assessment, the paper attempts to address the issues challenging China as it moves towards universal coverage. Focusing in particular on the reform experience in Thailand as it implemented universal coverage, the following policy implications for further reform in China are articulated, taking into account China's particular circumstances: firstly, the gaps in the benefit package across different schemes should be further reduced; secondly, the prevailing fee-for-service payment system needs to be transformed; thirdly, the primary health care delivery and referral system needs to be strengthened in coordination with the reform of the health insurance system; and fourthly, raising the risk pooling level and integrating fragmented insurance schemes should be long-run objectives of reform.
Hospitalization rates for immigrant-related illness among individuals with low income and full health insurance coverage in France, 2009]	Complementary Universal Health Insurance (CMUC) which provides free access to health care has been available in France since 2000 for people with an annual income less than 60% of the poverty threshold. Hospitalization rates in 2009 for common diseases among immigrants were compared between beneficiaries of the general scheme under the age of 60 years with (4.5 millions) or without CMUC (34.1 millions) in 2008 and still alive at the end of the year. Data were derived from the French national health insurance reimbursements and short-stay hospital discharge databases. Age - and sex-adjusted hospitalization rates and relative risk significantly greater overall hospitalization rates (17.5% vs 13.2%) (males RR= 2.0, female RR 2.3) and each parasitic diseases (RR = 2.1), which include viral diseases and fevers of unknown origin (1.1/1000, RR =1.6), septicaemia (0.4/1000, RR = 2.2), HIV infection (0.7/1000, RR = 3.5), other infectious and parasitic diseases (0.7/1000, RR= 2.5) and, more precisely, measles (2.7/1000, RR = 5.0). Hospitalization for sickle cell disease (3%, RR = 4.5) were also more frequent as also for lead poisoning (0.12/1000, RR = 5.2). In this low-income population with free access to health care, hospitalizations were higher for many diseases that are targets for prevention and screening actions. This is tha case for immigrant with CMUC coverage arriving in France and when they travel to their country of origin.
Sustainability of Korean National Health Insurance.	Korean National Health Insurance (NHI) was established during only 12 yr from its inception (1977-1989), providing universal medical coverage to the entire nation and making a huge contribution to medical security. However, the program now faces many challenges in terms of sustainability. The low birth rates, aging population, low economic growth, and escalating demands for welfare, as well as unification issues, all add pressure to the sustainability of NHI. The old paradigm of low contribution--low benefits coverage--low NHI's fee schedule needs to be replaced by a new paradigm of proper contribution--adequate benefit coverage--fair NHI's fee schedule. This new paradigm will require reform of NHI's operating system, funding, and spending.
Towards universal health coverage: an evaluation of Rwanda Mutuelles in its first eight years.	Mutuelles is a community-based health insurance program, established since 1999 by the Government of Rwanda as a key component of the national health strategy on providing universal health care. The objective of the study was to evaluate the impact of Mutuelles on achieving universal coverage of medical services and financial risk protection in its first eight years of implementation.
Evaluation of supply-side initiatives to improve access to coronary bypass surgery.	Guided by the evidence that delaying coronary revascularization may lead to symptom worsening and poorer clinical outcomes, expansion in cardiac surgery capacity has been recommended in Canada. Provincial governments started providing one-time and recurring increases in budgets for additional open heart surgeries to reduce waiting times. We sought to determine whether the year of decision to proceed with non-emergency coronary bypass surgery had an effect on time to surgery.
Promoting universal financial protection: how the Thai universal coverage scheme was designed to ensure equity.	Empirical evidence demonstrates that the Thai Universal Coverage Scheme (UCS) has improved equity of health financing and provided a relatively high level of financial risk protection. Several UCS design features contribute to these outcomes: a tax-financed scheme, a comprehensive benefit package and gradual extension of coverage to illnesses that can lead to catastrophic household costs, and capacity of the National Health Security Office (NHSO) to mobilise adequate resources. This study assesses the policy processes related to making decisions on these features.
Impact of Thailand universal coverage scheme on the country's health information systems and health information technology.	Thailand achieved universal healthcare coverage with the implementation of the Universal Coverage Scheme (UCS) in 2001. This study employed qualitative method to explore the impact of the UCS on the country's health information systems (HIS) and health information technology (HIT) development. The results show that health insurance beneficiary registration system helps improve providers' service workflow and country vital statistics. Implementation of casemix financing tool, Thai Diagnosis-Related Groups, has stimulated health providers' HIS and HIT capacity building, data and medical record quality and the adoption of national administrative data standards. The system called "Disease Management Information Systems" aiming at reimbursement for select diseases increased the fragmentation of HIS and increase burden on data management to providers. The financial incentive of outpatient data quality improvement project enhance providers' HIS and HIT investment and also induce data fraudulence tendency. Implementation of UCS has largely brought favorable impact on the country HIS and HIT development. However, the unfavorable effects are also evident. 
