Socio-cultural factors affecting the spread of HIV/AIDS in Africa: a case study.	There is a disproportionate share of AIDS cases over the years in Africa. This has occurred in racial and ethnic minority populations, a finding likely related to social, economic and cultural factors. Certain socio-cultural and religious practices such as polygamy and giving a daughter away in marriage without considering the social life of the man are likely contributory factors to the higher prevalence of HIV/AIDS in women in this part of the world. This is illustrated with a case of Mr. M. S. who married two wives within four months interval, having lived a promiscuous life before marriage. One of the wives was a virgin at the time of marriage. Neither of wives had any symptoms suggestive of STD or HIV before marriage, however, the three of them tested positive to HIV-1 following a visit to the special treatment clinic. He had genital herpes and his two wives also had vulvovaginal candidiasis, genital herpes and condyloma accuminata (genital warts). The husband would not want his HIV status declared to the wives. There is therefore a need to enact law on pre-marriage HIV screening for intending couples. Couple Pre-and post-test counseling must be encouraged and promoted. In addition, women should be empowered to negotiate safer sex.
The association between gang involvement and sexual behaviours among detained adolescent males.	Data were collected from 270 detained male adolescents (aged 14-18 years) to determine the association between ever having been in a gang and a range of sexual behaviours such as sexual activity, male condom use, sex with multiple partners, and drug use during sex.
Trends in sexual behaviour among London homosexual men 1998-2003: implications for HIV prevention and sexual health promotion.	To examine changes in sexual behaviour among London homosexual men between 1998 and 2003 by type and HIV status of partner.
HIV related behaviours and attitudes among Chinese men who have sex with men in Hong Kong: a population based study.	This study was conducted in order to determine the prevalence of men having sex with men (MSM) and their HIV related behaviours and attitudes among Chinese men in Hong Kong.
Lessons from the syphilis outbreak in homosexual men in east London.	To describe the epidemiology, presentation, and diagnosis of early syphilis in 103 homosexual men in east London.
Don't ask, don't tell: patterns of HIV disclosure among HIV positive men who have sex with men with recent STI practising high risk behaviour in Los Angeles and Seattle.	A high incidence of HIV continues among men who have sex with men (MSM) in industrialised nations and research indicates many MSM do not disclose their HIV status to sex partners. Themes as to why MSM attending sexually transmitted infection (STI) clinics in Los Angeles and Seattle do and do not disclose their HIV status are identified.
HIV, syphilis infection, and sexual practices among transgenders, male sex workers, and other men who have sex with men in Jakarta, Indonesia.	To establish the prevalence of HIV, syphilis, and sexual risk behaviour among three groups of men who have sex with men in Jakarta, Indonesia, and to investigate sexual links between these men and broader heterosexual populations.
Changes in regular condom use among immigrant transsexuals attending a counselling and testing reference site in central Rome: a 12 year study.	To analyse data from male to female transsexuals attending between 1992 and 2003 an outpatient clinic considered the main HIV counselling and testing site in Rome for foreign people.
Cost-effectiveness of HIV postexposure prophylaxis following sexual or injection drug exposure in 96 metropolitan areas in the United States.	To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of HIV postexposure prophylaxis (PEP) following sexual or injection-related exposures in 96 metropolitan statistical areas in the United States (MSA).
Antiretroviral resistance and high-risk transmission behavior among HIV-positive patients in clinical care.	HIV-positive patients receiving antiretroviral therapy (ART) who engage in HIV transmission behaviors may harbor and transmit drug-resistant HIV. However, little is known about the risk behaviors of these patients, potential partners exposed and the relationship of these to ART resistance.
Adolescents' reports of parental knowledge of adolescents' use of sexual health services and their reactions to mandated parental notification for prescription contraception.	Legislation has been proposed that would mandate parental notification for adolescents younger than 18 years (minors) obtaining prescription contraception from federally funded family planning clinics.
Prevalence and correlates of crack-cocaine injection among young injection drug users in the United States, 1997-1999.	We estimated prevalence and identified correlates of crack-cocaine injection among young injection drug users in the United States.
Factors related to childhood sexual abuse among gay/bisexual male Internet escorts.	This exploratory investigation examined the relationship between childhood sexual abuse (CSA) and related psychosocial characteristics and sexual behaviors among 46 gay/bisexual male escorts who advertise via the Internet. More than a quarter of men (28.3%) reported some history of CSA. Men reporting CSA were more likely to be from an ethnic minority group, identify as bisexual, have a primary male partner, and were less likely to identify an anal receptive ("bottom") sexual role preference. Men with a history of CSA were more likely to report unprotected sex with work-related partners, increased internalized homophobia, and decreased adolescent isolation. Interventions designed for male escorts with a history of CSA should emphasize safer sex strategies with work partners and reducing internalized homophobia.
Assessing the secular trends in the transmission of HIV in Greece.	To evaluate the current trends in HIV transmission in Greece.
HIV in East London: ethnicity, gender and risk. Design and methods.	While men who have sex with men remain the group at greatest risk of acquiring HIV infection in the UK, the number of new diagnoses among heterosexuals has risen steadily over the last five years. In the UK, three-quarters of heterosexual men and women diagnosed with HIV in 2004 probably acquired their infection in Africa. This changing epidemiological pattern is particularly pronounced in East London because of its ethnically diverse population.
Behavioural predictors of subsequent hepatitis C diagnosis in a UK clinic sample of HIV positive men who have sex with men.	To explore the associations between self reported high risk sexual behaviours and subsequent diagnosis with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection.
Migrant men: a priority for HIV control in Pakistan?	To assess sexual risk behaviour and prevalence of treatable sexually transmitted infections (STI) in migrant male workers in Lahore, Pakistan.
International travel and sexually transmitted diseases.	Despite concerted efforts to control sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) worldwide, they still remain a major public health problem. Out of the 25 organisms known to be transmitted sexually, travelers are at greater risk of acquiring HIV and other STDs in developing countries in view of the high prevalence rates in these countries, particularly after sexual exposure to local commercial sex workers (CSWs). Some of the STDs acquired during international travel are more likely to be resistant to standard antimicrobial regimens for the STDs. HIV, gonorrhoea, syphilis, non-specific urethritis, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, and other STDs are a significant risk for travelers who engage in unprotected sex, especially with overseas CSWs. It is recognized that barrier contraceptives provide considerable protection against STDs, but they are not regarded as 100% protective. Sexual abstinence and sexual monogamy with a 'known' partner carry a much lower risk than the safest of 'safer sex' practices. However, in the event of a sexual exposure to a new partner in the country being visited, prior hepatitis B immunization and the consistent and proper use of a latex condom are strongly advised, followed by proper medical investigations and physical examination on returning home, before sexual activity is resumed.
Rectal lymphogranuloma venereum surveillance in France 2004-2005.	Lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) is a sexually transmitted infection (STI) caused by Chlamydia trachomatis strains belonging to the L1, L2 or L3 genotype. An alert about an outbreak of LGV among MSM in the Netherlands was published in January 2004. The first cases of rectal LGV in France were retrospectively diagnosed in March 2004 and sentinel surveillance for LGV was implemented in April 2004. Most of the participating centres were located in the cities of Paris and Bordeaux. Only confirmed rectal LGV cases were included in the surveillance. Rectal specimens from men that were found to be positive for C trachomatis by PCR were sent to the National Reference Centre for Chlamydia infection for genotyping. Simple epidemiological data provided by clinicians and genotyping results were sent to the Institut de Veille Sanitaire (InVS) where data were anonymously recorded. A total of 328 C. trachomatis rectal strains isolated in men were genotyped by the end of December 2005. Of these, 244 (74%) were LGV strains belonging to the L2 genotype. No L1 or L3 C. trachomatis genotype was found. Diagnosis was made retrospectively for 46 cases. The median age of patients with LGV was 39 years. HIV status was known for 96 patients: 82/96 (85%) were HIV-infected. Most LGV cases were diagnosed in the Paris area (92%). Among the remaining 26% C. trachomatis strains, genotypes Da and G were the most frequent. As with syphilis in recent years, the emergence of LGV in Europe is mainly affecting HIV-infected MSM. The screening and treatment of STIs should be included in the clinical follow-up of all HIV-infected MSM.
HIV incidence increasing in MSM in Germany: factors influencing infection dynamics.	After an initial peak in the mid-1980s, HIV incidence in men who have sex with men (MSM) declined in most western industrialised countries and then levelled off during the 1990s. Since the late 1990s, increasing numbers of newly diagnosed HIV infections in MSM have been observed in the majority of countries with large and visible MSM communities. Based on a review of national and international behavioural surveillance studies of MSM and national HIV surveillance data, we propose a model for the HIV epidemic in MSM in Germany. The model includes aspects such as individuals' increasing numbers of sexual partners and increasing frequency of unprotected anal intercourse, conditional condom use based on real or perceived HIV status of sexual partners (HIV "serosorting") and sexual role assignments (insertive versus receptive based on HIV status (HIV "seropositioning"), selection of partners and formation of sexual networks through seeking sexual partners on the internet, the introduction of HAART and changing HAART treatment strategies. All these aspects have been shown or are suspected to increase or decrease HIV transmission risk in MSM. We conclude that increasing HIV incidence in MSM in recent years has been fuelled by a spread of HIV in high-risk sexual networks with an increasing proportion of infections transmitted during highly infective early HIV infection, acquired mostly from casual sexual partners.
Lymphogranuloma venereum emerging in men who have sex with men in Germany.	A resurgence of lymphogranuloma venereum (LGV) has been observed in several European countries. LGV is not a mandatorily notifiable disease in Germany. Reports of LGV cases have actively been collected by the Robert Koch-Institut since 2004 to describe the outbreak and estimate the extent of the LGV problem in Germany. Updates on the LGV outbreak were published in the German national epidemiological bulletin. Physicians were asked to send their samples to a laboratory for genotyping. A possible case was defined as a person with symptoms of proctitis and/or inguinal lymph node swelling and a positive chlamydia serology. A probable case had in addition a positive chlamydia rectal or urinary PCR test. A case was confirmed if the genotype L1-L3 was identified based on sequence analysis of omp1 gene sequences. Since 2003, LGV has been reported in 78 male patients in Germany. Of these, 61 patients were confirmed as genotype L2. Fifty eight out of 78 patients (74%) are known to be men who have sex with men (MSM). Fifty five patients (71%) had rectal symptoms and 49 (63%) knew they were HIV positive. Sixty two (79%) of the patients were residents of Berlin or Hamburg. LGV has emerged in MSM in Germany at the same time as in other European countries. It is thought that LGV may become endemic in the MSM community in German metropolitan areas, because the number of reported patients with LGV continues to increase. The increase in the number of LGV cases and the high HIV prevalence in LGV patients are of great public health concern. Clinicians and MSM may not be sufficiently aware of the disease, and existing efforts to promote awareness and prevention of sexually transmitted infections and HIV need to be strengthened.
A slow epidemic of LGV in the Netherlands in 2004 and 2005.	In 2004, an outbreak of LGV was detected in MSM in the Netherlands. By January 2006, 179 confirmed cases of LGV had been reported; 65 (retrospectively) in 2002/2003, 76 in 2004 and 38 in 2005. The evolution of the LGV outbreak appears to have slowed down and only a few cases were found in the first months of 2006.
Arrest history as an indicator of adolescent/young adult substance use and HIV risk.	Juvenile offenders are particularly at risk for HIV because of their substantially high rates of risk behaviors, high rates of substance use disorders and psychopathology. Most studies have focused on risk behaviors among incarcerated youth. This study sought to determine if an arrest history could serve as a marker for HIV risk and substance abuse among a community-based sample of high-risk adolescents and young adults. Adolescents (N=1400; mean age=18 years) who participated in a larger multi-site HIV prevention program in three states (GA, FL and RI) provided baseline data on sexual risk, substance use, attitudes and mental health history. Participants were grouped as arrestees (N=404) and non-arrestees (N=996) based on self-reported arrest history. Juvenile arrestees reported more alcohol and drug use, substance use during sex, unprotected sex acts, STI diagnoses, suicide attempts and psychiatric hospitalizations than non-arrestees. Having an arrest history may serve as a marker for adolescent HIV risk and substance abuse. Effectively screening adolescents for legal history and responding to the psychosocial and health needs of these high-risk adolescents could increase necessary engagement in substance use and mental health treatment, reduce HIV risk in the community, and reduce costs to the legal, medical and mental health systems.
Factors associated with HIV/AIDS high-risk behaviours among female injection drug users.	This study examined factors associated with reporting engaging in HIV/AIDS high-risk behaviours at two different time points spaced one year apart for a sample of 185 women who were active injection drug users (IDUs). The high-risk behaviours included injecting drugs in the past six months, having shared needles in the past six months and having engaged in unprotected sexual activity in the past thirty days. Through logistic regression modelling it was identified that living with a spouse at year one was significantly and positively associated with high-risk behaviours at both time points. Being prescribed medications for psychological or emotional problems as well as testing positive for the HIV/AIDS virus were significantly and negatively associated with reporting high-risk behaviours at both time points. These results suggest that spousal relationships may play an important role in HIV/AIDS high-risk behaviours of women drug users. An implication of this study is the need to focus on how spousal relationships and issues such as gender and empowerment should be incorporated into the design and implementation of HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment programs. The benefits of comprehensive mental health diagnosis and treatment services as well as HIV testing in reducing harm to female IDUs and their partners are also discussed.
Awareness of non-occupational HIV postexposure prophylaxis among French people living with HIV: the need for better targeting.	Since 1998, French HIV prevention guidelines have recommended the use of HIV post-exposure prophylaxis (PEP) after unprotected sex with a HIV-positive partner who should be informed about this option. This study analysed factors associated with PEP awareness in a population of individuals living with HIV/AIDS (PLHAs).
Alcohol use and sexual risks for HIV/AIDS in sub-Saharan Africa: systematic review of empirical findings.	Alcohol consumption is associated with risks for sexually transmitted infections (STI), including HIV/AIDS. In this paper, we systematically review the literature on alcohol use and sexual risk behavior in southern Africa, the region of the world with the greatest HIV/AIDS burden. Studies show a consistent association between alcohol use and sexual risks for HIV infection. Among people who drink, greater quantities of alcohol consumption predict greater sexual risks than does frequency of drinking. In addition, there are clear gender differences in alcohol use and sexual risks; men are more likely to drink and engage in higher risk behavior whereas women's risks are often associated with their male sex partners' drinking. Factors that are most closely related to alcohol and sexual risks include drinking venues and alcohol serving establishments, sexual coercion, and poverty. Research conducted in southern Africa therefore confirms an association between alcohol use and sexual risks for HIV. Sexual risk reduction interventions are needed for men and women who drink and interventions should be targeted to alcohol serving establishments.
Concepts of risk among young Swedes tested negative for HIV in primary care.	To explore why young adults test for HIV, how they construct the HIV risk, and what implications testing has for them.
Behavioral surveillance among people at risk for HIV infection in the U.S.: the National HIV Behavioral Surveillance System.	The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, in collaboration with 25 state and local health departments, began the National HIV Behavioral Surveillance System (NHBS) in 2003. The system focuses on people at risk for HIV infection and surveys the three populations at highest risk for HIV in the United States: men who have sex with men, injecting drug users, and high-risk heterosexuals. The project collects information from these three populations during rotating 12-month cycles. Methods for recruiting participants vary for each at-risk population, but NHBS uses a standardized protocol and core questionnaire for each cycle. Participating health departments tailor their questionnaire to collect information about specific prevention programs offered in their geographic area and to address local data needs. Data collected from NHBS will be used to describe trends in key behavioral risk indicators and evaluate current HIV prevention programs. This information in turn can be used to identify gaps in prevention services and target new prevention activities with the goal of reducing new HIV infections in the United States.
The acceptability and feasibility of the Positive Reinforcement Opportunity Project, a community-based contingency management methamphetamine treatment program for gay and bisexual men in San Francisco.	The Positive Reinforcement Opportunity Project (PROP) was a pilot program developed to build on the efficacy of contingency management (CM) using positive reinforcement to address the treatment needs of gay and bisexual men currently using crystal methamphetamines (meth). It was hypothesized that a version of CM could be implemented in San Francisco that was less costly than traditional treatment methods and reached gay and other MSM using meth who also engaged in high-risk sexual activity. Of the 178 men who participated in PROPfrom December 2003 to December 2005, many self-reported behaviors for acquiring and spreading sexually transmitted diseases including HIV infection. During the initial intake, 73% reported high-risk sexual behavior in the prior three months, with 60% reporting anal receptive and/or insertive sex without condoms. This report describes the implementation of PROP and suggest both its limitations and potential strengths. Initial findings suggest that PROP was a useful and low cost substance use treatment option that resulted in a 35% 90-day completion rate, which is similar to graduation rates from traditional, more costly treatment options. Further evaluation of the limited data from three- and six-month follow-up of those who completed PROP is currently ongoing.
Knowledge, attitude and practices of emergency contraception among beneficiaries and providers.	In the new millennium emergency contraceptives have become one of the effective methods for control of global population. It can avert many unwanted pregnancies. In the present study the authors have tried to evaluate the knowledge, attitude and practice of different methods of contraceptive techniques available at present and also about the emergency contraceptive which is recently available amongst 140 healthcare providers and 480 beneficiaries. In one of the teaching institution of Kolkata, RG Kar Medical College and in the district of 24 Parganas (N), the participants in the study were evaluated by preset questionnaires which were separate for providers and for beneficiaries. The results were analysed subsequently.
Urine-based asymptomatic urethral gonorrhea and chlamydia screening and sexual risk-taking behavior in men who have sex with men in greater Boston.	To assess the prevalence of asymptomatic urethral gonorrhea and chlamydia men who have sex with men (MSM) living in greater Boston, 206 men attending routine medical appointments consented to urine-based chlamydia and gonorrhea screening using urine LCR amplification. Of those screened, 201 patients also completed a seven-question survey to assess sexual risk behaviors associated with urethral sexually transmitted infections. Less than 1% of the asymptomatic patients screened tested positive for urethral chlamydia; none tested positive for urethral gonorrhea. Forty-eight percent reported multiple sexual partners in the 30 days prior to screening, with HIV-infected patients reporting fewer partners and less unprotected insertive anal sex than HIV-uninfected patients. Almost 25% of patients screened used the Internet in the 30 days prior to screening to find a sexual partner. Internet use was associated with increased numbers of sexual partners in the 30 days prior to screening. Findings suggest that asymptomatic urethral chlamydia and gonorrhea may be uncommon in MSM living in the greater Boston area and that the recent rise in the prevalence of sexually transmitted infections may not be due to untreated asymptomatic infections. Increased awareness of STD symptoms among patients and medical providers is critical to timely diagnosis and treatment of STDs in MSM.
Emergency contraception: knowledge and practice of Gondar University students, northwest Ethiopia.	To assess the knowledge and practice of Gondar University students regarding emergency contraceplion.
An interventionist's guide to AIDS behavioral theories.	Although numerous individual-level AIDS behavioral theories (ABTs) exist in the literature, there is currently no consensus as to which theory is most precise in explaining or predicting HIV risk behavior. In the absence of empirical evidence favoring one ABT over another, how should an interventionist go about choosing a theory for one's particular prevention efforts? The current article provides an overview of and conceptually compares 13 ABTs in an attempt to provide guidance regarding this critical decision. A variety of criteria upon which one might judge ABTs are proposed and discussed, including empirical support for variables that make up the theory, whether or not theories are belief-based, AIDS-specific, message-based, intervention-based and behavior or behavioral-change focused. While all of the theories have strengths and weaknesses, the task for an interventionist is to choose the theory of best fit for one's particular prevention efforts. The suggestions provided in the current article may help with such a choice.
Social-cognitive determinants of HIV risk-taking intentions among men who date men through the Internet.	The present study was set up to investigate social-cognitive determinants of HIV-risk precautionary intentions among men who have sex with men (MSM), who meet sex partners on the Internet. Participants were enrolled through the major gay chat room in The Netherlands, www.chatboy.nl, and were asked to complete an online questionnaire. Theory of Planned Behaviour variables attitude, subjective norm, and perceived control explained 55% of the variance in intention to use condoms for anal sex with future e-dates. Adding descriptive norm, personal norm and anticipated regret explained 70%. Sexual fantasies and HIV-status had unique effects on intentions. Differences between high and lower intenders are presented. Limitations of the study are discussed and objectives for an intervention to promote condom use are given.
Discrimination against HIV-infected people and the spread of HIV: some evidence from France.	Many people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) suffer from stigma and discrimination. There is an ongoing debate, however, about whether stigma, fear and discrimination actually fuel the persisting spread of HIV, or slow it down by reducing contacts between the whole population and high-risk minorities. To contribute to this debate, we analysed the relationship between perceived discrimination and unsafe sex in a large sample of French PLWHAs.
An online needs assessment of a virtual community: what men who use the internet to seek sex with men want in Internet-based HIV prevention.	As part of a study to develop effective Internet-based HIV prevention interventions for Men who use the Internet to seek Sex with Men (MISM), we sought information from the target population on; (a) acceptability of sexually explicit media; (b) interest in specific content areas; and (c) identification of credible sources of information. A cross-sectional stratified Internet-based survey design was employed. Between September and November 2005, we recruited 2,716 MISM through Gay.com stratified across race/ethnicity to ensure adequate racial/ethnic diversity. Sixteen Likert-type items assessed acceptability of sexual explicitness, 24 items identified topics for inclusion, and two assessed sources of information. There was near universal acceptability for highly sexually explicit education. Over 75% reported high interest in 10 sexual health topics. HIV positive MISM and MISM engaged in unprotected anal sex with multiple male partners reported significantly less interest in HIV prevention specific content. Differences across age, race/ethnicity and education were identified. Idiosyncratic searches and gay sites were frequently cited sources of information; however blogs, government, and media sites were not. It is acceptable for web-based HIV prevention for MISM to be highly sexually explicit and to provide detailed content relevant to men's sexual health. Since demographic differences in acceptability and content were minor, it is appropriate for interventions to target across demographics. Interventions to re-engage men engaging in high risk and HIV + MISM should be considered. Leading health agencies should review whether their web information is retrievable, credible and useful to those most at risk.
Behavioral counseling to prevent sexually transmitted infections: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation statement.	New U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendations about behavioral counseling of adolescents and adults to prevent sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
Behavioral counseling to prevent sexually transmitted infections: a systematic review for the U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.	Despite advances in prevention and treatment, sexually transmitted infections (STIs) remain an important cause of morbidity and mortality in the United States.
Interpreting sexually transmissible infection prevention trials by adjusting for the magnitude of exposure.	Exposures to sexually transmitted infections are discrete identifiable events. Interventions to prevent sexually transmitted infections have a certain probability of effectiveness in reducing risk in any given event.
Socioeconomic position and HIV risk-relevant behavior among lower-income heterosexuals in San Francisco.	We assess whether there is evidence of an association between socioeconomic position (SEP) and HIV risk-relevant behavior among lower income heterosexual men and women in San Francisco. Respondents residing in low income areas with high heterosexual AIDS case burden in San Francisco were recruited through long-chain referral in 2006-2007. Risk measures included unprotected vaginal intercourse, concurrency and exchange sex. SEP was defined as household annual income, per capita income, and employment. Analyses utilized mixed and fixed effects models. A total of 164 men and 286 women were included in the study. SEP was only significant in the case of exchange sex among men: men reporting annual income greater than $30,000 had significantly lower odds of exchange sex relative to other men. Evaluating the connection between economic status and HIV requires additional studies covering diverse populations. Future studies should focus on community economic context as well as individual SEP.
A longitudinal study of incarceration and HIV risk among methadone maintained men and their primary female partners.	This study examines the longitudinal relationship between personal and sexual partner incarceration and subsequent HIV risk behaviors among drug-involved men and their primary female sexual partners. A random sample of 356 men in methadone treatment in New York City were interviewed at baseline, 6 and 12 months; these men also reported information on their primary female sexual partners. Female partner recent incarceration was associated with subsequent increase in multiple partnerships for the male participants (AOR: 3.31; 95% C.I.: 1.26-8.72, P < .05). Female partner incarceration was also associated with reduced likelihood of subsequent unprotected sex between primary partners (AOR: .13; 95% C.I.: .05-.40, P < .01); this finding is somewhat unique and warrants further investigation. Findings support the notion of mutual influence in the case of female partner incarceration, which is associated with both female partner and male partner risk behaviors. HIV prevention implications are discussed, including the need for couple-based HIV prevention interventions targeting couples affected by incarceration.
A cost-effectiveness analysis of the Chlamydia Monday--a community-based intervention to decrease the prevalence of chlamydia in Sweden.	The study was undertaken to assess the cost-effectiveness of the Chlamydia Monday, 2007. This is a community-based intervention aimed at reducing the prevalence of chlamydia by information and increased availability of testing, treatment and contact tracing in Stockholm. The aim was to analyze the cost-effectiveness by estimating costs, savings and effects on health associated with the intervention, and to determine if cost-effectiveness varies between men and women.
A longitudinal study of sexual risk behavior among the adolescent children of HIV-positive and HIV-negative drug-abusing fathers.	This is a longitudinal study of the precursors of sexual risk behavior among a cohort of adolescent children of HIV-positive and HIV-negative drug-abusing or drug-dependent fathers.
The intersecting risks of substance use and HIV risk among substance-using South African men and women.	The aim of this article is to review the recent literature examining the intersection between alcohol and other drug use and HIV risk behaviors for South African men and women, and the implications for the development of interventions and future research.
Correlates of risky sexual behaviors in recently traditionally circumcised men from initiation lodges in the Eastern Cape, South Africa.	This exploratory quantitative study examines past risky sexual behaviors among young men who were circumcised as part of a rite of passage to adulthood embedded within a cultural and traditional belief system in the Eastern Cape Province in South Africa. Following permission from the Eastern Cape House of Traditional Leaders (ECHOTL), individual face-to-face interviews using a structured questionnaire were conducted among 114 initiates. The mean age of the participants was 18.9 years, ranging from 15 to 32 years old. About 79.8% reported already having had sex with a woman prior to initiation. Of those, 89% reported that they ever used condoms when having sex, and 61% reported consistent use. Logistic regression analysis showed that consistent condom use increased with higher educational levels. Those involved in other risky health behaviors (specifically, smoking) were also more likely to report inconsistent condom use. Most participants had positive beliefs about male circumcision and STI/HIV transmission. This study provides a first look at the sexual behaviors of young men at the time of their initiation in adulthood, a process that is intended to make it socially acceptable to initiate sexual relations and highlights a major public health challenge in integrating the protective health benefits of circumcision with indigenous cultural practices.
Latent class analysis of sexual risk patterns among esquineros (street corner men) a group of heterosexually identified, socially marginalized men in urban coastal Peru.	We explored patterns of sexual risk behavior among esquineros, heterosexually-identified, socially-marginalized Peruvian men using latent class analysis. We used data from the Peru site of the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH) Collaborative HIV/STD Prevention Trial which included n = 2,109 heterosexually-identified men. The latent class analysis used seven risk behaviors to group esquineros into risk classes. We identified four latent classes, of which two classes had lower probabilities and two classes had higher probabilities of these risk behaviors. Comparing the two lower risk classes to the two higher risk classes yielded significantly more unprotected sex acts (Chi square P value < 0.001). The risk behaviors in two of the latent classes identified were primarily related to alcohol and drug use. Future HIV/STI prevention interventions may benefit from this information by tailoring messages to fit the observed risk patterns and should focus on drug and alcohol use.
Effectiveness of an HIV prevention program for women visiting their incarcerated partners: the HOME Project.	Having an incarcerated partner presents a unique HIV risk for women, particularly low-income women of color. We developed a population-specific risk reduction intervention for women visiting men in prison that was peer educator-based and included individual and community-level intervention components. Women who were assessed prior to the intervention period had a positive association between the number of unprotected penetrative intercourse (UPI) episodes prior to their partners' incarceration and the number of UPI episodes following partners' release from prison. However, this association was negated among women assessed during the intervention. Intervention participants also were more likely to be tested for HIV, to have partners who got tested, and to talk with their partners about significantly more HIV-related topics. Conducting intervention and evaluation activities with women visiting incarcerated men is feasible and is a useful model for reaching more at-risk women.
Group sex events amongst non-gay drug users: an understudied risk environment.	This article discusses relevant literature on group sex events--defined as events at which some people have sex with more than one partner--as risk environments, with a particular focus on group sex events where people who take drugs by non-injection routes of administration participate and where the event is not primarily LGBT-identified, at a "classic" crack house, nor in a brothel. It also briefly presents some findings from a small ethnography of such events. Group sex participation by people who take drugs by non-injection routes of administration seems to be widespread. It involves both behavioural and network risk for HIV and STI infection, including documented high-risk behaviour and sexual mixing of STI- and HIV-infected people with those who are uninfected. Indeed several HIV and STI outbreaks have been documented as based on such group sex events. Further, group sex events often serve as potential bridge environments that may allow infections to pass from members of one high-risk-behavioural category to another, and to branch out through these people's sexual and/or injection networks to other members of the local community. The ethnographic data presented here suggest a serious possibility of "third party transmission" of infectious agents between people who do not have sex with each other. This can occur even when condoms are consistently used since condoms and sex toys are sometimes used with different people without being removed or cleaned, and since fingers and mouths come into contact with mucosal surfaces of other members of the same or opposite sex. In addition to being risk environments, many of these group sex events are venues where risk-reducing norms, activities and roles are present--which lays the basis for harm reduction interventions. Research in more geographical locations is needed so we can better understand risks associated with group sex events in which drug users participate--and, in particular, how both participants and others can intervene effectively to reduce the risks posed to participants and non-participants by these group sex events. Such interventions are needed and should be developed.
Sex parties among urban MSM: an emerging culture and HIV risk environment.	Private sex parties are an emerging risk environment for HIV among men who have sex with men (MSM). In 2009, 103 participants who reported attending at least one sex party in Massachusetts in the prior 12 months completed an in-depth, interviewer-administered quantitative assessment. Multivariable logistic regression analyses were conducted to examine associations with having engaged in one or more serodiscordant unprotected anal sex (SDUAS) acts at the most recent sex party attended. Nearly one-third (32%) of the sample reported engaging in SDUAS at the most recent sex party attended. Adjusting for age, race/ethnicity, and educational attainment, variables associated with an increased odds of engaging in SDUAS at the most recent sex party were: total number of unprotected anal receptive sex acts at sex parties in the past 12 months, self-perception of being at-risk for transmitting or acquiring HIV, and sexual sensation seeking. Examined in the same model, if condoms were provided/available at the most recent sex party attended, participants were at a decreased odds of engaging in SDUAS at that sex party. The majority (80%) expressed an interest in HIV prevention activities for MSM who attend sex parties. HIV prevention interventions are needed to reach MSM who attend sex parties and should take into account individual and contextual factors that may contribute to sexual risk. Environmental factors in the sex party setting, in particular the presence and availability of condoms, may potentially mitigate individual-level factors such as unprotected anal sex.
A venue analysis of predictors of alcohol use prior to sexual intercourse among female sex workers in Senggigi, Indonesia.	Female sex workers' (FSWs') use of alcohol, a known disinhibitor to risk behaviour, has been largely understudied. Knowledge of how various sex work venues influence FSW's alcohol consumption before engaging in commercial sex is even rarer. Our analysis identifies those factors across three types of sex-work venues that predict alcohol use among FSWs prior to paid sexual intercourse with clients. Our data were collected through structured interviews with FSWs engaging in commercial sex in Senggigi Beach, Lombok Island in the eastern Indonesian province of West Nusa Tenggara.
The interrelationship of men's self-reports of sexual risk behavior and symptoms and laboratory-confirmed STI-status in India.	This paper describes the interrelationship among men's self-reports of symptoms, unsafe sexual behavior, and biologically tested sexually transmitted infections (STIs). Data are drawn from the baseline survey of six-year (2001-2007) research and intervention project on men's sexual health and HIV/STI risk reduction conducted in three urban poor communities in Mumbai, India. The survey collected a wide range of demographic, attitudinal, knowledge, and behavioral data. In addition, men were tested for common STIs by selecting a systematic random sub-sample of 816 men (assuming 20% non-response). Data in this paper are based on 641 men who had completed the survey interview and for whom the testing of blood and urine samples was conducted. Results suggest that the self-reported STI-like symptoms and unsafe sexual behavior taken together as a predictor of confirmed STIs improve the sensitivity to a significantly greater degree (χ² = 2.83, p<0.05) as compared to the sensitivity of self-reported STI-like symptoms or unsafe sexual behavior alone as a predictor of confirmed STIs. In addition, the consistency of self-report was found to vary among socio-demographic and behaviorally defined sub-groups. These results provide preliminary support for the importance of population-based surveys, which collect all the three types of data such as reported behavior, symptoms and laboratory confirmed STIs for a full understanding of sexual risk and STIs and for identification of sub-groups within communities that vary in their ability to identify STI symptoms.
Interim guidance: preexposure prophylaxis for the prevention of HIV infection in men who have sex with men.	An estimated 56,000 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infections occur each year in the United States. Men who have sex with men (MSM) account for 53% of the estimated incident infections, and surveillance data suggest that the annual number of new HIV infections among MSM has been rising since the mid-1990s. Strategies for reducing acquisition of HIV infection by MSM have included 1) expanded HIV testing so that infected persons can be treated and their risk for transmitting infection minimized; 2) individual, small-group, and community-level behavioral interventions to reduce risk behaviors; 3) promotion of condom use; 4) detection and treatment of sexually transmitted infections; and 5) mental health and substance abuse counseling when needed. On November 23, 2010, investigators for the Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis Initiative (iPrEX) study announced results from a multinational, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase III clinical trial of daily oral antiretrovirals (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [TDF] and emtricitabine [FTC]) to prevent acquisition of HIV infection among uninfected but exposed MSM. This report provides interim guidance to health-care providers based on the reported results of that trial, which indicated that TDF plus FTC taken orally once a day as preexposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is safe and partially effective in reducing HIV acquisition among MSM when provided with regular monitoring of HIV status and ongoing risk-reduction and PrEP medication adherence counseling.
Voluntary counselling and testing for HIV in a Zambian mining community: serial interviews with people testing negative.	To understand the influence of voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) and an HIV-negative result on subsequent sexual behaviour; and to identify the specific felt needs of those testing negative.
Perceptions of superinfection risk among gay men with diagnosed HIV who have unprotected anal intercourse.	This paper explores how men who have sex with men (MSM) with diagnosed HIV who engage in unprotected anal intercourse (UAI) perceive the potential risk of superinfection and how they respond to it. Semistructured interviews were carried out with 42 MSM recruited via community-based agencies throughout England and Wales. The interviews examined sexual risk taking and the ways in which men sought to manage the risks they perceived. All participants had heard of superinfection and one-third considered it a personal risk when they had UAI with men with the same sero-status. The risk of being superinfected with HIV was often situated among a number of other concerns that men felt they needed to manage when having sex. There was significant uncertainty about the likelihood of acquiring an additional strain of HIV, which was exacerbated by competing, and often conflicting, advice from a variety of expert sources. Men frequently drew upon lay and expert understandings of viral load and infectiousness to rationalize engagement in UAI with other diagnosed positive men. HIV health-care providers should seek to find consensus on how to discuss superinfection with MSM, taking account of the array of other physical and social risks associated with sex.
Targeted expansion project for outreach and treatment for substance abuse and HIV risk behaviors in Asian and Pacific Islander communities.	Access to culturally competent HIV/AIDS and substance abuse treatment and prevention services is limited for Asian and Pacific Islanders (APIs). Based on the intake data for a community outreach project in the San Francisco Bay Area (N = 1,349), HIV risk behaviors were described among the targeted API risk groups. The self-reported HIV prevalence was 6% among MSM. Inconsistent condom use for vaginal sex with casual partners in the past 6 months was reported among substance users (43%) and incarcerated participants (60%), whereas 26% of men who have sex with men reported inconsistent condom use for anal sex with casual partners. Overall, 56% and 29% had engaged in sex with casual partners under the influence of alcohol and drugs in the past 6 months, respectively. Although API organizations in the Bay Area have spearheaded HIV prevention, future programs must address substance use issues in relation to sexual risk behaviors, specific to API risk groups.
Testing the role of adolescent sexual initiation in later-life sexual risk behavior: a longitudinal twin design.	The consistent association between adolescent sexual initiation (ASI) and risky adult sexual behavior (RASB) has generally been assumed to indicate that ASI has a causal effect on RASB; consequently, it is assumed that delaying ASI will reduce RASB. Yet the ASI-RASB association might be better accounted for by some third variable. We evaluated the causal role of ASI (initiation of oral, anal, or vaginal sex at or before age 16) in influencing RASB in a longitudinal sample of 2,173 twins (followed from ages 11 to 24 or from ages 17 to 29) using two methods: the discordant-twin design and the propensity-score design. The former controlled for unmeasured genetic and shared environmental factors, and the latter controlled for measured nonshared environmental factors. We replicated the link between ASI and RASB reported in previous research, but results from the discordant-twin and propensity-score analyses suggested that this association is better explained by common genetic or environmental risk factors than as a causal effect. These findings suggest that preventing ASI is unlikely to reduce RASB.
Thoughts, attitudes, and feelings of HIV-positive MSM associated with high transmission-risk sex.	This study presents survey data collected from a sample of HIV-positive men (N = 182) who had high transmission-risk sex, defined as unprotected anal intercourse with a man whose HIV-status was negative or unknown, in the previous 6 months. Despite the tremendous changes in HIV treatment and their impact on people living with HIV, little recent research has examined current trends in their thoughts toward unprotected anal intercourse. Here, the authors describe the self-justifications reported by HIV-positive men who have sex with men (MSM) in their current study conducted between 2006 and 2009 and explore key differences between the those of the HIV-positive MSM and those collected from a previous cohort of HIV-negative men (n = 124), who previously reported engaging in high transmission-risk sex. Whereas HIV-negative men focused on themes related to the impulsivity of and gratification from unprotected intercourse, HIV-positive men focused on themes regarding the deferral of responsibility/assumption the partner is positive (i.e., "If he's doing X, he must be positive . . ."), or the role of condomless sex fulfilling emotional needs. The findings highlight unique aspects of how HIV-positive men approach decision making regarding the use of condoms, as well as how they perceive issues of responsibility for initiating safer sex practices.
Anxiety and depression amongst patients enrolled in a public sector antiretroviral treatment programme in South Africa: a cross-sectional study.	HIV/AIDS and depression are projected to be the two leading causes of disability by 2030. HIV/AIDS and anxiety/depression are interlinked. People suffering from depression may be more likely to engage in risky sexual behaviour, and therefore at greater risk of contracting HIV. An HIV + diagnosis may trigger symptoms of anxiety and depression, which may in turn result in risky sexual behaviour and the spread of HIV. This study explores correlates of anxiety and depression in patients enrolled in a public sector ART programme in South Africa.
Recreational drug use during sex and sexually transmitted infections among clients of a city sexually transmitted infections clinic in Amsterdam, the Netherlands.	Recreational drug use is associated with high-risk sexual behavior and sexually transmitted infections (STIs). We assessed the prevalence of drug use during sex and the associations between such use and STI (chlamydia, gonorrhea, or syphilis).
Comparison of sexual risky factors of men who have sex with men and sex-buying men as groups vulnerable to sexually transmitted diseases.	It is necessary to examine groups carrying out sexually risky behavior because the prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) is high among them. In this study, the prevalence of STDs among homosexuals and sex-buying men in South Korea was investigated, along with their sexual risk factors.
Sexually transmitted penile amoebiasis in Iran: a case series.	Four cases of penile amoebiasis (PA) presenting as genital ulceration seen among men who practiced unprotected insertive anal intercourse in Tehran are described.
Using multiple sampling approaches to measure sexual risk-taking among young people in Haiti: programmatic implications.	No previous published research has examined the applicability of varying methods for identifying young people who are at high risk of experiencing unintended pregnancy and acquiring HIV infection. This study compares three surveys of young people aged 15-24 in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, in terms of their sociodemographic characteristics and sexual behaviors and the surveys'usefulness for identifying young people at high risk and for program planning. The surveys consist of responses from: a representative sample of young people in the 2005-06 Haiti Demographic and Health Survey (HDHS), a 2004 facility-based study, and a 2006-07 venue-based study that used the Priorities for Local AIDS Control Efforts (PLACE) method. The facility-based and PLACE studies included larger proportions of single, sexually experienced young people and people who knew someone with HIV/ AIDS than did the HDHS. More respondents in the PLACE sample had multiple sex partners in the past year and received money or gifts in return for sex, compared with respondents in the facility study. At first and last sex, more PLACE respondents used contraceptives, including condoms. Experience of pregnancy was most commonly reported in the data from the facility-based sample; however, more ever-pregnant PLACE respondents than others reported ever having terminated a pregnancy. Program managers seeking to implement prevention activities should consider using facility- or venue-based methods to identify and understand the behaviors of young people at high risk.
Characterizing and improving HIV and hepatitis knowledge among primary prescription opioid abusers.	The high rates of HIV and Hepatitis C (HCV) infection among opioid abusers is a serious public health problem, and efforts to enhance knowledge regarding risks for HIV/hepatitis infection in this population are important. Abuse of prescription opioids (POs), in particular, has increased substantially in the past decade and is associated with increasing rates of injection drug use and HCV infection.
Unprotected fellatio: what are the risks?]	Unprotected fellatio, which has been practiced by all civilizations since mists of time, is now becoming a cause of concern due to the AIDS epidemic. Most of the sexually transmitted infectious diseases are concerned by fellatio and only few medical studies deal with this topic. This paper is therefore a non exhaustive review of risks brought upon by unprotected fellatio. It is almost impossible to assess the exact risk for a given infection because of the complexity of sexual intercourse, which is rarely exclusively oro-genital.
