Construction of spectral sensitivity function using polychromatic UV sources.	A procedure is presented for constructing the spectral sensitivity functions of biological dosimeters, using five polychromatic UV sources possessing different emission spectra. Phage T7 and uracil biological dosimeters have been used for measuring the dose rates of the lamps. Their spectral sensitivity functions consisting of two exponential terms have been constructed. The parameters of the spectral sensitivity functions have been determined by comparing the directly measured and calculated dose-rate values. The parameters of the sensitivity function are accepted as correct values when the deviation of the measured and calculated values is a minimum. Based on the deviations between the constructed and the experimentally determined spectral sensitivities with monochromatic sources, the differences between the measured and calculated results are interpreted. The importance of the correct spectral sensitivity data is demonstrated through the effectiveness spectra of a TL 01 lamp for phage T7 killing, uracil dimerization and erythema induction.
Effect of UV-irradiation on rotavirus.	The effect of UV-irradiation on SAll rotavirus infectivity was followed. The time course of infectivity inactivation in general showed an one-hit pattern. Two basic effects of UV-irradiation on virus particles were investigated: the phenomenon of RNA-protein linkages and the formation of uracil dimers. To determine the number of uridine dimers, 3H-uridine labelled purified rotavirus was exposed to UV-irradiation, subsequently the RNA was extracted and analysed by ascending paper chromatography. Formation of photodimers was found to be an important mechanism of rotavirus inactivation at conventional UV-irradiation; the RNA-protein linkages were registered at high irradiation doses only.
The reduction of thymine residues in DNA by the combined action of UV light and hypophosphite.	UV irradiation (lambda = 254 nm) of thymine and uracil in aqueous solution containing salts of phosphinic acid (hypophosphites) results in the formation of the corresponding dihydropyrimidine derivatives. The peculiarities of this new photochemical reaction consist of a specificity towards 2,4-dioxophyrimidines, a high quantum yield and a neutral pH optimum. The quantum yield of photoconversion of thymine at pH 7.0 is equal to 1.9 x 10(-2) in 1 M NaH2PO2; it is diminished to 8.5 x 10(-3) in 0.1 M NaH2PO2. The same decrease in quantum yield with concentration is also found for uracil and uridine; quantum yields of their transformations in 0.1 M NaH2PO2 at pH 7.0 are 6.6 x 10(-2) and 1.5 x 10(-1) respectively. The mild conditions and high quantum yields characteristic of the photoinduced reaction above open up the possibility of obtaining DNA molecules which contain among pyrimidine photoproducts mainly dihydropyrimidine residues. A correlation between various types of thymine modifications in UV-irradiated double-stranded DNA (dimers and dihydrothymidine residues) and the amplitude of the intense negative band in the circular dichroism (CD) spectra specific for DNA liquid crystalline dispersions has been established. A possible application of this base-specific modification to the investigation of nucleic acids is considered.
