Investigation of the dNTP-binding site of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase using photoreactive analogs of dNTP.	The interaction of dNTPs with the active site of HIV-1 reverse transcriptase (HIV RT) has been investigated. The kinetic parameters of primer elongation catalyzed by wild-type HIV-1 RT and two of its mutants with substitutions for Tyr115 using dTTP and two of its photoreactive analogs were determined. The substitution for Tyr115 with alanine or tryptophan resulted in an increase in K(m) values of dTTP and its analogs. Wild-type RT and its mutants were photoaffinity modified using photoreactive primer synthesized in situ. The modification was made in two variants: direct photocross-linking under UV irradiation and photosensitized modification using Pyr-dUTP as a sensitizer. The use of the sensitizer decreased the number of modification products and increased selective labeling of the catalytic subunit of both the mutant and wild-type RT.
DNA duplexes containing 2'-deoxy-2'-iodoacetamidouridine as reagents for affinity modification of proteins]	DNA duplexes containing the iodoacetamido group at position 2' of the ribose moiety were proposed for affinity modification of Cys in DNA-binding proteins. Reactive DNA derivatives were obtained with iodoacetic anhydride and synthetic oligodeoxyribonucleotides containing 2'-amino-2'-deoxyuridine in place of thymine at various positions. The derivatives were tested for reaction with amino acids and peptides and shown to specifically interact with Cys-containing proteins. The possibility of using the modified DNA duplexes to probe the protein SH group close to the DNA sugar-phosphate backbone in DNA-protein complexes was demonstrated with the example of subunit p50 of human transcription factor NF-kappa B.
Ring opening of nucleoside 1',2'-epoxides with organoaluminum reagents: stereoselective entry to ribonucleosides branched at the anomeric position.	Epoxidation of 3',5'-O-(di-tert-butylsilylene)-1',2'-unsaturated uridine (11) with dimethyldioxirane proceeded from the alpha-face to give the 1',2'-alpha-epoxide 12. Upon reacting with organoaluminum reagents, the 1',2'-alpha-epoxide 12 underwent preferential syn-opening of the epoxide ring to yield the beta-anomers of 1'-methyl- (13beta), 1'-ethyl- (14beta), 1'-isobutyl- (15beta), 1'-ethynyl- (16beta), 1'-vinyl- (17beta), and 1'-phenyl- (18beta) uridine derivatives, although the corresponding alpha-anomers were also formed except for the reaction with triphenylaluminum. It was found, however, that protection of the N(3)-position of 11 either with a benzyloxymethyl or benzoyl group led to the exclusive formation of the desired beta-anomers. A possible explanation for the observed stereochemical outcome is presented. A similar strategy was found to be applicable to the synthesis of 1'-branched adenosine analogues, which include protected angustmycin C (37).
Structures of vaccinia virus dUTPase and its nucleotide complexes.	Deoxyuridine triphosphate nucleotidohydrolase (dUTPase) catalyzes the hydrolysis of dUTP to dUMP and pyrophosphate in the presence of Mg(2+) ions. The enzyme plays multiple cellular roles by maintaining a low dUTP:dTTP ratio and by synthesizing the substrate for thymidylate synthase in the biosynthesis of dTTP. Although dUTPase is an essential enzyme and has been established as a valid target for drug design, the high degree of homology of vaccinia virus dUTPase to the human enzyme makes the identification of selective inhibitors difficult. The crystal structure of vaccinia virus dUTPase has been solved and the active site has been mapped by crystallographic analysis of the apo enzyme and of complexes with the substrate-analog dUMPNPP, with the product dUMP and with dUDP, which acts as an inhibitor. Analyses of these structures reveal subtle differences between the viral and human enzymes. In particular, the much larger size of the central channel at the trimer interface suggests new possibilities for structure-based drug design. Vaccinia virus is a prototype of the poxviruses.
Some electrochemical characteristics of synthetic analogs of nucleic acid components. III. Derivatives of 5-fluorouridine. An attempt to find correlation between some of their characteristics.	The polarographic reduction and parameter tg alpha of a series of synthetic 5-fluorouracil derivatives (various 5'-modified nucleosides) were studied. The studied compounds were compared with analogous nucleosides of the uridine series. It was confirmed that the value of tg alpha which may suggest a potential carcinogenic activity of the compound studied, is dependent upon the reducibility of the compound and is associated with the cleavability of the nucleoside bond, i.e. with the ability to liberate fluorouracil. It was found that Ftorafur, an antitumor agent widely used in clinical practice, displayed a very high value of tg alpha. In the group of polyaromates such high tg alpha values had been found in compounds which are known to have carcinogenic activity.
Structural modifications of UMP, UDP, and UTP leading to subtype-selective agonists for P2Y2, P2Y4, and P2Y6 receptors.	A large series of derivatives and analogues of the uracil nucleotides UMP, UDP, and UTP with modifications in various positions of the uracil moiety and/or the phosphate groups were synthesized and evaluated at human P2Y(2), P2Y(4), and P2Y(6) receptors. 2-(Ar)alkylthio substitution of UMP and UDP was best tolerated by the P2Y(2) receptor. 2-Phenethylthio-UMP (13e) showed an EC(50) value of 1.3 μM at P2Y(2) and >70-fold selectivity versus P2Y(4) and P2Y(6) receptors. Substitution of the 2-keto group in UMP by NH (13g, iso-CMP) resulted in the first potent and selective P2Y(4) agonist (EC(50) 4.98 μM, >20-fold selective vs P2Y(2) and P2Y(6)). In contrast, replacement of the 2-keto function in UDP by NH yielded a potent P2Y(2) agonist (12g, iso-CDP, EC(50) = 0.604 μM, >100-fold selective). In an attempt to obtain metabolically stable UTP analogues, β,γ-dichloro- and β,γ-difluoro-methylene-UTP derivatives were synthesized. The triphosphate modifications were much better tolerated by P2Y(2), and in some cases also by P2Y(6), than by P2Y(4) receptors. 4-Thio-β,γ-difluoromethylene-UTP (14g) was a potent P2Y(2) agonist with an EC(50) value of 0.134 μM and >50-fold selectivity. N3-Phenacyl-β,γ-dichloromethylene-UTP (14b) proved to be a potent P2Y(6) receptor agonist (EC(50) 0.142 μM) with high selectivity versus P2Y(4) (50-fold) and moderate selectivity versus P2Y(2) receptors (6-fold).
A robust, sensitive assay for genomic uracil determination by LC/MS/MS reveals lower levels than previously reported.	Considerable progress has been made in understanding the origins of genomic uracil and its role in genome stability and host defense; however, the main question concerning the basal level of uracil in DNA remains disputed. Results from assays designed to quantify genomic uracil vary by almost three orders of magnitude. To address the issues leading to this inconsistency, we explored possible shortcomings with existing methods and developed a sensitive LC/MS/MS-based method for the absolute quantification of genomic 2'-deoxyuridine (dUrd). To this end, DNA was enzymatically hydrolyzed to 2'-deoxyribonucleosides and dUrd was purified in a preparative HPLC step and analyzed by LC/MS/MS. The standard curve was linear over four orders of magnitude with a quantification limit of 5 fmol dUrd. Control samples demonstrated high inter-experimental accuracy (94.3%) and precision (CV 9.7%). An alternative method that employed UNG2 to excise uracil from DNA for LC/MS/MS analysis gave similar results, but the intra-assay variability was significantly greater. We quantified genomic dUrd in Ung(+/+) and Ung(-/-) mouse embryonic fibroblasts and human lymphoblastoid cell lines carrying UNG mutations. DNA-dUrd is 5-fold higher in Ung(-/-) than in Ung(+/+) fibroblasts and 11-fold higher in UNG2 dysfunctional than in UNG2 functional lymphoblastoid cells. We report approximately 400-600 dUrd per human or murine genome in repair-proficient cells, which is lower than results using other methods and suggests that genomic uracil levels may have previously been overestimated.
Identification of a potent endothelium-derived angiogenic factor.	The secretion of angiogenic factors by vascular endothelial cells is one of the key mechanisms of angiogenesis. Here we report on the isolation of a new potent angiogenic factor, diuridine tetraphosphate (Up4U) from the secretome of human endothelial cells. The angiogenic effect of the endothelial secretome was partially reduced after incubation with alkaline phosphatase and abolished in the presence of suramin. In one fraction, purified to homogeneity by reversed phase and affinity chromatography, Up4U was identified by MALDI-LIFT-fragment-mass-spectrometry, enzymatic cleavage analysis and retention-time comparison. Beside a strong angiogenic effect on the yolk sac membrane and the developing rat embryo itself, Up4U increased the proliferation rate of endothelial cells and, in the presence of PDGF, of vascular smooth muscle cells. Up4U stimulated the migration rate of endothelial cells via P2Y2-receptors, increased the ability of endothelial cells to form capillary-like tubes and acts as a potent inducer of sprouting angiogenesis originating from gel-embedded EC spheroids. Endothelial cells released Up4U after stimulation with shear stress. Mean total plasma Up4U concentrations of healthy subjects (N=6) were sufficient to induce angiogenic and proliferative effects (1.34 ± 0.26 nmol L(-1)). In conclusion, Up4U is a novel strong human endothelium-derived angiogenic factor.
Use of Escherichia coli polyphosphate kinase for oligosaccharide synthesis.	The Escherichia coli polyphosphate kinase (PPK) has been known to catalyze the reversible transfer of phosphate molecules between ATP and polyphosphate (poly(P)). It has also been found that the PPK catalyzes the kination of not only ADP but also other nucleoside diphosphates (NDPs) using poly(P) as a phosphate donor, yielding nucleotide triphosphates (NTPs). We used the PPK and poly(P) in place of pyruvate kinase and phosphoenol pyruvate for NTP regeneration followed by synthesis of sugar nucleotides in a cyclic synthesis system for oligosaccharides. It was confirmed that the PPK efficiently catalyzed the UTP regeneration in the cyclic system of N-acetyllactosamine synthesis. This novel activity of PPK enables us to perform the practical synthesis of oligosaccharides.
