Mycoplasmal infection in patients with reactive arthritis and seronegative spondyloarthropaties]	After investigation of 150 patients with reactive arthritis and undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies, inflammation signs of urogenital tract (uretritis in men and endocervicitis in women) were found in about 2/3 of patients. In those patients with reactive arthritis and undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies Ureaplazma urealyticum was found in more than 1/4 of patients, Mycoplasma hominis - in 1/10 of patients, and both microbes appeared in 1/10 of patients. Micoplasmal infection occurred in equal frequency in patients with reactive arthritis and undifferentiated spondyloarthropathies with a tendency to appear more in women than in men.
Investigation on biovars and genotypes of Ureaplasma urealyticum in the cervix in a Chinese gynecologic check-up population and sex workers.	Ureaplasma urealyticum is a causative agent of non-gonococcal urethritis and is implicated in the pathogenesis of several other diseases. However, U. urealyticum is also frequently found in the normal genitourinary tract. To characterize the distribution pattern of biovars and genotypes in normal physical check-up women and in sex workers, cervical swabs taken from 261 physical check-up clients and 98 sex workers were cultured. Positive cultures were further biotyped and genotyped by PCR. The data indicate that a) U. urealyticum is more frequently isolated in sex workers than in physical check-up women (p < 0.001); b) infection with only one genotype (genotype 1, 3 or 6) of biovar 1 is frequently found in physical check-up women; c) biovar 2 infection and mixed infection caused by more than one genotype of biovar 1 are more prevalent in sex workers than in physical check-up women (p < 0.001 and p < 0.01, respectively); d) no difference in distribution of genotype 1, 3 and 6 of biovar 1 is found between sex workers and physical check-up women (p = 0.396); e) the PCR method described here is relatively simple, rapid and specific for the biotyping between biovar 1 and 2 and genotyping of genotypes 1, 3, 6, and 14 in biovar 1.
A comparative study on interrelations among microelements, infection of Ureaplasma urealyticum, and male infertility.	This study investigated the association among male infertility, infection of Ureaplasma urealyticum (Uu), and microelements in semen fluid. Semen analysis and cultivation of Uu are carried out to 165 samples of semen fluid. Then the contents of microelements, such as Cu, Fe, Se, Cd, Mn, and Zn, in the samples are measured respectively by an Inductively Coupled Plasma Quantometer (ICP). The contents of Fe, Se, and Zn in seminal plasma of the normal spermatic quality group are obviously higher than those of the poor spermatic quality group (p<.05), while the content of Cd in seminal plasma of the normal spermatic quality group is obviously lower than that of the poor spermatic quality group (p<.05), and the contents of Cu and Mn show no difference. The contents of Zn, Se, and Cu in seminal plasma infected with Uu are markedly lower than those of seminal plasma not infected with Uu (p<.05), while the content of Cd in seminal plasma infected with Uu is obviously higher than that in samples not infected with Uu, and the contents of Fe and Mn show no statistic difference. The contents of Zn and Se in seminal plasma of the poor spermatic qualitative semen that were infected with Uu are obviously lower than those of seminal plasma not infected with Uu (p<.05), while the content of Cd in seminal plasma of the poor spermatic qualitative semen with Uu infection is markedly higher than that of the normal seminal plasma (p<.05). Uu infection leads to the decrease of the contents of Zn and Se in semen fluid, and therefore causes spermatic quality decline. Lack of Fe or overdose of Cd may also contribute to spermatic quality decline.
Ureaplasma urealyticum in the development of postpartum endometritis.	Investigation of the clinical significance of Ureaplasma urealyticum and its biovars in the development of postpartum endometritis.
Cervicovaginal infections during pregnancy: epidemiological and microbiological aspects.	The assessment of the association of cervicovaginal infections during pregnancy with preterm (pPROM) and term (PROM) premature rupture of membranes, preterm delivery, mid-trimester miscarriage and intrauterine death, and the definition of the risk factors that identify pregnant women who should have a cervicovaginal culture.
Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis in women with systemic lupus erythematosus.	To determine the prevalence of genitourinary mycoplasma infection in women with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
Recurrent infection stones with apparently negative cultures. The case for blind antibacterial treatment.	Infection stones in the urinary tract are always associated with infection with a urease-producing, urea-splitting organism. The most common of these organisms are easy to culture and identify and can be treated early either with an appropriate antibiotic or with an anti-urease agent. Ureaplasma urealyticum and Corynebacterium urealyticum are urease-producing organisms which are difficult to grow; their presence and effects frequently go undetected and untreated. Other organisms, as yet unknown, may also be involved in the same process. We report the first series of 8 patients with recurrent infection-type stones likely to have been caused by a "hard to grow" organism. Five patients never had a positive culture; in 2 patients 1 of 10 urine cultures grew a coagulase-negative Staphylococcus and in 1 patient the same organism was grown from a stone but never in the urine. The clinical course of all of these patients was significantly improved after blind treatment with antibiotics and in one case with an anti-urease agent.
Comparison of commercially available media for detection and isolation of Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis.	The Mycotrim Triphasic flask system (Irvine Scientific, Irvine, Calif.) was compared with a system composed of Mycotrim GU broth (Irvine Scientific) and A7 or A8 agar (Remel, Lenexa, Kans.) for the ability to detect Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis from 129 genital specimens. Of the 64 specimens positive for U. urealyticum, 25, 98, and 100% were detected on Mycotrim Triphasic agar and A7 and A8 agars, respectively. All 18 specimens that grew M. hominis were detected by A7 and A8 agars, and 94% grew on Mycotrim Triphasic agar. Mycotrim GU broth detected all of the positive specimens, and Mycotrim Triphasic broth detected all but one. Mycotrim GU broth inoculated simultaneously with either A7 or A8 agar was found to be more sensitive and cost-effective than the Mycotrim Triphasic flask system.
Interleukin-6 and interleukin-8 in cervical and amniotic fluid: relationship to microbial invasion of the chorioamniotic membranes.	To evaluate the levels of interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 in cervical and amniotic fluid in relation to the presence of bacteria in the membranes in women in preterm labour (PTL).
Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis: incidence and clinical significance of their isolation in the perinatal period]	In order to known the clinical significance of the colonization of the maternal genitalia and infant with genital mycoplasmas, we studied prospectively 219 pairs of mothers and newborns admitted for delivery to a general public hospital. U. urealyticum and M. hominis were isolated from 72 (32.9%) and 10 (4.6%) of the mothers, respectively. During the first 4 days of life. U. urealyticum and M. hominis were isolated from 23 (10.5%) and 1 (0.5%), of the newborn infants respectively. Maternal colonization by genital mycoplasmas was not associated with a longer duration of membrane rupture, nor with a shorter gestational age, nor with smaller neonatal weight and length. Neonatal colonization by U. urealyticum was not associated with shorter gestational age, nor with smaller birth weight and length, nor with the appearance of any disease during the first 3 months of life.
Prenatal microbiological risk factors associated with preterm birth.	To study the vaginal flora of pregnant women at 22-28 weeks gestation to determine whether the presence of specific micro-organisms is significantly associated with preterm birth and prelabour rupture of the membranes.
Prevalence and clinical significance of Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis in the lower genital tract of HIV-1-infected women.	Mycoplasma hominis and Ureaplasma urealyticum are frequently isolated from the cervical and vaginal tracts of HIV-negative asymptomatic women. Published data lack indisputable conclusions and doubts still exist as to whether these mycoplasmas are pathogens or mere co-factors associated with genital infections. We therefore conducted a surveillance study to investigate the prevalence of genital mycoplasmas in HIV-1 positive women (110 patients), attending the outpatient Infectious Diseases Clinic of our tertiary referral Hospital, by speculum examination, PAP test, endocervical and vaginal swabs obtained by gynaecologists. Ureaplasma urealyticum was isolated from the cervix of 45 women (41%). Mycoplasma hominis was recovered from 12 women (11%), in four of whom it was isolated at the same time from the vagina. PAP test results ruled out subclinical cervicitis in all women. Bacterial vaginosis, assessed by Amsel criteria and the Nugent score, was absent in all women. Our data show that the mycoplasmas in question are found in the lower genital tract of asymptomatic HIV-1-positive women at a frequency similar to that reported in the HIV-negative female population, and make a role for these microorganisms unlikely in the aetiology of cervico-vaginal infections also in this particular patient population.
Antibiotic administration to patients with preterm premature rupture of membranes does not eradicate intra-amniotic infection.	Antibiotic administration has become part of the standard of care for patients with preterm premature rupture of membranes (PROM). Yet, the natural history of intrauterine infection/inflammation during antibiotic therapy remains largely unknown. This study was conducted to determine if antibiotic administration to the mother eradicates intra-amniotic infection and/or reduces the frequency of intra-amniotic inflammation, a risk factor for impending preterm labor/delivery and adverse neonatal outcome.
Ureaplasma urealyticum demonstrated by open lung biopsy in newborns with chronic lung disease.	Lung biopsy tissue from eight infants with chronic lung disease was evaluated for the presence of Ureaplasma urealyticum. Specimens from four infants grew the organism. Pleural fluid cultures matched lung tissue but tracheal cultures were negative in two babies with positive lung tissue. There were no distinguishing pathologic findings in the four culture-positive infants which could be used to identify them vs. the culture-negative infants. Three culture-positive infants improved clinically after therapy directed at Ureaplasma even though two remained culture-positive. Ureaplasma grows in lung tissue of infants with chronic lung disease, it does not demonstrate any specific standard pathologic findings and tissue cultures do not match endotracheal cultures.
Genital mycoplasmas in preterm infants: prevalence and clinical significance.	The genital mycoplasmas: Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis have recently assumed an increasing importance as neonatal pathogens. The aim of the present survey was to determine the prevalence of infections with these organisms in preterm infants in two neonatal intensive care units in Israel. Among 99 preterm infants, 24 (24%) harboured mycoplasmas in their throats shortly after birth. U. urealyticum was the most common organism. M. hominis was isolated only from 3 infants. Six out of 27 (22%) mechanically ventilated infants secreted U. urealyticum in their lower airways. The rate of colonization was inversely correlated with gestational age; 80% of infants younger than 28 weeks gestation were found to be colonized as opposed to 17.9% at 28-36 weeks of gestation. No mycoplasmas were isolated in blood cultures drawn from 146 infants and CSF cultures obtained from 47 preterm infants. Neonatal mortality, respiratory complications and intraventricular haemorrhage grade 3-4 were significantly increased in colonized infants. However, above gestational age of 27 weeks, colonization with mycoplasmas was not associated with a worse prognosis. We conclude that colonization with U. urealyticum is common in Israeli preterm infants, correlates inversely with gestational age and has no detrimental effect on neonatal morbidity and mortality of infants older than 27 wks of gestation.
Influence of TORCH-infections on the spermatogenesis of men]	The purpose of the given study was to reveal causal relations between infection of the urino-genital tract by intracellular parasites, the so-called TORCH-infections, and the decrease of spermatogenesis. For observation 182 men of reproductive age (from 22 to 38 years) with oligozoospermia and aspermia, without any complaints or clinical symptoms indicating existence of infections of urino-genital tracts, were selected. Out of those, 131 revealed oligozoospermia, i.e. the quantity of spermatozoons was no higher than 20 mln in 1 ml of ejaculate, and 51 revealed - aspermia. For examination of some TORCH infections, medical doctors in charge directed 44 oligozoospermia patients and 15 aspermia patients, who respectively constituted group I and group II. Examinations were carried out for Chlamydia trachomatis--(Ch.t), Herpes simplex virus--(HSV), Ureaplasma urealiticum--(U.u.), Cytomegalovirus--(CMV), and Mycoplasma hominis--(M.h.). In the group with oligozoospermia, cases of infections by Chlamydias (41.5%) and Herpes virus (51.3%) were frequent, but Ureaplasma (56,5%) was more frequent than any infections. Cytomegalovirus occurred in the least number of cases. Making any conclusions on the frequency of infections by M.h. is difficult due to the low number of examinations. Similar picture was observed in Group II as well. Following successful treatment of infections in Group I, 8 patients with Ch.t. and 8 patients with U.u. showed an improved spermogram after several months. Treatment of other infections did not yield tangible results. In Group II spermatogenesis remained without any changes.
An intrauterine device as a possible cause of change in the microbial flora of the female genital system.	An intrauterine device (IUD), used by millions of women worldwide, is one of the most efficient methods of contraception. The goal of our study was to compare a group of women using the IUD to a control group.
Epidemiological trends of sexually transmitted infections among women in Cheonan, South Korea, 2006-2012.	A lack of investigation in specific regions has impeded the understanding of epidemiological trends in the prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STIs) in South Korea. To help fill this research gap, this study used multiplex polymerase chain reaction (mPCR) to determine the prevalence of STIs detected in clinical specimens collected from women in Cheonan, South Korea between August 2006 and November 2012, and analyzed the prevalence of STIs according to age, bacterial pathogen, and time period. Of the 1,618 specimens collected from 1,523 patients, 536 (35.2%) tested positive for at least 1 pathogen, with 407 (25.2%) testing positive for 1 pathogen, 103 (6.4%) for 2 pathogens, 20 (1.2%) for 3 pathogens, and 6 (0.4%) for 4 pathogens (n = 697 pathogens total). The median ages of all patients and of STI-positive patients were 37.8 and 33.3 years, respectively, and both decreased annually over the study period. Mycoplasma hominis (MH) was detected in 62.1% of the positive specimens, Ureaplasma urealyticum (UU) in 28.4%, Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) in 23.1%, Trichomonas vaginalis (TV) in 7.8%, Mycoplasma genitalium (MG) in 6.5%, and Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) in 2.1%. Whereas the prevalence of MH, MG, and TV infection did not vary greatly over the study period, that of UU decreased by one-fifth and that of both CT and NG increased 4-fold. The results indicate great variability in the rates of infection with each pathogen and a decreasing trend in overall STI prevalence, age of patients seeking STI testing, and age of STI-positive patients. 
Male urethritis with and without discharge: a clinical and microbiological study.	The definition of male urethritis in the absence of urethral discharge has not been well established. The sensitivity of urethral swabs and first-catch urine is controversial.
Mycoplasma hominis and Ureaplasma urealyticum in pregnant and infertile women. Differences in tubal pathology]	We studied the frequency of cervicovaginal bacteria in 47 pregnant women (16-41 weeks of gestational age), in 47 infertile patients and in 4 with gynecological diseases (not infections). When we compared the frequency of bacteria between pregnant and infertile women, we found that the biggest difference was with U. urealyticum. In fact the frequency of this germ was 61% in the total population studied, in pregnant women was of 72% which is statistically higher than the frequency in infertile women which was of 47% (p < 0.025). We think that the reason for the higher frequency of this germ is a consequence of the effect of estrogens that favors the proliferation of this of germ. In the case of M. hominis the frequency in pregnant women was of 13% and in infertile women was of 21% which was not statistically different. Within the group of infertile patients, those that had tubal damage had a higher frequency of germs that the patients that did not have damage, moreover M. Hominis was not detected in the infertile patients without tubal damage and in patients with tubal damage its frequency was of 25%.
The significance of genital mycoplasmas in the etiology of puerperal endometritis]	The rate of genital Mycoplasma isolation from the uterine cavity was studied in 147 puerperae (80 ones with a normal course of the puerperium and 67 with acute postpartum endometritis). Mycoplasma were isolated from the metroaspirate in 11.3% of puerperae in whom the postpartum period ran a normal course; M. urealyticum were found in 8.8% and M. hominis in 2.5% of cases. In endometritis Mycoplasma were isolated from the infection focus 2.5 times more often, i.e. from 28.4% of patients with postpartum endometritis (M. urealyticum were detected in 9.0% and M. hominis in 19.4% of cases). Mycoplasma were the sole agents of endometritis in 9.0% of patients. Hysteroscopic and morphologic studies helped verify the contribution of genital Mycoplasma to the development of acute postpartum endometritis in 19.4% of the patients. Therefore, virtually every fifth patient with postpartum endometritis was in need of purposeful antimycoplasma therapy with tetracycline.
Bacteroides ureolyticus in men consulting for infertility.	A screening of 3196 semen analyses performed in our clinic from January 1986 to December 1990 revealed 314 (9.8%) patients whose semen was infected with Bacteroides ureolyticus. Investigating the relationship between the presence of B. ureolyticus, the seminal microflora and the conventional semen parameters, we observed that the presence of this micro-organism in the semen was coupled (1) to an increased presence of Enterococcus species, (2) to an increased number of short-tailed spermatozoa and epithelial cells, and (3) to a decreased total fructose concentration (mg ejaculate-1). These results suggest that B. ureolyticus or its toxins may influence sperm morphology and function by yet unknown mechanisms and may also increase the number of epithelial cells by soft tissue infection in vivo. The decreased fructose levels suggest that this anaerobic micro-organism might specifically colonize the seminal vesicles, while the normal zinc values recorded suggest a normal prostatic function. Overall, our data support the hypothesis that the presence of B. ureolyticus is not associated with nongonococcal urethritis.
Evaluation of the importance of Chlamydia T. and/or Mycoplasma H. and/or Ureaplasma U. genital infections and of antisperm antibodies in couples affected by muco-semen incompatibility and in couples with unexplained infertility.	Both the male and female partners of 28 couples with muco-semen incompatibility and of 8 couples with unexplained infertility were examined for the presence of genital infections by Chlamydia T. and/or Mycoplasma H. and/or Ureaplasma U. (CMU infections), and for topical and serum antisperm antibodies (AS-abs). The presence of other common genital infections, and for Candida A. and Trichomonas had previously been excluded in all the subjects; all the female partners presented normal hysterosalpingographs, regular ovulatory function and cervical score > or = 10. The main cause of the muco-semen incompatibility was dysspermia (35.7%), either associated or not with male CMU infections, followed by female CMU infections (21.4%), male CMU infections without dysspermia (3.6%), and the presence of AS-abs in the mucus (3.6%) and in the semen (3.6%); in 32.6% of the cases no plausible explanation was found for muco-semen incompatibility. In 42.8% CMU infections were implicated in the muco-semen incompatibility; furthermore, there was associated dysspermia in 50% of the cases. AS-abs were found in the mucus or in the serum of 70% of the patients with CMU infections, while this figure went down to 34.6% in subjects not affected by such infections. None of the patients with CMU infections showed AS-abs either in the semen and/or in the serum. AS-abs were found in the serum of 25% of the female patients with so-called "unexplained" infertility. CMU infections are important for the determination of muco-semen incompatibility, both with and without dyspermia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ureaplasma urealyticum in the urogenital tract of patients with chronic prostatitis or related symptomatology.	To elucidate the role of Ureaplasma urealyticum as a causative organism in chronic prostatitis we investigated its incidence in the urogenital tract in 131 chronic prostatitis patients and 120 prostatodynia patients; the presence of common bacteria or Chlamydia trachomatis was also recorded. According to the 4-glass localisation test, U. urealyticum (> or = 10(3) ccu/ml) was isolated from the prostates of 16 prostatitis patients and 2 prostatodynia patients; 5 of these prostatitis patients (but neither of the prostatodynia patients) had other bacteria in specimens after prostatic massage. Thus U. urealyticum was the sole organism isolated from the prostates of 11 prostatitis and 2 prostatodynia patients, which suggests that it is an aetiological agent in some cases of chronic non-bacterial prostatitis.
Association of genital mycoplasma colonization with low birth weight.	This study was conducted to document the prevalence of maternal genital tract colonization by Ureaplasma urealyticum and Mycoplasma hominis, and to assess its association with low birth weight (LBW) and prematurity.
