Delayed presentation of paediatric penile constrictive band injury.	We report the case of a child with delayed presentation of partial amputation of the penis with complete transaction of the urethra following a self-inflicted constrictive band injury. Single-stage reconstruction of the urethra and corporae achieved a satisfactory immediate outcome.
Buccal mucosal graft urethroplasty for reversal of a perineal urethrostomy in a goat wether.	To describe the use of buccal mucosa as a urethral graft for reversal of perineal urethrostomy (PU) in a castrated male goat.
Prevalence of bacterial urinary tract infection after perineal urethrostomy in cats.	It has been reported that the prevalence of bacterial urinary tract infection (UTI) increases after perineal urethrostomy in male cats. Perineal urethrostomy, using a surgical technique preserving striated urethral sphincter function, was performed on 2 groups of cats. The first group consisted of healthy castrated cats. The second group of cats had recurrent or persistent urethral obstruction. All cats had normal urethral sphincter function after surgery, as measured by urethral pressure profilometry and electromyography. Long-term periodic urinalysis and bacterial culturing of urine was performed on all cats. Twenty-two percent of the previously obstructed cats had recurrent bacterial UTI, compared with none of the healthy cats. On the basis of these findings, we suggest that perineal urethrostomy per se does not predispose cats to bacterial UTI, but surgical alteration of the urethral meatus combined with an underlying uropathy may increase the prevalence of ascending bacterial UTI after surgery.
Efficacy of transurethral 2 microm laser urethrotomy in the treatment of urethral stricture and atresia]	To evaluate the curative efficacy of transurethral 2 microm thulium laser urethrotomy in the treatment of urethral stricture and atresia.
Surgery of obstructive urolithiasis in ruminants.	Most cases of obstructive urolithiasis will require surgical intervention at some point during the treatment process. Fluid, anti-inflammatory, antibiotic, and acidifying therapies should be used in support of surgical intervention. Surgical technique may be chosen based on the characteristics of the individual case, including site of obstruction, location of the rupture, and value of the animal. Prevention remains the mainstay of urolithiasis management. Identification of a case of obstructive urolithiasis should trigger action for the affected individual and the entire herd or flock of origin.
Ultrasound-guided pudendal nerve block in cats undergoing perineal urethrostomy: a prospective, randomised, investigator-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness, in terms of analgesic efficacy and safety, of ultrasound-guided pudendal nerve block performed with bupivacaine in cats undergoing perineal urethrostomy. Eighteen client-owned male cats scheduled for perineal urethrostomy were enrolled in the study and assigned to one of two treatment groups. The pudendal nerve block was performed under general anaesthesia, as described elsewhere, with 0.3 ml/kg of either saline (group C) or 0.5% bupivacaine (group B) - the total injection volume being split equally between the two sites of injection (left and right). Intra-operatively, assessment of nociception was based on the rescue analgesics requirement, as well as on the evaluation of changes in physiological parameters in comparison with the baseline values. Postoperative pain assessment was performed using three different pain scales at recovery and then 1, 2 and 3 h after recovery. Cats in group B showed lower heart rates and required fewer analgesics during surgery than group C. Postoperatively, group B had lower pain scores and needed less rescue buprenorphine than group C. Iatrogenic block-related complications were not observed. In conclusion, the ultrasound-guided pudendal nerve block can be considered clinically useful in feline medicine as it provides reliable analgesia in cats undergoing perineal urethrostomy. 
Use of the laser in urology]	The usage of laser therapy in urology is based upon thermal effects that lead to tissue destruction by coagulation necrosis and volatilization. The endoscopic treatment of bladder tumors has been its most important utilization. The authors report their experience with 681 bladder tumors in 198 patients and present the technical details of laser therapy, the indications and the results. The recurrence rate at the previously treated tumor area was found to be rather improved: 0.75/100 months/patient for stage pTa and 0.92/100 months/patient for stage pT1. Other utilizations for laser therapy exist: upper tract urothelial tumors mainly in selected cases as solitary kidney; urethral localizations of urothelial tumors and condylomata acuminata; urethral stenosis, as a complement of optical urethrotomy; hemorrhagic cystitis after radiotherapy and some forms of chemotherapy. The pulsed dye laser may become an important advance in endoscopic treatment of ureteral calculi.
Urethral reconstruction in females.	The report of 4 female patients operated on for severe functional impairment of the urethra gives rise to a historical review of the development of bladder flap procedures. Two patients had urethral reconstruction with a rotary bladder flap and 2 patients had urethral lengthening according to Leadbetter. Indications, mechanisms of continence and technical aspects of both procedures are discussed.
CO2 laser treatment of the Buschke-Löwenstein tumor]	On the basis of two casuistics is reported on the laser treatment of Buschke-Löwenstein tumours. Hereby the advantages of this method are emphasized and compared with the former treatment techniques.
Transurethral resection in children with urethral stricture and occlusion.	Technical considerations of urethral surgery in children are critical because of the small size and delicacy of the urethra. From 1984 to 1989, children ages 4 to 14 years with serious traumatic urethral strictures (n = 5) or occlusion (n = 5) were treated. For anterior lesions, transurethral resection (TUR) with a Storz urethroresectoscope (10F-15F) was used to excise all scar tissue after the stenotic tract had been incised or dilated. For lesions in the posterior urethra, the bladder was opened or the cystostomy tract dilated, allowing the operator's index finger to be passed to the posterior end of the lesion while an assistant's finger was inserted into the patient's rectum. A sharp-tip 4F sound was then guided up the urethra into the bladder, the lesion was dilated, and the scar tissue was excised. With an average of 24.4 months of follow-up, success was achieved in all patients, requiring one session in seven patients and two or three sessions in the others. Recurrences in three patients were cured by repeat TUR. There were three cases of epididymitis and two of scrotal edema. This procedure is recommended as the treatment of choice for children with urethral strictures or occlusions. Thorough clearance of scar tissue is valuable to enhance the cure rate.
