Ureterolithiasis and papilloma formation in the ureter of a guinea pig.	A 5-year-old guinea pig with suspected urolithiasis was presented for radiology and ultrasound examinations of the abdomen. Radiographically, an irregular-shaped mineral opacity was detected in the area of the urinary bladder. Ultrasonographically, pyelectasia of the right kidney, hydroureter with an ureterolith cranial to a thickened ureter wall close to the ureterovesical junction, and a thickened urinary bladder wall were detected. Histopathologically, the thickened ureter wall was found to be a papilloma. The ureter calculus consisted of 100% calcite.
Fibroepithelial ureteral polyps presenting as ureteropelvic obstruction.	A 57-year-old woman presented with bilateral abdominal pain and flank discomfort. Imaging studies, consisting of CT scan, diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid renal scan with Lasix and a retrograde pyelogram, indicated an obstruction at the uteropelvic junction (UPJ), possibly due to fibroepithelial polyps within the ureter. A robotic pyeloplasty revealed a ureteral diverticulum and a thin, still-attached fibroepithelial polyp of approximately 2 cm in length. The patient tolerated the procedure well and was discharged one day postpyeloplasty with no reported complications. This rare clinical scenario should be considered when formulating a diagnosis for a UPJ obstruction. 
Early ureteric changes in Schistosoma haematobium infection.	Radiological findings were analysed in 56 young patients with proven Schistosoma haematobium infection. In 31 patients (55%) changes were present in both the bladder and the ureters but in seven patients (13%) only ureteric changes were seen. Hypertrophy of the mucosa, mild stenosis, linear calcification, punctate calcification or 'ureteritis calcinosa' and polyps are highly suggestive features of an early involvement of the upper urinary tract in this insidious disease.
Radiolucent filling defects of the ureter (author's transl)]	Ureteral filling defects and their differential diagnosis are discussed. Excretory urography including late films and especially endoscopy in combination with retrograde ureterograms might clarify doubtful ureteral lesions.
Tantalum in diagnosing tumors of the ureter and renal pelvis. A preliminary report (author's transl)]	Differential diagnosis of small tumors of the ureter and renal pelvis is often difficult. Retrograde pyelogramm and tri-iodied contrast material is not effective in diagnosing small tumors and their surface condition. A retrograde pyelogram with a tantalum powder solution offers the following advantages: 1. Clearer representation of the tumor surface. 2. X-ray films show sharper contrast. 3. Small tumors could be seen that are not visible with routine contrast material. Preparation of tantalum solution and the technique of retrograde pyelogram are described.
Computed tomography of urinary calculi.	Computed tomography (CT) was used in the evaluation of nine patients with nonopaque calculi in the upper urinary tract. In each case the calculus was identified as a very high density object (370-586 Hounsfield units) with calcium oxalate and cystine stones having somewhat higher attenuation values than uric acid or xanthine stones. The differentiation between calculi and other "radiolucent" filling defects was readily made since calculi had much higher attenuation values than blood clot or neoplasm. CT of the upper urinary tract may obviate the need for more invasive procedures such as retrograde pyelography when nonopaque filling defects require differentiation.
Computed tomography of transitional-cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis and ureter.	Preoperative staging of transitional-cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract is important for identification of those tumors amenable to limited resection. Twenty-two patients were examined using computed tomography (CT), and three patterns were noted: (a) a focal intraluminal mass, (b) ureteral wall thickening with luminal narrowing, and (c) an infiltrating mass. In most cases, attenuation was similar to that of soft tissue; one tumor was calcified. Tumors of the renal pelvis may exhibit contrast enhancement. In 11 cases, excretory urography was inadequate or not attempted. CT demonstrated the site and cause of obstruction in all cases and proved to be a useful noninvasive staging procedure for suspected or proved transitional-cell carcinoma of the upper urinary tract.
Transitional cell carcinoma of the distal portion of ureter protruding into the sigmoid conduit six years after cystoprostatectomy.	Bladder tumors develop after the diagnosis of upper urinary tract carcinoma in approximately 20% of cases, whereas the incidence of upper urinary tract tumor after the diagnosis of bladder cancer is low, approximately 2%. In a 64-year-old man who had undergone cystoprostatectomy treatment of bladder carcinoma 6 years previously, with the sigmoid conduit used for supravesicle diversion, a transitional cell carcinoma that developed in the conduit was not revealed with intravenous pyelography at regular follow-up intervals. The patient had only hematuria. After an obstructed left kidney, left ureteral stricture, and a filling defect in the conduit were observed radiologically and biopsy revealed a transitional cell carcinoma at the ureterosigmoid junction, the patient underwent left nephroureterectomy, partial resection of a third of the sigmoid conduit, and right ureteral reimplantation. The occurrence of upper urinary tract carcinoma after treatment of bladder cancer should be considered even in light of intravenous pyelography that shows no abnormality; and when such carcinomas occur in this situation, disease involving the conduit should be ruled out.
Ureteric urine examination.	Uterteric urine examination can give definitive evidence of upper urinary tract carcinoma and three cases are described and illustrated. The absence of carcinoma cells in such specimens, however, does not exclude malignancy for two reasons. First, the tumours may be well differentiated and the cells not recognized at cytological examination and, secondly, carcinoma cells may not appear in ureteric urine specimens since they can be reluctant to exfoliate.
