Benefits of ureteroscopic pneumatic lithotripsy for the treatment of impacted ureteral stones.	Although new forms of lithotripsy, such as new-generation shockwave and laser lithotripsies, have recently been developed, the optimal treatment for impacted ureteral stones (IUS) remains controversial. We investigated, retrospectively, the outcome of IUS treated with ureteroscopic pneumatic lithotripsy.
Independent predictors of failure of shockwave lithotripsy for ureteral stones employing a second-generation lithotripter.	To define factors associated with the failure of shockwave lithotripsy (SWL) in the treatment of ureteral stones.
Relationship between extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy and semen parameters in patients with lower ureteral stones.	The objective of this study was to investigate whether extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy can affect semen parameters in patients with distal ureteral stones. We concluded that extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy could reduce sperm concentration and motility permanently in men with lower ureteral stones.
Cavitation cluster dynamics in shock-wave lithotripsy: part 1. Free field.	The spatiotemporal dynamics of cavitation bubble growth and collapse in shock-wave lithotripsy in a free field was studied experimentally. The lithotripter was equipped with two independently triggerable layers of piezoceramics. The front and back layers generated positive pressure amplitudes of 30 MPa and 15 MPa, respectively, and -10 MPa negative amplitude. The time interval between the launch of the shock waves was varied from 0 and 0.1 s, covering the regimens of pulse-modification (regimen A, delay 0 to 4 micros), shock wave-cavitation cluster interaction (B, 4 micros to 64 micros) and shock wave-gas bubble interaction (C, 256 micros to 0.1 s). The time-integrated cavitation activity was most strongly influenced in regimen A and, in regimen B, the spatial distribution of bubbles was altered, whereas enhancement of cavitation activity was observed in regimen C. Quantitative measurements of the spatial- and time-integrated void fractions were obtained with a photographic and light-scattering technique. The preconditions for a reproducible experiment are explained, with the existence of two distinct types of cavitation nuclei, small particles suspended in the liquid and residuals of bubbles from prior cavitation clusters.
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for ureteral calculi.	Second generation tubless lithotriptors allow for easy prone positioning of patients, resulting in increased use of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) for calculi in the ureter, especially in the mid and lower third portions. The 3-month stone-free rate with single stones using a Dornier HM3 and a Medstone STS lithotriptor in the upper ureter was 79% (316 patients) and 81% (188), respectively, while in the mid ureter it was 60% (20 patients) and 81% (32), respectively, and in the lower ureter it was 80% (5 patients) and 85% (26), respectively. The retreatment rate with single stones using the Dornier HM3 and the Medstone STS devices was 5% and 4%, respectively, in the upper ureter, 13% and 12%, respectively, in the mid ureter, and 0% and 5%, respectively, in the lower ureter. The second procedure rate after ESWL with single stones using the Dornier HM3 and the Medstone STS units was 6% and 6%, respectively, in the upper ureter, 15% and 16%, respectively, in the mid ureter, and 0% and 17%, respectively, in the lower ureter. Expectant management is still an acceptable method to treat small ureteral stones, and it is questionable whether ESWL is the appropriate treatment for lower third ureteral stones compared to equally effective and less expensive ureteroscopy.
Treatment strategy for piezoelectric shock wave lithotripsy of upper ureteral calculi.	In situ piezoelectric lithotripsy monotherapy for upper ureteral stones is an attractive option because it can be conducted on an outpatient basis. Difficulty in calculus localization with ultrasound is the limiting factor. We reviewed our experience with 99 patients treated for upper ureteral calculi with the EDAP LT.01 lithotriptor. For stones above the lower renal border we achieved a 53% stone-free rate compared to 25% for calculi below the lower renal border. In situ piezoelectric lithotripsy of upper ureteral calculi may be considered for stones above the lower renal border.
Upper-pole access for percutaneous nephrolithotomy: comparison of supracostal and infracostal approaches.	The advantage of upper-pole access for nephrolithotomy is direct access to most of the intrarenal collecting system and upper ureter. Upper-pole access can be achieved either supracostally and subcostally. Because of the anatomic location of the kidneys, the supracostal approach is associated with a higher rate of pulmonary complications. We compared the efficacy and safety of the supracostal and infracostal upper-pole approaches.
Asymptomatic spontaneous migration of double pigtail ureteral stent outside the ureter.	We report a case of asymptomatic spontaneous migration outside the ureter of a double pigtail ureteral stent. This previously undescribed complication confirms the need for regular follow-up of patients with indwelling stents.
Estimation of size of distal ureteral stones: noncontrast CT scan versus actual size.	To determine the accuracy of stone size determination by computed tomography (CT) for distal ureteral calculi.
Stenting or not prior to extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy for ureteral stones? Results of a prospective randomized study.	To determine the need for pre-treatment stenting in patients undergoing extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL) for ureteral stones sized 4-10 mm.
Revisiting the predictive factors for intra-operative complications of rigid ureteroscopy: a 15-year experience.	To revise the predictive factors for intra-operative complications of rigid ureteroscopy in the treatment of ureteral calculi.
A new technique for retrograde stone displacement in the tortuous ureter before extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.	A tortuous ureter can prevent a ureteral calculus from being manipulated into the kidney before extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. We describe a technique using a floppy-tip guide wire and a double channel cystoscope to manipulate a stone from a tortuous ureter into the kidney.
Sex differences in the crystalline composition of stones from the upper urinary tract.	Stones from the upper urinary tract of 172 male and 73 female patients have been analyzed by X-ray diffraction. Pure calcium oxalate stones contribute 39.5% of all stones from men, but only 6.9% of stones from women. This difference is consistent both above and below 50 years of age and largely independent of whether patients with known causes of stone formation are excluded. Other sex differences, such as a greater tendency to pure calcium phosphate and triple phosphate stones in female patients, are to a large extent dependent on demonstrable causes. The possibility of analysis error is discussed, considering the possibility of minor amounts of calcium phosphate being overlooked in "pure" calcium oxalate stones. Although this possibility cannot be rejected, there will still be a definite male preponderance of calcium oxalate stones with no or minimal admixture of calcium phosphate.
Immediate effects of extracorporeal shock waves on the male genital system of rabbit. Preliminary report.	Hemospermia was reported to occur following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy of lower ureteric stones. Because no studies showed clearly the possible effect of extracorporeal shock waves (ESW) on the male genital system, we were prompted to study this effect. Eighteen male white New Zealand rabbits were divided into three groups (six in each) and subjected to different doses of ESW (2000, 3000 and 4000) using a Dornier MFL 5000. Shocks were focused on the lower parts of the bladder. Four animals were used as controls. Two hours later, the animals were dissected. Gross examination of the genital systems showed bleeding in the testicles and prostates of only some animals, whereas microscopic examination revealed bloody spots in the genital structures of all animals. The amount of bleeding was ESW dose-independent. In conclusion, ESW showed evident immediate effects on the male genital system. Application of shock waves in treating lower ureteric or vesical stones in doses between 2000 and 4000 may cause bleeding in the structures of this system, which can lead to hemospermia. More studies will be needed to show the long-term sequelae of these changes on the male genital system.
Ureteroscopic treatment of ureteric lithiasis. Analysis of 354 urs procedures in a community hospital.	The optimal treatment of ureteric lithiasis continues to be a point of discussion, as there are different treatment modalities. Conservative treatment, EWSL, ureteroscopy (URS), percutaneous litholapaxy, and (laparoscopic) ureterolithotomy, all have there place in the treatment of ureteric lithiasis. In order to evaluate if ureteroscopy is a valuable alternative to ESWL in the treatment of ureteric lithiasis, an analysis of all the ureteroscopies performed in our institution was made and these results were compared with results (both ESWL and URS) described in literature.
