Cross-sectional imaging in ureter tumors: findings and staging accuracy of various modalities.	We present cross-sectional imaging findings in eight patients with ureter tumors. Eight patients were examined by computed tomography (CT), seven by ultrasonography (US), and five by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). All the lesions were detected by the three modalities. All modalities were accurate in excluding the periureteral invasion and lymphadenopathy in Stages 1 and 2 tumors. While CT and MRI identified the periureteral invasion and lymphadenopathy in four patients with advanced tumors, US failed to show the local invasion in three of four patients. Nevertheless, enlarged retroperitoneal lymph nodes could be detected sonographically in the three Stage 4 tumors. CT and MRI appear to have a high diagnostic sensitivity and staging accuracy in ureter tumors. Although US detects ureter tumors efficiently, this technique seems to be unreliable in showing local invasion in a substantial number of patients.
Cytologic analysis of ureteral washings is informative in patients with grade 2 upper tract TCC considering endoscopic treatment.	To determine the diagnostic accuracy of ureteroscopic biopsy and whether exfoliated cell cytology can improve diagnostic accuracy.
Upper urinary tract tumours]	To evaluate diagnostic techniques, treatment and follow-up in 94 patients affected of upper urinary tract tumor.
Primary adenocarcinoma of the ureter. Case report]	Primary ureteral adenocarcinoma is an infrequent histological type of urinary neoplasm. Many authors consider intestinal metaplasia the pivotal event of the pathogenetic process, whether it occurs on a pre-existing urothelial carcinoma or on a normal urothelium. Diagnosis is essentially based on case history and clinical findings (hematuria and pain) and on diagnostic imaging. Treatment is surgical and the ideal procedure is nephroureterectomy with excision of a bladder margin adjacent to the ureteral opening and ispilateral para-aortoiliac lymphadenectomy. A 76-year-old man with primary adenocarcinoma of the ureter case is reported.
Could be ureteral endometriosis considered a symptomatic and severe urological disease?	Ureteral endometriosis is a rare localization of gynecological disease. We presented a case of left ureteral endometriosis in a 30-year-old woman with left abdominal pain and a radiological nonfunctioning kidney. Surgical treatment with ureteral resection and uretero-uretero anastomosys was conducted. Pathological examination of surgical specimen revealed endometriosis. The diagnosis of ureteral endometriosis should be considered in women with renal symptoms of noncalculous obstruction, particularly in premenopausal women with an anamnesys of polycistic ovary disease (POD) or severe menstrual related symptoms, although the disease is often strictly associated with silent renal obstruction. Only a high index of suspicion and the radiological support may help the urologist to obtain a early diagnosis. Early detection and prompt treatment strategy, surgical too, are extremely important to relieve symptoms and preserve renal function. The literature was reviewed.
Primary malignant lymphoma of the ureter: a case report]	A 58-year-old man who had right hydronephrosis pointed out by medical checkup visited our hospital. Computed tomography and retrograde pyelography revealed a soft tissue mass in the middle portion of the right ureter. Urine cytology specimen from the right ureter suggested transitional cell carcinoma. Under the diagnosis of right ureteral cancer, we performed right total nephro-ureterectomy, partial cystectomy. The histopathological examination showed non-Hodgkin lymphoma (large B-cell type) of the ureter. Our diagnosis was Clinical Stage IE of the Ann Arbor Classification. The patient received only the first course of systemic chemotherapy (THP-cop), because he suffered severe thrombocytopenia in the course of the chemotherapy. No recurrence was found for 15 months after operation, and at present he is disease-free.
Clinical analysis of 123 cases of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of upper urinary tract]	With the development of diagnostic techniques of imaging, and application of endoscope, early diagnosis and treatment of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of upper urinary tract have been improved to a great extent in recent years, but still caused debates. In this article, we discussed the diagnostic and therapeutic methods of TCC of upper urinary tract.
Papillary adenocarcinoma of the renal pelvis and ureter producing carcinoembryonic antigen, carbohydrate antigen 19-9 and carbohydrate antigen 125.	We report a case of advanced renal pelvis and ureter adenocarcinoma producing carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), carbohydrate antigen 19-9 (CA19-9) and carbohydrate antigen 125 (CA125). A 72-year-old woman was diagnosed with right renal pelvic and ureter tumor with para-aortic lymph node swelling. Biopsy of the ureteral mass revealed papillary adenocarcinoma. Serum levels of CEA, CA19-9 and CA125 were extremely elevated. The patient was successfully treated with paclitaxel/carboplatin chemotherapy followed by surgery.
Primary ureteral adenocarcinoma. Ureteroscopic diagnosis]	A case of primary adenocarcinoma of the ureter that had been diagnosed by ureteroscopy is described, highlighting the form of presentation and treatment. The anatomopathological features as well as the method employed for diagnosis make this an extremely uncommon case.
Malignant lymphoma of the ureter: a case report]	We report a case of malignant lymphoma (ML) of the ureter. A 71-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with the chief complaint of macroscopic hematuria. IVP showed the dilation of left ureter and renal pelvis. Retrograde pyelography showed a 2cm filling defect in the right middle ureter. From the data given, a right ureteral tumor was suspected, and we performed tumor biopsy under an ureteral scope. Since it was diagnosed not as transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of ureter but as ML with strong inflammation, partial ureterectomy and uretero-uretero anastomosis were done. Histological diagnosis was B cell follicular center lymphoma. Because Ga-scintigraphy revealed no evidence of other involement, it was diagnosed as ML originating from ureter. ML secondarily invading the urinary tract organs is commonly found, but ML originating from the urinary tract is rare. Especially, in regards to ML originating from ureter, only 16 cases have been reported in Japan.
Utility of fluorescence in situ hybridization as a non-invasive technique in the diagnosis of upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma.	To assess the clinical utility of a fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) assay as a non-invasive method for diagnosing and monitoring urothelial carcinoma (UC) in the upper urinary tract (UUT).
A case of primary leiomyoma of the ureter.	This report describes a case of primary leiomyoma of the ureter in which only partial ureterectomy was performed based on the diagnosis of benign tumor by rapid diagnosis using a frozen section during the operation. Surgical treatment was opted for upon diagnosis of a submucosal tumor of the right ureter, with no abnormal findings in the ureteral mucosa by ureteroscopy. To our knowledge, nine cases have been reported worldwide since 1955, suggesting this case to be the 10th.
Retrograde laser-ablation with flexible ureterorenoscope of an upper urinary tract tumor in an orthotopic urinary diversion.	We report a case of a right upper urinary tract tumor (UUTT) in a patient submitted two years before to a radical cystectomy with an orthotopic urinary diversion. Excretory urography (IVP) showed a filling defect in the right renal pelvis, confirmed by contrast enhanced multislice spiral computerized tomography and virtual ureteroscopy. A flexible uretero-renoscopy showed a papillary tumor in the renal pelvis. Multiple biopsies, by a 3 Fr forceps, with frozen sections allowed us to establish the diagnosis of low-grade (G2) urothelial neoplasm. In the same session, we performed a laser-ablation of the tumor by an Holmium-laser fiber. During the endoscopic follow-up every three months, at the sixth month we had an high grade (G3) recurrence in the renal pelvis and ureteropelvic junction. The patient subsequently underwent to a radical right nephroureterectomy. When the urothelial tumors are small and low-grade, the retrograde conservative treatment is feasible. We try to avoid the percutaneous access because of higher morbidity and the possible seeding of nephrostomic tract, even if this complication is uncommon. However a careful endoscopic surveillance is mandatory, because of high frequency of local recurrences. In our case the main difficulty was caused by the ileal orthotopic neobladder, that made hard to visualize the ureteral orifice and to go up into the kidney.
Malignant tumors of the normotopic kidneys and ureters following kidney transplantation]	There is an 4.2-23% incidence of cancer in renal transplant recipients. A closely meshed radiological follow-up is important as shown in 3 patients who developed a carcinoma of the kidney or ureter within 1-5 years after renal transplantation. This includes routine sonography of the whole abdomen, in case of pathological findings CT respectively MRI, i.v. urography, retrograde urography and angiography if needed.
Ureteral stump carcinoma incidentally found at cystectomy for bladder cancer.	We report on a sixty-five-year-old man with hematuria secondary to superficial bladder cancer. Because of previous urethral trauma, a complete transurethral resection of his bladder tumor could not be done. He, therefore, underwent cystectomy, at which time we incidentally found a transitional cell carcinoma of the left ureteral stump that had been left from a previous left nephrectomy for a World War II-related injury. This case underscores the importance of a thorough investigation of the complete urinary tract in a patient with hematuria or other urinary tract symptoms even if an obvious cause is found for his symptoms.
The first description of an extramedullary plasmacytoma of the ureter.	Causes for acquired unilateral obstruction of the ureter are numerous: calculi, infections, blood clots and tumors are the most common underlying pathologies. Hematologic tumors with initial clinical manifestation in the lower urinary tract are rare. Primary localization of plasmocytoma has been described in kidney, bladder and urethra. Herein, we describe the first manifestation of a primary solitary extramedullary plasmacytoma of the ureter. The tumor was discovered upon diagnostic workup of gross hematuria and asymptomatic hydronephrosis. Thus far, after radical surgery the patient remains free of disease.
In the cystoscopic follow-up of non-muscle-invasive transitional cell carcinoma, NMP-22 works for high grades, but unreliable in low grades and upper urinary tract tumors.	Two percent of the bladder non-muscle-invasive (NMI) transitional cell carcinomas (TCC) are associated with upper urinary tract (UUT) TCC. We evaluated the role of nuclear matrix protein-22 (NMP-22) (BladderChek) test in the diagnosis of lower urinary tract and UUT-TCC.
Impact of the length of time between diagnosis and surgical removal of urologic neoplasms on survival.	Our aim was to assess the effect of surgical wait time on the survival of patients with urological neoplasms, including prostate, bladder, penile, and testicular cancers and upper tract tumours (UTUC).
Oncological outcomes of renal pelvic and ureteral cancer patients registered in 2005: the first large population report from the Cancer Registration Committee of the Japanese Urological Association.	To describe the clinical and pathological characteristics and the outcomes of renal pelvic and ureteral cancer patients diagnosed in 2005 in Japan.
Treatment of superficial papillary transitional cell carcinoma of the ureter by vesicoureteral reflux of mitomycin C.	We report 2 cases of recurrent superficial papillary transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder with right vesicoureteral reflux in which superficial papillary transitional cell carcinoma developed in the distal ureter with reflux. Both patients received intravesical mitomycin C that was delivered by the vesicoureteral reflux to the tumor sites. Diagnosis and management were facilitated through the use of ureteroscopy, which allowed for accurate pathological staging and surveillance. No systemic toxicity or change in renal function was noted in either patient and both have remained free of recurrent tumor for more than 2 years.
Diagnosis of urothelial tumor by ureterorenoscopy.	In the past, radiologically detected filling defects in the upper urinary tract were correctly interpretable only by means of cytological techniques. The introduction of ureterorenoscopy has provided a reliable method for the detection of tumors in the ureter and renal pelvis. In contrast to transurethral ureterolithotripsy, diagnostic ureterorenoscopy entails few complications. It thus fills a diagnostic gap and facilitates therapeutic planning. A report is presented on 15 patients with obscure hematuria, or unclear filling defects in the upper urinary tract. In 10 patients, the unequivocal diagnosis of urothelial carcinoma was endoscopically and bioptically established by ureterorenoscopy. Small nonradiopaque concrements were found in 3 cases. The origin of hemorrhage could not be determined in 2 patients.
Intrinsic endometriosis of the ureter]	Two cases of ureteral endometriosis are reported and the literature is reviewed with special emphasis on symptoms and therapy. New diagnostic methods such as computer assisted tomography, ultra-sonography and urinary cytology are discussed and evaluated. Intrinsic ureteral endometriosis should be treated with local resection, and reimplantation with the psoas-hitch technique. The need for post-operative hormonal management must be adapted to each case.
Neurofibroma of the ureter.	We report a case of neurofibroma of the ureter without other clinical signs of von Recklinghausen's neurofibromatosis. The patient presented with flank pain, and excretory urography, retrograde urography and computerized abdominal tomography demonstrated a ureteral mass. The light and electron microscopic characteristics, as well as the histogenesis of ureteral neurofibroma, are discussed.
Phenacetin abuse IV. Are cytological urine studies successful and usable in the prevention of tumors in phenacetin abusers?]	971 samples of urine and washes of the urinary bladder in 643 patients were investigated cytologically. Urothelial carcinoma was present in 27 patients. In 11 cases the carcinoma was diagnosed by urinary cytology; 7 of the carcinomas were localized in the urinary bladder, 3 in the renal pelvis and 1 in the ureter. By contrast, all 19 tumors diagnosed in washes were localized in the urinary bladder. Diagnostic sensitivity was 100% in urine and about 75% in bladder washes. In 5 other patients cytologic diagnosis of carcinoma could not be confirmed by histology. In 4 of these, urothelial papillomas were present and in 1 patient a carcinoma of the bladder had been resected previously. Thus, the diagnostic accuracy of urinary cytology is good if essential methodological prerequisites are fulfilled. Therefore, urinary cytology appears to be an appropriate method for screening programmes in high risk patients such as phenacetin abusers. The estimated costs of a screening programme in Basel are 50 000-150 000 Swiss francs. However, a preliminary study to verify the value of such a screening programme is suggested.
Primary tumors of the ureter]	During the recent 18 years 13 patients aged 39-62 years with primary ureteral tumors were observed. The principal clinical symptoms were hematuria, pain in the lumbar region, a palpated kidney. the main diagnostic methods were as follows: cystoscopy, catheterization of the ureter, excretory urography (in early stages of the disease), retrograde ureteropyelography or antegrade pyeloureterography. Only radical surgery--nephro-ureteroectomy with resection of the urinary bladder wall around the ureteral ostium, performed in early stages, yields satisfactory results in 50-60% of cases. Indications to some or other kind of surgery should be formuated on the basis of express-biopsy results.
Benign fibroepithelial ureteral polyps. Report of 3 cases.	Three rare cases of benign ureteral polyps are presented. The rareness of benign mesenchymal ureteral tumors and the difficulty in pre-operative differential diagnosis from malignant epithelial are remarkable. The diagnosis is made on characteristic appearance at operation and is confirmed by frozen section and histological examination.
A case of kidney and ureter tuberculosis causing diagnostic difficulties]	A case is presented of tuberculosis of the kidney and ureter with negative bacteriological examination, suspected of malignant tumour. The diagnosis was based on histological examination of ureteral specimen taken intraoperatively.
Ureteroscopic management of transitional cell carcinoma of the ureter using the neodymium:YAG laser.	Ureteroscopy offers an extension of endoscopic diagnosis and treatment to upper urinary tract malignancy. Combination of ureteroscopy and the Nd:YAG laser permits accurate and effective treatment of ureteral neoplasms. Nine highly selected patients, six males and three females, were treated with low grade papillary transitional cell carcinomas of the ureter with at least 24 months follow-up. Follow-up cytology and IVP have indicated no evidence for disease recurrence between the follow-up periods and minimal morbidity to the ureteroscopy and laser treatment.
Carcinoma in situ on ureteric stump after cystectomy treated by BCG]	Intravesical BCG is the reference adjuvant therapy for superficial urothelial tumours. Its adverse effects and the modalities of follow-up are now clearly established. We treated a female patient by antegrade BCG instillation for a carcinoma in situ discovered in a ureteric stump following cystectomy for generalised CIS. Treatment was well tolerated and no recurrence was observed with a follow-up of 3 years.
Primary leiomyosarcoma of the ureter.	We report the thirteenth case of primary leiomyosarcoma of the ureter, as well as a summary of previous cases. It is the first case reported to be studied by computer tomography and immunohistochemical procedure. Further evaluation included intravenous pyelogram, cystoscopy with retrograde pyelogram, cell block for cytology, and electron microscopy. Leiomyosarcoma is a very rare disease that is difficult to diagnose. It has a very poor 5-year disease-specific survival.
Fibroepithelial polyps of the ureter and the kidney pelvis. Report of 3 cases]	The authors report 3 cases of fibroepithelial polyps, one of which was an incidental finding and 2 were symptomatic, presenting in the form of macroscopic haematuria and chronic back pain, respectively. These lesions required 2 nephroureterectomies because of their renal repercussions or their multifocal nature, combined with segmental resection of the ureter, including the base of the tumour. In the light of these cases, the authors review the literature and analyse the current management of this rare disease, in particular the indications for endourological techniques which appear to have a major diagnostic contribution as a complement to IVU and retrograde urography, but whose therapeutic value has yet to be defined.
Cytological changes due to urinary calculi: a consideration of the relationship between calculi and the development of urothelial carcinoma.	Urinary calculi can induce urothelial cellular abnormalities comparable with those of malignancy; this was found in 11 out of 62 lithiasis cases. Severe cellular changes, comparable with those of carcinoma in situ, may be seen in the epithelium adjacent to a calculus. Squamous metaplasia was frequently observed in cases with staghorn stones in the renal pelvis. The abrasive effect of the calculus may result in many multinucleated cells in the sediment. When the calculi are removed the cytological atypia and the observed multinucleation disappeared, and none of these 62 patients developed urothelial carcinoma. A possible relationship was found between a long-term clinical history of lithiasis and the development of cancer of the upper urinary tract in a study of 92 cases of carcinoma of the ureter and renal pelvis.
Bilateral ureteral inverted papilloma with synchronous transitional cell tumor of the bladder.	Inverted papillomas are benign urothelial tumors. The majority of cases occur in the bladder, while inverted papillomas of the upper urinary tract are very rare. The association of inverted papillomas of the bladder and urothelial malignancy is documented, but the incidence is low. Inverted papillomas of the upper urothelial tract coexist frequently with urothelial malignancy. Close follow-up with urography and cystoscopy is mandatory in such patients. We describe a case with synchronous bilateral ureteral inverted papilloma and a transitional cell tumor of the bladder, illustrating the strong association of upper urothelial tract inverted papilloma and urothelial malignancy.
A combination of semiquantitative telomerase assay and in-cell telomerase activity measurement using exfoliated urothelial cells for the detection of urothelial neoplasia.	Telomerase is a ribonucleoprotein that synthesizes telomeres. It is detected in more than 85% of samples obtained from cancer tissues, including urologic neoplasia. The authors determined telomerase activity semiquantatively and in-cell telomerase activity in exfoliated urothelial cells obtained from urologic neoplasia specimens. The goal of this study was to provide additional information regarding a noninvasive approach to the detection of urologic neoplasia.
