Iatrogenic ureteral lesions in open surgery: review of 10 years]	To carry out a revision of iatrogenic ureteral damage during open surgery occurred in our hospital over a 10-year period, to review the literature and to contrast the results.
Extensive ureteral lesions: management with substitution with small intestine]	Wide ureteral injuries are unusual but not exceptional and have few conservative therapeutic options, specially those that involve the upper ureter. Autotransplantation, ureteral substitution by intestine and combined Boari bladder flap-psoas bladder hitch are basically the only chances to avoid nephrectomy. In this paper we report five cases in which ileum was used to substitute the ureter and review the most outstanding literature about this subject.
The value of intra-operative cystoscopy at the time of laparoscopic hysterectomy.	The aim of this study was to determine the usefulness of routine intra-operative cystoscopy in documenting ureteral injury during total laparoscopic hysterectomy with vault suspension and to document the incidence of this complication in a large series. The charts of 118 patients who underwent laparoscopic hysterectomy with vault suspension from January 1992 to January 1998 were retrospectively reviewed. The patients underwent intra-operative cystoscopic evaluation to verify ureteral permeability and bladder integrity. Intra-operative ureteral obstruction occurred in four patients (3.4%). All complications were immediately fixed and there were no postoperative ureteral problems. No late ureteral complications were observed. Intra-operative cystoscopy allows for early recognition and treatment of obstructive ureteral injuries and may reduce the rate of late postoperative complications during advanced laparoscopic procedures.
Augmentation ileocystoplasty as a treatment of vesicoureteral injury following rectal amputation: a case report]	A 65-year-old man underwent transperineal drainage of pelvic abscess after rectal amputation for rectal cancer. The bladder wall and right ureter were injured during this operation, which led to vesicoperineal fistula and contracted bladder. We performed partial resection of the bladder (fistulectomy), augmentation ileocystoplasty (Cup-patch technique), and bilateral ureteral reimplantation (LeDuc-Camey technique). After surgery, the patient was able to void without any residual urine or incontinence. There was no hydronephrosis or resicoureteral reflux postoperatively. Augmentation cystoplasty is usually performed to treat a contracted bladder, but it can also be applied for the reconstruction of complicated lower urinary tract injury, and may improve the quality of life (QOL) dramatically.
Penetrating ureteral trauma at an urban trauma center: 10-year experience.	To review the evaluation and management of patients with penetrating ureteral injuries not associated with iatrogenic etiology.
Ureteral injury presenting with hyponatremia.	Ureteral injuries in gynecologic surgery, although rare, classically present with a well-described constitution of symptoms. Hyponatremia in association with ureteral injury has not been described.
Minimally invasive management of ureteral injuries recognized late after obstetric and gynaecologic surgery.	We evaluated whether iatrogenic ureteral injuries recognized late after obstetric and gynaecological surgery were likely to resolve with minimally invasive strategies. We reviewed our records of 30 patients with surgical ureteral injuries diagnosed after obstetric and gynaecological operations. From collected data, the outcome of minimally invasive strategies and operative repair was evaluated and compared. Thirteen patients were treated primarily by operative repair and 17 were treated by minimally invasive strategies including percutaneous nephrostomy drainage, ureteral stent placement, or both. All patients treated by operative repair obtained primary healing. Of 17 patients treated by minimally invasive strategies, 11 had recovery of injured ureters but additional procedures were needed in six. We conclude that minimally invasive strategies are not always successful in the management of ureteral injuries recognized late after obstetric and gynaecological surgery.
Early and late complications of radical retropubic prostatectomy: experience in a single institution.	Radical retropubic prostatectomy is one of the first-line treatments for clinically organ-confined prostatic cancer. However, some studies have reported the morbidity of this procedure. We retrospectively assessed the incidence of complications of radical retropubic prostatectomy in our institution.
Urological injuries during hysterectomies: a 6-year review.	Urological injuries that occur during hysterectomy are a rare but important cause of morbidity. An understanding of the risk factors can help us to reduce their incidence and studying their management and outcome could help us to evolve optimal management strategies. The aim of the present study was to examine the incidence of urological injuries that occur during hysterectomy and to determine the risk factors, management and outcome of such injuries.
Percutaneous antegrade ureteral stenting as an adjunct for treatment of complicated ureteral injuries.	We report our use of percutaneous antegrade ureteral stenting (PAUS) as an adjunct for the management of dehisced ureteral repairs and delayed-presentation ureteral injuries secondary to penetrating trauma. This procedure was performed in treating six patients with ureteral injuries. Four patients had dehiscence of a lacerated ureter that had been primarily repaired. Two other patients had ureteral contusions that subsequently became full-thickness disruptions postoperatively. One of these patients developed a pancreaticoureteral fistula. The sepsis resolved in all six patients and in five of the six patients the ureteral disruption healed within 2 months after PAUS without operative intervention. In one patient the ureter healed with stricture, necessitating ureteral reanastomosis. All urinomas resolved with percutaneous drainage. The PAUS technique was used to successfully treat four dehisced ureteral repairs and was the primary method used to successfully treat two disrupted ureteral contusions that were associated with multiple collections and fistulas. These techniques can be utilized for complex ureteral injuries associated with pancreatic leaks, colon or duodenal injuries, and multiple abscesses.
Laparoscopic extravesical ureteral reimplantation in adults using intracorporeal freehand suturing: report of two cases.	Laparoscopic extravesical neoureterocystostomy is an infrequently described technique in adults. It is a technically demanding procedure, especially when the intracorporeal freehand suturing technique is used. Our aim is to describe two cases where we used the intracorporeal freehand suturing technique successfully for performing laparoscopic extravesical transperitoneal ureteral reimplantation. We describe the preliminary results of these cases.
Laparoscopic ureteral reconstruction: intracorporal reconfiguration of ileum and colon in a porcine model.	Long ureteral defects can be reconstructed in humans with reconfigured short colonic or ileal segments. We undertook the present study to evaluate whether laparoscopy with completely intracorporal reconfiguration could replicate open surgery results.
Management of ureteral injuries associated with vaginal surgery for pelvic organ prolapse.	Due to the anatomic proximity of the urinary and genital tracts, iatrogenic ureteral injury during pelvic organ prolapse repairs is a serious complication that we have managed in increasing number at our institution. However, few centers have reported on their experience with ureteric injuries associated with gynecologic reconstructive surgery. These ureteral injuries may lead to much morbidity, in particular the formation of ureterovaginal fistula, and the potential loss of renal function especially when diagnosed postoperatively. It is necessary, therefore, for surgeons to have a thorough knowledge of ureteral anatomy and to take precautions to prevent such injuries. The purpose of this article is to review this pertinent anatomy and the key principles of management of ureteric complications of transvaginal surgery for pelvic organ prolapse. The present study illustrates the application of our treatment algorithm based on the time of presentation and the patient condition.
Ureteral injury in obstetric and gynecologic operations in Nigeria.	Forty-eight cases of ureteral injuries resulting from obstetric gynecologic surgery were treated at the University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital between January 1978 and December 1987. Cesarean sections and cesarean hysterectomies were the leading causes of injury, being responsible for 18 (38%) and 12 (25%) of the cases, respectively. Ureteral transection was the commonest lesion observed, being noted in 29 (60%) of the patients. Attempt was made to reimplant the ureter into the bladder whenever possible, thus ureteroneocystostomy was performed in 27 (56%) cases while only 3 cases of end to end anastomosis were done. There was a case of mortality recorded from one of the referred patients. Forty patients recovered normal renal function after repair. Repair of ureteric injury as soon as the patient is fit for surgery is recommended.
Morphologic changes in the canine urinary tract after ureteral reconstruction with the tunica albuginea (experimental study).	The problem of ureteral reconstruction has not been fully solved, despite dramatic developments in surgical methods. Many attempts to repair a ureteral damage with autologous or homologous organ grafts, or with organic substitutes have not really been satisfactory. Also, attempts to use alloplastic and heteroplastic prostheses made of synthetic materials have been equally disappointing. Experimental studies, particularly in dogs, indicate great regenerative abilities of ureters when appropriate surgical techniques are used.
Laparoscopic repair of delayed-onset ureter injury.	Ureter injury is typically a rare complication, albeit with serious sequelae, of a hysterectomy procedure, especially after laparoscopic hysterectomy. Herein we report on a successful laparoscopic reanastomosis of the ureter conducted at the ureterovesical junction.
Vertebromedullary wound with ureteral fistula.	We report a case of associated vertebromedullary and ureteral lesions in a severely injured patient, a victim of a gunshot aggression in Africa. Urine extended from the ureteral fistula through the third lumbar vertebral body, blended with cerebrospinal fluid from the dural attrition, and flowed very slowly through the dorsal exit ballistic hole. This is to our knowledge the first such case described in the literature. Uro-computed tomography scan finally made the diagnosis of ureteral fistula after two neurosurgical procedures determined that initially presumed dural persistent fistula needed to be closed.
Ureteral injury during gynecological laparoscopic surgeries: report of twelve cases.	To investigate ureteral injury during gynecological laparoscopic surgeries.
Ureteroscopy: savior to the gynecologist? Ureteroscopic management of post laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy ureterovaginal fistulas.	Iatrogenic ureteral injuries are among the most serious complications in gynecologic surgery. With the increasing popularity of laparoscopic gynecologic surgery, the incidence of ureteral injuries is on the rise. We report 2 cases of post laparoscopic-assisted vaginal hysterectomy (post LAVH) ureterovaginal fistulas, which were managed successfully with retrograde stenting using ureteroscopy. Three middle-aged women who underwent LAVH for symptomatic myomas of the uterus presented with ureterovaginal fistulas in the late postoperative period. Excretory urography revealed ureterovaginal fistulas involving the distal ureter. Retrograde stenting was possible in 2 patients, using a 7.5F rigid ureteroscope. Both patients became continent 2 days after surgery. Urography at 6 weeks revealed normal renal function without obstruction or extravasation of urine, and the stents were removed. Stenting failed in the third patient; the patient underwent a ureteric reimplantation successfully. Post LAVH ureterovaginal fistulas are amenable to ureteroscopic retrograde double-J stenting, which enables spontaneous recovery of the injured ureter. An attempt of ureteroscopic stenting should be considered in all patients with post LAVH ureterovaginal fistulas before subjecting them to other modalities.
Laparoscopic ureteral injury and repair: case reviews and clinical update.	Ureteral injuries are known complications of pelvic surgery. The incidence is 0.5% to 3%, and approximately one-third of these cases are not identified or corrected intraoperatively. It is critical to recognize and repair these injuries intraoperatively to decrease morbidity and prevent further complications, such as ureteral stricture, fistula formation, or loss of renal function. Traditionally, laparotomy has been the method of choice for ureteral injuries even when the injury is identified during a laparoscopic procedure. Laparoscopy has been shown to result in decreased infection rate, fewer incisional hernias, shorter hospital stay, and quicker recovery compared with laparotomy. Several articles were reviewed of successful laparoscopic ureteral injury repair, in addition to the 2 cases presented in this article. We conclude that laparoscopic ureteral injury repair is feasible, safe, and effective.
Penetrating ureteral trauma.	The purpose of this series is to report our experience in managing ureteral trauma, focusing on the importance of early diagnosis, correct treatment, and the impact of associated injuries on the management and morbid-mortality.
Intraoperative management of ureteral injury during operative laparoscopy.	Injury to the ureter from operative laparoscopy is rare. The diagnosis is usually made radiologically, in the postoperative period, when the patient presents with symptoms and signs suggestive of ureteral injury. We report herein a case of ureteral injury resulting from operative laparoscopy for endometriosis. The injury was diagnosed and treated via laparoscopy during the same procedure. The increased utilization of operative laparoscopy to perform more complex procedures increases the potential for operative injury to the ureter. Prior visualization or retroperitoneal dissection of the ureter, in appropriate cases, will help reduce this complication and/or permit a prompt diagnosis in the event of such injury.
Right ureteral injury after radiofrequency ablation for atrial fibrillation.	Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation is a common procedure to treat atrial fibrillation. We describe a patient without a urologic history who had immediate abdominal pain after this treatment. Computed tomography scan and cystoscopy/retrograde pyelography confirmed a right proximal ureteral injury with urinary extravasation. The patient was treated with right ureteral stent placement and urethral catheter drainage. This case appears to be the first report of percutaneous radiofrequency ablation complicated by spontaneous ureteral injury related to blunt injury during manipulation of the transseptal sheaths or intracardiac catheters.
Bilateral ureteropelvic junction disruption in a 5-year-old boy.	Ureteral injuries represent less than 1% of all traumatic genitourinary injuries. The rarity of traumatic ureteral injury is at least in part because the ureters are relatively well protected in the retroperitoneum. Ureteral injuries after blunt trauma are not common, and bilateral disruption of the ureteropelvic junction (UPJ) has only been previously reported in just one child. This is the first documented case of operative ureteral repair of bilateral complete UPJ disruption with double J ureteral stents in a child.
Extrusion of calculi from upper urinary tract into perinephric and periureteric tissues during endourologic stone surgery.	We report on 11 patients in whom fragments of calculi were extruded into the perinephric or periureteric tissues at the time of endourologic stone surgery. All patients have been managed conservatively. In 2 patients ureteric strictures developed, but these were probably secondary to an electrical injury as a result of electrohydraulic lithopaxy. The remaining 9 patients have not experienced serious sequelae as a result of the calculus extrusion.
Ureteric reconstruction with reconfigured ileal segments according to Yang-Monti. A 4-year prospective report]	We report on 4 years experience with ileal ureteric replacement using the Yang-Monti procedure.
Intentional and unintentional ureteral surgical treatment in gynecologic procedures.	During a period of slightly over nine years, 4,195 extensive gynecologic procedures were performed and 40 patients required ureteral operations, with the ureteral injury unintentional in 16 patients. Extensive complications occurred in seven of 40 patients; in two of three patients in whom the injury was recognized postoperatively, nephrectomy was required. Roentgenographic imaging of the genitourinary tract prior to operation did not prevent injury nor did attempts at identification of the ureter. The majority of ureteral repairs were accomplished by ureteroneocystotomy. In selected patients, placement of percutaneous or indwelling ureteral stent prevented extensive surgical intervention.
Urinary tract trauma: anatomo-lesional, etiological and clinical considerations]	Urinary tract injuries are rare lesions and account for about 3%, of all injuries and 10% of abdominal trauma injuries. The aim of this study is to review retrospectively a series of patients with urinary tract injuries treated in a general surgery clinic.
Gunshot injuries of the ureters--retrospective study of 12 patients over 27 years period]	To retrospectively study the gunshot injuries of the ureters, operated in the surgical departments of Military Medical Academy, Sofia and Medical Institute Ministry of Interior, Sofia for a period of 27 years.
Revisiting the predictive factors for intra-operative complications of rigid ureteroscopy: a 15-year experience.	To revise the predictive factors for intra-operative complications of rigid ureteroscopy in the treatment of ureteral calculi.
Comparison of a biodegradable ureteral stent versus the traditional double-J stent for the treatment of ureteral injury: an experimental study.	Ureteral injury remains a major clinical problem; here we developed a biodegradable ureteral stent and compared its effectiveness with a double-J stent for treating ureteral injury. Eighteen dogs with injured ureters were subdivided into two groups. In group A, one injured ureter was treated with a biodegradable stent, whereas only end-to-end anastomosis was performed on the other side. In group B, one injured ureter was treated with a biodegradable stent, while a double-J stent was used on the other side. Intravenous urography, radioactive renography, histological examinations, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and elemental composition analysis were performed at 40, 80 and 120 days postoperatively. Results showed that the biodegradable stent could effectively prevent hydronephrosis and hydroureter secondary to ureteral injury. Moreover all biodegradable stents gradually degraded and discharged completely in 120 days. SEM and elemental composition analysis of the surface of the double-J stent confirmed calcification at 80 days and calcific plaque at 120 days, while no signs of calcification were found in the biodegradable stent group. Histological studies found no difference between the biodegradable stented ureters and double-J stented ureters. It is concluded that the biodegradable ureteral stent was more advantageous than the double-J stent for treating ureteral injury in a canine model.
Iatrogenic ureteric injury : a real medicolegal dilemma.	Iatrogenic ureteral injuries are not so rare and may have serious medicolegal repercussions.
Damage control maneuvers for urologic trauma.	This article discusses the evaluation and management of genitourinary system trauma in the critically injured patient. Injuries to any of the organs in the genitourinary system can be managed with a damage control strategy. Often, there is little or no preoperative imaging or injury staging, and these injuries are diagnosed intraoperatively. Finally, specific management strategies of renal, ureteral, bladder, urethral, and genital injuries are discussed. 
Laparoscopic ureteral replacement by Boari flap: multi-institutional experience in 30 cases.	The Boari flap is an excellent technique for replacement of distal ureteral injuries. There are few reports with the use of laparoscopic surgery, especially with long term results. Our goal is to present the results of a multi-institutional study of 30 cases.
Repair of right ureteral stenosis by traumatic injury with appendiceal interposition: a case report]	We report a repair of a right ureteral stenosis with the appendix as a ureteral substitute. A 20-year-old male suffered a traumatic injury in a motorcycle accident. He underwent an emergency operation for right hemothorax, intraabdominal hemorrhage, and bone fracture of right leg. Three weeks later, right hydronephrosis and urinoma were identified. Combined retrograde and antegrade pyelography demonstrated a severe 7 cm long stenosis in the right upper ureter. After an indwelling right nephrostomy catheter was placed, he returned to the hospital for a ureteral reconstruction. We planned to substitute the appendix to bridge the stenotic ureter. After transecting the appendix from the cecum, the mesoappendix was spatulated from mesoileum. Ureteral tissue was resected and appendix was interposed. Three weeks later, ureteral stent was removed. DTPA diuretic renogram scintigraphy demonstrated no evidence of obstruction five weeks later. Two years postoperatively, the patient was asymptomatic and his renal function was normal. Although only few cases of ureteral repair with appendix are known, uretero-appandix replacement is less invasive and complicated, and recommended in some cases.
Ureteral replacement and onlay repair with reconfigured intestinal segments.	Ureteral loss represents a surgical challenge to provide low pressure drainage while avoiding urinary stasis and reflux. The ideal replacement should optimize drainage while minimizing absorption, allowing for ureteral repair of varied lengths and locations with maximal preservation of the urinary tract. We reviewed our experience with ureteral repair, focusing on the use of reconfigured intestine. We report what is to our knowledge the novel use of reconfigured intestine as an onlay flap on the preserved ureteral segment and as a circumferential interpositioned segment.
Reconstructing full-length ureteral defects using a spiral bladder muscle flap with vascular pedicles.	This study investigates the efficacy of ureteral reconstruction using a spiral bladder muscle flap with vascular pedicles (ie, the superior vesical arteries) to repair full-length ureteral defects and explores a surgical approach for repairing long ureteral defects (>20 cm) using a bladder muscle flap.
Endourologic management of ureteroscopic complications.	Ureteroscopic injuries can be treated with endourologic techniques avoiding the morbidity of open operation. We report two cases of ureteral injury following ureteroscopy: one with extravasation, and the other, diagnosed one month postoperatively, with fistula and retroperitoneal urinoma. Both cases were successfully treated by percutaneous approaches. Possible etiology, preventive measures, and treatments are discussed.
Delayed intraperitoneal ureteric rupture following blunt abdominal trauma: case report.	Ureteric injury is uncommon and mostly follows penetrating trauma or surgical injury. Ureteric rupture following blunt abdominal trauma is rare, there being only a few reported cases. The case described here, in which blunt abdominal trauma resulted in delayed intraperitoneal rupture, appears to be the first report of this type of injury in blunt trauma.
Intraoperative ureteral trauma: a radiologic approach.	Thirty-two patients with inadvertent intraoperative ureteral trauma or ligation are presented. One-third of the injuries were due to general surgical procedures such as lumbar sympathectomy, aortoiliac bypass and colectomy. Because of postoperative pain, discomfort and sedation, these injuries are frequently unrecognized for long periods. This delay in diagnosis results in significant morbidity and mortality. The usual radiologic approach is an excretory urogram supplemented if necessary by a retrograde pyelogram. Temporary percutaneous or operative nephropyelostomies have been employed in seven of these patients.
Early detection of ureteral injuries associated with hysterectomy. A prospective echographic study]	Among ureteral injuries that occur during hysterectomy some are neglected and remain asymptomatic. They occur even, although not particularly, during so-called easy operations. Their severity and their need for early treatment point to the use of effective screening. It is not possible to carry out intravenous urography routinely. Searching, however, for pyelo-calyceal dilatation by ultrasound of the kidneys can show ureterohydronephrosis and can detect ureteral trauma. The authors carried out such ultrasound controls in 150 consecutive patients the day before, and the fourth and ninth days after hysterectomy. On the fourth day pyelo-calyceal dilatation is seen more frequently but is not large. Large dilatation appearing on the fourth postoperative day may be considered an early and reliable sign of suspect injury. The authors suggest that renal ultrasound should be carried out routinely on the day before and the fourth day after hysterectomy. The authors feel that when dilatation of the pyelo-calyceal area increases by 12 mm or more between the two examinations major ureteral injury must be suspected and urography carried out intravenously.
Injuries of ureteral lower segment and the bladder during surgery.	The injuries of the lower ureteral segment and the bladder are relatively frequent during gynaecological and surgical interventions in the small pelvis. The cases of 25 ureteral injuries observed in the period between 1976 and 1985 are now evaluated. The majority of them are complications arising due to gynaecological operations. Attention is drawn to the rise in the number of ureteral lesions connected with the progress of colic and vascular surgery. The aim of reconstructive surgical solutions is to restitute function and to attempt to find the organ-saving possibilities. Bladder injuries occur most often during transurethral operations (TUR). The nature of artifactual injuries associated with TUR and the ways they are inflicted were analysed on the basis of a study of about 1000 cases.
Complications of ureteroscopy.	Ureteroscopy with the rigid instrument is now an integral part of the endourologic armamentarium for the management of patients with ureteral calculi. Our experience demonstrates that ureteroscopy can be a safe, efficacious, and less invasive modality. Morbidity will be lowered with proper patient selection, meticulous attention to technique, and use of the proper equipment. Prevention is the best way to avoid serious complications of ureteroscopy. The following guidelines are recommended: Ureteroscopy should be used primarily for patients with distal ureteral calculi. A guidewire should be in place at all times during ureteroscopy. Fragmentation devices should be available. No forceful manipulations should be undertaken during either introduction of the instrument or manipulation of the calculus. When access or manipulation is difficult, a stent should be placed in the ureter for ureteroscopy at a later date. When perforation occurs, a stent should be placed in the ureter and the injured dry unstented ureter complex avoided. Alternative endourologic modalities should be used when appropriate. When practicing urologists are aware of the indications, potentials, and limitations, ureteroscopy and other endourologic methods will permit safe successful treatment of most patients with ureteral calculi.
Microsurgical end-to-end anastomosis in ureteral injuries.	The application of microsurgery to repair the injured ureter using a double-layer end-to-end anastomosis is described and 2 cases are reported. The results in both cases are excellent.
Urinary lactic dehydrogenase as a marker of renal injury in blunt trauma patients with hematuria.	We evaluated the use of urinary lactic dehydrogenase (LDH) in predicting renal injury in a convenience sample of 36 blunt trauma patients with hematuria. The mean +/- SEM urinary LDH for the five patients with renal injuries was 129.4 +/- 35 U/L, which was not significantly different from the mean urinary LDH levels in either the 22 patients without demonstrable genitourinary or retroperitoneal injuries (92.9 +/- 20.7 U/L) or the nine patients with nonrenal genitourinary or retroperitoneal injuries (165 +/- 46 U/L). Urinary LDH at a threshold of 135 U/L was more specific (75% vs 53%, P less than .01) and more accurate (74% vs 57%, P less than .01) than hematuria at a threshold of 50 red blood cells per high-power field in predicting lacerations of the kidney or ureter; urinary LDH was less sensitive than hematuria at these thresholds (67% vs 100%), but not significantly. We conclude that urinary LDH is a nonspecific marker of cellular disruption anywhere along the genitourinary tract in otherwise healthy blunt trauma patients.
A study of 114 cases of urinary tract injury]	In 11 years between January, 1974 and December, 1984 114 patients (92 males and 22 females) were admitted to our departments for urologic injuries. As there were four patients with multiple injuries (both kidneys 1, kidney and ureter 1, kidney and urethra 1, and bladder and urethra 1), the number of cases with kidney, ureter, bladder and urethral injuries were 76 (64%), 33 (28%), 6 (5%) and 3 (3%), respectively. The most frequent incidence was in the second decade. Out of the 75 cases of renal injuries there were 42 cases (56%) of contusions, 21 (28%) of lacerations, 7 (9.3%) of ruptures and 5 (6.7%) of pedicle injuries. Only 14 cases (18.7%) were treated surgically, namely six by nephrectomy and eight by a conservative approach (suture 1, drainage 3, partial nephrectomy 3 and pyeloplasty 1). Of the 3 cases of ureteral injuries all cases were treated surgically. Of the 6 cases of bladder injuries four cases were treated surgically. Of the 33 cases of urethral injuries 10 cases were complicated by fractures of the pelvis. Twenty three cases (74%) were treated surgically.
Management of ureteroscopic injuries.	Ureteroscopy is an important technique in the management of calculous disease and ureteral lesions but it appears to have a greater potential for injury than percutaneous nephroscopy. In 2 years 4 patients with severe ureteroscopic injuries were treated. In 3 patients complete obstruction of the ureter occurred, and 1 had a major ureteral tear, prolonged urinary extravasation and infection. Even in the presence of total ureteral occlusion patients with short strictures were managed successfully percutaneously but the 2 patients with longer strictures were not. Previous surgery on the ureter or pelvic surgery and radiation therapy appear to be negative factors that affect adversely the ureteral blood supply, and potentiate poor healing and scarring. Nephrostomy tube drainage and ureteral stenting after ureteral dilation appear to be important steps in the percutaneous management of these patients.
Antegrade ureteral stents: technical and catheter-related problems with polyethylene and polyurethane.	Antegrade placement of polyethylene and polyurethane stents was successfully achieved in 93 of 107 ureters (87 of 101 patients). These materials functioned adequately in 24 of 26 patients with indications for temporary stenting, including fistulas, strictures, and trauma caused by manipulation of calculi. Thirty of 61 patients with malignancy (49.2%) died within 6 months with their original stents in place; 12 survived to undergo elective cystoscopic stent replacement. Fifteen of the 61 patients had premature stent occlusions, which were treated by permanent nephrostomy in nine, replacement of the stent in five, and no further diversion in one patient with lymphoma. Encrustation and stent occlusion are problems during extended use of polyethylene and polyurethane stents. Long-term patency rates with newer stent materials remain to be documented and compared.
Retrograde dissection of the adnexa in residual ovary syndrome.	Injuries to the ureter in the course of gynecologic procedures can occur frequently. The usual histologic signs and symptoms of peri-oophoritis, adhesion and distorted anatomy encountered with residual ovaries make their ablation hazardous to the surrounding structures and the ureter in particular. A method is described and illustrated to facilitate surgical extirpation and render the procedure safe.
Endourologic approach of ureteral gunshot lesion.	We report a case which demonstrates that to approach an ureteral gunshot lesion endourologically may be an alternative to surgical intervention. We believe that drainage of a damaged ureter should, in selected cases, constitute the first option. This procedure often is successful, but may not be feasible in all cases. We do not believe that simple catheter drainage should replace standard surgical procedures. However, it presents a less invasive treatment alternative which still adheres to conventional surgical principles if a proper patient selection is made.
Iatrogenic ureteral injury: aggressive or conservative treatment.	Many different approaches are advocated for management of iatrogenic (operative) ureteric injury. We herein report our experience with 28 ureteral injuries in 26 patients. In six patients, seven injuries were recognized at the time of the initial operation; four end-to-end anastomoses and three ureteroneocystostomies were successfully performed. In 20 patients the diagnosis of injury was delayed. In 14 of them a ureteroneocystostomy with or without Boari bladder flap was performed. The other six patients were first treated by percutaneous nephrostomy, which was successful in only two cases. The other four needed subsequent operative management. The main point that has emerged from our review is that early definitive operative repair is both feasible and preferable.
An extended view of renal autotransplantation in humans.	Early cases of renal autotransplantation have resulted in 2 postoperative deaths in high risk patients, 1 nephrectomy with cure of high blood pressure, 1 cure of hypertension, 3 greatly reduced hypertensions and 2 highly successful bridgings for ureteral avulsions. Anticipated improvements in selection, especially for patients with hypertension, may widen applications in institutions in which homotransplantation is familiar.
Ureteral trauma: effects of ureteral ligation with and without deligation--experimental studies and case reports.	Inadvertent ureteral ligation is a well recognized risk during abdominal, retroperitoneal and pelvic operations. The feasibility and the safety of ureteral ligation treated with deligation have been documented. Herein is presented an over-all evaluation of the experience with ureteral ligation treated by deligation in 32 dogs and 4 women.
The role of ureteral stenting in the management of surgical injury of the ureter.	From 1965 through 1976, 35 patients with surgical injury of the ureter were treated by operations requiring ureteral anastomoses. Stenting devices were used in 31 patients with only 2 failures. Stents were omitted in 4 patients with 2 failures. We have been satisfied with and prefer stenting ureteral anastomoses in the management of surgical ureteral injury, particularly when there is delayed recognition of the injury or previous irradiation. Previous objections to stenting are unjustified.
Urinary tract complications with rectal surgery.	The possibility of urinary tract injury should always be considered in the course of anterior resection or combined abdominoperineal resection of the lower colon and rectum. Controlled studies of ureteral and other injuries and fistulas cannot be made; but fortunately, unanticipated damage to the lower urinary tract does not occur often. The surgeon operating in the pelvis should be aware of the problems rarely encountered and should be capable of their management. If a urologic surgeon is available, consultation often is desirable. Prompt intraoperative recognition is most important so remedial procedures can be carried out immediately. Delay in recognition and treatment jeopardizes the patient's course and the function of the urinary tract. Postoperative urinary tract infections should be diagnosed early so prompt treatment can be instituted.
Surgery or radiotherapy for cervical carcinoma stage IIb]	134 cases of cervical cancer of the clinical stage IIb were examined with regard to the five-year survival rate. The report covers the time from 1964 to 1976. The patients had either been operated on primarily or had primarily undergone irradiation treatment. The five-year survival rates for the first group amount to 57.69% (n = 78), for the second group to 42.86% (n = 56). This difference is not significant under the restriction of limited comparability because of the different age of the patients. 65.38% (abs.: 51 from 78) of the operated cases turned out to be clinically overestimated cases of cervical cancer of the histological stages Ib, Ic and IIa. 27 cases belonged to the clinical and histological stage IIb and for this group of patients the five-year survival rate was 29.62% only. This and a number of other factors--the narrowing of the site of the operation with the growing danger for the ureter, increasingly affected lymphatic nodes--would justify restraint concerning surgical treatment of stage IIb.
Use of ureteral catheters in colonic and rectal surgery.	Injury to the ureters is a serious complication of colonic and rectal surgery. The experience of the authors with routine use of ureteral catheters to minimize this complication is reviewed. It was found that there are minimal complications associated with their use. Injuries to the ureters were not completely avoided. However, unrecognized injuries (except ischemia) did not occur.
Injuries of the ureter caused by gynecologic surgery. Experience in the treatment of 42 cases]	These operations, in which the risk is essentially ureteral, must be carried out in a urological rather than gynaecological way; the said ureter must be sought after a permanent, ureteral probe has been placed before the operation. We feel that a vaginography is more useful than a retrograde pyelography for diagnosing ureterovaginal fistulae. Another important indication is the need for an intravenous urography to be systematically carried out in the postoperative period of all pelvis operations. Only I.V.U. enables the discovery in time of ureteral lesions which would otherwise remain undiscovered too long. We feel that nephrostomy is an emergency therapy in cases of anuria and septic shock with a urinary focus. It is a safety measure for preventing kidney deterioration in ureter lesions which have remained undiscovered for a long time. In pelvic ureter lesions and providing that there is no vesical retraction, we perform a vesical psoization along with the ureterocystoneostomy (1). When the ureteral lesion is bilateral and the elasticity of the bladder enables us to do so, we perform a ureterocystoneostomy with vesical bipartition and psoization of both vesical wings. In cases of extensive, bilateral ureteral lesions associated with vesical damage such as: vesico-vaginal fistulae and retracted bladder, we perform a ureteroileocystoplasty and vesical stretching.
Conservative treatment of ureteral lesions caused by gynecological surgery (author's transl)]	Conservative treatment with long lasting success is possible in many cases of ureteral lesions of different etiology, esp. after complications with gynecological surgery. Both fistulas and stenoses of the ureter can be treated conservatively by placing long term indwelling PVC ureteral splints ("endoprothesis") of FR 8 or 10 with smooth surface and without hooks or the like to keep them place. In a considerable number of cases such treatment is a true and even superior alternative to open surgery with its consecutive longer lasting hospitalization, because it can be done as outpatient-care and, of course, has a lower rate of complications.
Ureteral avulsion from non-penetrating trauma.	We report 6 instances of complete ureteral avulsion in 5 patients undergoing acute acceleration/deceleration trauma. One patient also had an unsalvageable contralateral renal arterial intimal injury. In all instances the ureteral avulsion injury was repaired successfully and in 4 patients only 1 surgical procedure was used. The injury, occurring primarily in children, seems to result from a sudden hyperextension of the trunk and the ureteropelvic junction appears to be the most susceptible to disruption injury. From our experience and from that of others, despite the occult nature of this injury and its tendency to be obscured further by associated injuries of greater immediate importance, persistence in diagnostic pursuit and surgical repair even when delayed will yield a satisfactory result.
Bilateral ureteropelvic junction avulsion after blunt abdominal trauma.	Ureteral pelvic junction avulsion can occur after deceleration injury. A case of this type of injury is presented herein, as well as a review of the literature.
Urologic complications after radical operations (author's transl)]	In the last ten years 795 radical operations have been performed at the University Hospital Department of Gynecology in Ljubljana: 542 after Wertheim and 253 after Schauta. In operations after Wertheim there were 8 ureterovaginal fistulas (1.4%) and 1 vesico-vaginal fistula. In operations after Schauta no urinary fistulas developed. In operations after Wertheim there were 3 lesions of the urether after surgery and in those after Schauta only one. Hydronephrosis after Wertheim: 20 open, (25%) and 10 closed (15%). Urinary retention proved considerably lower in women on postoperative balneotherapy in Dobrna.
Laparoscopic hysterectomy with vaginal extraction]	In the paper authors present 30 laparoscopic hysterectomy made during 5 month (november 1992 till march 1993). Indications to laparoscopic hysterectomy were: myomata uteri, recurrent metrorrhagia and CIN III. The middle duration time of operation was 153 min. and the middle blood loss during operation was 122 ml. 28 patients during first control after operation felt well. In 1 patient intraoperative injury of urine bladder was noted and in next injury of left ureter.
Traumas of the ureter. Apropos of 29 cases]	The origin of ureteral trauma is often iatrogenic, particularly after gynaecologic surgery, and causes diagnostic and therapeutic problems. The characteristics of this affection are reviewed in a retrospective study of 29 traumatic lesions of the ureter collected over a 17 year period. Three ureteral trauma were by penetrating injury and twenty six were iatrogenic. For the latter, hysterectomy was the principal cause (17 cases). Urine leakage through the vagina was the most frequent clinical symptom (20 cases). In the majority of cases, intravenous urography was sufficient to make the diagnosis. Uretero-hydronephrosis was noticed in 17 cases, and extravasation in 14 cases. The majority of iatrogenic lesions (20 cases) was diagnosed after a one month delay. Lower third of the ureter was the most frequent site of injury in iatrogenic traumas (10 cases), whereas the upper third was the site of predilection of penetrating traumas (3 cases). Four vesico-vaginal fistulaes and two resto-vaginal fistulaes were associated to ureteral iatrogenic lesions. Various therapeutic methods were used. For mid and lower ureteral lesions, psoas-bladder hitch was the most frequent procedure (11 cases). On the other hand, for upper ureteral lesions, ureteral anastomosis was done in three cases. Only one nephrectomy was done, after an iatrogenic lesion diagnosed very late, with a non functioning kidney. We noticed six surgical failures: four after termino-terminal anastomosis, and two after Boari-Küss's procedure. The data of literature concerning etiopathogeny, diagnosis, therapeutic modalities and prevention of traumatic lesions of the ureter and reviewed.
An initial experience with lighted ureteral catheters during laparoscopic colectomy.	Ureteral catheters are recommended when a difficult pelvic dissection is anticipated to minimize the risk of ureteral injuries. With the introduction of laparoscopic-assisted colectomy, it has become necessary to replace tactile with visual feedback. Lighted ureteral catheters (LUC) have been advocated for major laparoscopic pelvic surgery as a means of enhancing ureteral identification. However, the use of LUC has been anecdotal to this point. We present the first series of selectively used LUC during laparoscopic-assisted colectomy. Forty-nine consecutive laparoscopic-assisted colectomies were reviewed in which patients had LUC placed or not (NC) [LUC,24(49%); NC, 25(51%)]. Indications for catheter insertion included complicated diverticular disease, previous pelvic surgery, and obesity. The need for LUC was at the discretion of the surgeon. Data collected included catheter visualization, type of procedure, operative time, operating room cost, and catheter or ureteral complications. Catheters were visualized in 5 of 6 (83%) right colectomies and 15 of 18 (83%) left colectomies. Nonvisualization was because of migration to the bladder (2 cases) and dense inflammatory reaction (2 cases). No catheter complications or ureteral injuries occurred in either group. Operative time (LUC, 192 +/- 11.3 min, NC, 161.4 +/- 9.5 min) was significantly longer in the LUC group as a result of the time for catheter insertion and the greater complexity of the case. The operating room cost was similar in the two groups (LUC, $3488.63 +/- 259.01; NC, $3537.56 +/- 313.43). The results indicate that selected use of LUC does significantly increase operating time without significantly increasing operating room cost or operative morbidity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Rare forms of ureteral fistulae occurring after obstetrical and gynecological operations]	In missed intraoperative injury to the ureter one can regularly observe retroperitoneal urinary overflow (urinary retroperitonitis). In case of postoperative ignorance of the injury the overflown urine penetrates into the vagina with formation of the ureterovaginal fistula. Less frequent there are ureterocutaneous or ureteroperitoneal, ureterointestinal fistulas after the urine breaking into the operative wound, abdominal cavity or the intestine, respectively. A case of a 37-year-old woman is reported with accidental injury to the left ureter overlooked during and after the operation. The patient developed successive ureteroperitoneal, ureterocutaneous and ureterosigmoid fistulas for which she has undergone 4 operations. After the recovery the function of the left kidney was retained.
Ureteric rupture in an elderly patient following minor trauma: case report.	A 75-year-old woman arrived at our hospital 2 weeks after falling from a bus. She was shown to have a ruptured left ureter. After drainage of a urine collection and decompression of her obstructed kidney she recovered. To our knowledge ureteric rupture has not before been reported as a consequence of such minor trauma.
Catheter modification for transrenal temporary total ureteral obstruction: the "occlusive" nephroureteral catheter.	When temporary diversion of urine is desired and a simple nephrostomy catheter is insufficient or passage of a ureteral stent cannot be achieved, a standard 8 or 10 F nephroureteral catheter can be modified to provide a single nephrostomy drainage catheter with an occluded ureteral segment that provides total diversion of urine. The "occlusive" nephroureteral catheter is exchangeable over a guide wire as necessary. When healing of the ureteral or bladder process has occurred, the catheter is removable, allowing restoration of normal urine flow.
Prophylactic ureteral catheterization in colon surgery. A five-year review.	The preoperative placement of prophylactic ureteral catheters in operations of the distal colon is both commonplace and controversial. We assessed the frequency, safety, and effectiveness of their use over a five and one-half-year period in a teaching hospital.
Laparoscopic ultrasound-guided drainage of lymphoceles following renal transplantation.	The development of a lymphocele is an uncommon but well-documented complication of renal transplantation. In most patients, lymphoceles remain asymptomatic, and no intervention is required. In some cases, however, lymphoceles become symptomatic and cause systemic and local manifestations. Ultrasonic scanning can easily diagnose and locate the size and position of perirenal fluid collections. Many of these patients can be managed conservatively by aspiration and drainage of the lymphocele under radiologic guidance. However, if the lymphocele remains symptomatic or reaccumulates after aspiration and drainage, surgical intervention may be required. We describe two different ultrasound-guided laparoscopic techniques for drainage of a perirenal lymphocele into the peritoneal cavity. Successful drainage was accomplished in 5 patients, with 1 patient suffering an injury to the ureter of the transplant kidney. Recommendations regarding patient selection and operative technique are presented.
Evaluation and treatment of iatrogenic ureteral injuries during obstetric and gynecologic operations for nonmalignant conditions.	Twenty-one iatrogenic ureteral injuries (20 patients) as a result of obstetric and gynecologic operations are presented. All injuries occurred during operations for benign conditions, such as Cesarean section and transabdominal hysterectomy. Pelvic adhesions as a result of repeat Cesarean section, markedly enlarging the uterus at the time of abdominal hysterectomy, and massive hemorrhage during surgical treatment were the main causes of ureteral injury. Nine ureters were transected (eight patients) and 12 ureters had postoperative obstruction. Fistulas occurred between the affected ureter and the vagina (five patients), uterus (one patient) and skin (one patient). The existence and the site of such a fistula is clearly demonstrated roentgenographically using intravenous urograms while a urethral catheter filled with contrast media is inserted into the bladder. Only a few ureteric injuries (two patients) were diagnosed and managed during the initial gynecologic operation. The remainder underwent delayed repair procedures. In most patients, the upper urinary tract was protected by percutaneous nephrostomy. The preferred operation for definitive correction was ureteroneocystostomy using the psoas hitch procedure. Direct localization by difficult dissection of the injured ureteral site was unnecessary with ureteroneocystostomy because this procedure bypasses the site of the injury to the ureter. This procedure can be applied in most injuries to the ureter, distal or proximal, which occur during gynecologic and obstetric operations. Renal salvage was achieved in all instances, with no operative or postoperative complications.
A rare complication of obstetric pathology: uretero-uterine fistula]	Accidental iatrogenic injuries of ureters and bladder in patients with abdominal and pelvic pathology are described as a possible lesion of a surgical or gynaecologic treatment. The ureteral lesion is less frequent in obstetric surgery, but the young age of the patients and the gravity of the consequences, impose a very serious problem for a early diagnosis with a conservative surgical treatment. On the contrary, this important injury, bears an important surgical management with possible functional damage of the reno-urinary tract. The Authors report the experience about the observation and treatment of a case of a young woman, 29 years old, who had a uretero-uterine fistula, after a cesarean section for the first pregnancy.
A technic for the prevention of terminal (juxta-vesical) ureteral lesions during radical lymphadeno-colpo-hysterectomy for uterine cancer]	In certain cases (i.e. selectively and not routinely) of radical lymphadeno-colpo-hysterectomy for uterine carcinoma, the authors section the uterosacral ligaments at the outset, which enables the uterus to be brought up and thus facilitates dissection, ligation and section of the supra-uterine vesico-uterine pedicles, avoiding damage to the terminal (juxta-vesical) ureter.
Interposition of ileum in the ureter.	An ileal loop was interposed to replace a long defect of the upper ureter with preservation of the lower ureteral continuity in three patients. Urinary drainage was satisfactory and at follow-up 2-4 years postoperatively renal function was improved.
Ureteral injury during laparoscopically assisted radical vaginal hysterectomy.	We report on a case of ureteral injury during laparoscopically radical hysterectomy to treat a patient with a stage IA2 carcinoma of the uterine cervix. The advantage of laparoscopically radical hysterectomy is the prevention of the identification and dissecting of the ureter from a vaginal approach, the main problem in the Schauta technique. However, ureteral injury may still occur while resecting the cardinal ligament without good visualization of the ureter during a vaginal procedure. Because the ureter was well identified and freed laparoscopically, a vaginal approach after uterine removal may be an option for treatment. Moreover, using the ureteral stent as a marker during a modified Schauta technique is helpful in the prevention of ureteral injury during laparoscopically assisted radical vaginal hysterectomy.
The 'problem' radical hysterectomy.	This is a study of 243 radical hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy procedures performed for gynecologic malignancy. The term 'problem' radical hysterectomy was applied to those patients with one of the following conditions: (1) recent cervical conization (within 21 days). (2) previous total or supravaginal hysterectomy, (3) pregnancy, or (4) previous pelvic radiation. There were 88 patients in theses categories. One hundred and fifty-five patients had none of these predisposing problems which might influence operative or postoperative complications. There were two deaths (0.82 per cent). There was no statistically significant difference in operative injuries to the bladder, ureters, or rectum or in the mean operative time and mean blood loss across the categories. However, there was a statistically significant difference across the categories in postoperative complicatons, both major and minor. The greatest incidence of such complications occurred in patients who had previous radiation therapy and the second greatest incidence was in patients who had recent cervical conization. Pregnant patients had the least number of complications.
Obstetric and gynaecological ureteric injuries: treatment and results.	To compare endourological techniques and open surgery in the treatment of ureteric injuries following obstetric and gynaecological surgery.
Lesions of the ureter in radical hysterectomy for cervical cancer]	Eight ureter lesions of the ureter occurred among 100 consecutive patients undergoing radical hysterectomy for cancer of the uterine cervix. The management of this problem is discussed, and treatment guidelines for the most commonly seen lesions are proposed. It is concluded that a more liberal use of ureteric stents or catheters should be considered so as to reduce the number of ureteric lesions occurring in connection with radical hysterectomy. Urological assistance should be sought for urological lesions recognized during or after such operations.
Healing responses of the lower urinary tract.	Healing of the urinary tract follows a series of events similar to other epithelial surfaces. This process, however, occurs more rapidly in the urinary tract. A variety of factors that can affect the healing response of the urinary tract are presented in this article. It is important for the veterinarian to be aware of these factors so that the appropriate surgical or medical treatment can be provided to the patient to optimize the healing processes.
Ureteral injuries due to external violence: 10 years' experience with 59 cases.	Fifty-nine cases of traumatic ureteral damage are presented. Gunshot wounds comprise the majority (52/59). Need for a high index of suspicion and aggressive diagnostic measures is stressed. The effects of missile velocity on the ureter are noted. Prompt operative management is advocated: choice of procedure depends on the location of the ureteral defect. Urinary complications occurred in 11/59 (19%). Four complications resulted from operative techniques no longer recommended. The death rate of 10% is related to the high incidence (57/59) of associated visceral and vascular injuries.
Avulsion of the ureter from both ends as a complication of interruption of pregnancy with vacuum aspirator.	A case of avulsion of a ureter from the pelvioureteral junction and its discharge through the vagina during an attempt to interrupt pregnancy by suction is presented. The preoperative and operative findings are described, as well as the mechanism that caused this kind of trauma. The proposed management of such a case is discussed.
Early treatment of ureteral injuries found after gynecological surgery.	Five consecutive patients with 7 ureteral injuries found after gynecological operations were treated conservatively. The complications ensuing this type of management are reported briefly. Twenty more consecutive patients with 27 ureteral injuries were treated immediately after diagnosis and definitively. Important points of technique are 1) little attempt to stay extraperitoneally, 2) sacrifice of all abnormal ureter, 3) re-establishment of ureteral continuity between a normal ureter and the bladder by usual means, 4) peritoneal closure only when easy, 5) adequate drainage and 6) use of antibiotics. The results obtained were excellent. Early and definitive treatment of ureteral injuries found after gynecological operations seems to be the safest and easiest type of management in all cases.
Urologic complications of gynecologic surgery and their treatment in our clinical data]	In 19 women (aged 27-66 years, mean 44.6 years) a retrospective analysis of the urological complications suffered during gynecological surgery was performed. 14 (73.6%) patients had ureteral injuries with concomitant bladder lesions in two. In the remaining 4 (21%) bladder injury only was present including a woman with a simultaneous urethral lesion. In the postoperative period 3 ureteric, 5 vesicovaginal, and one vesicouterine fistula developed. Intraoperative diagnosis followed by immediate surgical repair of the ureteric and bladder lesions was performed in 2 (10.5%) patients only. Except one case ureteral injury was unilateral, and predominantly right-sided (10:5). One patient suffered injury of one of the ureters in a complete ureteral duplication. The most frequent side of ureteral injury was at the level of the uterine artery with complete ligature of the ureter in 10 (71.4%), and partial in 4 (28.6%) patients. Percutaneous nephrostomy as a temporary diversion was performed in 8 (57.1%) patients. Definitive treatment involved simple Paquin ureteral reimplantation in 5 patients, Boari's procedure in 3, and psoas hitch technique once. Ureteral lysis only was sufficient in 3 patients. The surgical treatment including repair of vesical fistulas was in all cases successful.
Ex vivo comparison of four lithotripters commonly used in the ureter: what does it take to perforate?	We hoped to determine the number of pulses and energy needed to create acute ureteral perforations with four different lithotripters in a reproducible ex vivo model. A simple model was constructed to control variables in the testing such as wall thickness, intraluminal pressure, distance between the probe tip and ureter, and power delivered to tissue. Segments of domestic pig ureter were prepared and fixed in position in a normal saline (NS) bath at room temperature. We then attempted perforation with the holmium:YAG (HoL) laser, coumarin pulsed-dye laser (CdL), electrohydraulic lithotripter (EHL), and pneumatic impactor (PI) by placing the instrument probes at right angles to the ureteral wall. The ureter was filled with a methylene blue-stained solution of NS at 90 cm H2O pressure via a urodynamics catheter, and perforation was recorded on initial extravasation of dye. The endpoints measured were time to perforation and total energy required. At 0.5 mm of separation between the wall and probe, the HoL perforated the ureter in an average of 2 seconds and 0.01 kJ delivered at 5 W (10 Hz and 0.5 J/pulse). The EHL perforated at an average of 24.44 +/- 8.77 seconds and a total energy of 0.01 +/- 0 kJ. The CdL was able to perforate but at much longer intervals (257.51 +/- 99.08 seconds) and higher energy levels (12.88 +/- 4.95 kJ) on average than either the EHL or HoL. Lastly, the PI was unable to perforate the ureter in more than 6 continuous minutes of application. In addition, we found that at 2-mm separation between the HoL probe tip and the ureteral wall, acute perforation was not possible even at very high power settings. We conclude that although each endoscopic lithotripter has advantages as well as disadvantages, in this ex vivo model, it was clear that the HoL and EHL can easily perforate the ureter and must be used with vigilance. It was found that at 2 mm of separation between the probe and target, the HoL, was unable to perforate acutely. The CdL and PI were associated with a much higher safety index, and the PI was unable to produce ureteral perforation.
Ureteroscopic treatment of ureteric lithiasis. Analysis of 354 urs procedures in a community hospital.	The optimal treatment of ureteric lithiasis continues to be a point of discussion, as there are different treatment modalities. Conservative treatment, EWSL, ureteroscopy (URS), percutaneous litholapaxy, and (laparoscopic) ureterolithotomy, all have there place in the treatment of ureteric lithiasis. In order to evaluate if ureteroscopy is a valuable alternative to ESWL in the treatment of ureteric lithiasis, an analysis of all the ureteroscopies performed in our institution was made and these results were compared with results (both ESWL and URS) described in literature.
Uretero-arterial fistula: a case report and review of the literature.	We report the case of a uretero-arterial fistula (UAF) formation in a 68 years old male who had previously undergone an Aortobifemoral graft. He got complicated with occlusion and infection of the right lower extremity requiring a right hip disarticulation for its management. This was followed by groin infection and graft protusion, managed by transabdominal resection of the right graft limb, at which time the right ureter was lacerated and repaired. Several months later, he presented with gross hematuria found to be secondary to UAF. The diagnostic and management steps leading to this patient care will be reviewed, together with a review of the literature pertinent to this case report.
