Pelvio-ureteral tumor 5 years after uretero-cutaneostomy]	A 70-year-old woman visited our hospital with the chief complaint of intermittent gross hematuria from right ureterocutaneostoma. She had received total cystectomy and bilateral ureterocutaneostomy because of bladder tumor (transitional cell carcinoma, grade 3, stage T2) 5 years earlier. Urine cytology showed transitional cell carcinoma (TCC). The right retrograde pyelogram showed shadow defects of right pelvis and upper ureter, computed tomographic scan showed fatty density mass of right pelvis. Preoperative diagnosis was right pelvic and ureteral tumors. Right nephroureterectomy was performed on May 26, 1986. Histology revealed TCC, grade 3 on the pelvis and upper ureter. Cases of pelvio-ureteral tumors of ureterocutaneostomy were collected from the literature and reviewed.
Uroepithelial tumors of the upper urinary tract following bladder cancer]	Five hundred and nineteen patients with primary bladder cancer were treated between January, 1969 and December, 1984, 12 of whom had developed upper urothelial tumors. These patients had received various transurethral treatment for the primary bladder lesions, except for one patient who had undergone total cystectomy and ileal conduit diversion. Overall incidence of patients with upper urinary tract tumors following bladder cancer was 2.3%. The incidence of patients with treated bladder tumors (13.2%) for dye workers was higher than that for the general population (1.1%). The interval between initial treatment of the bladder tumor and diagnosis of the upper tract tumor ranged from 7 to 170 months (mean 70 months). The incidence of upper tract tumors increased with the passage of time. We conclude that the occurrence of upper urinary tract tumors following primary bladder cancers is promoted by nonspecific chemical irritants against the urothelium already made unstable by certain urinary chemical carcinogens.
Radiologic evaluation of the ureteral stump.	The ureter that is left in place after nephrectomy may occasionally give rise to symptoms that are often attributed to other causes. The disease may not be recognized until it is far advanced or is discovered during surgery for another illness. Fourteen diseased ureteral stumps that became symptomatic months to years after nephrectomy are described. Calculi were found in six ureters and neoplasms in five; ureteritis cystica developed in one, infection secondary to vesicoureteral reflux in one, and empyema proximal to an obstructed ectopic ureteral orifice in another. Although there are several methods of imaging the ureteral stump, the best method in the authors' view is retrograde ureterography through a 5-F ureteral catheter. The catheter is inserted during cystoscopy but the injection of contrast medium is done in a radiographic/fluoroscopic facility where carefully monitored fluoroscopic spot radiographs can be obtained.
Phanacetin abuse III. Malignant urinary tract tumors in phenacetin abuse in Basle 1963-1977]	In 442 inhabitants of Basel 451 malignant tumors of the lower urinary tract were found at autopsy or biopsy from 1963 to 1977. 69/442 patients were abusers of phenacetin containing analgesics. Carcinomas and sarcomas of the lower urinary tract were nearly 13 times as frequent in abusers as in non-abusers. Carcinomas of the renal pelvis were 77 times, carcinomas of the ureter 89 times and those of the urinary bladder 7 times as frequent among abusers. The differences in incidence of malignant tumors are statistically highly significant for all localizations and for multiple carcinomas as well, even if smokers are excluded. "Phenacetin tumors" occurred in younger patients and were more common in women than in non-abusers. They were ofen, though not always, accompanied by analgesic nephropathy. Comparison with other etiological factors such as aromatic amines or thorotrast demonstrated that phenacetin abuse is of greatest importance. The significance of smoking cannot be established unequivocally. Because of the occurrence of a large number of malignant tumors in phenacetin abusers it is very important to prohibit by legislation the use of phenacetin or paracetamol containing analgesics without medical prescription. In addition, these drugs should be replaced by other analgesic compounds.
Squamous cell carcinoma of the ureter as a late complication of ureterocutaneostomy--a case report]	A case of squamous cell carcinoma of the ureter was reported. A 62-year-old woman, who underwent left nephrectomy and right ureterocutaneostomy at the age of thirty-one because of tuberculosis of the urinary tract, visits our hospital periodically for an ureteral catheter change. An urgent nephrostomy was performed because of ureteral stricture on March 8, 1994. Three months later tenderness and induration appeared at the former ureteral stoma. The resected specimen was histologically diagnosed as squamous cell carcinoma. Right palliative ureterectomy did not produce the desired effects due to the invasion of the tumor into the surrounding organs. In this rare case, it is suggested that chronic infection and irritation of the indwelling catheter might be causative of squamous cell carcinoma of the ureter.
