Heterotrimerization of PII-like signalling proteins: implications for PII-mediated signal transduction systems.	PII-like signalling molecules are trimeric proteins composed of 12-13 kDa polypeptides encoded by the glnB gene family. Heterologous expression of a cyanobacterial glnB gene in Escherichia coli leads to an inactivation of E. coli's own PII signalling system. In the present work, we show that this effect is caused by the formation of functionally inactive heterotrimers between the cyanobacterial glnB gene product and the E. coli PII paralogues GlnB and GlnK. This led to the discovery that GlnK and GlnB of E. coli also form heterotrimers with each other. The influence of the oligomerization partner on the function of the single subunit was studied using heterotrimerization with the Synechococcus PII protein. Uridylylation of GlnB and GlnK was less efficient but still possible within these heterotrimers. In contrast, the ability of GlnB-UMP to stimulate the adenylyl-removing activity of GlnE (glutamine synthetase adenylyltransferase/removase) was almost completely abolished, confirming that rapid deadenylylation of glutamine synthetase upon nitrogen stepdown requires functional homotrimeric GlnB protein. Remarkably, however, rapid adenylylation of glutamine synthetase upon exposing nitrogen-starved cells to ammonium was shown to occur in the absence of a functional GlnB/GlnK signalling system as efficiently as in its presence.
Characterization of human UMP-CMP kinase enzymatic activity and 5' untranslated region.	We have cloned a cDNA for human UMP-CMP kinase from a macrophage cDNA library. Sequence analysis showed that this cDNA is derived from the same gene as a previously reported EST-derived cDNA. Here we show that a conspicuous difference between these two clones, 73 additional 5' nucleotides in the EST clone, including a putative translational start site, is not functionally significant. This work shows that the additional 5'sequence in the EST clone was unnecessary for enzymatic activity and nonfunctional in the initiation of translation. Specifically, we found that protein expressed by both the macrophage-derived cDNA and the extended cDNA had the same relative molecular mass, consistent with use of an ATG internal to the macrophage-derived clone as the functional start site. In addition, this work more precisely defines the catalytic activity of UMP-CMP kinase. Here, we show a 3-fold greater substrate preference for CMP relative to UMP, identify ATP and UTP as the preferred phosphate donors for the reaction, and demonstrate that the reaction is Mg2+-dependent. In addition, investigation of UMP-CMP-kinase expression revealed two mRNA products in immune tissues and cancer cell lines. The smaller RNA product was previously undescribed.
UMP kinase from Streptococcus pneumoniae: evidence for co-operative ATP binding and allosteric regulation.	UMP kinase catalyses the phosphorylation of UMP by ATP to yield UDP and ADP. In prokaryotes, the reaction is carried out by a hexameric enzyme, activated by GTP and inhibited by UTP. In the present study, Streptococcus pneumoniae UMP kinase was studied as a target for antibacterial research and its interest was confirmed by the demonstration of the essentiality of the gene for cell growth. In the presence of MnCl2 or MgCl2, the saturation kinetics of recombinant purified UMP kinase was hyperbolic for UMP (K(m)=0.1 mM) and sigmoidal for ATP (the substrate concentration at half-saturation S0.5=9.4+/-0.7 mM and n=1.9+/-0.1 in the presence of MgCl2). GTP increased the affinity for ATP and decreased the Hill coefficient (n). UTP decreased the affinity for ATP and only slightly increased the Hill coefficient. The kcat (175+/-13 s(-1) in the presence of MgCl2) was not affected by the addition of GTP or UTP, whose binding site was shown to be different from the active site. The hydrodynamic radius of the protein similarly decreased in the presence of ATP or GTP. There was a shift in the pH dependence of the activity when the ATP concentration was switched from low to high. These results support the hypothesis of an allosteric transition from a conformation with low affinity for ATP to a form with high affinity, which would be induced by the presence of ATP or GTP.
Factors required for the Uridylylation of the foot-and-mouth disease virus 3B1, 3B2, and 3B3 peptides by the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (3Dpol) in vitro.	The 5' terminus of picornavirus genomic RNA is covalently linked to the virus-encoded peptide 3B (VPg). Foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV) is unique in encoding and using 3 distinct forms of this peptide. These peptides each act as primers for RNA synthesis by the virus-encoded RNA polymerase 3D(pol). To act as the primer for positive-strand RNA synthesis, the 3B peptides have to be uridylylated to form VPgpU(pU). For certain picornaviruses, it has been shown that this reaction is achieved by the 3D(pol) in the presence of the 3CD precursor plus an internal RNA sequence termed a cis-acting replication element (cre). The FMDV cre has been identified previously to be within the 5' untranslated region, whereas all other picornavirus cre structures are within the viral coding region. The requirements for the in vitro uridylylation of each of the FMDV 3B peptides has now been determined, and the role of the FMDV cre (also known as the 3B-uridylylation site, or bus) in this reaction has been analyzed. The poly(A) tail does not act as a significant template for FMDV 3B uridylylation.
Allosteric effects of ligands and mutations on poliovirus RNA-dependent RNA polymerase.	Protein priming of viral RNA synthesis plays an essential role in the replication of picornavirus RNA. Both poliovirus and coxsackievirus encode a small polypeptide, VPg, which serves as a primer for addition of the first nucleotide during synthesis of both positive and negative strands. This study examined the effects on the VPg uridylylation reaction of the RNA template sequence, the origin of VPg (coxsackievirus or poliovirus), the origin of 3D polymerase (coxsackievirus or poliovirus), the presence and origin of interacting protein 3CD, and the introduction of mutations at specific regions in the poliovirus 3D polymerase. Substantial effects associated with VPg origin were traced to differences in VPg-polymerase interactions. The effects of 3CD proteins and mutations at polymerase-polymerase intermolecular Interface I were most consistent with allosteric effects on the catalytic 3D polymerase molecule. In conclusion, the efficiency and specificity of VPg uridylylation by picornavirus polymerases is greatly influenced by allosteric effects of ligand binding that are likely to be relevant during the viral replicative cycle.
Enhanced production of scleroglucan by Sclerotium rolfsii MTCC 2156 by use of metabolic precursors.	The aim of this work was to study the effect of addition of different amino acids and sugar nucleotides as metabolic precursors on the production of scleroglucan. A maximum yield of 20.00 g/l and 22.32 g/l was obtained with optimized media supplemented with L-lysine (1.1 mM) and uridine mono-phosphate (UMP), respectively as compared to 16.52 g/l scleroglucan achieved with the control in the absence of metabolic precursors.
Effects of metal ions, including Mg2+ and lanthanides, on the cleavage of ribonucleotides and RNA model compounds.	The cyclization/cleavage of 3',5'-uridyluridine to form 2',3'-cyclic uridylic acid is very effectively catalyzed by Eu3+, and the cyclization/cleavage of the 1-p-nitrophenyl phosphate ester of propane-1,2-diol also shows strong metal ion catalysis by Eu3+, Tb3+, and Yb3+. It also shows moderate catalysis by Mg2+, but not by Ca2+; Zn2+ and Pb2+ are also good catalysts. Various ligands activate these reactions further, and imidazole apparently acts as an additional base catalyst. Some cyclodextrin derivatives act to bind both the substrate and the metal ion but, contrary to what is reported elsewhere, there is no strong selectivity among nucleotides that can be ascribed to cyclodextrin binding.
RNA transcription and translation in the hearts of normal and cardiomyopathic Syrian hamsters.	The cardiomyopathic Syrian hamster has an autosomal recessive defect that results in the development of an early onset cardiac myopathy leading to cardiac dysfunction and, eventually, complete heart failure. To assess the regulatory mechanisms modulating gene expression in the normal and myopathic myocardium, we investigated both RNA transcription and translation. Our results indicated that the incorporation of [3H]UMP into myocardial cell nuclear RNA decreased 10-fold from 7 to 210 days of age in the normal Syrian hamster. The incorporation of [3H]UMP was approximately 50% lower in the cardiomyopathic as compared with the normal Syrian hamster. RNA translation, as assessed by rabbit reticulocyte lysate in vitro translation, indicated that a coordinated 50% decrease in RNA translation occurred in normal Syrian hamster from 7 to 210 days of age. A further reduction of 20% in translation was found in cardiomyopathic Syrian hamster ventricular RNA translation as compared with matched random bred control groups. Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel analysis of cell-free translated protein products demonstrated two myocardial peptides that were found to be consistently altered when the normal and cardiomyopathic Syrian hamsters were compared. These results indicate that transcription and translation decrease with age and that these processes are further downregulated, in an additive manner, with the genesis of the disease process.
In vitro studies of the uridylylation of the three PII protein paralogs from Rhodospirillum rubrum: the transferase activity of R. rubrum GlnD is regulated by alpha-ketoglutarate and divalent cations but not by glutamine.	P(II) proteins have been shown to be key players in the regulation of nitrogen fixation and ammonia assimilation in bacteria. The mode by which these proteins act as signals is by being in either a form modified by UMP or the unmodified form. The modification, as well as demodification, is catalyzed by a bifunctional enzyme encoded by the glnD gene. The regulation of this enzyme is thus of central importance. In Rhodospirillum rubrum, three P(II) paralogs have been identified. In this study, we have used purified GlnD and P(II) proteins from R. rubrum, and we show that for the uridylylation activity of R. rubrum GlnD, alpha-ketoglutarate is the main signal, whereas glutamine has no effect. This is in contrast to, e.g., the Escherichia coli system. Furthermore, we show that all three P(II) proteins are uridylylated, although the efficiency is dependent on the cation present. This difference may be of importance in understanding the effects of the P(II) proteins on the different target enzymes. Furthermore, we show that the deuridylylation reaction is greatly stimulated by glutamine and that Mn(2+) is required.
Efficient RNA polyuridylation by noncanonical poly(A) polymerases.	Nuclear poly(A) polymerase (PAP) polyadenylates nascent mRNAs, promoting their nuclear export, stability, and translation, while the related cytoplasmic polymerase GLD-2 activates translation of deadenylated mRNAs. Here we characterize the biochemical activity of fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe Cid1, a putative cytoplasmic PAP implicated in cell cycle checkpoint controls. Surprisingly, Cid1 has robust poly(U) polymerase activity in vitro, especially when isolated in native multiprotein complexes. Furthermore, we found that upon S-phase arrest, the 3' ends of actin mRNAs were posttranscriptionally uridylated in a Cid1-dependent manner. Finally, Hs2 (ZCCHC6), a human ortholog of Cid1, shows similar activity. These data suggest that uridylation of mRNA forms the basis of an evolutionarily conserved mechanism of gene regulation.
The Escherichia coli mraY gene encoding UDP-N-acetylmuramoyl-pentapeptide: undecaprenyl-phosphate phospho-N-acetylmuramoyl-pentapeptide transferase.	Amplification of the mraY gene, previously called open reading frame Y (ORF-Y, 1,080 bp), at 2 min in the chromosome map of Escherichia coli enhanced the activity of UDP-N-acetylmuramoyl-pentapeptide: undecaprenyl-phosphate phospho-N-acetylmuramoyl-pentapeptide transferase (EC 2.7.8.13). This enzyme catalyzes the formation of undecaprenyl-pyrophosphoryl-N-acetylmuramoyl-pentapeptide from UDP-N-acetylmuramoyl-pentapeptide and undecaprenyl-phosphate, the first step in the lipid cycle reactions in biosynthesis of bacterial cell wall peptidoglycans. The enhanced enzyme activity was sensitive to tunicamycin, and the amino tunicamycin-sensitive N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate transferase of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Very probably mraY is the structural gene for the above enzyme.
Orotic aciduria and uridine monophosphate synthase: a reappraisal.	Three subtypes of hereditary orotic aciduria are described in the literature, all related to deficiencies in uridine monophosphate synthase, the multifunctional enzyme that contains both orotate: pyrophosphoryl transferase and orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase activities. The type of enzyme defect present in the subtypes has been re-examined by steady-state modelling of the relative outputs of the three enzymic products, uridine monophosphate, urinary orotic acid and urinary orotidine. It is shown that the ratio of urinary outputs of orotidine to orotate provides a means of testing for particular forms of enzyme defect. It is confirmed that the type I defect is caused by loss of uridine monophosphate synthase activity. Cells and tissue of type I cases have a residual amount of activity that is qualitatively unchanged: the relative rates of the transferase and decarboxylase do not differ from those of wild-type enzyme. The single claimed case of type II, thought to be due to specific inactivation of orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase, is shown to have a product spectrum inconsistent with that claim. It is proposed that this type II form does not differ sufficiently to be accepted as separate from type I. The third subtype, hereditary orotic aciduria without megaloblastic anaemia, occurs in two cases. It has the product spectrum expected of a defect in orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase. This form is the only one that appears to have a qualitatively different uridine monophosphate synthase. The possibility that orotidine monophosphate may control flux through the pyrimidine biosynthesis pathway in hereditary orotic aciduria is discussed.
Uridylation prevents 3' trimming of oligoadenylated mRNAs.	Degradation of mRNAs is usually initiated by deadenylation, the shortening of long poly(A) tails to oligo(A) tails of 12-15 As. Deadenylation leads to decapping and to subsequent 5' to 3' degradation by XRN proteins, or alternatively 3' to 5' degradation by the exosome. Decapping can also be induced by uridylation as shown for the non-polyadenylated histone mRNAs in humans and for several mRNAs in Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Aspergillus nidulans. Here we report a novel role for uridylation in preventing 3' trimming of oligoadenylated mRNAs in Arabidopsis. We show that oligo(A)-tailed mRNAs are uridylated by the cytosolic UTP:RNA uridylyltransferase URT1 and that URT1 has no major impact on mRNA degradation rates. However, in absence of uridylation, oligo(A) tails are trimmed, indicating that uridylation protects oligoadenylated mRNAs from 3' ribonucleolytic attacks. This conclusion is further supported by an increase in 3' truncated transcripts detected in urt1 mutants. We propose that preventing 3' trimming of oligo(A)-tailed mRNAs by uridylation participates in establishing the 5' to 3' directionality of mRNA degradation. Importantly, uridylation prevents 3' shortening of mRNAs associated with polysomes, suggesting that a key biological function of uridylation is to confer 5' to 3' polarity in case of co-translational mRNA decay. 
Pyrimidine homeostasis is accomplished by directed overflow metabolism.	Cellular metabolism converts available nutrients into usable energy and biomass precursors. The process is regulated to facilitate efficient nutrient use and metabolic homeostasis. Feedback inhibition of the first committed step of a pathway by its final product is a classical means of controlling biosynthesis. In a canonical example, the first committed enzyme in the pyrimidine pathway in Escherichia coli is allosterically inhibited by cytidine triphosphate. The physiological consequences of disrupting this regulation, however, have not been previously explored. Here we identify an alternative regulatory strategy that enables precise control of pyrimidine pathway end-product levels, even in the presence of dysregulated biosynthetic flux. The mechanism involves cooperative feedback regulation of the near-terminal pathway enzyme uridine monophosphate kinase. Such feedback leads to build-up of the pathway intermediate uridine monophosphate, which is in turn degraded by a conserved phosphatase, here termed UmpH, with previously unknown physiological function. Such directed overflow metabolism allows homeostasis of uridine triphosphate and cytidine triphosphate levels at the expense of uracil excretion and slower growth during energy limitation. Disruption of the directed overflow regulatory mechanism impairs growth in pyrimidine-rich environments. Thus, pyrimidine homeostasis involves dual regulatory strategies, with classical feedback inhibition enhancing metabolic efficiency and directed overflow metabolism ensuring end-product homeostasis. 
Pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphate kinase from rat bone marrow cells: a kinetic analysis of the reaction mechanism.	A kinetic analysis of the reaction mechanism of pyrimidine nucleoside monophosphate kinase was carried out with a highly purified enzyme preparation from rat bone marrow cells. The results of initial rate and product inhibition studies provided insight into the mode of action of the enzyme. The data support the views that the reaction mechanism is sequential and nonequilibrium in nature. Substrates bind to the enzyme in a random order. Substrate binding is cooperative. That is, the binding of the first substrate facilitates the binding of the second substrate. UMP can bind to the purine site on the enzyme, resulting in substrate inhibition. Product inhibition can result from the binding of UDP to either the pyrimidine or purine site, or from the binding of ADP to the purine site.
Inhibition of DNA polymerase-alpha by ara-CMP in the presence of a regulatory protein extracted from human promyelocytic leukemic cells (HL-60).	Cytotoxicity of arabinofuranosylcytosine (ara-C) has been related in vitro to the inhibition of the DNA polymerase activities by arabinosylcytosine triphosphate (ara-CTP) and the incorporation of ara-C into the DNA where, acting as a chain terminator, it slows the chain elongation. Induced in vitro cellular resistance to ara-C was shown to be secondary to altered deoxycytidine (dCyd) kinase activity, dCyd deaminase activity, or deoxynucleotides triphosphates (dNTP) pools. Recent studies reported no differences of ara-C metabolism in cells obtained from leukemic patients at diagnosis and at relapse after ara-C therapy, suggesting that unknown cellular biochemical determinants may be involved in acquisition of ara-C resistance. Using dialysed crude extracts of leukemic cells obtained from patients at diagnosis, we observed variable inhibition of their DNA polymerase activities by arabinosylcytosine monophosphate (ara-CMP) at 2 mmol/L (0% to 50% inhibition). In similar conditions, ara-CMP reduced the polymerase activities of human thymus extract by 35% and 55% in extract of HL-60 cells (cultured human promyelocytic cells). The ara-CMP factor responsible for inhibition of DNA polymerase activity was nondialysable, heat labile, proteinase K sensitive, and has an estimated molecular mass of 30 kilodalton by gel filtration. After partial purification, this protein had no DNA polymerase RNA polymerase activities. In presence of the regulator and ara-CMP at 2 mmol/L, we observed no inhibition of the HL-60 3'----5' and 5'----3' exonucleases activities, suggesting the regulator interaction being mainly with the DNA polymerases in presence of ara-CMP. The relevance of the presence or absence of this protein regarding the cell sensitivity to ara-C is under investigation.
A study of unwinding of DNA and shielding of the DNA grooves by RNA polymerase by using methylation with dimethylsulphate.	The dimethylsulphate method has been used to study the complexes of RNA polymerase (Escherichia coli) with DNA of T7 phage, poly[d(A--T)] and fragments of calf thymus DNA protected against DNase digestion by RNA polymerase. The binding of RNA polymerase to DNA significantly increases the formation of 1-methyl-adenine produced by methylation of the single-stranded DNA region, diminishes by about 10% the formation of 3-methyl-adenine by methylation within the minor groove and does not affect the formation of 7-methyl-guanine by methylation within the major DNA groove. The presence of nascent RNA decreases the formation of 1-methyl-adenine in DNA of the complex by about 30%. The initiation of RNA synthesis or RNA synthesis itself does not influence the methylation of the major groove but shielding of the minor groove increases by about twice as much. These results suggest that RNA polymerase, upon binding, breaks Watson-Crick base-pairing in a DNA region of about 15-base-pairs long, that nascent RNA forms a duplex with DNA of about 10-base-pairs long; and that the enzyme weakly interacts with DNA along its grooves and preferentially makes contacts with the minor groove.
A radioassay for pyrimidine-5'-nucleotidase activity.	A simple method for the determination of pyrimidine-5'-nucleotidase activity in red cells is described. The radioactive uridine released after incubation with [5-3H]] uridine 5-monophosphate (UMP) is separated on DEAE-cellulose paper and counted. This method does not require preliminary dialysis of the hemolysate and is 50-fold more sensitive than that based on the measurement of the inorganic phosphate released. One patient with pyrimidine-5'-nucleotidase deficiency was detected with this method.
Studies on the mechanism of glucocorticoid hormone induced alterations in rat thymic transcription--I. Evidence from reconstituted cross-over transcription assays that sequential increases and decreases in transcription are due to changes in the activity of RNA polymerase II rather than in the activity of chromatin template.	In experiments to determine the mechanism of glucocorticoid induced decreases in thymic transcription, adrenalectomized rats were injected with hydrocortisone (50 mg/kg) or vehicle. Thymic nuclei were used to prepare chromatins and soluble nuclear extracts containing RNA polymerase II for cross-over experiments. With calf thymus DNA or rat thymic chromatins as templates limiting RNA polymerase II from rats treated with hydrocortisone 3 h previously had 130% of the [3H]UMP incorporating activity of RNA polymerase II from control vehicle treated rats. In contrast, limiting RNA polymerase II from rats treated with hydrocortisone 12 h previously had 40-50% of the [3H]UMP incorporating activity of RNA polymerase II from controls. When limiting calf thymus DNA or rat thymic chromatins were used in 12 h cross-over experiments. Individual RNA polymerases II produced equal [3H]UMP incorporations, but RNA polymerase II activity from hydrocortisone treated rats was again only 50% of control values. Thus with template saturation, RNA polymerase II from hydrocortisone treated rats could not transcribe rat thymic chromatin templates to the level achieved by RNA polymerase II from control rats. This suggests that the activity, rather than the amount, of RNA polymerase II from hydrocortisone treated rats is reduced. Double reciprocal plots of [3H]UMP incorporation on rat chromatins with increasing concentrations of RNA polymerases II were made at 12 h. The apparent Km for RNA polymerase II from animals treated with hydrocortisone was identical to that of RNA polymerase II from controls, but the Vmax of RNA polymerase II from hydrocortisone treated animals was reduced. These data suggest the presence of an inhibitor of transcription or an RNA polymerase II defective in its capacity to initiate and/or elongate RNA transcripts. Further experiments demonstrated that these effects were not due to steroid induced changes in ribonuclease or protease activities.
