Rapid determination of rat plasma uridine levels by HPLC-ESI-MS utilizing the Captiva plates for sample preparation.	A rapid, accurate and precise HPLC-ESI-MS method for the determination of rat plasma uridine concentrations was developed and is described here. Sample preparation involves methanol precipitation of plasma proteins in a 96-well Captiva protein precipitation filter plate. A clear extract is drawn through the filter plate with vacuum, followed by evaporation of the extract and subsequent reconstitution prior to chromatography on a reversed-phase column with an aqueous mobile phase [0.1% (v/v) glacial acetic acid]. Detection was accomplished by positive-ion electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. A calibration curve ranging in concentration from 0.78 to 25 microM was constructed by best-fit, 1/x weighting linear regression analysis of the calibration standard concentrations vs peak height ratios of analyte with internal standard. The correlation coefficient was >0.995. The overall assay accuracy as shown by the back-calculated concentrations of the calibration curve ranged from 96.6 to 103% with RSD ranging from 4.5 to 20%. While this assay method was developed for the determination of uridine in rat plasma, it could be readily adapted for determination of uridine in plasma from other species, such as human.
Liquid chromatographic method for the determination of uridine in human serum.	To evaluate uridine levels in humans we developed a very sensitive and specific high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the determination of uridine in serum. We use techniques which are available in a standard analytical laboratory. Chromatographic analysis was carried out on a Phenomenex Aqua C18 5 micro 125A column protected by a guard cartridge system. Potassium dihydrogen phosphate buffer-acetonitrile was used as an eluent and oxypurinol as the internal standard. All sample preparation steps were done at 4 degrees C and the autosampler was cooled down to 4 degrees C. The calibration curve was linear throughout the calibration range from 0.25 to 100 micromol/l. This method was primarily established to evaluate uridine serum levels in patients with HIV infection since patients on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) might develop metabolic disturbances that could lead to severe and fatal lactic acidosis due to mitochondrial toxicity. It is suggested that a limited or inadequate uridine supply is at least in part responsible for the onset of such deterioration.
Oxypurine and nucleoside concentrations in renal veins during reperfusion are predictors of early graft function.	To examine whether purine and pyrimidine nucleoside concentrations as well as oxypurine concentrations in renal and peripheral veins during reperfusion correlate with graft function parameters.
Relationship between plasma uridine and urinary urea excretion.	To investigate whether the concentration of uridine in plasma is related to the urinary excretion of urea, 45 healthy male subjects with normouricemia and normal blood pressure were studied after providing informed consent. Immediately after collection of 24-hour urine, blood samples were drawn after an overnight fast except for water. The contents of ingested foods during the 24-hour urine collection period were described by the subjects and analyzed by a dietician. Simple regression analysis showed that plasma uridine was correlated with the urinary excretions of urea (R = 0.41, P < .01), uric acid (R = 0.36, P < .05), and uridine (R = 0.30, P < .05), as well as uric acid clearance (R = 0.35, P < .05) and purine intake (R = 0.30, P < .05). In contrast, multiple regression analysis showed a positive relationship only between plasma uridine and urinary excretion of urea. These results suggest that an increase in de novo pyrimidine synthesis leads to an increased concentration of uridine in plasma via nitrogen catabolism in healthy subjects with normouricemia and normal blood pressure.
Biochemistry of uridine in plasma.	Uridine is a pyrimidine nucleoside that plays a crucial role in synthesis of RNA, glycogen, and biomembrane. In humans, uridine is present in plasma in considerably higher quantities than other purine and pyrimidine nucleosides, thus it may be utilized for endogenous pyrimidine synthesis. Uridine has a number of biological effects on a variety of organs with or without disease, such as the reproductive organs, central and peripheral nervous systems, and liver. In addition, it is used in clinical situations as a rescue agent to protect against the adverse effects of 5-fluorouracil. Since the biological actions of uridine may be related to its plasma concentration, it is important to examine factors that have effects on that concentration. Factors associated with an increase in plasma concentration of uridine include enhanced ATP consumption, enhanced uridine diphosphate (UDP)-glucose consumption via glycogenesis, inhibited uridine uptake by cells via the nucleoside transport pathway, increased intestinal absorption, and increased 5-phosphribosyl-1-pyrophosphate and urea synthesis. In contrast, factors that decrease the plasma concentration of uridine are associated with accelerated uridine uptake by cells via the nucleoside transport pathway and decreased pyrimidine synthesis.
A nutrient combination that can affect synapse formation.	Brain neurons form synapses throughout the life span. This process is initiated by neuronal depolarization, however the numbers of synapses thus formed depend on brain levels of three key nutrients-uridine, the omega-3 fatty acid DHA, and choline. Given together, these nutrients accelerate formation of synaptic membrane, the major component of synapses. In infants, when synaptogenesis is maximal, relatively large amounts of all three nutrients are provided in bioavailable forms (e.g., uridine in the UMP of mothers' milk and infant formulas). However, in adults the uridine in foods, mostly present at RNA, is not bioavailable, and no food has ever been compelling demonstrated to elevate plasma uridine levels. Moreover, the quantities of DHA and choline in regular foods can be insufficient for raising their blood levels enough to promote optimal synaptogenesis. In Alzheimer's disease (AD) the need for extra quantities of the three nutrients is enhanced, both because their basal plasma levels may be subnormal (reflecting impaired hepatic synthesis), and because especially high brain levels are needed for correcting the disease-related deficiencies in synaptic membrane and synapses. 
Benzylacyclouridine. Pharmacokinetics, metabolism and biochemical effects in mice.	The pharmacokinetics, tissue distribution and urinary excretion of the uridine (Urd) phosphorylase (EC 2.4.2.3) inhibitor 5-benzylacyclouridine (BAU) were studied in C57BL/6 female mice by reverse-phase HPLC. The plasma clearance of BAU after i.v. administration followed first-order kinetics with a half-life of approximately 36 min. Other pharmacokinetic parameters such as volume of distribution (17 ml), clearance rate (0.3 ml/min) and the elimination rate constant (0.019 hr-1) were relatively constant over a dose range of 5 to 240 mg/kg when based on a first-order clearance model. Following oral administration, BAU was rapidly absorbed from the gut; peak plasma concentrations occurred within 30 min and were approximately 60% of equivalent i.v. doses. The distribution of BAU between plasma and most major organs was rapid and efficient, the exceptions being spleen and brain, which maintained only 40% and 10%, respectively, of the plasma BAU concentration. Approximately 41% of the injected dose of BAU was recovered intact in urine within 24 hr. Another 27% appeared as a more polar metabolite which, at a concentration of 50 microM, did not inhibit murine Urd phosphorylase. A near linear relationship was observed between the injected dose of BAU and its ability to increase the plasma concentration of Urd; i.v. injections of 30, 120 and 240 mg/kg increased plasma Urd 3-, 7- and 15-fold respectively. The utility of these data in the design of combination chemotherapy regimens containing BAU and related compounds is discussed.
Comparison of the equilibrium exchange of nucleosides and 3-O-methylglucose in human erythrocytes and of the effects of cytochalasin B, phloretin and dipyridamole on their transport.	Because of similarities in the physical and molecular properties of the nucleoside and sugar transporters of human erythrocytes and the photoaffinity labeling of the sugar transporter by 8-azidoadenosine (Jarvis et al. (1986) J. Biol. Chem. 261, 11077-11085), we have directly compared the equilibrium exchange of uridine and 3-O-methylglucose in these cells as measured by rapid kinetic techniques under identical experimental conditions. Both the Michaelis-Menten constant and maximum velocity were about 100-fold higher for 3-O-methylglucose exchange than for uridine exchange so that the first order rate constants for both transporters were about the same. When calculated on the basis of the number of nucleoside and sugar carriers per red cell estimated by equilibrium binding of nitrobenzylthioinosine and cytochalasin B, respectively, the turnover numbers for the sugar and nucleoside carriers with 3-O-methylglucose and uridine, respectively, as substrates were quite similar. Various sugars up to concentrations of 108 mM had no effect on the exchange of 500 microM uridine or adenosine, and uridine up to a concentration of 50 mM had no effect on the exchange of 10 mM 3-O-methylglucose. Adenosine, on the other hand, inhibited 3-O-methylglucose exchange in a concentration dependent manner, though not very effectively (IC50 approximately equal to 3 mM). Both uridine and 3-O-methylglucose exchange were inhibited in a concentration dependent manner by cytochalasin B, phloretin and dipyridamole, but cytochalasin B and phloretin were 100-times more effective in inhibiting 3-O-methylglucose than uridine exchange, whereas the opposite was the case for the inhibition by dipyridamole.
Effect of a 400-kilocalorie carbohydrate diet on human plasma uridine and hypoxanthine concentrations.	Seven healthy female volunteers were fed a 400-kcal carbohydrate diet for 4 days after eating a standardized diet for 3 days. Plasma uridine and hypoxanthine concentrations were measured by high-performance liquid chromatography. After 4 days on the 400-kcal diet, the plasma uridine concentration decreased by 35% but the plasma hypoxanthine concentration remained stable.
Uridine-induced hypothermia in mice and rats in relation to plasma and tissue levels of uridine and its metabolites.	Administration of high-dose uridine or cytidine (3500 mg/kg) resulted in severe hypothermia of 6-10 degrees C in mice. This effect of uridine was observed in three different mouse strains, C57B1/6, Balb/c, and Swiss. A high-dose of uridine also caused hypothermia in Wistar rats. Co-infusion of uridine with benzylacyclouridine, an inhibitor of uridine phosphorylase, partially prevented uridine-mediated hypothermia in mice. A low dose of uridine (100 mg/kg) resulted in a slight increase in temperature. Plasma pharmacokinetics of uridine (at 3500 mg/kg) were studied in two mouse strains, C57B1/6 and Balb/c, and those of cytidine only in C57B1/6 mice. Peak plasma concentrations of uridine in both strains after uridine administration were about 20 mM (at 30-60 min). The peak plasma concentration of cytidine in C57B1/6 mice after cytidine administration was about 12 mM and that of uridine, 1.3 mM. The mean residence time for uridine was about 105 min. The area under the plasma concentration-time curve for uridine was about 50 mmol h/l, and that for cytidine, about 25 mmol h/l. In various tissues of C57B1/6 mice the levels of uridine, uracil and total uracil and cytosine nucleotide pools were determined before and 2 h after uridine administration. Uridine levels increased about 53-fold in liver, about 70-fold in a colon tumor, and only about 7-fold in brain, while the corresponding uracil levels increased about 9-fold, 4-fold and 11-fold, respectively. Total uracil nucleotide pools increased about 8-fold, 3.2-fold and 1.6-fold, respectively. Cytosine nucleotide pools did not increase in the brain. In conclusion, high-dose uridine administration caused severe hypothermia. Plasma levels of uridine and uracil were enhanced to a considerably higher extent than the levels in the tissues. The hypothermia might be related to breakdown products of uridine, since inhibition of uridine breakdown partially prevented hypothermia and since in brain uracil nucleotide levels were only slightly increased after uridine administration, while those of uracil were more markedly increased than in other tissues.
Nucleotide changes in oxidatively stressed lymphocytes.	Similar to HIV-1-induced suppression of thymus-derived lymphocytes (T cells), oxidatively stressed T cells show inhibited DNA synthesis and proliferation. The influence of oxidative stress on nucleotide pools was explored using 3H-uridine addition to OKT3-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes. The cells were preincubated and stimulated in the presence of 1 mM buthionine sulfoximine to inhibit GSH synthesis. This treatment gave rise to a significant reduction in dUDP and TTP biosynthesis following 18-32 hours stimulation, indicating possible impairment of ribonucleotide reductase activity.
