Flexible enzymatic and chemo-enzymatic approaches to a broad range of uridine-diphospho-sugars.	Enzymatic and chemo-enzymatic approaches provide straightforward access to uridine diphospho sugars irrespective of the relative and absolute configuration of the sugar, its ring size and substitution pattern.
PseG of pseudaminic acid biosynthesis: a UDP-sugar hydrolase as a masked glycosyltransferase.	The flagellin proteins in pathogenic bacteria such as Campylobacter jejuni and Helicobacter pylori are heavily glycosylated with the nine-carbon alpha-keto acid, pseudaminic acid. The presence of this posttranslational modification is absolutely required for assembly of functional flagella. Since motility is required for colonization, pseudaminic acid biosynthesis represents a virulence factor in these bacteria. Pseudaminic acid is generated from UDP-N-acetylglucosamine in five biosynthetic steps. The final step has been shown to involve the condensation of 2,4-diacetamido-2,4,6-trideoxy-L-altrose (6-deoxy-Altdi-NAc) with phosphoenolpyruvate as catalyzed by the enzyme pseudaminic acid synthase, NeuB3. The 6-deoxy-AltdiNAc used in this process is generated from its nucleotide-linked form, UDP-6-deoxy-AltdiNAc, by the action of a hydrolase that cleaves the glycosidic bond and releases UDP. This manuscript describes the first characterization of a UDP-6-deoxy-AltdiNAc hydrolase, namely PseG (Cj1312) from C. jejuni. The activity of this enzyme is independent of the presence of divalent metal ions, and the values of the catalytic constants were found to be k(cat) = 27 s(-1) and K(m) = 174 microm. The enzyme was shown to hydrolyze the substrate with an overall inversion of stereochemistry at C-1 and to utilize a C-O bond cleavage mechanism during catalysis. These results, coupled with homology comparisons, suggest that the closest ancestors to the hydrolase are members of the metal-independent GT-B family of glycosyltransferases that include the enzyme MurG.
MS analysis of chondroitin polymerization: effects of Mn2+ ions on the stability of UDP-sugars and chondroitin synthesis.	Chondroitin polymerase from Escherichia coli strain K4 (K4CP) synthesizes chondroitin (CH) polysaccharides by the alternate addition of N-acetyl-D-galactosamine (GalNAc) and D-glucuronic acid (GlcA) to acceptor CH oligosaccharides in the presence of Mn(2+) ions. In this study, we applied matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization and time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) for the further characterization of the products synthesized by K4CP from CH hexasaccharide as an initial acceptor and UDP-GalNAc and UDP-GlcA as donors. The analysis identified individual CH chains of various lengths and enabled the calculation of their average molecular weights. The ion peaks of the CH chains synthesized in the short-time reactions demonstrated not only the alternate addition of GlcA and GalNAc but also the more frequent transfer of GlcA and GalNAc, consistent with our previous kinetic data. In contrast, the MS spectra of the chains synthesized in the long-time reaction showed that CH chains containing GalNAc at the nonreducing ends were more abundant than those containing GlcA. We found that this inconsistency was due to the preferential decomposition of UDP-GlcA by Mn(2+) ions. We defined the optimal conditions to yield further elongation of the CH chains that have nearly equal numbers of GlcA and GalNAc residues at the nonreducing ends.
