The analysis of the methylenedioxy derivatives of amphetamine]	Methods for analysis of narcotics belonging to amphetamine methylene dioxy derivatives (MDD) are reviewed. The characteristics of these agents, their metabolism, and methods used for their detection and identification (TLC, GC, HPLC, GC/MS) are described. Methods for their extraction from biological objects (human urine and hair) are described. Efficacy of MDMA and MDEA from the urine by different extractants is assessed. The data demonstrate different potentialities for detection and identification of amphetamine MDD, including those in biological specimens (human urine and hairs), by numerous chromatographic methods.
A GC/MS/MS screening method for multiple organic acidemias from urine specimens.	A gas chromatography tandem mass spectrometry method using an ion trap GC/MS system was developed to quickly screen urine samples for 14 organic acids associated with multiple organic acidemias. The following organic acids are used as diagnostic markers: methylmalonic acid, glutaric acid, 2-ketoisocaproic acid, succinylacetone, 3-methylcrotonylglycine, tiglylglycine, isovalerylglycine, fumaric acid, butyrylglycine, propionylglycine, hexanoylglycine, adipic acid, suberic acid, and sebacic acid. 2-ketocaproic acid is used as an internal standard. The samples are prepared using a solid-phase extraction and converted to trimethylsilyl derivatives. The extraction efficiency for the 14 compounds is between 57 and 106%. A derivatized standard mixture of the 14 markers is run prior to the patient samples to determine the accurate absolute and relative retention times. The samples are then injected and the product ion spectra monitored. For data analysis, one characteristic product ion plot is extracted for each of the 14 marker compounds, and the presence of a peak with the expected retention time is determined. The areas of the product ion peaks are compared with the reference range determined from 30 normal controls. Ten samples of patients with known organic acidemias were measured. For all patients, diagnostic peaks at the expected retention times of at least five times the upper limit of the reference range were detected. The method, with its relatively fast sample preparation, short 10.0 min run time and simple data analysis, is suitable for use as a quick metabolic screen of very sick patients in whom there is concern regarding the possibility of a treatable inborn error.
High-sensitivity dye binding assay for albumin in urine.	We developed a dye-binding method for albumin in urine based on bis (3',3"-diiodo4'4"-dihydroxy-5'5"-dinitrophenyl)-3,4,5,6-tetrabr omosulfonphthalein (DIDNTB), a dye that has a higher chemical sensitivity and specificity for albumin when compared to two other commonly used dyes. We prepared urine dipsticks with DIDNTB and certain other compounds to prevent "nonspecific" binding to the dipstick matrix. The detection limit for albumin with DIDNTB as the dye is about 10 mg/L. The extent of dye binding to proteins and other compounds was studied using ultracentrifugation and a selectively permeable membrane that permitted the passage of free but not bound dye; we believe this method is superior to photometric titration. The affinity of the dyes for albumin was found to be pH dependent with stronger binding at pH 1.8 than at pH 7.0. At pH 1.8, DIDNTB had a ca.10-fold greater binding coefficient to albumin when compared to the widely used dyes, tetrabromophenol blue (CI 4430-25-5) or bromophenol blue (CI 115-39-9). We developed a system that minimized nonspecific binding by the dye through the use of polymethyl vinyl ethers and bis-(heptapropylene glycol) carbonate. DIDNTB showed a greater chemical specificity for albumin when compared to most other proteins. The new albumin dipsticks are resistant to many potential interferences at substantial concentrations, making the dipsticks suitable to screen for albuminuria.
Determination of the low protein concentration in biological fluids. Methodological aspects (the use of mathematical analysis)]	We investigated the effect of albumin/globulin ratio on the analytic error of protein determination. Several methods were used: Bradford, Lowry, pyrogallol-red, biuret, and sulfosalicylic acid. Reagents used in Lowry method exhibit higher affinity to globulins, whereas reagents used in other methods have higher affinity to albumins. Although the biuret method demonstrated equal efficiency in determining concentrations of various proteins low sensitivity of this method limits its clinical applicability. For other methods there was non-linear dependence of the analytic error on protein composition in the sample. Combination of two methods for protein determination (using one calibrator) completely removes the analytic error.
Diagnosis of T1 bladder transitional cell carcinoma by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis urinalysis.	The diagnosis and follow-up of patients with T1 bladder cancer relies invasive procedures. We developed a non-invasive method for detection of T1 bladder cancer based on a feasible non-radioactive molecular approach.
Feasibility of using paper impregnated with urine instead of liquid urine for assessing ovarian activity.	Ovarian activity should ideally be assessed by serial non-invasive methods that require simple procedures for sample collection and storage. Measurement of urinary oestrone-3-glucuronide and pregnanediol-3 alpha-glucuronide is a non-invasive method available for assessment of ovarian activity, but transport of large numbers of urine samples is cumbersome and samples need to be stored frozen. An alternative sample collection, transport and storage procedure that is easier to handle and requires no or minimal cold storage facilities will particularly benefit studies in which ovulatory activity needs to be assessed in field settings.
Quantification of urinary hemoglobin by an immunological method]	The quantification method of urinary hemoglobin has not been established. We examined whether a reagent (Eiken, Tokyo) used to immunologically assay fecal hemoglobin could be utilized to quantify urinary hemoglobin. The coefficients of variation were 2.2-3.0% in the reproducibility of one-run assays using urine and 4.3-5.7% in that of multiple-run assays using the standard sample of hemoglobin. Urinary hemoglobin was unstable and decreased in a time- and temperature-dependent manner. However, addition of the hemoglobin stabilization buffer (50 mM phosphate buffer, pH 6.4) (Eiken) to urine made urinary hemoglobin stable. Urinary hemoglobin levels did not change significantly when stored at 4 degrees C for 7 days or at -80 degrees C for 30 days. The hemoglobin concentration (mean +/- SD) of urine showing 1+, 2+ and 3+ with a test strip was 385 +/- 165(n = 30), 1070 +/- 499(n = 40) and 4130 +/- 2770 ng/ml (n = 20), respectively. Urinary hemoglobin did not correlate with urinary albumin, transferrin, immunoglobulin G, N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase nor alpha 1 microglobulin. These results suggest that this immunological method using the hemoglobin stabilization buffer can be utilized for quantification of urinary hemoglobin, which may provide clinically important information.
Detection of 1-hydroxypyrene in urine by direct fluorometric analysis on a solid sorbing phase. Validation and application of the method to biological monitoring of PAH-exposed persons.	A new method for the detection and quantification of 1-hydroxypyrene (1-OHPy) in the urines of persons exposed to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) has been evaluated. The method is based on extraction/concentration of the analyte onto a small element cut into tabs from an extraction disk (ENVI-Disk trade mark C18 from Supelco) combined with front-face synchronous fluorescence detection and direct quantification on the solid sorbent element. The limit of detection for 1-OHPy was estimated to be about 0.03-0.04 micro g/L, a value which is significantly lower than the pyrene metabolite concentration commonly found in unexposed to weakly PAH-exposed persons ( approximately 0.1-0.3 micro g/L). A quantification based on only one standard addition has been adopted and the method was validated both by testing analyte recovery using a known amount of a commercially available pyrene metabolite and by comparing the results with those obtained by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The results were very close to the HPLC results, the largest deviations being attributed to variations or defects in the stirring system, the rate stability of which was found to be of major importance for the reproducibility and reliability of the measurements. The applicability of the method was further tested by analyzing 1-OHPy in the urine of a volunteer exposed to various automobile traffic zones. The results confirm previous findings which lead to the conclusion that urinary concentrations of PAH metabolites are influenced more by smoking habit than by exposure to urban atmospheric pollution. Thus, the method appears to be an alternative to the usual method based on HPLC. Moreover it presents some advantages, being simple to operate and requiring relatively low-cost instruments.
Proteinuria: how to evaluate an important finding.	Proteinuria is a common laboratory finding in outpatients and should not be discounted. When it is due to a glomerular disease, early diagnosis is important to prevent further renal damage. Proteinuria may also be a marker for progressive atherosclerosis.
How well does ISO 11948-1 (the Rothwell method) for measuring the absorption capacity of incontinence pads in the laboratory correlate with clinical pad performance.	The ability of ISO 11948-1 (the Rothwell method) to predict the leakage performance of disposable bodyworn pads for heavy urinary incontinence was investigated by measuring correlations between models based on clinical evaluations of 138 diapers and inserts (the two major design categories), and technical models based on their Rothwell absorption capacities and design features. Correlations were poorer than in the original 1993 study for the standard (r < or =0.87 compared with r < or =0.95), but still strong enough to help with purchasing choices. For a given Rothwell capacity, the leakage performance of diapers was far superior to inserts; for example, diapers containing 450 and 300 g of urine performed, as well as inserts containing 300 and 100 g, respectively. No evidence was found for any other design feature having a significant impact on leakage performance. The coefficient of variation for Rothwell capacity (a measure of product consistency) had significant impact on the leakage performance of diapers, but not inserts. The probability of diapers with the poorest consistency leaking exceeded that for the best by about 10 percentage points. Similarly, diapers were about 10 percentage points more likely to leak when used at night than during the day. Differences between day-time and night-time use of inserts were not studied.
Towards evidence based emergency medicine: best BETs from the Manchester Royal Infirmary. Accuracy of negative dipstick urine analysis in ruling out urinary tract infection in adults.	A short cut review was carried out to establish whether negative dipstick urine analysis is sensitive enough to rule out urinary tract infection (UTI) in adults with urinary symptoms. Altogether 75 papers were found using the reported search, of which two presented the best evidence to answer the clinical question. The author, date and country of publication, patient group studied, study type, relevant outcomes, results and study weaknesses of these best papers are tabulated. A clinical bottom line is stated.
Potential for misdiagnosis due to lack of metabolic derangement in combined methylmalonic aciduria/hyperhomocysteinemia (cblC) in the neonate.	We report two infants with an inborn error of cobalamin (vitamin B(12)) metabolism whose clinical presentation in the first month of life strongly suggested bacterial or viral sepsis. The absence of any acute metabolic derangement (acidosis, hyperammonemia, hypoglycemia, or ketosis) in association with clinical features suggesting sepsis (lethargy, obtundation) could impede the correct diagnosis of cobalamin C (cblC) disorder. In addition, this is the first documentation of cerebrospinal fluid hyperhomocysteinemia in cblC defect that was highly increased and is likely to be associated with neurotoxicity in cblC patients.
Effects of urinary tract inflammation and sample blood contamination on urine albumin and total protein concentrations in canine urine samples.	Urinary tract inflammation and hemorrhage are believed to be common causes of proteinuria in dogs based on results of studies that measured total urine protein concentration. A method to quantify urine albumin (UAlb) concentration in dogs recently has become available; however, the effect of inflammation on albuminuria is unknown.
1H NMR spectroscopic method for diagnosis of malabsorption syndrome: a pilot study.	Despite its well-documented limitations, colorimetry has been commonly used for the d-xylose test in the diagnosis of malabsorption syndrome (MAS). With a possibility of overcoming its limitations, the use of (1)H NMR spectroscopy for D-xylose test is explored herein. Urine samples from 35 adults with suspected MAS were obtained before and after oral ingestion of D-xylose. The diagnosis of MAS was based on fecal fat (72 h excretion using Van de Kamer's technique, normal < 7 g/24 h and/or Sudan III stain of spot stool specimen, normal<or=10 droplets/high power field) and/or endoscopic duodenal biopsy. Urinary excretion of D-xylose over 5 h after consumption of 5 g D-xylose, using both colorimetry and NMR was compared (normal>or=1 g/5 g/5 h). In vitro experiments on the standard specimens of D-xylose were also performed independently using both methods. Colorimetry showed a lower value for the quantity of D-xylose excreted in urine than NMR [median 0.73 (0.17-1.89 g) vs 1.37 (0.17-3.23 g), respectively; p<0.0001, Wilcoxon's signed ranks test]. Colorimetry and NMR correctly diagnosed 11/12 and 10/12 (p=N.S.) patients with MAS and 14/23 and 20/23 (p<0.05) without MAS, respectively. Sensitivity and specificity of colorimetry and NMR were 91.6 and 60.7% vs 83.3 and 86.9%, respectively. In in vitro experiments, the values obtained for standard xylose using NMR showed a maximum error of 7%, whereas the colorimetric method showed 20%. The NMR method is simple and may be more accurate for the D-xylose absorption test. Colorimetry was found to be inferior as compared with NMR due to its low specificity.
The (fixed) urinary sediment, a simple and useful diagnostic tool in patients with haematuria.	Examination of the urinary sediment is a simple and indispensable tool in the diagnostic approach to patients with asymptomatic haematuria. Various glomerular and nonglomerular diseases can cause haematuria. A well-trained expert can distinguish between these two forms of haematuria by examining the urinary sediment under a simple light microscope. In glomerular haematuria, dysmorphic erythrocytes and erythrocyte casts are found, whereas in nonglomerular haematuria the erythrocytes are monomorphic and erythrocyte casts are absent. However, few people have sufficient expertise in the examination of the urinary sediment, and consequently this investigation is performed far too seldom. A few years ago, a simple method of fixation of the urinary sediment became available. Fixed specimens can be stored at room temperature for at least two weeks, which enables the sending of a fixed specimen to an expert examiner by regular mail. In this way, the urinary sediment can more frequently be used as the initial investigation in the diagnostic route of patients with asymptomatic haematuria.
Cystocentesis is essential for reliable diagnosis of urinary tract infections in cats.	Urine samples were taken from 79 cats with clinical signs of acute feline lower urinary tract disease (FLUTD) by means of cystocenthesis, catheterization, or at voiding and were cultured. No bacteria were cultured from 79% of the samples taken by cystocenthesis, 55% of the samples obtained by catheterization, and 17% of the samples obtained at voiding. Samples obtained by cystocenthesis most often yielded pure cultures, whereas the voided samples were often contaminated, yielding mixed cultures. Therefore, it is difficult to interpret culture results for voided or catheterized urine samples, which may lead to overdiagnosis of urinary tract infections. E. coli was the most prevalent bacterial species. Numbers of bacteria were low (10(2) to 10(3)/ml) in three out of eight culture-positive samples taken by cystocenthesis, indicating that the number of bacteria present in the bladder of cats with urinary tract infections may be low. This may lead to underdiagnosis of urinary tract infections when interpreting culture results for voided and catheterized samples, because bacterial counts lower than 10(3) colony-forming units/ml of urine are generally considered not clinically relevant. In conclusion, cystocenthesis is the preferred method of sampling for the evaluation of cats with suspected urinary tract infection.
Rapid preparation of human urine and plasma samples for analysis of F2-isoprostanes by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.	Reliable MS-based methods have been developed for the measurement of free and esterified F2-isoprostanes. However, prior to sample analysis several steps of purification, including solid-phase extraction followed by TLC or HPLC, are usually required, making it tedious to analyze large sample numbers, e.g., for population studies. We report a quick sample purification method using anion exchange solid phase extraction (SPE), which is highly selective for acidic compounds. Urine and hydrolyzed plasma of healthy individuals were acidified before SPE extraction, washed with 4 different solvent mixtures and finally eluted with ethyl acetate. The eluted samples were first derivatized with pentafluorobenzyl bromide followed by a second derivatization with bis-(trimethylsilyl)trifluoroacetamide. F2-isoprostanes were analyzed by GC-MS-NCI. The method was highly sensitive; the limit of detection at 5:1 signal-to-noise ratio was 0.037 ng/ml and 0.007 ng/mg creatinine for plasma and urine, respectively. Anion exchange SPE extraction for F2-isoprostane showed recovery of 55-65% and high linearity for concentration 0-1.0 ng/ml for urine (CV=4.08%, r2=0.990) and 0-0.5 ng/ml for plasma (CV=4.07%, r2=0.998). Fasting for 6h significantly increased plasma F2-isoprostanes levels, which has implications for the design of intervention studies using this biomarker.
Improved method for determination of 1-hydroxypyrene in human urine.	We have developed an improved method for the analysis of human urine for 1-hydroxypyrene (1-HOP), an accepted biomarker of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon uptake. This method takes advantage of commercially available 96-well format devices, which expedite sample preparation before quantitation by HPLC with fluorescence detection. In addition to improved speed of analysis, which is critical for the application of this assay in molecular epidemiology studies, the method described here uses an internal standard, 1-hydroxybenz[a]anthracene, improved sample preparation methods, and optimized HPLC and fluorescence detection conditions. The resulting method for analysis of 1-HOP is sensitive (detection limit, 0.05 pmol/mL urine), accurate (as determined by known addition of 1-HOP to urine), and precise [relative SD (RSD), 4.13%]. A longitudinal study of 1-HOP levels in the urine of 10 nonsmokers showed considerable day-to-day (mean RSD, 55.1 %) and week-to-week (mean RSD, 38.2 %) intra-individual variation, indicating the necessity for multiple sampling in studies concerned with relatively small differences in polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon exposure.
Urinary steroids in young women with eating disorders.	Urinary steroid components were measured after enzyme hydrolysis and methoxym-silyl derivatization by capillary gas chromatography in young women with eating disorders. Using three internal standards, programmed temperature from 50 to 300 degrees C and flame ionization detection, on ULTRA-1 capillary column the separation of 28 steroid components is possible. Fifteen young women with different eating disorders, i.e. anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa and bulimarexia (aged 16-28 years) and 15 healthy women (aged 22-26 years) collected 24-h urine. A significant decrease of dehydroepiandrosterone (p<0.05) and a significant elevation of the stress marker allo-tetrahydrocorticosterone (p<0.05) were observed in the patients with compared to the controls. Among the patients two groups were defined due to a significant difference in the content of the cortisol metabolites compared to each other and to controls (p<0.01). The results confirm the role of dehydroepiandrosterone in eating disorders. The increased level of the stress marker allo-tetrahydrocorticosterone refers to the involvement of stress in these diseases, but the relevance of hormone alteration to the pathophysiology of eating disorders remains to be elucidated. The reason of the differences in cortisol metabolites levels in some patients needs further investigations.
Analysis of phenanthrols in human urine by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry: potential use in carcinogen metabolite phenotyping.	Phenanthrene is the simplest polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (PAH) containing a bay region, a feature closely associated with carcinogenicity. We have proposed that measurement of phenanthrene metabolites in human urine could be used to identify interindividual differences in metabolic activation and detoxification of PAH, and that these differences may be related to cancer susceptibility in smokers and other exposed individuals. Previously, we reported a method for quantitation of r-1,t-2,3,c-4-tetrahydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrophenanthrene (trans, anti-PheT) in human urine. trans, anti-PheT is the ultimate product of the diol epoxide metabolic activation pathway of phenanthrene. In this study, we have extended our carcinogen metabolite phenotyping approach by developing a method for quantitation of phenanthrols in human urine. PAH phenols such as phenanthrols are considered as detoxification products. After treatment of the urine by beta-glucuronidase and arylsulfatase, a fraction enriched in phenanthrols was prepared by partitioning and solid phase extraction. The phenanthrols were silylated and analyzed by gas chromatography-positive ion chemical ionization-mass spectrometry with selected ion monitoring. [ring-(13)C(6)]3-phenanthrol was used as an internal standard. Accurate and reproducible quantitation of four phenanthrols, 1-phenanthrol (1-HOPhe), 2-HOPhe, 3-HOPhe, and 4-HOPhe, was readily achieved. In smokers, mean levels of 1-HOPhe (0.96 +/- 1.2 pmol/mg creatinine) and 3-HOPhe (0.82 +/- 0.62 pmol/mg creatinine) were greater than those of 2-HOPhe (0.47 +/- 0.29 pmol/mg creatinine), and 4-HOPhe (0.11 +/- 0.07 pmol/mg creatinine). There were no significant differences between the levels of any of the phenanthrols in smokers and nonsmokers. Total levels of the quantified phenanthrols were highly correlated with those of 3-HOPhe. Ratios of phenanthrene metabolites representing activation and detoxification were calculated as trans, anti-PheT divided by 3-HOPhe. There was a 7.5-fold spread of ratios in smokers, and a 12.3-fold spread in nonsmokers, suggesting that this may be a useful parameter for distinguishing individual metabolic responses to PAH exposure.
Urine collection pads: are samples reliable for urine biochemistry and microscopy?	The aim of the study was to validate the reliability of samples obtained with urine collection pads (UCP) for selected laboratory biochemical analyses, urine cell microscopy, and bedside semi-quantitative stick urinalysis. A series of laboratory experiments was performed to test agreement between urine concentrations, or results, before and after passage through a UCP (incubated for 37 degrees C for 15 min). The following urinalyses were performed: electrolytes, calcium, phosphate, urate, osmolality, pH, protein, catecholamines, toxicology for drugs of abuse, stick urinalysis for glucose, ketones, protein, blood, leucocytes and nitrites, and microscopy for red and white cells. Close agreement was shown for all laboratory analyses except proteinuria, which was underestimated by, on average, 10% after UCP passage. However, stick urinalysis for proteinuria remains sufficiently reliable for clinical use. UCP substantially retain or destroy red and white cells, but stick urinalysis for blood and leucocyte esterase remains reliable. In conclusion, urine samples derived from UCP show good agreement across a clinically relevant range for the biochemical analyses undertaken in this study. Microscopy of UCP samples is unreliable for cellular material but semi-quantitative stick urinalysis for red and white cells is a satisfactory alternative.
The uriscreen test to detect significant asymptomatic bacteriuria during pregnancy.	Asymptomatic bacteriuria (ASB) occurs in 2-11% of pregnancies and it is a clear predisposition to the development of acute pyelonephritis, which, in turn, poses risk to mother and fetus. Treatment of bacteriuria during pregnancy reduces the incidence of pyelonephritis. Therefore, it is recommended to screen for ASB at the first prenatal visit. The gold standard for detection of bacteriuria during pregnancy is urine culture, but this test is expensive, time-consuming, and labor-intensive.
Controlling antimicrobial use and decreasing microbiological laboratory tests for urinary tract infections in spinal-cord-injury patients with chronic indwelling catheters.	The effect of replacing the indwelling catheter of patients suspected of having a urinary tract infection (UTI) before collecting a urine sample on the number of organisms isolated in cultures and on drug and microbiology laboratory costs was studied.
Use of ion trap gas chromatography-multiple mass spectrometry for the detection and confirmation of 3'hydroxystanozolol at trace levels in urine for doping control.	Stanozolol, a synthetic anabolic androgenic steroid, is often abused in sports to enhance performance. Consequently, the anti-doping laboratories daily screen for its metabolites (3'hydroxystanozolol and 4beta hydroxystanozolol) in all urines, mainly by GC-MS, after enzymatic hydrolysis and TMS derivatization. A sensitive and specific method by GC-MS(3) has been developed for the identification in urine of 3'hydroxystanozolol at trace levels. Full mass spectra and diagnostic ions are presented and a case report is commented. In this case, it was possible to attest the presence of a low concentration of stanozolol metabolite in a sample obtained from a competition test. This would have not been possible with other analytical techniques used in the laboratory. Through this case report, it was also possible to demonstrate the importance of sampling and the difficulties that has to face the laboratory when the pre-analytical step is not correctly performed.
Another designer steroid: discovery, synthesis, and detection of 'madol' in urine.	Madol (17alpha-methyl-5alpha-androst-2-en-17beta-ol) was identified in an oily product received by our laboratory in the context of our investigations of designer steroids. The product allegedly contained an anabolic steroid not screened for in routine sport doping control urine tests. Madol was synthesized by Grignard methylation of 5alpha-androst-2-en-17-one and characterized by mass spectrometry and NMR spectroscopy. We developed a method for rapid screening of urine samples by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS) of trimethylsilylated madol (monitoring m/z 143, 270, and 345). A baboon administration study showed that madol and a metabolite are excreted in urine. In vitro incubation with human liver microsomes yielded the same metabolite. Madol is only the third steroid never commercially marketed to be found in the context of performance-enhancing drugs in sports.
Determination of amphetamine, methamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine, 3,4-methylenedioxyethylamphetamine, and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine in urine by online solid-phase extraction and ion-pairing liquid chromatography with detection by electrospray tandem mass spectrometry.	A method using an online solid-phase extraction (SPE) and ion-pairing liquid chromatography with electrospray tandem mass spectrometry (LC/ES-MS/MS) was developed for determination of amphetamine (Amp), methamphetamine (mAmp), 3,4-methylenedioxyamphetamine (MDA), 3,4-methylenedioxyethylamphetamine (MDEA), and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) in urine samples. A SPE cartridge column with both hydrophilic and lipophilic functions was utilized for online extraction. A reversed-phase C18 LC column was employed for LC separation and MS/MS was used for detection. Trifluoroacetic acid was added to the mobile phase as an ion-pairing reagent. This method was fully automated and the extraction and analysis procedures were controlled by a six-port switch valve. Recoveries ranging from 85-101% were measured. Good linear ranges (10-500 ng/mL) for Amp and mAmp were determined. For MDA, MDMA and MDEA, dual linear ranges were obtained from 5-100 and 100-500 ng/mL, respectively. The detection limit of each analytical compound, based on a signal-to-noise ratio of 3, ranged from 1-3 ng/mL. The applicability of this newly developed method was examined by analyzing several urine samples from drug users. Good agreement was obtained between the results from this method and a literature GC/MS method.
Aetiological investigation of sensorineural hearing loss in children.	A survey of aetiological investigations arranged on children with severe/profound bilateral sensorineural hearing impairment by ENT consultants and community paediatricians working in audiology is described. Greater routine use of ECG, urine analysis, and ophthalmological assessment is needed, with a more selective approach to other investigations as recommended by the British Association of Audiological Physicians (BAAP) and the British Association of Community Doctors in Audiology (BACDA).
Application of the standard addition approach for the quantification of urinary benzene.	Urinary benzene is used as biomarker of exposure to evaluate the uptake of this solvent both in non-occupationally exposed population and in benzene-exposed workers. The quantitative determination of benzene in urine is carried out in a three steps procedure: urine collection, sample analysis by head space/solid phase microextraction/gas chromatography/mass spectrometry and analyte quantification. The adopted quantification method influences the initial step, hence the whole procedure. Two quantification approaches were compared as regards precision and accuracy: the calibration curves and the standard addition method. Even if calibration curves obtained by using urine samples from different subjects were always linear, their slopes and intercepts showed noteworthy variations, attributable to the influence of the biological matrix on benzene recovery. The standard addition method showed to be more suitable for compensating matrix effects, and a three-point standard addition protocol was used to quantify benzene in urine samples of 11 benzene-exposed workers (smokers and non-smokers). Urine from occupationally exposed workers was collected before and after work-shift. Besides urinary benzene, the applicability of the method was verified by measuring the urinary concentration of the S-phenylmercapturic acid, a specific benzene metabolite, generally adopted as biomarker in biological monitoring procedures. A similar trend of concentration levels of both analytes measured in urine samples collected before work-shift with respect to the after work-shift ones was found, showing the actual applicability of the standard addition method for biological monitoring purposes.
Urinalysis.	Urinalysis has been a component of patient assessment for centuries and continues to have great utility. The analysis of urine is a useful component in the evaluation of a variety of vision disorders and should be considered an important adjunct to the clinical examination for selected patients. The specimen is readily available, and a basic analysis is inexpensive and simple to perform in the office.
Rapid screening of drugs of abuse and their metabolites by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry: application to urinalysis.	This paper describes a rapid gas chromatographic/mass spectrometric (GC/MS) screening method for the detection of drugs of abuse and/or their metabolites in urine. Synthetic stimulants, opiates, cocaine metabolites, cannabinoids--and specifically the acid metabolite of tetrahydrocannabinol (THC-COOH)--can be simultaneously extracted by a single liquid/liquid separation step, at alkaline pH, and assayed as trimethylsilyl derivatives by GC/MS in SIM (selected ion monitoring) mode. All the analytes show a good linearity (R2 > 0.99 for most of the considered substances) in the range 25-1000 ng/mL, with a good reproducibility of both the retention times (CV% <0.7) and the relative abundances of the characteristic diagnostic ions (CV% <13). The limit of detection (LOD) of the method is 25 ng/mL of target compound in human urine for most of the substances investigated, 3 ng/mL for THC-COOH, and 10 ng/mL for norbuprenorphine. Validation of the method allows its application to different fields of forensic analytical toxicology, including antidoping analysis.
Evaluation of urinary PrPSc as a diagnostic test for sporadic, variant, and familial CJD.	Previously collected urine specimens from 100 patients referred to the UK National CJD Surveillance Unit as suspected cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) were analyzed, testing for abnormal prion protein (PrP(Sc)). In this context, the test had a low sensitivity and was not completely specific for CJD. Additionally, the proteins detected by this assay were not PrP(Sc) but appeared to be immunoglobulins.
A rapid screening approach to metabonomics using UPLC and oa-TOF mass spectrometry: application to age, gender and diurnal variation in normal/Zucker obese rats and black, white and nude mice.	The use of Ultra Performance Liquid Chromatography (UPLC), with a rapid 1.5 minute reversed-phase gradient separation on a 1.7 microm reversed-phase packing material to provide rapid "high throughput" support for metabonomic screening is demonstrated. The peak capacity and the number of marker ions detected using these fast UPLC separations and oa-TOF MS was found to be similar to that generated by conventional HPLC-MS methods with a 10 minute separation. The UPLC-MS methodology was applied to the analysis of urine samples from rodents, including normal and Zucker obese rats and three strains of mice (of both sexes), and was found to provide rapid discrimination between age, strain, gender and diurnal variation.
Monitoring STI prevalence using telephone surveys and mailed urine specimens: a pilot test.	This pilot test assessed the feasibility of a cost effective population based approach to STI monitoring using automated telephone interviews, urine specimen collection kits sent out and returned by US Postal Service mail, and monetary incentives to motivate participation.
High-pressure liquid chromatographic-mass spectrometric determination of sorbic acid in urine: verification of formation of trans,trans-muconic acid.	An LC-MS method is described for the determination of urinary sorbic acid (SA), a common food additive, which allows to measure down to 4 microg/L of the compound. The method involves an acidic hydrolysis followed by solid-phase extraction. The method was applied to two volunteers who ingested SA and to 36 individuals with no dietary restriction. The results confirm that a little aliquot of ingested SA is found in urine also in humans. The significant correlation found between urinary levels of SA and trans,trans-muconic acid (MA) seems to indicate that the measurement of SA in urine could allow to estimate the amount of MA excreted following a dietary intake of SA and, consequently, to enhance the specificity of MA as a biomarker of benzene exposure. A point of clarification in future studies will be the actual chemical form of SA excreted, since our results clearly demonstrate that without hydrolysis only a very little amount of SA can be found even in subjects heavily exposed to SA.
Polymerase chain reaction-based identification of Propionibacterium acnes types isolated from the male urinary tract: evaluation of adolescents, normal adults and men with prostatic pathology.	To assess whether colonization of the male urinary tract with Propionibacterium acnes, in particular types IB and II (which are associated with inflammation in radical prostatectomy specimens and might be involved in the development of prostate cancer), is associated with prostate disease, and thus to develop a urine test to detect men at risk of prostate disease.
Mass spectrometry in sports drug testing: Structure characterization and analytical assays.	Owing to the sensitive, selective, and unambiguous nature of mass spectrometric analyses, chromatographic techniques interfaced to various kinds of mass spectrometers have become the most frequently employed strategy in the fight against doping. To obtain utmost confidence in analytical assays, mass spectrometric characterization of target analytes and typical dissociation pathways have been utilized as basis for the development of reliable and robust screening as well as confirmation procedures. Methods for qualitative and/or quantitative determinations of prohibited low and high molecular weight drugs have been established in doping control laboratories preferably employing gas or liquid chromatography combined with electron, chemical, or atmospheric pressure ionization followed by analyses using quadrupole, ion trap, linear ion trap, or hyphenated techniques. The versatility of modern mass spectrometers enable specific as well as comprehensive measurements allowing sports drug testing laboratories to determine the misuse of therapeutics such as anabolic-androgenic steroids, stimulants, masking agents or so-called designer drugs in athletes' blood or urine specimens, and a selection of recent developments is summarized in this review.
Comparative urine analysis by liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and multivariate statistics: method development, evaluation, and application to proteinuria.	We describe a platform for the comparative profiling of urine using reversed-phase liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) and multivariate statistical data analysis. Urinary compounds were separated by gradient elution and subsequently detected by electrospray Ion-Trap MS. The lower limit of detection (5.7-21 nmol/L), within-day (2.9-19%) and between-day (4.8-19%) analytical variation of peak areas, linearity (R2: 0.918-0.999), and standard deviation for retention time (<0.52 min) of the method were assessed by means of addition of seven 3-8 amino acid peptides (0-500 nmol/L). Relating the amount of injected urine to the area under the curve (AUC) of the chromatographic trace at 214 nm better reduced the coefficient of variation (CV) of the AUC of the total ion chromatogram (CV = 10.1%) than relating it to creatinine (CV = 38.4%). LC-MS data were processed, and the common peak matrix was analyzed by principal component analysis (PCA) after supervised classification by the nearest shrunken centroid algorithm. The feasibility of the method to discriminate urine samples of differing compositions was evaluated by (i) addition of seven peptides at nanomolar concentrations to blank urine samples of different origin and (ii) a study of urine from kidney patients with and without proteinuria. (i) The added peptides were ranked as highly discriminatory peaks despite significant biological variation. (ii) Ninety-two peaks were selected best discriminating proteinuric from nonproteinuric samples, of which 6 were more intense in the majority of the proteinuric samples. Two of these 6 peaks were identified as albumin-derived peptides, which is in accordance with the early rise of albumin during glomerular proteinuria. Interestingly, other albumin-derived peptides were nondiscriminatory indicating preferential proteolysis at some cleavage sites.
Immobilization of grain-sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, var. CSH-14) leaf oxalate oxidase on to a modified mica chip and its application in the determination of urinary oxalate.	A new method is described for immobilization of oxalate oxidase purified from grain sorghum (Sorghum bicolor, var. CSH-14) leaves on to mica chip through MnCl(2) x 4H(2)O coupling with a conjugation yield of 0.36 mg of protein/cm(2) and 65.3% retention of the initial activity of the free enzyme. The immobilized enzyme showed maximum activity at pH 6.5 when incubated at 40 degrees C for 15 min. K(m) for oxalate was decreased from 0.7 to 0.53 mM after immobilization. The immobilized enzyme lost 12% of its initial activity after storage at 4 degrees C in reaction buffer. The oxalate in urine was analysed using this immobilized enzyme. The minimum detection limit was 2.5 mg/l of urine. Analytical recovery of added oxalate (10, 20 and 30 mg/l) was 89.2, 91 and 92.1% respectively. Within- and between-batch coefficients of variation were <1.3% and <4.1% respectively. A good correlation (r=0.92) was found between oxalate values obtained using a commercial enzymic colorimetric kit (Oxalate Urinalysis Diagnostic kit; procedure no. 591-C; Sigma) based on free barley oxalate oxidase and the present method.
Measurement of urine pH for epidemiological studies on bladder cancer.	Methods for efficiently identifying subjects with constantly acidic pH in epidemiological and clinical studies have not been assessed. We recruited 30 volunteers to estimate the minimum number of urine pH measurements using pH strips needed to identify subjects with "constantly acidic urine pH". Spearman's correlation coefficients between urine pH measured with a pH meter and with the four pH strips ranged from 0.94 to 0.95 (p < 0.001 for all four strips). Overall agreement within +/-0.5 pH units between the four strips and the pH meter ranged from 62.2% to 74.4%. When using a spot urine sample from a single morning to classify participants with respect to their urine pH, 80% of individuals fell into the acidic urine pH (pH equal to or lower than 6.0) group. When we required subjects to have urine pH equal to or lower than 6.0 in six consecutive AM spot urine samples and seven spot PM urine samples, only 20% of participants fulfilled this criterion. Measuring urine pH twice a day (early in the morning and early in the evening) during four consecutive days classified individuals in the same way as two daily measurements for one week. A single pH measurement from a spot urine sample is not reliable to identify individuals with constantly acidic pH. Morning and evening urine pH measurements with pH strips during four consecutive days identify individuals with constantly acidic urine pH individuals as well as one week of measurements, and thus might be useful to identify subjects with constantly acidic urine pH in epidemiological and clinical studies.
Consistency of refrigerated pathological urine sediment.	Urinalysis is a routine medical laboratory investigation, as examination of the urine plays a vital role in the diagnosis of kidney diseases. Sometimes the identification of urine sediment needs confirmation by expertise in clinical microscopy, and this is difficult in the far rural area in the developing countries. Here, the author evaluated a feasibility to use refrigerated urine sediment for repeated analysis. In this work, the author found that it is feasible to use refrigerated urine sediment for repeated analysis. The good correlation (> 0.9) can be seen for the epithelium, red blood cell, and cast but not for the white blood cell. The consistency of the repeat analysis results are an orderly decrease from epithelium (4 days), red blood cell (3 days), white blood cell (3 days), and cast (2 days). However, as time passes, reliability decreases.
Rapid and sensitive electrophoresis of urinary protein clearly reveals the pathophysiological feature of renal diseases.	The diagnostic approach for renal diseases with the electrophoretic pattern of urinary protein on cellulose acetate (CA) membrane differentiates the causes of proteinuria. However, this method has not been used routinely because of its difficulty in obtaining a clear image. This study was performed in order to re-evaluate this method with an improved system.
Preparation of antibodies for the designer steroid tetrahydrogestrinone and development of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for human urine analysis.	A highly sensitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) has been developed for tetrahydrogestrinone (THG), the new designer anabolic steroid responsible for the well-known Balco scandal announced in year 2003. Antibodies have been raised against 18a-homo-pregna-4,9,11-trien-17beta-ol-3-carboxymethyl oxime coupled to horseshoe crab hemocyanin. The hapten has been synthesized from gestrinone by controlled reduction of the triple bond of the ethinyl group at position C-17, without affecting the double bonds of the steroidal rings, followed by reaction of the keto group at C-3 with (carboxymethoxy)amine hemihydrochloride to form the oxime bond. The antisera obtained has been used in combination with 18a-homo-pregna-4,9,11-trien-17beta-ol-20-yn-3-carboxymethyl oxime, a hapten derivative of gestrinone, coupled to bovine serum albumin to establish a competitive ELISA. Under the conditions used, THG can be detected in buffer with a limit of detection (LOD) of 0.045 +/- 0.015 microg L(-1) (N = 9). The assay is very selective since other steroids assessed are not recognized. Preliminary experiments performed with human urine samples demonstrate that the assay can be applied to the analysis of these samples after a simple sample treatment method reaching a LOD of 0.25 +/- 0.14 microg L(-1). Accuracy is very good as demonstrated by the excellent correlation obtained when analyzing blind spiked urine samples (slope 0.93, R2 = 0.992).
Screening for proteinuria in patients with lupus: a survey of practice preferences among American rheumatologists.	Screening for proteinuria in patients with lupus requires a diagnostic method with adequate validity to detect early disease. Recent studies have called into question the validity of qualitative proteinuria measurements. We set out to assess if American rheumatologists have changed their practice preferences in response to these data.
Indicated vs. routine prenatal urine chemical reagent strip testing.	To determine if urinary tract infection, high blood pressure and gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) are underdiagnosed when prenatal urine testing is done on a clinically indicated vs. routine basis.
Usage of spot urine protein to creatinine ratios in the evaluation of preeclampsia.	The objective of the study was to prospectively compare spot urine protein to creatinine (P:C) ratios with 24 hour urine collections for protein in women being evaluated for preeclampsia.
Determination of synthetic hormones in animal urine by high-performance liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry.	A method was developed for the extraction of stanozolol, taleranol, zeranol, hexestrol, dienestrol, ethynylestradiol, diethylstilbestrol, and trenbolone from animal urine. The analytes were extracted from the matrix by enzymatic hydrolysis, solid-phase extraction, and liquid-liquid extraction. Detection and quantitation were performed on a high-performance liquid chromatography system coupled to a triple quadrupole mass spectrometer. The identification criteria met the European Union regulations. Validation of this method established a decision limit between 0.2 and 0.9 microg/L and a detection capability between 0.3 and 1.0 microg/L, depending on the analyte.
Optimizing protein recovery for urinary proteomics, a tool to monitor renal transplantation.	Despite attractiveness of urine for biomarker discovery for systemic and renal diseases, the confounding effect of the high abundance plasma proteins in urine, and a lack of optimization of urine protein recovery methods are bottlenecks for urine proteomics. Three methods were performed and compared for percentage protein yield, yield consistency, ease and cost of analysis: (i) organic solvent precipitation, (ii) dialysis/lyophilization, and (iii) centrifugal filtration. Urine samples were subjected to an immunoaffinity column to deplete high abundance proteins. Difference gel electrophoresis was performed to assess use of depletion strategy for detection of low abundance proteins. Urine from healthy volunteers (n = 10) and kidney transplant recipients with proteinuria (n = 11) were used. Centrifugal filtration performed best for analysis ease and yield consistency. Highest percentage yield was obtained from dialysis/lyophilization but was laborious and residual salt interfered with subsequent gel electrophoresis. Organic solvent precipitation was inexpensive, but suffered from varying yield consistency. Increased spot intensity for some low abundance and previously undetected proteins were noted after depletion of high abundance proteins. In conclusion, we compare the pros and cons of different protein recovery methods and reveal an increase in the dynamic range of protein detection after depletional strategy that could be critical for biomarker discovery, particularly with reference to processing human study samples from clinical trials.
Urinary iodine in 24 h is associated with natriuresis and is better reflected by an afternoon sample.	We aimed to assess the extent of variability in urinary iodine (UI) within a day, to determine the period of the day when UI was better associated with the UI in 24 h, and to study the relationship between UI and urinary sodium.
Eicosapentaenoic-acid-derived isoprostanes: synthesis and discovery of two major isoprostanes.	The stereospecific synthesis of two all-syn-EPA-derived isoprostanes (iPs), 5-epi-8,12-iso-iPF(3alpha)-VI 17 and 8,12-iso-iPF(3alpha)-VI 18, has been accomplished. These two synthetic probes have been used to discover and identify their presence in human urine. The eventual quantitative measurement of these two iPs may be a valuable index of oxidative stress in people with eicosapentaenoic acid- (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid- (DHA) enriched phospholipids.
Derivatized mesoporous silica beads for MALDI-TOF MS profiling of human plasma and urine.	Matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS) is a promising tool for large-scale screening of body fluids for the early detection of human diseases. Proteins, peptides, and metabolites present in cells, tissues, or in body fluids constitute the molecular signatures of individuals. The design and generation of material-based platforms for capturing molecular signatures from body fluids has gained increasing interest in recent years. Highly selective materials are attractive candidates for a wide range of applications in biofluid proteomics. We have therefore developed a procedure based on mesoporous silica particles for the selective binding and enrichment of low molecular weight plasma/serum proteins by MALDI MS analysis ( Terracciano, R., Gaspari, M., Testa, F., Pasqua, L., Cuda G., Tagliaferri, P., Cheng, M. C., Nijdam, A. J., Petricoin, E. F., Liotta, L. A., Ferrari, M., and Venuta, S. ( 2006 ) Selective binding and enrichment for low-molecular weight biomarker molecules in human plasma after exposure to nanoporous silica particles . Proteomics 6, 3243-3250 ). Mesoporous silica beads (MSB) are able to harvest peptides from plasma and serum by means of nanosized porous channels with high surface area, while excluding large size proteins. Moreover, the absorption properties can be modified since the pore walls can be functionalized with different chemical species due to the high concentration of silanol groups at the surface. In this study, we performed derivatization of MSB with different functionalities, and we evaluated the derivatized materials for plasma and urine peptidomic profiling. Aminopropyl, N-(2-aminoethyl)-3-aminopropyl, and N,N,N' tris-carboxymethyl ethylene diamine, have been introduced onto the mesoporous silica surfaces in order to modulate selective peptide enrichment. We also explored various experimental conditions in order to optimize the performance of chemically modified MSB in the peptide profiling of human plasma and urine. These new derivatized mesoporous surfaces, in addition to the previous nonderivatized MSB, constitute an extended and reliable platform of five distinct chromatographic phases with defined surface functionality and porosity. Several plasma and urine peptides were extracted from derivatized MSB and then profiled by MALDI-TOF MS. The reproducibility of sample preparation by different functionalized beads was evaluated via three replicate analyses of plasma and urine samples. Lower coefficients of variation in the mass values and peak intensities resulted for plasma in comparison to those of urine samples; nevertheless, these where satisfactory for diagnostic purposes. For human urine, a linear correlation was found between spiked peptide concentrations and their peak areas (R(2) > 0.98) with a limit of detection in the low-nanogram per milliliter range, thus confirming the high sensitivity of the methodology, previously demonstrated for human plasma. Different panels of peptide repertoires have thus been collected from highly porous substrates chemically conjugated with different functional groups, and these may be used in biomarker discovery for disease diagnosis.
Quantitation of folates and their catabolites in blood plasma, erythrocytes, and urine by stable isotope dilution assays.	New stable isotope dilution assays were developed for the simultaneous quantitation of the folates 5-methyltetrahydrofolic acid, 5-formyltetrahydrofolic acid, tetrahydrofolic acid, 10-formylfolic acid, and folic acid as well as for their catabolites para-aminobenzoylglutamate (pABG) and acetyl-para-aminobenzoylglutamate (ApABG) in clinical samples. The methods were based on cleanup by strong anion exchange followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) detection. Deuterated analogues of the folates and [(13)C(5)]-labeled isotopologues of the catabolites were applied as the internal standards in stable isotope dilution assays. Extraction in 4-morpholineethanesulfonic acid (MES) buffer at pH 5.0 ensured the optimum stability of folates and, in combination with solid-phase extraction (SPE) based on strong anion exchange, resulted in higher recoveries compared with other combinations of extraction buffers and SPE. The method was sensitive enough to detect pABG in plasma generally and unmetabolized folic acid in the plasma of a volunteer after oral dosage of an aqueous folic acid solution. The sum of folate catabolites increased by a factor of 2 in the urine of the latter volunteer, compared with that resulting when only water was dosed.
A sample preparation protocol for 1H nuclear magnetic resonance studies of water-soluble metabolites in blood and urine.	We describe a general protocol for preparing protein-containing biofluids for (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) metabolomic studies. In this protocol, untreated samples are diluted in deuterated solvents to precipitate proteins and recover metabolites quantitated relative to standard reference compounds such as 3-trimethylsilylpropionic acid (TSP) and 2,2-dimethyl-2-silapentane-5-sulfonic acid (DSS). The efficacy of this protocol was tested using a bovine serum albumin/metabolite mix and human serum samples. This sample preparation method can be readily applied to any protein-containing biofluid for (1)H NMR studies.
High-throughput matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time-of-flight mass spectrometry method for quantification of hepcidin in human urine.	Levels of the peptide hormone hepcidin negatively correlate with systemic iron status and are increased in disorders in which iron metabolism is secondarily disregulated, such as the anemia of chronic disease. Consequently, the ability to measure hepcidin in the clinical setting may have diagnostic value for a broad range of indications. We describe a novel quantitative matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization-time-of-flight (MALDI-TOF) mass spectrometry assay for hepcidin in human urine which involves (i) direct enrichment from minute volumes (5 microL) of minimally treated urine on the surface of a functionalized chip, (ii) quantification by the use of a stable isotope labeled internal standard, and (iii) analysis by MALDI-TOF. Performance features include a wide linear range (1-1000 nM; LOQ 2.5 nM), high accuracy (90-110% recovery) and precision (intraday CV 12.11%; interday CV 13.21%), and a strong correlation upon interlaboratory cross validation with an existing immunoassay. The assay is simple, accurate, and efficient, and the high-throughput performance features of the assay make large-scale clinical research studies feasible.
Pharmacokinetics of metronidazole in pregnant patients with bacterial vaginosis.	The present study was undertaken to investigate the pharmacokinetics of metronidazole in pregnant patients with bacterial vaginosis.
Mouse phenotyping.	Model organisms like the mouse are important tools to learn more about gene function in man. Within the last 20 years many mutant mouse lines have been generated by different methods such as ENU mutagenesis, constitutive and conditional knock-out approaches, knock-down, introduction of human genes, and knock-in techniques, thus creating models which mimic human conditions. Due to pleiotropic effects, one gene may have different functions in different organ systems or time points during development. Therefore mutant mouse lines have to be phenotyped comprehensively in a highly standardized manner to enable the detection of phenotypes which might otherwise remain hidden. The German Mouse Clinic (GMC) has been established at the Helmholtz Zentrum Mnchen as a phenotyping platform with open access to the scientific community (www.mousclinic.de; [1]). The GMC is a member of the EUMODIC consortium which created the European standard workflow EMPReSSslim for the systemic phenotyping of mouse models (http://www.eumodic.org/[2]).
Quantitative determination of sarcosine and related compounds in urinary samples by liquid chromatography with tandem mass spectrometry.	The current prostate cancer (PCa) diagnosis, based on the blood prostate-specific antigen (PSA) level measurement, is not a precise science. The widely used PSA biomarker for PCa has poor sensitivity and specificity and often leads to false-negative and false-positive test results. Recently, sarcosine, proline, kynurenine, uracil, and glycerol 3-phosphate were found in higher concentrations in metastatic prostate cancer urine samples. By measuring all five of these metabolites, doctors may be better able to diagnose prostate cancer with high accuracy. However, there is no method reported for simultaneous detection of these compounds in urine samples. In this study, a novel method was developed to separate and quantify six urinary metabolites including creatinine in urine samples by using liquid chromatography/tandem mass spectrometry. Chromatographic separations of the analytes were carried out using a phenyl-hexyl column with 0.1% formic acid in water and acetonitrile, respectively, under a gradient program. The six metabolites were detected in the multiple reaction monitoring modes with the ESI-positive mode. The linear range of the analytes was from 0.003 to 40 mol/L. The limit of detection was from 0.05 to 4 nmol/L, and the limit of quantification ranged from 3 to 20 nmol/L. The factors affecting the separation and quantification of the six metabolites, such as mobile-phase and MS conditions, were also investigated. The technique developed in this study is simple, fast, sensitive, and selective. It can be used for quantifying these six metabolites in urine samples for potential early cancer screening. 
Diagnosis of glutaric aciduria type 1 by measuring 3-hydroxyglutaric acid in dried urine spots by liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry.	Accumulation of glutaric acid (GA) and 3-hydroxyglutaric acid (3HGA) in body fluids is the biochemical hallmark of type 1 glutaric aciduria (GA1), a disorder characterized by acute striatal degeneration and a subsequent dystonia. To date, methods for quantification of 3HGA are mainly based on stable isotope dilution gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) and require extensive sample preparation. Here we describe a simple liquid chromatography tandem MS (LC-MS/MS) method to quantify this important metabolite in dried urine spots (DUS). This method is based on derivatization with 4-[2-(N,N-dimethylamino)ethylaminosulfonyl]-7-(2-aminoethylamino)-2,1,3-benzoxadiazole (DAABD-AE). Derivatization was adopted to improve the chromatographic and mass spectrometric properties of the studied analytes. Derivatization was performed directly on a 3.2-mm disc of DUS as a sample without extraction. Sample mixture was heated at 60C for 45 min, and 5 l of the reaction solution was analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Reference ranges obtained were in excellent agreement with the literature. The method was applied retrospectively for the analysis of DUS samples from established low- and high-excreter GA1 patients as well as controls (n = 100). Comparison of results obtained versus those obtained by GC-MS was satisfactory (n = 14). In populations with a high risk of GA1, this approach will be useful as a primary screening method for high- or low-excreter variants. In these populations, however, DUS analysis should not be implemented before completing a parallel comparative study with the standard screening method (i.e., molecular testing). In addition, follow-up DUS GA and 3HGA testing of babies with elevated dried blood spot C5DC acylcarnitines will be useful as a first-tier diagnostic test, thus reducing the number of cases requiring enzymatic and molecular analyses to establish or refute the diagnosis of GA1.
Urine bisphenol-A (BPA) level in relation to semen quality.	To determine whether urine bisphenol-A (BPA) levels are associated with lower semen quality.
'False-positive' and 'false-negative' test results in clinical urine drug testing.	The terms 'false-positive' and 'false-negative' are widely used in discussions of urine drug test (UDT) results. These terms are inadequate because they are used in different ways by physicians and laboratory professionals and they are too narrow to encompass the larger universe of potentially misleading, inappropriate and unexpected drug test results. This larger universe, while not solely comprised of technically 'true' or 'false' positive or negative test results, presents comparable interpretive challenges with corresponding clinical implications. In this review, we propose the terms 'potentially inappropriate' positive or negative test results in reference to UDT results that are ambiguous or unexpected and subject to misinterpretation. Causes of potentially inappropriate positive UDT results include in vivo metabolic conversions of a drug, exposure to nonillicit sources of a drug and laboratory error. Causes of potentially inappropriate negative UDT results include limited assay specificity, absence of drug in the urine, presence of drug in the urine, but below established assay cutoff, specimen manipulation and laboratory error. Clinical UDT interpretation is a complicated task requiring knowledge of recent prescription, over-the-counter and herbal drug administration, drug metabolism and analytical sensitivities and specificities.
Urgent metabolic service improves survival in long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase (LCHAD) deficiency detected by symptomatic identification and pilot newborn screening.	Long-chain 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase deficiency (LCHADD) is a fatty acid oxidation disorder with especially high mortality and uncertain long-term outcome. The aim of the study was to analyze the influence of diagnostic approach on survival in 59 affected children. Referral to a metabolic center was replaced over time by urine/blood testing in centralized metabolic laboratory (selective screening) and by pilot tandem mass spectrometry newborn screening (NBS). Molecular analysis revealed the prevalent mutation in the HADHA gene in all 58 examined cases. Twenty patients died. The number of detections and number of deaths were respectively 9 and 4 (44%) in the patients recognized by differential diagnosis, 28 and 9 (32%) - by selective screening, and 11 and 1 (9%) - by NBS. In 80% of cases the death occurred before or within 3 weeks from the identification. Urgent and active metabolic service remarkably influenced the surviving. The current age of 39 survivors is 0.5 to 23 yrs (mean 7.2 yrs). The disease frequency estimated on the patients number was 1: 115 450, whereas in the pilot NBS - 1: 109 750 (658 492 neonates tested). Interestingly, the phenylalanine level in asymptomatic neonates frequently exceeded the cut-off values.
Is routine TORCH screening and urine CMV culture warranted in small for gestational age neonates?	congenital infections are associated with a wide variety of clinical symptoms, including small for gestational age (SGA).
Fluorometric determination of 2-oxoadipic acid, a common metabolite of tryptophan and lysine, by high-performance liquid chromatography with pre-chemical derivatization.	2-Oxoadipic acid, a key metabolite of tryptophan and lysine, reacted with 1,2-diamino-4,5-methylenebenzene in an acidic solution to produce a fluorescent derivative. The reaction product was separated using a Tosoh ODS-80Ts column with 20 mmol/L of KHPO-KHPO buffer (pH 7.0) containing 26% methanol at a flow rate 0.8 mL/min. The excitation wavelength of detection was 367 nm, and the emission wavelength was 446 nm. The limit of quantification was 1 pmol per injection, sufficiently sensitive for the determination of 2-oxoadipic acid in human and experimental animal urine.
UF-1000i flow cytometry is an effective screening method for urine specimens.	This study was undertaken to evaluate the UF-1000i (UF) flow cytometer to count urine constituents including bacteria. The objective was to screen urine samples and determine what white blood cell (WBC) and/or bacteria screening criteria would minimize the number of specimens cultured yet ensuring that all true positives were cultured. UF screening and culture on CHROMagar Orientation (CO) medium were performed on 2496 specimens. Various combinations of WBC/bacterial counts were assessed as screening criteria and correlated with significant growth on CO medium. A bacterial count of 20 from UF gave an overall screening sensitivity of 92.6%, allowing 35% of specimens to be screened out and not cultured. The sensitivity was 99.2% and 85.0% for Gram-negative and Gram-positive organisms, respectively, using the same bacterial count. Our study indicated that UF was a simple, rapid, and reliable method for urine screening when the bacterial count of 20 was used as the sole screening criterion.
The characteristics of new semi-quantitative method for diagnosing proteinuria by using random urine samples.	We assessed the characteristics of the new semi-quantitative test paper (Clinitek ATLAS Pro(12)) using random urine samples. Three hundred urine samples were analyzed using either the new test paper, conventional dipsticks, quantitative (P/C ratio), or immunological quantitative methods (A/C ratio). Our study showed that the new test paper is highly sensitive and specific for the detection of urinary protein. The new test paper also detected the urine protein more accurately than the conventional test and has a lower false-positive rate. In addition, the new test paper detected 14 of the 300 patients (4.7%) as dilute urine samples needing reassessment. Seventeen of the 300 samples tested were negative with conventional dipsticks but positive with the new test paper. The new semi-quantitative test paper not only has higher sensitivity than the conventional dipstick method, but also has potential to detect dilute samples.
Acute kidney injury]	New guidelines of the "Kidney Disease: Improving Global Outcome" (KDIGO) working group standardize the definition of acute kidney injury (AKI) and acute kidney disease (AKD) allowing the assessment of prognosis and efficacy of prophylactic and therapeutic measures in different patient cohorts. The degree of severity and the duration of acute kidney injury are critical factors for the development of chronic kidney disease and mortality. The achievement of optimal fluid volumes is a cornerstone in the treatment during the early phase of AKI, while volume overload should be avoided in the late phase of established AKI. Recently employed biomarkers are promising for the early detection and prognosis of AKI, but cannot yet be used as routine tests. Microscopic urinalysis, a very old and cost-effective diagnostic measure, provides valuable informations about the severity and the course of AKI.
A new automated urine fentanyl immunoassay: technical performance and clinical utility for monitoring fentanyl compliance.	Opiate and other drugs of abuse screening assays have been available for many years, and successfully utilized for monitoring patient medication compliance and for detecting misuse. However, immunoassays designed to rapidly detect the highly potent synthetic opioid, fentanyl, have not been available.
Rapid and selective determination of urinary lysozyme based on magnetic molecularly imprinted polymers extraction followed by chemiluminescence detection.	A rapid, low cost and selective chemiluminescence method coupled with magnetic molecularly imprinted polymers extraction was developed to detect lysozyme in human urine samples. Compared with traditional solid-phase extraction, this method could achieve selective extraction for the lysozyme, avoid the time consuming elution from a column or centrifugation steps, and then showed great potential in the high-throughput screening of clinical samples. The parameters affecting the performance of extraction and chemiluminescence were investigated. Under optimal conditions, the whole analytical procedure was completed within 12 min and spiked recovery ranged from 90.1% to 103.7% (R.S.D.6.7%). The limit of quantitation was 5 ng mL(-1). Furthermore, the results obtained by the proposed method were linearly correlated to those by commercial lysozyme detection kit (r=0.9595). Finally, the validated method was used to measure the urinary lysozyme of renal disease patients and healthy controls. The results confirmed the reliability and practicality of the protocol and revealed a good perspective of this method for biological sample analysis.
Interferences with urine drug screens.	Qualitative urine drug assays are frequently used in conjunction with opioid contracts as a means of monitoring use of prescribed controlled substances as well as concurrent use of illicit substances in patients receiving opioids for chronic nonmalignant pain (CNMP) management. Appropriate use of these screening tests, in conjunction with opioid contracts, may provide the health care provider with additional information needed to safely prescribe opioids for selected individuals with CNMP. It is important for the practitioner caring for patients subject to random urine drug screening to understand interferences with the commonly used urine drug assays, as well as knowing options to confirm contested test results. We reviewed the literature on urine drug assay test interferences and present a summary of this information in this article.
The frequency of Hashimoto thyroiditis in children and the relationship between urinary iodine level and Hashimoto thyroiditis.	The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of thyroid autoimmunity in second grade primary school students and to examine the relationship between iodine and Hashimoto thyroiditis (HT). This was a cohort study performed with 1000 students. Urinary iodine levels, antithyroid peroxidase (anti-TPO) and antithyroglobulin (anti-Tg) antibodies were determined in all children. Children with anti-TPO or anti-Tg antibody positivity or with goiter were summoned for detailed examinations. In total, 36 cases (3.6%) were diagnosed as HT. The goiter frequency was found in 17.5% of the whole cohort. Additionally, iodine deficiency was found in 64.2% of all children. The median urinary iodine excretion was determined as 132 microg/L (range 382 microg/L) in the HT group, whereas it was 73 microg/L (range 390 microg/L) in children with goiter but without HT and 81 microg/L (range 394 microg/L) in normal children. The urinary iodine level of HT cases was significantly higher than the other two groups (p < 0.001). HT was also determined in 2% of patients with low urinary iodine levels, in 6.2% of patients with normal urinary iodine levels, and in 7.5% of patients with high urinary iodine levels. Our data demonstrates the close relationship between excessive iodine levels and autoimmunity.
Assessment of proteinuria.	Proteinuria is a strong predictor of adverse cardiovascular and kidney events, and an accurate assessment of proteinuria is important for the evaluation and management of CKD. Total urinary protein can be assessed using dipstick, precipitation, and electrophoresis methods. Urinary albumin, the predominant urinary protein in most proteinuric kidney diseases, can be assessed using an albumin-specific dipstick, immunochemical techniques, and size-exclusion high-performance liquid chromatography. Urine albumin may be immune-reactive, immune-unreactive, fragmented, and biochemically modified, and laboratory techniques have variable abilities to detect different types of albumin. Urine specimen for proteinuria assessment can either be obtained from a timed-collection or a spot urine sample. Spot urine protein- or albumin-to-creatinine ratios are preferred to a 24-hour urine sample in routine practice. Assessment of albuminuria rather than proteinuria is more clinically meaningful in patients with diabetic kidney disease, and proteinuria and albuminuria assessments both have a role in nondiabetic kidney disease and in general population screening. As measurement and sampling procedures for proteinuria assessment have yet not been standardized, it is important for physicians to be aware of different types of urinary proteins, albumins, laboratory techniques, and urine sampling methods.
Urinary C-peptide of insulin as a non-invasive marker of nutritional status: some practicalities.	Nutritional status is a critical element of many aspects of animal ecology, but has proven difficult to measure non-invasively in studies of free-ranging animals. Urinary C-peptide of insulin (UCP), a small polypeptide cleaved in an equimolar ratio from proinsulin when the body converts it to insulin, offers great promise in this regard, and recent studies of several non-human primate species have utilized it with encouraging results. Despite this, there are a number of unresolved issues related to the collection, processing, storage and transport of samples. These include: contamination of samples on collection (most commonly by dirt or faeces), short-term storage before returning to a field station, differences in processing and long-term storage methods (blotting onto filter paper, freezing, lyophilizing), and for frozen samples, transportation while keeping samples frozen. Such issues have been investigated for urine samples in particular with respect to their effects on steroid hormone metabolites, but there has been little investigation of their effects on UCP measurement. We collected samples from captive macaques, and undertook a series of experiments where we systematically manipulated samples and tested the effects on subsequent UCP measurements. We show that contamination of urine samples by faeces led to a decrease in UCP levels by >90%, but that contamination with dirt did not have substantial effects. Short-term storage (up to 12 hours) of samples on ice did not affect UCP levels significantly, but medium-term storage (up to 78 hours) did. Freezing and lyophilization for long-term storage did not affect UCP levels, but blotting onto filter paper did. A transportation simulation showed that transporting frozen samples packed in ice and insulated should be acceptable, but only if it can be completed within a period of a few days and if freeze-thaw can be avoided. We use our data to make practical recommendations for fieldworkers.
Automated solid-phase extraction-liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry analysis of 6-acetylmorphine in human urine specimens: application for a high-throughput urine analysis laboratory.	An automated solid-phase extraction-liquid chromatography- tandem mass spectrometry (SPE-LC-MS-MS) method using the Spark Holland Symbiosis Pharma SPE-LC coupled to a Waters Quattro Micro MS-MS was developed for the analysis of 6-acetylmorphine (6-AM) in human urine specimens. The method was linear (R = 0.9983) to 100 ng/mL, with no carryover at 200 ng/mL. Limits of quantification and detection were found to be 2 ng/mL. Interrun precision calculated as percent coefficient of variation (%CV) and evaluated by analyzing five specimens at 10 ng/mL over nine batches (n = 45) was 3.6%. Intrarun precision evaluated from 0 to 100 ng/mL ranged from 1.0 to 4.4%CV. Other opioids (codeine, morphine, oxycodone, oxymorphone, hydromorphone, hydrocodone, and norcodeine) did not interfere in the detection, quantification, or chromatography of 6-AM or the deuterated internal standard. The quantified values for 41 authentic human urine specimens previously found to contain 6-AM by a validated gas chromatography (GC)-MS method were compared to those obtained by the SPE-LC-MS-MS method. The SPE-LC-MS-MS procedure eliminates the human factors of specimen handling, extraction, and derivatization, thereby reducing labor costs and rework resulting from human error or technique issues. The time required for extraction and analysis was reduced by approximately 50% when compared to a validated 6-AM procedure using manual SPE and GC-MS analysis.
Simultaneous quantification of 19 drugs/metabolites in urine important for pain management by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry.	Monitoring pain management drugs and frequently abused drugs is important for physicians to assess patient compliance. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry offers high specificity needed for this purpose. In this report, a novel liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry method for simultaneously monitoring 19 drugs/metabolites in urine was developed and validated.
Screening urine analysis before bacille Calmette-Gurin instillation does not reduce the rate of infectious complications.	Study Type - Therapy (case series) Level of Evidence 4 What's known on the subject? and What does the study add? Infectious complication is a risk of bacille Calmette-Gurin instillation. Urine analysis in asymptomatic patients has been used as a measure to reduce infections. This study suggests that screening urine analysis prior to bacille Calmette-Gurin instillation did not affect the rate of urinary tract infections.
Collection and storage requirements for urinary kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) measurements in humans.	Urinary kidney injury molecule-1 (KIM-1) is a recently discovered biomarker for early renal damage. However, little is known about the collection and storage requirements prior to its measurement in human urine.
A HPLC-MS method to detect and quantify guanfacine in urine.	Guanfacine, an 2-adrenergic 2A)agonist long indicated to treat hypertension, is now being used to treat attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adolescents. This new therapeutic use may require urine testing to document compliance or abuse. A simple rapid high pressure liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS) method to detect and quantify guanfacine in urine following therapeutic administration is presented.
Rapid and direct detection of Invivo kinetics of pathogenic bacterial infection from mouse blood and urine.	This study demonstrates the first use of matrix assisted laser desorption/ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS) to trace the Invivo infection kinetics of the well known deadly pathogen Staphylococcus aureus in Swiss albino mice. The growth curve of the bacteria from the point of injection (200L of bacterial suspension (10(8)cfu/mL)) into the mouse blood till mortality (death) was periodically analyzed using the plate counting method and MALDI-MS. Bacterial counts of 10(3)cfu/mL were observed in the log phase of the growth curve in the blood and 10(2)cfu/mL were observed in the urine samples. Death occurred in the log phase of the growth curve, where the bacterial counts showed steady increase. In other cases, the bacteria counts started decreasing after 48h and by 96h the bacteria got totally eliminated from the mouse and these mice survived. Direct MALDI-MS was not feasible for tracking the bacteria in the infected blood. However, ionic liquid 1-Butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate was successful in enabling bacterial detection amidst the strong blood peaks. But, in the case of the urine analysis, it was observed that direct MALDI-MS was adequate to enable detection. The results obtained prove the efficacy of MALDI-MS for analyzing pathogenic bacteria in clinical samples. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Proteomics: The clinical link.
On-site drugs of abuse urinary screening tests for the management of opiate-addicted patients: a survey among French general practitioners.	In France, opiate-addicted patients are mainly managed by general practitioners (GPs). Because on-site abuse drugs urinary screening tests (ODUTs) are now on the market, we investigated French GPs' knowledge and practices concerning drug tests with a focus on ODUTs. We conducted a descriptive cross-sectional study in ambulatory practice. Postal questionnaires were sent to a random sample of GPs in the Midi-Pyrnes area of France in December 2009. Of the 482 GPs in the sample, 116 (24.1%) regularly treated opiate- addicted patients. Only 31 of them (26.7%) used drug tests and 4 of them (3.4%) performed ODUTs in their consultation rooms. Most of the GPs did not perform ODUTs because they were unaware of whether such tests were reliable or available. Many French GPs treating opiate-addicted patients regularly did not perform ODUTs and lacked knowledge of them.
High diagnostic yield of tuberculosis from screening urine samples from HIV-infected patients with advanced immunodeficiency using the Xpert MTB/RIF assay.	We determined the diagnostic yield of the Xpert MTB/RIF assay for tuberculosis (TB) when testing small volumes of urine from ambulatory HIV-infected patients before starting antiretroviral therapy in South Africa. Compared with a gold standard of sputum culture, the sensitivity of urine Xpert among those with CD4 cell counts of <50, 50-100, and >100 cells per microliter were 44.4%, 25.0%, and 2.7% (P = 0.001), respectively. Urine Xpert testing provides a means of rapid TB diagnosis in patients with advanced immunodeficiency and poor prognosis. These data are indicative of high rates of TB dissemination and renal involvement in this clinical population.
Assessment of a four hour delay for urine samples stored without preservatives at room temperature for urinalysis.	To determine whether urine storage at room temperature for up to 2h versus 4h changes urinalysis results.
Evaluation of methods for rapid microalbuminuria screening in kidney diseased patients]	One of the criteria for chronic kidney disease detection is determination of microalbuminuria.
Quantitative selenium speciation in human urine by using liquid chromatography-electrospray tandem mass spectrometry.	A liquid chromatography-electrospray-tandem mass spectrometry (ES-MS/MS) method was developed for the speciation analysis of four organic selenium species of relevance to human urinary metabolism, namely trimethylselenomium ion (TMSe(+)), selenomethionine (SeMet) and the two selenosugars, methyl 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-1-seleno--D-galactos/-glucos-amine (SeGalNAc and SeGluNAc, respectively). Their chromatographic separation was achieved by using a cation exchange pre-column coupled in-series with a reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography column, along with an isocratic mobile phase. Online detection was performed using ES-MS/MS in selective reaction monitoring mode. SeGalNAc was detected as the major human urinary metabolite of selenium in the samples analysed, whereas TMSe(+) was detected in the urine of one volunteer before and after receiving a selenium supplement. SeMet was not detected as a urine excretory metabolite in this study. Spiking experiments performed with the urine samples revealed significant signal suppression caused by coeluting matrix constituents. To overcome such interferences, isotopically labelled (13)CD(3)(82)SeGalNAc was used as an internal standard, whereas in the absence of an isotopically labelled internal standard for TMSe(+), the standard addition method was applied. Quality control for the accurate quantitation of TMSe(+) and SeGalNAc was carried out by analysing spiked human urine samples with appropriate selenium standards over a concentration range of 10-50 g Se L(-1). The method has achieved a limit of detection in the presence of urine matrix comparable to that of HPLC-inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry for the four selenium species: 1.0 g Se L(-1) for TMSe(+), 5.6 g Se L(-1) for SeMet, and 0.1 g Se L(-1) for both SeGalNAc and SeGluNAc.
Integrated rapid resolution liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometric approach for screening and identification of metabolites of the potential anticancer agent 3,6,7-trimethoxyphenanthroindolizidine in rat urine.	An integrated approach combining data acquisition using MS(E) and multi-period product ion scan (mpMS/MS), with high-resolution characteristic extracted ion chromatograms (hcXIC) as a data mining method, was developed for in vivo drug metabolites screening and identification. This approach is illustrated by analyzing metabolites of a potential anticancer agent, 3,6,7-trimethoxyphenanthroindolizidine (CAT) in rat urine based on rapid resolution liquid chromatography combined with tandem mass spectrometry (RRLC-MS/MS). Untargeted full-scan MS(E) enabled the high-throughput acquisition of potential metabolites, and targeted mpMS/MS contributed to the sensitivity and specificity of the acquisition of molecules of interest. The data processing method hcXIC, based on the structure of CAT, was shown to be highly effective for the metabolite discovery. Through the double-filtering effect of the characteristic ion and accurate mass, conventional extracted ion chromatograms that contained a substantial number of false-positive peaks were simplified into chromatograms essentially free of endogenous interferences. As a result, 21 metabolites were detected in rat urine after oral administration of CAT. Based on the characteristic fragmentation patterns of the phenanthroindolizidine alkaloid, the structures of 9 metabolites were identified. Furthermore, the interpretation of the MS/MS spectra of these metabolites enabled the determination of demethylation position as well as the differentiation between N-oxidized and hydroxylated metabolites.
Permeation profiles of potential urine-borne biomarkers of human presence over brick and concrete.	Headspace solid phase micro-extraction gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (SPME-GC-MS) analysis was performed over an in-house made filling chamber loaded with brick or concrete, mimicking a potential entrapment scene of building collapse following natural or man-made disasters. Permeation profiles of 22 volatile species, released by human urine samples, were quantitatively monitored over the selected debris materials for a time period of 24 hours (LODs ranged from 0.05-0.8 ppb, R(2) varied from 0.991-0.999 and RSDs 3-9%). Ketones were the most abundant constituents of urine vapor with eleven representatives followed by five aldehydes, two furans, two sulphur-containing compounds, one nitrile and one heterocyclic compound. The majority of the detected compounds were found below 10 ppb, with the exception of some ketones including acetone, 2-butanone and 2-pentanone. The influence of debris materials on the permeation profiles of analytes under study depended on their fundamental physicochemical properties. Less volatile and more soluble compounds in urine (ketones and aldehydes) were found to be present for longer time periods in the surroundings of the urine samples than the more volatile and poorly soluble ones (furans, sulphur-containing compounds). More specifically, ketones exhibited longer residence times in the filling chamber and strongly interacted with the debris materials as their molecular masses were increased; their profiles were found to be significantly modified in the presence of concrete. In general, concrete demonstrated a stronger interaction with urine species than brick, affecting the observed concentrations and residence times of released volatiles in the chamber.
Comparison of a commercial urinary neopterin radioimmunoassay with high performance liquid chromatography.	The determination of urinary neopterin using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) has routinely been performed in Innsbruck since the middle of the 1980s. The aim was to compare the HPLC method with a commercially available radioimmunoassay.
Evaluation and comparison of urinary metabolic biomarkers of exposure for the jet fuel JP-8.	A study of workers exposed to jet fuel propellant 8 (JP-8) was conducted at U.S. Air Force bases and included the evaluation of three biomarkers of exposure: S-benzylmercapturic acid (BMA), S-phenylmercapturic acid (PMA), and (2-methoxyethoxy)acetic acid (MEAA). Postshift urine specimens were collected from various personnel categorized as high (n = 98), moderate (n = 38) and low (n = 61) JP-8 exposure based on work activities. BMA and PMA urinary levels were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS/MS), and MEAA urinary levels were determined by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC-MS). The numbers of samples determined as positive for the presence of the BMA biomarker (above the test method's limit of detection [LOD = 0.5 ng/ml]) were 96 (98.0%), 37 (97.4%), and 58 (95.1%) for the high, moderate, and low (control) exposure workgroup categories, respectively. The numbers of samples determined as positive for the presence of the PMA biomarker (LOD = 0.5 ng/ml) were 33 (33.7%), 9 (23.7%), and 12 (19.7%) for the high, moderate, and low exposure categories. The numbers of samples determined as positive for the presence of the MEAA biomarker (LOD = 0.1   g/ml) were 92 (93.4%), 13 (34.2%), and 2 (3.3%) for the high, moderate, and low exposure categories. Statistical analysis of the mean levels of the analytes demonstrated MEAA to be the most accurate or appropriate biomarker for JP-8 exposure using urinary concentrations either adjusted or not adjusted for creatinine; mean levels of BMA and PMA were not statistically significant between workgroup categories after adjusting for creatinine.
Is culture-positive urinary tract infection in febrile children accurately identified by urine dipstick or microanalysis?	Fever from a urinary tract source remains the predominant etiology of serious bacterial infection in children ages 0-36 months. Urine culture is the gold standard for diagnosing a urinary tract infection (UTI); however, urine dipstick (UDip) and urine microanalysis (UA) are typically used real time by Emergency Physicians to diagnose and treat UTIs, as cultures can take days to grow and be available. The purpose of this article is to evaluate the literature on the accuracy and utility of the UDip and UA in this pediatric population.
Specific dietary preferences are linked to differing gut microbial metabolic activity in response to dark chocolate intake.	Systems biology approaches are providing novel insights into the role of nutrition for the management of health and disease. In the present study, we investigated if dietary preference for dark chocolate in healthy subjects may lead to different metabolic response to daily chocolate consumption. Using NMR- and MS-based metabolic profiling of blood plasma and urine, we monitored the metabolic response of 10 participants stratified as chocolate desiring and eating regularly dark chocolate (CD) and 10 participants stratified as chocolate indifferent and eating rarely dark chocolate (CI) to a daily consumption of 50 g of dark chocolate as part of a standardized diet over a one week period. We demonstrated that preference for chocolate leads to different metabolic response to chocolate consumption. Daily intake of dark chocolate significantly increased HDL cholesterol by 6% and decreased polyunsaturated acyl ether phospholipids. Dark chocolate intake could also induce an improvement in the metabolism of long chain fatty acid, as noted by a compositional change in plasma fatty acyl carnitines. Moreover, a relationship between regular long-term dietary exposure to a small amount of dark chocolate, gut microbiota, and phenolics was highlighted, providing novel insights into biological processes associated with cocoa bioactives.
Polyphenols excreted in urine as biomarkers of total polyphenol intake.	Nutritional biomarkers have several advantages in acquiring data for epidemiological and clinical studies over traditional dietary assessment tools, such as food frequency questionnaires. While food frequency questionnaires constitute a subjective methodology, biomarkers can provide a less biased and more accurate measure of specific nutritional intake. A precise estimation of polyphenol consumption requires blood or urine sample biomarkers, although their association is usually highly complex.
3-Methylglutaconic aciduria--lessons from 50 genes and 977 patients.	Elevated urinary excretion of 3-methylglutaconic acid is considered rare in patients suspected of a metabolic disorder. In 3-methylglutaconyl-CoA hydratase deficiency (mutations in AUH), it derives from leucine degradation. In all other disorders with 3-methylglutaconic aciduria the origin is unknown, yet mitochondrial dysfunction is thought to be the common denominator. We investigate the biochemical, clinical and genetic data of 388 patients referred to our centre under suspicion of a metabolic disorder showing 3-methylglutaconic aciduria in routine metabolic screening. Furthermore, we investigate 591 patients with 50 different, genetically proven, mitochondrial disorders for the presence of 3-methylglutaconic aciduria. Three percent of all urine samples of the patients referred showed 3-methylglutaconic aciduria, often in correlation with disorders not reported earlier in association with 3-methylglutaconic aciduria (e.g. organic acidurias, urea cycle disorders, haematological and neuromuscular disorders). In the patient cohort with genetically proven mitochondrial disorders 11% presented 3-methylglutaconic aciduria. It was more frequently seen in ATPase related disorders, with mitochondrial DNA depletion or deletion, but not in patients with single respiratory chain complex deficiencies. Besides, it was a consistent feature of patients with mutations in TAZ, SERAC1, OPA3, DNAJC19 and TMEM70 accounting for mitochondrial membrane related pathology. 3-methylglutaconic aciduria is found quite frequently in patients suspected of a metabolic disorder, and mitochondrial dysfunction is indeed a common denominator. It is only a discriminative feature of patients with mutations in AUH, TAZ, SERAC1, OPA3, DNAJC19 TMEM70. These conditions should therefore be referred to as inborn errors of metabolism with 3-methylglutaconic aciduria as discriminative feature.
Metabolic phenotype of the healthy rodent model using in-vial extraction of dried serum, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid spots.	High-throughput multiplatform metabolomics experiments are becoming an integral part of clinical and systems biology research. Such methods call for the adoption of robust sample storage and transport formats for small volumes of biofluids. One such format is the dried biofluid spot, which combines small volume requirements with easy portability. Here, we describe ultra high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (UHPLC-MS) metabolomics of dried rodent serum, urine, and cerebrospinal fluid spots. An in-vial extraction and UHPLC-MS analysis method was first developed and validated by fingerprinting two test fluids, rat serum and RPMI cell nutrient medium. Data for these extracts were compared in terms of (i) peak area measurements of selected features to assess reproducibility and (ii) total fingerprint variation after data pretreatment. Results showed that percentage peak area variation was found to range between 1.4 and 9.4% relative standard deviation (RSD) for a representative set of molecular features. Upon application of the method to spots bearing serum, urine or cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from healthy rats and mice, a total of 1,182 and 2,309 reproducible molecular features were obtained in positive and negative ionization modes, respectively, of which 610 (positive) and 991 (negative) were found in both rats and mice. Feature matching was used to detect similarities and differences between biofluids, with the biggest overlap found between fingerprints obtained in urine and CSF. Our results thus demonstrate the potential of such direct fingerprinting of dried biofluid spots as a viable alternative to the use of small (10-15 L) volumes of neat biofluids in animal studies.
Role of urine drug screening in the medical clearance of pediatric psychiatric patients: is there one?	Our primary objective was to investigate whether urine drug screen (UDS) results affected the medical management of pediatric psychiatric patients presenting to the pediatric emergency department (ED) for psychiatric evaluation and whether it affected the final disposition of these patients.
Different urinalysis appearances in children with simple and perforated appendicitis.	This study aimed to determine whether routine urinalysis may serve as a tool in discriminating between acute appendicitis and perforated appendicitis in children.
Utility of dipstick urinalysis in peri- and postmenopausal women with irritative bladder symptoms.	Previous studies of dipstick urinalysis (UA) in asymptomatic peri- and postmenopausal women demonstrate poor sensitivity to detect a urinary tract infection (UTI). We hypothesized that sensitivity of this test would be improved in symptomatic peri- and postmenopausal women.
Comparison of wet-mount, Wright-Giemsa and Gram-stained urine sediment for predicting bacteriuria in dogs and cats.	This study assessed the standard urinalysis technique and sediment stain techniques as predictors of bacterial culture results for canine and feline urine. Canine (n = 111) and feline (n = 79) urine samples were evaluated using unstained wet-mount and air-dried Gram and Wright-Giemsa stained sediment; results were compared to aerobic bacterial culture. Eleven canine and 7 feline urine samples were culture positive. Unstained wet-mount and stained sediment had sensitivities of 89% and 83% and specificities of 91% and 99%, respectively. The specificity of using either stain was higher (P < 0.01) than wet-mount examination for detecting bacteriuria. There were significant differences among 3 technologists in detecting true positives (P < 0.01). Association of sediment and culture results used 112 canine and 81 feline samples. There was a negative association (P < 0.01) between lipid detection and wet-mount identification of bacteria. 
1H NMR spectroscopic analysis detects metabolic disturbances in rat urine on acute exposure to heavy metal tungsten alloy based metals salt.	Heavy metal tungsten alloys (HMTAs) have been found to be safer alternatives for making military munitions. Recently, some studies demonstrating the toxic potential of HMTAs have raised concern over the safety issues, and further propose that HMTAs exposure may lead to physiological disturbances as well. To look for the systemic effect of acute toxicity of HMTA based metals salt, (1)H nuclear magnetic resonance ((1)H NMR) spectroscopic profiling of rat urine was carried out. Male Sprague Dawley rats were administered (intraperitoneal) low and high dose of mixture of HMTA based metals salt and NMR spectroscopy was carried out in urine samples collected at 8, 24, 72 and 120 h post dosing (p.d.). Serum biochemical parameters and liver histopathology were also conducted. The (1)H NMR spectra were analysed using multivariate analysis techniques to show the time- and dose-dependent biochemical variations in post HMTA based metals salt exposure. Urine metabolomic analysis showed changes associated with energy metabolism, amino acids, N-methyl nicotinamide, membrane and gut flora metabolites. Multivariate analysis showed maximum variation with best classification of control and treated groups at 24h p.d. At the end of the study, for the low dose group most of the changes at metabolite level reverted to control except for the energy metabolites; whereas, in the high dose group some of the changes still persisted. The observations were well correlated with histopathological and serum biochemical parameters. Further, metabolic pathway analysis clarified that amongst all the metabolic pathways analysed, tricarboxylic acid cycle was most affected at all the time points indicating a switchover in energy metabolism from aerobic to anaerobic. These results suggest that exposure of rats to acute doses of HMTA based metals salt disrupts physiological metabolism with moderate injury to the liver, which might indirectly result from heavy metals induced oxidative stress.
Steady-state and time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopic characterization of urine of healthy subjects and cervical cancer patients.	Steady-state and time-resolved fluorescence spectroscopy were employed in the discrimination of cervical cancer patients from healthy subjects using urine samples. Fluorescence emission at 390 and 440 nm was considered to monitor the fluorescence of indoxyl sulfate and neopterin. Significant spectral differences were observed between healthy and cancer subjects. Different ratio parameters were calculated from the spectral intensity at 280- and 350-nm excitation and were subjected to stepwise linear discriminant analysis. In total, 84.0% of samples were correctly classified at 280 nm and 96.4% were correctly classified at 350 nm. The fluorescence decay kinetics of urine samples at 390-nm emission was best described by bi- exponential fits, whereas the decay characteristics at 440 nm of urine samples was best explained by bi-exponential fits and, in some cases, by tri-exponential fits. However, the decay kinetics of both indoxyl sulfate and neopterin standards was well described by bi-exponential decays. Based on the fluorescence emission characteristics and statistical analysis, the fluorophores indoxyl sulfate, neopterin, and riboflavin may be considered as potential biomarkers for cervical cancer diagnosis.
Performance of a veterinary urine dipstick paddle system for diagnosis and identification of urinary tract infections in dogs and cats.	To evaluate the performance of a veterinary urine dipstick paddle (UDP) for diagnosis and identification of urinary tract infection (UTI) in dogs and cats.
Simultaneous determination of phthalates, their metabolites, alkylphenols and bisphenol A using GC-MS in urine of men with fertility problems.	A GC-MS method was successfully applied to measure simultaneously the concentrations of endocrine disrupting compounds (5 dialkyl phthalates, 9 phthalate monoesters, 3 alkylphenols and bisphenol A) in 136 male urine samples. In the present study the method was validated and concentrations of EDCs were determined. The results were compared with results from other studies. Correlations between endocrine disrupting compounds and also correlations of endocrine disrupting compounds with two semen quality parameters are presented and evaluated. Significant positive correlations were found between almost all the endocrine disrupting compounds. The parameter sum of DEHP (SUM DEHP) was positively correlated to all the endocrine disrupting compounds but negatively to two semen quality parameters. Negative correlations between the endocrine disrupting compounds and the semen quality parameters could indicate that endocrine disrupting compounds could cause reproductive problems by decreasing the semen count and quality. This research will have helped to evaluate human exposure to endocrine disrupting compounds. 
Determination of urinary aromatic amines in smokers and nonsmokers using a MIPs-SPE coupled with LC-MS/MS method.	Urinary aromatic amines (AAs) could be used as biomarkers for human exposure to AAs in cigarette smoke. A liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) method was developed for the determination of urinary AAs (i.e. 1-naphthylamine (1-NA), 2-naphthylamine (2-NA), 3-aminobiphenyl (3-ABP) and 4-aminobiphenyl (4-ABP)) in smokers and nonsmokers. A molecularly imprinted polymers (MIPs) solid phase extraction (SPE) cartridge was applied to purify urine samples and no derivatization reaction was involved. Each analytes used respective stable isotope internal standards, which could well compensate matrix effect. Lower limit of detections (LODs) for four AAs were obtained and in the range of 1.5-5ngL(-1). Recovery ranged from 87.74.5% to 111.36.4% and precision were less than 9.9%. The method was applied to analyze urine samples of 40 smokers and 10 nonsmokers. The 24h urinary excretion amounts of total AAs were higher for smokers compared with nonsmokers. What's more, 1-NA, 3-ABP and 4-ABP excretion amounts showed significant differences (p<0.05) between smokers and nonsmokers. 
Colorimetric determination of sarcosine in urine samples of prostatic carcinoma by mimic enzyme palladium nanoparticles.	The proposed palladium nanoparticles (Pd NPs), which with the catalytic activity similar to the horseradish peroxidase (HRP) mimic enzyme, can effectively catalyze the H2O2-mediated oxidation of 3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine sulfate (TMB) accompanied with a color change from colorless to blue in solution. And as a result, the sensitive detection of sarcosine can be realized by the naked eye observation and ultraviolet spectrophotometry, using Pd NPs as catalyst and TMB as the substrate of the simulation enzyme catalytic reaction. Under the optimal condition, the catalytic system of Pd NPs mimic enzyme can be used for the detection of sarcosine. It has been found that the color change could be clearly observed with the naked eyes, and the absorbance intensity at 653 nm showed a fine linear fitting with the concentration of sarcosine in the range from 0.01 M to 50 M, and the detection limit (3/S) for sarcosine was calculated to be 5.0 nM. In order to evaluate the feasibility and reliability, the method was also used for analyzing concentrations of sarcosine in human urine samples from diagnosed prostate cancer patients and healthy donors. It is expected to provide a convenient and efficient method for indirect evaluation for the diagnosis of prostatic carcinoma (PCa).
Standardization of the values of the concentration of exogenous substances in the urine and expired air]	Workplace pollutants, inhaled by exposed people, can be subsequently excreted by the kidney as biotransformed or by the lung as parent substances. In both cases the concentration values need to be corrected to a given hydration level (the urinary metabolites) or to a value adjusting the effects of respiratory manoeuvres and those of the mixing between alveolar and dead space air (the volatile substances eliminated through the respiratory tract). The classical methods of standardization of urinary values lie in expressing the data as a value adjusted to a constant specific gravity of urine (1.020) or as a creatinine-adjusted concentration (amount of a compound in urine per gram of urinary creatinine). In the light of the recent researches, such adjustment would not be sufficient to correct the effects of the variability due to urinary volume or flow rate. New formulas to standardize the crude values of urinary concentration have been proposed; such adjustment should be more suitable. The concentration of volatile compounds present in expiratory air samples can be modified by hyperventilation or hypoventilation during sampling manoeuvres (1st factor) and by the mixing between dead space and alveolar air (2nd factor). These two factors similarly affect the CO2 concentration or CO2 partial pressure. Then, a proper standardization of the concentration of the pollutants in expired air samples might be their adjustment to a value corresponding to the normal level of alveolar CO2 partial pressure (PACO2 = 40 mmHg) or alveolar CO2 concentration (FACO2 approximately 0.055 or 5.5%).
Detection of Candida casts in experimental renal candidiasis: implications for the diagnosis and pathogenesis of upper urinary tract infection.	The distinction between upper versus lower urinary tract infection in patients with candiduria is a commonly encountered and therapeutically important diagnostic dilemma. Candida casts have been reported in the urine of several individual case reports of human renal candidiasis. The specificity of Candida casts would identify unequivocally a patient with upper urinary tract disease. Little is known, however, about the sensitivity and the formation of Candida casts. We therefore studied the diagnostic yield, methods for detection and pathogenesis of Candida cast formation in serially collected urine specimens from immunologically intact and granulocytopenic rabbit models of haematogenous disseminated candidiasis. Refractile blastoconidia and pseudohyphae of Candida encased in the granular matrix were seen on wet mounts while Candida stained a brilliant red in the fuschia pink tubular matrix on periodic acid Schiff (PAS) stained cytopathology filters. Among 24 rabbits with disseminated candidiasis, 11 (46%) had Candida casts detectable by wet mount and PAS-stained urine filters in comparison to none of 10 non-infected immunologically normal controls (P = 0.014). Fifteen (70%) of 21 episodes of Candida casts were detected within the first 3 days of infection, indicating possible utility in the early diagnosis of renal candidiasis. No Candida casts were detected in the urine of granulocytopenic rabbits, possibly due to the rapid destruction of tubules and abrogation of cast formation. This absence of detectable Candida in eight infected granulocytopenic rabbits differed significantly from that of 24 non-granulocytopenic infected rabbits, in which Candida casts were detected in 11 (46%) (P = 0.029). Candida cast formation occurred predominantly in the cortex. Histopathological examination demonstrated invasion of Candida into the glomerular tufts and peritubular capillaries, followed by development of Candida casts in the proximal and distal tubules, respectively. Detection of renal Candida casts may be a useful diagnostic marker in distinguishing upper versus lower urinary tract candidiasis.
Urine drug screening and the family physician.	Urine screening for drugs is increasingly employed in the United States in an effort to reduce illegal drug use and its consequent morbidity, mortality and economic burden. The family physician may choose to ensure proper urine specimen collection or may choose to develop expertise as a medical review officer; training courses and materials are available. In addition, certification is available from several organizations. The physician who becomes a medical review officer is responsible for interpreting positive tests and may also become involved in drug rehabilitation programs. It is prudent to follow federal guidelines for occupational urine drug screening, even when these guidelines are not mandatory, to protect against a possible challenge to a positive specimen on the grounds of improper processing. In all cases, care should be taken to correctly identify the patient, to label all specimens and to document that the specimen has been secured against tampering.
A study on the reliability of dipstick urinalysis.	The objective of this study is to determine the reliability of the Ames automated method as a screening procedure for the detection of red blood cells and leukocytes. 5486 urines were analyzed by an automated dipstick technique. 3127 urines were completely negative on the stick and 2359 showed a positive finding. All 2359 dipstick positive urines and 456 of the 3127 dipstick negative urines (total of 2815) were read blindly by one of two nephrologists working on different days, 1743 by M. K. and 1072 by P. S. Red cells, leukocytes and casts were enumerated per high power field and compared to the dipstick findings. Urines that were negative by dipstick for protein, blood leukocytes, nitrites, glucose and ketones were generally negative on microscopic examination, with only 5.3% having any abnormality. Urines positive for one or more of these findings correlated poorly with the microscopic findings due to the number of false positive and false negative dipsticks for red cells and leukocytes. Sensitivities were 75.3% and 81.0% and specificities were 88.6% and 64.3%, for red cell and leukocytes, respectively. Increasing the dipstick cutoff point improved sensitivity but lowered specificity. Urines positive for glucose and ketones had lower sensitivities for the detection of leukocytes, but not urines positive for protein. Microscopic examination should be done on dipstick abnormal urines. This may not be necessary for negative urines unless specifically indicated for clinical reasons. Urines positive for ketones or glucose should be screened systematically since they give a larger proportion of false negatives for leukocytes.
A new approach in the diagnosis and follow-up of bladder cancer. FISH analysis of urine, bladder washings, and tumors.	The aim of the present study was to ascertain whether fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) of urine could be a useful approach in bladder cancer. Herein, we present the cytogenetic and FISH findings in patients with and without bladder cancer. The samples examined with FISH consisted of urine, bladder washings, and tumor tissue, when available. The results obtained show that the FISH technique, particularly when used on urine, is a very useful tool in the diagnosis, early detection, and management of bladder cancer.
Assessment of plutonium exposures in Rongelap and Utirik populations by fission track analysis of urine.	A nuclear device, code-named Bravo, detonated at Bikini Atoll at 6:45 a.m. on 1 March 1954, unexpectedly released a large amount of radioactivity. Over 40 years after this incident, the study of its impact on the radiological health and environmental safety of the residents of Rongelap and Utirik Atolls continues. In 1987, researchers at Brookhaven National Laboratory established a fission track analysis (FTA) method for low-level 239Pu urinalysis. Two years later, a new shipboard protocol was developed for collecting 24-h radiologically clean urine samples. The purpose of this paper is to update information on the FTA method for measuring low-levels of plutonium, and to summarize results on the distribution of 239Pu in the populations of Rongelap and Utirik between 1981-1991. Plutonium detection levels (99% confidence level) in these samples were 2-3 microBq, which is equivalent to 0.2-0.3 mSv effective dose equivalent (EDE) to age 70 for Marshallese. The latest 1991 FTA data indicate average EDE of 0.62 mSv and 1.6 mSv for the people of Rongelap and Utirik, respectively, which both are the highest values since 1988.
A new approach to extending the dynamic range in inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry.	By the use of a new simultaneous dual stage discrete detector for inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), a linear dynamic range of 8 orders of magnitude was achieved in a single spectral scan. The design of the detection system and its evaluation are described. The acquisition of the full spectrum of a human urine sample in a single scan is shown.
Urine protein dipstick measurements. A screen for a standard, 24-hour urine collection.	To determine if the sum of urine protein dipstick values recorded during every void can be used to screen for patients who need a standard, 24-hour urine collection for determination of protein excretion.
Refined microscopic urinalysis for red blood cell morphology in the evaluation of asymptomatic microscopic hematuria in a pediatric population.	The use of refined microscopic urinalysis for the presence of dysmorphic red blood cells (RBCs) has been evaluated in children and adults with a known source of hematuria. We examined the clinical usefulness of this study in a pediatric population with an unknown source of hematuria.
Hematuria in the child. Investigation plan in pediatric practice]	The discovery of hematuria in a child should lead the pediatrician to a methodical evaluation of the patient based on an extensive history and comprehensive physical examination. The microscopic examination of the urine is the cornerstone in the evaluation process and may suggest the origin of the hematuria. For instance, red blood cell casts indicate glomerular lesions and rule out the need for further urological examinations. According to the type of hematuria and the associated symptoms, a complete and immediate evaluation is sometimes necessary. This article presents a decisional tree to help the pediatrician to investigate an hematuria and to refer the child to a specialist, when needed.
Monitoring of occupational exposure to dichloromethane by diffuse vapor sampling and urinalysis.	The aim of the present study was to develop valid methods for monitoring of occupational exposure to dichloromethane (DCM).
Agreement between two methods for measuring urine pH in cats and dogs.	To compare urine pH of cats and dogs determined by use of a dipstrip and a pH meter.
