Partial outlet obstruction enhances modular autonomous activity in the isolated rat bladder.	Autonomous bladder activity can take the form of localized micromotions (MMs), suggesting that the detrusor may be arranged into component modules, of which each is capable of contracting autonomously. We examined MMs in isolated whole rat bladder and the effects of partial bladder outlet obstruction as a model of detrusor overactivity (DO) to ascertain whether altered modular activity could be an etiological factor in DO.
Treatment of persistent dysuria in women]	Sixty female patients with chronic cystitis and persistent dysuria (PD) were divided into two groups according to their treatment. Group 1 (n = 38) patients have received combined conservative treatment; group 2 (n = 22) received the above treatment plus have undergone transurethral resection (TUR) of the urinary bladder mucosa. For control, urodynamic tests were made (uroflowmetry, sphincterometry, electromyography of the urinary bladder muscles); microcirculation was studied at laser doppler flowmetry. It was found that PD females with chronic cystitis develop microcirculatory disorders registered at laser doppler flowmetry. They consist in congestion of blood in the microvessels, vascular spasm, red cell aggregation with sludge-syndrome and combine with urodynamic disorders manifesting as weak detrusor contractivity and evacuation function. The above urodynamic and microcirculatory disorders are treated conservatively (antibacterial therapy, transcutaneous laser irradiation of the suprapubic region using intravesical methods). To eradicate PD in long-term inflammation in the urinary bladder and development of squamous cell metaplasia of the urothelium, TUR of the affected area and intramural nerves with partial denervation of the urinary bladder is indicated.
Current perception threshold evaluation of the female urethra.	The purpose of this study was to determine the feasibility of the current perception threshold (CPT) evaluation in the female urethra. Women without LUT dysfunction underwent CPT testing using a Neurometer (Neurotron, Inc., Baltimore, MD) connected to a ring electrode in the urethra. Testing was done in a standardized fashion at three frequencies, 2000, 250 and 5 Hz, to determine when subjects first perceived the stimuli and when perceived stimuli became painful. Current perception threshold testing was accomplished in all 10 subjects studied. The level at which subjects first perceived stimuli was significantly lower than that at which the stimuli became painful ( P<0.002). Mean perception thresholds at 2000, 250 and 5 Hz were 70 microA (range 14-230), 25 microA (4-80) and 17 microA (2-78), respectively, and mean pain thresholds were 229 microA (54-424), 91 microA (24-162) and 110 microA (25-200), respectively. There was no difference in subjects' perception thresholds at 250 and 5 Hz ( P=0.206). Perception thresholds and pain thresholds were significantly different at all other frequencies. Women without LUT dysfunction have lower perception thresholds than pain thresholds and can distinguish between most stimuli at different frequencies. Current perception threshold testing of the female urethra is technically feasible and may be useful for assessing the functional integrity of different afferent pathways.
Use in daily urological practice of an ultrasound device for measuring bladder volume]	Bladder volume estimation is an everyday necessity in urology, especially for evaluation of the postvoid residual volume (PVR). The Bladder-Scan is a portable, noninvasive ultrasound device for bladder volume estimation. This study was designed to assess the value of the Bladder-Scan to measure PVR in routine hospital urological practice.
What affects the occurrence of nocturia more: menopause or age?	Prevalence studies show that nocturia is a very common condition, affecting older age groups in particular. In this study, we evaluate (1) the community-based prevalence of nocturia and its associated overactive bladder according to the patient's perception and disturbance to sleep and (2) whether age or menopausal (MP) transition has a greater effect on the occurrence of nocturia.
An effective treatment for functional urinary incoordination.	Twenty women diagnosed with functional urinary incoordination were randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups: biofeedback or progressive muscle relaxation. Ten subjects who were placed on a waiting list prior to treatment allocation served as a comparison group. The biofeedback intervention focused specifically on retraining of pelvic floor musculature (PFM). Patients were assessed pretreatment, posttreatment, and at 2-month follow-up. Outcome measures included self-reported symptomatology, psychological functioning, psychophysiological assessment of the PFM, and urologist ratings of problem severity and treatment efficacy. Both treatment approaches proved effective in improving symptomatology and psychological state. Subjects on the waiting list demonstrated no change in urological difficulties. No differences were found between the two treatment groups on any of the outcome measures. Theoretical and practical implications of the results are discussed.
Use of permanent electrodes in the peripheral nerve evaluation test (PNE-Test) in comparison to conventional wire electrodes]	Prior to implantation of a chronic sacral neurostimulator, it is important to establish which patients might profit from this kind of therapy in order to ensure, by means of a PNE (peripheral nerve evaluation) test, that the implantation of a permanent stimulating device is effective. In this study we compared the two different techniques used in our department (implantation of the permanent neurostimulation electrodes, the so-called "two-stage-implantation" vs. conventional PNE).
Nocturia and circadian blood pressure profile in healthy elderly male volunteers.	Nocturia is attributed to nocturnal polyuria and/or decreased functional bladder capacity. In this study we elucidated the mechanisms behind circadian fluid regulation and the occurrence of nocturia in healthy elderly males, specifically to determine the role of urine output and regulating hormones, blood pressure, and average voided volumes.
Remote monitoring of videourodynamics using smart phone and free instant messaging software.	To evaluate the feasibility of using smart phones plus free instant messaging software for remote monitoring of videourodynamics.
Prognosis of neurological bladders]	Numerous neurological diseases may hurt the neurological command of the miction and thus provoke the dysfunctions of the bladder and/or the urinary sphincter. These dysfunctions leads to annoying symptoms (incontinence, retention or both) but can also cause grave complications (renal infections, calculations, renal insufficiency, tumor of bladder). The forecast of the neurological bladders consists to prevent the urinary complications and to improve the comfort/quality of life. The initial care must be early and multidisciplinary. The objective of a low-pressure bladder emptied regularly without permanent drainage is common to all the situations. The objective of a dry and autonomous patient for the elimination of the urine is the main goal for the optimization of the quality of life. The restoration of a sexuality, a fertility, a control of the continence and the faecal exemption are also important parameters to improve of the quality of life. 
Urodynamic factors in relation to outcome of prostatectomy.	A pre- and postoperative five-year follow-up study on 83 patients undergoing elective prostatectomy for benign hypertrophy revealed good overall symptomatic results in 70 (84%). Hesitancy and a poor stream were improved more often than were frequency and nocturia. A high preoperative voiding pressure was significantly associated with a good result; less satisfactory results tended to be associated with a higher preoperative flow rate.
The intraprostatic spiral: a new device for insertion with the patient under local anesthesia and with ultrasonic guidance with 3 months of followup.	Acute or chronic urinary retention (median retention volume 1,000 ml.) was relieved successfully in 41 of 45 consecutive patients by insertion of an intraprostatic spiral with the patient under local anesthesia and with ultrasonic guidance. Insertion guided by ultrasound was successful in 35 patients (77 per cent). In 6 patients the spiral was inserted via the traditional endoscopic technique. During 3 months of followup the spiral remained in situ in 27 patients and in 6 it was repositioned. These 33 patients had free voiding with a median maximum flow rate of 13.6 ml. per second. Residual urine volume 1 month after insertion of the spiral was low (median 27 ml.). In 8 patients the spiral was removed during the observation period due to urinary incontinence or retention. The intraprostatic spiral is a favorable alternative to an indwelling catheter in patients awaiting an operation and in those with a high operative risk.
Urodynamic feedback therapies for retentive dysfunctions.	In the past decade a growing integration of behavioral and urological methods has produced a small quantitative literature of urodynamic biofeedback. This paper reviews reports of urodynamic retraining for retentive dysfunctions of the lower urinary tract. Cases are grouped according to types of feedback. The relative invasiveness of the various techniques are considered, and implications for conservative practitioners are suggested. The limitations of available data are detailed, and suggestions for future research are offered.
Current diagnostic technics in the prediction of the functional recovery of a urographically silent kidney]	25 patients with a silent kidney, because of obstructive uropathy, have been studied. Authors' aim was to find out some parameters which could be able to predict renal function recovery once the obstruction was removed. 99m Tc DTPA renal scintiscanning, renal ultrasonography, and the study of renal clearances on the urine obtained via a percutaneous nephrostomy were executed. The authors observed that when the nuclide renal uptake is absent a minimal functional recovery is still possible and it may be foretold only analysing the urine collected through a percutaneous nephrostomy.
A profile of disordered micturition in the elderly at home.	A prevalence survey of disturbed micturition in the elderly identified 7% with important degrees of disorder, 1% with lesser disorder and 1% who were catheterized. Incontinence, urgency, frequency and nocturia were the symptoms most commonly reported. Fifty-three per cent of people describing incontinence used preventive aids but one third of these continued to experience wetting of external clothing. Crude categorization of dysfunction on the basis of symptoms suggested that a component of unstable bladder was present in approximately 4% of the elderly population.
Sacral reflex latency in acute retention in female patients.	Neurophysiological measurements of the innervation of the lower urinary tract were performed on 14 female patients presenting with unexplained acute urinary retention. The method consisted of (a) static electromyography (EMG) of the anal and urethral sphincter with the patient relaxed, coughing and gripping, (b) the study of sensory thresholds on the dorsal nerve of the clitoris and in the urethra, (c) the measurement of sacral reflex latencies (SRL) from the dorsal nerve of the clitoris to the anus and urethra and from the urethra to the anus. The results showed that all 14 patients had significant defects in the innervation of their lower urinary tract. These findings suggest that a neurological explanation for acute retention in women should always be sought before making any other diagnosis.
Urodynamic findings in Parkinson's disease.	Neurological evaluation was performed in 24 men and 5 women with Parkinson's disease who had persistent bladder symptoms. Detrusor hyperreflexia was found in 26 (90 per cent) of the patients. Sporadic involuntary electromyography activity of the external sphincter during involuntary detrusor contractions was encountered in 61 per cent but in none did this cause obstruction. Coordinated striated sphincter relaxation during voluntary detrusor contraction was found in 13 patients (45 per cent). Among 22 men who were in the prostatic disease age group only 4 (18 per cent) had definite prostatic obstruction. Moreover, none of 8 men with persistent symptoms after prostatectomy had evidence of bladder outlet obstruction.
Neurophysiological measurement of the voiding reflex arcs in patients with functional disorders of the lower urinary tract.	Neurophysiological measurements were carried out in 180 patients presenting to a Joint Incontinence Clinic with a history of lower urinary tract dysfunction. A full urodynamic assessment was performed along with neurophysiological measurement of the voiding reflex arcs. The majority of patients were shown to have significantly abnormal responses on neurophysiological measurement when compared with normal controls. Two particular groups, patients with acute retention and females with stress incontinence, were shown to have markedly poorer results than patients with other urodynamic problems. These results suggest that many patients with lower urinary tract dysfunction may have a neurological component.
A new approach to electromyography of the external urethral sphincter.	Detailed electromyographic investigation of the external urethral sphincter was done as part of a urodynamic evaluation of 119 patients. The sphincter was located by inserting electrodes alongside the urethra. The electromyogram was viewed on an oscilloscope and recorded on paper. Normal and abnormal sphincter electromyograms were defined and the role of sphincter electromyography in urodynamic studies was discussed. It was observed that electromyographic activity does not always correlate with urethral resistance but must be interpreted in conjunction with other urodynamic parameters, such as urethral pressures, urinary flow rates and voiding cystourethrography. In addition, sphincter electromyography provides valuable information to define the various neural pathways involved in micturition and continence.
Simultaneous urethrocystometry in gynaecological patients with lower urinary tract dysfunction.	Simultaneous urethrocystometry was used in the investigation of 103 gynaecological patients with complaints of lower urinary tract dysfunction. The symptom of stress incontinence was present in 71 patients, and was verified in 56. The symptom of urge incontinence was present in 46 patients, urgency in 15 and other symptoms in 22. Motor urge incontinence was revealed in 13 patients, sensory urge incontinence in 3 and unstable urethral pressure in 30. A carefully recorded case history should be supplemented with objective measurements to obtain a correct diagnosis.
Neurologic aspects of detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia, with reference to the guarding reflex.	Of 137 patients with neurogenic detrusor hyperreflexia 71 with and 66 without vesicosphincter dyssynergia were analyzed. Intracranial lesions did not lead to vesicosphincter dyssynergia, which occurs only after spinal cord transection. The normal increase in striated sphincter activity with bladder filling (guarding reflex) usually is lost, while vesicosphincter dyssynergia usually appears after complete spinal cord injury. This finding provides evidence of supraspinal mediation of detrusor-sphincter interaction. Vesicosphincter dyssynergia is hypothesized to be an abnormal flexor response of the perineal musculature to bladder contraction, which is peculiar to humans.
Results of prolonged bladder distension as treatment for detrusor instability.	Forty-six patients with urinary symptoms associated with unstable (uninhibitable) detrusor contractions have been treated by a total of 58 bladder distensions; 43 of these were fully re-evaluated urodynamically thereafter and none showed conversion from unstable to stable detrusor behaviour. Four patients with unstable bladders were symptomatically improved but 5 patients reported symptomatic deterioration. We have concluded that while over-distension may sometimes improve a patient's symptoms, it did not result in the abolition of detrusor contractions or the reversal of unstable detrusor behaviour.
Bladder contractility and idiopathic detrusor instability in males.	Thirty males (mean age 54 +/- 13 years) with an "idiopathic" detrusor instability and fully compensated bladders (no post-micturition residuals) were assessed urodynamically at a short distance of time (3 months, on average) from the beginning of clinical symptoms. Thirty age-matched controls were also investigated. Detrusor shortening velocity was found to be increased in the unstable patients (P < 0.001), which seemed to derive from enhanced contractile capability in the presence of normal urethral resistance. Such data confirm the results of previous investigations in males with obstructive detrusor instability as well as in women with idiopathic unstable bladders. The significance of these findings was discussed. In particular, it was suggested that detrusor instability may involve changes leading both to more excitable bladder smooth muscle cells and to an easier electrical coupling between the same cells, thus, to enhanced contractile capability. It was also suggested that if an impaired contractile function in unstable bladders may be the final result of a process of detrusor collagenosis, increased bladder contractility would rather characterize an initial phase in the natural history of detrusor instability.
Neurophysiology of the female pelvic floor.	The neurogenic theory of female pelvic floor dysfunction suggests a common thread for malfunction of pelvic visceral and support activities. Support for the neurogenic hypothesis has been promoted by recent literature showing that more central neuropathic processes, such as in the cauda equina or pelvic plexus, can be associated with the previously described peripheral neuropathies and are linked to pelvic floor disorders. Damage by vaginal dissection has been suggested as another etiologic factor. This concept has further been supported by studying the effects of pudendal nerve blockade. Methods for investigating pelvic floor neurophysiology are becoming more refined and widespread, and therapeutic horizons are described including nerve stimulation and surgical therapy of nerve compression.
Urodynamics in functional rehabilitation]	Urodynamics is used as an help to aid the diagnosis of sphincter or bladder dysfunction mechanisms and as an evaluation tool of drugs (tests) or retraining (biofeedback). The following are used: uroflowmetry sphincterometry cystometry, electrodiagnosis. These data are recorded simultaneously. In rehabilitation medicine, a special place is given to the active patient's participation during the examination. This allows a good approach to voluntary control and micturition reflex.
Changing concepts in the urodynamic evaluation of children.	Urodynamic evaluation was performed in 46 children with myelodysplasia, spinal cord injury, enuresis, postoperative incontinece, sacral agenesis and recurrent urinary tract infection. The basic study consisted of voiding cystourethrography followed by the simultaneous recording of intra-abdominal and intravesical pressure with external urethral sphincter electromyography. Urethral pressure profile, urinary flow rate and anal sphincter electromyography were performed selectively. There was no correlation between the clinical neurological level and the cystometric pattern in patients with spinal cord lesions. Bladder-external sphincter dyssynergia was associated with a high post-void residual urine in children with hypertonic bladders, while in children with hypotonic bladders dyssynergia did not affect the post-void residual. Since, urinary symptoms bore little relationship to urodynamic findings in our study we recommend complete evaluation of children who have persistent disturbances of micturition.
A urodynamic evaluation of patients with renal, upper and lower ureteric stones.	To investigate the urodynamic variables of the patients with renal, upper and lower ureteric stones and compare the results according to the location of the stone.
Altered regulation of bladder nerve growth factor and neurally mediated hyperactive voiding.	Elevated bladder smooth muscle cell (BSMC) nerve growth factor (NGF) secretion and related neuroplasticity are associated with hyperactive voiding in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs: hypertensive, behaviorally hyperactive), compared with control Wistar-Kyotos (WKYs). We used two inbred strains (WKHT: hypertensive; WKHA: hyperactive) to further investigate this phenomenon. WKHA BSMCs secreted higher basal levels of NGF than WKHT BSMCs. Antagonists did inhibit NGF output in WKHA but not WKHT cultures. Thus augmented basal secretion of NGF cosegregates with a hyperactive phenotype, whereas a lack of regulatory inhibition of NGF output cosegregates with a hypertensive phenotype. Bladder norepinephrine content paralleled NGF content, with WKHTs > SHRs > WKHAs > WKYs, providing evidence that a lack of inhibition is the greatest contributor to elevated bladder NGF and noradrenergic innervation. Protein kinase C (PKC) agonists affected NGF production differentially depending on strain, suggesting that altered PKC signaling may contribute to strain differences in NGF secretion. Finally, 6-h voiding frequency differed between the strains, with SHRs > WKHTs = WKHAs > WKYs. Thus aspects of both the hypertensive and hyperactive phenotypes may be associated with elevated SHR bladder NGF and hyperactive voiding.
FPSUND: a pan-Canadian evaluation of a clinical classification of urinary incontinence]	Historically, urinary incontinence is divided into 3 subtypes: stress, urge and mixed. This latter group, which according to many studies can account for up to 50% of the patients, is very heterogenous. For this same reason, the reports of treatments of urinary incontinence are very difficult to analyse using this simple classification. In a attempt to clarify this situation and to help the acquisition of useful clinical information relating to urinary incontinence, were have developed a clinical classification of urinary incontinence (FPSUND) in which 6 symptoms are graded in severity from 0 to 3. In this acronym, the F stands for frequency, the P for the use of protection, the S for stress-related complaints, the U for urge-related complaints, the N for nocturia and the D for the number of daily micturitions. Urologists across Canada were sent the French or English version of the classification and used it to evaluate 148 female patients aged from 18 to 70, suffering from urinary incontinence. A second, independent evaluation, was also performed on the same patients by registered nurses or urodynamic technicians. Reproducibility between observers, as assessed by the weighted Kappa score ranged from 0.47 and 0.74 (p < 0.05), was very good. Generally, the users of the classification found it very easy to use. In summary, we propose the FPSUND clinical classification of urinary incontinence as a useful and accurate tool to classify urinary incontinence and as a means to assess treatment outcome.
