Metastatic intrapelvic tumor from esophageal cancer: a case report]	We report a case of a metastatic intrapelvic tumor arising from esophageal cancer. The patient, a 74-year-old man, visited our hospital with the chief complaint of gross hematuria. Magnetic resonance imaging and cystoscopy revealed a huge intrapelvic tumor which invaded the bladder, rectum, sigmoid colon and left ilium. The patient underwent total pelvic evisceration with ileal conduit and colostomy. Pathologic diagnosis of the intrapelvic tumor was moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Preoperatively, gastrointestinal fiberscopy revealed an esophageal tumor, and biopsy showed moderately differentiated squamous cell carcinoma. Finally, the intrapelvic tumor was diagnosed as metastatic tumor from esophageal cancer.
Clinical analysis of 123 cases of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of upper urinary tract]	With the development of diagnostic techniques of imaging, and application of endoscope, early diagnosis and treatment of transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of upper urinary tract have been improved to a great extent in recent years, but still caused debates. In this article, we discussed the diagnostic and therapeutic methods of TCC of upper urinary tract.
Urinary tract metastasis from renal carcinoma.	Five patients with urinary tract metastases from renal carcinoma are presented. In 4, urinary tract metastasis occurred in the absence of spread elsewhere. The initial presentation in 1 patient was ureteric obstruction; 3 others re-presented with haematuria and the fifth patient was diagnosed post mortem. Metastatic sites included ipsilateral ureter, contralateral ureter, ureteric stump, bladder and prostatic fossa. After previous nephrectomy for renal carcinoma, urinary metastases, although rare, should be considered and investigation of unexplained haematuria should include the ureteric stump. Useful palliation and possibly cure can be achieved by resection of these lesions.
Urogenital linitis plastica metastatic from stomach.	We herein describe an example of gastric linitis plastica metastatic to the urinary bladder. A comprehensive appraisal of the literature yields only one similar reported case. Our patient experienced an objective partial response to neoadjuvant chemotherapy.
Sphincter-preserving extended resection for locally advanced rectosigmoid carcinoma involving the urinary bladder.	Radical en bloc resection has gained acceptance in the management of locally advanced colorectal carcinoma. Total pelvic exenteration has been advocated as treatment for rectosigmoid cancers involving adjacent genitourinary structures. We report a series of 10 patients who underwent total cystectomy with en bloc segmental colorectal resection and restoration of intestinal continuity. All margins, including the distal colorectal margin of resection, were pathologically uninvolved by tumor. The median follow-up on these patients was 44 months and the mean survival was 42.5 months. The local recurrence rate (20%) and survival rates are comparable to those in reports describing pelvic exenteration for colorectal cancer. Our patients had normal postoperative bowel function. An extended colorectal resection, including a total cystectomy with rectal sphincter preservation, is occasionally possible when tumor-negative resection margins can be achieved. By restoring intestinal continuity, such an operation provides an improved quality of life, and more importantly, fulfills the criteria for an oncologically sound operation.
An unusual case of Von Hipple Lindau (VHL) syndrome with bilateral multicentric renal cell carcinoma with synchronous solitary urinary bladder metastasis.	In VHL syndrome, renal cell carcinoma is distinctive for its early age of onset, for its bilateral and multifocal involvement. Synchronous solitary urinary bladder metastasis from renal cell carcinoma is extremely rare. We report an unusual case of VHL with bilateral multicentric renal cell carcinoma and synchronous solitary urinary bladder metastasis. To the best of our knowledge this is the first case reported in literature with this combination.
Solitary breast cancer metastasis to the bladder: an unusual occurrence.	Breast carcinoma is the most common nondermatologic cancer diagnosis in women. Common metastatic sites include lymph nodes, lung, liver, and bone. Metastases to the bladder are exceedingly rare. To date, there are a total of 31 reports of patients diagnosed with metastatic breast cancer to the bladder while living. Only 5 of these patients were reported to have no other site of metastasis, other than axillary nodes at breast surgery. We present the sixth reported case of metastatic breast carcinoma solely to the bladder in a living patient.
Tumour localisation with 131I-labelled human IgM monoclonal antibody 16.88 in advanced colorectal cancer patients.	Human IgM monoclonal antibody 16.88 recognised an intracellular antigen strongly expressed in colorectal cancer tissue in 51% of our patients. Tumour localisation was carried out with 185 MBq 131I-16.88 (8 mg) in 20 of these patients with advanced disease. In 16 patients (80%) immunoscintigraphy was positive in at least one organ site with disease. Of all sites, 55% could be visualized. In general, lesions less than 3 cm could not be detected. Sequential immunoscintigrams of liver metastases showed variable patterns. Initial "cold" lesions corresponded to liver metastases with poor blood supply as indicated by 99mTc-sulphur-colloid and 99mTc-HMPAO scintigraphy, respectively. The mean (S.D.) biological half-life (whole body clearance of radioactivity) was 37.6 (5.0) h. A second infusion of 131I-16.88 with the addition of high doses of unlabelled 16.88 could be done safely, but did not result in better visualisation of tumour lesions or affect radioactivity clearance from the body.
Optimizing the approach for lymph node dissection during laparoscopic radical cystectomy.	Lymph node dissection (LND) for muscle-invasive bladder cancer is one of the integral steps of radical cystectomy. In addition to staging, adequate LND has been found to alter both the prognosis for and the course of the disease after radical cystectomy.
Supralevator pelvic exenteration with colonic J-pouch-anal anastomosis and Mainz pouch operation with anastomosis to the urethra. Report of a case.	This is the first documented case report in which construction of double pouches, a colonic J-pouch and a Mainz pouch with anastomosis to the urethra, was performed in a patient who underwent supralevator pelvic exenteration. We have shown that the operation is feasible; the patient was continent, except for nightly urinary leakage, and was able to defecate and urinate spontaneously without any catheterization. Based on the experience of this case, we believe that this combined operation results in a better quality of life for the patient because of the avoidance of both urinary and fecal stomas. If justified pathologically, this operation may represent an improvement for those patients with extensive cancer of the rectum, which invades the adjacent anterior viscera, or that of the bladder, which invades the posterior viscera.
Ureteroscopic and extirpative treatment of upper urinary tract urothelial carcinoma: a 15-year comprehensive review of 160 consecutive patients.	Study Type--Therapy (case series) Level of Evidence 4. What's known on the subject? and What does the study add? Upper urinary tract urothelial carcinomas (UTUC) have historically been treated with radical, extirpative surgery, primarily nephroureterectomy with bladder-cuff excision. In general, there has been growing interest in renal preservation, as evidenced by the broadening application of nephron-sparing surgery for renal parenchymal tumours. Beyond imperative reasons such as tumour in a solitary kidney, bilateral disease, or comorbidities preventing radical surgery, there is a growing role for endoscopic management of upper tract tumours. The aim has been to obtain similar oncological results to those of extirpative surgery, while preserving long-term renal function. Properly selecting patients for these therapies, designing specific treatments based on a complex presentation, and general information with regard to outcomes and risks for patient counselling have been based historically on results from relatively small series without long-term follow-up. This study reflects all patients with UTUC treated by a single tertiary referral surgeon, accrued prospectively over 15 years using the same surgical techniques and treatment algorithms throughout the entire study period, with 10-year survival data. The consecutively accrued nature and size of the study groups, uniformity in treatments, statistical review and long-term follow-up provide baseline oncological data that could help frame future study.
Long-term endoscopic management of upper tract urothelial carcinoma: 20-year single-centre experience.	Study Type--Therapy (case series) Level of Evidence 4. What's known on the subject? and What does the study add? Endoscopic management of small, low-grade, non-invasive upper tract urothelial cell carcinoma (UTUC) is a management option for selected groups of patients. However, the long-term survival outcomes of endoscopically-managed UTUC are uncertain because only four institutions have reported outcomes of more than 40 patients beyond 50 months of follow-up. Moreover, there is significant variance in the degree of underlying UTUC pathology verification in some of these reports, which precludes an analysis of disease-specific survival outcomes. The present study represents one of the largest endoscopically managed series of patients with UTUC, with a long-term follow-up. The degree of verification of underlying UTUC pathology is one of the highest, which allows a grade-stratified analysis of different outcomes, including upper-tract recurrence-free survival, intravesical recurrence-free survival, renal unit survival and disease-specific survival. These outcomes provide further evidence suggesting that endoscopic management of highly selected, low-grade UTUC can provide effective oncological control, as well as renal preservation, in experienced centres.
A case report of metastatic renal cell carcinoma to the bladder]	70-year-old man was suffering from asymptomatic gross hematuria. Computed tomography demonstrated the mass in the right kidney, bladder, bone and lung. Cystoscopy revealed a solitary, nonpapillary lesion at the right side of the dome. At first, transuretheral resection of bladder tumor was performed. The pathological diagnosis was clear cell carcinoma of unknown origin. Sequentially, retroperitoneoscopic nephrectomy was performed. The pathological diagnosis of the right renal tumor was also clear cell carcinoma. The diagnosis was renal cell carcinoma metastasized to the bladder, bone and lung. To our knowledge, in Japan, this is the 45th case of metastasis to the bladder of renal cell carcinoma in the literature. 
A case of Paget's disease of the vulva with bladder metastasis]	A very rare case of bladder metastasis of the Paget's disease of the vulva is reported. A 83-year-old woman first experienced an eczematoid eruption on the vulva 12 years earlier. It was diagnosed as Paget's disease of the vulva and treated with radiation 8 years earlier. In March, 1985 a biopsy of the vulva revealed a recurrence of Paget's disease. In August, 1986 she had a sudden attack of left flank pain. The excretory urogram showed bilateral hydronephrosis and transurethral echogram of the bladder demonstrated large nodular tumors of the bladder. Transurethral biopsies of the bladder revealed Paget's disease. Total cystourethrectomy with bilateral ureterocutaneostomy and wide skin excision of the vulva with skin transplantation were performed. The pathological specimen showed several yellowish-white nodular tumors of the bladder, which obstructed both ureteral orifices. Microscopically typical Paget's cells were seen, some of which were stained with PAS before and after amylase and with alcian blue. Postoperatively she developed a severe complication of necrosis of the small intestine due to thrombosis of superior mesenteric artery and died of panperitonitis on the 55th postoperative day. Related reports were also reviewed.
Tumours of the renal pelvis and ureter. Observations in 170 patients.	A study was made of 170 patients with renal pelvis or ureteric tumours, 160 of whom underwent surgery between 1948 and 1981. The most important aetiological factor was chronic phenacetin abuse: 21.7% of 83 patients with renal pelvis tumours and 11.4% of those with ureteric tumours gave a history of phenacetin abuse. The latency periods ranged from 24 to 26 years. This is the first report of a relationship between abuse of analgesics and urothelial tumours from the Federal Republic of Germany.
Operative interventions on the urinary tract in combined surgical treatment of cancer of the rectum and sigmoid]	Immediate and long-term results of 28 combined operations for carcinoma of the distal part of the colon with resection of different portions of the urinary system are thought by the authors to justify such interventions even in a real spread of tumour to the adjacent organs. A wider range of resectability does not exert a negative effect on immediate and long-term results of the surgery. Complications due to a wider volume of surgery are noted rarely and never result in lethal outcomes. The incidence of recurrences and metastases in the group of patients subjected to combined operations is the same as compared with typical interventions.
Presumed metastatic transitional cell carcinoma of the choroids.	Ocular metastases from urinary tract carcinoma are extremely rare. Three previous cases of choroidal metastases from transitional cell carcinoma from the urinary bladder have been described, as have 2 cases of orbital metastases from bladder carcinoma. This is believed to be the first reported case of choroidal metastasis from transitional cell carcinoma of the renal pelvis in a 50-year-old female patient. The tumour, despite the absence of extension beyond the pelvic wall, showed disseminated metastases that proved resistant to chemotherapy. The fluorescein angiographic and ultrasonographic findings are described and the literature is briefly reviewed.
Kidney and urinary tract complications in tumor patients]	This review deals with renal and urinary tract complications in tumor patients. Neoplastic infiltration of the kidney and glomerular nephropathies in neoplastic diseases are discussed. Tumor obstruction of the urinary tract and renal disease due to tumor metabolites are important, potentially reversible complications. Radiation nephritis and drug-induced renal disease can often be avoided with the aid of precautionary measures. Urogenital infections in tumor patients are frequent and often due to atypical microorganisms. Guidelines for dosage modifications of antineoplastic agents in patients with renal insufficiency are summarized. Renal failure in tumor patients deserves a careful diagnostic and therapeutic approach. The potential renal and urinary tract toxicities of the different therapeutic modalities must be considered when planning therapy for cancer patients.
Total pelvic exenteration for locally advanced colorectal carcinoma.	Twenty-six patients who underwent total pelvic exenteration for locally advanced colorectal cancer were studied retrospectively. The operative mortality rate was 8 per cent (two deaths). In patients with stage II primary disease the recurrence rate after curative surgery was three of seven, although the mean survival time was 58 months and the 5-year survival rate 71 per cent. Patients with stage III primary disease had a shorter mean survival time regardless of supposed curability (curative 14 months versus non-curative 9 months). Patients with stage IV disease had a mean survival time of 5 months. In patients who underwent curative surgery for recurrent disease the mean survival time was 33 months and 5-year survival rate 25 per cent, although in those receiving non-curative surgery the survival time was significantly shorter at 10 months (P < 0.05). Total pelvic exenteration is warranted for patients with stage II locally advanced colorectal carcinoma and is an option for those with recurrent carcinoma when performed with curvative intent.
Metastases of the ureteral stump and bladder from renal cell carcinoma: report of a case.	The case of a 56 year-old male patient with asynchronous isolated metastases to the ureteral stump and bladder from renal cell carcinoma is presented. Ureteral metastasis was discovered 2 years after nephrectomy. Cystoscopy and MRI were performed. An excision of the ureteral stump with a cuff of bladder was carried out. No other metastasis was observed. Six months later a transurethral resection was performed on account of metastasis of the right wall of the bladder. Pathological examination demonstrated a renal cell carcinoma metastasis. After 6 months a new vesical metastasis from renal cell carcinoma was found. The small nodule of the lower part of the right wall of the bladder was removed. The literature is reviewed and the presentation, metastatic pathways, management of ureteral stump and bladder metastases from renal cell carcinoma are discussed.
