Cystocerebral syndrome: a case report and literature review.	Delirium is a frequent cause of hospitalization in the elderly patient, and can be sustained by several factors, which are not always evident. In 1990 Blackburn and Dunn described a clinical picture characterized by the presence of acute urinary retention presenting as delirium, and named it "cystocerebral syndrome". In 1991 Liem and Carter advanced a possible pathophysiological explanation for this phenomenon, suggesting that adrenergic tension might increase in the central nervous system when micturition cannot occur at the usual threshold. The consequent increase in catecholamines level might produce delirium. We report the case of a very old subject with delirium and acute urinary retention, suggestive of the "cystocerebral syndrome", in order to call the attention of geriatricians to acute urinary retention as a possible precipitating factor of delirium.
The role of the carbachol test and concomitant diseases in patients with nonobstructive urinary retention undergoing sacral neuromodulation.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the percutaneous nerve evaluation (PNE) test success in patients with nonobstructive urinary retention. A total of 24 PNE tests were performed in patients with nonobstructive urinary retention and in 18 patients, a carbachol test was performed during urodynamics. The diagnosis relating to the acontractile detrusor was also assessed and compared to the outcome of the PNE test. The PNE test was successful in eight of 24 patients (33.3%) with the the highest success rate being observed in patients after hysterectomy (80%). It was successful in five of 12 patients with negative carbachol tests and in three of six patients with positive carbachol tests. We conclude that sacral neuromodulation is an effective treatment option in patients with nonobstructive urinary retention. PNE tests should be performed in all patients with therapy resistant nonobstructive urinary retention, because predictive factors do not exist.
Nephrocalcinosis]	Nephrocalcinosis is used to describe renal parenchymal calcification. Causes of nephrocalcinosis include persistent hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, acid-base disorders, hyperoxaluria and urinary stasis. Patients with nephrocalcinosis initially present no symptom. However, advanced nephrocalcinosis is irreversible and causes impaired renal function. Therefore, careful observation for the presence and progression of nephrocalcinosis is necessary for patients who have risk factors for this disorder.
Bladder stone formation after sigmoidocolocystoplasty: statistical analysis of risk factors.	Bladder stone formation (BSF) after sigmoidocolocystoplasty (SCP) is a major source of morbidity. The authors identify risk factors and analyze them statistically.
The usefulness of clinical history for the diagnosis of lower urinary tract obstruction in patients with acute urinary retention]	To determine the diagnostic usefulness of data provided by clinical history for the diagnosis of lower urinary tract obstruction in patients with acute urinary retention.
Urinary retention: a cause of hyponatremia?	Syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) is the most common cause of hyponatremia in elderly hospitalized patients; however in many patients the etiology remains unclear even after routine investigations.
Value of PSA/gamma-Sm ratio (P/S ratio) for diagnosis of prostate cancer in patients with urinary retention]	It is known that serum prostate specific antigen (PSA) in urinary retention due to benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) increase. To evaluate prognostic value of the ratio of serum PSA to gamma-seminoprotein (P/S Ratio) for prostate cancer (PC) in patients with urinary retention, we have studied the P/S Ratio at the initial examination in 33 patients with untreated PC (10 with and 23 without urinary retention) and 193 patients with untreated BPH (38 with and 155 without urinary retention) histopathologically diagnosed at our hospital between January, 1992 and December, 1993. The results were as follows: 1) The mean P/S ratio of PC patients was significantly higher than that of BPH patients in both groups with and without urinary retention. 2) When the cut off value of P/S Ratio was determined to be 1.35, the highest efficiency, 59.3% was obtained in the group without urinary retention. The sensitivity and specificity were 65.2% and 91.0%. 3) In the group with urinary retention, the efficiency was also the highest, 80.0% with a cut off value of 1.35. The sensitivity and specificity were 80.0% and 100%. 4) In all patients, the efficiency was 64.6%, the sensitivity was 69.7%, and the specificity was 92.7% with a cut off value of 1.35. 5) Positive rate of serum PSA in BPH patients with urinary retention was 47.4% and that in BPH patients without urinary retention was 17.4%. The mean P/S ratio of the BPH patients with urinary retention was significantly lower than that of BPH patients without urinary retention, which suggested that the serum free PSA increase in the former.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Laparoscopic cholecystectomy in the elderly.	Few studies have examined the results of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) in the elderly. We reviewed our experience with the procedure in 194 patients age 65 and older.
