Economic evaluation of six scenarios for the treatment of stones in the kidney and ureter by surgery or extra-corporeal shock wave lithotripsy.	Health policy makers in the U.K. have had to respond to the advent of a new, high technology, method of treating stones. In order to assist the definition of an appropriate policy this evaluative study of the new technique was undertaken. The economic benefits of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) were compared with those of conventional open surgery for the treatment of upper urinary tract stones considering 6 possible 'scenarios', or intuitively plausible combinations of prices and levels of diffusion. It was concluded that second generation ESWL machines operated and financed at designated 'stone coalitions of health regions for a supra-regional population of about 12-15 million would be the most cost efficient option. Use of the currently available Dornier machine on the same supra-regional basis would be the, somewhat more expensive, second best option. These results, along with a range of supplementary documentation, were presented to both the national Department of Health and Social Security, and to the North Western Regional Health Authority. The NWRHA in turn presented its case to a supra-regional committee. The most cost-effective solution was adopted by this supra-regional committee.
Extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy for stones in abnormal urinary tracts: analysis of results and comparison with normal urinary tracts.	We reviewed our experience with SWL for stones in abnormal urinary tracts and compared the results with those in normal urinary tracts.
Long-term effects of ureteroscopic laser lithotripsy on glomerular filtration rate in the face of mild to moderate renal insufficiency.	Ureteroscopic laser treatment of calculi in the upper urinary tract was examined in regard to its effect on renal function in the setting of mild renal insufficiency. Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL) and SWL have been previously shown not to adversely affect the glomerular filtration rate (GFR) in renal insufficiency, but to our knowledge, the effect of ureteroscopic laser lithotripsy on GFR has not been previously reported.
In vitro analysis of stone fragmentation ability of the FREDDY laser.	The Frequency-Doubled Double-Pulse Nd:Yag) (FREDDY) laser (World of Medicine, Berlin Germany) is a short-pulsed, double-frequency solid-state laser with wavelengths of 532 and 1064 nm. This low-power, low-cost laser was developed for intracorporeal lithotripsy. We designed an experimental set-up to test its fragmentation efficiency at different energy and frequency settings.
Percutaneous nephrolithotomy in patients with or without a history of open nephrolithotomy.	Whether a history of open nephrolithotomy affects the efficacy and morbidity of percutaneous interventions remains unsettled. We investigated this issue in our patients.
Prospective randomized comparative study of the effectiveness and safety of electrohydraulic and electromagnetic extracorporeal shock wave lithotriptors.	We compared the efficacy of 2 shock wave energy sources, electrohydraulic (Dornier MFL 5000, Dornier MedTech, Wessling, Germany) and electromagnetic (DLS, Dornier Lithotriptor S, Dornier MedTech), for the treatment of urinary calculi.
A special irrigation liquid to increase the reliability of laser-induced shockwave lithotripsy.	For the laser-induced shockwave lithotripsy (LISL) the laser-pulses of a Q-switched Nd:YAG laser produce an optical breakdown in the irrigation liquid surrounding the urinary stone. Subsequently high-pressure shockwaves are emitted causing stone fragmentation. Since the LISL is an endoscopic technique, problems arise from the transmission of the laser pulses through optical fibers. The intensity threshold for an optical breakdown in commonly used saline solution amounts to 21 GW/cm2, in optical silica fibers, to about 3 GW/cm2. Therefore bare fibers cannot be used without being destroyed by a breakdown. So we have developed an irrigation liquid by adding small quantities of metal ions to saline solution to lower the threshold intensity. The most suitable ion was Fe3+ in a concentration of 0.02 mmol/l, which shows a lowering to 5 GW/cm2. In combination with a spherically shaped fiber exit the intensities that have to be transmitted are below the threshold of the fiber material. Using this irrigation liquid the overall reliability of the method could be significantly increased and several stone fragmentations can be performed with a single optical fiber.
The 'modified prone position': a new approach for treating pre-vesical stones with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.	To investigate the utility of a new 'modified-prone' position for treating pre-vesical stones with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL), usually considered an acceptable and effective treatment for such stones, but for which many different body positions have been used in an attempt to increase its efficacy.
Improved functional deflection with a dual-deflection flexible ureteroscope.	To compare the maximal active deflection capabilities of a newly designed dual-deflection ureteroscope with those of a standard flexible ureteroscope.
An update on ureteroscopic instrumentation for the treatment of urolithiasis.	Ureteroscopic instruments, both endoscopic and working devices, continue to evolve. Changes in instrumentation have necessitated concurrent modifications in ureteroscopic techniques over the years. The safety and efficacy of the ureteroscopic approach for the treatment of renal and ureteral calculi, however, have continued to improve.
Update: Management of calcium oxalate uroliths in dogs and cats.	Calcium oxalate has become the most common mineral occurring in canine and feline uroliths. Although calcium oxalate urolith formation may be a consequence of metabolic disease, the underlying cause is not identified in many dogs and cats. Currently, there is no successful medical dissolution protocol, and calcium oxalate uroliths must be removed physically if causing problems. Effective preventative protocols are available for dogs and cats, although they are not uniformly successful.
Lithotripsy: an update on urologic applications in small animals.	Lithotripsy methods for fragmenting uroliths continue to evolve.Increasing access to and experience with newer generation lithotriptors and continued study of laser methodology are likely to increase the application of lithotripsy methods in small animal urology. For small animals in which intervention is recommended for progressive, symptomatic, infected, or obstructive uroliths, nonsurgical extracorporeal or intracorporeal lithotripsy methods maybe considered.
Results of urolithiasis treatment in pilots with the use of a new domestic lithotripter "Kompakt" during remote lithotripsy]	Results of treating urolithiasis in pilots on new Russian lithotriptor Kompakt were analyzed. Length of the shock-wave pulse is 0.3-0.4 microsecond w/o the negative phase prevents damaging of the kidney tissue. Urolithiasis was treated in 45 pilots in 69 ESWL sessions: 6.2 concrements, mostly in calyces renales (95.6% of the patients), were crushed. In more than 30% of the patients concrements were no larger than 5 mm and in 66.7% of the patients they were X-ray negative (urate). Concrements were crushed in all 45 patients into fine-dyspersated fragments (< 3 mm). At no time after ESWL complications or secretory-excretory dysfunctions of kidneys were observed. In-hospital examination following 1.5-2 mos. since ESWL did not detect residual fragments in urinary tracts of the pilots. No renal or any other pathologies were found. All the patients were admitted to flight.
A study on the passage of the upper urinary tract stones after in situ ESWL]	Two hundred patients with upper urinary tract stones underwent in situ ESWL with Lithostar during the recent 20 months at Kanagawa Prefectural Atsugi Hospital. Actual residual stone rates were calculated based on the period from the initiation of the treatment to the stone free status, and discussed according to the location and size of the stone treated. Total 200 patients were submitted to 1.67 +/- 0.97 treatment sessions with 6742 +/- 5545 shock waves. After 3 months, 148 patients (78%) showed stone free status, and 32 patients (16%) had residual stones less than 4 mm. The actual residual stone rates were 90.5%, 66.5%, 39.1%, 26.9% and 17.9% after 1, 3, 6, 12 and 20 weeks, respectively. The residual stone rate were lower in the lower ureter, uretero-pelvic junction, upper ureter, renal parenchyma or diverticulum and renal pelvis or calyx in order. As for the size, the larger the stones the higher the residual stone rates; the therapeutic results were significantly worse in patient group of stones larger than 21 mm compared to the patient group of smaller stones (p less than 1%). The destructed stones were passed gradually up to 6th week after in situ ESWL, however, after that fragments seldom passed out. Therefore, it was concluded that decision on the additional or combination therapeutic intervention, if necessary, should be made after 6 weeks. Combination therapy with endoscopic surgery and/or others was seemingly needed for the patients with stones of more than 21 mm in size and of renal pelvis and renal calyx to improve the rates of stone free.
Shock wave treatment in medicine.	Extracorporeal shock wave therapy in orthopedics and traumatology is still a young therapy method. Since the last few years the development of shock wave therapy has progressed rapidly. Shock waves have changed the treatment of urolithiasis substantially. Today shock waves are the first choice to treat kidney and urethral stones. Urology has long been the only medical field for shock waves in medicine. Meanwhile shock waves have been used in orthopedics and traumatology to treat insertion tendinitis, avascular necrosis of the head of femur and other necrotic bone alterations. Another field of shock wave application is the treatment of tendons, ligaments and bones on horses in veterinary medicine. In the present paper we discuss the basic theory and application of shock waves and its history in medicine. The idea behind using shock wave therapy for orthopedic diseases is the stimulation of healing in tendons, surrounding tissue and bones.
The use of lasers in the treatment of urolithiasis]	The treatment of calculi in the urinary tract has been subject to major changes over the last few years. Since extracorporeal shockwave lithotripsy (ESWL) is the first choice of treatment, there appears to be little need for endoscopic and surgical techniques. In case ESWL treatment is unsuccessful or inadequate, laser lithotripsy is a good alternative. In most cases, laser lithotripsy causes a good disintegration with use of very thin and flexible instrumentation. Hence, the risk of damage to the urinary tract is much less than with other endoscopic techniques such as ultrasonic and electrohydraulic lithotripsy. Our first results with 21 bladder and 18 ureter calculi in 25 patients were a successful disintegration of 84% of bladder calculi and a 70% success for ureter calculi. Only one complication of the ureteroscopic manipulation was observed. Disadvantages of laser lithotripsy are the high price of the equipment and the fact that not all calculi can be fragmented with one type of laser.
Side-firing germanium oxide optical fibers for use with erbium:YAG laser.	During recent experimental studies, the erbium:YAG laser has been shown to be more efficient for lithotripsy and more precise for incision of soft urinary tissues than the conventional holmium:YAG laser. Mid-infrared optical fibers are being developed to allow endoscopic delivery of Er:YAG laser radiation. This paper describes the simple construction and characterization of a side-firing germanium oxide fiber for potential use with the Er:YAG laser in endourology.
Risk of collateral damage to endourologic tools by holmium:YAG laser energy.	Today, the holmium:YAG laser is the gold standard in endourologic stone treatment because of its high efficacy. However, guidewires and stone-extraction tools often are close to the fiber and may be damaged accidentally by the laser. The aim of our study was to evaluate the duration of laser application required to disrupt wires at different energy settings.
Stepwise shock wave lithotripsy: results of initial study for the treatment of urinary stones in childhood.	To assess the effectiveness of stepwise extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in the treatment of upper urinary stones in childhood.
Efficacy of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for ureteric stones in children.	Management of ureteral stones in children represents a challenging problem. In this study, we retrospectively analyzed our experience with extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) in 192 children with ureteric stones.
Experience with Lithostar shock wave lithotripsy for the treatment of upper urinary tract stone.	The experiment of Lithostar, an electromagnetic generator of the second-generation extracorporeal shock wave lithotriptor is presented. From August 2, 1988 to April 4, 1989, 387 treatments in 333 cases were conducted by Lithostar. Among all patients, the overall stone-free rate is 71.9% in which the ureteral stone-free rate (87.7%) is higher than the renal (66.3%) and 19.5% of the patients need additional procedures. This Lithostar proves to be easy in operation, bathless, requires less anesthesia, and may be used in combination with other procedures. It can also make higher average shock number than Dornier HM-3 lithotriptor because of its milder shock wave pressure.
Shock wave physics.	Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy has significantly altered the management of symptomatic renal and ureteral calculi. Yet in an effort to limit the potentially harmful effects of shock waves, while still maintaining or maximizing stone fragmentation, one must understand basic shock wave physics. This report presents a brief overview of the physical properties of shock waves and describes three different areas of shock wave physics investigation: measurement of shock wave pressures, assessment of stone fragmentation, and development of a stone phantom to allow the comparison of various lithotripsy devices. It is only through additional study of the basic physics of high-energy shock waves that we will be able to further enhance the clinical benefits of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. Further understanding of the individual characteristics of a shock wave pressure field such as peak positive pressure, peak negative pressure, pulse duration, and size/shape of the focal region will allow the subsequent enhancement of stone fragmentation while minimizing the potential for shock wave injury to surrounding tissues.
Electromagnetic extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy in children.	Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) was performed for the treatment of urinary tract calculi in 28 children. All treatments were done with the standard Siemens Lithostar device in situ: no special adaptations for adequate positioning of children are required to target the stone precisely. A total of 42 calculi in 30 renal units was treated, requiring 50 ESWL sessions. The mean energy used was 16.4 kv. and the number of shock waves averaged 3,188. Mean fluoroscopy time per session was 1.5 minutes. In 26 of 50 sessions (52%) general anesthesia was needed for the child to remain perfectly still. A complete stone-free rate was achieved in 38 of 42 calculi (90.5%): after 1 session in 30 (71.4%), after 2 sessions in 6 (13.7%) and after 3 sessions in 2 (4.8%). Five staghorn calculi were treated with ESWL monotherapy. A complete stone-free result was obtained after 3 treatments in 2 patients, while 2 had residual fragments in the lower pole (5 mm. after 6 sessions and 11 months of followup in 1, and 7 mm. after 3 sessions and 3 months of followup in 1). A cystine staghorn stone necessitated open nephrolithotomy after 3 sessions without any fragmentation. One impacted sacroiliac ureteral stone required endoscopic laser lithotripsy. Except for these 2 failures no adjuvant procedures were needed. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications and minor skin bruising at the coupling site after 3 treatments did not require any therapy. We conclude that electromagnetic ESWL with the standard Lithostar unit is a safe and effective method to treat calculi throughout the urinary tract in children.
Clinical experience of extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy for cystine calculi]	Thirty patients (16 men and 14 women) with cystine urinary stones were treated by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (Dormer HM-3) from December 1984 through October 1989. The average patient age was 35.2 years with a range of 14 to 59 years. Seventy per cent of these subjects had had previous open surgical operations for stones. The cases consisted of 7 ureteral stones and 37 renal stones, including 15 staghorn calculi. An average of 1.3 session of ESWL was carried out to treat ureteral stones. Thirty-seven renal units with renal stone required 96 sessions of lithotripsy (average 2.6 sessions per unit). Seven patients with ureteral stones required auxiliary procedures, i.e., one transurethral lithotripsy (TUL), two percutaneous nephrostomies (PNS) and one open surgery. Thirty-seven renal stones, including staghorn calculi was treated by ESWL and auxiliary treatment of 21 TUL procedures, one PNS, 16 PNL procedures and one chemical chemolysis. Successful fragmentation (residual debris less than or equal to 4 mm) was achieved in 85.7% of ureteral stones, 90.9% of renal stones and 73.3% of staghorn calculi. The stone free rates of patients with ureteral stones, renal stones and staghorn calculi were 71.4%, 50.0% and 53.5%, respectively, at 3 months after ESWL. No serious complications were seen in this series. Fever above 38.5 degrees C was the most common complications (13.5%). Ureteral perforation was encountered once in TUL procedures. Transfusion and selective arterial embolization were needed for one case treated by PNL procedures. Although cystine stone is harder to be fragmented by ESWL than other stone composition, ESWL and endourology may be effective and safe procedures for cystine stone patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Safety of ESWL in elderly: evaluation of independent predictors and comorbidity on stone-free rate and complications.	Urinary stone disease affects people of all ages. With its satisfactory efficacy ranges in all age groups and lack of side-effects, extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) has become the preferred treatment modality for uncomplicated renal and proximal calculi ≤ 20 mm. In the present study, we aimed to assess the safety and efficacy of the ESWL treatment in elderly patients.
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy]	Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) is a treatment of urinary stones with the uses of shock wave. The principle of ESWL will be exposed. The ways to localize the stones are then discussed with the mode of anesthesia. One session of ESWL will be presented in details. Contraindications, indications, prerequisit, complications and results will be briefly described. 
Ureteroscopy for treatment of upper urinary tract stones in children: technical considerations.	The incidence of pediatric urolithiasis is increasing. While many smaller stones may pass spontaneously, surgical therapy is sometimes warranted. Surgical options include shock wave lithotripsy, ureteroscopy, percutaneous nephrolithotomy, and open surgery. Ureteroscopy represents a minimally invasive approach, and it is increasingly being used to treat pediatric upper tract calculi. Ureteroscopy is performed under anesthesia and fluoroscopic guidance, with basket extraction or lithotripsy of the calculi. Technical considerations include active or passive ureteral dilatation, the use of ureteral access sheaths for larger stone burdens, and post-operative stent placement. The current pediatric literature suggests high success rates (equal to or surpassing shock wave lithotripsy) and low complication rates. However, concerns remain regarding feasibility in patients with variant anatomies and risk due to intra-operative radiation exposure. 
Technical considerations using a pulsed neodym-YAG laser for endoscopic shock wave lithotripsy.	First clinical experience with the use of a Q-switched pulsed Neodym-YAG Laser showed promising results. This paper focuses on two problems with respect to the optimal use of this laser: (1) is there any need for a special iron (Fe3+)-enriched irrigant, and (2) what is the best frequency for laser lithotripsy? To answer these questions, we used an in vitro model, measuring the laser-induced breakdown (LIB) photographically utilizing sodium chloride as an irrigant enriched with different amounts of Fe3+ ions. The disintegrative efficacy of the laser was tested utilizing a standard stone model (plaster cube) and working at different frequencies (1, 10, 40 Hz). The addition of Fe3+ ions resulted in significant improvement of LIB. However, in the presence of a test stone no difference between sodium chloride and Fe3+-enriched irrigants was noted. The use of lower frequencies (1, 10 Hz) lead to a remarkable improvement in the disintegrative efficacy of the laser compared to the standard frequencies (40, 50 Hz). For clinical use, addition of Fe3+ ions seems only necessary if optical breakdown (LIB) is insufficient despite the increase in generator voltage. In such a situation, we recommend the addition of an 1-ml Fe3+ solution to 10 liters of sodium chloride irrigant (= 0.5 mg Fe3+/dl). Moreover, the standard frequency for laser-induced intracorporeal lithotripsy should be 1-10 Hz.
Endoscopic treatment of urinary tract calculi.	Removal of urinary tract calculi by endourological techniques is now widely practised and has reduced the indications for open surgical removal to a minority of cases. A review of 270 consecutive patients who presented to the Meath Hospital Urology department with urinary tract calculi and were treated by percutaneous or transurethral endoscopy is herein reported. The rates of successful clearance of renal (95%) and ureteric (78%) calculi compare well with previous reports. The majority of complications were minor and a low overall complication rate was experienced at ureterorenoscopy. In our experience, endourological treatment of urinary tract calculi is successful, efficient and safe and is the recommended approach to urinary tract calculi that require surgical intervention.
Morphological changes following ESWL in the rat kidney.	Fifty four Wistar rats were treated with 500, 1,000 or 2,000 shock waves, using the modified DORNIER HM 3 system with the new SG40 shock wave generator. The animals were sacrificed after a period of 24 hours, 7 days or 35 days. Histological examination, scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were used to evaluate acute and long term effects after extracorporeal shock-wave lithotripsy (ESWL). Acute morphological changes such as glomerular bleeding, tubular dilatation, atrophy and partial necrosis occurred immediately after ESWL throughout the kidney. SEM revealed a tubular loss of microvilli and cilia. There was restitutio ad integrum of these diffuse lesions. The extent of the long term lesions was determined by the following mechanism: venous rupture occurred during ESWL, especially in thin arcuatae veins which are, tortuous their and run between two different tissue densities. This resulted in interstitial haematoma, demonstrable by MRI; in the long term groups, the haematomas progressed to interstitial fibrosis with segmental retraction of renal convexity. The blood supply in these areas was reduced and secondary changes such as glomerular-tubular atrophy and sclerosis followed. The degree to which long-term renal lesions resulted was determined by the extent of these changes, which were shock-wave dose dependent up to a dose of 2,000 shock waves.
Dissolution of obstructive uric acid calculi by percutaneous nephrostomy and in situ alkalinization]	Following the introduction of one or two percutaneous nephrostomy drains, 16 obstructive uric acid calculi were treated by perfusion of excretory cavities with 14% sodium bicarbonate solution. Twelve calculi had dissolved within an average of 5 days, 1 required percutaneous lithotripsy because of incomplete dissolution and 3 were unaltered. Success of this treatment appears to be dependent on the total radiotransparency of calculi, a feature difficult to demonstrate. There were no reports of major complications. The only weakly invasive nature of alkalinization in situ makes it a method of choice to be reserved for obstructive calculi, and a therapeutic strategy is proposed.
Lithotripsy.	In the last few years dramatic changes have occurred in the surgical treatment of stones in the upper urinary tract. Ninety-five per cent of all stones that previously necessitated open surgery are now amenable to less invasive techniques. Percutaneous nephrolithotomy (PCNL), developed in the early 1980s, has been complemented by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and ureterorenoscopy (URS). This article traces the history of ESWL, defines its place in the management of patients with upper urinary tract stones, and looks forward to further advances.
Efficacy of glucagon in the relief of ureteral colic following treatment by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy: a randomized double-blind trial.	In a prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled study 18 patients were evaluated in regard to the effectiveness of glucagon to treat ureteral colic following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. The study groups were comparable. There was no significant difference between glucagon and placebo in relief of pain or in the amount of gravel passed within 48 hours of treatment. We conclude that despite its desirable physiological attributes, glucagon has no demonstrable benefit in the treatment of ureteral colic following extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.
Extracorporeal lithotripsy and prophylactic antibiotic therapy]	During ESWL, bacteria which may be contained in the stone gets disintegrated. This study evaluates the role of prophylactic antibiotherapy in preventing such complications. Fifty patients whose urine culture was negative were randomized into two groups: the first group (25 patients) received a placebo, the second group received Ceftriaxone 1 g I.V. as a single injection performed 1 hour previous ESWL. There was no positive blood culture and no positive urine culture in the placebo group arm as well as in the antibiotic group. In this study, the risk of infection induced by ESWL seems to be minimal, so that prophylactic antibiotherapy does not appear to be necessary when urine before ESWL is sterile.
Endotoxemia in patients who underwent ultrasonic lithotripsy and extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.	The authors conducted limulus tests of assay blood endotoxin in order to study the fever which often develops after ultrasonic lithotripsy (USL) and extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL). Assays of endotoxin were also conducted after transurethral resection (TUR) and other operations as a basis for comparison. Endotoxemia was observed in 18 among 28 patients (64.3%) who underwent USL, in 8 among 34 patients (23.5%) who underwent ESWL, in 1 among 14 patients (7.1%) who underwent TUR and in 1 among 11 patients (9.1%) who underwent other operations. The incidence of endotoxemia was significantly higher (p less than 0.01 by chi 2 test) in patients who had undergone USL than in those who had undergone ESWL, TUR or other operations.
Ultrasonic destruction and endoscopic removal of kidney, ureteral, bladder and urethral stones.	Endoscopic removal of renal calculi was introduced at our department in 1984, first in Hungary and East-Europe. Renal, ureteral, bladder and urethral calculi are all endoscopically removed partially following ultrasonic destruction. The procedure is similarly used in cases of solitary kidney or of kidneys with staghorn calculi. Several hundreds of successful cases have proved the necessity and importance of the procedure.
Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy: the use of chemical treatments for improved stone comminution.	Extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) can require more than two thousand acoustic shocks to achieve an adequate degree of renal calculus comminution. A decrease in the number of shocks necessary for effective treatment offers both technical and clinical benefits. The results presented here demonstrate that it is possible in particular cases to increase substantially the degree of comminution produced using a fixed number of acoustic impulses by exposing the stones to solutions of controlled pH and chemical composition during acoustic shock treatment. The largest increase in comminution was observed for magnesium ammonium phosphate hexahydrate/apatite stones exposed to citrate solutions. The smaller particle sizes are shown to result not only from stone dissolution but also from an increase in the ease of stone fracture during acoustic shocking. The degree of comminution of the largest fragment sizes was also found to be slightly increased for calcium oxalate stones by exposure to synthetic urine of elevated pH. These chemical methods of increased stone comminution appear to be directly applicable to particular cases and may have general clinical utility if suitable conditions affecting all stones can be found.
The 'stone clinic effect': myth or reality?	Sixty-six active recurrent stone formers (RSF), i.e., with at least one stone annually over 3 years prior to the first examination at our stone clinic, were retrospectively evaluated. All received specific drug metaphylaxis which was discontinued after 5.5 +/- 2.1 years (period 1). They were reclassified according to the above definition into active and inactive RSF and were then left on a general metaphylactic regimen with regular urological follow-up every 6 months (period 2). 32 patients observed these recommendations for 5.7 +/- 2.6 years (group 1), 34 did not. 20 of these 34 could be reexamined after 6.3 +/- 2.2 years (group 2). Group 1 comprised 10 active and 22 inactive, group 2 comprised 1 active and 19 inactive RSF. While the recurrence rates among the inactive RSF of groups 1 and 2 decreased significantly during period 2, a statistically significant difference between them was not observed. Conversely, there was only a slight reduction of the recurrence rate in the active RSF. Both findings argue against a stone clinic effect. Interviews of the patients showed that stone formation was periodical for a mean of 12 +/- 8 years, after which it gradually faded out. This period is termed 'phase of regular stone formation' and appears to be an autonomous process that cannot usually be influenced by metaphylactic measures. This could explain the wide variability of reported success rates for the various metaphylactic regimens, as they would merely reflect the number of stone formers who are in their phase of regular stone formation.
Personal experience with uretero-renoscopy]	The authors submit evaluation of 188 patients operated on during five years (1989-1993). Using the ureterorenoscopic technique (URS), 207 operations have been performed. The average age in the group of patients was 56.1 years. In general anesthesia 151 operations were completed, in spinal anesthesia 54, in neuroleptanalgesia 1 and without any anesthesia 1. The postoperative ureteric intubation was accomplished 128 times (61.8%). The moderate dilatation of the hollow system of the kidney was proved ultrasonographically in only 7 cases. The average postoperative hospitalization reached 5.8 days. Out of 207 operations, we have reached successful result 177 times (85.5%) and 30 times (14.5%) we were not able to accomplish the operation only by means of the URS. 184 operations were performed because of urolithiasis (88.9%) and 23 (11.1%) for other reasons. Out of 184 URS for urolithiasis, 156 (84.8%) were successful and there was no difference found between pelvic (85.4%) and lumbal (83.6%) localization of urolithiasis in the view of success rate. The authors summarize the causes of mishaps and following solutions. The biochemical analyses of 153 concrements are added.
The changes in retinol-binding protein, N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, albumin and IgG in urine before and after ESWL]	The retinol-binding protein (RBP), N-acetyl-beta-glucosaminidase, (NAG) albumin (alb) and IgG in urine were measured from 67 patients with urinary stone before and after ESWL. The results showed that the amount of alb, IgG and RBP in urine was obviously increased for the patients with renal, upper ureteral or lower ureteral stone associated with hydronephrosis. ESWL may injure the glomerule and tubules by direct or indirect action. 2 weeks after ESWL, the alb, IgG and RBP in urine returned to normal in 56.8%, 70.3% and 51.4% of cases respectively. Therefore we suggest that retreatment should be put off as late as 2 weeks after the first ESWL. However, it is not limited for retreatment of lower ureteral stones without hydro nephrosis.
Pneumatic contact lithotripsy]	The safety and clinical efficacy of electrohydraulic, ultrasonic and pneumatic lithotriptors were compared in experiments on dog ureters and plaster plates. Electrohydraulic and pneumatic were most effective contact lithotriptors. The safest of them was pneumatic, ultrasonic was safer than electrohydraulic. "Lithoclast" lithotripter (EMS) was used in 209 patients who altogether had 327 calculi in the upper and lower urinary tracts. The mechanism of action is based on the transfer of the kinetic discharge energy to the probe and eventually to the concrement. The probes with diameter 2.4, 3, 4.8, 6 FR were employed fitting the channels of ureteropyelocysto- and nephroscopes. Irrespective of chemical structure, successful disintegration was conducted in 97.5% of the concrements. The duration of lithotripsy was 2-60 min. No complications The duration of lithotripsy was 2-60 min. No complications were registered due to pneumatic lithotriptor "Lithoclast" application.
Experience with YACHIYODA SZ-5000 extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy]	YACHIYODA SZ-5000 is a new model of lithotriptor made in Japan, of which the energy source is microexplosion. Compared with the old type of SZ-1, the water bag is substituted for a hot water bath and ultrasonography as well as fluoroscopy can be used for stone localization. Moreover, this new model is extremely small. The first clinical trial of 32 candidates with urinary tract calculi (34 stones) was performed at our hospital between September 1991 and June 1992. They were 10 women and 22 men between 25 and 71 with a mean of 47.3 years. All patients received no anesthesia. The stone location was: R2 for 16 stones, R3 for 5, U1 for 9, U2 for 1, and U3 for 3. The mean size was 14.1 mm. A mean number of 364, 326 and 324 shock waves were given for the R2, 3, U1, and U2, 3 stones, respectively. The second or third sessions were performed on 7 patients. Obvious symptoms and signs observed during the treatment were; local pain in 9 patients, nausea in 3, hypotension and bradycardia in 6, and hypertension in 3. Posttreatment fever up was found in two patients. In 34 stones, the efficiency evaluated 3 months later was 85.0% as determined by kidney-ureter-bladder X-ray and intravenous pyeography. In conclusion, YACHIYODA SZ-5000 is useful and safe in the management of patients with urinary tract stones.
Septic shock induced by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy treatment with percutaneous nephrostomy in 5 cases with urolithiasis]	We have experienced 5 cases of septic shock induced by extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL) and percutaneous nephrostomy. We suspected 5 causes of septic shock; severe hydronephrosis, nephrostomy tube itself, an increase of intrarenal pressure, bacteria in urinary stone, and hepatic failure. Based on the above suspected causes of septic shock, we suggested 3 prophylactic treatments for septic shock; a preventive administration of antibiotics before ESWL and percutaneous nephrostomy, proper management of nephrostomy tube, and early diagnosis and treatment for septic shock.
Examination of Doppler color ultrasound in patients with ESWL]	Although treatment by shock waves has been proven useful in destroying calculi, it is not free from complications and may cause lesions to the kidney whose importance has not been completely elucidated. The present study utilized color Doppler US to determine the changes produced by ESWL on the kidney and its vessels in particular. The results achieved by Doppler evaluation of 25 patients immediately before ESWL, 2, 7 and 30 days post-ESWL show an increased resistance index 2 days after treatment which tended to return to normal at 30 days. We discuss the different results obtained depending on stone location and the complications.
Our experience in endourology]	Exposition of the experience accrued over 8 years in endo-urological procedures performed to 303 patients divided in 2 groups: Lithiasic (Group I) and Non-lithiasic (Group II) patients. Ninety-two (92) percutaneous nephrostomies in 69 patients and 235 ureteroscopies in 234 patients were accomplished, removing 324 calculi and resolving other obstructive conditions. The rate of success was 85% and 98% for the percutaneous nephrostomies and ureteroscopies, respectively. Complications were reported in 7 patients after percutaneous nephrostomy and in 14 patients during ureteroscopy. Most of these complications resolved with the use of endoscopic techniques except in two patients who required open surgery. There were no deaths in the present series. The advantages of applying this technique over the conventional one are discussed.
