Experimental study of the efficiency of lithotripsy with duplicate pulses.	Theoretical study had shown that compared with a single pulse, a duplicate pulse could improve the efficiency of lithotripsy. We conducted a series of studies to validate this idea.
Urolithiasis associated with experimental lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus inoculation in Lewis rats.	A high frequency of struvite urolithiasis, hydronephrosis, and other urinary tract lesions developed in a group of Lewis rats inoculated intracranially with lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV). Initially, clinically ill rats were referred to necropsy: 30 rats over 3 years. These rats had high frequency of urolithiasis (8/30, 27%), hydronephrosis (12/30, 40%), cystitis (9/30, 30%), transitional cell carcinoma (4/30, 13%), and pyelonephritis (19/30, 63%). Lesions were more common in LCMV-inoculated rats. After this trend was noted, all rats on this protocol were necropsied as part of a cohort study (n = 144). Although the apparent frequency of disease was lower due to increased sampling, there still was a high number of urolithiasis (9/144, 6%) and hydronephrosis (40/144, 28%) cases. All cases of urolithiasis developed in rats inoculated with LCMV (9/44, 20%), as did most cases of hydronephrosis (31/44, 70%). Although sham-injected and uninoculated control rats also had high frequency of hydronephrosis (6/57 [11%] and 3/43 [7%], respectively), LCMV-inoculated rats had a significantly higher frequency of disease than did sham inoculated (P < 0.0001) and uninoculated (P < 0.0001) controls. These results suggest that Lewis rats may be predisposed to developing lesions of the urinary tract, and that intracranial inoculation of rats with LCMV augments this tendency, leading to formation of struvite calculi and associated urinary tract disease.
Orthotopic ileal neobladder giant stone in a female.	This article describes an unexpected case of a giant neobladder stone in a female that was diagnosed incidentally for a concurrent ovarian disease, without clinical or instrumental evidence of neobladder over distension. In July 1989, M.A., woman, 39-years old, underwent radical cystectomy, saving the uterus and the ovaries, and orthotopic ileal bladder substitution. Twelve years later she had symptoms of diffuse abdominal discomfort for about one month, without noticeable urinary symptoms or urinary retention. Enhanced CT and a subsequent MRI showed the presence of a 10 x 12.5 x 19 cm capsulated ovaric mass with sharp edges and associated obstructive bilateral hydroureteronephrosis, and an oval-shaped stone with a 10 cm longitudinal diameter, which occupied the majority of the neobladder cavity. The patient underwent surgical operation to remove the ovaric mass (fibrotecoma) and to extract the giant floating stone by a neocystotomy. Its dimensions were 10.5 x 7 x 7 cm, weighing 760 g. The stone was triple phosphate on chemical-physical analysis. The case reveals that neobladder stones can be associated with very few symptoms and if an appropriate follow-up is not performed they can become of remarkable dimensions.
Acute urinary tract toxicity of tetraethylorthosilicate in rats.	Acute stomach, kidney, and bladder toxicity was evaluated in F344 rats after gastric gavage of tetraethylorthosilicate (TES) at daily doses of 0, 0.111, 0.223, and 0.333 g. Five rats of each sex at each dose were sacrificed after 1, 2, and 4 days. In TES-treated groups, silicate accumulated in the stomach glands and the muscle layer of the forestomach and glandular stomach. Serum chemistries demonstrated acute onset of renal failure. In the kidneys, acute tubular necrosis, accumulation of silicates, and superficial necrotizing papillitis were observed. In the renal pelvis and bladder, there was urothelial simple hyperplasia, focal erosion of the mucosa, edema, and inflammation. These acute toxic changes were dose and time dependent, but significant sex differences were not observed. The microscopic changes in the urothelium were similar to those observed following administration of high doses of sodium saccharin to male rats in which urinary silicate precipitate and crystals form.
Composition analyses of bilateral urinary tract calculis]	To explore the composition of bilateral urinary tract calculi so as to guide treatments.
Large fibres in urinary calculi--promoters of stone formation.	Large fibres (phi 10-20 microns, length up to 5,000 microns) are sometimes imbedded in urinary calculi. It may be that these fibres can catch sediment particles and promote stone growth. By scanning electron microscopy the morphology of the fibres was studied as well as the relationship of the fibres with crystalline stone components. The reported findings suggest that the fibres are possibly formed in the tubuli as the result of an hitherto unknown defect.
Studies in urolithiasis. III. Electron optical investigation on the morphology of the colloidal matrix of urinary calculi.	An electron optical investigation of the morphology of the colloidal matrix of renal and vesical urinary calculi revealed the presence of several morphologic forms hitherto unknown. Earlier light microscopic studies indicated that the matrix exists either as fibrils or as an amorphous matrix. The electron micrographic scanning of specimens of calculi revealed the following matrix morphologies: (i) flaky, (ii) serrated, (iii) perforated (globular), (iv) hollow tubular, (v) fibrillar, (vi) cylindrical, and (vii) pear-drop shaped. Crystalline matter was not associated with flaky and serrated matrix particles. However, some matrix particles of perforated (globular), fibrillar, and cylindrical morphologies were found to be calcified.
Clinical manifestations of calcium oxalate monohydrate and dihydrate urolithiasis.	We studied retrospectively 155 patients with calcium oxalate urolithiasis. The patients were divided into 3 groups: 1) those with calcium oxalate monohydrate, 2) those with calcium oxalate dihydrate and 3) those with mixed calcium oxalate monohydrate and dihydrate. Various differences were noted between patients with calcium oxalate monohydrate and those with calcium oxalate dihydrate, with respect to stone characteristics, spontaneous passage of stones, stone recurrence and multiple occurrence. Most important, we noted that patients with calcium oxalate dihydrate had more stone recurrences than patients with calcium oxalate monohydrate.
