Determination of major, minor and trace elements in urinary stones by neutron activation analysis.	In five kinds of human urinary stones 18 elements have been identified by instrumental neutron activation analysis (INAA). From the results it may be concluded that calcium is the most important initiating cation, magnesium is the second most significant one, and Na, Cl, Sr, Zn, Fe, Br and Co may also play an important role in the stone formation. The results indicate also that ions like Ca, Br and Cu are easily incorporated into the nucleus to form a urate stone; Mg and Sr, into the nucleus to form a magnesium ammonium phosphate stone; and Zn, into the nucleus to form a calcium oxalate combined with apatite stone. The differences in elemental composition among the different kinds of stones as well as across the layers of stones are statistically evaluated.
Principal methods for studying the composition and structure of urinary calculi]	Since stones are the only objective elements of lithiasis, the cause of this disease can only be determined by an accurate analysis of the morphology and composition of the stones. To identify the crystal phases and the distribution of constituents between superficial and central structures such efficient techniques as scanning electron microscopy, X-ray diffraction or infrared spectroscopy are required. At least two complementary techniques must be combined to obtain enough information on the morphology as well as on the molecular and crystalline composition of the stones. The importance of morphological typing for the aetiological evaluation of the disease is demonstrated by examples which clearly show that each stone must first be examined optically. The different techniques used for the study of stones are reviewed and their relative efficiency and adaptability to routine analysis is discussed.
Chemolysis of cystine calculi.	Historically, cystine stone chemolysis has been approached with 2 different categories of compounds--alkalizing agents (sodium bicarbonate and tromethamine) and, more recently, protonated thiols and disulfide compounds (alpha-mercaptopropionylglycine, N-acetylcysteine and penicillamine). To establish the relative efficacy of these agents an in vitro model was devised that simulates the clinical setting. The optimal molar concentrations for sodium bicarbonate, N-acetylcysteine and tromethamine were determined initially and then compared at these strengths. Lastly, a variety of solution combinations were made to determine if a synergistic effect could be demonstrated. Results of this study demonstrate that the combination of acetylcysteine, a protonated thiol, with the strong alkalizing agent sodium hydroxide yields the most effective solution for chemolysis of cystine stones. The mechanism of action is believed to occur by a synergistic combination of the pH dependent increase in cystine solubility, with a simultaneously occurring thiol disulfide interchange.
Acute acid load in recurrent oxalate stone formers.	An acute acid load was used to evaluate potential chemical differences of urinary composition in recurrent oxalate stone formers and healthy controls. After intake of ammonium chloride, total calcium, ionized calcium and magnesium increased and citrate decreased significantly in both groups. Differences between stone formers and controls could be demonstrated from the excretion of total calcium, citrate, oxalate and uric acid only after acute acid load, whereas ionized calcium did not improve discrimination. These findings support the stone-promoting role of high acid food as well as the possibility of discriminating recurrent oxalate stone formers from controls by an acute acid-loading test.
Dietary management in urolithiasis in the dog.	Struvite uroliths are found more frequently than other types of uroliths in the urinary tracts of dogs. Medical dissolution of struvite uroliths with a Swedish calculolythic diet has been evaluated. The palatability of the diet was good and only two out of a total of 69 dogs in the study could not be maintained on the diet because of diarrhea. In 19 of 33 dogs medically treated, the uroliths were dissolved over a period of one to 6 months (mean time 2.5 months). In the remaining dogs uroliths were surgically removed, and calculolytic diet was postoperatively given. Consumption of the calculolytic diet was in most cases associated with a lowered specific gravity and pH of the urine. A representative case report of medical dissolution of struvite uroliths located in the urinary bladder of a 9 year-old female cocker spaniel with a history of recurrent urolithiasis is described. It is concluded that the Swedish calculolytic diet can be used successfully to dissolve struvite in adults dogs.
Clinical results in the treatment of therapy-resistant calcium-stone formers with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs.	Long-lasting success was obtained in the treatment of 8 therapy-resistant, frequently relapsing calcium-stone formers with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). Over the period of treatment the rate of stone formation decreased markedly in these patients. Until now 3 test persons have exhibited only partial success with NSAID treatment. Diclofenac-Na as single-drug therapy or in combination with thiazide preparations or indomethacin is presented as a novel therapeutic possibility, the influence of NSAID on pathomechanism of calcium-stone formation is discussed.
Measurement of the risk of calcium phosphate crystallization in urine.	A method is described for analysis of the risk of calcium phosphate (CaP) crystallization in urine samples. The pH required for formation of 500 crystals in the size range 3.5 to 5 micron (pHCaP) was determined in a Coulter Counter following addition of sodium hydroxide. The risk of CaP crystallization (CaP-CR) was defined as: 1/(pHCaP--5.8). CaP-CR was determined in 24 h urine collections from 25 patients with calcium stone disease and 26 normal subjects, each urine diluted to a creatinine concentration of 5 mumol per ml. The mean (+/- SD) CaP-CR was 0.71 +/- 0.18 and 0.63 +/- 0.14 respectively and did not differ significantly. This method might be useful for evaluations and follow-up of stone formers with respect to the risk of CaP precipitation and stone formation.
Computer-aided infrared analysis of urinary calculi.	We have created a library of 497 digitized infrared spectra of 58 components of urinary calculi and of their usual binary and ternary mixtures. We tested the operation of the "Birsy" search program (Bruker Analytische Messtechnik) with this library for the interpretation of infrared spectra of 50 urinary calculi, selected from both classical and difficult cases. This program correctly identifies the two first components 98% of the time and the third (minor) component 70% of the time. Using this program, those without training or experience in infrared analysis can routinely use the infrared method of analysis of urinary calculi.
In vitro dissolution of cystine urinary calculi.	Dissolution of cystine urinary calculi was studied in vitro. Sodium hydroxide, acetylcysteine and tris(hydroxymethyl)aminomethane (tromethamine) were tested for effectiveness in dissolving cystine calculi. Calculi were mounted in a dissolution apparatus. Dissolution rates were calculated from the amount of cystine released into solution per unit time and were compared with linear regression techniques. Calculated dissolution rates of all the irrigating agents tested were similar at a pH of 7.5 and were significantly different at pH 10.0. The most effective agent in the promotion of cystine dissolution was 2 per cent acetylcysteine. Sprague-Dawley rats were used to test the effect of 2 per cent acetylcysteine, 0.3 molar tromethamine and 2 per cent acetylcysteine mixed with 0.3 molar tromethamine on the urothelium. A nephrostomy tube was placed in the left kidney of each rat. The kidneys were irrigated for 3 days with either 2 per cent acetylcysteine, 0.3 molar tromethamine or 2 per cent acetylcysteine mixed with 0.3 molar tromethamine. The rats then were sacrificed at various intervals after infusion. Irrigation with 2 per cent acetylcysteine at a pH of 10 caused an acute inflammatory response at 3 days that was healed almost completely in 4 weeks. The addition of tromethamine to the acetylcysteine did not prevent the inflammatory response.
