Elasticity of normal and cancerous human bladder cells studied by scanning force microscopy.	Scanning force microscopy was used for the determination of the elastic properties of living cells in their culture conditions. The studies were carried out on human epithelial cells. Two similar lines of normal cells (Hu609 and HCV29) and three cancerous ones (Hu456, T24, BC3726) were measured using the scanning force microscope in order to collect the force versus indentation curves. The BC3726 line originates from the HCV29 cell line which was transformed by the v-ras oncogene. To evaluate their elastic properties, Young's modulus values were determined. The present study has shown that normal cells have a Young's modulus of about one order of magnitude higher than cancerous ones. Such a change might be attributed to a difference in the organisation of cell cytoskeletons and requires further studies.
Laparoscopic replacement of urinary tract segments using biodegradable materials in a large-animal model.	We elected to evaluate laparoscopic segmental bladder and ureteral replacement with free biodegradable graft materials in a large-animal model.
Antifibrinolytic additives to fibrin glue for laparoscopic wound closure in urinary tract.	Fibrinolytic activity of urine may rapidly degrade fibrin glue used in the urinary tract, thereby limiting tissue adhesion. The goals of this study were to verify the ability of antifibrinolytic agents to delay the degradation of fibrin glue in the urinary tract and to assess the results of this delay on subsequent wound healing.
Fibroblast growth factor-7 regulates stratification of the bladder urothelium.	The cellular and molecular mechanisms that regulate the organization of bladder urothelium into basal, intermediate and superficial cell layers remain poorly understood. We tested the hypothesis that fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-7 is essential for generating a multilayered stratified bladder epithelium.
cGMP abolishes agonist-induced [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations in human bladder epithelial cells.	Cytosolic calcium oscillations may permit cells to respond to information provided by increases in intracellular Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca(2+)](i) ) while avoiding prolonged exposure to constantly elevated [Ca(2+)](i). In this study, we demonstrated that agonists could induce Ca(2+) oscillations in human bladder epithelial cells. Application of 10 microM acetylcholine or 200 nM bradykinin triggered an initial Ca(2+) transient that was followed by periodic [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations. The oscillations did not depend on extracellular Ca(2+). 8-Bromoguanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate abolished acetylcholine- or bradykinin-induced oscillations. Elevation of cellular cGMP by dipyridamole, an inhibitor of cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase, also terminated the [Ca(2+)](i) oscillations. The inhibitory effect of cGMP could be reversed by KT-5823, a highly specific inhibitor of protein kinase G (PKG), suggesting that the action of cGMP was mediated by PKG. Comparison of the effect of cGMP with that of xestospongin C, an inhibitor of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptor, revealed similarities between the action of cGMP and xestospongin C. Therefore, it is likely that cGMP and PKG may target a signal transduction step(s) linked to IP(3) receptor-mediated Ca(2+) release.
Analysis of hydrostatic pressure-induced changes in umbrella cell surface area.	All cells experience and respond to external mechanical stimuli including shear stress, compression, and hydrostatic pressure. Cellular responses can include changes in exocytic and endocytic traffic. An excellent system to study how extracellular forces govern membrane trafficking events is the bladder umbrella cell, which lines the inner surface of the mammalian urinary bladder. It is hypothesized that umbrella cells modulate their apical plasma membrane surface area in response to hydrostatic pressure. Understanding the mechanics of this process is hampered by the lack of a suitable model system. We describe a pressure chamber that allows one to increase hydrostatic pressure in a physiological manner while using capacitance to monitor real-time changes in the apical surface area of the umbrella cell. It is demonstrated that application of hydrostatic pressure results in an increase in umbrella cell apical surface area and a change in the morphology of umbrella cells from roughly cuboidal to squamous. This process is dependent on increases in cytoplasmic Ca(2+). This system will be useful in further dissecting the mechanotransduction pathways involved in cell shape change and regulation of exocytic and endocytic traffic in umbrella cells.
The effect of ovariectomy and estradiol on rabbit bladder smooth muscle contraction and morphology.	The bladder can be considered a target organ for the actions of estrogen. Decreases in circulating estrogen after menopause have been associated with bladder dysfunctions, including incontinence and detrusor instability. We determined the effects of estrogen on rabbit bladder contractile function and morphology.
The cysteinyl-leukotriene D4 induces cytosolic Ca2+ elevation and contraction of the human detrusor muscle.	The role of intracellular Ca2+ in the activation of human detrusor smooth muscle cells (SMCs) is pivotal. Recently we showed that the mast cell derived pro-inflammatory mediator leukotriene D(4) (LTD(4)) induces increase in intracellular free Ca2+ ([Ca2+](i)) in human detrusor myocytes. In the current study we examined the mechanisms underlying LTD(4) induced increase in [Ca2+](i) and tested whether LTD(4) induces muscle contraction by measuring force development in human detrusor tissue.
Chromosome losses in tumorigenic revertants of EJ/ras-expressing somatic cell hybrids.	Tumorigenic transformation of SV40-immortalized human uroepithelial cells (SV-HUC) after transfection with EJ/ras was previously reported to be a rare event. To test the hypothesis that ras transformation requires loss of suppressor genes, somatic cell hybrids were generated between a rare tumorigenic transformant and an isogeneic nontumorigenic EJ/ras transfectant obtained in the same experiment. Both parental cell lines, as well as all hybrid progeny, expressed mutant p21 ras protein, but injections of three such independent hybrids into athymic nude mice at passage (P) 4 demonstrated that tumorigenicity was suppressed at 20 of 22 sites. Two tumors developed, after a relatively long 17-week latent period, as compared with a 4-week latent period for the tumorigenic parent. All three hybrids produced tumors at P8, but these showed different latent periods (3-14 weeks). Revertant hybrid tumors were high-grade carcinomas. Cell lines derived from these tumors expressed mutant p21 ras and retained at least 1 EJ/ras integration site. Karyotypic analysis of six independent hybrid tumor revertants showed that each had a unique clonal karyotype. Losses of two or more homologues of 1p, 3p, 4, 8, 10p, 11p, 13q, and 18 were identified in one or more tumorigenic revertants. Losses of all these chromosomes were previously associated with transformation of SV-HUC by EJ/ras, but were also associated with chemical transformation of SV-HUC in tumors that did not express mutant ras. Genetic losses involving most of these chromosomes have also been identified in clinical bladder cancers (i.e., 1p, 3p, 8, 11p, 13 and 18q). These data show that expression of EJ/ras does not negate or significantly alter requirements for multiple genetic losses in HUC tumorigenesis.
RYR2 proteins contribute to the formation of Ca(2+) sparks in smooth muscle.	Calcium release through ryanodine receptors (RYR) activates calcium-dependent membrane conductances and plays an important role in excitation-contraction coupling in smooth muscle. The specific RYR isoforms associated with this release in smooth muscle, and the role of RYR-associated proteins such as FK506 binding proteins (FKBPs), has not been clearly established, however. FKBP12.6 proteins interact with RYR2 Ca(2+) release channels and the absence of these proteins predictably alters the amplitude and kinetics of RYR2 unitary Ca(2+) release events (Ca(2+) sparks). To evaluate the role of specific RYR2 and FBKP12.6 proteins in Ca(2+) release processes in smooth muscle, we compared spontaneous transient outward currents (STOCs), Ca(2+) sparks, Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release, and Ca(2+) waves in smooth muscle cells freshly isolated from wild-type, FKBP12.6(-/-), and RYR3(-/-) mouse bladders. Consistent with a role of FKBP12.6 and RYR2 proteins in spontaneous Ca(2+) sparks, we show that the frequency, amplitude, and kinetics of spontaneous, transient outward currents (STOCs) and spontaneous Ca(2+) sparks are altered in FKBP12.6 deficient myocytes relative to wild-type and RYR3 null cells, which were not significantly different from each other. Ca(2+) -induced Ca(2+) release was similarly augmented in FKBP12.6(-/-), but not in RYR3 null cells relative to wild-type. Finally, Ca(2+) wave speed evoked by CICR was not different in RYR3 cells relative to control, indicating that these proteins are not necessary for normal Ca(2+) wave propagation. The effect of FKBP12.6 deletion on the frequency, amplitude, and kinetics of spontaneous and evoked Ca(2+) sparks in smooth muscle, and the finding of normal Ca(2+) sparks and CICR in RYR3 null mice, indicate that Ca(2+) release through RYR2 molecules contributes to the formation of spontaneous and evoked Ca(2+) sparks, and associated STOCs, in smooth muscle.
Collagenous matrices as release carriers of exogenous growth factors.	We have investigated the use of natural and synthetic collagenous matrices as carriers of exogenous growth factors. A bladder acellular matrix (BAM) was processed from rat bladder and compared with sponge matrix of porcine type 1 collagen. The lyophilized matrices were rehydrated by the aqueous solutions of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), hepatocyte growth factor (HGF), platelet derived growth factor-BB (PDGF-BB), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), insulin like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and heparin binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor (HB-EGF), to obtain the matrix incorporating each growth factor. The rehydration method enabled the growth factor protein to distribute into the matrix homogeneously. In vivo release test in the mouse subcutis revealed that, the property of BAM for growth factor release was similar to that of collagen sponge. Among the growth factors examined, bFGF release was the most sustained, followed by HGF and PDGF-BB. bFGF released from the two matrices showed similar in vivo angiogenic activity at the mouse subcutis in a dose-dependent manner. These findings demonstrate that the collagenous matrices function as release carriers of growth factors. This feature is promising to create a scaffold, which has a nature to control the tissue regeneration actively.
Over expression of smooth muscle specific caldesmon by transfection and intermittent agonist induced contraction alters cellular morphology and restores differentiated smooth muscle phenotype.	The thin filament associated protein h-caldesmon (h-CaD) modulates actin myosin interaction and contraction. Bladder outlet obstruction and detrusor hypertrophy are associated with the over expression of the nonmuscle CaD isoform l-CaD. It implies a poorly differentiated state of bladder myocytes and cytoskeletal remodeling in detrusor hypertrophy. We determined if h-CaD expression can be increased in a unique bladder smooth muscle (BSM) cell line derived from obstructed rabbit bladder smooth muscle that over expresses l-CaD. We examined whether the genetic restoration of h-caldesmon is possible in bladder smooth muscle cells by transfection or by agonist mediated contraction and whether this manipulation would alter cellular morphology.
Serratia marcescens internalization and replication in human bladder epithelial cells.	Serratia marcescens, a frequent agent of catheterization-associated bacteriuria, strongly adheres to human bladder epithelial cells in culture. The epithelium normally provides a barrier between lumal organisms and the interstitium; the tight adhesion of bacteria to the epithelial cells can lead to internalization and subsequent lysis. However, internalisation was not shown yet for S. marcescens strains.
Ca2+ sensitization in contraction of human bladder smooth muscle.	The role of Ca2+ sensitization in the contraction of human bladder urinary smooth muscle (UBSM) was investigated.
Regulation of connective tissue growth factor (CTGF/CCN2) gene transcription and mRNA stability in smooth muscle cells. Involvement of RhoA GTPase and p38 MAP kinase and sensitivity to actin dynamics.	Connective tissue growth factor (CTGF/CCN2) is an immediate early gene-encoded polypeptide modulating cell growth and collagen synthesis. The importance of CTGF/CCN2 function is highlighted by its disregulation in fibrotic disorders. In this study, we investigated the regulation and signaling pathways that are required for various stimuli of intracellular signaling events to induce the expression of the endogenous CTGF/CCN2 gene in smooth muscle cells. Incubation with the bioactive lysolipid sphingosine 1-phosphate (S1P) produced a threefold increase, whereas stimulation with either fetal bovine serum or anisomycin induced an even stronger activation (eightfold) of CTGF/CCN2 expression. Using a combination of pathway-specific inhibitors and mutant forms of signaling molecules, we found that S1P- and fetal bovine serum-induced CTGF/CCN2 expression were dependent on both RhoA GTPase and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase transduction pathways, whereas the effects of anisomycin largely involved p38 and phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase signaling mechanisms. However, activation via these signaling events was absolutely dependent on actin cytoskeleton integrity. In particular, RhoA-dependent regulation of the CTGF/CCN2 gene was concomitant to increased polymerization of actin microfilaments resulting in decreased G- to F-actin ratio and appeared to be achieved at the transcriptional level. The p38 signaling pathway was RhoA-independent and led to CTGF/CCN2 mRNA stabilization. Use of actin-binding drugs showed that the actual physical state of monomeric G-actin is a critical determinant for CTGF/CCN2 gene induction. These data indicate that distinct cytoskeletally based signaling events within the intracellular signaling machinery affect either transcriptionally or post-transcriptionally the expression of the CTGF/CCN2 gene in smooth muscle cells.
Establishment of immortalized cell line BLTR-4 and primary identification of its biological character]	To establish immortalized cell line from the urothelium of the urinary bladder and identify the characteristics of the cell line.
Colonic inflammation increases Na+ currents in bladder sensory neurons.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether sensitization of pre-spinal afferents induced by colonic inflammation can affect the physiology of the urinary bladder. Tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-R) Na+ currents were examined in bladder sensory neurons after experimental colitis. Cell bodies of bladder dorsal root ganglia were retrogradely labeled and TTX-R Na+ currents were recorded in capsaicin-sensitive neurons. Colitis significantly enhanced response of bladder neurons to capsaicin by approximately 60% and the peak amplitude of TTX-R Na+ current by 51%. These results suggest that colonic inflammation leads to increased excitability of nociceptive bladder neurons.
In vitro growth of human urinary tract smooth muscle cells on laminin and collagen type I-coated membranes under static and dynamic conditions.	This study investigates in vitro growth of human urinary tract smooth muscle cells under static conditions and mechanical stimulation. The cells were cultured on collagen type I- and laminin-coated silicon membranes. Using a Flexcell device for mechanical stimulation, a cyclic strain of 0-20% was applied in a strain-stress-time model (stretch, 104 min relaxation, 15 s), imitating physiological bladder filling and voiding. Cell proliferation and alpha-actin, calponin, and caldesmon phenotype marker expression were analyzed. Nonstretched cells showed significant better growth on laminin during the first 8 days, thereafter becoming comparable to cells grown on collagen type I. Cyclic strain significantly reduced cell growth on both surfaces; however, better growth was observed on laminin. Neither the type of surface nor mechanical stimulation influenced the expression pattern of phenotype markers; alpha-actin was predominantly expressed. Coating with the extracellular matrix protein laminin improved in vitro growth of human urinary tract smooth muscle cells.
The effect of age on the response of the detrusor to intracellular mechanical stimulus: DNA replication and the cell actin matrix.	Benign prostatic hypertrophy and posterior urethral valves present at both extremes of the age spectrum. Both disease processes can obstruct the urinary stream and ultimately have pathophysiological effects on detrusor structure and function. The mechanisms regulating the structural reorganization of the detrusor to a mechanical outflow obstruction are not known. In an attempt to identify maturational differences in myocyte ultrastructure and consequent effects these might have in modifying the response of the detrusor to mechanical stimulus, we studied differences in dynamic nuclear-cytoskeletal interactions in detrusor tissue in an animal model. Using a drug which specifically severs actin, cytochalasin D (CD), as an intracellular mechanical stimulus, we measured changes in nuclear area and the rate of DNA synthesis in detrusor myocytes from young (2-3 week) and old (8-12 mon) guinea pigs. We found that there were age specific differences to intracellular mechanical stimuli in detrusor muscle. Nuclei of myocytes from young animals showed elastic recoil on severing the cell actin matrix and the tissue from young animals increased replicative DNA synthesis with an intracellular stimulus. In contrast, nuclear shape changes in myocytes from old animals suggested less elasticity, and there was no increase in DNA synthesis with disruption of the cell actin matrix. Anti-alpha-smooth muscle actin antibody and rhodamine phalloidin staining of actin in cytochalasin D treated primary explants of detrusor myocytes showed dose dependent disruption of the actin component of the cytoskeleton. These results suggest that there are fundamental modifications in detrusor myocyte ultrastructure with age. These maturational changes might result in differences in the pathophysiological and structural reorganization of the detrusor in response to outflow obstruction in infancy and adulthood. Furthermore, they suggest that 1) a tensile equilibrium exists between the myocyte nucleus and cytoskeleton; 2) there appears to be a decrease in myocyte nuclear elasticity with ageing; 3) release of nuclear template restrictions increases activity of DNA polymerase alpha in young, but not old, detrusor myocytes; and 4) mechanico-chemical signal transduction in detrusor myocytes may be mediated via the cytoskeleton. In addition, based on previous reports of actin within the nucleus, the results suggest that 1) nuclear actin may have a homeostatic structural role, maintaining the tensile equilibrium between nucleus and cytoskeleton, and 2) integrity of nuclear actin may function to maintain the spatial template restriction on DNA polymerase alpha activity.
Water and nonelectrolyte permeabilities of apical membranes of toad urinary bladder granular cells.	Certain types of epithelial cells such as those lining the toad urinary bladder have been classified as "tight" because their apical membranes exhibit low permeabilities to water, ions, and small nonelectrolytes. However, the permeability properties and structural features of these specialized apical membranes remain unclear because these membranes have never been purified. To isolate toad bladder granular cell apical membranes, we derivatized the bladder apical surface with the membrane-impermeant bifunctional reagent N-hydroxysulfosuccinimydyl-S,S-biotin (NHS-SS-biotin). After cell disruption, these derivatized apical membranes were purified using streptavidin-coated magnetic beads in a magnetic field. With the use of lactoperoxidase-mediated radioiodination as a marker for apical membrane, this preparative procedure purified apical membrane 48- or 72-fold as compared with homogenate. Thin section electron microscopy revealed unilamellar vesicles with some nonvesiculated membranes, while fragments of organelles such as mitochondria were absent. Water and nonelectrolyte permeabilities of purified apical membrane vesicles were similar to those obtained in intact bladders in the absence of antidiuretic hormone stimulation. The results demonstrate that isolated apical vesicles do not contain water channels and confirm the applicability of Overton's rule to the apical membrane of the toad urinary bladder. The technique has general applicability to isolation of other plasma membranes, and the apical membranes obtained are suitable for structural analysis.
Feasibility of muscle-derived cell autotransplantation as a treatment for post-prostatectomy urinary incontinence]	To explore the feasibility of muscle-derived cell autotransplantation in the treatment of post-prostatectomy urinary incontinence.
The inhibitory effect of ciprofloxacin on proliferation of a murine bladder carcinoma cell line.	Ciprofloxacin was tested for its effect on proliferation of a bladder carcinoma cell line, Jurkat T-cell leukaemia cell line and a normal human foreskin derived from a fibroblast cell line. Cell proliferation was measured by MTT tetrazolium salt colorimetric assay. Proliferation of bladder carcinoma cells was inhibited by ciprofloxacin in a dose and time dependent fashion. Initial inhibition was observed at a concentration of 25 mg/L (approximately 35% inhibition; P greater than 0.01) while 250 mg/L of ciprofloxacin, a concentration achievable in urine following conventional oral treatment, exerted a lytic effect on these cells. A maximum suppressive effect on cell proliferation was reached within the first 24 h of ciprofloxacin addition to cell cultures. The rate of reversal of the inhibition of proliferation was dependent on the initial drug concentration. Exposure of bladder carcinoma cell cultures to 250 mg/L ciprofloxacin resulted in irreversible inhibition of proliferation. Similar results were obtained for the fibroblast cell line and Jurkat T-cell line. The latter being slightly more sensitive towards ciprofloxacin treatment in vitro.
In vitro study of the effect of hyperthermia on normal bladder cell line and on five different transitional cell carcinoma cell lines.	Intraluminal hyperthermia is potentially useful in the management of superficial bladder cancer. The potential inhibitory effect of hyperthermia on various human bladder cancer cell lines, normal human bladder cells and the murine MBT-2 bladder cancer cell line has been studied in vitro. These cell lines were exposed for one hour to 43 +/- 0.5C and compared to controls. Cell survival was assessed comparing the cell growth curve and colony formation. The human transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) cell lines vary in their sensitivity to heat. MGH-U1 was the most heat sensitive cell line. The human A-1698, CUB-2, UM-UC-3 and the murine MBT-2 lines were heat insensitive. We conclude that the cytocidal effect of hyperthermia in bladder transitional cell carcinoma is variable. Further experiments using the combination of hyperthermia and intravesical anticancer agents are in progress.
Experimental aerosol infection of cattle (Bos taurus) with ovine herpesvirus 2 using nasal secretions from infected sheep.	Infection of clinically susceptible ruminants, including domesticated cattle and American bison, with ovine herpesvirus 2 (OvHV-2) can result in the fatal lymphoproliferative and vasculitis syndrome known as malignant catarrhal fever (MCF). A reliable experimental infection model is needed to study the pathogenesis of MCF and to develop effective vaccination strategies to control the disease. An experimental aerosol infection model using sheep, the natural carriers of OvHV-2, has been developed (Taus et al., 2005). Using the protocol and OvHV-2 inoculum established in the previous study, eight calves were nebulized with four different doses of OvHV-2 in nasal secretions from infected sheep. Two control calves were nebulized with nasal secretions from uninfected sheep. Infection status of all calves was monitored using competitive inhibition ELISA, PCR and clinical parameters. Six of eight nebulized calves became infected with OvHV-2. One calf receiving the highest dose of virus developed typical clinical, gross and histological changes of MCF. This study showed that nasal secretions collected from sheep experiencing OvHV-2 shedding episodes were infectious for cattle and capable of inducing MCF. The data also indicate that cattle are relatively resistant to disease following infection. The use of more susceptible species as experimental animal models, such as bison and selected cervid species should be examined.
Maturation of intracellular Escherichia coli communities requires SurA.	Escherichia coli is the most common cause of community-acquired urinary tract infection (UTI). During murine cystitis, uropathogenic E. coli (UPEC) utilizes type 1 pili to bind and invade superficial bladder epithelial cells. UPEC then replicates within to form intracellular bacterial communities (IBCs), a process whose genetic determinants are as yet undefined. In this study, we investigated the role of SurA in the UPEC pathogenic cascade. SurA is a periplasmic prolyl isomerase/chaperone that facilitates outer membrane protein biogenesis and pilus assembly in E. coli. Invasion into bladder epithelial cells was disproportionately reduced when surA was genetically disrupted in the UPEC strain UTI89, demonstrating that binding alone is not sufficient for invasion. In a murine cystitis model, UTI89 surA::kan was unable to persist in the urinary tract. Complementation of UTI89 surA::kan with a plasmid (pDH15) containing surA under the control of an arabinose-inducible promoter restored in vivo binding and invasion events. However, the absence of arabinose within the mouse bladder resulted in depletion of SurA after invasion of the bacteria into the superficial epithelial cells. Under these conditions, invasion by UTI89/pDH15 surA::kan was normal, but in contrast to UTI89, UTI89/pDH15 surA::kan formed intracellular collections that contained fewer bacteria, were loosely organized, and lacked the normal transition to a densely packed, coccoid morphology. Our data argue that SurA is required within bladder epithelial cells for UPEC to undergo the morphological changes that underlie IBC maturation and completion of the UTI pathogenic cascade.
Mechanotransduction of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 mitogen-activated protein kinase activity in smooth muscle is dependent on the extracellular matrix and regulated by matrix metalloproteinases.	Excessive wall stretch of distensible hollow organs in cardiovascular and urinary systems can activate matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), thereby releasing matrix neoepitopes and growth factor ligands, leading to ERK1/2 activation. However, the role of MMPs in mechanotransduction of ERK1/2 signaling in the bladder is unknown. We examined bladders undergoing sustained distension over time, which provides a novel platform for smooth muscle mechanotransduction studies. Bladder distension ex vivo caused increased proliferation and MMP activity. Conditioned medium from distended compared with undistended bladders induced proliferation in bladder smooth muscle cells (BSMCs). When conditioned medium from distended bladders was used to proteolyze collagen type I matrices, matrices augmented BSMC proliferation, which was inhibited if bladders were distended in presence of broad-spectrum MMP inhibitors. Distension of ex vivo bladders also induced ERK1/2 phosphorylation in situ, which was dependent on MMP activity in the intact bladder. Similarly, stretching BSMCs in vitro induced increases in ERK1/2 activation and ERK1/2-dependent proliferation under discrete mechanical conditions, and distension conditioned medium itself induced MMP-dependent ERK1/2 activation in BSMCs. Overall, stretch-induced proliferation and ERK1/2 signaling in bladder tissue and BSMCs likely depend on secreted MMP activity. Identification of intermediaries between MMPs and ERK1/2 may elaborate novel mechanisms underlying mechanotransduction in bladder smooth muscle.
Carbonic anhydrase in turtle bladder mitochondrial-rich luminal and subluminal cells.	Bladders from March-April turtles were processed for carbonic anhydrase (CA) cytochemically using the method of D.A. Riley, S. Ellis, and J. Bain (Neuroscience 13: 189, 1984). CA-positive cells comprised 11.1 +/- 0.7% of mucosal epithelial cells. Microplicated (MP) cells comprised 47.2 +/- 1.8% of CA-positive cells and displayed at least two distinct staining patterns: the first was characterized by reaction product that filled the luminal one-third, including the terminal web and microplicae. These cells possessed extensive microplicae, a morphological feature of ongoing H+ secretion. The second was characterized by reaction product distributed throughout cells, excluding the terminal web and microplicae, with greatest intensity in the luminal one-third below the terminal web. These cells possessed flattened microplicae, a morphological feature of diminished H+ secretion. Microvillated (MV) cells comprised 6.0 +/- 1.0% of CA-reactive cells. The basal layer was occupied by 46.8 +/- 1.7% of CA-positive cells, which were termed subluminal (SL) cells. SL cells were mitochondrial rich and did not contact the lumen. Extracellular CA staining was common between the lateral margins of contiguous mitochondrial-rich or non-mitochondrial-rich cells.
Carbonic anhydrase and proton secretion in turtle bladder mitochondrial-rich cells.	Bladders from actively feeding turtles were processed for carbonic anhydrase (CA) cytochemically. CA-positive cells were identified as microplicated (MP) cells, microvillated (MV) cells, and subluminal (SL) cells. After acute enhancement of H+ secretion with 5% CO2, MP cells displayed extensive microplicae and a reduced density of apical subplasmalemmal vesicles, and they were CA reactive throughout a large part of the cytoplasm including the microplicae. After acute inhibition of H+ secretion with a pH 4.5 mucosal bath, CA staining was excluded from the microplicae and apical subplasmalemmal region of most MP cells, whereas microplicae varied from extensive to reduced, and subapical vesicle density remained elevated. MV cells were characterized by basolateral staining with sparing of the MV and apical subplasmalemmal region in all settings except 1) after 5% CO2 and 2) when MV cells were found in areas in which MP cells were stained to the lumen. These results indicate that CA is active at the site of H+ secretion in MP cells and is correlated with the acute acid-base status of the bladder.
(Poly)acrylonitrile-based hydrogel as a therapeutic bulking agent in urology.	Vesicoureteral reflux and urinary incontinence can be treated by endoscopic injection. Injectables such as collagen and hyaluronic acid-dextranomer are commonly used, however are not offering optimal therapeutic effect yet. In the present study a novel application for poly(acrylonitrile)-based hydrogel (Hypan), already tested in other clinical indications, has been investigated for its aptitude as an injectable bulking agent. This non-degradable, extremely hydrophilic hydrogel has the capacity of a 6-fold swelling once implanted into the body, assuring the bulking effect. Deposits of this bulking agent have been implanted into the submucosal space of the bladder of 6 minipigs and the histological reaction, as well as the physical implant behavior have been studied over a time period of 6 months. The implants have developed the desired bulking effect by the above-described hydrophilic swelling. They have been enclosed into a fine fibrous tissue capsule and provoked a very limited inflammatory reaction. This study has showed that poly(acrylonitrile)-based hydrogel implants injected into the bladder are well tolerated and, due to their defined bulking ability, feasible for the treatment of vesico-ureteral reflux and urinary incontinence. To determine the therapeutic efficiency of this treatment the implants will be studied in a vesicoureteral reflux and urinary incontinence animal model.
Smooth muscle caveolae differentially regulate specific agonist induced bladder contractions.	Caveolae are cholesterol-rich plasmalemmal microdomains that serve as sites for sequestration of signaling proteins and thus may facilitate, organize, and integrate responses to extracellular stimuli. While previous studies in the bladder have demonstrated alterations in caveolae with particular physiologic or pathologic conditions, little attention has been focused on the functional significance of these organelles. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the role of caveolae in the modulation of receptor-mediated signal transduction and determine the presence and localization of caveolin proteins in bladder tissue.
Amniotic fluid and bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells can be converted to smooth muscle cells in the cryo-injured rat bladder and prevent compensatory hypertrophy of surviving smooth muscle cells.	Wound healing of the cryo-injured bladder can bring about organ remodeling because of incomplete reconstitution of depleted smooth muscle cells. Stem cell transplantation could be beneficial to improve smooth muscle cell regeneration and/or modulate the remodeling process. The repair of bladder injury using adult-type stem cells would be useful for adult urological patients but unsuited for neonatal patients, in whom major benefits are likely to derive from fetal-type stem cells.
Effects of the myotoxic Lys49 phospholipase A2 from Agkistrodon contortrix laticinctus snake venom on water transport in the toad bladder epithelium: evidence for a role of microtubules and calmodulin.	ACLMT is a myotoxic Lys49 phospholipase A2 isolated from the venom of the snake Agkistrodon contortrix laticinctus. We have previously demonstrated that ACLMT affects the water transport in toad bladders through a mechanism partially mediated by an increase in the cytosolic calcium. This study aims to further investigate the sites and mechanisms involved in the effects of ACLMT on water transport in toad bladders by examining the role of microtubules and calmodulin. Water flow across the membrane was gravimetrically measured in bladder sac preparations. ACLMT increased basal water transport and inhibited water transport stimulated by vasopressin. Colchicine and trifluoperazine reduced the effect of the toxin on basal water transport and enhanced it on vasopressin-stimulated water transport. The results suggest that both microtubules and calmodulin may be involved in the effect of ACLMT on basal water transport. On the other hand, the effect of the toxin on vasopressin-stimulated water transport appears to be neither dependent on the microtubules integrity nor directly mediated by calmodulin. This study provides a deeper understanding of the effects of the Lys49 PLA2 myotoxins on membrane permeability, thus contributing to elucidate the toxicity mechanism of these myotoxins on biological tissues.
Polybrominated diphenyl ethers from the Indonesian sponge Lamellodysidea herbacea.	Four new (1-4) and 10 known polybrominated diphenyl ethers (5-14) have been isolated from the title sponge. The structures of the new entities were elucidated by interpretation of spectroscopic data and chemical transformations. These metabolites showed potent antimicrobial activity against Bacillus subtilis and moderate/weak cytotoxicity against NBT-T2 rat bladder epithelial cells. The major constituent 14 was treated under debromination conditions to give eight derivatives, which were subjected to a structure-activity relationship study. The results indicated that the presence of two phenolic hydroxyl groups and bromines at C-2 and/or C-5, as in 2, is important for the exhibition of antibacterial activity.
Acetic acid opens large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels in guinea pig detrusor smooth muscle cells.	Acetic acid was found to have actions on urinary bladder smooth muscle in our routine ion channel screening assays. Numerous studies have examined the mechanisms of bladder irritation by acetic acid; however, the direct effect of acetic acid on ion channels in detrusor smooth muscle cells has not been evaluated. We used whole-cell patch-clamp techniques to examine the effect of acetic acid on large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels (BKCa) from guinea pig detrusor smooth muscle cells and CHO cells expressing recombinant human BKCaalphabeta1 (CHO BKCaalphabeta1) and human BKCaalpha (CHO BKCaalpha). Acetic acid activated BKCa currents in a concentration-dependent (0.01% to 0.05% v/v) manner in all the cell systems studied. Acetic acid (0.05%) increased BKCa current at +30 mV by 2764+/-918% (n=8) in guinea pig detrusor smooth muscle cells. Acetic acid (0.03%) shifted the V1/2 of conductance-voltage curve by 64+/-14 (n=5), 128+/-14 (n=5), and 126+/-12 mV (n=4) in CHO BKCaalpha, CHO BKCaalphabeta1 and detrusor smooth muscle cells, respectively. This effect of acetic acid was found to be independent of pH and was also not produced by its salt form, sodium acetate. Automated patch-clamp experiments also showed similar activation of CHO BKCaalphabeta1 by acetic acid. In conclusion, acetic acid directly activates BKCa channels in detrusor smooth muscle cells. This novel study necessitates caution while interpreting the results from acetic acid bladder irritation model.
Age-related changes in urinary bladder intramural neurons.	A quantitative morphometric evaluation of the intramural plexus of the urinary bladder of adult and aged guinea-pigs was performed by histological analysis, scanning electron microscopy, and hystochemical methods, such as NADH-diaphorase and acetylcholinesterase (AChE). The round or oval shaped intramural neurons were revealed among the bundles of the smooth detrusor muscle in clusters containing a variable number of cells in the groups. In both adult control and aged animals, the ganglia were enveloped by a ganglionar capsule of connective tissue mainly composed of type I collagen fibers. The number of neurons NADH-diaphorase positives estimated in the intramural plexus was 1433+/-187.71 and 1107+/-120.67 in the adult control and aged groups, respectively. The perikaryon areas of the NADH-diaphorase neurons reactives ranged from 216.40 to 1809.30 microm(2) in adult control group and from 198.20 to 2096.25 microm(2) in aged group. The nuclear area showed an increase in aged animals. The number of AChE-positive neurons estimated in the intramural plexus was 3294.67+/-415 microm(2) in the adult control group and 1960.33+/-526 microm(2) in the aged group, showing a significant decrease in the latter group. This age-related morphological change in intramural neurons may contribute to changes in urinary bladder activities in the elderly.
A novel TLR4-mediated signaling pathway leading to IL-6 responses in human bladder epithelial cells.	The vigorous cytokine response of immune cells to Gram-negative bacteria is primarily mediated by a recognition molecule, Toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4), which recognizes lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and initiates a series of intracellular NF-kappaB-associated signaling events. Recently, bladder epithelial cells (BECs) were reported to express TLR4 and to evoke a vigorous cytokine response upon exposure to LPS. We examined intracellular signaling events in human BECs leading to the production of IL-6, a major urinary cytokine, following activation by Escherichia coli and isolated LPS. We observed that in addition to the classical NF-kappaB-associated pathway, TLR4 triggers a distinct and more rapid signaling response involving, sequentially, Ca(2+), adenylyl cyclase 3-generated cAMP, and a transcriptional factor, cAMP response element-binding protein. This capacity of BECs to mobilize secondary messengers and evoke a more rapid IL-6 response might be critical in their role as first responders to microbial challenge in the urinary tract.
The use of tissue engineering and stem cells in bladder regeneration.	Tissue engineering techniques for bladder regeneration have been applied successfully for many years in a variety of in vitro and in vivo models. But despite these rapid advances, to date, none of the tissue-engineered constructs could be used in human models due to inconsistent results of the described techniques in animal models. Three factors have been identified to influence the regeneration process: identification of the ideal scaffold, appropriate cell population for seeding and the optimal regeneration conditions necessary. Identifying the role of each component will help to unlock the complex regeneration mechanisms required to achieve consistent, reliable results that will allow transition of the technology into clinical practice. This review will discuss the role and applicability of the each factor and provide a future prospective on tissue engineering techniques for bladder regeneration.
Urothelial progenitor cells: regional differences in the rat bladder.	Because the trigone is a unique region in the caudal bladder with a higher risk of neoplasia, we hypothesized that this area would have a high proportion of progenitor cells. As yet there is no marker nor methodology to specifically isolate urothelial stem cells, and thus demonstrate multi-potential differentiation and self-renewal. Here, our goal was to evaluate the distribution of progenitor cells that carry two general major attributes of stem cells: clonogenicity and proliferative capacity.
The urothelium cell culture on the starch scaffold.	The etiology of the interstitial cystitis (IC) is believed to be a dysfunction of the bladder glycosaminoglycan (GAG) protective layer of the urothelial cells. Management of interstitial cystitis (IC) is pure empirical. The aim of this study was to establish primary rabbit urothelial cells (PRUCC) affinity to complex sugar scaffold in vitro. The primary rabbit urothelial cells culture (PRUCC) was set up. The cells were cultured in Jouan IG 150 incubator in temperature of 370C and humidified atmosphere containing 5% of CO2. The multi-well culture plates were covered with potato starch. PRUCC was seeded on the starch scaffold. On the 7th day the starch was removed. Culture analysis and photo documentation was done under inverted microscope. There was no disruption of the monolayer under the starch and the cells morphology was comparable to the rabbit urothelial cells in culture. No inhibitory effect on the PRUCC was observed. The colonies of the urothelial cells were formed over the starch grains. The athor postulate that urothelial cells have affinity to the complex sugar compounds. There is strong evidence that sugar complex compounds could be used in the treatment of the IC.
Different types of cell-to-cell connections mediated by nanotubular structures.	Communication between cells is crucial for proper functioning of multicellular organisms. The recently discovered membranous tubes, named tunneling nanotubes, that directly bridge neighboring cells may offer a very specific and effective way of intercellular communication. Our experiments on RT4 and T24 urothelial cell lines show that nanotubes that bridge neighboring cells can be divided into two types. The nanotubes of type I are shorter and more dynamic than those of type II, and they contain actin filaments. They are formed when cells explore their surroundings to make contact with another cell. The nanotubes of type II are longer and more stable than type I, and they have cytokeratin filaments. They are formed when two already connected cells start to move apart. On the nanotubes of both types, small vesicles were found as an integral part of the nanotubes (that is, dilatations of the nanotubes). The dilatations of type II nanotubes do not move along the nanotubes, whereas the nanotubes of type I frequently have dilatations (gondolas) that move along the nanotubes in both directions. A possible model of formation and mechanical stability of nanotubes that bridge two neighboring cells is discussed.
Expression and localisation of aquaporin water channels in human urothelium in situ and in vitro.	Urothelium is generally considered to be impermeable to water and constituents of urine. The possibility that human urothelium expresses aquaporin (AQP) water channels as the basis for water and solute transport has not previously been investigated.
Rab11a-dependent exocytosis of discoidal/fusiform vesicles in bladder umbrella cells.	The discoidal/fusiform vesicles (DFV) of bladder umbrella cells undergo regulated exocytosis in response to stretch, but little is known about their biogenesis or the molecular machinery that modulates this process. We observed that Rab11a was expressed in umbrella cells (but not Rab11b or Rab25) and was associated with DFV. Using adenovirus-mediated delivery we transduced umbrella cells in situ with either dominant active (DA) or dominant negative (DN) mutants of Rab11a. DA-Rab11a stimulated an increase in apical surface area in the absence of stretch, whereas DN-Rab11a inhibited stretch-induced changes. Endocytosed fluid and membrane markers had little access to Rab11a-positive DFV, but virally expressed human growth hormone (hGH), a secretory protein, was packaged into DFV. Whereas expression of DA-Rab11a stimulated release of hGH into the bladder lumen, expression of DN-Rab11a had the opposite effect. Our results indicate that DFV may be biosynthetic in nature and that their exocytosis depends on the activity of the Rab11a GTPase.
Functional water channels and proton pumps are in separate populations of endocytic vesicles in toad bladder granular cells.	Functional water channels are retrieved by endocytosis from the apical membrane of toad bladder granular cells in response to vasopressin [Shi, L.-B., & Verkman, A.S. (1989) J. Gen. Physiol. 94, 1101-1115]. To examine whether endocytic vesicles which contain the vasopressin-sensitive water channel fuse with acidic vesicles for entry into a lysosomal pathway, ATP-dependent acidification and osmotic water permeability were measured in endosomes from control bladders and bladders treated with vasopressin (VP) and/or phorbol myristate acetate (PMA). Endosomes were labeled with the fluid-phase markers 6-carboxyfluorescein or fluorescein-dextran. Osmotic water permeability (Pf) was measured by stopped-flow fluorescence quenching and proton ATPase activity by ATP-dependent, N-ethylmaleimide-inhibitable acidification. In a microsomal pellet, Pf was low (less than 0.002 cm/s, 20 degrees C) in labeled endocytic vesicles from control bladders but high (0.05-0.1 cm/s) in a subpopulation (50-70%) of vesicles from VP- and PMA-treated bladders. Following ATP addition, the average drop in pH was 0.1 (control), 0.3 (VP), and 0.2 (PMA) unit. Measurement of pH in individual endocytic vesicles by quantitative image analysis showed that less than 20% of vesicles from VP-treated bladders acidified by greater than 0.5 pH unit. To examine whether water channels and proton pumps were present in the same endocytic vesicles, the pH of endosomes with high and low water permeability was measured from the effect of ATP on the amplitude of the fluorescence quenching signal in response to an osmotic gradient.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Turnover of asymmetric unit membranes in the transitional epithelial superficial cells of the rat urinary bladder.	Asymmetric thick unit membranes were observed on the luminal surface, fusiform vesicles, and multivesicular bodies of superficial cells of rat transitional epithelium. When HRP-labeled Ricinus communis lectin (RCA-I) was injected into the rat urinary bladder, RCA-I was deposited along the luminal cell membrane and in some multivesicular bodies, but not in the fusiform vesicles either before or after contraction. When the bladder was sliced by Vibratome and stained with HRP-labeled RCA-I after fixation, RCA-I was observed in many cell organelles, including fusiform vesicles and multivesicular bodies as well as the luminal surface. When small pieces of tissue were stained en-bloc with HRP-labeled RCA-I, RCA-I was found along the luminal cell surface but not in the fusiform vesicles nor the multivesicular bodies. When HRP alone was injected into the bladder, HRP was observed in some multivesicular bodies after contraction but not in the fusiform vesicles. Various lysosomes were observed by electron microscopy. Some were wrapping multivesicular bodies in ringlike fashion, and some contained asymmetric unit membranes. These findings suggest that the asymmetric unit membranes are carried to the luminal cell membrane via the fusiform vesicles and that old luminal cell membranes are removed via the multivesicular bodies to be degraded by lysosomes.
Functional characterization of transient receptor potential channels in mouse urothelial cells.	The bladder urothelium is currently believed to be a sensory structure, contributing to mechano- and chemosensation in the bladder. Transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channels act as polymodal sensors and may underlie some of the receptive properties of urothelial cells. However, the exact TRP channel expression profile of urothelial cells is unclear. In this study, we have performed a systematic analysis of the molecular and functional expression of various TRP channels in mouse urothelium. Urothelial cells from control and trpv4-/- mice were isolated, cultured (12-48 h), and used for quantitative real-time PCR, immunocytochemistry, calcium imaging, and whole cell patch-clamp experiments. At the mRNA level, TRPV4, TRPV2, and TRPM7 were the most abundantly expressed TRP genes. Immunohistochemistry showed a clear expression of TRPV4 in the plasma membrane, whereas TRPV2 was more prominent in the cytoplasm. TRPM7 was detected in the plasma membrane as well as cytoplasmic vesicles. Calcium imaging and patch-clamp experiments using TRP channel agonists and antagonists provided evidence for the functional expression of TRPV4, TRPV2, and TRPM7 but not of TRPA1, TRPV1, and TRPM8. In conclusion, we have demonstrated functional expression of TRPV4, TRPV2, and TRPM7 in mouse urothelial cells. These channels may contribute to the (mechano)sensory function of the urothelial layer and represent potential targets for the treatment of bladder dysfunction.
In vitro transformation of rat bladder epithelium by 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole.	To establish a rat urinary bladder carcinogenesis model in vitro, primary rat bladder epithelial cells were grown in media containing 2-amino-4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)thiazole (ANFT), the water-soluble metabolite of N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]-formamide (FANFT), for 4 weeks followed by long-term (4-7 months) exposure to control medium, sodium saccharin (NaS), or urea. Another set of cultures were exposed to ANFT, NaS and urea simultaneously. Several phenotypic changes were observed in the chemically exposed cell cultures, namely differences in cell morphology, increased growth rate and the ability to grow on plastic instead of rat-tail collagen support. All of the chemically exposed cultures were anchorage independent except one of those treated with NaS. The ANFT-treated cells followed by control medium or urea and cells treated with ANFT, NaS and urea were tumorigenic when transplanted to nude mice, whereas NaS or ANFT followed by NaS treatment were not. The tumors were carcinomas and their epithelial differentiation was verified by strong positive staining for cytokeratin. These studies demonstrate the urothelial transforming capability of ANFT in cell culture without the necessity for a long exposure to a secondary chemical.
Examining the role of mechanosensitive ion channels in pressure mechanotransduction in rat bladder urothelial cells.	Until recently, the bladder urothelium had been thought of only as a physical barrier between urine and underlying bladder tissue. Recent studies, however, have demonstrated that the urothelium is sensitive to mechanical stimuli and responds by releasing signaling molecules (NO, ATP). This study sought to investigate the role of select ion channels in urothelial cell (UC) pressure mechanotransduction. Using a custom-made pressure chamber, rat bladder UCs cultured on tissue culture plastic dishes were exposed to sustained hydrostatic pressure (5-20cmH(2)O) for up to 30min. When compared to the control, UCs exposed to 10cmH(2)O (5min), and 15cmH(2)O (5 and 15min), exhibited a significant (p<0.05) increase in ATP release. In the absence of extracellular calcium, ATP release due to hydrostatic pressure was attenuated. Blocking the L-type voltage-gated channel with nifedipine during pressure exposure did not affect ATP release. However, blocking TRP channels, stretch-activated channels (SACs), and the epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) with ruthenium red, gadolinium chloride, and amiloride, respectively, all abolished hydrostatic pressure-evoked ATP release. These results have provided evidence for the first time that cultured UCs are sensitive to hydrostatic pressure in the physiologically relevant range. The results of this study also provide evidence that one or multiple mechanosensitive ion channels play a role in the mechanotransduction of hydrostatic pressure, which supports the view that not only tissue stretch or tension, but also pressure is an important parameter for mechanosensing of bladder fullness.
Lkb1 and Pten synergise to suppress mTOR-mediated tumorigenesis and epithelial-mesenchymal transition in the mouse bladder.	The AKT/PI3K/mTOR pathway is frequently altered in a range of human tumours, including bladder cancer. Here we report the phenotype of mice characterised by deletion of two key players in mTOR regulation, Pten and Lkb1, in a range of tissues including the mouse urothelium. Despite widespread recombination within the range of epithelial tissues, the primary phenotype we observe is the rapid onset of bladder tumorigenesis, with median onset of approximately 100 days. Single deletion of either Pten or Lkb1 had no effect on bladder cell proliferation or tumour formation. However, simultaneous deletion of Lkb1 and Pten led to an upregulation of the mTOR pathway and the hypoxia marker GLUT1, increased bladder epithelial cell proliferation and ultimately tumorigenesis. Bladder tissue also exhibited characteristic features of epithelial-mesenchymal transition, with loss of the epithelial markers E-cadherin and the tight junction protein ZO-1, and increases in the mesenchymal marker vimentin as well as nuclear localization of epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) regulator Snail. We show that these effects were all dependent upon mTOR activity, as rapamycin treatment blocked both EMT and tumorigenesis. Our data therefore establish clear synergy between Lkb1 and Pten in controlling the mTOR pathway within bladder epithelium, and show that loss of this control leads to the disturbance of epithelial structure, EMT and ultimately tumorigenesis.
Interstitial cells of Cajal in the urinary tract.	The study of novel interstitial cells in the tissues of the urinary tract has defined advances in the field in the last decade. These intriguing cells belong to the same family as the better known interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) of the gastrointestinal tract, and their discovery has been interpreted to suggest that pacemaker cells may be present in the urinary tract, driving the spontaneous or myogenic activity of the neighboring smooth muscle. This scenario may be true for the urethra where ICC have been described as "loose pacemakers" providing multiple, random inputs to modulate urethral smooth muscle activity. However, there is a paucity of direct evidence available to support this hypothesis in the bladder (where the smooth muscle cells are spontaneously active) or the renal pelvis (where atypical smooth muscle cells are the pacemakers), and it now seems more likely that urinary tract ICC act as modulators of smooth muscle activity.Interestingly, the literature suggests that the role of urinary tract ICC may be more apparent in pathophysiological conditions such as the overactive bladder. Several reports have indicated that the numbers of ICC present in overactive bladder tissues are greater than those from normal tissues; moreover, the contractility of tissues from overactive bladders in vitro appears to be more sensitive to the Kit antagonist, glivec, than those from normal bladder. Future research on urinary tract ICC in the short to medium term is likely to be dynamic and exciting and will lead to increasing our understanding of the roles of these cells in both normal and dysfunctional bladder.
Myocardin is differentially required for the development of smooth muscle cells and cardiomyocytes.	Myocardin is a serum response factor (SRF) coactivator exclusively expressed in cardiomyocytes and smooth muscle cells (SMCs). However, there is highly controversial evidence as to whether myocardin is essential for normal differentiation of these cell types, and there are no data showing whether cardiac or SMC subtypes exhibit differential myocardin requirements during development. Results of the present studies showed the virtual absence of myocardin(-/-) visceral SMCs or ventricular myocytes in chimeric myocardin knockout (KO) mice generated by injection of myocardin(-/-) embryonic stem cells (ESCs) into wild-type (WT; i.e., myocardin(+/+) ESC) blastocysts. In contrast, myocardin(-/-) ESCs readily formed vascular SMC, albeit at a reduced frequency compared with WT ESCs. In addition, myocardin(-/-) ESCs competed equally with WT ESCs in forming atrial myocytes. The ultrastructural features of myocardin(-/-) vascular SMCs and cardiomyocytes were unchanged from their WT counterparts as determined using a unique X-ray microprobe transmission electron microscopic method developed by our laboratory. Myocardin(-/-) ESC-derived SMCs also showed normal contractile properties in an in vitro embryoid body SMC differentiation model, other than impaired thromboxane A2 responsiveness. Together, these results provide novel evidence that myocardin is essential for development of visceral SMCs and ventricular myocytes but is dispensable for development of atrial myocytes and vascular SMCs in the setting of chimeric KO mice. In addition, results suggest that as yet undefined defects in development and/or maturation of ventricular cardiomyocytes may have contributed to early embryonic lethality observed in conventional myocardin KO mice and that observed deficiencies in development of vascular SMC may have been secondary to these defects.
PARP inhibition prevents oxidative injury of bladder induced by acute urinary retention and subsequent emptying.	It has been demonstrated that increases in poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) activity causes damage to several organs under ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) conditions. The aims of this study were to investigate whether inhibition of PARP could suppress apoptosis in the bladder following acute urinary retention (AUR) and subsequent bladder emptying. Twelve-week-old male Sprague Dawley rats were divided into a control group, saline treated group, and 3-aminobenzamide (3-AB, a specific PARP inhibitor)-treated group. Sixty minutes after the administration of saline and 3-AB, the saline and 3-AB-treated groups had 60 min of over-distension and followed by 2 h of drainage. The degree of bladder apoptosis, levels of malondialdehyde (MDA), ATP and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD+); expression of poly(ADP-ribose) (PAR), phosphorylation of protein kinase B (Akt); and levels of Bcl-2, Bax, and caspase 3 activity in the bladder were determined. Molecular and histological analyses showed that bladder apoptosis was associated with increases in the amount of PAR and decreases in ATP and NAD+ levels in the saline treated group. In addition, phosphorylated Akt and Bcl-2/Bax ratio were significantly decreased. The activity of caspase 3 was significantly increased in the saline treated group. Inhibition of PARP significantly increased the levels of ATP and NAD+, phosphorylation of Akt, and Bcl-2/Bax ratio, and significantly reduced the activation of caspase 3. As a result, apoptosis in the bladder was attenuated. These results indicate that PARP activation may be involved in apoptosis in the bladder induced by AUR and subsequent emptying via energy depletion and suppression of Akt activity.
Smooth muscle phenotypic diversity is mediated through alterations in myocardin gene splicing.	Myocardin (MYOCD) is a smooth and cardiac muscle-specific transcriptional coactivator that is required for the proper expression of contraction-related genes. Through its function to transactivate effector genes, MYOCD plays an essential role in mediating the switch between contractile and non-contractile phenotypes, particularly in smooth muscle cells (SMC). There are at least two known transcript variants of MYOCD that are expressed in SMC, differing only by the presence (+) or absence () of Exon 11. To date, no functional role has been assigned to the domain encoded by Exon 11, nor have any notable differences between the ability of each isoform to activate contraction-related genes been observed. In this study we compared sequences for Exon 11 among several mammalian species and identified a highly conserved, putative target sequence for glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) phosphorylation, suggesting a regulatory role for Exon 11 that can be modulated by alternative splicing. The function of Exon 11 was investigated by altering MYOCD splice selection in cultured porcine SMC with small interfering RNAs (siRNA) and specific chemical inhibitors, resulting in a relative increase in expression of Exon 11 variants in the endogenous pool of MYOCD mRNA. The relative increase in Exon 11 mRNAs correlated with a reduction of contractile phenotype in the porcine SMC as evidenced by morphological assessment and molecular analysis of effector genes. Together, these data suggest that MYOCD Exon 11 may participate in modulating SMC phenotype, potentially acting as a dominant-negative repressor of contraction-related genes.
Localization and functions of c-kit positive cells in the urinary tract]	Interstitial cells of Cajal (ICCs) play an important role in the regulation of gut motility as they are responsible for the slow wave activity of smooth muscle. There is strong evidence that several subpopulations of ICC are present in the wall of the urinary tract. This review presents the currently available literature on the localization and proposed functions of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) in the urinary tract.
Surface mosaics of the bladder reconstructed from endoscopic video for automated surveillance.	Flexible cystoscopy is frequently performed for recurrent bladder cancer surveillance, making it the most expensive cancer to treat over the patient's lifetime. An automated bladder surveillance system is being developed to robotically scan the bladder surface using an ultrathin and highly flexible endoscope. Such a system would allow cystoscopic procedures to be overseen by technical staff while urologists could review cystoscopic video postoperatively. In this paper, we demonstrate a method for reconstructing the surface of the whole bladder from endoscopic video using structure from motion. Video is acquired from a custom ultrathin and highly flexible endoscope that can retroflex to image the entire internal surface of the bladder. Selected frames are subsequently stitched into a mosaic and mapped to a reconstructed surface, creating a 3-D surface model of the bladder that can be expediently reviewed. Our software was tested on endoscopic video of an excised pig bladder. The resulting reconstruction possessed a projection error of 1.66 pixels on average and covered 99.6% of the bladder surface area.
Candida tropicalis biofilms: effect on urinary epithelial cells.	Candida tropicalis infection is strongly associated with the presence of biofilms in urinary catheters. Thus, the aim of this work was to study the behaviour of C. tropicalis in biofilms of different ages (24-120 h) formed in artificial urine (AU) and their effect in human urinary bladder cells (TCC-SUP). Reference strain ATCC 750 and two isolates from patients with candiduria (U69 and U75) were used in this study. The adhesion to human cells was evaluated after 2 h of contact with Candida biofilms, using the Crystal violet staining method, and the human cells response was evaluated in terms of activity inhibition and cell damage. Candida tropicalis aspartyl proteinase (SAPT) gene expression was determined by real-time PCR. Candida tropicalis biofilm cells were able to adhere to TCC-SUP cells. The highest extent of yeast attachment was obtained for the 72 h old biofilm cells. Yeasts affected TCC-SUP cells, with 120 h-biofilm cells causing the highest levels of cell injury. Generally, SAPT3 was highly expressed and SAPT4 was only detected in the reference strain. Overall, it is important to highlight that C. tropicalis cells detached from biofilms are able to colonize human cells and cause some injury and reduction of metabolic activity.
Identification of T-type calcium channels in the interstitial cells of Cajal in rat bladder.	To investigate the expression and function of T-type calcium channels in the interstitial cells of Cajal in rat bladders.
Aneuploidy, oncogene amplification and epithelial to mesenchymal transition define spontaneous transformation of murine epithelial cells.	Human epithelial cancers are defined by a recurrent distribution of specific chromosomal aneuploidies, a trait less typical for murine cancer models induced by an oncogenic stimulus. After prolonged culture, mouse epithelial cells spontaneously immortalize, transform and become tumorigenic. We assessed genome and transcriptome alterations in cultures derived from bladder and kidney utilizing spectral karyotyping, array CGH, FISH and gene expression profiling. The results show widespread aneuploidy, yet a recurrent and tissue-specific distribution of genomic imbalances, just as in human cancers. Losses of chromosome 4 and gains of chromosome 15 are common and occur early during the transformation process. Global gene expression profiling revealed early and significant transcriptional deregulation. Chromosomal aneuploidy resulted in expression changes of resident genes and consequently in a massive deregulation of the cellular transcriptome. Pathway interrogation of expression changes during the sequential steps of transformation revealed enrichment of genes associated with DNA repair, centrosome regulation, stem cell characteristics and aneuploidy. Genes that modulate the epithelial to mesenchymal transition and genes that define the chromosomal instability phenotype played a dominant role and were changed in a directionality consistent with loss of cell adhesion, invasiveness and proliferation. Comparison with gene expression changes during human bladder and kidney tumorigenesis revealed remarkable overlap with changes observed in the spontaneously transformed murine cultures. Therefore, our novel mouse models faithfully recapitulate the sequence of genomic and transcriptomic events that define human tumorigenesis, hence validating them for both basic and preclinical research. 
Different muscarinic receptor subtypes modulate proliferation of primary human detrusor smooth muscle cells via Akt/PI3K and map kinases.	While acetylcholine (ACh) and muscarinic receptors in the bladder are mainly known for their role in the regulation of smooth muscle contractility, in other tissues they are involved in tissue remodelling and promote cell growth and proliferation. In the present study we have used primary cultures of human detrusor smooth muscle cells (HDSMCs), in order to investigate the role of muscarinic receptors in HDSMC proliferation. Samples were obtained as discarded tissue from men >65 years undergoing radical cystectomy for bladder cancer and cut in pieces that were either immediately frozen or placed in culture medium for the cell culture establishment. HDSMCs were isolated from samples, propagated and maintained in culture. [(3)H]-QNB radioligand binding on biopsies revealed the presence of muscarinic receptors, with a Kd of 0.100.02nM and a Bmax of 72.80.1fmol/mg protein. The relative expression of muscarinic receptor subtypes, based on Q-RT-PCR, was similar in biopsies and HDSMC with a rank order of M2M3>M1>M4>M5. The cholinergic agonist carbachol (CCh, 1-100M) concentration-dependently increased [(3)H]-thymidine incorporation (up to 464%). This was concentration-dependently inhibited by the general muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine and by subtype-preferring antagonists with an order of potency of darifenacin >4-DAMP>AF-DX 116. The CCh-induced cell proliferation was blocked by selective PI-3 kinase and ERK activation inhibitors, strongly suggesting that these intracellular pathways mediate, at least in part, the muscarinic receptor-mediated cell proliferation. This work shows that M2 and M3 receptors can mediate not only HDSM contraction but also proliferation; they may also contribute bladder remodelling including detrusor hypertrophy. 
Urinary bladder matrix promotes site appropriate tissue formation following right ventricle outflow tract repair.	The current prevalence and severity of heart defects requiring functional replacement of cardiac tissue pose a serious clinical challenge. Biologic scaffolds are an attractive tissue engineering approach to cardiac repair because they avoid sensitization associated with homograft materials and theoretically possess the potential for growth in similar patterns as surrounding native tissue. Both urinary bladder matrix (UBM) and cardiac ECM (C-ECM) have been previously investigated as scaffolds for cardiac repair with modest success, but have not been compared directly. In other tissue locations, bone marrow derived cells have been shown to play a role in the remodeling process, but this has not been investigated for UBM in the cardiac location, and has never been studied for C-ECM. The objectives of the present study were to compare the effectiveness of an organ-specific C-ECM patch with a commonly used ECM scaffold for myocardial tissue repair of the right ventricle outflow tract (RVOT), and to examine the role of bone marrow derived cells in the remodeling response. A chimeric rat model in which all bone marrow cells express green fluorescent protein (GFP) was generated and used to show the ability of ECM scaffolds derived from the heart and bladder to support cardiac function and cellular growth in the RVOT. The results from this study suggest that urinary bladder matrix may provide a more appropriate substrate for myocardial repair than cardiac derived matrices, as shown by differences in the remodeling responses following implantation, as well as the presence of site appropriate cells and the formation of immature, myocardial tissue. 
Correlation of cellular expression with function of NO-sensitive guanylyl cyclase in the murine lower urinary tract.	The action of nitric oxide (NO) to stimulate NO-sensitive guanylyl cyclase (NO-GC), followed by production of cGMP, and eventually to cause smooth muscle relaxation is well known. In the lower urinary tract (LUT), in contrast to the cardiovascular system and the gastrointestinal tract, specific localization in combination with function of NO-GC has not been investigated to date. Consequently, little is known about the mechanisms regulating relaxation of the lower urinary tract in general and the role of NO-GC-expressing cells in particular. To study the distribution and function of NO-GC in the murine lower urinary tract, we used internal urethral sphincter and bladder detrusor from global (GCKO) and smooth muscle cell-specific (SM-GCKO) NO-GC knock-out mice for immunohistochemical analyses and organ bath experiments. In urethral sphincter, NO-GC-positive immunofluorescence was confined to smooth muscle cells (SMCs). Deletion of NO-GC in SMCs abolished NO-induced relaxation. In bladder detrusor, exposure to NO did not cause relaxation although immunohistochemistry uncovered the existence of NO-GC in the tissue. In contrast to the urethral sphincter, expression of NO-GC in bladder detrusor was limited to platelet-derived growth factor receptor  (PDGFR)-positive interstitial cells. In conclusion, NO-GC found in SMCs of the urethral sphincter mediates NO-induced relaxation; bladder detrusor is unique as NO-GC is not expressed in SMCs and, thus, NO does not induce relaxation. Nevertheless, NO-GC expression was found in PDGFR-positive interstitial cells of the murine bladder with an as yet unknown function. Further investigation is needed to clarify the role of NO-GC in the detrusor.
Urethral reconstruction using bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell- and smooth muscle cell-seeded bladder acellular matrix.	Congenital or acquired abnormalities may lead to a urethral defect that often requires surgical reconstruction. The traditional methods often lead to complications, including urethrocutaneous fistulae and strictures. In this study, we proposed to construct a tissue-engineered sheet graft (TESG) using a bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell (BMSC)- and smooth muscle cell (SMC)-seeded bladder acellular matrix (BAM) for urethral reconstruction.
How to isolate urothelial cells? Comparison of four different methods and literature review.	The aim of this study is to present the comparison of four different methods for urothelial cell isolation and culture and compare them to methods cited in the literature. Four different techniques were examined for urothelium isolation from rat bladders. Isolation effectiveness was calculated using trypan blue assay. Confirmation of isolated cell phenotype and comparison with native bladder tissue was confirmed using immunohistochemical (IHC), immunocytochemical (ICC) and immunofluorescence (IF) analysis. The method with bladder inversion and collagenase P digestion resulted in the highest number of isolated cells. These cells showed positive expression of cytokeratin 7, 8, 18, 6-integrin and p63. Our results and the literature review showed that the best method for urothelium bladder isolation is dissection of the epithelium layer from other bladder parts and digestion of mechanically prepared tissue in a collagenase solution. 
Purinergic inhibitory regulation of murine detrusor muscles mediated by PDGFR+ interstitial cells.	Purines induce transient contraction and prolonged relaxation of detrusor muscles. Transient contraction could be due to activation of inward currents in smooth muscle cells, but the mechanism of purinergic relaxation has not been determined. We recently reported a new class of interstitial cells in detrusor muscles and showed that these cells could be identified with antibodies against platelet-derived growth factor receptor- (PDGFR(+) cells). The current density of small conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) (SK) channels in these cells is far higher (100 times) than in smooth muscle cells. Thus, we examined purinergic receptor (P2Y) mediated SK channel activation as a mechanism for purinergic relaxation. P2Y receptors (mainly P2ry1 gene) were highly expressed in PDGFR(+) cells. Under voltage clamp conditions, ATP activated large outward currents in PDGFR(+) cells that were inhibited by blockers of SK channels. ATP also induced significant hyperpolarization under current clamp conditions. A P2Y1 agonist, MRS2365, mimicked the effects of ATP, and a P2Y1 antagonist, MRS2500, inhibited ATP-activated SK currents. Responses to ATP were largely abolished in PDGFR(+) cells of P2ry1(-/-) mice, and no response was elicited by MRS2365 in these cells. A P2X receptor agonist had no effect on PDGFR(+) cells but, like ATP, activated transient inward currents in smooth muscle cells (SMCs). A P2Y1 antagonist decreased nerve-evoked relaxation. These data suggest that purines activate SK currents via mainly P2Y1 receptors in PDGFR(+) cells. Our findings provide an explanation for purinergic relaxation in detrusor muscles and show that there are no discrete inhibitory nerve fibres. A dual receptive field for purines provides the basis for inhibitory neural regulation of excitability. 
Comparison between tissue antigen analysis and plasma determinations for TPA and CEA in transitional cell carcinomas and in tumorfree urothelium of the urinary bladder.	Plasma determinations for TPA and CEA resulted in a sensitivity of 90% and 19-42%, respectively, for urothelial bladder cancer. By immunohistochemical staining TPA was positive in 100% and CEA in about 80% of the cases. The CEA staining in cancer tissue seemed to correlate with the WHO grade. Because TPA resulted in strong positive staining and high sensitivity in the plasma, contrary to CEA, showing less positive staining and a lower sensitivity, there seemed to be a good correlation between staining and plasma sensitivity for both markers.
Skp2-mediated degradation of p27 regulates cell cycle progression in compressed human bladder smooth muscle cells.	Bladder outlet obstruction (BOO) results in smooth muscle cell hyperplasia, decreased bladder wall compliance, and lower and upper urinary tract pathology. Mechanical stimulus on detrusor tissue is critical to BOO disease progression. Our previous studies confirm that mechanical stimulus triggers human bladder smooth muscle cell (HBSMC) proliferation. To better understand the signal transduction mechanisms for this process we detected cell cycle machinery of HBSMC (Bose  Biodynamic, Minnetonka, MN, USA). HBSMCs cultured in scaffolds were subjected to four different pressures (0cmH2O, 100cmH2O, 200cmH2O, and 300cmH2O) for 24hours, which were controlled by a BOSE BioDynamic bioreactor. Then we used flow cytometry to examine cell cycle distribution, polymerase chain reaction, and immunoblotting to quantify Skp2, p27, and p21 expression in each group. Additionally, Skp2 was silenced in HBSMCs using small interfering RNA to validate the role of Skp2 in mediating pressure-induced cell cycle progression. Compared with the 0cmH2O control, HBSMCs in the 200cmH2O and 300cmH2O groups exhibited high-level expression of Skp2 gene and low-level expression of p27 protein. However, p21, another downstream signal of Skp2, showed no significant change between groups. In addition, Skp2 silencing abolished increases in cell proliferation induced by pressure. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the functional importance of Skp2 in cyclic hydrodynamic pressure stimulated HBSMC proliferation. The signal transduction mechanism for this process involves p27 as well as p21 signaling pathway. 
Inhibition of bacterial adherence by nitroxoline on cellular adhesion and on urinary catheter surfaces]	Nitroxolin or 5-nitro-8-hydroxyquinoline, used in the treatment of acute or recurrent uncomplicated urinary tract infection (UTI), has been investigated to demonstrate inhibitory effect on bacterial adherence to epithelial cells or solid surfaces. Nitroxolin in vitro and in urine inhibits bacterial adherence of E. coli 38 (MS/MS) on HeLa cells and epithelial cells from human bladder mucosa. In the same conditions, norfloxacin has no effect. Nitroxolin (MIC/8) decreases with a statistically significant difference (p less than 0.001) the bacterial attachment to a urinary catheter surface made in siliconated latex. These results justify the performance of a clinical trial in the prophylaxis of recurrent UTI and the outcome of a bacteriuria associated with indwelling or intermittent bladder catheter.
Immunochemical analysis of the human chorionic gonadotrophin-like material secreted by 'normal' and neoplastic urothelial cells.	Material with the immunochemical characteristics of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) is produced by bladder tumour cells in vitro and in vivo. In order to characterize this material further, media were collected from 17 cell cultures (three choriocarcinomas, seven bladder carcinomas and seven 'normal' urothelium). The hCG-like material was compared with pregnancy hCG and purified alpha-and beta-subunits by specific radioimmunoassays. Media were also submitted to affinity chromatography and the fractions further analysed by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting. It was shown that both the neoplastic and normal urothelium produced only free beta-subunit-like material. This urothelial 'beta-hCG' has the same molecular weight and electrophoretic mobility as that present in the intact hCG of pregnancy.
Distribution and density of neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive nerve fibres and cells in the horse urinary bladder.	The distribution and density of neuropeptide Y (NPY)-immunoreactive nerve fibres and cells were determined in the urinary bladder of the horse by using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) immunohistochemical method. Numerous undulating NPY-immunoreactive nerve fibres were found throughout the vesical wall, sometimes forming nerve bundles which ramified repeatedly as they coursed through the connective tissue septa to give rise to smaller bundles or single fibres which projected into the muscle fascicles forming muscular nerve plexuses, mainly in the bladder base. In the submucosa of this region, NPY-immunoreactive fibres formed a rather dense subepithelial plexus. Numerous NPY-immunoreactive nerve fibres supplied blood vessels and were widely distributed on the vascular adventitia constituting rich perivascular nerve plexuses. In addition, intramural ganglia containing NPY-immunoreactive nerve cell bodies and fibres were identified at the uretero-vesical junction. These results suggest that the equine urinary bladder possesses a rich NPY-peptidergic innervation which shows regional variations in the density of the muscular and subepithelial plexuses, the bladder base being the most richly innervated region. At least some of these NPY-immunoreactive nerve fibres have an intrinsic origin in ganglion cells within the vesical wall.
Intravesical chemotherapy: in vitro studies on the relationship between dose and cytotoxicity.	The relative importance of two variables, drug concentration and period of exposure, in relation to the therapeutic potential of intravesical chemotherapy was examined in an experimental system. A human bladder cancer cell line was exposed to a range of concentrations of the four drugs commonly used to treat superficial bladder cancer (adriamycin, epodyl, mitomycin-c, thiotepa) for periods of 30, 60 and 120 min. An exponential relationship was observed between clonogenic cell kill and both drug concentration and period of exposure. Thus, under the experimental conditions employed, cytotoxicity is proportional to dose (i.e. concentration X period of exposure). These two variables are of equal importance in relation to tumor cell kill, indicating that maximum therapeutic benefit may be obtained by using the highest concentration achievable for as long as the patient can retain the instillate, bearing in mind the potential increase in toxicity to the patient and the cost.
Morphometric analysis of epithelial cells of frog urinary bladder, II. Effect of ADH, calcium ionophore (A23187) and verapamil on isolated dissociated cells.	Isolated frog urinary bladder epithelial cells, upon dissociation lose their polarity and develop microridges and occasional microvilli in a global fashion. These cells, when exposed only to isotonic Ringer's solution manifest a membrane conformation with smooth discontinuous microridges, a cytoplasm with numerous free ribosomes, rough ER, thin Golgi cisternae, mitochondria, small vacuoles, electron-dense granules, few microtubules, and numerous microfilaments and intermediate filaments with an apparent random distribution, the dissociated cells, when treated with ADH or calcium ionophore (A23187), have the appearance of numerous elongated microvilli over the entire cell surface. The cytoplasm, under these conditions, is occupied by large vacuoles with a distribution of long profiles of aggrephores and associated vesicles. The peripheral cytoplasm as well as the cavities of the elongated microvilli of these cells contain large concentrations of microfilaments often showing a strong axial orientation to the long axis of the microvilli. Many of these filamentous elements appear in contact with the apical membrane of these microvilli with an alignment with the external glycocalyx. There is an indication that these morphocytological changes as revealed by SEM and TEM studies, correlated with a redistribution and realignment of microfilaments and possibly microtubules as detected by fluorescent microscopy using immunofluorescent antibody labeling for actin and tubulin. Cells treated with verapamil, a calcium antagonist, presented dwarf and stout microvilli with little detectable alterations in the cytoplasmic compositions from that of non-hormonal treated cells. Verapamil prevented ADH induction of microvilli, with the membrane, under these conditions, appearing as compact microridges. The results indicate that calcium ionophore, like ADH, produces intense formation of microvilli in dissociated cells, mobilization and realignment of microfilaments, microtubules, increase in the density of vesicles, aggrephores and possibly secretory granules, whereas the calcium antagonist, verapamil, opposes these actions. The results suggests a prominent role of calcium in the morphological changes induced by ADH.
Studies on the rate of dehydration of histological specimens.	Pieces of liver, kidney and urinary bladder were fixed in 10% formalin. In order to study the velocity of the dehydration process tissue specimens of standardized size were rinsed and equilibrated with water containing 3H2O. The specimens were then put into vials with 100% ethanol or acetone; the vials were either shaken continuously or left stationary. The concentration of 3H in the dehydration medium was determined at frequent intervals. If the vials were shaken, steady concentrations of 3H were reached within about 50 min when ethanol was used, and about 30 min with acetone, indicating that dehydration was complete. With the vials left standing still the corresponding times exceeded 12 h. In other experiments dehydration was carried out with intermittent shaking in rising concentrations of ethanol or acetone; in these cases about 4 h were required.
Band 3 is the basolateral anion exchanger of dark epithelial cells of turtle urinary bladder.	The turtle urinary bladder serves as a model for collecting duct functions in the mammalian kidney. The epithelium of both the turtle bladder and the mammalian collecting duct can generate a steep gradient for H+ ions between blood and urine. Secretion of H+ into the urine is coupled to a basolateral efflux of HCO-3 that appears to be exchanged mainly against Cl-. Here we show that approximately 80% of the dark cells of the bladder contain a 110,000 relative molecular weight (Mr) analogue of the turtle erythrocyte anion exchanger, band 3. The band 3 analogue is confined to the basolateral cell surface and is absent from the apical membrane. A minor population of the dark cells (approximately 20%), which have been previously suggested to represent reverse cells that are involved in HCO-3 secretion rather than absorption, appears not to express a band 3-like anion exchanger, at either the apical or the basolateral membrane. The bladder band 3 protein is colocalized with actin and isoforms of ankyrin (200,000 Mr) and spectrin (230,000 Mr) along the basolateral membrane. Linkage of band 3 via ankyrin to the spectrin-actin lattice may restrict this anion exchanger to the basolateral membrane surface. In view of our previous observation of a band 3-like anion exchanger in the collecting duct epithelium of the rat kidney, these findings point to a common molecular basis for acid-base transport in the mammalian collecting duct and the reptilian urinary bladder.
Immunocytochemical localization of estrogen receptors in the normal male and female canine urinary tract and prostate.	We have used the monoclonal estrogen receptor (ER) antibody H222Sp gamma to localize ER by immunocytochemistry in frozen sections of the normal canine urinary tract of both sexes and of the normal prostate of the male. Striking regional heterogeneity of ER location was observed. In the urinary tract, specific ER staining was confined to nuclei of the transitional epithelium (mucosa) and subjacent stroma (submucosa) of the prostatic urethra in the male dog and of the proximal urethra in the female dog. In both sexes there was a gradient of ER staining intensity along these urethral segments. In the male, ER staining intensity was highest in the region of the verumontanum. The pattern and intensity of staining were similar in the male prostatic urethra and female proximal urethra, indicating a similar concentration of ER in these tissues, which have the same embryological origin. No specific staining was found in the kidney, ureter, bladder, or distal urethra of either sex. In the normal prostate, specific immunocytochemical ER staining was confined to nuclei of the prostatic stroma and prostatic ductal epithelium. Specific staining intensity appeared to be higher in the periurethral region of the prostate than in the periphery. No specific staining was found in the acinar epithelium of the prostate. Based on overall staining intensity there appeared to be a higher concentration of ER in the urethra than in the prostate. Scatchard analysis of [3H]estradiol binding confirmed a similar ER content in the urethra of male and female dogs and a higher ER content in the prostatic urethra than in the prostate itself (P less than 0.001). The location of ER in the normal canine prostate and prostatic urethra is consistent with the location of histological changes induced by estrogen administration, indicating that these immunoreactive ER probably represent biologically functional receptors.
Electron microprobe analysis of the different epithelial cells of toad urinary bladder. Electrolyte concentrations at different functional states of transepithelial sodium transport.	The electrolyte composition of toad urinary bladder epithelial cells has been measured using the technique of electron microprobe analysis. Portions of hemibladders, which had been mounted in chambers and bathed with a variety of media, were layered with albumin solution on their mucosal surfaces and immediately shock-frozen in liquid propane at -180 degrees C. From the frozen material 1--2 micrometer thick cryosections were cut and promptly freeze-dried for 12 hr at-80 degrees C and 10(-6) Torr. Electron microprobe analysis using a scanning electron microscope, an energy dispersive X-ray detector, and a computer programme, to distinguish between characteristic and uncharacteristic radiations, allowed quantification of cellular ionic concentrations per kg tissue wet wt by comparison of the intensities of the emitted radiations from the cells and from the albumin layer. Granular, mitochondrial-rich, and basal cells, and the basal portions of goblet cells, showed a similar composition, being high in K (about 110 mM/kg wet wt) and low in Na (about 13 mM/kg wet wt). The apical portions of goblet cells were higher in Ca and S and lower in P and K, presumably reflecting the composition of the mucus within them. With Na-Ringer's as the mucosal medium, cells gained Na and lost K, when their serosal surfaces were exposed to ouabain, 10(-2) M. Replacement of mucosal Na by choline virtually prevented these ouabain-induced changes. Cellular ion contents were unchanged when Na in the serosal medium was replaced by choline. No differences in Na and K concentrations were detected between nuclei and cytoplasm. These results provide independent support for the hypothesis the the cellular Na transport pool in toad bladder epithelial cells derives exclusively from the mucosal medium and that no important recycling of Na occurs from the serosal medium to the cells.
Angiogenesis-inducing ability of human bladder epithelium cell lines and "spontaneously" transformed murine fibroblasts.	Ten human bladder epithelium cell lines were tested for their ability to induce blood vessel formation after intradermal injection into irradiated ST/a mice. Cell lines that were shown to be tumorigenic in nude mice, were able to evoke angiogenesis of a higher intensity than nontumorigenic cell lines. No difference was observed between the angiogeneic ability of tumorigenic cells originating from tumors and from in vitro transformed urothelium of nontumor origin. Similarly the origin of nontumorigenic urothelial cell lines did not show any influence on their angiogeneic abilities, but nontumorigenic cell lines which had undergone "infinite growth transformation" exhibited a higher angiogeneic activity than nontumorigenic cell lines with a finite life. The angiogeneic reaction evoked by human bladder epithelium cell lines showed cell dose- and time-dependence; but it was unrelated to the growth potential of the cultured cells. Two "spontaneously" altered sarcoma-producing murine cell lines showed a higher angiogeneic activity than tumorigenic human bladder epithelial cells. The angiogeneic response to these two murine cell lines was unrelated to morphological signs of transformation and to differences in growth rate, serum requirement, saturation density, anchorage dependence, and isoimmunizing properties.
Isolation of epithelial cells from toad bladder.	The epithelial cells of the toad bladder have been isolated by brief exposure to ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid followed by treatment with collagenase, DNAse, and the application of shearing forces. This approach eliminates the need for scraping of the mucosal surface and reduces mechanical damage during harvesting of the epithelium. The method yields intact, isolated epithelial cells and few clumps. The three major types of epithelial cells described in the intact toad bladder were present in the final preparation. The cellular contents of nucleic acids and proteins (in pg/cell) were: DNA 22.5 +/- 1.1; RNA, 12.9 +/- 0.6; and protein, 192 +/- 9. The isolated cells possess rates of oxygen consumption and amino acid incorporation higher than those of epithelial sheets obtained by collagenase treatment and scraping of the intact bladder. However, the production of cyclic nucleotides in response to stimulation by vasopressin and carbachol is comparable in both preparations.
Specialized function of carbonic anhydrase-rich and granular cells of turtle bladder.	The mucosal surface of the turtle bladder consists of two major cell types, carbonic anhydrase-rich (CA) and granular (G) cells. These cells types may have specific transport functions. To separate and study these cells, they were removed from the bladder by collagenase digestion and then separated into two distant subpopulations by Ficoll discontinuous density-gradient centrifugation. By morphological criteria the lighter subpopulation (band II) consists primarily of CA cells and the denser population (band III) G cells. The distribution of two enzymes important for H+ transport, CA and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PD), and the effect of specific transport inhibitors, acetazolamide and ouabain, on O2 consumption of these cells was examined. The CA activity of band II cells was 4.5 times greater than that of band III cells. The G-6-PD activity of band II cells was 2.2 times greater than that of band III cells. The rate of O2 consumption of band II cells, 4.73 microliters.mg protein-1.h-1, was reduced 40% by 5 X 10(-5) M acetazolamide but not by ouabain. Band III O2 consumption, 3.43 microliters.mg protein-1.h-1, was reduced 30% by 10(-4) M ouabain but not by acetazolamide. On the basis of the distribution of CA and G-6-PD and the effect of acetazolamide and ouabain on O2 consumption, we propose that CA cells are primarily responsible for H+ transport and G cells for Na+ transport.
Paraganglia of the bladder.	Normal paraganglia containing high amounts of catecholamines are a constant feature of the wall of the bladder in elderly men. The paraganglia in this location might give rise to pheochromocytomas. The importance of the local endocrine effects in the regulation of the muscular tone in the bladder is discussed.
Increased agglutinability of bladder cells by concanavalin A after administration of carcinogens.	The agglutination by concanavalin A of isolated epithelial cells of the rat bladder was examined after in vivo treatment of rats with various bladder carcinogens for one week. The carcinogens tested were N-butyl-N-(4-hydroxybutyl)nitrosamine, dibutylnitrosamine, N-[4-(5-nitro-2-furyl)-2-thiazolyl]formamide, 2-acetylaminofluorene, 2-napthylamine, benzidine, N-methyl-N-nitrosourea, and cyclophosphamide, and they were given to male Wistar rats p.o., s.c., intravesically, or i.p. As negative controls, the effects of administration of 2-(2-furyl)-3-(5-nitro-2-furyl)acrylamide, dimethylnitrosamine, N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, and surgical implantation of glass beads in the bladder were also tested. One week after the start of treatment, epithelial cells were isolated from the bladder by sonication, and agglutination of the isolated cells with concanavalin A was assayed. The observed agglutinabilities of isolated cells were found to be closely correlated with the reported bladder carcinogenicities of these chemicals in rats. Thus, concanavalin A agglutination of bladder cells should be a useful rapid in vivo mammalian system for screening bladder carcinogens.
Proliferation kinetics of the mouse bladder after irradiation.	The proliferation response of the mouse bladder was investigated, using continuous labelling with tritiated thymidine, at various times after a single dose of radiation. Bladder epithelial and vascular endothelial cells were studied. The cell turnover rate in unirradiated epithelium and endothelium was found to be extremely slow (in excess of 1 year). Irradiation with a single dose of 25 Gy resulted in compensatory proliferation of the epithelium but the response was not initiated for many months. At 3 months after irradiation there was little difference from the control proliferation rate, but from 6 to 22 months after irradiation (the end of the study) there was a period of sustained rapid proliferation with the cell turnover time reduced to approximately 1 week. The increase in proliferative activity observed at 22 months was found to be dose-dependent. Endothelial cells in the blood vessels of the submucosa also showed an increased turnover rate after irradiation and the timing this response was found to be similar to that of the epithelium. The onset of compensatory proliferation in both cell types was found to coincide with marked histological and functional changes in the bladder. In this slowly proliferating tissue, the onset of rapid compensatory proliferation after irradiation is delayed and occurs at the time that functional impairment is observed. This supports the postulate that proliferation is unlikely to contribute much to the sparing effect of prolonged fractionated radiotherapy in slowly dividing tissues.
Lymphocyte interactions with the extracellular matrix of malignant cells in vitro: a morphological and immunocytochemical study.	The interactions of lymphocytes with the glycosaminoglycans-protease-membrane extracellular matrix, produced by mixed cell cultures of normal with malignant cell clones, were examined. Pre-activated and activated heterologous peripheral lymphocytes were used. Co-cultures of activated lymphocytes with all cell types used, formed identical cell nodules. Histology of cell nodules showed that activated lymphocytes were cytolytic to pure normal or malignant cell clones. On the contrary, lymphocytes in nodules with mixed cell clones (normal with malignant cell clones) or embryonic cells, underwent degeneration changing the fusiform type tumor nodule into the adenoid type. The adenoid type cell nodule consisted of cells with high nuclear to cytoplasm ratio and mitotic activity. In addition, leukocyte common antigen was deposited in the extracellular matrix and on the cell membrane of target tumor cells. Pre-activated lymphocytes, in mixed cell cultures, failed to lyse the target tumor cells and underwent abnormal cell divisions, producing subsets similar to nuclear vlimata, which remained attached to the extracellular matrix. The morphological and immunocytochemical observations of lymphocytes were discussed and attributed to the presence of the specific extracellular matrix of glycosaminoglycans-protease-membranes.
Muscarinic suppression of Ca2+ current in smooth muscle cells of the guinea-pig urinary bladder.	The suppressive action of carbachol (CCh) on the Ca2+ current (ICa) in smooth muscle cells of the guinea-pig urinary bladder was investigated using the whole-cell patch clamp technique. Bath application of 10 microM CCh reduced the amplitude of ICa by 92 +/- 3.8% (n = 9). Adding 1 microM atropine to the bath completely blocked the action of CCh, indicating that the suppressive action of CCh on ICa is mediated by the activation of muscarinic receptors. Intracellular perfusion of the non-hydrolysable GTP analogue, guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP gamma S; 200 microM) mimicked the effects of CCh. Sustained suppression of ICa was observed when GTP gamma S was present in the cytoplasm. Intracellular perfusion of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP 3; 20 microM) also suppressed ICa; its effect was not sustained but transient. The protein kinase C activator, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu), however, could not mimic the effects of CCh on ICa. When intracellular Ca2+ was strongly buffered by the Ca2+ chelator EGTA (20 mM) in the patch pipette, the sustained suppression of ICa was abolished. Inclusion of 3 mg/ml heparin, a blocker of InsP3-induced Ca2+ release, in the patch pipette reduced the degree of sustained ICa suppression by 43.2 +/- 1.9% (n = 7). Adding thapsigargin (TG), a sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor, to a wash solution reduced the recovery of ICa by about 50%, suggesting that approximately half of the ICa suppression induced by CCh is due to Ca2+ release from TG-sensitive internal Ca2+ stores. From these results it appears that CCh suppresses ICa via two independent mechanisms: (1) Ca(2+)-mediated inactivation of the Ca2+ channel, which is caused by Ca2+ release from InsP3- and TG-sensitive internal stores, and (2) a GTP-binding protein-mediated mechanism, which requires intracellular Ca2+.
Effect of mesenchymal glandular inductors on the growth and cytodifferentiation of neonatal mouse seminal vesicle epithelium.	To investigate the developmental properties of glandular mesenchymal inductors along the cranial-caudal extent of the developing male urogenital tract, neonatal mouse seminal vesicle epithelium (SVE) was combined with mesenchyme of the seminal vesicle (SVM), urogenital sinus (UGM), bulbourethral gland (BUG-M), or bladder (BLM) and grafted under the renal capsule of adult syngeneic or athymic male mice. Both SVM + SVE and UGM + SVE tissue recombinants expressed SV histogenesis and SV secretory proteins. BUG-M + SVE recombinants exhibited extensive growth as evidenced by a 36-fold increase in wet weight and a 27-fold increase in DNA content; however, the glandular structures that were induced in the SVE lacked the convoluted mucosa typical of SV. Furthermore, neither SV nor prostatic secretory proteins were detected in these recombinants. SVE grown in association with BLM failed to develop altogether. Thus, the ability to promote SV histogenesis and function is distinctly different in mesenchyme of cranial (SVM and UGM) versus caudal (BUG-M) regions. This implies the existence of a glandular inductive field in the developing male urogenital tract within which inductive activity varies regionally.
Mammalian uroplakins. A group of highly conserved urothelial differentiation-related membrane proteins.	The asymmetric unit membrane (AUM) forms the apical plaques of mammalian urothelium and is believed to play a role in strengthening the urothelial apical surface thus preventing the cells from rupturing during bladder distention. We have shown previously that purified bovine AUMs contain four major integral membrane proteins: the uroplakins Ia (27 kDa), Ib (28 kDa), II (15 kDa), and III (47 kDa). This contradicts some previous reports indicating that some of these proteins are absent in AUMs of several species. Using an improved procedure, we isolated AUMs from, in addition to cattle, eight mammalian species (human, monkey, sheep, pig, dog, rabbit, rat, and mouse). The AUMs of these species appear morphologically similar bearing crystalline patches of 12-nm protein particles with a center-to-center spacing of 16.5 nm. Using antibodies raised against synthetic oligopeptides or individual bovine uroplakins, we established by immunoblotting that the four uroplakins are present in AUMs of all these species. The DNA-deduced amino acid sequences of bovine and mouse uroplakin II revealed 83% identity. These results indicate that uroplakins Ia, Ib, II, and III are the major protein components of probably all mammalian urothelial plaques, and that the sequence and three-dimensional structure of uroplakin molecules are highly conserved during mammalian evolution.
Effects of ADH on the apical and basolateral membranes of toad urinary bladder epithelial cells.	Short-circuited urinary bladders from Bufo marinus were supported on their apical surface by an agar mounting method and impaled with microelectrodes via their basolateral membrane. This arrangement provided stable and long-lasting impalements of epithelial cells and yielded reliable membrane potentials and voltage divider ratios (Ra/Rb), where Ra and Rb are apical and basolateral membrane resistances respectively. The membrane potential under short-circuit conditions (Vsc) was -51.4 +/- 2.2 mV (n = 59), while under open-circuit conditions apical membrane potential (Va) and basolateral membrane potential (Vb) were -31.0 +/- 2.4 and 59.5 +/- 2.4 mV, respectively. This yields a "well-shaped" potential profile across the toad urinary bladder, where Va is inversely related to the rate of transport, Isc. Antidiuretic hormone (ADH) produced a hyperpolarisation of Vsc and Vb but had no significant effect on Va. In addition, Ra/Rb was significantly increased by ADH (4.6 +/- 0.5 to 10.2 +/- 3.6). Calculation of individual membrane resistances following the addition of amiloride showed that ADH produced a parallel decrease in Ra and Rb membrane resistance, with the observed increase in Ra/Rb being due to a greater percentage decrease in Rb than in Ra. The ability of ADH to effect parallel changes in apical and basolateral membrane conductance helps to maintain a constant cellular volume despite an increase in transepithelial transport.
Variation in the expression of p53, c-myc, and bcl-2 oncoproteins in individual patient cultures of normal urothelium exposed to cobalt 60 gamma-rays and N-nitrosodiethanolamine.	The controls determining the initial response of cells to DNA damage probably determine whether a cancer will ultimately occur. Efficient repair or apoptosis represents extremes of control mechanisms. Misrepair can lead to fixation of damage. The changes in oncoprotein expression of three genes involved in the regulation of repair of DNA damage and postdamage proliferation of cells were measured in cultures of normal urothelium from 55 patients without any malignancy. The aim was to obtain information on interperson variation in response to carcinogens in the human population. The group included 10 pediatric patients < 2 years old. Two different carcinogenic agents, ionizing radiation and N-nitrosodiethanolamine, which represent widely different DNA-damaging pathways, were used. Both of these cause bladder cancer in humans. Cells from explanted tissue were examined after carcinogen exposure for levels of p53, c-myc, and bcl-2 proteins. Both carcinogens led to increased levels of cytoplasmic p53 protein expression, although there was significant interpatient variation. bcl-2 showed a very significant increase in expression after radiation exposure. c-myc was high and variable pre- and postexposure. Individual patient culture changes in the expression of the three oncoproteins did not correlate significantly with each other or with cell growth, suggesting that the controls are complex. Pediatric samples had lower mean control values of p53 and bcl-2 than did adult samples. This was due to the absence in this group of high controls seen in some adult cultures. The result suggest that an early breakdown in control mechanisms of growth arrest and apoptosis may occur in urothelium after carcinogen exposure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Voltage-dependent suppression of calcium current by caffeine in single smooth muscle cells of the guinea-pig urinary bladder.	The suppressive action of caffeine on L-type Ca current (Ica) in smooth muscle cells of the guinea-pig urinary bladder was investigated using the whole-cell patch clamp technique. Caffeine (5-30 mM) suppressed Ica, the effect having two phases: a rapid and transient suppression of Ica, which was followed by a sustained suppression. When intracellular Ca2+ was strongly buffered by the Ca2+ chelator EGTA (20 mM) or BAPTA (5 mM) in the patch pipette, the transient suppression of Ica was abolished, whereas the sustained effect remained. Similarly, inclusion of both 10 mM procaine and 1 mg/ml heparin in the patch pipette blocked the transient suppression of Ica, but did not block the sustained effect. The degree of the sustained effect of caffeine on Ica was dose-dependent with a kd of 20 mM. Application of the cyclic AMP analogue, 8-bromo-cyclic AMP (100 microM) or forskolin (10 microM) to the bath failed to mimick the sustained suppression of Ica, suggesting that inhibition of phosphodiesterase activity was not involved in the caffeine action. The steady-state activation curve remained unchanged by 10 mM caffeine but the steady-state inactivation curve was significantly shifted in the negative direction by 15.6 mV in 1.8 mM Ca2+ solution or by 10 mV in 1.8 mM Ba2+ solution. From these results it appears that caffeine inhibits L-type Ica via two mechanisms: (1) it releases Ca2+ from an internal store causing a transient Ca2+ -mediated inactivation of the Ca channel; (2) it inhibits Ca channel via a mechanism that does not require such a Ca2+ release. It is possible that caffeine suppresses Ica through a preferential binding to the inactivated state of L-type Ca channel.
