Significance of bladder biopsies in Ta,T1 bladder tumors: a report from the EORTC Genito-Urinary Tract Cancer Cooperative Group. EORTC-GU Group Superficial Bladder Committee.	We investigated to what extent biopsies of normal-appearing urothelium taken from patients with Ta,T1 bladder cancer showed malignant disease: carcinoma in situ, or papillary tumor. We also investigated biopsies underlying the papillary tumor, adjacent to the tumor, and from suspicious-appearing mucosa.
Risk of bladder cancer by geographic region in a U.S. cohort of male health professionals.	Large regional variations in bladder cancer rates have been observed for numerous decades in the United States and persist to date. We examined the incidence rates of bladder cancer by geographic region among U.S. male health professionals to determine whether diet or other lifestyle factors can account for variations observed. During 12 years of follow-up, 328 cases of bladder cancer were diagnosed in the Health Professionals Follow-up Study cohort. We inquired about diet, lifetime history of smoking, race, marital status, and other nondietary factors using mailed questionnaires. An elevated risk of bladder cancer was observed in the Northeast compared with the West [relative risk (RR) = 1.71, 95% confidence interval (CI) = 1.23-2.39], which was slightly attenuated after controlling for smoking (RR = 1.65, 95% CI = 1.18-2.30). Smoking patterns, diet, and other lifestyle factors could not account for all of the elevated bladder cancer risk in the Northeast. Bladder cancer risk was highest among men who had a long residency in the Northeast compared with a long residency in the West (RR = 1.77, 95% CI = 1.15-2.71, adjusted for smoking). Diet and other known characteristics do not appear to be responsible for the regional variations in bladder cancer rates in the United States.
The endoscopic approach to the distal ureter in nephroureterectomy for upper urinary tract tumor.	We reviewed the current status of the endoscopic distal ureteral approach to nephroureterectomy for transitional upper urinary tract cancer.
Familial bladder cancer in the National Swedish Family Cancer Database.	We analyzed the risk of bladder cancer in offspring according to parental and sibling cancer using the national Swedish Family Cancer Database.
Foods and risk of bladder cancer: a case-control study in Uruguay.	A case-control study on 144 cases of transitional cell bladder carcinoma and 576 hospitalized controls was conducted in Montevideo, Uruguay. Barbecued meat, salted meat and fried eggs were associated with significant increased risks of bladder cancer (odds ratio (OR) for high intake of salted meat 4.04, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.24-7.27). On the other hand, all fruits, cooked vegetables, potatoes and cheese were associated with inverse associations (OR for high consumption of potatoes 0.38, 95% CI 0.23-0.64). The associations with salted and barbecued meat suggest that the way of preserving or cooking meat play a role in bladder carcinogenesis. More precisely, N-nitroso compounds and heterocyclic amines could be involved in this process.
Nonsmoking-related arylamine exposure and bladder cancer risk.	Roughly one-half of bladder cancer incidence in the United States can be attributed to known causes, mainly cigarette smoking, and it has been hypothesized that the aromatic amines in tobacco smoke are important etiological agents. Nonsmokers are also exposed, through unknown sources, to many of the same carcinogenic aromatic amines that are present in cigarette smoke. Previous epidemiological studies have not tested whether either of these aromatic amine exposures are associated with cancer risk. We conducted a population-based case-control study in Los Angeles County, California, involving 761 case patients with bladder cancer and 770 individually matched control subjects. In-person interviews provided information on tobacco smoking and other potential risk factors. Quantitative analysis of hemoglobin adducts of 4- and 3-aminobiphenyl (ABP) was used to assess aromatic amine exposure. Adducts of both aminobiphenyls were significantly higher in cases than in controls, independent of cigarette smoking at the time of blood collection and lifetime smoking history. Adjustment for other risk factors as well as for metabolic differences did not materially alter the associations. Our findings strengthen the connection between exposure to aromatic amines in tobacco smoke and cigarette smoking-related bladder cancer and suggest that environmental exposure to arylamines may account for a significant proportion of nonsmoking-related bladder cancer in the general population.
Evaluation of cases where the right kidney is higher than the left kidney.	Finding the right kidney higher than the left kidney on excretory urography (EXU) is unusual. In the present study, the position of the kidneys was evaluated in patients, and the frequency, causes or attribution were investigated.
Aromatic amines and human urinary bladder cancer: exposure sources and epidemiology.	Human exposure to aromatic amines has long been associated with an elevated risk of urinary bladder cancer. Nonetheless, use of these materials has continued due to their industrial and commercial value. Commercial value, chemical reactivity and biological effect are closely linked, making it difficult to select materials that are commercially useful and safe. The chemical structure of carcinogenic aromatic amines is discussed in this paper along with some past and current sources of exposure and the overall epidemiological data supporting the carcinogenicity of these materials. The low dose effects of aromatic amines in tobacco smoke are considered. In addition, the possibility that such widely used commercial products as hair dyes may be related to urinary bladder cancer in humans is reviewed. Research questions either now being currently addressed or may potentially be addressed by the application of biomarkers to human aromatic amine exposure assessment are highlighted.
Frequencies of poor metabolizers of cytochrome P450 2C19 in esophagus cancer, stomach cancer, lung cancer and bladder cancer in Chinese population.	To investigate the association between cytochrome P450 2C19 (CYP2C19) gene polymorphism and cancer susceptibility by genotyping of CYP2C19 poor metabolizers (PMs) in cancer patients.
Non-occupational risk factors for bladder cancer: a case-control study.	The aim of this study was to determine non-occupational risk factors for bladder cancer in Serbia.
Polymorphism within the cyclin D1 gene is associated with an increased risk of carcinoma in situ in patients with superficial bladder cancer.	To evaluate the prognostic value of CCND1 polymorphism in superficial and invasive transitional cell cancer of the bladder.
Dietary carotenoids and genetic instability modify bladder cancer risk.	In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that carotenoid supplementation is associated with decreased DNA damage, but the role of dietary carotenoids in cancer risk remains controversial because epidemiologic studies have yielded conflicting results. Limited data exist regarding the role of dietary carotenoids in the context of constitutional genetic instability in cancer risk. This case-control study estimated dietary carotenoid intake [microg/(kJ . d)] from a FFQ for 423 patients with bladder cancer and 467 healthy controls, and quantified baseline and benzo[a]pyrene diol epoxide (BPDE)- and gamma-radiation-induced DNA damage in the peripheral blood lymphocytes using the comet assay. Overall, intake of total carotenoids was lower (P < 0.01) for bladder cancer cases (mean +/- SD: 1273.4 +/- 688.9) compared with healthy controls (1501.3 +/- 791.5). When categorized into quartiles, there was an inverse association between increasing levels of carotenoid intake and bladder cancer risk with greatest protective effect [odds ratio (OR) = 0.56, 95% CI, 0.37-0.85] in the quartile with the highest level of intake. Baseline and mutagen-induced DNA damage was significantly higher in cases than in controls; when analyzed jointly with carotenoid intake, high DNA damage and low carotenoid intake were associated with the highest risk. For example, with high baseline DNA damage and low total carotenoid intake, the OR was 3.08 (95% CI, 1.64-5.77); with high baseline DNA damage and high total carotenoid intake, the risk was somewhat attenuated (OR = 2.49, 95% CI, 1.28-4.84). The risk was decreased further for low baseline DNA damage and low total carotenoid intake (OR = 2.18; 95% CI, 1.13-4.22). This study provides evidence of a preventive role for carotenoids in bladder cancer, and these data may have important implications for cancer prevention, especially for individuals susceptible to DNA damage.
Decreasing incidence of urothelial cancer in a Balkan endemic nephropathy region in Serbia. A surgery based study from 1969 to 1998.	The incidence of upper urothelial tumors (UUT) and bladder tumors associated to Balkan endemic nephropathy (BEN) in the region of South Morava River in Serbia, in the 30-year period, was studied. A total of 575 urothelial neoplasms during 10-year period (1989-1998) was analyzed and compared to 659 urothelial neoplasms in the period from 1969 to 1988. UUT had 11.2-fold increased incidence in endemic than in nonendemic areas, however, this was far less than in the period from 1969 to 1988, when they were 57.1 times more frequent. Bladder tumors were 2.3 times more frequent in endemic than in nonendemic areas, but 11.9 times in the previous study from 1969 to 1988. Neoplasms from the area of BEN, regardless of their location, were not histologically different from the neoplasms out of endemic areas. Similarly to the previous reports that BEN looks like a disease that disappears, this is demonstrated also for urothelial tumors, which are the most frequent associated diseases.
Genotypes of TNF-alpha, VEGF, hOGG1, GSTM1, and GSTT1: useful determinants for clinical outcome of bladder cancer.	To determine whether polymorphisms of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), human 8-oxoguanine DNA glycosylase 1 (hOGG1), glutathione S-transferase-mu (GSTM1), and glutathione S-transferase-phi (GSTT1) are risk factors for bladder cancer among Koreans.
Cancer in the Norwegian printing industry.	The aim of this study was to investigate cancer risk among Norwegian workers in the printing industry, particularly lung and bladder cancer.
Mortality and incidence of bladder cancer in benzidine-exposed workers in China.	We examined bladder cancer mortality and incidence to 1981 in 1,972 workers employed in benzidine-exposed jobs in Tianjin, Shanghai, and Jilin, China, between 1972 and 1977, and in 1,974 unexposed workers employed during the same time period. In comparison to general population rates, in the benzidine-exposed group the ratio of observed to expected deaths (SMR) was 17.5 (95% C.I.: 7.5-34.5) and the ratio of observed to expected incident cases (SIR) was 25.0 (95% C.I.: 16.9-35.7). No excess was noted in the unexposed group. The 25-fold increase in bladder cancer incidence in the exposed group was related to level of exposure, with the SIR rising from 4.8 for low exposure to 36.2 for medium exposure, and 158.4 for high exposure. Risks were elevated both for producers of benzidine (SIR = 45.7; 95% C.I.: 20.9-86.8) and for users (SIR = 20.9; 95% C.I.: 12.9-32.0) of benzidine dyes. Benzidine-exposed workers who smoked tobacco had a 31-fold risk (95% C.I.: 20.4-46.4), while non-smoking workers had an 11-fold risk (95% C.I.: 3.6-25.8), suggestive of a multiplicative relationship between these two carcinogens.
Hospital records as a data source for occupational disease surveillance: a feasibility study.	To assess the feasibility of using hospital records for occupational disease surveillance and to evaluate the quality of the industry/occupation (I/O) information available in these records, the computer file of all discharge diagnoses from a large health maintenance organization during 1985 was reviewed. The frequencies of discharge diagnoses previously listed as Sentinel Health Events (Occupational), or SHE (O), were calculated and three possible SHE(O) diagnoses--lung cancer, bladder cancer, and toxic hepatitis--were selected for further review. Outpatient charts of patients discharged for each diagnosis were abstracted with regard to I/O information and the discharged patients were interviewed by telephone to obtain a lifetime occupational history. The accuracy of the I/O information obtained from the hospital chart was compared to that obtained by patient interview by number of digits matched on standard classification codes. The frequencies of matches for occupation and industry were greater for "usual" than for "last" categories with both cancer diagnoses, but were similar for "usual" and "last" categories with toxic hepatitis. To assess the proportion of each possible SHE(O) diagnosis that was related to workplace exposures, the I/O information obtained by interview was rated in a blinded fashion by an experienced occupational medicine physician. The highest probability ratings for work-relatedness were noted for lung cancer, primarily due to asbestos exposure. The results of this study suggest that hospital records can be used to identify possible SHE(O); if adequate I/O information is available, then work-relatedness can be assessed. However, the accuracy of I/O obtained from hospital charts is relatively low. The efficient and accurate collection of I/O information from hospital records will require the use of a simple, easily coded instrument to be routinely administered on admission.
T1 and T2 carcinoma of the urinary bladder: long term results with external, preoperative, or interstitial radiotherapy.	Between January 1974 and December 1984, 273 consecutive patients with cancer of the urinary bladder, Stages T1 or T2, any N, M0, were referred to the radiotherapy department of the Catharina Hospital at Eindhoven, The Netherlands and 265 were treated in a non-randomized fashion according to one of the three following schedules: 137 patients (67 T1, 70 T2) received radiotherapy only; 96 (44 T1, 52 T2) had preoperative radiotherapy followed by cystectomy and diversion according to the Bricker technique in 94/96; 32 patients (13 T1, 19 T2) had low total dose (12 Gy median) external radiotherapy followed by an interstitial cesium implant. The external radiotherapy fields included the pelvic structures. Total dose was 64 Gy median in the radiotherapy-only group and 40 Gy median in the preoperative irradiated group. The median follow-up in survivors was 81 months (range: 15-203). Locoregional relapse was observed in 50% in the group treated by external radiotherapy alone versus 17% in the group treated by preoperative radiation plus surgery and 28% of the patients who received cesium implant. During follow-up, 106/137 (77%), 67/96 (70%) and 13/32 (41%) patients died. In the radiotherapy-alone group, 38 died from intercurrent diseases, 36 from bladder cancer, two from therapy-related complications and cause of death was unknown in 30 patients. In the preoperative radiation group, the figures were 17 for intercurrent deaths, 26 related to progressive bladder cancer, 14 died due to perioperative complications and cause of death was unknown in 10. Cause of death was intercurrent in six and due to bladder cancer in seven patients treated by cesium implant. Probability of survival (calculated from the date of histological diagnosis) for the whole group, with censoring death to intercurrent disease was 53% at 5 years (56% for T1; 51% for T2) and 41% (40% for T1; 43% for T2) at 10 years. No significant difference was observed between T1 and T2 (p = 0.76). Survival in the treatment subgroups was, for patients treated by external radiotherapy only: 50% at 5 years and 33% at 10 years; for patients treated by external radiotherapy and surgery: 49% at 5 years and 42% at 10 years; for patients treated by cesium implant: 76% at 5 years and 76% at 10 years. Survival of patients in the cesium implant group was significantly better than in the other groups (p = 0.0001). Following variables were analyzed using the Cox proportional hazards model: age, gender, T1 or T2 stage, grade, cesium implant or not, and surgery or not.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Urine markers for bladder cancer surveillance: a systematic review.	The follow-up of patients with urothelial cell carcinoma (UCC) of the bladder is done by cystoscopy and, in most cases, cytology. The last decade, many urine-based tests for UCC have been developed and tested in different populations. For the urological practice, considering the amount of follow-up cystoscopies, especially urine markers for recurrent disease would be useful. Therefore, we reviewed the literature on these markers for recurrent UCC and compared our findings with recent review-articles.
Safety and immunoresponse study of intravesical instillation of Taipei-NIPM bacillus Calmette-Guérin.	The intravesical instillation of bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) has proved to be an effective modality for prophylaxis of recurrent superficial bladder cancer and treatment of carcinoma in situ. The domestic BCG, named Taipei-NIPM, which is produced by the National Institute of Preventive Medicine, has been used as an anti-TBC vaccine in Taiwan for decades. In this study, we have investigated the safety and immune response in animals after intravesical BCG treatment to test its feasibility in future clinical application. Weekly instillation of BCG (1 mg/ml, 5-8 x 10(7) CFU/mg) for 6 instillations could induce lymphocytic infiltration, submucosal fibrosis, and granulomatous reaction after 4 weeks with mild decrease of bladder weight and high incidence of hematopyuria (75%). No changes in appetite, body weight, and splenic weight were noticed in the chronically treated rats. A delayed hypersensitivity test through foot pad swelling measurement reached 80% positive rates at 2 weeks. Cystometric study revealed a mild decrease in bladder capacity (33.3%) at 2 weeks and of contractile pressure of the urinary bladder in rats receiving BCG instillations. In addition, increase in lymphocytic infiltration by natural killer (NK) cells against YAC-1 cells could be detected after BCG treatment and this was related to dosage of BCG. The urothelial damage by cauterization and the number of instillations could also enhance NK cell activity. Low toxicity and high safety of intravesical instillation of the domestic BCG are demonstrated by this pilot animal study. This information on local and systemic immune responses can provide a solid base for future efficacy of BCG immunotherapy in bladder cancer patients using this domestic strain BCG.
Study of cellular DNA content by flow cytometry in primary bladder carcinomas. Significance of monoclonal and multiclonal varieties of DNA aneuploidy.	A prospective study of cellular DNA content by flow cytometry was performed on a nonconsecutive series of 67 patients undergoing diagnostic and/or therapeutic transurethral resection for primary urothelial bladder carcinoma. DNA-aneuploidy was present in 82% of the cases (55/67), while multiclonality was found in 45% of the DNA-aneuploid cases (25/55). DNA-ploidy was much more strictly correlated with histological grading (p less than 0.005) than with papillary or non-papillary growth pattern (p less than 0.05) or T staging (p less than 0.05). Of 26 patients with a minimum follow-up of 24 months, 100% (6/6) of cases with DNA-diploid neoplasias showed no signs of disease relapse, versus 10% (2/20) of those with DNA-aneuploid neoplasias (p less than 0.001). Furthermore, tumoral progression occurred in 10 of 20 cases (50%) with aneuploid DNA content. In this latter group of 10 cases a multiclonal DNA-aneuploid pattern was found, with a significant difference (p less than 0.001).
Clinico-pathological features of bladder carcinoma: experience from a tertiary care hospital of Pakistan.	Bladder carcinoma is most common urological malignancy in Pakistan. The objective of the study was to determine the clinico-pathological characteristics of histologically confirmed bladder carcinoma at a tertiary care hospital of South Punjab, Pakistan.
Possible correlation between polymorphism in the tumor necrosis factor-beta gene and the clinicopathological features of bladder cancer in Japanese patients.	In a variety of cancers, several polymorphisms of the tumor necrosis factor (TNF) genes have been reported to result in different clinical outcomes. We investigated whether a polymorphism of the TNF gene is associated with a susceptibility to bladder cancer and its disease status.
Radical laparoscopic nephroureterectomy]	As with the increasingly common presence of laparoscopic surgery in renal adenocarcinoma, the same situation is also occurring with radical management of tumours of the upper urothelium. In this type of clinical condition, it is important to emphasize the different ways to mobilise the distal ureter (with transuretral resection or unroofing, pure laparoscopy, or open), and to take into account that this tumour has the highest risk of implantation at the ports of entry. Here, we conduct a literature review and up-date of the different approaches to the distal urethra.
Preliminary report of a multicentric study on environmental risk factors in Ta-T1 transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. A study from Gruppo Studi Tumori Urologici Foundation.	The distribution of potential environmental risk factors among patients affected by superficial transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (TCCB) has been analyzed.
Cancer of the urinary bladder and prostatic gland in Kalmykia]	The article presents data on prevalence of urological cancer in Kalmykia by environmental zones and among males and females. In 1998 urological cancer accounted for 18.6% of all cancer cases. Urinary system cancer occurred in 6.8% of all cancer cases in the republic in 1997, prostatic cancer was encountered in 31.7%. In the recent decade prostatic cancer morbidity has risen from 6.9 to 16.9 per 100000, while the rate of advanced cases of urological cancer decreased. Transrectal ultrasonic investigation, puncture biopsy of the prostate, assay for PSA are among available diagnostic methods.
Prospective study of body mass index, height, physical activity and incidence of bladder cancer in US men and women.	We evaluated prospectively the association between body mass index (BMI), height, recreational physical activity and the risk of bladder cancer among US adults. Data were used from 2 ongoing cohorts, the Health Professionals Follow-up Study and the Nurses' Health Study, with 3,542,012 years of follow-up and 866 incident bladder cancer cases (men = 507; women = 359) for the anthropometric analysis and 1,890,476 years of follow-up and 706 incident bladder cancer cases (men = 502; women = 204) for the physical activity analysis. Cox proportional hazard models were used to estimate incidence rate ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) between BMI, height, physical activity and bladder cancer risk adjusting for age, pack-years of cigarette smoking and current smoking. Estimates from each cohort were pooled using a random-effects model. We observed no association between baseline BMI and bladder cancer risk, even when we compared a BMI of > or =30 kg/m(2) to a BMI of 18-22.9 kg/m(2) [pooled multivariate (MV) RR, 1.16; 95% CI: 0.89-1.52]. A weak, but statistically significant, association was observed for the same comparison after excluding bladder cancer cases diagnosed within the first 4 years of follow-up (pooled MV RR, 1.33; 95% CI: 1.01-1.76). Height was not related to bladder cancer risk (pooled MV RR, 0.82; 95% CI: 0.65-1.03, top vs. bottom quintile). Total recreational physical activity also was not associated with the risk of bladder cancer (pooled MV RR, 0.97; 95% CI: 0.77-1.24, top vs. bottom quintile). Our findings do not support a role for BMI, height or physical activity in bladder carcinogenesis.
Genotypes, haplotypes and diplotypes of XPC and risk of bladder cancer.	Xeroderma pigmentosum complementation group C (XPC) is responsible for DNA damage recognition in the initial steps of the nucleotide excision repair pathway. Genetic variations in the XPC gene may be associated with impaired protein function and increased risk for bladder cancer. To elucidate the roles of common polymorphisms of XPC in the etiology of bladder cancer, we conducted a hospital-based case-control study including 578 Caucasian incident bladder cancer patients and 578 age- and gender-matched Caucasian controls. We analyzed the associations of the genotypes, haplotypes and diplotypes of three XPC polymorphisms, Ala499Val (C-->T), PAT (-/+) and Lys939Gln (A-->C), with the risk of bladder cancer. No significant association was found for any individual polymorphism. However, the C-C and T-A (indicated as in the order of Ala499Val-PAT-Lys939Gln) haplotypes were associated with reduced bladder cancer risks, with odds ratios (ORs) of 0.51 [95% confidence interval (CI) = 0.34-0.78] and 0.79 (0.60-1.04), respectively. The protective effects were more evident in men, people younger than 59 years, and ever-smokers. We also found that four diplotypes were significantly associated with reduced bladder cancer risk, with ORs (and 95% CIs) of 0.53 (0.34-0.82) for C-A/T-A, 0.48 (0.27-0.84) for C-A/C-C, 0.18 (0.053-0.60) for C-C/C-C and 0.57 (0.36-0.90) for C+C/C+C. These results suggest that sequence variants in the XPC gene might modulate the risk of bladder cancer.
Renal diagnosis of chronic hemodialysis patients with urinary tract transitional cell carcinoma in Taiwan.	Transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) is the most common malignancy in dialysis patients of Taiwan. The reason for such a high incidence of TCC is undetermined. The correlation between the underlying renal disease and the development of TCC was investigated.
Genetic polymorphisms in MTHFR 677 and 1298, GSTM1 and T1, and metabolism of arsenic.	Methylation is the primary route of metabolism of inorganic arsenic in humans, and previous studies showed that interindividual differences in arsenic methylation may have important impacts on susceptibility to arsenic-induced cancer. To date, the factors that regulate arsenic methylation in humans are mostly unknown. Urinary arsenic methylation patterns and genetic polymorphisms in methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) were investigated in 170 subjects from an arsenic-exposed region in Argentina. Previous studies showed that subjects with the TT/AA polymorphisms at MTHFR 677 and 1298 have lower MTHFR activity than others. In this study, it was found that subjects with the TT/AA variant of MTHFR 677/1298 excreted a significantly higher proportion of ingested arsenic as inorganic arsenic and a lower proportion as dimethylarsinic acid. Women with the null genotype of GSTM1 excreted a significantly higher proportion of arsenic as monomethylarsonate than women with the active genotype. No associations were seen between polymorphisms in GSTT1 and arsenic methylation. This is the first study to report (1) associations between MTHFR and arsenic metabolism in humans, and (2) gender differences between genetic polymorphisms and urinary arsenic methylation patterns. Overall, this study provides evidence that MTHFR and GSTM1 are involved in arsenic metabolism in humans, and polymorphisms in the genes that encode these enzymes may play a role in susceptibility to arsenic-induced cancer.
Point and interval estimates of partial population attributable risks in cohort studies: examples and software.	The concept of the population attributable risk (PAR) percent has found widespread application in public health research. This quantity describes the proportion of a disease which could be prevented if a specific exposure were to be eliminated from a target population. We present methods for obtaining point and interval estimates of partial PARs, where the impact on disease burden for some presumably modifiable determinants is estimated in, and applied to, a cohort study. When the disease is multifactorial, the partial PAR must, in general, be used to quantify the proportion of disease which can be prevented if a specific exposure or group of exposures is eliminated from a target population, while the distribution of other modifiable and non-modifiable risk factors is unchanged. The methods are illustrated in a study of risk factors for bladder cancer incidence (Michaud DS et al., New England J Med 340 (1999) 1390). A user-friendly SAS macro implementing the methods described in this paper is available via the worldwide web.
Non-alcoholic beverages and risk of bladder cancer in Uruguay.	Bladder cancer is the fourth most frequent malignancy among Uruguayan men. A previous study from Uruguay suggested a high risk of bladder cancer associated with maté drinking. We conducted an additional case-control study in order to further explore the role of non-alcoholic beverages in bladder carcinogenesis.
Cutaneous uretero-ureterostomy: a technique of urinary diversion for high-risk patients with bladder cancer.	A simplified technique of cutaneous ureterostomy (CU) is presented for the treatment of high-risk bladder cancer patients. From 1968 to 2003, 2118 cystectomies with CU were performed for bladder cancer patients with uremic manifestations. The mean age was 67.4 +/- 27.3; 1206 patients were men and 912 were women. Cutaneous uretero-ureterostomy (CUU) was performed by three methods: (a) one ureter was brought across the midline and anastomosed end-to-side to the other ureter (end-to-side uretero-ureterostomy, ESUU); (b) the two ureters were placed side by side in a double-barrel fashion (double-barrel ureterostomy, DBU); or (c) the two distal ureteric ends were anastomosed together before fixation to the skin (side-to-side uretero-ureterostomy, SSUU). Selection of the technique depended on ureteric length and girth. No complications specific to CUU have occurred. Serum creatinine was normalized and intravenous pyelogram (IVP) showed improvement of obstructive manifestations and renal function. Ureterostomy stenosis was more common in ESUU than in DBU and SSUU; it responded to dilatation. This simple and easy procedure is shown to have a low rate of operative and postoperative complications and is indicated for high-risk patients with bladder cancer.
Risk factors for bladder cancer.	To summarize risk factors for bladder cancer, emphasizing the role of recently established associations and to present some ongoing debates on the issue.
Benign prostatic hyperplasia and subsequent risk of bladder cancer.	We evaluated the risk of bladder cancer in a cohort of 79,280 Swedish men hospitalised for benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), identified in the Swedish Inpatient Register between 1964 and 1983 and followed until 1989 via multiple record linkages with nationwide data on cancer registry, death and emigration. Standardised incidence ratios (SIRs), the ratios of the observed to the expected numbers of incident bladder cancers, were used to calculate the risk associated with BPH. The expected number was calculated by multiplying the number of person-years by the age-specific cancer incidence rates in Sweden for each 5-year age group and calendar year of observation. Analyses were stratified by BPH treatment, latency, calendar year and presence of genitourinary (GU) comorbid conditions. After excluding the first 3 years of follow-up after the index hospitalisation, we observed 506 incident bladder cancer cases during follow-up in the cohort. No overall increased risk of bladder cancer was apparent in our main analysis involving the entire BPH cohort. However, among BPH patients with transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), there was an increased risk in all follow-up periods; SIRs of bladder cancer during years 4-6 of follow-up was 1.22 (95% confidence interval=1.02-1.46), 1.32 for 7-9 years of follow-up, and 1.47 for 10-26 years of follow-up. SIRs of bladder cancer among TURP-treated BPH patients were particularly elevated among those with comorbid conditions of the GU tract (e.g., stone, infection, etc.); 1.72, 1.74 and 2.01 for 4-6, 7-9, 10-26 years of follow-up, respectively, and also for those whose diagnoses occurred before 1975, when TURP was more likely to be performed by a urologist than a general practitioner: 1.87, 1.90 and 1.74, respectively. These findings suggest that BPH overall is not associated with bladder cancer risk. However, among men treated with TURP, particularly those with other comorbid GU tract conditions, risk of bladder cancer was elevated.
Functional polymorphisms of JWA gene are associated with risk of bladder cancer.	The JWA gene is a novel cell differentiation-related gene thought to be a responsive gene in response to DNA damage and repair induced by environmental stressors. Recently, a novel single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) was identified in the promoter of the JWA gene (-76GC) that may alter the transcription activity and thus play a role in increased risk of bladder cancer. Further, studies were conducted to screen for more novel variants in the JWA exons by using PCR-SSCP (polymerase chain reaction-single-strand conformation polymorphism) followed by PCR-RFLP (PCR restriction fragment length polymorphism) methods. Finally, the functional relevance of the newly identified genetic variants in a hospital-based case-control study of 215 bladder cancer patients and 250 cancer-free controls was evaluated. In addition to the -76GC polymorphism, another novel SNP (454CA in exon2 and 723TG in exon 3) of JWA was identified. The -76GC allele and genotype frequencies were found to vary in different ethnic groups. The -76C allele and 454A allele were both associated with significantly increased risk of bladder cancer. In contrast, the 723GG genotype was associated with a decreased risk of bladder cancer. Furthermore, -76C and 454A together increased the risk of bladder caner using haplotype and stratification analysis. In conclusion, the three novel functional genetic polymorphisms of JWA gene, -76GC, 454CA, and 723TG, appear to contribute to the etiology of bladder cancer.
Chronic inflammation and bladder cancer.	The relation between Schistosomiasis and bladder cancer is well-established and accounts for the high rates of bladder cancer in a number of developing countries, including Egypt. In developed countries, transitional cell carcinoma is the predominant type of bladder cancer, whereas in Schistosomiasis-endemic regions, squamous cell carcinoma is the most common type. In this review, experimental and observational data on infection, inflammation, and bladder cancer are summarized with special emphasis on transitional cell carcinoma. Findings from numerous studies suggest that inflammation is likely to have an important role in bladder carcinogenesis in developed countries. Future studies need to focus in greater detail on risk factors that increase inflammation of the bladder, examine genetic susceptibility to inflammatory pathways, and include markers of inflammation measured prior to cancer diagnosis. Understanding the role of inflammation on transitional cell carcinogenesis may provide important insights on how to prevent the sixth most common cancer in the United States.
Bladder cancer and occupation: a descriptive analysis in Haute Normandie in 2003]	Haute Normandie is characterized by the presence of a large number of industries likely to have exposed their employees to a risk of bladder cancer. The objective of the study performed by Assurance Maladie (national health insurance) and Réseau d'Onco-Urologie de Haute Normandie (ROUHN) (Haute Normandie Urological Oncology Network) was to describe the epidemiological characteristics of bladder cancers and to estimate the proportion of potentially work-related cancers.
Risk of cancer among firefighters: a quantitative review of selected malignancies.	Using the fixed-effect model, the author quantitatively estimated the risks of cancers of the colon, bladder, kidneys, and brain as well as non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and leukemia among firefighters. The risk of these six cancers was not markedly elevated when cohort mortality studies were considered. When all mortality studies were considered, however, there was a mild increase in risk for kidney cancer and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, with a summary relative risk (sumRR) of 1.22 (95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.02-1.43) and 1.40 (95% CI = 1.20-1.60), respectively. A subcohort analysis based on duration of employment revealed that firefighters with 30 or more years of employment had a significantly increased mortality risk for colon cancer, sumRR of 1.51 (95% CI = 1.05-2.11); kidney cancer, sumRR of 6.25 (95% CI = 1.70-16.00); brain cancer, sumRR of 2.53 (95% CI = 1.27 7.07); and leukemia, sumRR of 2.87 (95% CI = 1.43-5.14). After firefighters had 40 or more years of employment, their risk of mortality was significantly increased for colon cancer, sumRR of 4.71 (95% CI = 2.03-9.27); kidney cancer, sumRR of 36.12 (95% CI = 4.03-120.42); and bladder cancer, sumRR of 5.7 (95% CI = 1.56-14.63). The risk for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma was elevated but not significantly so among firefighters with 20 or more years of employment, with sumRR of 1.72 (95% CI = 0.90-3.31). Kidney cancer risk was significantly elevated as early as the second decade of employment.
Pattern of urological malignancy in Zambia. A hospital-based histopathological study.	The pattern of urological malignancy among the indigenous population of Zambia (determined on the basis of histopathological reports from a major national hospital during an 8-year period) is presented. A total of 6514 malignancies were observed, of which 784 (12%) were of urological origin. Bladder carcinoma, predominantly squamous type, was the commonest urological tumour (51%), followed by carcinoma of the prostate (26%), carcinoma of the penis (18%), renal tumours (4.3%) and testicular malignancy (0.7%). In nearly 32% of the bladder tumours, bilharzial ova were demonstrated histopathologically. Nephroblastoma accounted for 70% of the renal tumours and from a total of 7 cases of testicular tumours 5 were embryonal carcinoma and 2 seminoma. A brief reference is made to the pattern and aetiology of urological malignancies in some neighbouring countries.
Radiation therapy for prostate cancer increases subsequent risk of bladder and rectal cancer: a population based cohort study.	Pre-prostate specific antigen era series demonstrated an increased risk of bladder cancer and rectal cancer in men who received radiotherapy for prostate cancer. We estimated the risk of secondary bladder cancer and rectal cancer after prostate radiotherapy using a contemporary population based cohort.
Cultured milk, yogurt, and dairy intake in relation to bladder cancer risk in a prospective study of Swedish women and men.	Findings from epidemiologic studies of the effect of dairy foods (mainly milk) on the risk of bladder cancer have been inconsistent.
Coffee, green tea, and caffeine consumption and subsequent risk of bladder cancer in relation to smoking status: a prospective study in Japan.	Coffee and caffeine consumption are thought to increase the risk of bladder cancer. However, few studies have stratified this risk by smoking status, which is a potential confounder. Here, we investigated the association between coffee, green tea (another major source of caffeine), and caffeine, and bladder cancer incidence in relation to smoking status. We conducted a population-based prospective study in a cohort of Japanese, comprising a total of 49 566 men and 54 874 women aged 40–69 years who reported their coffee and green tea consumption at baseline. During follow-up from 1990 through 2005, 164 men and 42 women were newly diagnosed with bladder cancer. Cigarette smoking was associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer, with a strong dose–response relationship. Coffee was positively associated with bladder cancer risk in men, without statistical significance. When stratified by smoking status, coffee and caffeine consumption were associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer in never- or former-smoking men, with hazard ratios (95% confidence interval) in the highest categories of coffee (one or more cups per day) and caffeine consumption compared with the lowest of 2.24 (95% CI = 1.21–4.16) and 2.05 (95% CI = 1.15–3.66), respectively. In conclusion, cigarette smoking was confirmed as a risk factor for bladder cancer. Coffee and caffeine may be associated with an increased bladder cancer risk in never or former smokers among Japanese men.
Tobacco smoke inhalation pattern, tobacco type, and bladder cancer in Spain.	The association between tobacco smoking and bladder cancer was investigated in a multicenter case-control study conducted in five provinces of Spain between 1983 and 1986. A matched analysis was carried out in males, based on 430 histologically confirmed cases, 405 hospital controls, and 386 population controls, matched by age and place of residence. An increased risk was found for smokers as compared with nonsmokers (odds ratio (OR) = 3.79, 95% confidence intervals (CI) 2.41-5.97), and this increase was significantly associated with the intensity of smoking. Smokers of filter-tipped cigarettes had a reduced risk as compared with smokers of non-filter-tipped cigarettes (OR = 0.57, 95% CI 0.32-1.02). A diminution of risk was also observed for smokers of low-tar and low-nicotine ("light") cigarettes. Depth of inhalation was strongly associated with illness. No difference was shown in the logistic regression model between smokers of black tobacco and smokers of blond tobacco after controlling for depth of inhalation. Although the number of persons who smoked blond tobacco exclusively was small, the results suggest that it is important to consider inhalation patterns when studying risk variations between smokers of black tobacco and smokers of blond tobacco. The age at which a person started to smoke did not appear to affect risk. An analysis of the decrease in risk associated with years since quitting smoking suggested that different components of cigarette smoke may play a role at different stages of the carcinogenic process.
Bladder cancer and reproductive factors among women in Spain.	Hormonal factors, possibly related to reproductive characteristics, may play a role in the risk of bladder cancer among women. To study this, we investigated the effects of reproductive factors on female bladder cancer risk. Information on reproductive and other risk factors was gathered in personal interviews from 152 female cases and 166 matched controls from 18 hospitals in five regions of Spain during 1998–2001. Logistic regression was used to estimate the association between bladder cancer and reproductive factors, including ever-parous status, age at first live birth, age at last live birth, age at menarche, age at menopause, menopausal status, and duration of menstruation. After adjustment for age, smoking, and high-risk occupation, ever-parous women were at decreased risk relative to nulliparous women (odds ratio = 0.43, 95% confidence interval = 0.21–0.87). There was no consistent pattern in risk with the age- or duration-related reproductive factors (e.g., age at first live birth, age at last live birth, age at menarche, age at menopause, menopausal status, and duration of menstruation) that we evaluated. Women have a lower risk of bladder cancer than men, and hormonal factors related to childbearing may play a role.
Micronutrient intake and risk of urothelial carcinoma in a prospective Danish cohort.	A range of plausible biological mechanisms support preventive effects of micronutrients in bladder cancer. So far, however, results from the few epidemiological studies on the relation have been inconsistent, with no clear associations found.
Proportion of lung and bladder cancers in males resulting from occupation: a systematic approach.	Studies conducted in several countries that investigated the relationship of occupation and cancer in men were reviewed and compared. Estimates of the proportion of cancers due to occupational exposure that occurred in the general population were analyzed, and sources of variation were explored. A systematic and standardized evaluation of studies on lung and bladder cancer were undertaken, and only investigations that allowed for confounding from tobacco smoking were included. The proportion of lung cancers attributable to occupation ranged between 1 and 5% (when considering only exposure to asbestos) and 40% (in a study with a high proportion of subjects exposed to ionizing radiation); for bladder cancer, estimates were between 0 and 3% in a few studies and between 16 and 24% in several investigations. No similar attempt of systematic comparison was possible for other cancers.
Bladder tumors in West Lolland. A case-control study of occupational exposure in a risk region]	The Danish Cancer Register recorded a significant excess incidence of bladder tumours among men in West Lolland during the period 1970 and 1979. No corresponding excess incidence of cancer of the lung was recorded. This might suggest that causes other than increased prevalence of smokers explain the recorded findings. A case-control investigation was carried out to illustrate possible occupational causal factors with the aid of the Cancer Register database concerning cancer and occupation which is based on linking of the Cancer Register with the Supplementary Pension Fund (additional pensions supplementary pension fund awarded via the Labour Market.) Increased risks of bladder tumours were demonstrated in several occupations which are recognized as involving a risk for this disease. A significantly increased risk was demonstrated in the transport occupation. No evidence was found to suggest that the peculiar occupational structure of the region could explain the excess risk registered.
Oral or intravesical bacillus Calmette-Guerin immunoprophylaxis in bladder carcinoma.	A total of 71 patients with superficial transitional cell carcinoma underwent transurethral resection of bladder tumor. All patients had stage pTa or pT1 transitional cell carcinoma or carcinoma in situ without other concurrent malignancies. The patients were assigned to 3 treatment groups: control group--transurethral resection discontinued within the study, oral bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) group--transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus BCG (Moreau) and intravesical BCG group--transurethral resection of bladder tumor plus BCG. Of 9 patients in the control group 8 (89%) experienced tumor recurrence during a mean followup of 20 months. Of the 28 patients in the oral BCG group 11 (39.3%) had recurrence during a mean followup of 36 months. Of the 34 patients in the intravesical group 6 (18%) had recurrence in a 24-month mean followup. The incidence of complications was higher in the intravesical (41.2%) than in the oral BCG group (28.5%). These results show that intravesical BCG is a more effective immunotherapy; however, oral BCG can be used in patients who do not accept intravesical BCG administration.
Simultaneous presentation of adenocarcinoma of prostate and transitional cell carcinoma of bladder.	Simultaneous presentation of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder and adenocarcinoma of the prostate is not uncommon. Twenty-two patients were diagnosed as having simultaneous or concurrent presentation of prostate and bladder carcinomas between January 1970 and July 1986. The overall five-year survival was 40 percent, with patients presenting with prostate cancer doing better (50%) than those with bladder cancer (32%). Retrospective review of these cases suggests that primary therapy should be directed to the most advanced cancer. Incidental prostate cancer may be "cured" with a cystoprostatectomy and, when indicated, radiation therapy added postoperatively for the bladder cancer. Eleven patients presented with Stage A prostate cancer: 10 of the 11 were treated for their bladder cancer. Treatment was usually radical cystoprostatectomy with or without postoperative radiation. None died of prostate cancer. Patients presenting with advanced stage prostate cancer have had recurrence or have died of the cancer.
Bladder cancer in a low risk population: results from the Adventist Health Study.	A cohort study of bladder cancer was conducted in a population of California Seventh-day Adventists. Most Seventh-day Adventists use neither tobacco nor alcohol yet experience a large degree of variation in dietary habits. Therefore, diet and other lifestyle habits were evaluated in this unique population. In 1976, 34,198 non-Hispanic white Seventh-day Adventists in California completed a detailed lifestyle questionnaire which included a 51-item food frequency section. This cohort was then followed until the end of 1982 during which time all newly diagnosed malignancies were detected. In order to evaluate the relation between several variables hypothesized to be associated with altered bladder cancer risk, age-, sex-, and smoking-adjusted relative risks (incidence rate ratios) were calculated using the method of Mantel-Haenszel adopted for person-time data. Multivariate analyses were conducted using the Cox Proportional Hazards Regression model. Between the return of the questionnaire and the end of follow-up, there were 52 histologically confirmed bladder cancers detected in the cohort. Increasing age, male gender, and a history of cigarette smoking were all significantly associated with increased bladder cancer risk. In addition, residence in a rural area was associated with significantly increased risk (relative risk (RR) = 1.80) as was high consumption of meat, poultry, and fish (RR = 2.57).
Cancer incidence among foundry workers in Denmark.	Cancer incidence was studied among 6,144 male foundry workers who were invited to participate in either of two Danish national silicosis surveys conducted during 1967-1969 and 1972-1974. Cancer incidence was followed through to the end of 1985 by computerized linkage to the Danish Cancer Registry, and Standardized Morbidity Ratios (SMRs) were calculated based on incidence rates for the Danish population. For the entire cohort, significantly elevated SMRs were seen for all cancers (SMR, 1.09; 95% CI, 1.01-1.18) and lung cancer (SMR, 1.30; 95% CI, 1.12-1.51), and SMRs were at the borderline of statistical significance for bladder cancer (SMR, 1.24; 95% CI, 0.97-1.59). Excess lung and bladder cancer risk were confined to workers who had worked in foundries for at least 20 y. There was a positive correlation between silicosis prevalence in employees at the foundries at the time of the x-ray examinations and lung cancer incidence during the follow-up period. Squamous cell carcinomas, anaplastic carcinomas, and other lung cancers accounted for the excess lung cancer risk, whereas there was not excess risk among the foundry workers for adenocarcinomas of the lung.
Clinicopathological study of upper urinary tract tumors associated with bladder tumors.	Among 535 cases of urothelial tumors (upper urinary tract and bladder tumors) from 1970 to 1988, 40 had upper urinary tract tumor associated with bladder tumor. Of 40 cases, 18 (45%) were synchronous, 17 (43%) were metachronous with primary upper urinary tract tumor followed by subsequent bladder tumor 18.5 +/- 14.1 (means +/- SD) months later and 5 (12%) were metachronous with primary bladder tumor followed by subsequent upper urinary tract tumor 40.2 +/- 13.6 months later. The incidence (17/52 = 0.32) of bladder tumor occurrence subsequent to primary upper urinary tract tumor was much higher than that (5/465 = 0.01) of upper urinary tract tumor subsequent to primary bladder tumor. The histologic grades of upper urinary tract tumor and associated bladder tumor were consistent in 73%. Except in 1 case, multiple occurrence of upper urinary tract tumor was always observed unilaterally on the side involved. The current results not only support the theory of multicentricity but raise the possibility that tumor cell implantation may play some role at least in the development of bladder tumor subsequent to upper urinary tract tumor.
Ultraviolet B irradiance and incidence rates of bladder cancer in 174 countries.	Although nearly half of bladder cancer cases are due to smoking, the cause of nearly half is unexplained.
Determination of 2,5-toluylenediamine (2,5-TDA) and aromatic amines in urine after personal application of hair dyes: kinetics and doses.	The personal use of hair dye products is currently under discussion due to the potentially increased risk of bladder cancer among long-time users described in epidemiological literature. In order to investigate the dermal absorption of aromatic diamines as well as aromatic amines possibly present as contaminants in hair dye formulations, we conducted a biomonitoring study under real-life conditions and calculated kinetics and doses for the urinary excretion. Urine samples of two female subjects were collected for a time period of 48 h after personal application of a hair dye cream and analysed for aromatic diamines as well as o-toluidine and 4-aminobiphenyl using highly specific GC/MS-methods. 2,5-Toluylenediamine (2,5-TDA) as active ingredient of hair dyes is rapidly absorbed dermally. After a distribution phase of 12 h, 2,5-TDA is excreted with a half-time of 8 h. Excretion was 90% complete within 24 h after application. The doses of 2,5-TDA excreted within 48 h were 700 μg for application of a brown-reddish hair dye cream and 1.5 mg for the application of a brown-black hair dye cream. Urinary 4-aminobiphenyl as well as contaminations with other aromatic diamines were not detectable in our study. Due to the artifactual formation of o-toluidine in the presence of high concentrations of urinary 2,5-TDA, our results could not prove an increased internal exposure of humans to carcinogenic amines after personal application of hair dyes.
Consumption of animal products, olive oil and dietary fat and results from the Belgian case-control study on bladder cancer risk.	The Western diet typically consists of high levels of saturated fat from animal products and has been associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer. Whilst olive oil, the predominant fat in the Mediterranean diet, has been associated with many health benefits its role in bladder cancer aetiology is still unknown. Therefore, we investigated the effect of intake of animal products, olive oil and other major dietary fats on bladder cancer risk.
Variety in vegetable and fruit consumption and risk of bladder cancer in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition.	Recent research does not show an association between fruit and vegetable consumption and bladder cancer risk. None of these studies investigated variety in fruit and vegetable consumption, which may capture different aspects of consumption. We investigated whether a varied consumption of vegetables and fruits is associated with bladder cancer risk in the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer and Nutrition (EPIC) study. Detailed data on food consumption and complete follow-up for cancer incidence were available for 452,185 participants, who were recruited from ten European countries. After a mean follow-up of 8.7 years, 874 participants were diagnosed with bladder cancer. Diet diversity scores (DDSs) were used to quantify the variety in fruit and vegetable consumption. Multivariable Cox proportional hazard models were used to assess the effect of the DDSs on bladder cancer risk. There was no evidence of a statistically significant association between bladder cancer risk and any of the DDSs when these scores were considered as continuous covariates. However, the hazard ratio (HR) for the highest tertile of the DDS for combined fruit and vegetable consumption was marginally significant compared to the lowest (HR = 1.30, 95% confidence interval: 1.00-1.69, p-trend = 0.05). In EPIC, there is no clear association between a varied fruit and vegetable consumption and bladder cancer risk. This finding provides further evidence for the absence of any strong association between fruit and vegetable consumption as measured by a food frequency questionnaire and bladder cancer risk.
Risk group stratification to predict recurrence after transurethral resection in Japanese patients with stage Ta and T1 bladder tumours: validation study on the European Association of Urology guidelines.	• To validate the European Association of Urology (EAU) guidelines on risk group stratification to predict recurrence in Japanese patients with stage Ta and T1 bladder tumours.
External validation and applicability of the EORTC risk tables for non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer.	To perform an external validation of the EORTC risk tables and to evaluate their applicability in the patients of our institution by comparing the actual risk of recurrence and progression in our series to those obtained through the application of the EORTC tables.
A semiparametric estimator of the bivariate distribution function for censored gap times.	Let (T(1), T(2)) be gap times corresponding to two consecutive events, which are observed subject to random right-censoring. In this paper, a semiparametric estimator of the bivariate distribution function of (T(1), T(2)) and, more generally, of a functional E [φ(T(1),T(2))] is proposed. We assume that the probability of censoring for T(2) given the (possibly censored) gap times belongs to a parametric family of binary regression curves. We investigate the conditions under which the introduced estimator is consistent. We explore the finite sample behavior of the estimator and of its bootstrap standard error through simulations. The main conclusion of this paper is that the semiparametric estimator may be much more efficient than purely nonparametric methods. Real data illustration is included.
Incidence of fibroblast growth factor receptor 3 gene (FGFR3) A248C, S249C, G372C, and T375C mutations in bladder cancer.	Bladder cancer is the most frequent cancer of the urinary system. Fibroblast growth factor receptors (FGFR) belong to the tyrosine kinase family and have important roles in cell differentiation and proliferation and embryogenesis. FGFR3 is located on chromosome 4p16.3, and missense mutations of FGFR3 are associated with autosomal dominant human skeletal disorders and have some oncogenic effects. We examined the incidence of FGFR3 thanatophoric dysplasia mutations located in exon 7, A248C and S249C, and in exon 10, G372C and T375C, and their correlation with clinical-pathological parameters in bladder carcinoma patients. Fifty-six paraffin-embedded specimens of transitional cell carcinoma of the urinary bladder were included in this study. Analysis of FGFR3 thanatophoric dysplasia mutations located in exon 7, A248C and S249C, and in exon 10, G372C and T375C, was performed by PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and DNA sequencing. FGFR3 thanatophoric dysplasia mutations located in exon 7, A248C and S249C, and in exon 10, G372C and T375C, were detected in 33 of the 56 patients (heterozygous mutant). Among the 56 transitional cell carcinomas, missense point mutations were detected in seven of them at codon A248C, 28 of them at codon S249C, and three of them at codon T375C, similar to data from previous reports. When the results of the FGFR3 thanatophoric dysplasia mutations located in exon 7, A248C and S249C and in exon 10, G372C and T375C, were analyzed one by one or as a group, despite the findings of previous research reports, our data suggest that these mutations are detected homogenously regardless of the tumor classification and tumor grade.
Impact of automated data collection from urology offices: improving incidence and treatment reporting in urologic cancers.	Urologic cancers represent a substantial proportion of the total cancer burden, yet the true burden of these cancers is unknown due to gaps in current cancer surveillance systems. Prostate and bladder cancers in particular may be underreported due to increased availability of outpatient care. Thus, there is a critical need to develop systems to completely and accurately capture longitudinal data to understand the true patterns of care and outcomes for these cancers.
Radical cystectomy in patients over 70 years of age: impact of comorbidity on perioperative morbidity and mortality.	To analyze the impact of comorbidity on the perioperative complication rate after radical cystectomy in patients over 70 year of age.
Incidence of secondary cancer development after high-dose intensity-modulated radiotherapy and image-guided brachytherapy for the treatment of localized prostate cancer.	To report the incidence and excess risk of second malignancy (SM) development compared with the general population after external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) and brachytherapy to treat prostate cancer.
Factors associated with non-orthotopic urinary diversion after radical cystectomy.	Preoperative factors favoring the performance of non-orthotopic bladder substitution (OBS) after radical cystectomy for muscle-invasive bladder cancer were identified.
Comorbidity relationship to outcome of radical cystectomy in Chinese: a single institution study with the ACE-27 comorbidity index.	To determine the relationship between comorbidity and outcome after radical cystectomy in Chinese patients by using the Adult Comorbidity Evaluation (ACE)-27 index. Two-hundred-and-forty-six patients treated with radical cystectomy at the Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South University, Hunan Province, China between 2000 and 2010 were retrospectively analyzed. Medical records were reviewed for age, gender, delayed time of radical cystectomy, urinary diversion type, pelvic lymphadenectomy status, TNM stage, and pathological grade. Comorbidity information was assessed by the ACE-27 index. The outcome measurement was overall survival. Univariate and multivariate Cox proportional hazards regression analyses were used to determine the association between comorbidity and outcome. The study population consisted of 215 (87.40%) males and 31 (12.60%) females with a mean age of 62±11 years. Median duration of follow-up was 47±31 months. A total of 151 (61.38%) patents died during follow-up. Of those, 118 (47.97%) had at least one comorbidity. According to the ACE-27 scores, 128 (52.03%) patients had no comorbidity, 79 (32.11%) had mild, 33 (13.41%) had moderate, and 6 (2.45%) had severe comorbidities. Multivariate analysis indicated that moderate (p=0.002) and severe (p<0.001) comorbidity was significantly associated with decreased overall survival. In addition, age ≥70 years (p=0.002), delayed time of radical cystectomy >12 weeks (p=0.044), pelvic lymphadenectomy status (p=0.014), and TNM stage >T3 (p<0.001) were determined to be independent risk factors of overall survival. Increasing severity of comorbidity statistically correlated with decreased overall survival after radical cystectomy.
Cancer incidence among patients of the U.S. Veterans Affairs Health Care System.	Approximately 40,000 incident cancer cases are reported in the Veterans Affairs Central Cancer Registry (VACCR) annually (approximately 3% of U.S. cancer cases). Our objective was to provide the first comprehensive description of cancer incidence as reported in VACCR.
Intradiverticular bladder tumours: review of the Cancer Committee of the French Association of Urology]	Cancer Committee of the French Association of Urology (CCAFU) conducted a review of the epidemiology, diagnosis and treatment of intradiverticular bladder tumours (TVID) and proposed therapeutic management.
Patterns of local recurrence after radical cystectomy in a contemporary series of patients with muscle-invasive bladder cancer.	To describe the epidemiology, clinical features, and prognostic factors of local recurrence (LR) in a large case series of patients treated by radical cystectomy (RC) for bladder cancer.
Smoking and survival after radical cystectomy for bladder cancer.	To present our long-term follow-up data to investigate whether cigarette smoking is associated with the prognosis of bladder cancer after radical cystectomy. Despite the close link between cigarette smoking and the development of bladder cancer, little is known about the influence of cigarette smoking on the bladder cancer prognosis after radical cystectomy.
Likelihood ratio test for detecting gene (G)-environment (E) interactions under an additive risk model exploiting G-E independence for case-control data.	There has been a long-standing controversy in epidemiology with regard to an appropriate risk scale for testing interactions between genes (G) and environmental exposure (E ). Although interaction tests based on the logistic model-which approximates the multiplicative risk for rare diseases-have been more widely applied because of its convenience in statistical modeling, interactions under additive risk models have been regarded as closer to true biologic interactions and more useful in intervention-related decision-making processes in public health. It has been well known that exploiting a natural assumption of G-E independence for the underlying population can dramatically increase statistical power for detecting multiplicative interactions in case-control studies. However, the implication of the independence assumption for tests for additive interaction has not been previously investigated. In this article, the authors develop a likelihood ratio test for detecting additive interactions for case-control studies that incorporates the G-E independence assumption. Numerical investigation of power suggests that incorporation of the independence assumption can enhance the efficiency of the test for additive interaction by 2- to 2.5-fold. The authors illustrate their method by applying it to data from a bladder cancer study.
Cancer incidence in a cohort of Swedish chimney sweeps, 1958-2006.	We examined cancer incidence in an expanded cohort of Swedish chimney sweeps.
Genito-urological cancers in elderly patients.	Age is now widely accepted as the greatest single risk factor for developing cancer, and cancer is considered primarily as a disease of the elderly. Furthermore, a characteristic of aging is the progressive deterioration of immune function known as immunosenescence. In addition to the increased risk of occurrence of cancer among older patients, they are more predisposed to poor outcomes after definitive treatment. Therapies, outcomes and mortality are often influenced by age and elderly must have a specific and a multidisciplinary approach. It is obvious to consider that one should not consider "age" as the only risk factor, but the condition that this determines to the organism, like the presence of co-morbidities and the consequent poor response to treatment. Cancer occurs frequently in association of one or more other chronic diseases, that affect the efficacy of various treatment interventions. Because of the potential morbidity associated with surgery, the use of mini-invasive techniques have expanded considerably. Aging should not be viewed as a difficulty to definitive therapeutic option. For these reason, it should be correct to value the physiologic capabilities of each organ system and all co-morbidities in the elderly, in order to face possible risks of treatment or improbable benefits. This review takes a look to the tumor biology and to the morbidity of cancer treatment in elderly patients affected by genito-urological cancer like prostate, bladder and renal cancer. 
Diabetes mellitus increases the risk of bladder cancer: an updated meta-analysis of observational studies.	Increasing evidence suggests that diabetes mellitus (DM) may be associated with an increased risk of bladder cancer. We performed an updated meta-analysis to examine the association between DM and risk of bladder cancer.
Late recurrence after radical cystectomy: patterns, risk factors and outcomes.	We evaluated the outcome in patients with late recurrence of urothelial carcinoma after radical cystectomy.
Clinical-pathologic stage discrepancy in bladder cancer patients treated with radical cystectomy: results from the national cancer data base.	To examine the accuracy of clinical staging and its effects on outcome in bladder cancer (BC) patients treated with radical cystectomy (RC), using a large national database.
Cancer incidence among Danish stone workers.	The lung cancer incidence of 2071 Danish stone workers was followed for a 42-year period. The expected numbers of cancer cases were based on the incidence rates for all Danish men after adjustment for region, and the data were analyzed separately for skilled and unskilled stone workers. The standardized incidence ratio (SIR) for lung cancer was 200 (44 observed, 22.0 expected) for all skilled stone workers, 808 (7 observed, 0.9 expected) for skilled sandstone cutters in Copenhagen, 119 (8 observed, 6.5 expected) for skilled granite cutters in Bornholm, 181 (24 observed, 13.2 expected) for all unskilled stone workers, 246 (17 observed, 6.9 expected) for unskilled workers in the road and building material industry, and 111 (7 observed, 6.3 expected) for unskilled workers in the stonecutting industry. Smoking was unlikely alone to explain the excess risk, and the available data on levels of exposure in the Danish stone industry point to a possible dose-response relationship between exposure to respirable silica dust and the incidence of lung cancer.
Occupational risks of bladder cancer in the United States: I. White men.	We examined the relationship between occupation and bladder cancer risk using data obtained from interviews conducted with 2,100 white males with bladder cancer and 3,874 population controls during the National Bladder Cancer Study, a population-based, case-control study conducted in 10 areas of the United States. The strongest evidence of increased risk among white men was observed for painters, truck drivers, and drill press operatives. For painters, the overall relative risk was 1.5 [95% confidence intervals (CI) = 1.2-2.0]. Among painters who started working prior to 1930, a significant trend in risk with increasing duration of employment as a painter was apparent; the relative risk for such painters employed 10 or more years was 3.0. For truck drivers and drill press operatives, overall risks were 1.3 (CI = 1.1-1.4) and 1.4 (CI = 0.9-2.1), respectively. We observed a significant, positive trend in risk with increasing duration of employment in each of these occupations, with relative risks peaking at approximately two for long-term workers. Excess risks were also observed for workers in several other occupations. In all, we estimate that 21%-25% of bladder cancer diagnosed among white men in the United States is attributable to occupational exposures.
Occupational risks of bladder cancer in the United States: II Nonwhite men.	Occupational risks of bladder cancer among nonwhite men were assessed based on interviews with 126 cases and 383 controls conducted during the National Bladder Cancer Study, a population-based, case-control study conducted in 10 areas of the United States. Our findings indicated that nonwhite men who were ever employed as auto workers have an elevated risk of bladder cancer [relative risk (RR) = 2.3; 95% confidence intervals (CI) = 0.8-6.4] with a significant positive trend in RR with increasing duration of employment (P = .017) and with the RR rising to 4.7 for those employed at least 10 years. Dry cleaners, ironers, and pressers also experienced increased bladder cancer risk (RR = 2.8, CI = 1.1-7.4). Nonsignificant excesses of similar magnitude to those seen among white men were found for nonwhite men employed in several other occupations. Overall, our findings suggest that the risk of occupational bladder cancer among white and nonwhite men is similar. When inconsistencies between whites and nonwhites did occur, they appeared either due to chance or possibly racial differences in exposure among men within the same industry and occupation. In all, we estimate that the population attribute risk for occupation among nonwhite U.S. men is 27% (CI = 9% to 56%), which is slightly higher than the estimate of 21% to 25% previously reported for white U.S. men, although this difference was not statistically significant.
Epithelial lesions of the urinary bladder in three hundred and thirteen autopsy cases.	Urinary bladders that appeared normal macroscopically were obtained from 313 autopsy cases of both sexes and examined microscopically. Proliferative lesions such as Brunn's nests and cystitis glandularis were frequent in cases of all ages and both sexes. Metaplastic lesions such as columnar or cuboidal metaplasia and squamous metaplasia were less frequent. These two types of lesions were not related to age, but squamous metaplasia was more common in females than in males. The sites of predilection for these 4 types of lesions were the trigone and anterior wall. Hyperplasia was observed in 16.3% of the male and 10.6% of the female cases, and dysplasia in 6.8% of the male and 5.7% of the female cases. Both types of lesions were more frequent in older than younger cases. Neither type of lesions was related to chronic inflammation. One case of carcinoma in situ was found in a male. These data and mapping of the bladders indicated that none of these benign proliferative and metaplastic lesions were related with the development of dysplasia or carcinoma in situ.
Fluid intake and bladder cancer in Utah.	A population-based, incident case-control study was conducted in Utah to assess the relationship between fluid intake and bladder cancer. Cancer cases (n = 419) were identified through the Utah Cancer Registry, and controls (n = 889) were obtained through random digit dialing and the Health Care Financing Administration. After adjustment for cigarette smoking, age, sex, history of diabetes, and history of bladder infections using multiple logistic regression analysis, total fluid intake was not found to be related to bladder cancer development. Specific fluids related to bladder cancer risk were milk intake (OR = 0.64) and caffeinated coffee intake (OR = 1.60). A linear trend for a dose-response protective effect was observed for milk, while coffee increased risk only when 40 or more cups were consumed per week. Alcohol increased risk only when consumed at high levels (over 3.64 ounces or 103 g per week) by people who never smoked cigarettes (OR = 2.37). Likewise, tea consumption in non-cigarette smokers increased bladder cancer risk (OR = 2.25). Results from this study suggest that types of fluids consumed may play a role in the development of bladder cancer. Furthermore, it is hypothesized that the dietary components of these beverages may be related to the development of bladder cancer.
Comparison of occupational interview data to death certificate data in Utah.	Lifelong occupational histories obtained by interview prior to death were compared to death certificate data for 87 male bladder cancer patients in Utah. Agreement was defined as identical Bureau of Census codes, after predetermined groupings were made. Usual occupation, defined as that with the longest duration, agreed with the death certificate occupation for 54% of the individuals; usual industry agreed for 72%. Most recent occupation and industry agreed for 47% and 53%, respectively. For 69%, at least one interview occupation agreed with the death certificate occupation, and at least one industry agreed for 84%. Variables affecting agreement were duration of the job and education. Also examined were interview data about employment either during the last 15 years or prior to age 65 years, obtained from 112 male colon cancer patients. The Bureau of Census codes were in agreement for occupation in 63% and for industry in 65%. Duration of the job and education were related to percent agreement. We conclude that occupations and industries listed on death certificates reflect at least part of the work history of the majority of individuals.
Occupational risks for bladder cancer among men in Sweden.	With the use of the Swedish Cancer-Environment Registry, census data on employment in 1960 were linked with registry data on bladder cancer during 1961-79. This hypothesis-generating study revealed for the first time associations between bladder cancer and employment in pulp and fiberboard manufacturing, in rope and twine making, and work as a dental technician. Statistically significant increases in risk were also found for several occupations previously associated with bladder cancer, including barbers and beauticians, artistic painters, toolmakers and machinists, and physicians, and employment in butcher shops, industrial chemical making, apparel manufacturing, and plumbing. Etiologic inferences cannot be made from this investigation, but the findings from this large national resource provide further clues to the occupational determinants of bladder cancer.
Life-style and occupational risk factors in cancer of the lower urinary tract.	In a matched case-control study of cancer of the lower urinary tract in northern Germany in which 340 male and 91 female case-control pairs were interviewed between 1977 and 1982, cigarette smokers were found to have an odds ratio of 2.3 for males and 2.9 for females compared with nonsmokers. A significant dose-response relation was observed for increasing cigarette consumption, and a significant decrease in risk was shown for ex-smokers. Employment in rubber, plastics, dye, textiles, and mining industries was associated with a higher risk, and increased odds ratios were also observed for exposure to spray painting, coal pitch, chromium, and zinc. Controlling for smoking, an elevated risk of 2.3 for drinking more than four cups of coffee per day and significant odds ratios of 2.1 and 2.8 for a daily consumption of 0.5-1.0 liter and above 1.0 liter of beer, respectively, were noted among men. A highly significant odds ratio of 4.0 was found for a daily fluid intake of more than 2 liters. Dietary habits such as the frequent consumption of canned food and fatty meals were associated with a higher risk, whereas a regular consumption of fruits and vegetables was associated with a lower risk. Fourteen determinants found to be important in this case-control series were analyzed by using multiple logistic regression.
Leiomyoma of the bladder.	We report 5 cases of leiomyoma of the bladder and review the literature. Because of its size and location, this tumor usually is asymptomatic unless urinary tract function is affected. Excretory urography and computerized tomography were useful in identifying the location, consistency and size of the lesions. Small lesions can be managed with transurethral resection and large lesions require segmental resection. Cystectomy is not indicated.
Bladder cancer: smoking, beverages and artificial sweeteners.	A matched patient-control study of bladder cancer examined the relationship of the disease to occupation, smoking and intake of tea, coffee, cola, alcohol and artificial sweeteners.There was no association of disease with occupation for these patients. Heavy smoking gave relative risks of 6.37 and 4.36 for men and women respectively; there was evidence of a dose-response relationship. Tea and coffee intake did not increase the risk of disease nor did prolonged use of artificial sweeteners. Alcohol and cola intake increased the relative risk of bladder cancer among male smokers. There is some suggestion that smoking interacts with both alcohol and cola intake in the production of bladder cancer.
Risk of cancer after herpes zoster: a population-based study.	Herpes zoster has been associated with immune suppression, as has an increased risk of cancer. To determine whether patients with herpes zoster are at increased risk for subsequent cancer, we followed 590 residents of Rochester, Minnesota, for 9389 person-years after the diagnosis of herpes zoster. Subsequent relative cancer risks, overall and by specific site, were determined for the entire cohort and selected subgroups. In addition, relative risks of cancer during various intervals after the diagnosis of herpes zoster were determined. The overall relative risk was 1.1 (95 per cent confidence interval, 0.9 to 1.3). Relative risks of specific cancer sites were not different from unity except for those for colon and bladder tumors in women, both of which were slightly elevated. Patients with disseminated, recurrent, or gangrenous zoster, with postherpetic neuralgia, and with ophthalmic zoster wee not at elevated risk for subsequent cancer. These findings do not support the investigation of patients for occult cancer at the time of diagnosis of herpes zoster or enhanced surveillance for cancer after such a diagnosis.
Cancer among blacks in Newark, New Jersey, 1970-1976: a national and international comparison.	Newark black men had age-adjusted cancer rates comparable to those of Washington, D. C., but lower than the other three American city blacks. Rates for Newark black women were generally similar to other American black women. American blacks, like those of Newark, had cancer rates higher than the African blacks in three out of four countries studied. Only blacks of Rhodesia had cancer experience like that of American blacks. Except for cancer of the cervix, the African blacks had generally lower rates compared to the American blacks for the ten sites investigated. However, high rates did occur for certain sites, e.g., esophagus and bladder cancers in Bulawayo, Rhodesia. Newark blacks also had higher rates for certain sites (prostate, lung, breast and cervix) compared to Washington, D. C., and certain other U. S. cities. Thus, the total risk of malignancies to develop among Newark blacks was no greater than that expected, based upon the four U. S. cities' experience.
Effects of dose and time in a long-term, low-dose carcinogenic study.	Large numbers of female BALB/c StCrlfC3Hf/Nctr mice were exposed for up to 33 months to low doses of 2-acetylaminofluorene (2-AAF) under controlled conditions. The study design consisted of sacrifice intervals, life span, and discontinued dosing groups. Two separate and distinct endpoints, that is urinary bladder neoplasms and liver neoplasms, resulted in 2 different types of dose response relationships. Although bladder neoplasms exhibited a minimum effect level (or a nonlinear response) for specific conditions, the total results were consistent with a "no threshold concept." The late appearing liver neoplasms displayed a nearly linear type response that extrapolated directly to zero dose. Time of exposure was shown to be an important factor in that, as animals were sacrificed at 18, 24, and 33 months, a positive response was noted at the next lower dose as time was extended. Discontinuing dosing and sacrificing at 18 and 24 months also demonstrated the effects of exposure to the carcinogen 2-AAF. Induction of bladder neoplasms was shown to occur early in the study, but was dependent upon the continuous presence of 2-AAF. The liver neoplasms appeared very late in the study but were shown to be induced at a very early point in the exposures and did not require the continuous presence of the carcinogen in order to develop. A standard 18 month bioassay study, if conducted under the same conditions, would have classified this chemical as a weak acting carcinogen. These studies demonstrate the importance of the time factor in safety evaluation or risk assessment in carcinogenesis.
Bladder and kidney cancers.	The major factor contributing to the increase in incidence of both renal and urothelial cancers has been improved detection rates. To a considerable extent, this accounts for the difference between the trends in incidence and mortality since, on the whole, the efficacy of treatment has improved only slowly. In the case of renal parenchymal cancer, the true burden of disease is rising almost everywhere, probably reflecting changes in standard of living, perhaps chiefly diet, although there will be some contribution from smoking. Where the increase in bladder cancer is not artefactual, it can be attributed in large part to smoking and perhaps to increasing industrial exposure in some localities. Trends in incidence and, to a greater degree, mortality for urothelial cancer are likely to improve substantially with implementation of policies of prevention (reduction in smoking, improvements in industrial hygiene), earlier detection (eg with monoclonal antibodies) and treatment (immunotherapy). No such optimism can be held with respect to renal parenchymal cancer, which is set to become one of the major cancers of affluent societies unless its aetiology becomes known and can be addressed.
Coffee, cigarette smoking, and bladder cancer in western New York.	The association between consumption of coffee and bladder cancer and the effect modification of cigarette smoking was investigated as part of a comprehensive case-control study. The study population consisted of 351 case patients with histologically confirmed transitional cell carcinomas of the bladder among white males and 855 white male control subjects selected from Erie, Niagara, and Monroe counties in New York from 1979 to 1985. Usual diet, coffee consumption, and cigarette use were estimated by comprehensive interviews using a detailed food frequency questionnaire. After adjustment for age, education, and dietary risk factors by multiple logistic regression, risk was found to increase with increasing pack-years of cigarette use with an odds ratio in the highest quartile of 2.7 (95% confidence interval, 1.8 to 4.0) when compared to the lowest quartile. Coffee consumption was associated with an increased risk for bladder cancer among the heaviest coffee drinkers after adjustment for cigarette smoking and other dietary risk factors (odds ratio, 2.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.3 to 3.2). The effect was more pronounced among nonsmokers, especially among those 65 years and older. These findings support the contention that coffee is a weak carcinogen.
The characteristics of the hormonal status in women with bladder neoplasms]	In a controlled trial a gynecological history has been studied for 154 females with bladder tumors against 213 matched women without the tumor. The risk to develop the tumor was found to rise with the history of a short reproductive period, abortions, primary infertility, cancer of the corpus uteri and of the breast, ovarian cysts. Tryptophan metabolism assessed in 242 and 541 women and men with bladder cancer and free of it, respectively, was indicative of more frequent urinary registration of carcinogenic tryptophan metabolite 3-oxyantranilic acid: for females 40.5 per 100 in case of cancer, 10 per 100 in healthy ones; for males with cancer 33.9, without cancer 7.4 per 100 examinees. Radioimmunoassays of hormone concentrations in the serum with correlation to tryptophan metabolism for 55 cancer and 49 healthy females showed lowered levels of progesterone, folitropin and lutropine to occur more often in cancer women with urinary 3-oxyantranilic acid. The above endogenic factors analyzed retrospectively suggest involvement of hormonal status alterations in bladder cancer onset.
Paraganglia of the urinary bladder. An autopsy study.	This is the first full-scale analysis on the paraganglia of the urinary bladder (PUB) by means of histological examination of a large number of autopsy cases. PUB were demonstrated by routine histology in 51.8% of the cases examined. PUB were present in any portion of the urinary bladder as well as in any layer of its mural structure. Immunohistochemistry revealed strong to moderate positivity for chromogranin A and neuron-specific enolase, respectively. A moderate immunoreactivity for S 100 protein was demonstrated in the sustentacular cells of PUB. There has been a statistically significant male preponderance in the incidence of PUB. Contrary to the general consensus, PUB degenerate very slowly throughout the entire lifetime. Middle-aged and elderly subjects suffering from chronic lung diseases exhibit a statistically significant increase in the incidence of PUB, suggesting chronic hypoxemia as a stimulant for the persistence of PUB.
Associations between bladder cancer risk factors and tumor stage and grade at diagnosis.	Using data on 1,860 bladder cancer cases and 3,934 population-based controls from the National Bladder Cancer Study, we examined associations between suspected bladder cancer risk factors and tumor stage and grade. Employment in a high-risk occupation was associated with the entire clinical spectrum of bladder cancer rather than a particular tumor stage or grade. For example, relative risks (RR) were similar for noninvasive and invasive disease (1.5 and 1.6, respectively). Cigarette smoking also increased risk of the entire clinical spectrum of bladder cancer, but the more advanced the stage, the stronger the effect. For example, relative risks of noninvasive and invasive bladder cancer for current heavy smokers were 3.0 and 5.2, respectively. Cigarette smoking was associated with higher risk of low-grade than high-grade tumors, once stage of disease was taken into account. Compared with whites, nonwhites were at a lower risk of noninvasive bladder cancer (RR = 0.4) but at similar risk of invasive bladder cancer (RR = 1.1), a pattern indicating racial differences in health practices related to bladder cancer detection. History of urinary tract infections and bladder stones was associated with increasing relative risks for advanced tumor stage. Heavy artificial sweetener use was associated with higher-grade, poorly differentiated tumors. Coffee consumption and family history of bladder cancer were not consistently associated with tumor stage or grade. Overall, different clinical presentations of bladder cancer share most suspected bladder cancer risk factors, including employment in a high-risk occupation and cigarette smoking.
Prophylaxis of transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder G1-G2; pTa-pT1 with mitomycin C or interferon alpha-2a. Preliminary data]	No. 54 patients with transitional cell carcinoma G1-2; pTa-pT1, were treated with intravesical therapy with Mitomycin C (MMC) (first group of 27 patients), and Interferon alfa 2a (IFN) (second group of 27 patients), following transurethral resection. The objective of this trial was to compare the prophylactic activity of these two drugs. All patients were evaluated with cystoscopy and urine cytology. Mean follow-up was for the first group of patients (MMC) of 10.4 months, for the second group (IFN) of 12 months. The incidence of recurrence in the first group (MMC) was 11.1% with a recurrence rate of 2.1. In the second group (IFN) the incidence of recurrence was 51.9% with a recurrence rate of 7.4. No case of progression evaluated by grade and stage was observed. The side-effects were more frequent in the MMC group and they were mainly due to chemocystitis. These data suggest that MMC appears to be superior to IFN in intravesical therapy of superficial bladder carcinoma.
Transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder in young adults.	A retrospective survey of young servicemen presenting with transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder aged 40 years or below is presented, 19 such patients having been identified over a 20-year period. The results were compared with those of other similar series. The tumour behaviour appears to vary with age at presentation, its propensity for multifocal presentation, recurrence, progression to invasion and mortality all rising over the first 4 decades of life. These trends appear to be linked to grade and stage at presentation, and also tend to rise with age rather than altered tumour behaviour. The follow-up of young adults should thus be the same as for older patients presenting with the same grade and stage tumours.
Descriptive epidemiology of genitourinary cancers.	The American Cancer Society estimates that, in 1993, genitourinary (GU) cancers will account for about 37% of all new cases of cancer in men and about 4% in women. Approximately 18% of all cancer deaths in men and 3% in women will be from GU cancers. Identifying the differences in the occurrence of testicular, prostate, bladder, and renal cancer by age, race, sex, and geographic distribution and looking at trends over time are necessary for the development of etiologic hypotheses and appropriate health services.
Trends in the incidence of cancer of the kidney, pelvis, ureter and bladder in Denmark 1943-88.	Temporal trends in the incidence of cancer of the renal parenchyma, renal pelvis, ureter, bladder, urethra and Wilm's tumor in the period 1943-88 were described. Log-linear Poisson models were used to estimate the changes over time and the geographical variations. We have found a steep increase in the incidence of pelvis and ureter cancer; and to some extent also for bladder cancer in men. The incidence of cancer of the renal parenchyma has increased more moderately while the rates of Wilm's tumor have been virtually stable throughout the period. These findings suggest that tumors in the urinary system differ with respect to risk factors and should be grouped by their histological origin as well as topographical site.
The reliability of staging and grading of bladder tumours. Impact of misinformation on the pathologist's diagnosis.	The influence of misinformation on the reliability of the histopathological classification of bladder tumours was analysed. Four consultant pathologists assessed 40 biopsy specimens of bladder tumours staging invasion and grading the specimens according to the Bergkvist classification. A random sample of 20 specimens was accompanied by systematically distorted information ("bias"-unknown to the pathologists) about previous histological grading of the patient (bias group); the other 20 specimens were used as control group (non bias group). After 6 months a second round with the same specimens was arranged to assess the influence of bias on the intraobserver variation. Using kappa (kappa) statistics the chance corrected interobserver agreement rate was poor both in staging of invasion and grading according to the Bergkvist classification (kappa < 0.50). The kappa values in the intraobserver study ranged from poor to excellent with a tendency towards lower kappa when the observer had been biased. The kappa values in the assessment of malignancy were acceptable to excellent. False information did not affect the pathologists' diagnosis significantly.
Simultaneous occurrence of carcinosarcoma of the bladder and seminoma of the testis. Case report.	Carcinosarcoma of the bladder is a rare neoplasm composed of both epithelial and mesenchymal components. We report on a 51-year-old man with vesical carcinosarcoma and seminoma of the testis occurring synchronously.
Superficial urinary bladder cancer. Results from the Finnbladder studies and a review on instillation treatments.	At present, about 80% of primary, newly diagnosed urinary bladder cancers are local (NOMO), i.e., potentially curable. Not less than two thirds of all are superficial cancers (TIS, Ta, T1), and thus subjects of conservative, local treatments. Carcinoma in situ (TIS/CIS) has three clinical manifestations: 1) primary TIS is found without a previous history of bladder cancer, 2) secondary TIS is found during the follow-up of an earlier cancer, and 3) concomitant TIS is found simultaneously with a papillary tumour. Otherwise, there are controversial diagnostic and therapeutic attitudes on TIS. Concerning the primary diagnosis and grading, the reliance on cytological possibilities varies in separate centres. "Wait-and-see policy" might be justified in mild dysplasia Grade 1, whereas both the TIS Grade 2, and TIS Grade 3, are real malignancies which need a more effective treatment than transurethral resection (TUR) alone. Under a close control, intravesical chemo- and immunotherapy with doxorubicin (ADM), mitomycin C (MMC) and bacillus Calmette-Guérin (BCG) offer an alternative to cystectomy. However, it remains to be seen in the future whether combined or alternating instillations will give a still better return. By contrast, the principal treatment of visible superficial (Ta and T1) cancer is TUR, which can be easily repeated. Most recommended strategy for Grade 3 T1 cancer seems to be the same. Anyhow, the high frequency of recurring tumours and the tendency to simultaneous progression in specific categories of Ta-T1 cancer have led to adjuvant prophylactic instillation treatments. Currently, both local cytostatics (ADM and MMC in the present series), and immunoagents (BCG) have been proven safe.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hemi-Kock reconstruction following cystectomy: experience and results from a small urological unit.	Between December 1988 and January 1992, 11 men underwent lower urinary tract reconstruction by means of the hemi-Kock ileal reservoir following radical cystoprostatectomy (ten patients) and subtotal cystectomy (one patient). Six of the 11 patients developed an early postoperative complication, with a fatal outcome in two of them. One patient succumbed to subarachnoidal bleeding and one to septic shock. During the follow-up, another two men died of advanced bladder carcinoma. The late complication rate was low. Most patients regained their continence within six months. A good continence was achieved in all the nine remaining patients during the day and in six of them at night. This experience suggests that the hemi-Kock reservoir is a useful method for the urinary tract reconstruction following cystectomy.
Inverted papilloma of the urinary bladder in a boy.	Inverted papilloma of the urinary bladder is not uncommon in adults. In children, only two cases had been reported to our knowledge. Another pediatric case is described herein, in which the lesion occurred in a 9-year-old boy; he is the youngest patient reported to have this condition.
Tumors of the superior urinary tract and associated bladder tumors: clinical and etiological aspects]	In a series of 107 patients treated over an 11-year period for upper urinary tract tumours (UTT), 30 had a synchronous or metachronous associated bladder tumour. The bladder tumour preceded the UTT in 10.3% of cases, the bladder tumour was synchronous in 6.5% of cases and the bladder tumour occurred after the UTT in 15% of cases, the incidence of UTT after cystectomy over this 11-year period was 3.3%. The median time to recurrence of the UTT after bladder tumour was 17 months. The median time to recurrence of the bladder tumour after the UTT was 12 months. The risk of bladder recurrence after treatment of the upper tract tumour was studied in relation to site, type of treatment, multifocal nature, stage and grade of the UTT and the presence of a previous or synchronous associated bladder tumour. None of these parameters constituted a predictive factor of bladder recurrence after treatment of an upper tract tumour. Comparison of survival between the UTT + bladder tumour group and the UTT alone group did not reveal any significant difference (p = 0.10). The theory of cellular implantation facilitated by vesicorenal reflux and the multifocal theory are complementary explanations of the multifocal and recurrent nature of urothelial tumours.
Correlations of incidence rates for selected cancers in the nine areas of the Third National Cancer Survey.	Incidence date from the Third National Cancer Survey were used to study geographic variation in the occurrence of nine common cancers of nonsexual sites and five sexual sites. It was hypothesized that cancers which varied together across the nine survey communities might have common etiologic factors. The variation was measured by a series of rank and product-moment correlation coefficients in order to summarize the association between pairs of cancers in white males and in white females. The most notable findings were the high correlations between the incidence rates for the three gastrointestinal sites (stomach, colon, and rectum) and bladder cancer in both men and women and the high correlation between three female sexual sites (breast, corpus, and ovary). These two clusters are also correlated with one another. A number of other substantial correlations between pairs of cancers were observed and discussed. These associations suggest possible common etiologic agents, despite the fact that the individual secular trends for some of these cancers differ.
Surveillance, initial assessment, and subsequent progress of patients with superficial bladder cancer in a prospective longitudinal study. National Bladder Cancer Collaborative Group A (NBCCGA).	Through a bladder cancer surveillance protocol, a sizable population of patients suitable for characterizing the dynamics and patterns of recurrent superficial transitional cell carcinoma has been identified. One hundred thirty-three patients have been followed after their first occurrence of transitional cell carcinoma (Stage O or A).  Only patients whose tumors were considered to be completely removed by transurethral resection and who were not treated by any other means were included. Although a full year of follow-up is not yet complete, recurrent bladder carcinoma has been noted in 44 (33%). Most of these recurrences were identified at the first follow-up cystoscopy and the majority were present at the site of the initial lesion. Tumor size, grade, and stage did not appear to influence recurrence, whereas multiplicity did. The relevance of these findings to various theories about the mechanism of recurrence is discussed.
Role of radiotherapy in cancer of the bladder in Saguenay-Lac Saint-Jean]	Bladder cancer is more frequent in Quebec, especially in Saguenay-Lac Saint-Jean than in other Canadian provinces and in the USA. From 1983 to 1996, only 78 patients presenting with bladder cancer received external beam radiation therapy. Sixty-eight were treated with curative intent. Overall survival rates were 70% at 3 years, 66% at 5 years, and 40% at 10 years. Retrospective analysis of these cases and literature review show that preoperative radiation therapy is useful in the management of bladder cancer, especially in T3 tumors. It is also useful for patients whose tumor objectively responds to radiation therapy, without an increase in morbidity.
A nested case-control study of bladder cancer incidence in a steel manufacturing plant.	A surveillance study of bladder cancer incidence in northwestern Illinois detected a number of cases who had worked in a large steel manufacturing plant. To investigate these cancers further, a nested case-control study of bladder cancer was conducted at this plant.
Cancer risk in individuals with benign thyroid disorders.	The risk of cancer was examined in a cohort of 57,326 individuals who were discharged from a Danish hospital with a diagnosis of myxedema, thyrotoxicosis, or goiter. Although the general risk of cancer was only slightly increased, the risk of several sites was significantly above expected. The risk of thyroid cancer especially, was increased with standardized incidence ratios among women of 2.1 (myxedema), 2.5 (thyrotoxicosis), and 6.6 (nontoxic goiter). The increase in risk was present even many years after discharge, indicating that surveillance was not the only explanation. Furthermore, an increased risk was noted for cancer of the kidney in women discharged with myxedema (standardized incidence ratios [SIR] = 1.8) and thyrotoxicosis (SIR = 1.3), for cancer of the bladder in women discharged with myxedema (SIR = 1.5) and nontoxic goiter (SIR = 1.3), and for cancer of the hematopoetic system in women discharged with myxedema (SIR = 1.4) and nontoxic goiter (SIR = 1.4). The findings indicate that thyroid disorders may be related to cancer risk of several specific sites other than the thyroid.
Comparative epidemiology of cancers of the testis, lung, bladder and stomach with special reference to the possible implication of environmental hormones in the recent risk changes of the 4 neoplasia types.	The purpose of this study is to extract common features of an environmental hormone-oriented neoplasia by comparatively investigating the epidemiological characteristics of testicular cancer in Denmark with those of other cancers, of which the age-adjusted incidence rates (AAIRs) underwent remarkable increase or decrease in the time range of early 1960's to mid 1980's. Practically, the log-transformed (log) AAIRs and the corresponding log ASIRs (age-specific incidence rates) were used in parallel to investigate the dynamic aspect of cancer risk changes in time and space. The present study includes cancers of the testis, lung, bladder and stomach as study subjects, and followed the chronological transition of cancer risk for each tumor type and for each population unit from early 1960's to mid 1980's. In space, the present study includes the data for 6 population units as follows: Denmark, Birmingham-England, the State of New York less New York city, Miyagi-Japan, Puerto Rico and Cali-Colombia. Since 3 neoplasias other than testicular cancer were associated with male predominance of cancer risk, 1st order regression analysis was applied to a set of 5 chronologically consecutive data of log AAIRs for a given tumor to comparatively investigate the sex discrimination of cancer risk for each of 3 neoplasia types. Results obtained are as follows: a) the ASIR profile of testicular cancer in Denmark (a high-risk country) was a composite of an adult type surge and an infant type surge (a product of in utero carcinogenic insult). Consistent ascension of both the adult type surge and the infant type surge of the ASIR profile was observed in parallel with the straight line increase of log AAIR of testicular cancer in Denmark. b) The ASIR profiles of testicular cancer for Miyagi-Japan (a low-risk country with steady increase of log AAIR) experienced new emergence of the infant type surge that was detectable in the profile for the years 1968-1971 and 1983-1987, but not in the profile for the years 1959-1960. c) The ASIR profiles of testicular cancer for Cali-Colombia (a low-risk country with no sign of risk increase) was free of the infant type surge throughout the study period. d) Temporary emergence of the infant type surge was experienced in cancers of the lung and bladder in early 1970's. In space, the infant type surge had preference of occurrence for a high-risk country to a low-risk country, and for a male population to a female population. e) Another feature of environmental hormone-oriented tumor was found in the recent risk decrease of gastric cancer of which the rate of risk decrease was distinct in Western countries and Japan, but not in Cali-Colombia. Puerto Rico was ranked as an in-between existence--a violation to the rules of Westernization effect for cancer risk. f) The relation between the male log AAIR and the male log AAIR less female log AAIR for a given tumor type was found to have a good fitness to the equilibrium model of which the members are destined to interact with each other under the law of mass action. The above mathematical strictness was found to be valid with all of cancers of the liver, skin, lung, bladder, stomach and esophagus--a finding to indicate that the relation between the changes of male cancer risk and that of female cancer risk in time and space is defined by the law of mass action regardless of the presence or absence of environmental hormone impact, and that no marker is available to detect possible implication of the environmental hormones with this system. g) The significance of the last finding in cancer etiology was discussed in the light of the steroid criminal hypothesis of human carcinogenesis in general. In conclusion, the recent risk changes of cancers of all the testis, lung, bladder and stomach in high-risk areas are in part to be explained in terms of the environmental hormone impact.
