Lower urinary tract injury during the Burch procedure: is there a role for routine cystoscopy?	This study was undertaken to evaluate the use of intraoperative cystoscopy for the detection of incidental bladder or ureteral injuries during abdominal urethropexy procedures and to determine whether the incidence of injuries warrants the routine use of cystoscopy.
Long-term outcomes of conservatively treated paediatric pelvic fractures.	The long-term orthopaedic, urologic, and psychiatric outcomes of patients treated non-operatively for unstable pelvic fractures were assessed. There were 55 males and 3 females with an average age of 7 (3-13). Eighty-one percent of the fractures were caused by motor vehicle accidents, and 68% by auto-pedestrian accidents. Thirty-four of the 58 fractures were type Tile type B and 24 were type C. Posterior urethral injury was determined in 41 patients, and head injury in 21. Three patients with type C injury died within the first 3 days. After an average follow-up period of 7.4 years of the patients with type B injuries, leg length discrepancy of 1cm was determined in two, and limited motion associated with open-knee wound in one, and low back pain in two. Of the patients with type C injuries, low back pain was found in four, gait abnormality in three, sacroiliac ankylosis in one, and symphyseal ossification in two. Urethral stricture was determined in 11 patients, urinary incontinence in 6 and erectile dysfunction in 6. A total of 31 patients were diagnosed with 41 psychiatric illnesses, including dysthymic disorder, social phobia, post-traumatic stress disorder, and major depression. No difference was found in the treatment outcomes of the two groups. From a holistic standpoint, long hospital stays and urologic complications are associated with serious psychological problems, and thus should be considered during selection of treatment modality.
Disability and litigation from urinary tract injuries at benign gynecologic surgery in Canada.	To estimate the prevalence of urinary tract injury and the relative risk of litigation from an injury for benign gynecologic surgery in Canada and to analyze a subset of cases of litigation, determining independent risk factors that predicted medical and legal outcomes.
Urologic complications of sexual trauma among male survivors of torture.	To describe the urologic and sexual complications of male survivors of sexual torture, including prevalence, sequelae, diagnosis, and treatment.
Ultrasound detection of blunt urological trauma: a 6-year study.	The objective of this study was to assess the utility of emergency ultrasonography in the detection of blunt urological injury. A retrospective review was conducted of all consecutive emergency blunt trauma ultrasonograms (US) obtained at a level I trauma centre from January 1995 to January 2001. Among the 4320 emergency ultrasonograms performed, 596 patients (14%) had intraabdominal injury and, of these, 99 patients (17%) had urological injuries. The sensitivity of ultrasound for all urological injuries was 67%, and specificity was 99.8%. For isolated urological injuries, sensitivity and specificity were 55.6 and 99.8%, respectively. Ultrasound was most accurate in the detection of grade III renal injuries, identifying 14/15 (93%), and 13 underwent laparotomy. For isolated urological injuries, 15 of 25 (60%) patients with a true-positive US underwent laparotomy compared to 3 of 20 (15%) with a false-negative US. Isolated urological injury was significantly associated with an ultrasonographic pattern of free fluid in the left upper quadrant and the left pericolic gutter (odds ratio=55.1; P<0.001), followed by isolated fluid in the left pericolic gutter (odds ratio=8.6; P=0.04). Although emergency ultrasonography is useful in the triage of patients with blunt urological trauma, it may miss significant urological injury requiring further intervention. As most renal injuries may be managed non-operatively, further studies such as contrast-enhanced CT or angiography should be obtained in the stable patient with suspected blunt urological injury.
Serum biochemical abnormalities in goats with uroliths: 107 cases (1992-2003).	To characterize serum biochemical abnormalities in goats with uroliths.
Surgery strategies for management of gunshot wounds to urogenital system]	The gunshots injuries of the spleen are relative uncommon by comparison with others abdominal trauma. The rate is 1 to 3% of all injuries to the abdomen. This review presents the most widespread classifications of spleen trauma, current diagnostic--physical examination, sonography, CT, DPL, laparoscopy. The surgical treatment is discussed in the following trends--nonoperative and operative approach depending on patient's condition. The nonoperative treatment is applied to hemodynamically stable patients with established superficial lesions and ceased hemorrhage. In the other cases the operative approach is indicated. The splenectomy is the method of choice and in defined situations spleen tissue autotransplantation is applicable. Other procedures are outlined: spleen preserving resections, splenorrhaphy, mesh repair, ligation of sanguinating vessels, omentoplastic, hemostatic glue or mesh, argon plasma electrocoagulation. Most reported complications following spleen trauma are hemorrhage, infections, thrombocytosis, partial necrosis of stomach, pancreatitis, postsplenectomy sepsis. The mortality varies between 5 and 65%.
Percutaneous radiofrequency ablation of renal tumors in solitary kidney patients.	In solitary kidney patients with renal cell carcinoma (RCC), radiofrequency ablation (RFA) could be effective in achieving complete tumor necrosis without increasing the risk of complications or renal failure. To analyze the outcomes of a group of solitary kidney patients treated for RCC by RFA considering tumor size and location, renal function involvement and complications.
Urinary tract trauma: anatomo-lesional, etiological and clinical considerations]	Urinary tract injuries are rare lesions and account for about 3%, of all injuries and 10% of abdominal trauma injuries. The aim of this study is to review retrospectively a series of patients with urinary tract injuries treated in a general surgery clinic.
Management of pelvic trauma: neurological damage, urinary tract disruption and pelvic fractures.	Cats commonly present with pelvic trauma following road traffic accidents (RTAs). A logical step-wise approach to diagnostics and subsequent management can significantly improve the prognosis in the majority of cases. This article provides a practical guide to assist decision-making and optimise management of these cats.
A profile of abdominal and pelvic injuries in medico-legal autopsy.	Abdomino-pelvic region is vulnerable to injury in various forms of trauma. This study was undertaken with objectives to study the pattern and type of external and internal abdominal and pelvic injuries and to identify the risk organs in abdomen and pelvis susceptible to trauma among the medico-legal autopsies at the mortuary of a referral centre in eastern Nepal during the period of one year (n = 80). Males constituted 80% of the cases and the mean age of the victims was 30.76 years. The cause of trauma was Road Traffic Accident in 82.5%. The manner of death was accidental in 87.5% and homicidal in 11.25% cases. Liver (57.5%) was the most common organ injured followed by spleen in 37.5% cases. Multiple organs injury was seen in 67.5% and absence of any external injuries was noted in 31.25% cases. Autopsy can play a role in establishing the missed injuries and be helpful to widen the knowledge of the medical faculty in early diagnosis and management of such injuries.
Emergency management of urologic trauma.	Emergency management of urologic trauma can be expeditiously transected by reliance upon radiographic information and awareness of emergency priorities. Attention can be confidently focused on the area of maximal injury (upper versus lower urinary tract), and definitive or temporizing measures instituted according to circumstances. Although specialty management is ultimately required, diagnostic and therapeutic efforts initiated by emergency personnel are important to efficient appraisal and disposition.
Urinary tract trauma.	Trauma to the canine urinary tract is a common occurrence secondary to motor vehicle accidents. Radiology is an important diagnostic technique for determining the extent of traumatic injuries. The anatomic location of the urinary system in close association with the ribs, pelvis, epaxial muscles and spine may be an advantage because of the protection offered by these structures and a disadvantage because of increased injury when these structures are damaged. Trauma to the kidneys may be managed by complete nephrectomy, partial nephrectomy, renal capsule repair and temporary nephrostomy. Trauma to the ureters may be managed by ureteral anastomosis, ureteral splinting, ureterovesicular anastomosis, nephrotomy and ureteronephrectomy. Bladder trauma is managed with cystotomy, indwelling catheter, antepubic drainage and intestinal pouch attachment. Techniques for repair of the urethra include indwelling catheterization, urethral anastomosis, and urethrostomy at a new site. The post-operative complications most frequently encountered include uremia, wound dehiscence, stricture and infection. These complications can be avoided by restoration of anatomic continuity of the injured organ, internal splinting and catheterization, urinary diversion, and peri-operative drainage.
A study of 114 cases of urinary tract injury]	In 11 years between January, 1974 and December, 1984 114 patients (92 males and 22 females) were admitted to our departments for urologic injuries. As there were four patients with multiple injuries (both kidneys 1, kidney and ureter 1, kidney and urethra 1, and bladder and urethra 1), the number of cases with kidney, ureter, bladder and urethral injuries were 76 (64%), 33 (28%), 6 (5%) and 3 (3%), respectively. The most frequent incidence was in the second decade. Out of the 75 cases of renal injuries there were 42 cases (56%) of contusions, 21 (28%) of lacerations, 7 (9.3%) of ruptures and 5 (6.7%) of pedicle injuries. Only 14 cases (18.7%) were treated surgically, namely six by nephrectomy and eight by a conservative approach (suture 1, drainage 3, partial nephrectomy 3 and pyeloplasty 1). Of the 3 cases of ureteral injuries all cases were treated surgically. Of the 6 cases of bladder injuries four cases were treated surgically. Of the 33 cases of urethral injuries 10 cases were complicated by fractures of the pelvis. Twenty three cases (74%) were treated surgically.
Use of intravenous pyelography in blunt trauma--a reappraisal.	The role of intravenous pyelography (IVP) in the evaluation of blunt abdominal trauma is controversial. Major renal injuries have occasionally been reported in the absence of hematuria, but the test is not always accurate, is expensive and has potential morbidity. By reviewing the charts of 150 consecutive patients seen in an emergency department who had IVP for blunt abdominal trauma, we evaluated the ability of clinical and laboratory findings to predict IVP findings, the incidence of abnormal findings on IVP and the number of times IVP affected patient management. Only one patient's management was found to be clearly affected by the results of the IVP. We feel, therefore, that IVP should be reserved in cases of blunt abdominal trauma for patients with gross hematuria and those with microscopic hematuria and suggestive clinical findings. The absence of hematuria should preclude the use of IVP unless there are other exceedingly strong clinical findings.
Winter sports-related urologic trauma.	There is no characteristic pattern of ski-related urologic injuries except those associated with major blunt abdominal trauma. Isolated urologic injuries and injuries of the lower urinary tract are relatively uncommon.
The diagnostic and treatment characteristics of gunshot wounds to the organs of the urinary system in modern wars]	The frequency of injuries of the urinary system which are very severe is as high as 4% of all the wounds of other localizations. The high frequency of associated injuries, critical states of the wounded give very short time for urological examinations which prevents making the exact diagnosis. Nephrectomy still remains the most common operative intervention for wounds of the kidneys (62.8%). The insufficient elimination of urine and inadequate drainage in wounds of the urinary bladder and urethra are followed by very severe complications. An analysis of the experience with treatment of wounds of the urinary system has shown that the medical evacuatory measures must be improved.
Missed urological injuries in children with polytrauma.	Fifteen children (11 boys and 4 girls) with severe injuries of the urinary tract were admitted to the Riyadh Central Hospital between 1990 and 1992. Their ages ranged from 2.5 to 12 years (mean 7.3 years), and their injuries were parts of multiple-organ trauma. Following resuscitation, every child was evaluated and staged by either intravenous urography, CT scan or ultrasonography or a combination of these. Commonly associated injuries were to the skeleton, spleen and liver. Two patients with ureteropelvic junction injuries and two girls with traumatic urethropaginal fistulas were not diagnosed. The delay in diagnosis contributed to an increase in morbidity. Despite modern radiological imaging, some severe injuries of the urinary tract can still be missed. Heightened awareness and thorough clinical examination are mandatory for early diagnosis of such injuries in children with multiple injuries.
Fragmentation of urinary calculi using the Lithoclast EMS. Technique and results]	The Lithoclast is an endoscopic lithotriptor which uses the ballistic energy produced by a small hand-held apparatus, by the movement of a small metal part (the projectile) driven by a jet of compressed air. The energy is transmitted to a metal rod whose diameter is selected according to the application: 0.8 or 1 mm in the ureter; 2 mm in the bladder and kidney. We have used this apparatus to treat 40 stones in 39 patients (25 ureteric stones, 11 renal stones, 4 bladder stones). Satisfactory fragmentation was obtained for 39 of the 40 stones (97.5%). The apparatus is very easy to use in the kidney and bladder (the risk of urinary tract perforation is very low at this level). The risk of perforation of the ureteric wall by 0.8 mm or 1 mm rods is considerable (12% of cases), but these punctate lesions heal rapidly over a double J stent. Special techniques should be used in the ureter to limit the risk of pushing the stone towards the renal pelvis.
Treatise on aeromedical evacuation: II. Some surgical considerations.	Preventive medicine is the primary responsibility of every physician. When prevention fails and therapeutic measures are required, the initial approach tends to be along a conservative line. When this approach fails, surgical intervention becomes a necessity. Surgical patients, both pre- and post-surgical, may be moved by aircraft providing that one is aware of the hazards in a hostile atmosphere in which pressure and temperature change with increasing altitude. Air or gas trapped in the body cavities expands in direct proportion to the decrease in pressure. This increased volume becomes significant at 5500 m, where the volume of air or gas in the body is doubled. Quite apart form intense discomfort and actual pain caused in certain types of injury, this expansion of gas at high altitude may constitue a real danger, such as in the probability of rupturing a recently sutured intestine and, in cases of pneumothorax, by disturbance of cardiopulmonary dynamics. Thus, aeromedical evacuation of the surgical patient becomes a challenge to those responsible for the medical care between the originating and destination hospitals.
Healing responses of the lower urinary tract.	Healing of the urinary tract follows a series of events similar to other epithelial surfaces. This process, however, occurs more rapidly in the urinary tract. A variety of factors that can affect the healing response of the urinary tract are presented in this article. It is important for the veterinarian to be aware of these factors so that the appropriate surgical or medical treatment can be provided to the patient to optimize the healing processes.
Urologic complications of gynecologic surgery and their treatment in our clinical data]	In 19 women (aged 27-66 years, mean 44.6 years) a retrospective analysis of the urological complications suffered during gynecological surgery was performed. 14 (73.6%) patients had ureteral injuries with concomitant bladder lesions in two. In the remaining 4 (21%) bladder injury only was present including a woman with a simultaneous urethral lesion. In the postoperative period 3 ureteric, 5 vesicovaginal, and one vesicouterine fistula developed. Intraoperative diagnosis followed by immediate surgical repair of the ureteric and bladder lesions was performed in 2 (10.5%) patients only. Except one case ureteral injury was unilateral, and predominantly right-sided (10:5). One patient suffered injury of one of the ureters in a complete ureteral duplication. The most frequent side of ureteral injury was at the level of the uterine artery with complete ligature of the ureter in 10 (71.4%), and partial in 4 (28.6%) patients. Percutaneous nephrostomy as a temporary diversion was performed in 8 (57.1%) patients. Definitive treatment involved simple Paquin ureteral reimplantation in 5 patients, Boari's procedure in 3, and psoas hitch technique once. Ureteral lysis only was sufficient in 3 patients. The surgical treatment including repair of vesical fistulas was in all cases successful.
