Robotic transperitoneal detrusor myotomy: description of a novel technique.	The da Vinci Surgical Robotic System has recently been added to the armamentarium of minimally invasive surgeon and has been shown to be useful to urologists in performing complex operations. We report the first case of detrusor myotomy performed using the da Vinci, describe the novel technique, and review the indications and published outcomes of detrusor myotomy to identify potential applications of this novel technique in patients with neurogenic bladder.
Uterus, fallopian tube, ovary and vagina-sparing laparoscopic cystectomy: technical description and results.	The purpose of our study was to demonstrate, describe, and assess the results of the technique of laparoscopic cystectomy sparing the uterus, fallopian tubes, ovaries, and vagina.
Bowel dysfunction after transposition of intestinal segments into the urinary tract: 8-year prospective cohort study.	Bowel function may be disturbed after intestinal segments are transposed into the urinary tract to reconstruct or replace the bladder. In 1997 our group was the first to report major bowel dysfunction in a cohort of such patients. Up to 42% of those who were asymptomatic preoperatively described new bowel symptoms postoperatively including explosive diarrhea, nocturnal diarrhea, fecal urgency, fecal incontinence and flatus leakage. We now describe bowel symptoms in this same cohort 8 years later (2005).
Mitrofanoff appendicovesicostomy in children: indication and results]	To present the indications and short-term and long-term results of Mitrofanoff appendicovesicostomy in children.
15 years of continent urinary diversion and enterocystoplasty in children and adolescents: the Würzburg experience.	To assess the long-term results of continent urinary diversion (CUD) and enterocystoplasty (ECP) in children with irreversible lower urinary tract dysfunction (LUTD).
Detrusor hyper-reflexia as a factor in spontaneous perforation of augmentation cystoplasty for neuropathic bladder.	In a series of 30 children undergoing cystoplasty for neuropathic bladder, 14 had a combination of a competent sphincteric mechanism and detrusor hyper-reflexia. All 3 cases of spontaneous perforation of the augmentation occurred within this latter group and it is postulated that excessive intravesical pressure due to high pressure hyper-reflexia was the causal factor. Strategies to reduce the risk of perforation are discussed.
Continent coronary diversion--Mainz Pouch. 3-year personal experience]	Our experiences with the continent urinary diversion and the bladder substitution by means of the Mainz-Pouch technique are reported. We were one of the first Urological Departments in Austria to introduce this technique in late 1987. We present the operative technique, the patient material of 15 patients and their outcome with early and late complications over a follow up period of 16.6 months.
Anastomotic obstruction after stapled enteroanastomosis.	We have recently treated two cases of anastomotic obstruction after side-to-side stapled enteroanastomosis. Complete obstruction of a stapled small-bowel anastomosis has not been reported to our knowledge. The mechanism of the obstruction appears to be the healing together of the cut edges of viable bowel beyond the inverted stapled lines. An alternative method of constructing the functional end-to-end enteroanastomosis that is offered is intended to prevent the occurrence of postoperative anastomotic obstruction.
Augmentation cystoplasty for severe uropathy in children]	We present our experience in seven patients (three boys and four girls) with bladder augmentation. Two patients had a neurogenic bladder, two a "nonneurogenic" neurogenic bladder and three a bladder exstrophy. Between the exstrophy patients, two had a rectocistoplasty and one a colon conduit diversion. The rest of patients (two neurogenic bladders and two "nonneurogenic" neurogenic bladder) had a colon conduit diversion. The intestinal segment used for bladder augmentation were ileocecal sement (two patients), ileon (one patient) and colon sigmoid (four patients). Bladder augmentation were tubularized in four patients and detubularized in three. In the follow-up, five patients have a normal renal function (one transplanted), one patient his function is unchanged and other is waiting for the transplant. Of the seven patients, six are fully continente day and night (two with CI and one with anticholinergic drugs) and one has a diurnal continence no more than two hours.
In situ reversed ileocystoplasty for less invasive augmentation cystoplasty: an experimental study.	To evaluate the application of a reversed intact ileal patch for augmentation cystoplasty in terms of improvements in bladder urodynamics and to eliminate the need for bowel anastomosis in an experimental model.
Augmentation cystoplasty and simultaneous ureteral reimplantation reduce high-grade vesicoureteral reflux in children with neurogenic bladder.	To compare the incidence of residual high-grade vesicoureteral reflux (HVUR) (≥Grade III) in neurogenic bladder patients receiving augmentation cystoplasty alone or with simultaneous ureteral reimplantation. Furthermore, we also tried to find the risk factors of residual VUR and febrile urinary tract infection.
Creation of a continent urinary channel in adults with neurogenic bladder: long-term results with the Monti and Casale (Spiral Monti) procedures.	To describe our technique and long-term results with creation of a continent urinary channel in adults with neurogenic bladder (NGB) using a single piece of bowel.
Comparison of intermittent catheterization and supravesical diversion in children with meningomyelocele.	A comparison in terms of renal preservation as evidenced by urography is made between children with meningomyelocele on intermittent catheterization and children who had undergone diversion. Followup in the former group is only 2 1/2 years but at this time those patients on catheterization are doing as well and probably better than children who had undergone diversion and the quality of life for them is better.
One hundred artificial sphincters.	One hundred patients with urinary incontinence of various aetiologies underwent implantation of an artificial urinary sphincter (AUS). In 40 patients various reconstructive procedures of the lower urinary tract were carried out at the same time. In 93 patients the results were successful and they are continent. Six are incontinent and 4 of these await AUS replacement. One patient has had a urinary diversion with the sphincter still in situ and functioning. The complication rate was 45% (of which 29% were designated "sphincter-related"). Half of these were accounted for by two complications: one was a change in bladder behaviour in patients with neuropathic bladders and the other was stress incontinence as a direct result of implanting low pressure devices. If these two factors and the "sphincter-unrelated" problems are discounted, the complication rate was 13%. The AUS is a satisfactory and successful method of treatment for sphincter weakness incontinence regardless of aetiology and the results suggest no contraindication to implantation at the same time as reconstructive surgery of the lower urinary tract.
Vesicocalicostomy as ultimate solution for recurrent urological complications after cadaveric renal transplantation in a patient with poor bladder function.	We report a case of a neurogenic bladder in which hydronephrosis recurred early after renal transplantation. After 2 unsuccessful attempts at ureteroneovesicostomy of the donor ureter a vesicocalicostomy was performed, since reconstruction with the donor pelvis or ureter was impossible owing to the extended fibrosis and scar formation around the renal hilus and ureter. During the 23 months of followup renal function has been good without serious infectious sequela with a regimen of self-catheterization and no antibiotic maintenance therapy.
Effect of liquid diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate (Lomotil) instillations on dynamics and function of continent cecal urinary reservoirs.	We assessed the impact of twice daily instillations of 10 ml. liquid diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate (Lomotil) on the dynamics and function of continent urinary reservoirs constructed from intact cecum and ascending colon. Six patients were treated for 1 to 3 weeks at 3 to 8 months postoperatively. The treatments reduced the frequency of spontaneous reservoir contractions, as well as the basal and contraction pressures of the reservoirs. The reservoir capacities were increased modestly. These alterations in reservoir dynamics were accompanied by a decrease in the cramping characteristically associated with reservoir distension and increased intervals between reservoir catheterization. Two patients who had incontinence after initially successful operations regained continence during treatment. No systemic side effects were observed, although dilution of the drug may be required to prevent reservoir irritability. Diphenoxylate hydrochloride and atropine sulfate instillations may prevent acute and possibly long-term pressure-related complications of continent urinary reservoirs constructed from intact cecum and ascending colon.
Experiences with bladder reconstruction in children.	The results in 56 children (28 with neurogenic bladder dysfunction) undergoing enterocystoplasty between 1981 and 1985 are presented. Ileal, ileocecal, right colon and sigmoid segments were used in tubular and opened configurations. Our experience leads us to recommend opened ileal segment reconstruction in neurogenic bladder patients and those with weak anal sphincters generally, and open ileocecal or open right colon segments in patients with other etiologies. Continence was achieved in 53 patients, although secondary procedures, particularly at the bladder outlet, were required in 13. When ureteral reimplantation was required we achieved excellent success with normal-sized or mildly dilated ureters regardless of the operative technique used. Initial failures to prevent reflux in the face of marked ureterectasis using the ileocecal valve have been resolved by a modified technique of intussusception and fixation. An over-all favorable experience is reported, which we believe permits us to formulate certain rules that will improve the acceptability and success of bladder reconstruction in general.
Re-evaluation of differential sacral rhizotomy for neurological bladder disease.	The authors describe long-term follow-up results (4 to 6 years) in 13 patients who underwent differential sacral rhizotomy for urgency incontinence. Six patients were originally presented in a preliminary report in 1973. In the last seven patients, a highly selective rhizotomy of sacral fascicles innervating only the urinary bladder was performed. Results in the original six patients appear to be superior to those in patients who underwent a more refined rhizotomy. Possible explanations for this as well as alternative approaches to the treatment of urgency incontinence are briefly discussed.
Experience with the artificial urinary sphincter in children and young adults.	The artificial urinary sphincter (model AS 791-792), American Medical Systems, Minnetonka, Minn.) has been implanted in 41 patients (mean age 13.9 years) who were incontinent in spite of intensive efforts with other modes of management. Neurogenic bladder dysfunction is present in 34 patients. Seven patients have non-neuropathic dysfunction of the bladder neck and urethra (3 with exstrophy/epispadias, 3 incontinent after multiple bladder and urethral procedures, and 1 incontinent after a pelvic fracture). Twenty-two patients have had intestinocystoplasty performed and 11 patients had previous urinary diversion. Mean follow-up for a given device is 23 months (range 6 to 47 months). Of these patients, 80.5% are totally or acceptably dry. Five patients (12.2%) were rated as fair, and three were failures (7.3%). Complications have been significant in that reoperation has been necessary in 16 patients. Indications for patient selection is emphasized.
Reconstruction of afferent and efferent nervous pathways to the urinary bladder in two paraplegic patients.	Based on animal experiments, spinal root anastomoses were performed in two paraplegic patients who had traumatic lesions of the conus medullaris. The aim was to reinnervate the paralyzed urinary bladder. At operation, the functioning T12 nerve roots above the lesion were transected and anastomosed bilaterally to the S2 and S3 ventral and dorsal roots emerging from the injured cord area. About 1 year postoperatively, both patients demonstrated restoration of the micturition reflex as recorded in the cystometrogram. Both patients could feel the urge to void, could initate micturition voluntarily, and could empty their bladders satisfactorily. The patients' relatively good bladder functions were the result of either regeneration of the newly constructed nervous pathways or spontaneously developed reflex bladders in partial upper neuron lesions.
A clinical experience with the Scott genitourinary sphincter in the management of urinary incontinence in the pediatric age group.	We report our experience with 22 Scott genitourinary sphincters implanted in 19 patients during a period of 4 years. Patient selection was rigid. Incontinence must be unremitting and fail to respond to exhaustive efforts at control by pharmacologic manipulation with or without intermittent catheterization. The patient must be able to empty the bladder by Credé's or Valsalva's maneuver, and consider the incontinence intolerable. The artificial sphincter is considered as an alternative to urinary diversion. A second attempt at placement has been done in 3 patients. Removal was required in 32 per cent of the devices. However, 79 per cent of the patients did achieve our goal of continence. Therefore, we have found the artificial sphincter to be a valuable addition to the treatment of pediatric incontinence as an alternative to urinary diversion.
Continent reconstruction of detrusor hyperreflexia by sacral bladder denervation combined with continent vesicostomy.	We describe a two-stage surgical procedure for complex hyperreflexic detrusor dysfunction refractory to conservative therapy. First, ventral and dorsal sacral rhizotomies (S2 to S4/5) are performed to restore vesical storage function and abolish autonomic dysreflexia. Then, after an interval of several weeks to allow for detrusor relaxation, continent vesicostomy is performed for suprapubic clean intermittent catheterization. The procedure is effective both objectively and subjectively, is only moderately invasive, and requires neither sophisticated nor expensive medical equipment.
Usefulness of bladder auto-augmentation in neurogenic bladder: a case report]	A 41-year-old male with myelomenigocele underwent a bladder auto-augmentation and endoscopic collagen injections. He has been performing self intermittent catheterization for 10 years but urinary incontinence remained unchanged. Furthermore, he suffered from recurrent pyelonephritis due to the left vesicoureteral reflux. A preoperative fluoroscopic urodynamic study showed a poorly compliant bladder with the maximal bladder capacity of 200 ml at 60 cmH2O. The left vesicoureteral reflux was observed at 10 cmH2O. The low compliant bladder was treated with the bladder autoaugmentation and the left vesicoureteral reflux was treated with the endoscopic subureteral injection of collagen 5 months after the previous operation. A fluoroscopic urodynamic study 6 months postoperatively showed the increase of the maximal bladder capacity of 300 ml at 18 cmH2O and the reflux disappeared completely. The endoscopic periurethral injections of collagen improved his persisting urinary incontinence. In patient with neurogenic bladder having a lot of clinical problems, bladder auto-augmentation is less invasive and offers many advantages over enterocystoplasy.
A case of sensitive urethra treated by continent vesicostomy using detrusor tube]	A case of sensitive urethra treated with continent vesicostomy is reported. She suffered from atonic bladder due to a previous pelvic surgery and could not continue clean intermittent self-catheterization because of pain and discomfort, or sensitive urethra. Continent vesicostomy using detrusor tube following Mitrofanoff principle was performed. Postoperatively, the daily life activity improved markedly. Mitrofanoff operation is considered to be applicable to the cases with sensitive urethra after sufficient explanation and consent.
Ileal trigonal urinary diversion: 5-year followup evaluation.	We anastomosed the intact, undisturbed vesical trigone to the isolated ileal conduit in 24 patients, most of whom have been followed for 5 years. None of these patients has had any pyelographic evidence of upper tract deterioration. There have been no episodes of pyelonephritis, no hydronephrosis, no renal stones and only 4 of the 46 renal units have demonstrated reflux. These data indicate unsurpassed protection of the upper tracts in those patients with neurogenic bladder dysfunction.
Patient perspective of long-term outcome of augmentation cystoplasty for neurogenic bladder.	Although the urologic outcomes of augmentation cystoplasty for neurogenic bladder dysfunction are well known, additional information about the patient perspective is needed. The aim of this study was to assess patient perspective using a standardized questionnaire.
The transverse ileal tube as second-line modification of the Mitrofanoff principle.	With the advantages of constant availability, minimal loss of bowel, relative simplicity (no mesentery interfering with implantation, high mobility of the tube), minimized risk of stone formation (no use of staples), reliable continence (no leak point) and easy catheterization (longitudinal folds), this straightforward technique is an excellent second choice for the Mitrofanoff conduit. A longer period of follow-up is needed to determine whether it deserves a permanent place in the reconstructive surgeons' repertoire.
Ureterocystoplasty update.	Ureterocystoplasty is a unique method for bladder augmentation that lines the bladder with transitional epithelium and avoids the potential complications associated with enterocystoplasty. Seven patients have undergone ureterocystoplasty with excellent long-term results. All have maintained good bladder compliance and the contralateral kidney has been protected in all cases.
Autoaugmentation demucosalized enterocystoplasty.	Autoaugmentation demucosalized enterocystoplasty has been developed from the combination of the autoaugmentation technique, the use of the stomach and colon for bladder augmentation and the ability of the bowel and stomach to survive the removal of their epithelial lining. The initial combined approach used the stomach as the source of muscle, with the colon subsequently being used as an alternative. The operations have been applied in the laboratory and clinically, giving good results for bladder augmentation with both sources of enteric muscle, more reliably so and with a greater ease of separation of the mucosa when stomach muscle is used. There is hope that further research will improve the outcome of what is a technically challenging procedure.
Surgery for detrusor overactivity.	Intractable detrusor overactivity can result in considerable morbidity and, in the case of neurogenic bladder dysfunction, can put the upper tracts at risk. Once conservative treatments have been exhausted the aim of surgery is to increase functional bladder capacity and decrease the maximal detrusor pressure at this capacity. The mainstay of contemporary therapy has been augmentation cystoplasty; the different techniques and recent literature are reviewed herein. Bladder autoaugmentation is compared and contrasted with augmentation cystoplasty and its role is discussed, as is the less invasive technique of sacral neuromodulation with reference to their role within the range of surgical treatments for detrusor activity.
Modifications of and extended indications for the Pippi Salle procedure.	Total urinary incontinence is a difficult problem faced by the urologist. Several techniques to increase ureteral resistance have been described. The majority of them rely on intermittent catheterization for bladder emptying, especially in neurogenic incontinence. We have developed a new procedure in which a bladder flap is used to create a neourethra. This urethral extension acts as a flap valve to provide continence. Bladder emptying is accomplished by clean intermittent catheterization. Urethral lengthening with an anterior bladder-wall flap was performed in 18 patients aged a mean of 8.9 years who had neurogenic incontinence (14) or exstrophy (4). Patients with previous bladder interventions received a lateralized anterior flap. Bladder augmentation was performed in 14 of the 18 patients [detubularized ileum (11), detubularized colon (3)]. The average follow-up period is currently 29.3 months. Continence was achieved in 13 of the 18 patients (72%). Complications included urethrovesical fistulae, which developed in two patients. Two patients could not perform catheterization due to pain but had no obstruction to passage of catheter (exstrophy). Ureteral lengthening with an anterior bladder-wall flap is a useful alternative for the surgical treatment of urinary incontinence. This technique achieves a good continence rate and presents few problems with catheterization.
