Ultrastructural and cytochemical investigations on the formation of chorion in oocyte of Ascidia malaca.	In the present work are reported investigations on the formation and chemical nature of the chorion of Ascidia malaca oocytes. The ultrastructural observations have shown that both follicle cells and test cells play a key role on chorion formation. At the beginning of vitellogenesis (stage I), chorion is formed by a single fibrogranular layer. During vitellogenesis (stage II), the chorion becomes, at first, bi-layered and successively presents three layers. The outer layer (ofl) is composed of a thin and irregular network of short fibrils. The central layer (cdl) is also made by a fibrillar component which is very compact to form an electron-dense layer. The inner layer (ifl) has a larger size compared to that of outer and central layer and it is composed by a matrix containing little and scattered globular electron-dense granules and several fibrils oriented in all directions. At the end of vitellogenesis beneath the three-layered chorion a large perivitelline space will be formed. In this space are found the test cells. Cytochemical investigations performed at light microscopy (toluidine blue) and electron microscopy (PA-TCH-SP) have shown in Ascidia malaca chorion the presence of substances with a polysaccharidic nature that are probably conjugated as glycoprotein and/or proteoglycans.
Involvement of vasa homolog in germline recruitment from coelomic stem cells in budding tunicates.	We investigated the mechanism by which germline cells are recruited in every asexual reproductive cycle of the budding tunicate Polyandrocarpa misakiensis using a vasa homolog (PmVas) as the germline-specific probe. A presumptive gonad of Polyandrocarpa arose as a loose cell aggregate in the ventral hemocoel of a 1-week-old developing zooid. It developed into a compact clump of cells and then separated into two lobes, each differentiating into the ovary and the testis. The ovarian tube that was formed at the bottom of the ovary embedded the oogonia and juvenile oocytes, forming the germinal epithelium. PmVas was expressed strongly by loose cell aggregates, compact clumps, and peripheral germ cells in the testis and germinal epithelium. No signals were detected in growing buds and less than 1-week-old zooids, indicating that germ cells arise de novo in developing zooids of P. misakiensis. Cells of the loose cell aggregates were 5-6 mum in diameter. They looked like undifferentiated hemoblasts in the hemocoel. To examine the involvement of PmVas in the germline recruitment at postembryonic stages, both growing buds and 1-week-old developing zooids were soaked with double-stranded PmVas RNA. The growing buds developed into fertile zooids expressing PmVas, whereas the 1-week-old zooids developed into sterile zooids that did not express PmVas. In controls (1-week-old zooids) soaked with double-stranded lacZ RNA, the gonad developed normally. These results strongly suggest that in P. misakiensis, PmVas plays a decisive role in switching from coelomic stem cells to germ cells.
Surface potential reflected in both gating and permeation mechanisms of sodium and calcium channels of the tunicate egg cell membrane.	1. Threshold changes of Na and Ca currents due to various polyvalent cations (stabilizing cations) or H(+) ions were studied in the egg cell membrane of a tunicate, Halocynthia roretzi, by using the voltage-clamp technique.2. With an increase in [Ca](o) or a decrease in pH in the external solution, the current-voltage (I-V) relations for the peak of the Na and Ca currents shifted along the voltage axis in the positive direction. These voltage shifts in the I-V relations, measured at a potential of V((1/2)) where inward current attains its half-maximum, were shown to be identical to shifts in voltage-dependence of the time courses of Na and Ca currents, and also identical to shifts in the inactivation curves of Na current along the voltage axis.3. The shifts in V((1/2)) produced by various polyvalent cations or H(+) ions were analysed by the Gouy-Chapman equation for the diffuse double layer, by assuming that a change in V((1/2)) directly corresponds to a change in the surface double layer potential.4. The V((1/2))-divalent cation concentration relations of Na current were exactly described by the predictions of the theory with a constant value of the surface charge density of 1e(-)/(9 A)(2). The weak stabilizing effects of Mg(2+), Sr(2+) and Ba(2+) were quite similar to each other and were explained in terms of a ;screening' effect. Other divalent cations, such as Ca(2+), Mn(2+) and Ni(2+), showed various different stabilizing effects which were explained in terms of a ;binding' effect. The binding constants (K(1)'s) for Ca(2+), Mn(2+) and Ni(2+) were 0.21, 0.45 and 0.94 M(-1), respectively.5. H(+) ions showed a powerful stabilizing effect upon the Na current with a K(H) of 6 x 10(4)M(-1). This value indicates that the acidic sites around Na channels have a pK(a) of 4.78. La(3+) ions also acted as a strong stabilizer upon the Na current with a K(La) of 15 M(-1). For both H(+) and La(3+), the V((1/2))-concentration relations were also exactly described by the Gouy-Chapman equation with the same charge density of 1e(-)/(9 A)(2) as estimated by varying divalent cations.6. The stabilizing effect of permeant cations such as Ca(2+), Sr(2+) and Ba(2+) on Ca channel currents was analysed. The effect of lowering pH was also studied. It was found that the surface charge density of 1e(-)/(9 A)(2) estimated by Na current is also applicable to the explanation for the V((1/2))-divalent cation concentration or - pH relationships. The estimated binding constants for H(+), Ca(2+) and Sr(2+) were 1.2x10(5), 0.58 and 0.035 M(-1), respectively. Ba(2+) does not bind to charged sites near to the Ca channels.7. It was noticed that a considerable reduction in the conductances of Na and Ca currents occurred in parallel with a stabilizing effect. This reduction was ascribed to a decrease in the concentration of permeant cations at the external surface of the cell membrane, as predicted by the theory of the diffuse double layer. The Goldman, Hodgkin-Katz equation for ionic currents was applied to explain the conductance suppression.8. The conductance suppressions of Na and Ca channel currents due to Ca(2+), Sr(2+) and Ba(2+) were found to be apparent ones, only reflecting decreases in the surface concentration of permeant cations without any changes in the permeability. After correction for the apparent suppression, the real permeability ratio among Ca(2+), Sr(2+) and Ba(2+) for Ca channels was determined as 1.00, 0.56 and 0.21 respectively.9. The conductance suppression of Na current by lowering pH was explained in terms of a real suppression or blocking which is superimposed on the apparent suppression. Considering the surface [Na](o), the plot of P(Na) against the surface pH yielded a blocking curve of Na channel by H(+) ions, which implies that two H(+) ions are necessary to block each Na channel. For Ca channels no real blockage was observed in acidic pH.10. It was concluded from the present experiment that there exists a surface potential capable of affecting both gating and permeation mechanisms of ionic channels in this tunicate egg cell membrane.
A novel lipopolysaccharide-binding hemagglutinin isolated from hemocytes of the solitary ascidian, Halocynthia roretzi: it can agglutinate bacteria.	A hemagglutinin was isolated from hemocytes of the ascidian, Halocynthia roretzi, by a procedure including extraction and ion-exchange chromatography on CM-cellulose. The molecular weight of the hemagglutinin was estimated to be 120,000 by gel filtration. It was resistant to acid treatment but sensitive to alkali or heat treatment. The hemagglutinating activity was inhibited by heparin, chondroitin sulfate, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS), but not by mono- and disaccharides such as N-acetyl-galactosamine, galactose, and melibiose. The hemagglutinin showed binding ability to heparin and LPS, as demonstrated by heparin-Sepharose chromatography and centrifugation experiments, respectively. It was also found that the hemagglutinin can bind to various bacteria such as Escherichia coli, Bacillus subtilis, Vibrio anguillarum, Pseudomonas perfectomarinus, Achromobacter aquamarinus, and Alteromonas putrefaciens, and can agglutinate all of them.
Lipopolysaccharide induces release of a metallo-protease from hemocytes of the ascidian, Halocynthia roretzi.	Hemocytes of the solitary ascidian, Halocynthia roretzi, released a succinyl-Leu-Leu-Val-Tyr-4-methylcoumaryl-7-amide hydrolyzing enzyme in response to lipopolysaccharide treatment. The response was dependent on the temperature for incubating hemocytes. The protease release reaction was not triggered by beta 1-3 glucan. The protease released showed strict substrate specificity and its activity was inhibited by EDTA and o-phenanthroline, but not by phosphoramidon, diisopropylfluorophosphate, N-ethylmaleimide, or p-chloromercuribenzoic acid. Thus, the enzyme was characterized as a phosphoramidon-insensitive metallo-protease. Calcium ionophore, phorbol myristate acetate, concanavalin A, and thrombin also induced the release of the same protease from H. roretzi hemocytes.
Variety is the spice of life histories: comparison of intraspecific variability in marine invertebrates.	Life-history characteristics of marine invertebrates exhibit broad diversity across taxa as well as considerable variation within species. Although such variation is widely recognized, comparisons of the magnitude of variability as an outcome of evolutionary processes are relatively rare. Theory predicts, for example, that patterns of variability within and between clutches can arise as a consequence of population genetic structure, environmental variability, and the uncertainty of future ecological conditions. We review the strengths and weaknesses of several statistical methods for comparing variability across distributions, including Levene's test, use of the coefficient of variation in F-tests, and analysis of covariance. We then use four case studies from our own work and from the literature to illustrate adaptive patterns of variability related to metamorphosis, habitat differentiation, physiological stress, and life-history mode. These examples demonstrate the value of comparing variability for a range of questions associated with reproductive ecology, life-history biology, and genotype-by-environment interactions. We encourage researchers studying larval ecology and life-history evolution to explicitly consider the causes and consequences of variances in traits along with their means in models, experimental designs, analyses, and interpretations.
Primary and secondary messengers in the activation of ascidian eggs.	Two early events of activation in the ascidian egg, the surface contraction and the fertilization current, were studied. Ca ionophore induces contraction without generating a fertilization current, whereas microinjection of IP3 or soluble fractions of homogenized spermatozoa trigger both a contraction and a current. This suggests that the primary trigger of activation in ascidian eggs is a soluble component of spermatozoa that may be released into the egg subsequent to gamete fusion. IP3, or other intermediates in phosphoinositide metabolism, is a putative second messenger that activates fertilization channels directly (probably a Ca-independent process), and subsequently induces surface contraction by releasing Ca from intracellular stores.
Ionic currents through the membrane of the mammalian oocyte and their comparison with those in the tunicate and sea urchin.	1. The action potential and the membrane current of the mouse oocyte were analysed by current-clamp and voltage-clamp techniques and they were compared with those of other animal oocytes. 2. The matured and unfertilized oocyte of the mouse in standard medium with 6 mM-K showed the resting potential of -23-1+/-2-9 mV. The resting potential was relatively large in the medium with 20 mM-Ca or 10 mM-Mn, being -35-7+/-2-6 mV and further increased to -46-9+/-4-8 mV with replacement of Na in the medium by choline. 3. At the cessation of large hyperpolarization below -90 mV in standard medium, a regenerative potential was often elicited in the form of an off-response. The off-response depended upon the external concentration of Ca. In 20 mM-Ca medium it was constantly observed with hyperpolarization below -60 mV. Its critical level was -40 mV and its overshoot was +15 mV. 4. The time and potential-dependent inward current was observed both in standard and 20 mM-Ca media under voltage-clamp condition. In 20 mM-Ca medium the inward current was observed by depolarization beyond -40 mV and showed its maximum at -15 mV. It was greatly reduced by replacing the external Ca with Mn but retained by substituting Sr or Ba for Ca. The selectivity ratios among these alkali earth cations were Ca:Sr:Ba=1-0:1-4:0-7. 5. The current-voltage relation in Ca and Na-deficient and 10 mM-Mn medium was linear from -200 to +25 mV. The hyperpolarization below -200 mV revealed an inward-going rectification. The depolarization above +50 mV under voltage-clamp condition induced the outward surge current with activation and inactivation processes. 6. In contrast to the mouse oocyte, the matured and unfertilized oocyte of the sea urchin showed a large resting potential of -70 mV in 30 Ca ASW and the depolarization beyond -40 mV elicited an action potential with an overshoot of 20 mV. The action potential showed a notch in the rising phase and lasted about 1 to 2 sec. 7. Under the voltage-clamp condition both Ca inward current and the outward surge current were observed in the sea urchin oocyte membrane just as in the mouse oocyte membrane. 8. The selectivity ratios among alkali earth cations, Ca:Sr:Ba, for 'Ca  channels' of the oocyte membranes were 1-0:1-4:0-7 in the mouse, 1-0:1-7:1-1 in the tunicate and 1-0:0-7:0-5 in the sea urchin. When the current density through Ca channels are revised in terms of the respective critical levels for Ca channels, the revised selectivity sequences become Ca greater than Sr greater than Ba, being common to all three species.
Activation currents, sperm entry and surface contractions in ascidian eggs.	Spermatozoa from the mollusc Ostrea edulis are capable of fusing to and entering de-chorionated ascidian eggs. During interaction they generate activation currents, comparable to the fertilisation currents induced by homologous spermatozoa. Activation currents are inward at -80 mV, with a mean initial slope of 111 +/- 124 pA/s for Ciona intestinalis eggs and 47 +/- 25 pA/s for Phallusia mammillata eggs, while the mean peak currents are 2782 +/- 1132 pA and 1523 +/- 1668 pA, respectively. The fertilisation and activation currents reverse at a holding potential of 0 mV to + 20 mV, suggesting that oyster sperm and ascidian sperm gate the same channel precursor, a non-specific, large conductance channel described previously (Dale & DeFelice, 1984). In contrast to homologous fertilisation, the activation current is not followed by a polarised contraction of the egg surface, nor other signs of egg activation. Staining eggs with Hoechst 33342 after insemination shows the female nucleus and a single oyster sperm nucleus at the antipode. This suggests a specialised predetermined site at the vegetal pole for sperm entry. Homologous and heterologous spermatozoa delivered, in a large pipette, to localised areas of the egg surface generate fast inward currents of 200-2000 pA, but do not induce contraction of the egg surface. This shows that although channel precursors are located globally over the egg surface, channel activation does not necessarily trigger the contraction wave. Subsequent induction of both a fertilisation current and a contraction by homologous sperm added to the bath, implies a regionalised activation site with an accumulation of channel precursors and a 'pacemaker' for the initiation of the contraction wave.
Soluble extracts from ascidian spermatozoa trigger intracellular calcium release independently of the activation of the ADP ribose channel.	We have injected soluble extracts of sperm from the ascidian Ciona intestinalis into oocytes of the same species to test whether these extracts can mimic the events of fertilisation. Injection of ascidian sperm extracts leads, after a delay of approximately 60 s, to a large calcium transient and repetitive pattern of calcium oscillations, mimicking the normal fertilisation response. The response was concentration-independent, suggesting a stimulatory mechanism in triggering the fertilisation response. We tested the pathway of calcium release in ascidian oocytes after injection of sperm extracts by preinjection of calcium release inhibitors. The data demonstrate that dual pathways to calcium release act at fertilisation in ascidians, as in other species. C. intestinalis oocytes are characterised by a ion channel in the plasma membrane that is gated uniquely by ADP ribose. We show that this channel is not gated by the injection of ascidian sperm extracts. Our data suggest that one metabolic pathway triggered by sperm, the release of nitric oxide, is not stimulated by sperm extracts and that several metabolic pathways are stimulated at fertilisation by more than one factor within sperm.
