Expression cloning of an ascidian syndecan suggests its role in embryonic cell adhesion and morphogenesis.	Expression cloning of maternally expressed genes of the ascidian Ciona savignyi demonstrated that the overexpression of syndecan, a member of a multigene family of integral membrane heparan sulfate proteoglycans, resulted in a disturbance of cell adhesion and morphogenesis. The Ciona syndecan gene was expressed both maternally and zygotically. The maternal transcript was distributed evenly in fertilized eggs and early embryos up to the 32-cell stage without any special localization and then became barely detectable in the 64-cell and gastrula stages. The zygotic transcription became evident during neurulation, mainly in cells of epidermis, the central nervous system, and mesenchyme. Embryos with syndecan overexpression via RNA injection cleaved as did normal embryos, but showed loose blastomere adhesion after the 32-cell stage. Gastrulation occurred, but the closure of the blastopore was markedly delayed, resulting in larvae without normal morphology. About half of the syndecan-overexpressing embryos hatched, and differentiation of epidermis, endoderm, muscle, and notochord was evident. However, the formation of pigment cells of the sensory organs was markedly disturbed. These results indicate that an appropriate level of syndecan expression is required for normal cell adhesion and morphogenesis of the ascidian embryo.
Structure and developmental expression of the ascidian TRP gene: insights into the evolution of pigment cell-specific gene expression.	The tyrosinase family in vertebrates consists of three related melanogenic enzymes: tyrosinase, tyrosinase-related protein-1 (TRP-1), and TRP-2. These proteins control melanin production in pigment cells and play a crucial role in determining vertebrate coloration. We have isolated a gene from the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi which encodes a tyrosinase-related protein (HrTRP) with 45-49% identity with vertebrate TRP-1 and TRP-2. The expression of the HrTRP gene in pigment lineage a8.25 cells starts at the early-mid gastrula stage, which coincides with the stage when these cells are determined as pigment precursor cells; therefore, it provides the earliest pigment lineage-specific marker, which enables us to trace the complete cell lineage leading to two pigment cells in the larval brain. In addition, the expression pattern of the HrTRP gene appears to share similar characteristics with the mouse TRP-2 gene although structurally the HrTRP gene is more closely related to mammalian TRP-1 genes. Based on these observations and on results from molecular phylogenetic and hybridization analyses, we suggest that triplication of the tyrosinase family occurred during the early radiation of chordates. Initially, duplication of an ancestral tyrosinase gene produced a single TRP gene before the urochordate and cephalochordate-vertebrate divergence, and a subsequent duplication of the ancestral TRP gene in the vertebrate lineage gave rise to two TRP genes before the emergence of teleost fishes. Evolution of the melanin synthetic pathway and possible phylogenetic relationships among chordate pigment cells that accommodate the metabolic process are discussed. Dev Dyn 1999;215:225-237.
The forkhead gene FH1 is involved in evolutionary modification of the ascidian tadpole larva.	The forkhead gene FH1 encodes a HNF-3beta protein required for gastrulation and development of chordate features in the ascidian tadpole larva. Although most ascidian species develop via a tadpole larva, the conventional larva has regressed into an anural (tailless) larva in some species. Molgula oculata (the tailed species) exhibits a tadpole larva with chordate features (a dorsal neural sensory organ or otolith, a notochord, striated muscle cells, and a tail), whereas its sister species Molgula occulta (the tailless species) has evolved an anural larva, which has lost these features. Here we examine the role of FH1 in modifying the larval body plan in the tailless species. We also examine FH1 function in tailless speciesxtailed species hybrids, in which the otolith, notochord, and tail are restored. The FH1 gene is expressed primarily in the presumptive endoderm and notochord cells during gastrulation, neurulation, and larval axis formation in both species and hybrids. In the tailless species, FH1 expression is down-regulated after neurulation in concert with arrested otolith, notochord, and tail development. The FH1 expression pattern characteristic of the tailed species is restored in hybrid embryos prior to the development of chordate larval features. Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) shown previously to disrupt FH1 function were used to compare the developmental roles of this gene in both species and hybrids. As described previously, antisense FH1 ODNs inhibited endoderm invagination during gastrulation, notochord extension, and larval tail formation in the tailed species. Antisense FH1 ODNs also affected gastrulation in the tailless species, although the effects were less severe than in the tailed species, and an anural larva was formed. In hybrid embryos, antisense FH1 ODNs blocked restoration of the otolith, notochord, and tail, reverting the larva back to the anural state. The results suggest that changes in FH1 expression are involved in re-organizing the tadpole larva during the evolution of anural development.
Ascidian embryos as a model system to analyze expression and function of developmental genes.	Ascidians have served as an appropriate experimental system in developmental biology for more than a century. The fertilized egg develops quickly into a tadpole larva, which consists of a small number of organs including epidermis, central nervous system with two sensory organs, endoderm and mesenchyme in the trunk, and notochord and muscle in the tail. This configuration of the ascidian tadpole is thought to represent the most simplified and primitive chordate body plan. Their embryogenesis is simple, and lineage of embryonic cells is well documented. The ascidian genome contains a basic set of genes with less redundancy compared to the vertebrate genome. Cloning and characterization of developmental genes indicate that each gene is expressed under discrete spatio-temporal pattern within their lineage. In addition, the use of various molecular techniques in the ascidian embryo system highlights its advantages as a future experimental system to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying the expression and function of developmental genes as well as genetic circuitry responsible for the establishment of the basic chordate body plan. This review is aimed to highlight the recent advances in ascidian embryology.
Signaling pathway from [Ca2+]i transients to ooplasmic segregation involves small GTPase rho in the ascidian egg.	Intracellular Ca2+ transients occur at fertilization in the eggs of all animal species and are thought to be critical for the initiation of several events in egg activation. The rho family of small GTPases are known to organize and maintain the actin filament-dependent cytoskeleton, and rho is involved in the control mechanism of cytokinesis. In the ascidian Ciona savignyi, the first step of ooplasmic segregation observed just after fertilization is cortical contraction with egg deformation, mediated by the cortical actin filaments. C3 exoenzyme, a rho-specific inhibitor, did not affect the pattern of [Ca2+]i transients in the ascidian egg, but inhibited ooplasmic segregation and cytokinesis at the first cleavage. Injection of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate or treatment of Ca2+ ionophore induced deformation of the egg and extrusion of the first polar body, but these phenomena did not occur in the C3 exoenzyme-injected egg. These results suggest that rho proteins are involved in egg deformation, ooplasmic segregation and cytokinesis downstream of the [Ca2+]i transients.
Tracing cell fate in brain formation during embryogenesis of the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi.	Ascidian eggs develop into tadpole larvae. They have a simple central nervous system (CNS) at the dorsal midline. The CNS is formed through neural tube formation at the neurula stage, as in vertebrates. The total number of cells in the CNS is approximately 300. In Halocynthia roretzi, the anterior part of the CNS, which consists of the brain (sensory vesicle) and the visceral ganglion, is exclusively derived from 10 blastomeres at the 110-cell stage. The anterior CNS is relatively complex and shows remarkable left-right asymmetry, with the lumen of the sensory vesicle, the otolith, and the ocellus on the right side, and the presumed hydrostatic pressure organ on the left side. We labeled these 10 precursor blastomeres - six in the animal hemisphere (a-line) and four in the vegetal hemisphere (A-line) - with lineage tracer, and examined the fates in swimming larvae. The clonal organization of the anterior CNS is essentially invariant among individuals, although slight variation in the clonal boundary was observed. There was no extensive mixing between descendants of each precursor. We observed no evidence of cell migration except for two neuronal cells derived from a8.25 blastomeres. The eventual fates of the bilateral blastomeres produced extensive left-right asymmetry. The results suggest that the anterior neural tube rotates in a clockwise direction when viewed from the posterior pole. Staged observation indicated that this rotation takes place during the last 5 h of embryogenesis. We describe detailed positions of descendants of each precursor blastomere. In particular, specific cells of sensory structures were identified by their morphology and staining with specific antibodies and probes. The otolith and ocellus pigment cells were derived from left and right a8.25 blastomeres. Lens cells of the ocellus have a right A8.8 origin, and most of the photoreceptor cells originated from the right A8.7. The presumed pressure organ was formed by descendants of left and right a8.19 and left a8.17 blastomeres. The description of cell lineages of the CNS would facilitate future research to analyze the mechanisms of development of the simple CNS of ascidian tadpole larvae.
Embryonic versus blastogenetic development in the compound ascidian Botryllus schlosseri: insights from Pitx expression patterns.	The colonial ascidians reproduce either sexually or asexually, having evolved a rich variety of modes of propagative development. During embryogenesis, the fertilized egg develops into a swimming tadpole larva that subsequently metamorphoses into a sessile oozooid. Clonal individuals (blastozooids), resembling oozooids, are formed from few bud-forming multipotent somatic cells, following a wide range of ways that seem to characterize each family of this class. Here, we compare these two developmental processes in the compound ascidian species Botryllus schlosseri to determine whether similar gene activities are used during embryogenesis/metamorphosis and recruited in the asexual development. We analyzed expression of Pitx, a Paired-related homeobox gene. Pitx genes are key developmental genes in vertebrates, and their expression is reported to be conserved in chordate stomodea and in the establishment of left/right asymmetries. Here, we report full-length cDNA cloning of a B. schlosseri Pitx ortholog (Bs-Pitx) and expression analysis during both embryo/metamorphosis and blastogenesis. During organogenesis of both developmental sequences, Bs-Pitx was detected in identical domains: the stomodeum/neural complex and asymmetrically in the left digestive system. In striking contrast, expression patterns at early stages differ deeply. These observations provide the first evidence for a key developmental gene being deployed in essentially similar ways in two different developmental sequences that eventually give rise to similar zooids.
Notochord morphogenesis: a prickly subject for ascidians.	Orchestrated cell movements marshalled by proper cell polarity in the developing body axes are fundamental to the elongation of the notochord during chordate embryogenesis. A recent study shows that, in ascidians, the planar cell polarity gene prickle regulates sequential establishment of cell polarity during two phases of notochord morphogenesis.
Macho-1 functions as transcriptional activator for muscle formation in embryos of the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi.	Various kinds of maternal factor that play crucial roles in embryogenesis are present and localized in the ascidian egg cytoplasm. Localized maternal mRNA of the macho-1 gene is a muscle determinant in the embryo of the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi. The macho-1 protein has a zinc-finger domain and accumulates in nuclei, being expected to function as a DNA-binding transcription factor. In the present study, we show that macho-1 is, indeed, a DNA-binding transcriptional activator, and directly or indirectly regulates the expression of six downstream genes. Macho-1 was required and sufficient for expression of the muscle actin, myosin, calcium transporter, myogenic factor, Tbx6, and snail genes, whose expression is initiated in muscle blastomeres at the cleavage stages in normal embryos. Furthermore, when macho-1 conjugated with a transcription-repression domain of Drosophila engrailed (En(R)) was expressed in embryos, it repressed expression of these downstream genes. In contrast, expression of macho-1 fused with a transcription-activation domain of VP16 caused ectopic expression of these muscle genes in non-muscle blastomeres. PCR-assisted binding-site selection and gel-retardation assay showed that macho-1 protein binds to the consensus target sequence (TGGGTGGTC) for GLI/Zic-family proteins, and that three guanine residues with underlines are crucial for the specificity. The 5' promoter region of the muscle actin gene supported expression of the reporter gene only in muscle cells at late stage. By contrast, when the target sequence was added to the promoter, it well reproduced early expression of muscle actin at the cleavage stage, indicating that macho-1 can recognize the target sequence in vivo. In conclusion, the maternal muscle determinant macho-1 functions as a transcription factor that positively regulates gene expression for muscle formation in ascidian embryos.
Patterning across the ascidian neural plate by lateral Nodal signalling sources.	Ascidians are invertebrate chordates with a simple larval tadpole form containing a notochord and an overlying dorsal neural tube. As in vertebrates, the neural tube of ascidian larvae displays positional differences along the rostral-caudal and dorsal-ventral axes in terms of neuronal cell types generated, morphology and gene expression. However, how these differences are established in this simple chordate remains largely unknown. In this study, we show that a single blastomere named b6.5, which is situated in a lateral position in the 32-cell-stage embryo, is a source of signal(s) required for patterning across the medial-lateral axis (future ventral-dorsal axis) of the neural plate. We identify this signal as a Ciona homologue of Nodal, Ci-Nodal. Transcriptional activation of Ci-Nodal in b6.5 depends upon vegetally derived Ci-FGF9/16/20. Using three distinct reagents to inhibit Nodal signals, we show that Nodal signalling is required for neural plate patterning across the medial-lateral axis and that, in the absence of this signal, the caudal-lateral part of the neural plate adopts a medial-like fate. Secondary muscle fate is similarly affected. We conclude that specification of the lateral neural plate is initiated by signalling sources laterally flanking the neural plate and involves a cell-fate choice between lateral and medial neural fates, with Nodal signalling promoting lateral fate. This role for Nodal signalling during ascidian neural plate patterning contrasts with that in vertebrates, where it is implicated in promoting a medial neural fate, the floor plate.
Cell cycle-dependent change of proteasome distribution during embryonic development of the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi.	The proteasome is a multicatalytic proteinase complex composed of nonidentical subunits. By immunocytochemical analysis using monoclonal antibody raised against the egg proteasome, we demonstrate that the proteasome undergoes changes in its subcellular distribution, depending on the cell division cycle during embryonic development of the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi. During interphase, the proteasome is localized in the nucleus, i.e., in the nucleoplasm and along the nuclear membrane. The proteasome disappears from the nucleoplasm in prophase and from the nuclear envelope in prometaphase. During early metaphase, the proteasome is detectable in the chromosomes and, at late stages of metaphase, the immunoreactivity also occurs in the peripheral region of each spindle pole and at the mitotic spindle. In anaphase, however, the staining disappears in the mitotic apparatus. In telophase, the proteasome is again localized in the newly formed nucleus. In addition to the localization in the nucleus and around the mitotic apparatus, the proteasome shows cytoplasmic localization throughout the cell division cycle. Such a change of subcellular distribution of the proteasome is clearly demonstrated in the synchronously dividing blastomeres and also is believed to occur in the postcleavage embryos. These observations suggest that the proteasome may play a key role in the progression of cell division cycle.
Multiple actin genes encoding the same alpha-muscle isoform are expressed during ascidian development.	Ascidian embryos develop rapidly into tadpole larvae containing striated tail muscle cells. We have isolated and characterized five actin cDNA clones from a Styela clava tailbud-stage library. The nucleotide sequences of these clones and genomic Southern blot analysis indicate that they represent at least four different muscle actin genes, which are designated ScTb1, ScTb24, ScTb30, and ScTb12/34. The derived protein sequences of these genes indicate that they encode the same alpha-muscle actin which has features related to each of the three different classes of vertebrate alpha-muscle actins. Northern and in situ hybridization with probes prepared from the 3' untranslated region (UTR) of several of the ScTb clones showed that these muscle actin genes are expressed in different temporal and spatial patterns during development. ScTb1 was detected in eggs, embryos, and adults, ScTb24 and ScTb12/34 were detected in embryos and adults, and ScTb30 was detected only in embryos. The maternal transcripts disappeared shortly after fertilization and zygotic mRNAs were first detected during gastrulation and continued to accumulate during subsequent tail muscle differentiation. ScTb30 mRNA, which is expressed in the embryo, peaks during the tailbud stage and is present at low levels in the tadpole larva. In contrast, ScTb1, ScTb24, and ScTb12/34 mRNAs, which are expressed in embryos and adults, peak during the late tailbud stage and are present in substantial quantities in the larva. The ScTb24 gene was detected only in tail muscle cells, whereas the ScTb30 gene was detected in embryonic tail muscle, mesenchyme, epidermal, and neural cells. The ScTb24 mRNA also accumulates primarily in vascular tissue in the branchial sac and mantle of adults. The existence of a gene family encoding the same alpha-muscle actin isoform is unique among the chordates and may function to maximize muscle actin production during the rapid differentiation phase of ascidian larval muscle cells.
Polarity of the ascidian egg cortex and relocalization of cER and mRNAs in the early embryo.	The mature ascidian oocyte is a large cell containing cytoplasmic and cortical domains polarized along a primary animal-vegetal (a-v) axis. The oocyte cortex is characterized by a gradient distribution of a submembrane monolayer of cortical rough endoplasmic reticulum (cER) and associated maternal postplasmic/PEM mRNAs (cER-mRNA domain). Between fertilization and first cleavage, this cER-mRNA domain is first concentrated vegetally and then relocated towards the posterior pole via microfilament-driven cortical contractions and spermaster-microtubule-driven translocations. The cER-mRNA domain further concentrates in a macroscopic cortical structure called the centrosome attracting body (CAB), which mediates a series of asymmetric divisions starting at the eight-cell stage. This results in the segregation of determinant mRNAs and their products in posterior cells of the embryo precursors of the muscle and germ line. Using two species of ascidians (Ciona intestinalis and Phallusia mammillata), we have pursued and amplified the work initiated in Halocynthia roretzi. We have analysed the cortical reorganizations in whole cells and in cortical fragments isolated from oocytes and from synchronously developing zygotes and embryos. After fertilization, we observe that a cortical patch rich in microfilaments encircles the cER-mRNA domain, concentrated into a cortical cap at the vegetal/contraction pole (indicating the future dorsal pole). Isolated cortices also retain microtubule asters rich in cER (indicating the future posterior pole). Before mitosis, parts of the cER-mRNA domain are detected, together with short microtubules, in isolated posterior (but not anterior) cortices. At the eight-cell stage, the posteriorly located cER-mRNA domain undergoes a cell-cycle-dependant compaction into the CAB. The CAB with embedded centrosomal microtubules can be isolated with cortical fragments from eight-cell-stage embryos. These and previous observations indicate that cytoskeleton-driven repositioning and compaction of a polarized cortical domain made of rough ER is a conserved mechanism used for polarization and segregation of cortical maternal mRNAs in embryos of evolutionarily distant species of ascidians.
Evolution of alternate modes of development in ascidians.	Ascidians have evolved alternate modes of development in which the conventional tadpole larva is remodeled or eliminated. Adultation, the precocious development of adult features in the larval head, is caused by superimposing the larval and adult differentiation programs. Caudalization, the addition of muscle cells to the larval tail, is caused by enhancing muscle induction or increasing the number of muscle cell divisions before terminal differentiation. Adultation and caudalization are correlated with increased egg size, suggesting dependence on maternal processes. Anural development, the elimination of the larval stage, is caused by maternal and zygotic events resulting in abbreviation and deletion of larval developmental programs. An example of a maternal change in anural species is the modification of the egg cytoskeleton during oogenesis, whereas a zygotic change may involve altered cell interactions during embryogenesis. Interspecific hybridization experiments suggest that some aspects of anural development may be caused by loss-of-function mutations. The dissociation of developmental programs is a key process in changing the mode of development in ascidians.
Tunicates push the limits of animal evo-devo.	The phylum to which humans belong, Chordata, takes its name from one of the major shared derived features of the group, the notochord. All chordates have a notochord, at least during embryogenesis, and there is little doubt about notochord homology at the morphological level. A study in BMC Evolutionary Biology now shows that there is greater variability in the molecular genetics underlying notochord development than previously appreciated.
Polo-like kinase 1 is required for localization of Posterior End Mark protein to the centrosome-attracting body and unequal cleavages in ascidian embryos.	In ascidian embryos, the posterior-localized maternal factor Posterior End Mark (PEM) is responsible for patterning embryos along the anterior-posterior axis with regard to both cleavage pattern involving unequal cell divisions and gene expression. Although PEM plays important roles in embryogenesis, its mechanism of action is still unclear because PEM has no known functional domain. In the present study, we explored the candidate of PEM partner proteins in Halocynthia roretzi using yeast two-hybrid screening. We isolated a homologue of Polo-like kinase 1 (Plk1), a key regulator of cell division and highly conserved in eukaryotes, as the first potential binding partner of PEM. We biochemically confirmed that interaction occurred between the Plk1 and PEM proteins. Immunostaining showed that Plk1 protein concentrates in the centrosome-attracting body (CAB) at the posterior pole, where PEM protein is also localized. The CAB is a subcellular structure that plays an important role in generating the posterior cleavage pattern. Plk1 localization to the CAB was dependent on the cell cycle phases during unequal cleavage. Inhibition of Plk1 with specific drugs resulted in failure of the nucleus to migrate towards the posterior pole and formation of a microtubule bundle between the CAB and a centrosome, similarly to inhibition of PEM function, suggesting that both proteins are involved in the same process of unequal cleavages. This interrupted nuclear migration was rescued by overexpression of PEM. In Plk1-inhibited embryos, the localization of PEM protein to the CAB was impaired, indicating that Plk1 is required for appropriate localization of PEM.
Embryological methods in ascidians: the Villefranche-sur-Mer protocols.	Ascidians (marine invertebrates: urochordates) are thought to be the closest sister groups of vertebrates. They are particularly attractive models because of their non-duplicated genome and the fast and synchronous development of large populations of eggs into simple tadpoles made of about 3,000 cells. As a result of stereotyped asymmetric cleavage patterns all blastomeres become fate restricted between the 16- and 110 cell stage through inheritance of maternal determinants and/or cellular interactions. These advantageous features have allowed advances in our understanding of the nature and role of maternal determinants, inductive interactions, and gene networks that are involved in cell lineage specification and differentiation of embryonic tissues. Ascidians have also contributed to our understanding of fertilization, cell cycle control, self-recognition, metamorphosis, and regeneration. In this chapter we provide basic protocols routinely used at the marine station in Villefranche-sur-Mer using the cosmopolitan species of reference Ciona intestinalis and the European species Phallusia mammillata. These two models present complementary advantages with regard to molecular, functional, and imaging approaches. We describe techniques for basic culture of embryos, micro-injection, in vivo labelling, micro-manipulations, fixation, and immuno-labelling. These methods allow analysis of calcium signals, reorganizations of cytoplasmic and cortical domains, meiotic and mitotic cell cycle and cleavages as well as the roles of specific genes and cellular interactions. Ascidians eggs and embryos are also an ideal material to isolate cortical fragments and to isolate and re-associate individual blastomeres. We detail the experimental manipulations which we have used to understand the structure and role of the egg cortex and of specific blastomeres during development.
Kinetic differences between Na channels in the egg and in the neurally differentiated blastomere in the tunicate.	In the tunicate embryo, the cleavage can be arrested at any stage by treatment with cytochalasin B, and yet treated blastomeres can express differentiated phenotypes after a certain period of incubation. We took advantage of these large differentiated blastomeres, which were amenable to electrophysiological recordings, to compare Na channels in the egg cell and those in the neurally differentiated blastomere. The macroscopic Na current in the differentiated blastomere showed a marked slow-decaying component in addition to a fast one, whereas in the egg the fast-decaying component was predominant. Both the I-V relationship and the steady-state inactivation curve shifted about 8 mV in the positive direction in the neurally differentiated blastomere compared with those in the egg cell. Furthermore, single-channel current recordings revealed that Na channels reopened more frequently in the differentiated blastomere than in the egg cell. This characteristic of the channel corresponded well to the marked slow-decaying component of the macroscopic current in the differentiated blastomere. The single-channel conductance was similar in both types of cells. We conclude that the neurally differentiated blastomere expresses a Na channel that has properties of inactivation kinetics distinct from those of the egg-type Na channel and that no detectable egg-type channel coexists in the neurally differentiated blastomeres.
Free calcium pulses following fertilization in the ascidian egg.	Using the calcium-specific, chemiluminescent photoprotein aequorin, we have measured changes in the concentration of free cytosolic calcium at fertilization in single eggs of the ascidians Phallusia mammillata and Ciona intestinalis. Shortly after insemination, the free calcium concentration rises within a minute from a resting level of about 90 nM in the unfertilized egg to a peak level of about 7 microM in Phallusia and about 10 microM in Ciona. The total duration time of this fertilization transient is 2-3 min. It is immediately followed by a series of 12 to 25 briefer calcium transients with peak levels of about 1-4 microM. These postfertilization pulses occur at regular intervals of 1-3 min during the completion of meiosis, and they stop as soon as the second polar body is formed at about 25 min. An interesting exception to this pattern was observed in eggs from Ciona that had been raised at lower temperatures during the winter months. Insemination in the absence of external calcium in Phallusia results in a pulse pattern very similar to the normal pattern. From this result we infer that the bulk (if not all) of the calcium required for both the fertilization pulse and the meiotic oscillations is released from internal sources.
Expression of epidermis-specific antigens during embryogenesis of the ascidian, Halocynthia roretzi.	We have produced two monoclonal antibodies (Epi-1 and Epi-2) which specifically recognize epidermal cells and their derivative, the larval tunic, of developing embryos of the ascidian Halocynthia roretzi. The antigens, examined by indirect immunofluorescence staining, first appear at the early tailbud stage and are present until at least the swimming larval stage. There were distinct and separate puromycin and actinomycin D sensitivity periods for each antigen. Aphidicolin, a specific inhibitor of DNA synthesis, prevented the appearance of each antigen when embryos were exposed to the drug continuously from cleavage stages. These results suggest that the antigens are synthesized during embryogenesis by developing epidermal cells and that several rounds of DNA replication are required for the antigen expression. Early cleavage stage embryos, including fertilized but unsegmented eggs, in which cytokinesis had been blocked with cytochalasin B expressed the antigens, and blastomeres exhibiting the antigens were always of the epidermis lineage. In partial embryos produced by four separated blastomere pairs of the 8-cell embryos, the expression of antigens was seen only in those developed from the animal blastomere pairs, which are progenitors of epidermal cells. These observations indicate that differentiation of epidermal cells in ascidian embryos takes place in a typical "mosaic" fashion.
A rapid increase in acetylcholinesterase mRNA during ascidian embryogenesis as demonstrated by microinjection into Xenopus laevis oocytes.	Poly(A+)RNA was prepared from Ciona intestinalis embryos isolated from six different developmental stages. Using Xenopus laevis oocytes as a translation assay, we find that functional acetylcholinesterase (AChE) mRNA is not present in Ciona embryos until shortly before the neural plate stage. These studies show that ascidian AChE mRNA is translated in Xenopus oocytes which should prove useful as an aid for cloning this gene. The interest in this enzyme stems from the possible correlation between cytoplasmic determinants, hypothesized to exist in the muscle lineage cells of these embryos, and the exclusive localization of AChE to larval tail muscle.
Acetylcholinesterase development in extra cells caused by changing the distribution of myoplasm in ascidian embryos.	This research shows that myoplasmic crescent material of the ascidian egg has both functional autonomy and functional specificity in establishing the differentiation pathway of muscle lineage cells. The cytoplasmic segregation pattern in eggs of Styela plicata was altered by compression of the embryos during third cleavage. This caused a meridional division instead of the normal equatorial third cleavage; first and second cleavages are meridional. Since eggs of S. plicata have a pronounced yellow myoplasmic crescent, one observes directly that third cleavage under compression resulted in a flat 8-cell stage with four cells containing yellow myoplasm instead of the two myoplasm-containing cells that would be formed by normal equatorial division at third cleavage. If such altered 8-cell-stage embryos were released from compression and kept from undergoing further divisions by continuous treatment with cytochalasin B, some embryos eventually developed histospecific acetylcholinesterase in three and four cells instead of in just the two muscle lineage cells found in cleavage-arrested normal 8-cell stages. The wider myoplasmic distribution effected by altering the division plane at third cleavage apparently caused a change in developmental fate of the extra cells receiving myoplasm. This meridional third cleavage also resulted in a changed nuclear lineage pattern. Two nuclei that would ordinarily be in ectodermal lineage cells after third cleavage were now associated with yellow myoplasm. Acetylcholinesterase development in these cells demonstrates that nuclear lineages are not responsible for muscle acetylcholinesterase development in the ascidian embryo.
An ankryin-like protein in ascidian eggs and its role in the evolution of direct development.	An erythrocyte anti-ankryin antibody was used to investigate the presence and distribution of ankryin in eggs and embryos of ascidian species with different modes of development. In eggs of the indirect developer Ascidia ceratodes, anti-ankryin reacted with a 210 kDa polypeptide which has an electrophoretic mobility similar to the vertebrate ankryins. Immunofluorescence microscopy showed that the ankryin-like protein is co-distributed with the myoplasm throughout development. It is restricted to a thin layer under the plasma membrane in unfertilised eggs, undergoes ooplasmic segregation to the posterior pole of the zygote after fertilisation, and is distributed to the tail muscle cells during cleavage and embryogenesis. After gastrulation and neurulation, lower levels of the ankryin-like protein, presumably of zygotic origin, were observed in brain cells and in the apical margin of epidermal cells. The ankryin-like protein was also localised in the myoplasm in eggs and embryos of another indirect developing species, Halocynthia roretzi. The ankryin-like protein may link the cytoskeleton with the plasma membrane in ascidian eggs, as it does in vertebrate erythrocytes. In contrast to A. ceratodes and H. roretzi, which are members of the families Ascidiidae and Pyuridae respectively, the pattern of ankryin-like protein expression was changed in five species in the family Molgulidae. These molgulid ascidians exhibit either indirect or direct development, and eggs of the direct developing species have lost or modified the myoplasm. The ankryin-like protein was present in young oocytes but failed to persist during oogenesis and disappeared in mature eggs and embryos of these molgulid species. The change in ankryin-like protein expression may be a preadaptation for loss of the myoplasm and the evolution of direct development.
Novel genes expressed differentially in ascidians with alternate modes of development.	We have used a subtractive procedure to isolate cDNA clones encoding genes expressed differentially in ascidian species with alternate modes of development. The ascidians used in this study were Molgula occulta, which develops a tailed (urodele) larva, and Molgula occulta, which develops a tailless (anural) larva. Two of the identified clones, Uro-2 and Uro-11, are described. Southern blots show that the Uro-2 and Uro-11 genes are present in both species, but the corresponding mRNAs are expressed preferentially in the urodele species. In situ hybridization showed that Uro-2 and Uro-11 transcripts accumulate in small oocytes during oogenesis. The maternal Uro-2 and Uro-11 transcripts were distributed throughout the oocyte cytoplasm. Transcript concentrations declined during vitellogenesis, but mature eggs still contain detectable levels of Uro-2 and Uro-11 mRNA. After fertilization, the maternal Uro-2 and Uro-11 transcripts were localized in the ectoplasm of uncleaved zygotes and mostly entered the ectoderm cells during cleavage. The Uro-2 gene appears to produce only maternal transcripts. In contrast, the Uro-11 gene may also produce zygotic transcripts, which accumulate between gastrulation and neurulation in posterior epidermis, neural and tail muscle cells. Zygotic expression of the Uro-11 gene was not detected in embryos of the anural species. The deduced amino acid sequences of the Uro-2 and Uro-11 cDNAs suggest that they encode novel basic proteins with distinctive structural features. The predicted Uro-2 protein contain, a leucine zipper motif, suggesting that it may dimerize with another protein. The predicted Uro-11 protein contains a nuclear localization signal, a region with similarity to part of the DNA-binding motif in the bacterial histone-like HU and IHF proteins, 12 repeats of the proposed DNA-binding motif S(T)PXX, and a potential zinc finger of the C6 or C6H2 class, suggesting that it may be a DNA-binding protein. The Uro-2 and Uro-11 proteins are candidates for regulatory factors involved in the evolutionary transition from urodele to anural development.
Mechanisms of gastrulation and tail formation in ascidians.	Ascidian embryos are useful for examining how events that occur during fertilization and cleavage affect gastrulation because they gastrulate early in development, during the seventh cleavage. In ascidians, both dorsal-ventral and anterior-posterior axes are determined before first cleavage. The dorsal-ventral axis is fixed along the animal-vegetal axis of the fertilized egg following the first phase of ooplasmic segregation, perhaps due to determinants moved to the vegetal pole in concert with the myoplasm and plasma membrane components. The first ooplasmic movements appear to be driven by the actin network in the cortical myoplasm. The anterior-posterior axis becomes apparent after the second phase of ooplasmic segregation, when the cortical myoplasm becomes detached from the egg membrane, and moves to the posterior pole of the embryo. This movement is dependent on microtubules and has been attributed to the formation and movement of the sperm aster. A major component of the cortical myoplasm, p58, is co-localized along the microtubules emanating from the sperm aster. Gastrulation begins during the seventh cleavage with the invagination of the large endodermal cells at the vegetal pole of the embryo. The neural plate appears as a thickening of the epidermis on the dorsal side of the larva during the ninth cleavage; then the neural folds are formed, join, and close, elaborating the neural tube. Following neurulation, the tail is elongated as the neural tube and notochord cells intercalate at the midline of the embryo. Investigations using anural (tailless) ascidian larvae suggest that some of the processes underlying elongation can be restored by the zygotic genome. Although ascidian larvae contain fewer cells and cell types than vertebrate embryos, ascidian gastrulation and morphogenesis appear to employ similar mechanisms to those in vertebrate embryos. The extent of our current knowledge about the mechanisms involved in gastrulation and tail formation is summarized, and further experiments are suggested to explore the molecular mechanisms underlying these processes.
Evolutionary modifications of morphogenetic mechanisms and alternate life history strategies in ascidians.	Comparative embryological studies using anural and urodele ascidians provide an experimental system to study interactions between developmental and evolutionary mechanisms that produce alternate life history strategies. In this paper, cellular features of anural morphogenesis in Molgula pacifica are compared to morphogenesis in species that develop tailed (urodele) larvae and other anural molgulid species. The results of these studies are discussed with regard to possible mechanisms responsible for the evolution of anural morphogenesis and the ecological consequences of anural development. Early developmental processes including ooplasmic segregation, cleavage patterns, and the site and timing of gastrulation were similar in M. pacifica compared to urodele embryos and embryos produced by other anural species. The limited extent of invagination caused by large, yolky cells that restricted vegetal pole cell movements in M. pacifica gastrulae contrasted with the extensive movements of vegetal pole cells that accompanied invagination in M. provisionalis embryos and the embryos of four urodele species. The modified mode of gastrulation exhibited by M. pacifica embryos is likely due to the relatively high yolk content of their eggs. The developmental fates of muscle and epidermal progenitor cells in M. pacifica embryos were altered compared to urodele embryos. Ultrastructural studies and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry experiments indicate that muscle progenitor cells have lost their potential to develop muscle cell features. This loss in myogenic potential suggests that muscle progenitor cells were re-programmed to die. However, this possibility was not supported by the results of ultrastructural studies. A second possibility is discussed in that muscle progenitor cells may have been re-specified to differentiate into adult cells after metamorphosis. Evidence is presented suggesting that the timing mechanism responsible for controlling the onset of metamorphosis, first evident by the outgrowth of epidermal ampullae, was modified in M. pacifica. This paper concludes with a discussion of how anural morphogenesis altered the ancestoral urodele life cycle and the possible ecological benefits of these evolutionary alterations.
Maternally localized RNA encoding a serine/threonine protein kinase in the ascidian, Halocynthia roretzi.	Maternally localized cytoplasmic determinants play important roles in the embryogenesis of many animals, including ascidians. Cytoplasmic determinants are particularly important in the determination of cell fates, and in the establishment of the embryonic axes. Ascidians, which show mosaic development, are good models for the study of maternal cytoplasmic determinants. Here we report the isolation and characterization of HrPOPK-1 (Halocynthia roretzi posterior protein kinase-1), a putative protein serine/threonine kinase. HrPOPK-1 cDNA was obtained from a Halocynthia roretzi fertilized egg cDNA library by screening for localized RNAs using whole-mount in situ hybridization. HrPOPK-1 mRNA is strongly localized at the posterior pole of embryos. The pattern of HrPOPK-1 mRNA localization during early embryogenesis is identical to that of HrWnt-5 in Halocynthia roretzi, and to those of the posterior end mark (pem) transcripts of Ciona savignyi. In addition, HrPOPK-1 shows zygotic expression in neural tissues at the tailbud stage. These results show that the temporal regulation of HrPOPK-1 transcription is complex.
Regulation of the trunk-tail patterning in the ascidian embryo: a possible interaction of cascades between lithium/beta-catenin and localized maternal factor pem.	Embryonic cell specification and pattern formation in the ascidian embryo are controlled by prelocalized egg cytoplasmic determinants. In previous studies, we showed that overexpression of a maternal gene, posterior end mark (pem), whose transcript localizes to posterior-vegetal cytoplasm of the fertilized egg, causes a loss of the anterior and dorsal structures of the larva (Yoshida et al., Development 122, 2005-2012, 1996). In the present study, first we observed that lithium treatment resulted in reduction of the larval tail. Lineage tracing analyses revealed that descendants of the A4.1 blastomere of the 8-cell-stage embryo (which forms the greater part of notochord and nerve cord) were missing from the tail region, that they were translocated anteriorly into the trunk region, and that the fate of the A4.1-line notochord cells had changed to endoderm. These results suggest that lithium treatment affects the trunk-tail patterning during embryogenesis by changing the cell fate of specific cell lineages. Second, we showed that lithium treatment could rescue the anterior and dorsal structures in pem-overexpressed larvae. This result suggests that pem plays a role in the patterning of the ascidian embryo via a signaling cascade that is affected by lithium. Third, we isolated an ascidian beta-catenin gene and found that overexpression of beta-catenin in the A4.1 blastomere had effects very similar to lithium treatment, such as reduction of the tail and anterior translocation of A4.1 descendants. These results suggest that the target of lithium is, at least in part, the Wnt-signaling cascade and that pem may also function via this cascade.
Monitoring early neuronal differentiation by ion channels in ascidian embryos.	According to the evolutionary tree proposed by Garstang, the tunicate larva has a central role in directing the ancestral sessile animal derived from primitive echinoderms into the stem for vertebrates by evolution through neoteny. The close similarity of the tunicate larval body plan to those of vertebrates and the extraordinary simplicity indicated by an extremely small cell population make the ascidian embryo and larva an excellent model system for analysis of vertebrate embryonic development. Furthermore, isolated anterior animal blastomeres from the Halocynthia eight-cell cleavage-arrested embryo, which are known to include presumptive brain vesicle region, autonomously develop long-lasting Ca-dependent action potentials which are characteristic of epidermal differentiation. However, when blastometeres are cultured in contact with the anterior vegetal blastomere, which are known to include presumptive notochordal region, and raised in contacted two cell systems, the same anterior animal blastomeres now develop neuronal Na+ spikes characterized by expression of Na+ channels and triethylammonium sensitive delayed rectifier K+ channels. This unique two-cell system enables us to examine roles of cell contact in various aspects of inductive differentiation at the cellular level. In this review, we focus on this simple cellular preparation and in particular, attempt to show how to make the preparation.
An alternatively spliced gene encoding a Y-box protein showing maternal expression and tissue-specific zygotic expression in the ascidian embryo.	An ascidian Y-box protein gene was cloned, designated as CiYB, which consists of a highly conserved cold shock domain and an auxiliary tail domain with alternating modules of acidic and basic amino acids. CiYB is a single copy gene in the ascidian genome. During oogenesis and early development, CiYB produces three different transcripts (CiYB1, CiYB2 and CiYB3) by alternate splicing. CiYB1 and CiYB2 were expressed during oogenesis, suggesting that they are recruited into maternal ribonucleoprotein particles. According to gel mobility shift assay, the CiYB1 protein has the ability to bind RNA. The sequence preference of RNA binding is similar to that of the Xenopus Y-box protein (FRGY2), which is a major component of the maternal messenger ribonucleoprotein particles (mRNP) in the oocyte. These results suggest that the ascidian Y-box protein may have an important role for masking and translational regulation of maternal mRNA. Furthermore, CiYB1, CiYB2 and CiYB3 were expressed zygotically in a tissue restricted manner. CiYB1 was expressed specifically in muscle precursor blastomeres and tail muscle cells suggesting its important role in muscle differentiation.
