Retrocaval ureter.	Two cases of retrocaval ureter are reported. A 22 years old male patient presented to us with the complaints of right flank pain and hematuria and a child of 2 years referred to us for evaluation of right side moderate hydronephrosis detected on ultrasound. The diagnosis was confirmed on intravenous urography and retrograde pyelography. Both the ends were transected and anastomosed above a JJ stent in front of the inferior vena cava. Postoperatively the patients remained asymptomatic and the hydronephrosis improved.
De novo chromosome translocation t (2; 11) (p25.1; p13) in a patient with aniridia and genitourinary abnormalities.	Aniridia is a rare condition occurring in 1 in 64,000 to 1 in 96,000 live births. Approximately one third of cases are sporadic and carry a 30% risk of Wilms' tumor developing before the age of 5. The remaining 66% are inherited in an autosomal dominant fashion. The aniridia candidate gene (PAX6) has a key role as a master regulator in the development of eye and central nervous tissues. The Wilms' tumor predisposing gene (WT1) plays an important role in the development of genitourinary tract diseases such as hypospadias, cryptorchism, horse-shoe kidney, and Wilms' tumor. The WT1 and PAX6 genes are about 700 kb apart, with the WT1 gene located centromeric to PAX6 in chromosome 11p13. We report a patient with incomplete aniridia, ptosis, hypospadias, and cryptorchism. Cytogenetic analysis revealed the presence of a de novo reciprocal translocation 46, XY, t (2; 11) (p25.1; p13) without microscopic deletion. We suggest that haploinsufficiency in PAX6 and WT1 genes resulted in aniridia and associated genitourinary abnormalities.
Primary adenocarcinoma of cutaneous vesicostomy 40 years later: a rare case.	We present a case of adenocarcinoma developing at the vesicocutaneous edge of a vesicostomy, 40 years after it was created, in a patient who underwent cadaveric kidney transplant. Although transitional and squamous cell carcinoma of a vesicostomy have been reported, to our knowledge, the presence of adenocarcinoma at the vesicostomy edge has not been reported previously.
Metabolic abnormalities associated with renal calculi in patients with horseshoe kidneys.	Horseshoe kidneys are a complex anatomic variant of fused kidneys, with a 20% reported incidence of associated calculi. Anatomic causes such as high insertion of the ureter on the renal pelvis and obstruction of the ureteropelvic junction are thought to contribute to stone formation via impaired drainage, with urinary stasis, and an increased incidence of infection. In this multi-institutional study, we evaluated whether metabolic factors contributed to stone development in patients with horseshoe kidneys.
SACRAL syndrome: spinal dysraphism, anogenital, cutaneous, renal and urologic anomalies, associated with an angioma of lumbosacral localization.	Publications concerning perineal infantile hemangiomas are scarce, and comprise no large series.
On the spectrum of limb-body wall complex, exstrophy of the cloaca, and urorectal septum malformation sequence.	The limb-body wall complex (LBWC) is characterized by abdominal wall and limb defects, exstrophy of the cloaca (EC) by lack of closure of the lower abdominal wall and lack of cloacal septation, and the urorectal septum malformation sequence (URSMS) by absent perineal and anal openings, ambiguous genitalia, colonic, and renal anomalies. We report here on three fetuses whom have overlapping features of these disorders. Also we have reviewed the literature for cases with overlapping features of two or three of the above conditions. From the description of the cases reported on here and those in the literature, we propose that the overlap of features found among LBWC, EC, and URSMS represent a continuous spectrum of abnormalities, rather than three separate conditions. As such, we suggest that all three conditions may share a common etiology or pathogenetic mechanism.
Umbilical cord length in urinary tract abnormalities associated with oligohydramnios: evidence regarding developmental pathogenesis.	We performed a retrospective review of the length of the umbilical cords of stillborn fetuses with renal agenesis, cystic kidneys, and bladder outlet obstruction and compared the cord length with normative data. Among the 41 cases, 31 had umbilical cord lengths that were shorter than average. However, the remaining 10 cases had an average to increased cord length. Urinary output in those cases might have been sufficient in early pregnancy to allow adequate fetal activity and sufficient umbilical cord lengthening. We suggest that the length of the umbilical cord can have implications relative to the developmental pathogenesis of some congenital urinary tract abnormalities.
Tethered spinal cord and VACTERL association.	Vertebral defects, anal atresia, cardiovascular anomalies, tracheoesophageal fistulas (TEFs), renal anomalies, and limb defects (most often of the radius) are commonly associated and known collectively by the acronym VACTERL. The authors studied these nonrandomly associated birth defects to determine if a further relationship exists between VACTERL association and the presence of a tethered spinal cord (TSC).
Etiology and outcome of chronic renal failure in hospitalized children in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.	The aim of this study was to investigate the etiology and treatment modalities and to determine mortality risks in hospitalized children with chronic renal failure (CRF) in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam. We reviewed the records of 310 children with CRF hospitalized in Ho Chi Minh City from January 2001 to December 2005. The average annual number cases was 4.8 per million child population native to Ho Chi Minh City. Median age was 14 years; 85% of patients were in end-stage renal failure. Associated illnesses were anemia (96%), hypertension (74%), and cardiopulmonary diseases (39%). Causes of included glomerulonephritis (30%) and congenital/hereditary anomalies (20%), but in 50% of children, the etiology was unavailable. Seventy-three percent of cases with end-stage renal failure did not benefit from renal replacement therapy. During hospitalization, 47 patients (15%) died. Mortality risks were higher in young children (1-4 years), in boys, and in patients with acquired pathologies. Severe metabolic acidosis was the main predictive factor of mortality by multivariate regression analysis. Our data shows a poor outcome due to late referral and limited facilities for renal replacement therapy in children with CRF hospitalized in Ho Chi Minh City.
Congenital associated malformations in a sample of Jordanian patients with cleft lip and palate.	To report the prevalence of associated congenital malformations in Jordanian subjects with oral clefts.
Current perspectives on congenital obstructive nephropathy.	Congenital obstructive nephropathy is the leading cause of chronic renal disease in children. As a result, it represents a tremendous societal burden in terms of morbidity and mortality, as well as in health care expenses of caring for children with chronic kidney disease and end-stage renal disease. The various diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic challenges associated with congenital obstructive nephropathy highlight the importance of developing effective experimental models for studying this disease process. In this review, we define the clinical entity that is congenital obstructive nephropathy, outline the current standards of diagnosis and care, and discuss the utilization of current experimental models designed to help clarify some of the clinical conundrums associated with this important disease.
A novel image-guided balloon vaginoplasty method to treat obstructive vaginal anomalies.	Obstructive anomalies of the vagina that impair uterovaginal outflow and lead to hematocolpos have conventionally been corrected with surgery, but emerging nonsurgical therapies may offer an attractive alternative. The present report describes a method of serial balloon dilation over a transvaginally inserted guide wire to create a durable outflow tract from the uterus to the lower vagina. This technique was successfully used to treat one case each of vaginal atresia and transverse vaginal septum without the immediate need for surgery.
Long-term outcome of duplex kidney with ectopic ureter treated by antireflux ureterocystic reimplantation.	We present our 35 years' experience of managing duplex kidneys with ectopic ureter by simple antireflux ureterocystic reimplantation.
Crossed renal ectopia coexisting with nephrolithiasis in a young Nigerian man.	Renal ectopia or ectopic kidney is a congenital anomaly in which one or both kidneys are located in an unusual position. It results from the kidney failing to ascend properly from its origin in the true pelvis. In some cases, one kidney may cross over (crossed renal ectopia) so that both kidneys are on the same side of the body. When a crossover occurs, the two kidneys may grow together and become fused (crossed fused renal ectopia). Renal ectopia is generally uncommon; its coexistence with nephrolithiasis is even rarer. Due to its variable presentations, it is usually discovered incidentally, especially when investigating patients for abdominal pain. Treatment may be conservative when renal function is preserved and no complication is associated.
What is the efficacy of circumcision in boys with complex urinary tract abnormalities?	The risk of urinary tract infection (UTI) in normal boys is 1%. This risk is significantly increased in boys with congenital abnormalities of the urinary tract, which includes such abnormalities as vesico-ureteric reflux, obstructive megaureter (VUJO) and posterior urethral valves. UTI in these boys can lead to urosepsis, a potentially life-threatening complication, and in the longer term renal scarring complicating pyelonephritis can lead to chronic renal impairment or even end-stage renal disease. Circumcision has been shown in normal boys to reduce the risk of UTI by 90%, and potentially could be a simple intervention to reduce the risk of urosepsis and renal scarring. In order to make this decision a clinician really needs to have the answers to two questions: 1) What is the risk of UTI in this particular boy? 2) What is the evidence of efficacy of circumcision in this particular condition? This article reviews what evidence exists to make a calculation of the risk/benefit ratio for circumcision in boys with abnormalities of the urinary tract. 
Urinary incontinence in neurogenic defects and urogenital anomalies in childhood]	Dysraphic defects may cause neurogenic incontinence in childhood. Constipation and encopresis are often associated. Depending on the involved segment of the spinal cord hyperreflexia or atonia of the detrusor is observed. Similar findings, without anatomic correlation, can be seen in occult-neurogenic voiding dysfunctions. Therapeutic means aim at preservation of kidney function and the best possible continence. If the symptoms cannot be treated by anticholinergic drugs in a low-capacity, hypertonic bladder, augmentation by bowel segments or continent urinary diversion (e.g. Mainz I pouch) is performed. In the last years modalities of clean intermittent self-catheterization in high-capacity, atonic bladders could be enhanced by the development of new atraumatic catheter systems. Urogenital malformation e.g. proximal epispadias and exstrophic bladder can cause incontinence as well. Recently, new therapeutic concepts were introduced. Ectopic ureter (extraurethral incontinence) in girls or posterior urethral valves in boys as a reason for incontinence must not be forgotten.
Acute epididymitis and urinary tract anomalies in children.	To evaluate the incidence of urinary tract infection (UTI) and genitourinary malformations in children presenting with acute epididymitis.
