Expression of CYP4F12 in gastrointestinal and urogenital epithelia.	Cytochrome P450 4F12 (CYP4F12) was originally cloned from human liver and small intestine. CYP4F12 can oxidize arachidonic acid, two stable prostaglandin H2 analogues, and an antihistamine, ebastine, but the tissue distribution and catalytic properties of CYP4F12 have not been fully investigated. An antipeptide polyclonal antibody was raised against the C-terminal of CYP4F12 (PLNVGLQ), evaluated by Western blot analysis and used for immunohistological analysis of 50 human tissues. Western blot analysis of recombinant CYP4F12, expressed in yeast, and microsomal proteins from adult and foetal liver, kidney, placenta at term, seminal vesicles, the prostate gland and purified prostasomes showed that the polyclonal antibody detected a protein of the expected size, approximately 60 kDa. CYP4F12 mRNA could be detected in seminal vesicles and prostate gland by reverse transcription-PCR. Prominent CYP4F12 immunoreactivity occurred, inter alia, in the epithelial cells of the gastrointestinal tract (stomach, small intestine, and colon), collecting tubules, transitional epithelium, ovarian follicles, the endothelium of microvessels of placental villi (first trimester), and epidermis. We screened recombinant CYP4F12 for catalytic activity. Arachidonic acid (20:4n-6) was hydroxylated at C18 and laurate at C11, but significant amounts of metabolites of 18:2n-6, 20:3n-9, 20:5n-3, 22:5n-6, and some prostaglandins could not be detected. We conclude that CYP4F12 is widely distributed in gastrointestinal and urogenital epithelia and exhibits a narrow substrate specificity.
Regulation of calbindin mRNA and calbindin turnover in intestine and shell gland of the chicken.	A synthetic oligonucleotide was used as a probe for measurement of calbindin mRNA in the shell gland and intestine of chickens. The half time of calbindin mRNA in the duodenum and shell gland was estimated at 2 and 3.6 h and that of calbindin at 13.9 and 32.6 h, respectively. The formation rates of calbindin mRNA were 0.37 and 0.17 pmol.h-1.g-1 and the rate of calbindin formation was 0.099 and 0.031 microgram.pmol mRNA-1.h-1 in the duodenum and shell gland, respectively. In the shell gland, calbindin mRNA and calbindin appeared at the time of sexual maturation during calcification of the first egg shell. Calbindin mRNA fluctuated markedly during the daily egg cycle, in close temporal association with egg shell calcification. When Ca2+ deposition was eliminated by expulsion of the ovum, the rise in calbindin mRNA was prevented. An indirect suppression of Ca2+ deposition by administration of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor acetazolamide also resulted in a decrease in calbindin mRNA. The results are consistent with a possible role of Ca2+ flux in the regulation of calbindin mRNA appearance in the shell gland of chickens.
Mice deficient in MyD88 Develop a Th2-dominant response and severe pathology in the upper genital tract following Chlamydia muridarum infection.	MyD88, a key adaptor molecule required for many innate immunity receptor-activated signaling pathways, was evaluated in a Chlamydia muridarum urogenital tract infection model. Compared with wild-type mice, MyD88 knockout (KO) mice failed to produce significant levels of inflammatory cytokines in the genital tract during the first week of chlamydial infection. MyD88 KO mice developed a Th2-dominant whereas wild-type mice developed a Th1/Th17-dominant immune response after chlamydial infection. Despite the insufficient production of early inflammatory cytokines and lack of Th1/Th17-dominant adaptive immunity, MyD88 KO mice appeared to be as resistant to chlamydial intravaginal infection as wild-type mice based on the number of live organisms recovered from vaginal samples. However, significantly high numbers of chlamydial organisms were detected in the upper genital tract tissues of MyD88 KO mice. Consequently, MyD88 KO mice developed more severe pathology in the upper genital tract. These results together have demonstrated that MyD88-dependent signaling pathway is not only required for inflammatory cytokine production in the early phase of host response to chlamydial infection but also plays a critical role in the development of Th1/Th17 adaptive immunity, both of which may be essential for limiting ascending infection and reducing pathology of the upper genital tract by chlamydial organisms.
Minireview: The roles of small RNA pathways in reproductive medicine.	The discovery of small noncoding RNA, including P-element-induced wimpy testis-interacting RNA, small interfering RNA, and microRNA, has energized research in reproductive medicine. In the two decades since the identification of small RNA, first in Caenorhabditis elegans and then in other animals, scientists in many disciplines have made significant progress in elucidating their biology. A powerful battery of tools, including knockout mice and small RNA mimics and antagonists, has facilitated investigation into the functional roles and therapeutic potential of these small RNA pathways. Current data indicate that small RNA play significant roles in normal development and physiology and pathological conditions of the reproductive tracts of females and males. Biologically plausible mRNA targets for these microRNA are aggressively being discovered. The next phase of research will focus on elucidating the clinical utility of small RNA-selective agonists and antagonists.
Gender difference in calcification diseases: is it the result of gender-specific ways of nano-bacterial expansion?	Gender difference has been reported for frequency of the calcification diseases in urogenital system: according to published statistics data, they are more numerous in males. We suggest that the male increasing is due to nanobacterial infections and ways of their dissemination. There are specific gender-dependent ways for these infections which bring infection to the different target organs, namely: urinary tract, kidney, prostate in men and placenta in women. Identification of the suggested microbial pathogens and investigation of sex-determined pathways for the dissemination are the following steps to get ascertaining events of gender reasons for different calcification diseases. 
Vitamin K and the urogenital tract.	Solubilized microsomes from bovine liver, kidney and testis were compared with regard to their content of vitamin-K-dependent carboxylase, the presence of endogenous vitamin K as well as that of endogenous carboxylatable precursor proteins. The isolation and purification of these protein substrates was not successful. Using antibodies against various well characterized proteins containing gammacarboxyglutamic acid (Gla), we were able to identify precursors of the blood coagulation factors II, IX and X in liver microsomes. The nonhepatic proteins could not be identified in this way. Gla-containing proteins, however, were isolated from human sperm, urine and renal stones. It was demonstrated that - like osteocalcin - also the urinary Gla protein inhibits the precipitation of various calcium salts from supersaturated solutions. The concentration of the urinary Gla protein (16 mg/l) in human urine is well above the concentration required for the in vitro inhibition of salt precipitation.
Distribution of a major connective tissue protein, fibronectin, in normal human tissues.	Fibronectin is a major surface-associated glycoprotein of cultured fibroblasts and it is also present in human plasma. Antiserum specific for human fibronectin was used to study the distribution of fibronectin in normal adult human tissues. The protein was detected (a) characteristically in various basement membranes including capillary walls: (b) around individual smooth muscle cells and in the sarcolemma of striated muscle fibers; and (c) in the stroma of lymphatic tissue and as thin fibers in loose connective tissue. The distribution of fibronectin was distinct from that of collagen and elastic fibers, but was very similar to reticulin, as demonstrated by conventional histological staining. The results indicate that fibronectin is a major component of connective tissue matrix. The distribution also indicates that most types of adherent cells abut fibronectin-containing structures. This supports the possible role of fibronectin in cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions in tissues.
Nitric oxide synthase activity in the human urogenital tract.	Nitric oxide (NO) has been suggested as a nonadrenergic non-cholinergic neurotransmitter in the urogenital tract and has previously been shown to have a smooth muscle relaxing effect in the urogenital organs both in various animals and in humans. It has been shown that NO is a mediator of the erection and the dilatation of the bladder neck and urethra. The aim of the study was to analyse nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity in the human urogenital tract. NOS activity was measured by the conversion of L-[U-14C] arginine to L-[U-14C] citrulline. In the upper urinary tract there was Ca(2+)-dependent NOS activity in the renal pelvis, but no significant NOS activity could be found in the ureter. In the lower urinary tract we found high Ca(2+)-dependent NOS activity in the urethra, intermediate activity in the bladder neck and comparatively low activity in the detrusor muscle. In the male genital tract the testis and epididymis had no significant NOS activity. The vas deferens, prostate, seminal vesicle and corpus cavernosum were found to have high levels of Ca(2+)-dependent NOS activity. Ca(2+)-independent NOS activity was not obtained in the urogenital tract. Our results correspond well with previous functional studies indicating NO to be an important nerve-induced mediator of erection and in the micturition reflex, but also suggest that NO may be involved in several other functions in the human urogenital tract.
Origin of the angiotensin II secreted by cells.	Circulating angiotensin II is unique in that it is formed in the blood by the interaction of circulating proteins. There are in addition many local renin-angiotensin systems in tissues in which angiotensin II is apparently secreted by various types of cells. This brief review considers the possible pathways for synthesis of locally produced angiotensin II in the brain, the anterior pituitary, the testes, the ovaries, the adrenal cortex, the kidneys, the heart, blood vessel walls, and brown and white fat. Synthesis by cells in culture is also reviewed. The possibility that certain cells contain a complete intracellular renin-angiotensin system is not ruled out, but there are problems with this hypothesis. Proteases other than renin may be involved, and there may be different pathways in different tissues. However, it appears that at least in some tissues, angiotensinogen is produced in one population of cells and transported in a paracrine fashion to other renin-containing cells, where it serves as the substrate for production of angiotensin II.
Netilmicin kinetics in urology.	Plasma kinetics of netilmicin, an aminoglycoside antibiotic was studied in 62 patients undergoing urologic surgery. Despite the use of a standard 100 mg-dose, no toxic levels were achieved except in one patient. A poor correlation was found between netilmicin plasma elimination constant and creatinine clearance (r = 0.34, p = NS). We can conclude that the prediction of netilmicin plasma concentrations is not possible using only demographic patient's data. The monitoring of netilmicin levels should be performed in long-term treatments but not in 4-dose regimes such as in urologic prophylaxis.
