Role of endothelial cell extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 in urokinase-type plasminogen activator upregulation and in vitro angiogenesis by fibroblast growth factor-2.	Downstream signaling triggered by the binding of fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2) to its tyrosine-kinase receptors involves the activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) with consequent phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs). Here we demonstrate that FGF2 induces ERK1/2 activation in bovine aortic endothelial (BAE) cells and that the continuous presence of the growth factor is required for sustained ERK1/2 phosphorylation. This is prevented by the MEK inhibitors PD 098059 and U0126, which also inhibit FGF2-mediated upregulation of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) and in vitro formation of capillary-like structures in three-dimensional type I collagen gel. Various FGF2 mutants originated by deletion or substitution of basic amino acid residues in the amino terminus or in the carboxyl terminus of FGF2 retained the capacity to induce a long-lasting activation of ERK1/2 in BAE cells. Among them, K128Q/R129Q-FGF2 was also able to stimulate uPA production and morphogenesis whereas R129Q/K134Q-FGF2 caused uPA upregulation only. In contrast, K27, 30Q/R31Q-FGF2, K128Q/K138Q-FGF2 and R118,129Q/K119,128Q-FGF2 exerted a significant uPA-inducing and morphogenic activity in an ERK1/2-dependent manner only in the presence of heparin. Furthermore, no uPA upregulation and morphogenesis was observed in BAE cells treated with the deletion mutant (delta)27-32-FGF2 even in the presence of soluble heparin. Thus, mutational analysis of FGF2 dissociates the capacity of the growth factor to induce a persistent activation of ERK1/2 from its ability to stimulate uPA upregulation and/or in vitro angiogenesis. In conclusion, the data indicate that ERK1/2 phosphorylation is a key step in the signal transduction pathway switched on by FGF2 in endothelial cells. Nevertheless, a sustained ERK1/2 activation is not sufficient to trigger uPA upregulation and morphogenesis. FGF2 mutants may represent useful tools to dissect the signal transduction pathway(s) mediating the complex response elicited by an angiogenic stimulus in endothelial cells.
Urokinase plasminogen activator induces human smooth muscle cell migration and proliferation via distinct receptor-dependent and proteolysis-dependent mechanisms.	In order to define the relative contribution of the proteolytic domain and the receptor-binding domain of urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) toward its mitogenic properties we studied the effects of different uPA isoforms on migration and proliferation of human aortic smooth muscle cells (hSMC). The isoforms tested included native human glycosylated uPA, and two recombinant uPA forms, namely a recombinant uPA with wild type structure (r-uPA), and a uPA-mutant in which the first 24 N-terminal amino acid residues of the receptor binding domain were replaced by 13 foreign amino acid residues (r-uPAmut). Cell migration was evaluated using a micro-Boyden chamber assay, and cell proliferation assessed by measurement of [3H]-thymidine incorporation into DNA. Competition binding studies on hSMC using 125I-r-uPA as ligand demonstrated that r-uPA and r-uPAmut exhibited equivalent displacement profiles. However, migration of hSMC was promoted by r-uPA and not by r-uPAmut. r-uPA-induced migration occurred at concentrations (half-maximally effective concentration of 2 nM) approximating the Kd for uPA-uPAR binding (1 nM). r-uPA-induced migration was not affected by the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin. In contrast to their differential chemotactic properties, uPA, r-uPA and r-uPAmut, which possess similar proteolytic activities, all stimulated [3H]-thymidine incorporation in hSMC. Since the [3H]-thymidine incorporation response to each isoform occurred at concentrations (> 50 nM) much higher than necessary for uPAR saturation by ligand (1 nM), this mitogenic response may be independent of binding to uPAR. [3H]-thymidine incorporation responses to r-uPA and -uPAmut were sensitive to the plasmin inhibitor aprotinin, and uPA stimulated DNA synthesis was inhibited by plasminogen activator inhibitor. We conclude that hSMC migration in response to uPA depends upon on its binding to uPAR, whereas uPA-stimulated DNA synthesis in these cells requires proteolysis and plasmin generation.
Direct inhibitory effects of simvastatin on matrix accumulation in cultured murine mesangial cells.	3-Hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase inhibitors have been demonstrated to suppress glomerular injuries in various renal diseases. These agents inhibit in vitro proliferation of several cell types, including mesangial cells. This effect indicates the ability to ameliorate mesangioproliferative lesions, independent of the improvement of hypercholesterolemia. On the other hand, it is not clear whether HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors directly regulate extracellular matrix (ECM) accumulation from mesangial cells.
Antigen-driven lymphocyte recruitment to the lung is diminished in the absence of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) receptor, but is independent of uPA.	The requirement for urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) and uPA receptor (uPAR) in T lymphocyte migration is unknown. uPA(-/-) mice have fewer pulmonary lymphocytes in response to certain infections, but its unknown whether this is due to diminished recruitment. Primed, recipient mice were IT inoculated with Ag. Three days later, fluorescently labeled lymphoblasts from background-matched control wild-type (WT), uPA(-/-), or uPAR(-/-) donor mice were injected i.v., and their recruitment was determined. Approximately twice the number of uPA(-/-) compared with WT lymphoblasts were recruited to the lungs of WT recipients. This difference was eliminated when uPA(-/-) and WT lymphoblasts were injected into uPA(-/-) recipients. Thus, the reduced number of lung lymphocytes in infected uPA(-/-) mice is not due to reduced recruitment. However, uPAR is critically involved in recruitment. Markedly fewer uPAR(-/-) compared with WT lymphoblasts were recruited to the lung. These findings suggest that uPAR may be a novel target for immune modulation in T lymphocyte-mediated disorders.
Transforming growth factor-beta1 produced by ovarian cancer cell line HRA stimulates attachment and invasion through an up-regulation of plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 in human peritoneal mesothelial cells.	The processes of ovarian cancer dissemination are characterized by altered local proteolysis, cellular proliferation, cell attachment, and invasion, suggesting that the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) and its specific inhibitor (plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1 (PAI-1)) could be involved in the pathogenesis of peritoneal dissemination. We showed previously that expression of uPA and PAI-1 in the human ovarian cancer cell line HRA can be down-regulated by exogenous bikunin (bik), a Kunitz-type protease inhibitor, via suppression of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) up-regulation and that overexpression of the bik gene can specifically suppress the in vivo growth and peritoneal dissemination of HRA cells in an animal model. We hypothesize that the plasminogen activator system in mesothelial cells can be modulated by HRA cells. To test this hypothesis, we used complementary techniques in mesothelial cells to determine whether uPA and PAI-1 expression are altered by exposure to culture media conditioned by HRA cells. Here we show the following: 1) that expression of PAI-1, but not uPA, was markedly induced by culture media conditioned by wild-type HRA cells but not by bik transfected clones; 2) that by antibody neutralization the effect appeared to be mediated by HRA cell-derived TGF-beta1; 3) that exogenous TGF-beta1 specifically enhanced PAI-1 up-regulation at the mRNA and protein level in mesothelial cells in a time- and concentration-dependent manner, mainly through MAPK-dependent activation mechanism; and 4) that mesothelial cell-derived PAI-1 may promote tumor invasion possibly by enhancing cell-cell interaction. This represents a novel pathway by which tumor cells can regulate the plasminogen activator system-dependent cellular responses in mesothelial cells that may contribute to formation of peritoneal dissemination of ovarian cancer.
Serine proteases of the fibrinolysis pathway are not involved in lethal hepatitis and fibrinogen breakdown induced by tumor necrosis factor.	Tumor necrosis factor (TNF) plays a key role in several types of fulminant and acute hepatitis, and induces massive apoptosis and necrosis of hepatocytes. Our previous studies described the central role played by several matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and one or more unknown serine proteases. The aim of this study was to investigate the involvement of serine proteases of the fibrinolytic pathway, known to be activators of several MMPs, in TNF-induced hepatitis and fibrinogen (FG) breakdown. Experiments were performed in a model of TNF-induced hepatitis, consisting of administration of TNF in combination with D-(+)-galactosamine (GalN) to mice deficient in urokinase-type plasminogen (PG) activator (u-PA), tissue-type PG activator (t-PA) or PG. Lethality, transaminase release, increased plasma clotting time and FG levels were measured. In PA- and PG-deficient mice, TNF/GalN still induced hepatitis, as well as increased clotting time and FG breakdown. MMP-9 activation still occurred in the liver despite the lack of plasmin. The data suggest that the serine proteases involved in TNF-induced lethal hepatitis are no constituents of the fibrinolytic cascade.
Expression and regulation of plasminogen activators, plasminogen activator inhibitor type-1, and steroidogenic acute regulatory protein in the rhesus monkey corpus luteum.	The corpus luteum (CL) is a transient endocrine organ that secretes progesterone to support early pregnancy. Using primate materials obtained from rhesus monkeys, we have in this study investigated the expression and regulation of the plasminogen activators (PAs) and PA inhibitor type 1 (PAI-1) during CL development and regression. Adult (5-7 yr old) female rhesus monkeys were treated with pregnant mare serum gonadotropin/human chorionic gonadotropin to induce ovulation and follicular luteinization. At various luteal developmental stages, CL or whole ovaries were obtained for preparing luteal cells, Northern blot, in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemistry. We demonstrated that luteal cells from the rhesus monkey were able to produce both tissue type PA (tPA) and urokinase type PA, as well as the physiological PAI-1. During luteal development in the monkey, urokinase type PA was the major PA species taking part in the active angiogenesis and tissue remodeling processes in the forming CL. However, the mRNA as well as the enzymatic activity levels of tPA increased dramatically in monkey CL with the advent of luteolysis. This change of tPA levels was in a temporal coordination with the regulation of PAI-1 expression, resulting in an increased tPA activity at the initiation of luteolysis. Therefore, we suggest that tPA might be a luteolytic factor to the monkey CL. A PAI-1 modulated tPA activity might be important for the initiation of luteolysis in the monkey. In addition, we have also demonstrated that the expression of steroidogenic acute regulatory protein in the monkey CL was in accordance with the changes of progesterone production, suggesting that steroidogenic acute regulatory protein expression may be considered as a reliable marker for CL function in primates.
Cell- and gene-specific interactions between signal transduction pathways revealed by okadaic acid. Studies on the plasminogen activating system.	The potential contribution of serine/threonine-specific protein phosphatases in the transcriptional regulation of plasminogen activator and plasminogen activator inhibitor gene expression was explored in human HT-1080 fibrosarcoma and U-937 monocyte-like cells using okadaic acid, a potent and specific inhibitor of phosphatases 1 and 2A (PP1 and PP2A). In both cell types okadaic acid induced plasminogen activator type 2 (PAI-2) gene transcription and mRNA and potentiated induction mediated by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate and tumor necrosis factor. Okadaic acid-mediated induction of PAI-2 was inhibited by 8-bromo-cAMP in HT-1080 cells but not in U-937 cells. Okadaic acid had opposite effects on urokinase (u-PA) gene expression in the two cell lines; u-PA mRNA and gene transcription was suppressed in HT-1080 cells but transiently induced in U-937 cells. Tissue-type PA (t-PA) mRNA, although undetectable in U-937 cells, was also suppressed by okadaic acid in HT-1080 cells. This effect was selective, as constitutive and phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate-mediated expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 mRNA was not modulated by okadaic acid in either cell type. These results indicate that PP1 and PP2A protein phosphatases are involved in signal transduction pathways modulating PAI-2, u-PA, and t-PA, and furthermore, that okadaic acid interaction with the protein kinase C and A pathways are gene- and cell type-specific.
High expression vectors for the production of recombinant single-chain urinary plasminogen activator from Escherichia coli.	An expression cassette containing a synonymous gene for human single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (Rscu-PA) 5'-flanked by a trp promoter and the Shine-Dalgarno sequence of the xyl A operon of Bacillus subtilis and terminated by the terminators trp A and Tn10 was constructed and inserted into a pBR322 derivative to yield pBF160. When compared to pUK54 trp 207-1 containing the natural scu-PA gene without the Shine-Dalgarno sequence and terminator, the expression efficiency of pBF160 in Escherichia coli strains was improved by one order of magnitude. Replacement of the trp by the tac promoter (pBF171) did not affect expression. Inserting the Shine-Dalgarno sequence and Tn10 terminator into pUK54 trp 207-1 (pWH1320) slightly increased the expression level, whereas elimination of the Shine-Dalgarno sequence and the terminators from pBF160 with almost complete conservation of the synonymous structural gene (pBF191) significantly reduced the expression. Variation of the distance between the Shine-Dalgarno sequence and the start codon between 8 and 10 bp (pBF163) proved irrelevant. In conclusion, poor expression of mammalian genes in E. coli may result from both improperly designed regulatory elements and structural features of the coding region and therefore de-novo synthesis of the gene may be required to obtain satisfactory expression.
Differential expression of MMP and uPA systems and prognostic relevance of their expression in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.	Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) is critical for carcinoma progression. In our study, we evaluated the prognostic significance of the major MMP family such as MMP-3, MMP-9, MMP-11 and MT1-MMP at the mRNA in 44 esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) that were previously characterized for MMP-7, MMP-1 and MMP-2, and their relation to urokinase system (uPA and uPAR). MT1-MMP, MMP-11 and MMP-2 expressions are closely associated with each other, while MMP-9 and uPAR expressions are inversely associated with the former group. There is no MMP related to clinicopathological factors; however, patients with high MT1-MMP could show worse prognosis, as compared to those with low MT1-MMP expression (p=0.01), as well as MMP-11 did (p=0.02). Both MMP showed clear expression of carcinoma cells by immunohistochemistry. In patients with high MT1-MMP, recurrence was more prominent (23/26: 88.5%) than those with low MT1-MMP (7/18: 38.9%) (p=0.0016). In the 20 cases who died within 3 years, all 15 cases with high MT1-MMP showed initial recurrence of distant metastasis, and the other 5 cases with low MT1-MMP showed locoregional recurrence (p=0.000064). These results could indicate that there is a relevant mechanism of associated expression of clinically significant MMP and that among them, MT1-MMP plays the most critical role in ESCC progression.
Reductions in mRNA of the neuroprotective agent, neuroserpin, after cerebral ischemia/reperfusion in diabetic rats.	The aim of this study is to investigate disturbances in fibrinolytic components in diabetic rats with middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Comparison of cerebral injury at 23 h after reperfusion indicated that infarction volumes were increased in diabetic rats as compared with normal rats. Cerebral ischemia/reperfusion in normal and diabetic rats was accompanied by increased expression of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA), urokinase plasminogen activator (u-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) and neuroserpin (NSP) mRNA after reperfusion. Most importantly, the expression of NSP mRNA, but not t-PA, u-PA and PAI-1 mRNA, was reduced to undetectable levels at 11 and 23 h after reperfusion in diabetic rats as compared with normal rats. Although activity of PA (t-PA and u-PA) and the ratio of PA/PAI were increased at 5 h after reperfusion in both ischemic brains of diabetic and normal rats, the levels in diabetic rats were lower than that in normal rats. We speculate that the exacerbation of ischemic injury in diabetic rats may be related to the reduction of fibrinolytic component and the neuroprotective role of NSP. Further study of the efficacy of NSP in the pathogenesis and treatment of cerebral ischemia may provide novel insights.
Biochemical properties of recombinant single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator mutants with deletion of Asn2 through Phe157 and/or substitution of Cys279 with Ala.	The contribution of the NH2-terminal polypeptide chain and of the Cys148-Cys279 interchain disulphide bond to the enzyme activity of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) was studied using site-specific mutagenesis. Recombinant single-chain u-PA (rscu-PA) variants were produced by transfecting Chinese hamster ovary cells with cDNA encoding des(Asn2-Phe157)rscu-PA (rscu-PA with deletion of Asn2-Phe157), [Ala279]rscu-PA (rscu-PA with Cys279----Ala mutation) or des(Asn2-Phe157)[Ala279]rscu-PA [des(Asn2-Phe157)rscu-PA with Cys279----Ala mutation]. Des(Asn2-Phe157)rscu-PA, [Ala279]rscu-PA and des(Asn2-Phe157)[Ala279]rscu-PA, purified from conditioned cell culture medium, were obtained as nearly homogeneous single-chain molecules with Mr approximately 30,000, 54,000 and 30,000, and specific fibrinolytic activities on fibrin plates of (mean +/- SD; n = 3) 860 +/- 150 IU/mg, 43.0 +/- 2.5 IU/micrograms and 240 +/- 20 IU/mg, respectively, compared to 69.0 +/- 4.3 IU/micrograms for wild-type rscu-PA obtained in the same expression system. The plasminogen activating potential in a buffer milieu of [Ala279]rscu-PA was somewhat lower than that of rscu-PA, but that of both deletion mutants was virtually abolished. In a human plasma milieu in vitro, consisting of a radiolabelled human plasma clot submerged in plasma, 50% clot lysis in 2 h required 6.5 micrograms/ml [Ala279]rscu-PA or 3.4 micrograms/ml rscu-PA, whereas with both deletion mutants no significant clot lysis was observed with up to 16 micrograms/ml. Treatment of [Ala279]rscu-PA or rscu-PA with plasmin resulted in quantitative conversion to two-chain molecules and was associated with an increase in specific amidolytic activity from about 600 IU/mg to 62.5 IU/micrograms for [Ala279]rscu-PA as compared to an increase from about 0.3 IU/micrograms to 75.0 IU/micrograms for rscu-PA. In contrast, no significant amidolytic activity could be generated by treatment of des(Asn2-Phe157)rscu-PA or des(Asn2-Phe157)[Ala279]rscu-PA with plasmin. The u-PA B-chain, isolated from plasmin-treated [Ala279]rscu-PA, had enzymic properties which were comparable to those of rtcu-PA, with respect to specific fibrinolytic activity, amidolytic activity, kinetics of plasminogen activation and clot-lysis activity in a human plasma milieu in vitro. Following bolus injection into hamsters, the plasma clearances were comparable (0.7-1.1 ml/min) for wild-type rscu-PA and for the three truncated rscu-PA mutants.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Expression of urokinase plasminogen activator, its receptor and type-1 inhibitor in malignant and benign prostate tissue.	The plasminogen activation (PA) cascade participates in degradation of extracellular matrix during cancer invasion. We have studied the expression of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) mRNA, uPA receptor (uPAR) mRNA and immunoreactivity, and type-1 plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1) mRNA and immunoreactivity in 16 prostate adenocarcinomas and 9 benign prostate hyperplasias. uPA mRNA and uPAR mRNA expression were found in 9 and 8 of the adenocarcinomas, respectively, and in 7 and 6 of the benign hyperplasias, respectively. In both malignant and benign lesions, expression of these 2 mRNAs was predominantly seen in cells identified as macrophages, which in most of the carcinomas (approximately 90%) were located in the interstitial tissue between the tumor cell islands, while in most of the benign hyperplasias they were located in the lumen of the glands and were in only a few cases (approximately 30%) found in the interstitial tissue. uPAR immunoreactivity correlated with the mRNA expression and was, in addition, found in neutrophils. PAI-1 mRNA was detected in 13 of the 16 carcinomas and in 8 of the 9 benign hyperplasias, located in scattered fibroblast-like cells in both groups, in some vascular structures and in a few macrophages located in the interstitial tissue of both malignant and benign lesions. A similar expression pattern was found for PAI-1 immunoreactivity. In 8 of the 16 carcinomas, all 3 components were present, and in several areas colocalization was observed in stromal cells in close proximity to cancer cell islands. No immunoreactivity and/or mRNA expression of uPA, uPAR or PAI-1 was observed in cancer cells or in other epithelial cells in any of the cases.
Elevated amyloid beta protein (Abeta42) and late onset Alzheimer's disease are associated with single nucleotide polymorphisms in the urokinase-type plasminogen activator gene.	Plasma amyloid beta protein (Abeta42) levels and late onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) have been linked to the same region on chromosome 10q. The PLAU gene within this region encodes urokinase-type plasminogen activator, which converts plasminogen to plasmin. Abeta aggregates induce PLAU expression thereby increasing plasmin, which degrades both aggregated and non-aggregated forms of Abeta. We evaluated single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in PLAU for association with Abeta42 and LOAD. PLAU SNP compound genotypes composed of haplotype pairs showed significant association with AD in three independent case-control series. PLAU SNP haplotypes associated significantly with plasma Abeta42 in 10 extended LOAD families. One of the SNPs analyzed was a missense C/T polymorphism in exon 6 of PLAU (PLAU_1=rs2227564), which causes a proline to leucine change (P141L). We analyzed PLAU_1 for association with AD in six case-control series and 24 extended LOAD families. The CT and TT PLAU_1 genotypes showed association (P=0.05) with an overall estimated odds ratio of 1.2 (1.0-1.5). The CT and TT genotypes of PLAU_1 were also associated with significant age-dependent elevation of plasma Abeta42 in 24 extended LOAD families (P=0.0006). In knockout mice lacking the PLAU gene, plasma--but not brain--Abeta42 as well as Abeta40 was significantly elevated, also in an age-dependent manner. The PLAU_1 associations were independent of the associations we found among plasma Abeta42, LOAD and variants in the IDE or VR22 region. These results provide strong evidence that PLAU or a nearby gene is involved in the development of LOAD. PLAU_1 is a plausible pathogenic mutation that could act by increasing Abeta42, but additional biological experiments are required to show this definitively.
AlphaMUPA mice: a transgenic model for longevity induced by caloric restriction.	Caloric restriction (CR) is currently the only therapeutic intervention known to attenuate aging in mammals, but the underlying mechanisms of this phenomenon are still poorly understood. To get more insight into these mechanisms, we took advantage of the alphaMUPA transgenic mice that previously were reported to spontaneously eat less and live longer compared with their wild-type control mice. Currently, two transgenic lines that eat less are available, thus implicating the transgenic enzyme, i.e. the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), in causing the reduced appetite. This phenotypic change could have resulted from the ectopic transgenic expression that we detected in the adult alphaMUPA brain, or alternatively, from a transgenic interference in brain development. Here, we have summarized similarities and differences so far found between alphaMUPA and calorically restricted mice. Recently, we noted several changes in the alphaMUPA liver, at the mitochondrial and cellular level, which consistently pointed to an enhanced capacity to induce apoptosis. In addition, alphaMUPA mice showed a reduced level of serum IGF-1 and a reduced incidence of spontaneously occurring or carcinogen-induced tumors in several tissues. In contrast, alphaMUPA did not differ from wild type mice in the levels of low molecular weight antioxidants when compared in several tissues at a young or an old age. Overall, the alphaMUPA model suggests that fine-tuning of the threshold for apoptosis, possibly linked in part to modulation of serum IGF-1 and mitochondrial functions, could play a role in the attenuation of aging in calorically restricted mice.
Chronic infection with hepatitis B viruses and antiviral drug evaluation in uPA mice after liver repopulation with tupaia hepatocytes.	Transplantation of primary human hepatocytes and establishment of hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection in immunodeficient urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) transgenic mice was shown. However, the availability of usable primary human hepatocytes is very limited. Therefore, alternative and more accessible sources of hepatocytes permissive for HBV infection are highly desirable. Here we investigated the potential of primary hepatocytes from the tree shrew Tupaia belangeri that were shown to be susceptible to HBV infection.
The p38 SAPK pathway is required for Ha-ras induced in vitro invasion of NIH3T3 cells.	Constitutive activation of the ras oncoprotein plays a critical role in cancer invasion and metastasis. Particularly, ras-related protease expression such as the serine protease urokinase plasminogen activator (u-PA) has been implicated in mediating cancer cell invasion. Previous studies have shown that ras-mediated u-PA expression is regulated through the mitogen- (MAPK) and stress-activated protein kinase (SAPK) signal transduction pathways extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and c-Jun-activating kinase (JNK). We therefore asked the question, if ras-related cell invasion might additionally require the third MAPK/SAPK signal transduction cascade, p38. Indeed, we found that ras induces invasion based on the activation of certain p38 protein kinase isoforms, in particular, p38alpha. Moreover, ras activation through transient or stable expression of a Ha-rasEJ mutant induced the expression of u-PA. This was found to be a consequence of an increase of u-PA m-RNA, which was paralleled by only a modest activation of the u-PA promoter. In conclusion, we provide evidence for the requirement of a novel ras-p38alpha-u-PA pathway for ras-dependent cellular invasion.
Cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase controls basal gene activity and steroidogenesis in Y1 adrenal tumor cells.	Transfection of mouse Y1 adrenal tumor cells with DNA encoding mutant type I regulatory subunit generated stable transformants in which the basal activity of cAMP-dependent protein kinase was repressed. As expected, steroidogenesis in these kinase-deficient cells was no longer stimulated by corticotropin or cAMP analogues, and the expression of three cAMP-regulated genes (ornithine decarboxylase, urokinase-type plasminogen activator, and P450 side-chain cleavage) could no longer be induced. However, in addition to the loss of hormone responsiveness, the basal level of steroidogenesis and the constitutive expression of these cAMP-inducible genes was also repressed in kinase-defective mutant clones. To verify that functional cA-PK would revert this repressed phenotype, we transfected a cA-PK defective subclone of Y1 cells, Kin 8, with DNA encoding the C alpha and C beta subunits of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Basal levels of steroid production were restored to normal in stable transformants, and the elevation of kinase activity following induction of the C-subunit expression vectors elicited a steroidogenic response. Gene transcription was also shown to be regulated by either C alpha or C beta as measured by the induction of plasminogen activator and ornithine decarboxylase mRNA levels and transcription rates. The dominant role played by cAMP-dependent protein kinase in these adrenal cells was demonstrated by experiments showing the regulation of ornithine decarboxylase gene expression by protein kinase C requires basal cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity.
Lysophosphatidylcholine induces tPA gene expression through CRE-dependent mechanism.	Lysophosphatidylcholine (lysoPC) is implicated in the development of atherosclerosis and certain autoimmune diseases, and is reported to induce tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) at the protein level in endothelial cells. This study was designed to investigate the effect of lysoPC on tPA gene expression and the underlying molecular mechanisms in cultured endothelial cells. LysoPC transiently induced the mRNA expression of tPA in endothelial cells. LysoPC also induced the mRNA expression of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), uPA receptor, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, but the kinetics were different from that of tPA. Promoter analysis revealed that the cyclic AMP-responsive element of the tPA gene (tPACRE) is required for lysoPC-induced tPA expression. Furthermore, an electrophoresis mobility shift assay showed that lysoPC increased the binding activity of CRE binding protein to tPACRE. These results indicated that lysoPC transcriptionally upregulated the gene expression of tPA in endothelial cells, at least in part, via tPACRE activation.
Distribution of C-->T and T-->C polymorphisms of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator gene in children with type 1 diabetes mellitus and insulin resistance.	We analysed the distribution of genotypes and frequency of alleles of two polymorphisms in the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) gene: a C-->T substitution in exon 6 and a T-->C substitution in intron 7 in 89 children with type 1 diabetes mellitus and insulin resistance compared with 120 non-diabetic control subjects. All genotypes were determined by the allele-specific polymerase chain reaction. We found that the frequency of the T/T homozygote (15%) in the patient group was significantly (P<0.05) higher than in the controls (7%). There were no differences in the distribution of the T-->C polymorphism between patients and controls, which suggests that this genetic change is probably phenotypically silent. In conclusion, our results indicate that the higher percentage of T/T homozygotes in patients might be associated with T1DM coexisting with insulin resistance.
The structural basis of the poor fibrin specificity of urokinase(I)--knowledge-based prediction of kringle structures of urokinase and its related proteins.	The Kringle-1 structure of plasminogen (PGK-1), the Kringle-2 structure of tissue plasminogen activator (PAK-2) and the Kringle structure of prourokinase (UKK) has been modeled on the basis of the three-dimensional structure of Kringle-1 of prothrombin (PTK-1) at 2.8 A resolution. The predicted three-dimensional structure of these Kringles shows that the binding site of PGK-1 is characterized by an apparent dipolar site, the polar parts of which are separated by a hydrophobic region. PAK-2 possesses the anionic center but has not a cationic binding center which might be provided by a guanidinium group from Arg-69 located adjacent to the Arg-71 position. UKK possesses neither the anionic binding center nor the cationic center which are probably the main reason for the poor fibrin specificity of urokinase.
Expression of interleukin 1-inducible genes and production of interleukin 1 by aging human fibroblasts.	The interleukin 1 (IL-1)-inducible mRNAs for plasminogen activator inhibitor type 2, manganese superoxide dismutase, and urokinase are overexpressed in old (greater than 70% of life-span completed) but not in young (less than 40% of life-span completed) human foreskin fibroblasts. Furthermore, the activity of this superoxide dismutase is greater in old than in young fibroblasts. IL-1 beta mRNA is detected by Northern blot analysis in old fibroblasts and its expression is further enhanced by a treatment with IL-1 alpha. IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta mRNAs are detected in old foreskin and lung fibroblasts by a sensitive reverse transcription-PCR assay. IL-1 mRNA is consistently expressed after fibroblasts have completed 85% of their in vitro life-span; an assay with specific antibodies shows that IL-1 alpha is present in these fibroblasts. Prolonged treatment with IL-1 receptor antagonist decreases the levels of IL-1 alpha and of IL-1 alpha and IL-1 beta mRNAs. This observation suggests that IL-1 receptor antagonist inhibits an autocrine loop responsible for IL-1 expression. IL-1 mRNA accumulates in young fibroblasts treated with cycloheximide, suggesting that it is transcribed but unstable in these cells; accumulation of IL-1 mRNA in old fibroblasts may be due at least in part to increased stability. IL-1 alpha stimulates DNA synthesis in young fibroblasts but has progressively less effect as the cells age in culture. These data indicate that IL-1 is "constitutively" produced by aging fibroblasts and that IL-1 induces the expression of specific proteins in these cells. The mechanism for this constitutive production of IL-1 is explored in this paper.
Relationship between matrix metalloproteinase-2 mRNA expression and clinicopathological and urokinase-type plasminogen activator system parameters and prognosis in human gastric cancer.	To investigate the relationship between matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2) mRNA expression and clinicopathologic and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) system parameter and prognosis in human gastric cancer.
High level expression of human proteins in murine hybridoma cells: induction by methotrexate in the absence of gene amplification.	We have developed an inducible system for high level expression of heterologous genes in murine hybridoma cells. The rapid induction by methotrexate (MTX) does not involve gene amplification and is controlled at the level of mRNA accumulation. Transfection was achieved by protoplast fusion with an expression vector containing the cDNA of interest and a marker gene encoding dihydrofolate reductase. The initial clones, selected at 100 nM MTX, produced high levels of the protein of interest and contained about 100-400 copies of the integrated plasmid DNA. They could adapt to a 100- to 1000-fold stepwise increase in MTX concentration in a few weeks, during which the expression of the gene of interest but not its copy number, increased several-fold. Furthermore, the induction is freely reversible. If cells were propagated in MTX-free media, the expression level decreased, but the cells could be reinduced to their original high level of expression by adding MTX back to the media. A several-fold increase in the mRNA levels of the dihydrofolate reductase and the gene of interest could be detected after induction for 18 h.
A functional polymorphism within plasminogen activator urokinase (PLAU) is associated with Alzheimer's disease.	A number of susceptibility loci for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been identified including a region on Chromosome 10q21-q22. Within this region the plasminogen activator urokinase gene (PLAU) was considered as a reasonable candidate from its functional implication in plasmin generation, a serine protease capable of degrading beta-Amyloid (Abeta) protein. We screened 56 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) around PLAU using 1751 individuals from four independent case-control samples (Munich, N=679; Bonn N=282; Brescia (Italy) N=219; Perth (Australia) N=557 and one discordant sib-pair sample (Munich N=622). In brain tissue samples of neuropathologically confirmed cases with AD (N=33) we analyzed plaque counts according to the risk allele. We identified that one functional exonic SNP (rs2227564) is associated with development of AD using the four independent case-control samples (Munich, P=0.02; Bonn, P=0.005; Brescia (Italy), P=0.001; Perth (Australia), P=0.03) and the discordant sib-pair sample (P=0.001). In brain tissue, from neuropathologically confirmed cases with AD, we identified significantly higher plaque counts in carriers of the risk allele (N=6; 60.3+/-16.9) compared with non-carriers (N=9; 26.3+/-8.8; P=0.007). This study provides compelling evidence of a genetic and functional involvement of a common PLAU variant into the pathogenesis of AD. Further functional investigations are warranted to elucidate the specific role of PLAU, respectively, PLAU variants in the metabolism of Abeta proteins.
Identification and classification of differentially expressed genes in non-small cell lung cancer by expression profiling on a global human 59.620-element oligonucleotide array.	Improvements in detection, treatment and prognosis for patients with non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) depend on the molecular understanding of tumor development and progression. Using Affymetrix GeneChips comprising 59,620 elements, we determined the gene expression profiles of 89 NSCLC and 15 normal lung samples. We found 187 (0.3%) genes, which are at least 2-fold overexpressed and 157 (0.3%) genes 2-fold less expressed in NSCLC compared with normal lung. Cell cycle regulation, cell adhesion and nucleotide metabolism were the major biological processes connected to a large proportion of genes up-regulated in NSCLC. Down-regulated genes were frequently involved in metabolic/catabolic processes and signal transduction. The expression of specific genes revealed reliable differentiation of tumor from normal lung tissues, as well as the classification of both NSCLC subtypes squamous cell carcinoma and adenocarcinoma. In this context, collagens (COL7, 17) and cytokeratins (CK6, 15, 17) are preferentially induced in squamous cell carcinoma, whereas several transcription factors (TTF1, DAT1, TF-2) are exclusively elevated in adenocarcinomas. Some gene products involved in the metastatic process [matrixmetalloproteinase 12 (MMP-12) and urokinase plasminogen activator alpha (uPA)] were found as prognostic markers for the recurrence free interval and survival. Particularly, the simultaneous use of the MMP-12 and uPA expression predicted relapse-free and global survival of the patients. Screening of NSCLC with a genome-wide array revealed diagnostic, prognostic and potential therapeutic targets that might be suitable for an individual risk profile by tumor specific arrays.
Reciprocal upregulation of urokinase plasminogen activator and its inhibitor, PAI-2, by Borrelia burgdorferi affects bacterial penetration and host-inflammatory response.	The mammalian plasminogen activation system (PAS) is a complex system involved in multiple physiological and pathological processes. Borrelia burgdorferi interacts with certain components of the PAS. Here we further investigate this interaction to determine its effect on bacterial dissemination and host cell migration in vitro. We show that stimulation of monocytic cells with B. burgdorferi induces the transient production and secretion of urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA), shortly followed by its physiological inhibitor, plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 (PAI-2). Mono Mac 6 (MM6) cells as well as peripheral blood monocytes enhanced transmigration of B. burgdorferi across a barrier coated with fibronectin mediated by uPA. Moreover, the induction of PAI-2 or the addition of recombinant PAI-2 did not have a significant effect on the uPA-potentiated transmigration of B. burgdorferi. In contrast, the induction of PAI-2 by B. burgdorferi resulted in significantly diminished invasion by monocytic cells across a reconstituted basement membrane (matrigel), which could be partially restored by treatment with purified uPA. These results show that the PAS plays a twofold role in the pathogenesis of B. burgdorferi infection, both by enhancing bacterial dissemination and by diminishing host-cell inflammatory migration.
Association of tagSNPs in the urokinase-plasminogen activator (PLAU) gene with Alzheimer's disease and associated quantitative traits.	The gene coding for urokinase-plasminogen activator (PLAU) is a strong biological and positional candidate gene for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previously some studies have examined the role of common variation in the PLAU gene with AD risk but the results have been inconsistent and this inconsistency could have been due to the use of relatively small sample sizes. In this study we evaluated the distribution of four tagSNPs (rs2227562 in intron 5, rs2227564 in exon 6, rs2227571 in intron 9, and rs4065 in 3'UTR) in the PLAU gene in a large case-control study consisting of up to 1,000 AD patients and 697 white control subjects. We examined the role of these tagSNPs with AD risk and quantitative traits of AD, including age-at-onset (AAO), disease duration, and mini-mental state examination (MMSE) scores. The 3'UTR SNP revealed modest significant association with risk (OR = 0.71, 95% CI: 0.53-0.95; P = 0.02), AAO (P = 0.036) and disease duration (P = 0.04) of AD. In addition, the intron 9 SNP also revealed a significant association with AAO (P = 0.01) and disease duration (P = 0.006). Our data on a large number of AD cases and controls suggest that genetic variation in PLAU may affect the risk and AAO of AD.
A cell-type specific and enhancer-dependent silencer in the regulation of the expression of the human urokinase plasminogen activator gene.	A transcriptional silencer has been identified in the 5' regulatory region of the human urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) gene. This region is able to block transcription from the human u-PA as well as the rabbit beta-globin promoters in a cell type specific and orientation independent way. The silencer is enhancer dependent and is active in two cell lines (HeLa and CV-1) which produce little if any uPA, but not in the high uPA producer PC3. Silencing activity and enhancer dependence can be separated: the silencing activity has been localized to the DNA fragment -660 to -536, while the enhancer dependence is located in the -536 to -308 fragment. The DNA sequence of the silencer region contains an element that closely resembles the TGF-beta responsive negative element TIE.
RNA interference against urokinase in hepatocellular carcinoma xenografts in nude mice.	The serine protease urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) is overexpressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and its expression level is inversely correlated with the patients' survival. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of vector-based RNA interference (RNAi) of u-PA on the growth of human HCC xenografts in nude mice in order to investigate the role of u-PA in human HCC. Our results showed that the subcutaneous injection of small interfering RNAs (siRNA) u-PA SKHep1C3 stable transfected cells (pS siRNA u-PA) led to a growth delay in xenograft development, compared to those generated from empty vector; the molecular characterization of nodules (carried out by PCR, RT-PCR and immunohistochemical analysis) revealed the presence of plasmid DNA, the u-PA gene expression knockdown, at both mRNA and protein levels, giving evidence of a long-term and target-specific inhibition by vector-based RNAi 11 weeks after cell inoculation. We further studied the effects of u-PA down modulation on extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins evaluating the expression and organization of fibronectin (FN; one of the main ECM proteins). Immunohistochemical and immunofluorescence analysis of FN revealed FN fibrils in pS siRNA u-PA xenografts and in pS siRNA u-PA cells, thus identifying the FN fibril organization as a downstream effect of u-PA knockdown in this system.
The development of cardiac fibrosis in low tissue factor mice is gender-dependent and is associated with differential regulation of urokinase plasminogen activator.	Tissue factor (TF) initiates the protease coagulation cascade in response to tissue injury. Homozygous deficiency of murine TF results in embryonic lethality, which is rescued by low-level expression of human TF. These low-TF mice have been shown to develop cardiac fibrosis. We tested the hypothesis that the development of cardiac fibrosis in low-TF mice results from dysregulated protease expression and is affected by gender. Mice were divided into the age groups 2-5, 6-12, 13-18 and 19+ weeks. Fibrosis was assessed by trichrome staining. Protease expression was measured in male and female mice by RT-PCR for mRNA and zymography, ELISA or immunoblot for protein. Urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) activity was determined by zymography and chromogenic substrate assay. A marked gender effect was noted for the development of fibrosis, with interstitial collagen deposition occurring from 9 weeks in male low-TF mice, but not until 19 weeks in low-TF females. This delayed onset in females was accompanied by delayed up-regulation of molecular markers of injury. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-3 and tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1 expression were up-regulated in the hearts of male low-TF mice from 6 to 12 weeks and in females from 19 weeks. MMP/TIMP dysregulation was not seen prior to cardiac fibrosis and did not appear to explain the gender differences. However, uPA expression and activity were down-regulated prior to cardiac fibrosis in low-TF females, but were up-regulated in age-matched males. This suggests that the down-regulation of uPA in female low-TF mice protects them from more severe cardiac fibrosis.
Urokinase induces ROS production in vascular smooth muscle cells.	Urokinase stimulates the production of superoxide radical in cultured aortal smooth muscle cells simultaneously with activation of the expression of NAD(F)H-oxidases nox1, nox4, and phox22. Antioxidant ebselen abolishes the stimulating effect of urokinase on smooth muscle cell proliferation. The data showed that urokinase can potentiate oxidative stress in the arterial wall and can play an important role in the development of adverse arterial remodeling.
Antiangiogenic activity of TZT-1027 (soblidotin) on chick chorioallantoic membrane and human umbilical vein endothelial cells.	TZT-1027 (Soblidotin), a microtubule-depolymerizing agent, has antivascular activity which disrupts newly formed tumor vasculature. In this study, it was investigated whether TZT-1027 has also antiangiogenic activity preventing neovascularization.
C1-inhibitor prevents non-specific plasminogen activation by a prourokinase mutant without impeding fibrin-specific fibrinolysis.	Prourokinase (prouPA) is unstable in plasma at therapeutic concentrations. A mutant form, M5, made more stable by reducing its intrinsic activity was therefore developed. Activation to two-chain M5 (tcM5) induced a higher catalytic activity than two-chain urokinase plasminogen activator (tcuPA), implicating an active site functional difference. Consistent with this, an unusual tcM5 complex with plasma C1-inhibitor was recently described in dog and human plasma. The effect of C1-inhibitor on fibrinolysis and fibrinogenolysis by M5 is the subject of this study.
Dural invasion of meningioma: a histological and immunohistochemical study.	Meningioma usually grows and expands into the brain, but invasion into the brain parenchyma is relatively rare. Meningioma arises from arachnoid cap cells, and infiltration into dura mater is the main growth pattern of meningiomas. However, little is known about the mechanism of meningioma invasion into the dura mater. In this study, seven specimens, including dural attachments, from seven cases of meningioma were used for immunohistochemical analysis. Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-1, -2, -9, urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), vascular endothelial growth factors (VEGF), flt-1, E-cadherin, estrogen receptor (EgR), progesterone receptor (PgR), and aquaporin (AQP)-1, -4 were used as primary antibodies. There were several patterns of meningioma invasion into the dura mater: papillary-shaped invasion with destruction of dural structure, infiltration along the fibers of the dura mater, and invasion of several tumor cell units with fibroblast infiltration. Strong immunostaining was obtained with MMP-1, followed by AQP-1 and uPA, within the invading tumor cells. Neovasculature and extravasated erythrocytes, which stained with AQP-1, were also occasionally observed around the invading tumor cells. Simpson grade II removal of meningiomas results in high recurrence rates, and the inhibition of meningioma growth via dural invasion will facilitate improved remission in many cases with meningioma. In this study, MMP-1, AQP-1, and uPA are considered to have some role in the dural infiltration of meningioma cells. The fact that AQP-1 was highly expressed at the dural attachment and invading front of meningioma may indicate that dural invasion of the meningioma may be facilitated by AQP-1-induced water flow and neovascularization.
Activation and proliferation signals in murine macrophages. Biochemical signals controlling the regulation of macrophage urokinase-type plasminogen activator activity by colony-stimulating factors and other agents.	Purified hematopoietic growth factors such as colony-stimulating factor-1 (CSF-1) or macrophage CSF, granulocyte-macrophage CSF, and interleukin-3 or multi-CSF, stimulate the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) activity of murine bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMM) and resident peritoneal macrophages. Granulocyte-CSF was inactive. The increases in BMM u-PA activity were inhibited by the glucocorticoid dexamethasone, and by agents that raise intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate levels, including prostaglandin E2 and cholera toxin. These changes in u-PA activity were paralleled by corresponding changes in u-PA mRNA levels. Evidence was obtained for protein kinase C and phospholipase C-mediated stimulation of BMM u-PA activity and mRNA levels; however, no evidence was found for an involvement of Na+/H+ exchange or Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity, Ca2+ fluxes, or pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins. Several findings point to a dissociation between macrophage u-PA expression and DNA synthesis.
Efficient renaturation and fibrinolytic properties of prourokinase and a deletion mutant expressed in Escherichia coli as inclusion bodies.	Prourokinase is a plasminogen activator of 411 amino acids which displays a clot-lysis activity through a fibrin-dependent mechanism, and which seems to be a promising agent for the treatment of acute myocardial infarction. The preparation of recombinant prourokinase in bacteria has been hampered by its insolubility and by difficulty in refolding the polypeptide chain. In this paper we describe the renaturation process of two recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli as inclusion bodies: prourokinase and a deletion derivative (delta 125-prourokinase) in which 125 amino acids of the N-terminal region have been removed. Deletion of this sequence brings to higher refolding yields and faster kinetics (first-order rate constant of renaturation of 0.57 h-1 for delta 125-prourokinase and 0.25 h-1 for prourokinase). Our process involves sequential steps of denaturation, reduction and controlled refolding of the polypeptide chain. When applied to pure, non-glycosylated and active prourokinase, it gives a refolding yield of about 80%, demonstrating the efficiency of the renaturation procedure. Lower yields (15% and 30%, respectively, for prourokinase and delta 125-prourokinase) were obtained when the same refolding protocol was applied to inclusion bodies from bacteria. After purification to homogeneity (as shown by HPLC and SDS/PAGE) specific activities were 160,000 and 250,000 IU/mg protein, respectively, for prourokinase and delta 125-prourokinase. As with prourokinase, the deletion mutant delta 125-prourokinase displays a zymogenic nature, being activated by plasmin to the active two-chain form; however, this mutant is approximately fourfold more resistant than prourokinase to plasmin activation, and consequently shows a different fibrinolytic profile.
Plasminogen activators are involved in the degradation of bone by osteoclasts.	Osteoclastic bone degradation depends on the activity of several proteolytic enzymes, in particular to those belonging to the classes of cysteine proteinases and matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs). Yet, several findings suggest that the two types of plasminogen activators (PA), the tissue- and urokinase-type PA (tPA and uPA, respectively) are also involved in this process. To investigate the involvement of these enzymes in osteoclast-mediated bone matrix digestion, we analyzed bone explants of mice that were deficient for both tPA and uPA and compared them to wild type mice. The number of osteoclasts as well as their ultrastructural appearance was similar for both genotypes. Next, calvarial and metatarsal bone explants were cultured for 6 or 24 h in the presence of selective inhibitors of cysteine proteinases or MMPs and the effect on osteoclast-mediated bone matrix degradation was assessed. Inhibition of the activity of cysteine proteinases in explants of control mice resulted in massive areas of non-digested demineralized bone matrix adjacent to the ruffled border of osteoclasts, an effect already maximal after 6 h. However, at that time point these demineralized areas were not observed in bone explants from uPA/tPA deficient mice. After prolonged culturing (24 h), a comparable amount of demineralized bone matrix adjacent to actively resorbing osteoclasts was observed in the two genotypes, suggesting that degradation was delayed in uPA/tPA deficient bones. The activity of cysteine proteinases as assessed in bone extracts, proved to be higher in extracts from uPA/tPA(-/-) bones. Immunolocalization of the integrin alpha(v)beta(3) of in vitro generated osteoclasts demonstrated a more diffuse labeling of osteoclasts derived from uPA/tPA(-/-) mice. Taken together, our data indicate that the PAs play a hitherto unrecognized role in osteoclast-mediated bone digestion. The present findings suggest that the PAs are involved in the initial steps of bone degradation, probably by a proper integrin-dependent attachment to bone.
Activation of human monocytes by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor: increased urokinase-type plasminogen activator activity.	Granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) raised the plasminogen activator (PA) activity of cultured human monocytes. This activity was characterized to be urokinase-PA (u-PA) by incubation with specific IgG and by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis zymography. Increased u-PA activity reflected GM-CSF-induction of u-PA mRNA levels. The stimulatory properties of GM-CSF for monocyte PA activity differed from those of interleukin-4, which induced monocyte tissue-type PA (t-PA) activity, and of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), which alone was not stimulatory but augmented lipopolysaccharide-induced t-PA activity. GM-CSF alone did not stimulate detectable monocyte t-PA activity but combined with IFN-gamma to promote this activity. Plasmin formation arising from GM-CSF-induced u-PA in monocytes may contribute to the matrix turnover involved in, eg, cell migration and inflammation, and may explain some of the pathology seen in GM-CSF transgenic mice.
Localization of urokinase-type plasminogen activator messenger RNA in the normal mouse by in situ hybridization.	The histological distribution of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) mRNA was analyzed in normal mouse tissue by in situ hybridization with anti-sense RNA transcribed from three different subclones of a mouse u-PA cDNA. Hybridization signal was found over a distinct fibroblast-like cell in the lamina propria of the gastrointestinal tract, over proximal, distal, and collecting tubules of the kidney, and over the epithelium of the bladder, ductus deferens, and epididymis. No hybridization signal was found over cells of the lung, pancreas, liver, adrenal, pituitary, cerebrum, hypothalamus, cerebellum, sciatic nerve, and striated muscle, nor over endothelial cells in any tissue investigated. The lack of u-PA mRNA in lung tissue was confirmed by Northern analysis and is in contrast to the high amounts of u-PA protein found in this tissue.
Oncostatin M stimulates urokinase-type plasminogen activator activity in human synovial fibroblasts.	Cytokine regulation of synovial cell function has been considered to be involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. Synoviocyte urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) expression may be relevant to the tissue remodelling, as well as to the cell migration and transformation occurring in rheumatoid joints. We report here that purified recombinant human oncostatin M (greater than or equal to approximately 0.2 U/ml = 1 pM) stimulated within six hr the u-PA activity of non-rheumatoid synovial fibroblast-like cells and raised their u-PA mRNA levels. Oncostatin M could augment PGE2 production and DNA synthesis in these cells; however, the increase in PGE2 was small compared with that caused by IL-1. Since oncostatin M is produced by immune cells, it may have a role in immune and inflammatory reactions by interacting with fibroblast populations, such as synoviocytes, in the manner described.
Effects of losartan on hepatic expression of nonphagocytic NADPH oxidase and fibrogenic genes in patients with chronic hepatitis C.	Angiotensin II promotes liver fibrogenesis by stimulating nonphagocytic NADPH oxidase (NOX)-induced oxidative stress. Angiotensin II type 1 (AT1) receptor blockers attenuate experimental liver fibrosis, yet their effects in human liver fibrosis are unknown. We investigated the effects of losartan on hepatic expression of fibrogenic, inflammatory, and NOX genes in patients with chronic hepatitis C (CHC). Fourteen patients with CHC and liver fibrosis received oral losartan (50 mg/day) for 18 mo. Liver biopsies were performed at baseline and after treatment. The degree of inflammation and fibrosis was evaluated by histological analysis (METAVIR). Collagen content was measured by morphometric quantification of Sirius red staining. Overall collagen content and fibrosis stage remained stable in the whole series, yet the fibrosis stage decreased in seven patients. Inflammatory activity improved in seven patients. The effect of losartan on hepatic expression of 31 profibrogenic and inflammatory genes and components of the NOX complex was assessed by quantitative PCR. Losartan treatment was associated with a significant decrease in the expression of several profibrogenic and NOX genes including procollagen alpha1(I) and alpha1(IV), urokinase-type plasminogen activator, metalloproteinase type 2, NOX activator 1 (NOXA-1) and organizer 1 (NOXO-1), and Rac-1. Losartan was well tolerated in all patients and was effective in attenuating the activity of the systemic renin-angiotensin system. No effects on serum liver tests or viral load were observed. We conclude that prolonged administration of losartan, an oral AT1 receptor blocker, is associated with downregulation of NOX components and fibrogenic genes in patients with CHC. Controlled studies are warranted to assess the effect of AT1 receptor blockers in chronic liver injury.
Persons with Quebec platelet disorder have a tandem duplication of PLAU, the urokinase plasminogen activator gene.	Quebec platelet disorder (QPD) is an autosomal dominant bleeding disorder linked to a region on chromosome 10 that includes PLAU, the urokinase plasminogen activator gene. QPD increases urokinase plasminogen activator mRNA levels, particularly during megakaryocyte differentiation, without altering expression of flanking genes. Because PLAU sequence changes were excluded as the cause of this bleeding disorder, we investigated whether the QPD mutation involved PLAU copy number variation. All 38 subjects with QPD had a direct tandem duplication of a 78-kb genomic segment that includes PLAU. This mutation was specific to QPD as it was not present in any unaffected family members (n = 114), unrelated French Canadians (n = 221), or other persons tested (n = 90). This new information on the genetic mutation will facilitate diagnostic testing for QPD and studies of its pathogenesis and prevalence. QPD is the first bleeding disorder to be associated with a gene duplication event and a PLAU mutation.
Urokinase-type plasminogen activator regulates neurodegeneration and neurogenesis but not vascular changes in the mouse hippocampus after status epilepticus.	Expression of urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) is increased after brain injury, suggesting that, like in cancer tissue, uPA plays roles in brain remodeling. Here we injured brain with intrahippocampal kainic acid (KA) injection in adult Wt and uPA-/- mice. At 20 days post-injury, uPA-/- mice had more severe loss of contralateral pyramidal (p<0.05) and hilar neurons (p<0.05) than Wt mice. The number of doublecortin (DCX)-positive newly born neurons was also reduced in uPA-/- mice as compared to Wt (p<0.01). No difference was observed in granule cell dispersion or distribution of DCX-positive neurons in the dentate gyrus. uPA deficiency did not affect the total length of hippocampal blood vessels or vessel density. No differences were observed in the severity of status epilepticus or consequent epilepsy between the genotypes. These data indicate that uPA deficiency can unfavorably modulate both delayed neurodegeneration and neurogenesis but has little effect on post-injury neuronal migration and vascular density. Our results favor the idea that elevated uPA during the post-injury phase is neuroprotective.
Fraxinus rhynchophylla ethanol extract attenuates carbon tetrachloride-induced liver fibrosis in rats via down-regulating the expressions of uPA, MMP-2, MMP-9 and TIMP-1.	To investigate the effect of Fraxinus rhynchophylla ethanol extract (FR(EtOH)) on liver fibrosis induced by carbon tetrachloride (CCl(4)) in rats.
A physiological function of inflammation-associated SerpinB2 is regulation of adaptive immunity.	SerpinB2 (plasminogen activator inhibitor-2) is widely described as an inhibitor of urokinase plasminogen activator; however, SerpinB2(-/-) mice show no detectable increase in urokinase plasminogen activator activity. In this study, we describe an unexpected immune phenotype in SerpinB2(-/-) mice. After immunization with OVA in CFA, SerpinB2(-/-) mice made approximately 6-fold more IgG2c and generated approximately 2.5-fold more OVA-specific IFN-gamma-secreting T cells than SerpinB2(+/+) littermate controls. In SerpinB2(+/+) mice, high inducible SerpinB2 expression was seen at the injection site and in macrophages low levels in draining lymph nodes and conventional dendritic cells, and no expression was seen in plasmacytoid dendritic, B, T, or NK cells. SerpinB2(-/-) macrophages promoted greater IFN-gamma secretion from wild-type T cells in vivo and in vitro and, when stimulated with anti-CD40/IFN-gamma or cultured with wild-type T cells in vitro, secreted more Th1-promoting cytokines than macrophages from littermate controls. Draining lymph node SerpinB2(-/-) myeloid APCs similarly secreted more Th1-promoting cytokines when cocultured with wild-type T cells. Regulation of Th1 responses thus appears to be a physiological function of inflammation-associated SerpinB2; an observation that may shed light on human inflammatory diseases like pre-eclampsia, lupus, asthma, scleroderma, and periodontitis, which are associated with SerpinB2 polymorphisms or dysregulated SerpinB2 expression.
Therapeutic efficacy of human hepatocyte transplantation in a SCID/uPA mouse model with inducible liver disease.	Severe Combined Immune Deficient (SCID)/Urokinase-type Plasminogen Activator (uPA) mice undergo liver failure and are useful hosts for the propagation of transplanted human hepatocytes (HH) which must compete with recipient-derived hepatocytes for replacement of the diseased liver parenchyma. While partial replacement by HH has proven useful for studies with Hepatitis C virus, complete replacement of SCID/uPA mouse liver by HH has never been achieved and limits the broader application of these mice for other areas of biomedical research. The herpes simplex virus type-1 thymidine kinase (HSVtk)/ganciclovir (GCV) system is a powerful tool for cell-specific ablation in transgenic animals. The aim of this study was to selectively eliminate murine-derived parenchymal liver cells from humanized SCID/uPA mouse liver in order to achieve mice with completely humanized liver parenchyma. Thus, we reproduced the HSVtk (vTK)/GCV system of hepatic failure in SCID/uPA mice.
-Catenin and NF-B cooperate to regulate the uPA/uPAR system in cancer cells.	Expression of the urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA) and urokinase plasminogen activator receptor (uPAR) has recently been shown to be directly regulated by the Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway in colon cancer cells, through -catenin binding to T-cell factor binding element motifs present in their gene promoters. In our study, we present evidence that inhibition of -catenin causes upregulation of uPA/uPAR gene expression enhancing invasive potential. Using MCF-7, MDA-MB-231 (breast cancer cells) and SW480 (colon cancer cells), we found that siRNA-mediated silencing of -catenin increased uPA, uPAR and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) expression at the mRNA and protein levels. This increase was responsible for the observed enhanced invasive capacity of MDA-MB-231 and SW480 cancer cells. In addition, -catenin stabilization and accumulation by lithium chloride treatment, a well-known inhibitor of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), or by -catenin/T-cell factor-4 expression vectors transfection led to a decrease in uPA, uPAR and PAI-1 mRNA expression in the studied cancer models. Treatment of -catenin siRNA-transfected cells with a specific inhibitor of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-B), SN50, significantly reduced enhancement of uPA, uPAR and PAI-1 expression and cancer cell invasion, observed in -catenin siRNA-transfected cells. Furthermore, -catenin siRNA-treated cells exhibited NF-B nuclear accumulation. These data suggest that -catenin regulates the uPA/uPAR system in cooperation with NF-B transcription factor, which constitutes a novel mechanism of regulation.
Expression and functional characterization of a recombinant targeted toxin with an uPA cleavable linker in Pichia pastoris.	A recombinant targeted toxin (Disintegrin-Conj-Mel) was developed that contained a disintegrin connected to cytotoxic melittin by a urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA)-cleavable linker. This recombinant targeted toxin was designed to target tumor cells expressing integrin v3. The fusion gene was expressed under the control of the promoter AOX1 in Pichia pastoris. Electrophoresis by SDS-PAGE and Western blotting assays of culture broth from a methanol-induced expression strain, demonstrated that an approximately 13 kDa fusion protein was secreted into the culture medium. The molecular weight was that calculated from the predicted amino acid sequence. After optimizing the growth and expression conditions of the transformant strain, about 160 mg/L of the recombinant protein was achieved. The recombinant protein was purified to more than 95% purity by SP Sepharose ion exchange chromatography and Sephadex G-75 gel filtration chromatography. The hemolysis bioactivity test revealed that the fusion had no hemolytic activity or cytotoxicity against uPA non-expressing 293 cells, but exerted dose-dependent inhibition on uPA-expressing A549 cell proliferation.
Tissue-type plasminogen activator depletion affects the nasal mucosa matrix reconstruction in allergic rhinitis mice.	The present study was designed to assess the function of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) expression in allergic rhinitis.
Quebec platelet disorder.	Quebec platelet disorder (QPD) is an autosomal dominant bleeding disorder associated with a unique gain-of-function defect in fibrinolysis. In the past 5 years, there have been important advances in the understanding of the pathogenesis of QPD, including its genetic cause, which is a copy number variation mutation of PLAU, the gene for urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA). QPD is the first bleeding disorder identified to be caused by a PLAU mutation and it is also the first bleeding disorder recognized to result from a gene copy number mutation. The molecular defect of QPD leads to marked overexpression of uPA during megakaryopoiesis, producing profibrinolytic platelets that contain active forms of uPA in their -granules. This article summarizes expert opinions on the features of QPD and recent advances in the understanding of its pathogenesis and genetic cause.
RhoB regulates uPAR signalling.	Urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) and its receptor, uPAR, play important roles in promoting cancer cell adhesion, migration and invasion. Rho GTPases are key coordinators of these processes; the Rho GTPase Rac1 has previously been implicated in uPA- and/or uPAR-induced migratory or morphological cell responses. We used RNAi to deplete 12 different Rho GTPases to screen for effects on uPA-stimulated migration, and found that depletion of RhoB significantly reduces uPA-induced migration and invasion of prostate carcinoma cells. RhoB depletion did not affect the expression or surface levels of uPAR but reduced the uPAR-induced increase in levels of several integrins and inhibited uPAR signalling to the actin regulator cofilin, the cell-adhesion signal-transduction adaptor molecule paxillin and the serine/threonine kinase Akt. uPAR rapidly activated RhoB and increased RhoB expression. RhoB depletion also reduced cell adhesion to and spreading on vitronectin, which is a uPAR ligand. This correlated with decreased association between integrins and uPAR and reduced integrin 1 activity. Our results indicate that RhoB is a key regulator of uPAR signalling in cell adhesion, migration and invasion.
Strong antiviral activity of the new l-hydroxycytidine derivative, l-Hyd4FC, in HBV-infected human chimeric uPA/SCID mice.	Suppression of viral replication with nucleoside/nucleotide inhibitors has been shown to greatly improve the outcome of chronic HBV infection. -l-nucleoside analogues, especially -l-deoxycytidine derivatives represent one of the most efficient groups of antiretroviral compounds. We recently described that hydroxylation of the amino group of these -l-deoxycytidine derivatives preserved their strong HBV inhibitory activity in vitro, but strongly reduced their cytotoxicity. From this new group of compounds we selected -l-2',3'-didehydro-2',3'-dideoxy-N(4)-hydroxy-5-fluorocytidine (l-Hyd4FC) for a first in vivo investigation. The aim of this study was to determine the antiviral activity of l-Hyd4FC in HBV-infected human liver chimeric urokinase plasminogen activator (uPA)/SCID mice.
Mesothelioma cell proliferation through autocrine activation of PDGF- receptor.	Growth factors play a critical role in proliferation for a variety of cancer cells. The present study was conducted to understand the signaling cascades underlying PDGF-D/PDGF- receptor-mediated proliferation of mesothelioma cells.
PKD2 and PKD3 promote prostate cancer cell invasion by modulating NF-B- and HDAC1-mediated expression and activation of uPA.	Although protein kinase D3 (PKD3) has been shown to contribute to prostate cancer cell growth and survival, the role of PKD in prostate cancer cell motility remains unclear. Here, we show that PKD2 and PKD3 promote nuclear factor kappa B (NF-B) signaling and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) expression/activation, which are crucial for prostate cancer cell invasion. Silencing of endogenous PKD2 and/or PKD3 markedly decreased prostate cancer cell migration and invasion, reduced uPA and uPA receptor (uPAR) expression and increased plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 (PAI-2) expression. These results were further substantiated by the finding that PKD2 and PKD3 promoted the activity of uPA and matrix metalloproteinase 9 (MMP9). Furthermore, depletion of PKD2 and/or PKD3 decreased the level of binding of the p65 subunit of NF-B to the promoter of the gene encoding uPA (PLAU), suppressing transcriptional activation of uPA. Endogenous PKD2 and PKD3 interacted with inhibitor of NF-B (IB) kinase  (IKK); PKD2 mainly regulated the phosphorylated IKK (pIKK)-phosphorylated IB (pIB)-IB degradation cascade, p65 nuclear translocation, and phosphorylation of Ser276 on p65, whereas PKD3 was responsible for the phosphorylation of Ser536 on p65. Conversely, inhibition of uPA transactivation by PKD3 silencing was rescued by constitutive Ser536 p65 phosphorylation, and reduced tumor cell invasion resulting from PKD2 or PKD3 silencing was rescued by ectopic expression of p65. Interestingly, PKD3 interacted with histone deacetylase 1 (HDAC1), suppressing HDAC1 expression and decreasing its binding to the uPA promoter. Moreover, depletion of HDAC1 resulted in recovery of uPA transactivation in PKD3-knockdown cells. Taken together, these data suggest that PKD2 and PKD3 coordinate to promote prostate cancer cell invasion through p65 NF-B- and HDAC1-mediated expression and activation of uPA.
In vivo and in vitro expression of the plasminogen activators and urokinase type plasminogen activator receptor (u-PAR) in the pig oviduct.	Plasminogen activator activities have previously been reported in oviductal fluid. At present the question was whether the source of these activities is molecules come from blood plasma or if these activators are synthesized by the oviduct. Gene expression and protein synthesis of urokinase type (u-PA) and tissue type (t-PA) occur in different regions of the pig oviduct. Their relative concentrations do not vary between the ampulla and isthmus regions and are similar throughout the estrous cycle. However, while relative amounts of t-PA mRNA were not different between the different stages of the estrous cycle, u-PA mRNA was greater after ovulation (P<0.05). Regarding the function of u-PA, its receptor (u-PAR) was distinguished by immunohistochemistry at the apical region of the epithelial cells and was more noticeable in the isthmus. Expression of u-PA, t-PA, u-PAR and PAI-1 genes in primary oviductal epithelial cell cultures was studied under 17--estradiol (100 pg/ml) and progesterone (100 ng/ml). u-PA mRNA increased in the presence of progesterone (P<0.05), but not by action of 17--estradiol. t-PA, PAI-1 and u-PAR were similar when cultured with the hormones. These results suggest that u-PA could be regulated by progesterone at a transcriptional level, by the balance of their activity for PAI-1 or at the epithelial surface through the binding of u-PAR. In conclusion, plasminogen activation system components might cooperate in the oviductal lumen to control plasmin generation.
Semaphorin 5A promotes gastric cancer invasion/metastasis via urokinase-type plasminogen activator/phosphoinositide 3-kinase/protein kinase B.	Semaphorin 5A, a member of the semaphorin family, was originally identified as an axonal guidance factor functioning during neuronal development. Previously, we showed that the expression of semaphorin 5A might contribute to the metastasis of gastric cancer. However, less information is currently available as to the involvement of uPA in the semaphorin 5A-induced metastasis and invasion of gastric cancer cells.
Meta-analysis of the association between urokinase-plasminogen activator gene rs2227564 polymorphism and Alzheimer's disease.	The association between urokinase-plasminogen activator (PLAU) gene rs2227564 polymorphism and Alzheimer's disease (AD) risk has been widely reported across different ethnic populations, with inconsistent results. Thus, we performed a meta-analysis to assess the association between PLAU rs2227564 polymorphism and AD risk.
Mechanisms of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus-induced acute lung injury.	Systems biology offers considerable promise in uncovering novel pathways by which viruses and other microbial pathogens interact with host signaling and expression networks to mediate disease severity. In this study, we have developed an unbiased modeling approach to identify new pathways and network connections mediating acute lung injury, using severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) as a model pathogen. We utilized a time course of matched virologic, pathological, and transcriptomic data within a novel methodological framework that can detect pathway enrichment among key highly connected network genes. This unbiased approach produced a high-priority list of 4 genes in one pathway out of over 3,500 genes that were differentially expressed following SARS-CoV infection. With these data, we predicted that the urokinase and other wound repair pathways would regulate lethal versus sublethal disease following SARS-CoV infection in mice. We validated the importance of the urokinase pathway for SARS-CoV disease severity using genetically defined knockout mice, proteomic correlates of pathway activation, and pathological disease severity. The results of these studies demonstrate that a fine balance exists between host coagulation and fibrinolysin pathways regulating pathological disease outcomes, including diffuse alveolar damage and acute lung injury, following infection with highly pathogenic respiratory viruses, such as SARS-CoV.
Antimetastatic effects of -carotene and possible mechanisms of action in human hepatocarcinoma SK-Hep-1 cells.	In vitro evidence suggests that -carotene (AC) is an antimetastatic agent against cancer cells, but the mechanistic action is unclear. This study investigated the antimetastatic effect and possible mechanism of AC in comparison with -carotene (BC) using human hepatocarcinoma SK-Hep-1 cells. Results reveal that treatment with AC (0.5-2.5 M) for 48 h significantly inhibited invasion, migration, and adhesion of SK-Hep-1 cells in a concentration-dependent manner. These effects of AC were stronger than those of BC at the same concentration (2.5 M). Mechanistically, AC significantly decreased activities of urokinase plasminogen activator and matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-2 and -9, but increased protein expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, tissue inhibitor of MMP (TIMP)-1 and -2, and nm23-H1, an antimetastatic protein. AC also attenuated focal adhesion kinase-mediated phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase family resulting in decreased protein expression of Rho and Rac 1. Overall, these data suggest that AC has potential as an antimetastatic agent. 
CXCL12-CXCR4 promotes proliferation and invasion of pancreatic cancer cells.	CXCL12 exerts a wide variety of chemotactic effects on cells. Evidence indicates that CXCL12, in conjunction with its receptor, CXCR4, promotes invasion and metastasis of tumor cells. Our objective was to explore whether the CXCL12-CXCR4 biological axis might influence biological behavior of pancreatic cancer cells.
Correlation between the overexpression of urokinase receptor isoform uPAR (D1D2) and hepatic cell malignant transformation.	In order to provide an abundant source of specimen and to reveal the correlation between the overexpression of urokinase plasminogen activator receptor isoform uPAR (D1D2) and hepatic cell malignant transformation, the optimal liver cell culture method was selected from three cell culture methods to culture and separate out liver cells with a high density, high purity and high activity. The specimens were used to culture and assess the uPAR (D1D2) mRNA level in normal liver cells, liver cancer cells and para-carcinoma cells. In the present study, the correlation between the overexpression of uPAR (D1D2) and hepatic cell malignant transformation was discussed. When comparing the tissue block adherent method, liver cell grinding method and pancreatic enzyme digestion method, the liver tissue adherent method was found to be economical, simple and overall the optimal method for liver cell culture. This was used as a reference standard for cell culture. RT-PCR was used to determine isoform uPAR (D1D2) mRNA level in normal liver cells, para-carcinoma cells and liver cancer cells. The comparison of uPAR (D1D2) mRNA levels in normal liver cells, para-carcinoma cells and liver cancer cells, demonstrated that the brightness of the cells clearly increased in normal liver cells, para-carcinoma cells and liver cancer cells. The comparison of the cell grey values of three groups demonstrated a statistically significant difference (P<0.05). The liver tissue adherent method was able to produce liver cells with a high density, high purity and high activity, providing a sufficient source of specimen for our subsequent experiments. The electrophoresis results showed that: uPAR (D1D2) mRNA expression increased from normal liver cells to para-carcinoma cells to liver cancer cells, inferring that uPAR (D1D2) mRNA overexpression may be the result of changes in the conformation of the uPAR isoform. In addition, it is closely associated with abnormal cell signal transduction, which leads to clonal proliferation and abnormal differentiation of liver cells with malignant transformation in liver cells.
Production in eukaryotic cells and characterization of four hybrids of tissue-type and urokinase-type plasminogen activators.	To investigate the structure-function relationship in tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA), four hybrid sequences were amplified and overexpressed in a mouse myeloma cell line. The following constructs were made starting from cDNA encoding human t-PA and u-PA: (i) a hybrid in which amino acids (AA) 1-262 of the A-chain of t-PA is fused to AA 139-411 of the B-chain of u-PA; (ii) a hybrid in which the kringle 2 region of t-PA (AA 173-262) is inserted between amino acids 130 and 139 of u-PA; (iii) hybrid #2 having amino acids 1 to 10 deleted and replaced by the finger region of t-PA (AA 1-50); and (iv) a chimera in which the finger region of t-PA is followed by amino acids 10-411 of u-PA and where the lysine residues at positions 135 and 136 of u-PA are replaced by glutamines. These four hybrids were efficiently secreted into the culture medium as single-chain polypeptides of the expected molecular weights and had fully functional catalytic activity. Replacement of the A-chain of u-PA by that of t-PA leads to increased fibrin binding, whereas additions of finger and kringle domains do not. These data suggest that structural domains in serine proteases may not fold and/or function autonomously.
Chromosomal assignments of genes for tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase in mouse.	The genes encoding the two plasminogen activators, tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase, were mapped to mouse chromosomes using probes derived from the respective mouse cDNAs. DNA from mouse-Chinese hamster and mouse-rat somatic cell hybrids was digested with BamHI and EcoRI, respectively, and analyzed by Southern blot hybridization for the segregation of the two genes. Tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase cosegregated with mouse chromosomes 8 and 14, respectively. The plasminogen activator genes thus fall into two syntenic groups that are conserved in human and mouse.
Human tissue-type plasminogen activator gene located near chromosomal breakpoint in myeloproliferative disorder.	Plasminogen activators (PA) convert the inactive proenzyme plasminogen into plasmin, which is involved in the process of fibrinolysis, tissue remodeling, and cell migration. There are two distinct forms of PA: urokinase (u-PA) and tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA). t-PA has higher affinity for fibrin and is the main form involved in thrombolysis. By in situ chromosomal hybridization and Southern blot analysis of somatic cell hybrid DNA, we have assigned the human t-PA gene to chromosome 8, bands 8p12----q11.2. We have detected a common EcoRI restriction fragment length polymorphism within the t-PA gene that thus provides a precisely localized highly informative marker for genetic linkage studies. The t-PA gene localization coincides with a translocation breakpoint observed in myeloproliferative disorders. Whereas leukemic cells usually secrete both types of PA, a correlation exists between acute myeloid leukemic cells that release only t-PA and failure to respond to chemotherapy.
Artificial exon shuffling between tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and urokinase (u-PA): a comparative study on the fibrinolytic properties of t-PA/u-PA hybrid proteins.	We constructed two human tissue-type plasminogen activator/urokinase (t-PA/u-PA) hybrid cDNAs which were expressed by transfection of mouse Ltk- cells. The properties of the secreted proteins were compared with those of recombinant t-PA (rt-PA) and high molecular weight (HMW) u-PA. The hybrid proteins each contain the amino-terminal fibrin-binding chain of t-PA fused to the carboxy-terminal serine protease moiety of u-PA but differ by a stretch of 13 amino acid residues between kringle 2 of t-PA and the plasmin cleavage site of u-PA. Hybrid protein rt-PA/u-PA I contains amino acids 1-262 of t-PA connected with amino acids 147-411 of u-PA, whereas hybrid protein rt-PA/u-PA II consists of the same t-PA segment and residues 134-411 of u-PA. We demonstrated fibrin binding for rt-PA, whereas the hybrid proteins bind to a lesser extent and HMW u-PA has no affinity for fibrin. Plasminogen activation by either one of the hybrid proteins in the absence of a fibrin substitute was similar to that by HMW u-PA, while rt-PA was much less active. The catalytic efficiency, in the presence of a fibrin substitute, increases more than 2000-fold for rt-PA, about 250-fold for hybrid proteins I and II, and 12-fold for HMW u-PA, respectively. Under these conditions the hybrid proteins are more efficient plasminogen activators than the parental ones. The hybrid molecules form a 1:1 molar complex with the human endothelial plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1), analogous to that formed by rt-PA and HMW u-PA. The relative affinity of rt-PA for PAI-1 is 4.6-fold higher than that of HMW u-PA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
mRNA for the plasminogen activator of the urokinase type: translation in oocytes of Xenopus laevis]	Poly(A)+-RNA from human kidney and human embryonal lung fibroblasts fractionated by sucrose gradient centrifugation was translated in Xenopus oocytes. Assay for plasminogen-dependent fibrinolytic activity detected synthesis of secreted plasminogen activator and revealed the active fraction of poly(A)+-RNA with a sedimentation coefficient of approximately 23S. Translation products of the active fraction were immunoadsorbed by antiurokinase monoclonal antibodies immobilized on sepharose. Gel electrophoretic analysis of the protein products showed that the 23S fraction of poly(A)+-RNA from human kidney contains mRNA for single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator with apparent molecular weight of approximately 50 kDa.
Expression of c-ets-1, collagenase 1, and urokinase-type plasminogen activator genes in lung carcinomas.	The c-ets-1 transcription factor has been involved in the in vitro transactivation of matrix-degrading protease genes that might play an important role in tumor invasion. Using in situ hybridization, we analyzed serial frozen sections for c-ets-1, collagenase 1, and urokinase-type plasminogen activator gene expression in 54 lung carcinomas including 34 non-neuroendocrine carcinomas (18 squamous carcinomas, 10 adenocarcinomas, 3 large cell carcinomas, and 3 basaloids) and 20 neuroendocrine carcinomas (7 small cell lung carcinomas, 4 large cell neuroendocrine carcinomas, 4 well differentiated neuroendocrine carcinomas, and 5 carcinoids). c-ets-1 gene was expressed in stromal cells in 44/54 lung carcinomas including one metastasizing carcinoid. c-ets-1 transcripts were also detected in cancer cells more frequently in neuroendocrine than in non-neuroendocrine carcinomas (P = 0.0059) and in stages III and IV and metastasis more frequently than in stages I and II ( P = 0.0065). Collagenase 1 gene was expressed in 16/34 non-neuroendocrine tumors and in 1/20 neuroendocrine tumors, either in stromal (12/17) or in cancer cells (6/17). Urokinase-type plasminogen activator mRNAs were expressed in 45/54 lung carcinomas in stromal and/or cancer cells. In non-neuroendocrine tumors, c-ets-1 and collagenase 1 gene expressions in stromal cells were correlated. These results demonstrate that the transcription factor c-ets-1, collagenase 1, and urokinase-type plasminogen activator are involved in lung cancer invasion and suggest that c-ets-1 protein might transactivate collagenase 1 gene during tumor invasion.
Prostaglandin E2 regulates production of plasminogen activator isoenzymes, urokinase receptor, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in primary cultures of rat calvarial osteoblasts.	The bone resorbing agent, prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), was found to alter several components of the plasminogen activator (PA)/plasmin pathway in primary cultures of rat neonatal osteoblast-like cells. The mRNA and activities of both urokinase-type PA (uPA) and tissue-type PA (tPA) were enhanced by PGE2 treatment. The presence of mRNA for the uPA receptor (uPAR) has been demonstrated in these cells and steady-state levels shown to be greatly enhanced, the response being rapid and sustained for at least 24 hours. mRNA for plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) was modulated in a biphasic manner, with inhibition of the constitutive level apparent at 4 hours of treatment and stimulation apparent at 12 hours and longer, while PAI-1 protein, measured by an ELISA assay for rat PAI-1, was diminished over this period. Neither PAI-2 mRNA nor mRNA for the broad spectrum protease inhibitor, protease nexin-1 (PN-1), was found to be modulated by PGE2. Therefore, PGE2 is likely to stimulate cell surface proteolytic activity, since uPA mRNA and cell-associated activity were elevated, as was mRNA for the cellular receptor for uPA. Although it was not possible to measure uPAR number and affinity it seems likely that elevated uPAR mRNA would translate into increased uPARs which would localize the increased uPA activity to the pericellular region. tPA mRNA and activity were also increased transiently with the activity inhibited with prolonged incubations, apparently by PAI-1. Elevation of tPA mRNA and activity may result in elevated activity within the extracellular matrix as tPA has been reported to associate with several matrix proteins. Thus the early effect of PGE2 would be to promote proteolysis, both pericellularly and in the extracellular matrix. The inhibition of PAI-1 mRNA and protein, which would contribute to the elevation of activity, is due to PGE2, but the later stimulatory effect on PAI-1 mRNA may be due to feedback regulation by transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta), secreted by osteoblasts and activated by elevated levels of PA.
Increased urokinase receptor levels in human gastrointestinal neoplasia and related liver metastases.	Human carcinomas of the oesophagus, stomach, colorectum, and their liver metastases were previously shown to have increased levels of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA). The proteolytic activity of u-PA on the surface of tumour cells is thought to play a key role in invasion and metastasis of malignancies. Therefore, in this study we quantitatively determined the presence of specific u-PA receptors in human gastrointestinal carcinomas, premalignant colonic adenomas, liver metastases, and adjacent normal tissues. All carcinomas showed a 2- to 13-fold higher level of u-PA receptor than their corresponding normal tissues at both the antigen level (ELISA) and the mRNA level (Northern blotting). Colonic adenomas also showed enhanced levels of the u-PA receptor protein. The state of occupancy of the u-PA receptors was determined using a specific ligand-binding assay in which free u-PA receptors were cross-linked with 125I-u-PA and visualized by autoradiography. Colonic carcinomas and liver metastases contained higher levels of free u-PA receptor compared to their corresponding normal tissues. Acid treatment of the receptors prior to cross-linking did not enhance the u-PA/u-PA receptor complex formation. The free u-PA receptor levels in colonic adenomas and in oesophageal and stomach carcinomas showed less difference compared with their normal reference tissues. The increased presence of specific receptors for u-PA in gastrointestinal carcinomas, particularly primary colonic carcinomas and their metastatic lesions in the liver, emphasizes the involvement of the urokinase pathway of plasminogen activation in gastrointestinal carcinogenesis and renders it a putative target for clinical intervention.
High level expression of human prourokinase cDNA in Chinese hamster ovary cells.	We have used Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells to express high levels of human prourokinase gene cDNA with recourse to construction of good expression vector, the improvement of transfection technique and gene coamplification. First, we constructed expression plasmid pMG10102 by placing pro-UK cDNA under the control of SR alpha promoter/SV40 polyadenylation signals and expressed it transiently in COS-7 cells. Expression level was about 5 times higher than with SV40 early promoter. Linear plasmids pMG10102 and pSV2-dhfr were then cotransfected into CHO-dhfr cells by calcium phosphorate coprecipitation and cells were cultured in selective medium. Twenty transformants expressing pro-UK were picked, the range of expression levels was 12.5-100IU/10(6) cells/day. When subjected to stepwise selection of methotrexate (MTX), the stable cell lines were obtained that secreted up to 400-500IU/10(6) cells/day. Western blot analysis showed that molecular weight of secreted recombinant pro-UK was the same as that of natural pro-UK, which is 52 kDa, and more than 60% of expression production was single chain urokinase (rscUK) without protease inhibitor in medium.
Overexpression of urokinase-type plasminogen activator in transgenic mice is correlated with impaired learning.	Transgenic mice designated alpha MUPA overproduce in the brain murine urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA), an extracellular protease implicated in tissue remodeling. We have now localized, by in situ hybridization, extensive signal of uPA mRNA in the alpha MUPA cortex, hippocampus, and amygdala, sites that were not labeled in counterpart wild-type mice. Furthermore, biochemical measurements reveal a remarkably high level of enzymatic activity of uPA in the cortex and hippocampus of alpha MUPA compared with wild-type mice. We have used the alpha MUPA mice to examine whether the abnormal level of uPA in the cortex and the limbic system affects learning ability. We report that alpha MUPA mice perform poorly in tasks of spatial, olfactory, and taste-aversion learning, while displaying normal sensory and motor capabilities. Our results suggest that uPA is involved in neural processes subserving a variety of learning types.
LPS induces major changes in the extracellular proteolytic balance in the murine kidney.	Recent investigations have shown that in the murine kidney urokinase (uPA) and tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) are synthesized and released in urine by tubular epithelial cells, raising the possibility that plasminogen activators (PAs) may be involved in the maintenance of patency and fluidity in renal tubules. To further investigate the contribution of the PA system in renal pathology, we have determined the effects of LPS on the renal production of PAs: we localized PA-catalyzed proteolysis by zymographic analysis of tissue sections and studied the accumulation of mRNAs for PAs and their inhibitors (PAI-1 and PAI-2) by in situ hybridization. Both a single and two injections of LPS induced a dramatic reduction in urinary and renal uPA enzymatic activity; this decrease in catalytic activity was attributable to a reduction in uPA mRNA levels in both proximal and distal tubules. By contrast, we noticed a marked increase of tPA mRNA content in glomerular cells which was not accompanied by a concomitant increase in tPA-mediated proteolytic activity. In addition, a major up-regulation in PAI-1 mRNA levels was observed throughout the kidney, while PAI-2 mRNA was not detectable in the kidneys of control or LPS-injected animals. Our investigations document the profound alterations of the PA/PAI balance in renal tissue following in vivo LPS administration. They suggest that imbalanced extracellular proteolysis might participate in the alterations of kidney function observed in septic shock.
Expression of uPA and its receptor by both neoplastic and stromal cells during xenograft invasion.	Recent studies have shown that molecules involved in generation and regulation of extracellular proteolytic activity are often expressed by non-malignant stromal cells during human cancer invasion. We have studied the expression of the urokinase-type plasminogen activator and the urokinase-type plasminogen activator cell-surface receptor in xenografts of human MDA-MB-231 mammary carcinoma cells growing invasively in nude mice. Northern analysis showed the presence of both human and mouse urokinase-type plasminogen activator and urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor mRNA in tumor extracts. By in situ hybridization, mRNA for human urokinase-type plasminogen activator and its receptor was detected in virtually all the cancer cells, while mouse urokinase-type plasminogen activator and urokinase-type plasminogen activator receptor mRNA was expressed by tumor-infiltrating fibroblast-like and macrophage-like cells. In invasive areas the cells expressing the 2 murine mRNAs were either the same or located immediately adjacent to each other. This model system has several advantages for studies of the mechanism by which cancer cells induce or recruit stromal cells to produce molecules involved in proteolysis.
Androgen induction of urokinase gene expression in LNCaP cells is dependent on their interaction with the extracellular matrix.	Urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) plays a central role in tissue remodeling and cell invasion. In the present study, we examined the expression of uPA in the prostate cancer cell lines LNCaP, DU-145 and PC-3. In contrast to DU-145 and PC-3, the androgen-responsive cell line LNCaP does not express uPA. However, seeding LNCaP cells on fibronectin-coated plates stimulated a low level of uPA expression which was further induced upon exposure of the cells to dihydrotestosterone (DHT). Concomitant with the expression of uPA, an androgen-regulated expression of uPA receptor (uPAR) was induced. These results suggest that the interaction of LNCaP cells with the extracellular matrix plays a dominant role in the androgen control of uPA and uPAR gene expression.
Characterization of liver regeneration in the albumin-urokinase transgenic mouse]	Models of liver regeneration are essential to understand mechanisms of hepatic carcinogenesis, correct genetic diseases by gene transfer or hepatocyte transplantation. The expression in the liver of transgenic mice of a gene coding for a urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA mouse) induces hepatotoxicity and prolonged post-native liver regeneration from cellular clones which have inactivated the transgene. This model may have major applications but it remains necessary to characterize the liver regeneration pattern.
Temporal alterations in mRNA levels for proteinases and inhibitors and their potential regulators in the healing medial collateral ligament.	Wound healing in ligaments is a complex process which leads to functionally impaired scar tissue, even after extended time postinjury. To investigate the potential role of proteinases and inhibitors, as well as potential regulators of their expression, mRNA levels for collagenase, stromelysin, urokinase, PAI-1, and TIMPs 1 to 4 have been assessed by semiquantitative RT-PCR in RNA isolated from rabbit ligaments 3, 6, and 14 weeks postinjury. In addition, mRNA levels for IL-1, TNF, COX-2, and iNOS, potential regulators of proteinase/inhibitor expression, have been assessed. mRNA levels for the proteinases TIMP-1, -2, and -3 and PAI-1 were elevated early in scar tissue, but TIMP-4 mRNA levels exhibited a different pattern. In contrast, mRNA levels for the cytokines iNOS and COX-2 were either unchanged or depressed early after injury. The results indicate that alterations in mRNA levels for proteinases and inhibitors occurring early after injury are likely being influenced by factors other than IL-1, TNF, or products of COX-2 or iNOS.
Liver disease and compensatory growth: unexpected lessons from genetically altered mice.	Over the last decade, several animal models have been established that permit exploration of liver biology and disease. Although these models have been developed using diverse strategies, including transgene targeting, homozygous gene disruption and administration of hepatotoxic chemicals, each approach creates an animal with hepatocyte damage, resulting in an hepatic microenvironment that supports proliferation of healthy hepatocytes. These models have been used to demonstrate: (1) the remarkable ability of adult hepatocytes to clonally proliferate in response to liver growth signals, (2) the effectiveness of transplanted donor hepatocytes in repopulating damaged liver parenchyma, and (3) the feasibility of reconstituting liver with xenogeneic hepatocytes. This paper reviews the development and use of these models, and outlines their potential future application to the study of hepatic stem cells, therapy of liver disease and hepatic toxicology.
Advanced glycation endproducts inhibit prostacyclin production and induce plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 in human microvascular endothelial cells.	Several thrombogenic abnormalities are associated with diabetes. To investigate the underlying molecular mechanisms, we examined the effects of advanced glycation endproducts (AGE), non-enzymatically glycated protein derivatives, on the production of prostacyclin (PGI2), an anti-thrombogenic prostanoid, and of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1), a fast-acting serine protease inhibitor of fibrinolysis, in human microvascular endothelial cells (EC). Firstly, AGE-bovine serum albumin (BSA) but not non-glycated BSA, was found to considerably decrease the production of PGI2 to about two-thirds of the control value. Secondly, quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction showed that AGE-BSA increased the EC levels of mRNA coding for PAI-1, this being associated with a concomitant increase in the immunoreactive PAI-1 contents and the anti-fibrinolytic activity. Thirdly, the effects of AGE on PGI2 and PAI-1 syntheses in EC were found to be mediated by a receptor for AGE (RAGE) because antisense DNA against RAGE mRNA could reverse the AGE effects. Further, it was found that AGE decreased the intracellular cyclic AMP concentrations in EC and that cyclic AMP agonists such as dibutyryl cyclic AMP, forskolin and PGI2 analogue reduced the AGE-stimulated PAI-1 production, suggesting the involvement of cyclic AMP in the AGE-signalling pathway. The results thus suggest that AGE have the ability to cause platelet aggregation and fibrin stabilization, resulting in a predisposition to thrombogenesis and thereby contributing to the development and progression of diabetic vascular complications.
