Endogenous receptor-bound urokinase mediates tissue invasion of the human lung carcinoma cell lines A549 and Calu-1.	Macrophage colony-stimulating factor (CSF-1) increases the tissue invasive potential of the CSF-1 receptor-bearing lung carcinoma cell lines A549 and Calu-1 by increasing the number of endogenously bound urokinase-type plasminogen activators (u-PA)s on these cells. CSF-1, at concentrations which optimize invasion of A549 and Calu-1 cells into human amnion membranes (250 ng/ml), maximally augments the number of u-PA receptors occupied by endogenously produced urokinase. Preincubation of A549 and Calu-1 cells with the anti-u-PA monoclonal antibody MPW5UK (25 micrograms/ml) or with a 20- to 40-fold stoichiometric excess of fluid phase type 2 plasminogen activator inhibitor abrogates invasiveness, indicating that functionally active cell surface u-PA is essential for tissue invasion. In contrast, fluid phase type 1 plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1, 5-15 units/ml) does not inhibit invasiveness unless preincubated with the amnion membranes. Inhibition of invasion by PAI-1 is abolished by presaturating the amnion membranes with antiitronectin monoclonal antibody (10 micrograms/ml) which prevents binding of PAI-1 to tissue-associated vitronectin. Binding of PAI-1 to tissue vitronectin is therefore a prerequisite for its inhibitory action. Thus, endogenously receptor-bound u-PA is the primary protease mediating CSF-1-induced tissue invasiveness of the lung carcinoma cell lines A549 and Calu-1.
Thrombolytic and pharmacokinetic properties of an immunoconjugate of single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) and a bispecific monoclonal antibody against fibrin and against u-PA in baboons.	Targeting of plasminogen activators to the fibrin component of a thrombus with the use of monoclonal antibodies (MA) directed against human fibrin may enhance their thrombolytic potency and fibrin-specificity. The thrombolytic and pharmacokinetic properties of rscu-PA/MA-FU1-74, an immunoconjugate of recombinant single-chain urokinase-type plasminogen activator (rscu-PA) and a bispecific MA directed against u-PA and against the beta-chain of human fibrin (MA-FU1-74), were investigated in baboons with a [125I]fibrin-labeled autologous blood clot in the femoral vein. Continuous intravenous infusion of rscu-PA/MA-FU1-74 (1:1.2 molar ratio) over 2 hours showed a fivefold increased thrombolytic potency (lysis per unit dose) over that of unconjugated rscu-PA, as evidenced both by a higher maximal rate of lysis (380% +/- 68% v 78% +/- 25% lysis per mg u-PA equivalent of compound administered per kg body weight, P less than .001), and by a lower dose at which the maximal rate of lysis occurs (0.19 +/- 0.03 v 0.82 +/- 0.10 mg compound per kg body weight, P less than .001). The specific thrombolytic activity (percent lysis per unit steady-state plasma u-PA antigen level) was lower for rscu-PA/MA-FU1-74 than for rscu-PA, as shown by both a lower maximal rate of lysis (60% +/- 13% v 220% +/- 22% lysis per microgram/mL u-PA antigen level in plasma, P less than .001) and a higher plasma antigen level at which maximal lysis is achieved (1.2 +/- 0.17 v 0.20 +/- 0.01 microgram/mL, P less than .001). The thrombolytic potency of rscu-PA/MA-UK1-3, an immunoconjugate of rscu-PA with the parental anti-u-PA antibody was similar to that of unconjugated rscu-PA. Clot lysis was achieved without systemic fibrinogen or alpha 2-antiplasmin consumption, and with a minor transient prolongation of the bleeding time. After the end of the infusions, u-PA-related antigen disappeared from plasma in a biphasic manner, with an initial half-life of 3.3 +/- 0.4 minutes for rscu-PA, 13 +/- 1 minutes for rscu-PA/MA-FU1-74, and 13 +/- 1 minutes for rscu-PA/MA-UK1-3, with corresponding plasma clearances of 340 +/- 28, 10 +/- 1, and 37 +/- 4 mL/min, respectively (mean +/- SEM). rscu-PA/MA-FU1-74 has a fivefold higher thrombolytic potency than unconjugated rscu-PA, as a result both of fibrin targeting by the specific idiotype of the antibody and of a slower plasma clearance.
Monoclonal antibodies directed against human tissue-type plasminogen activator: a characterization of their species specificity, affinity and heavy-chain binding.	Six monoclonal antibodies (mIgG) and a polyclonal antibody (pIgG) directed against human tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) were tested for their species specificity towards human or murine t-PA. Whereas pIgG as well as several mIgGs discriminated poorly between these two t-PA species, one mIgG (clone E3) was highly specific for human t-PA. Inhibition and binding studies of human t-PA by mIgGs revealed high affinity-high inhibitory (E3) as well as high affinity-poor inhibitory (B1) mIgGs. The relative affinity of two mIgGs for human t-PA was found to be equal or even superior to that of pIgG. Immunoblotting of reduced two-chain t-PA and of an isolated heavy chain of t-PA prepared by recombinant DNA technology, showed that the E3 antibody was directed against the heavy chain of t-PA.
The activation of human [Glu1]plasminogen by human single-chain urokinase.	The activation of human [Glu1]plasminogen ([Glu1]Pg) by single-chain human urokinase (SCUKase) displays a substantial lag phase at physiological levels of [Glu1]Pg. Employing a monoclonal antibody that exhibits a high level of specificity for SCUKase, as compared to two-chain urokinase (TCUKase), we have demonstrated conclusively that during this lag phase a progressive loss of SCUKase occurs, most likely resulting from its conversion to TCUKase, in a reaction catalyzed by plasmin (HPm). The overall activation of [Glu1]Pg by SCUKase is inhibited by physiological levels of Cl- and stimulated by epsilon-amino caproic acid. Kinetic studies demonstrate that both these effects are based on first, the reaction of [Glu1]Pg with the TCUKase that is formed during the activation, and, second, the concomitant rate at which HPm is provided for the conversion of SCUKase to TCUKase. The results indicate that at physiological levels of [Glu1]Pg, its activation in the presence of SCUKase is regulated in one manner by the rate at which SCUKase is converted to TCUKase, in a process that is strongly influenced by physiological levels of Cl-. Finally, and importantly, we show that SCUKase possesses very little, if any, inherent ability to activate [Glu1]Pg at a rate that influences the kinetics of HPm generation under physiological conditions of [Glu1]Pg and Cl- concentrations.
Monoclonal antibodies against human high molecular weight urinary urokinase: application for affinity purification of urinary prourokinase.	Monoclonal antibodies against urinary urokinase were obtained by immunizing mice with purified human high molecular weight urokinase. Five antibodies were selected and denominated MPW1UK, MPW2UK, MPW3UK, MPW4UK, and MPW5UK, respectively. All selected antibodies reacted with high and low molecular weight urokinase. Cleavage of the low molecular weight paranitroanilide substrate pyro-Glu-Gly-Arg-pNA by urokinase was not inhibited by the antibodies and only one antibody (MPW5UK) inhibited plasminogen activation by urokinase. The ability of MPW5UK to bind to coated urokinase was 100-fold higher than that of the other antibodies. MPW5UK was used to prepare an immunosorbent for the purification of urokinase antigen from freshly voided crude urine. One-chain prourokinase was separated from two-chain urokinase by chromatography of the urokinase antigen containing mixture on agmatine Sepharose. As judged by SDS gel electrophoresis one-chain prourokinase as well as two-chain urokinase were purified to apparent homogeneity by this two-step procedure; the yields were 18% and 47% for single-chain prourokinase and two-chain urokinase, respectively, as calculated from total urokinase antigen contained in the starting material.
Screening for monoclonal antibodies with covalently linked antigen.	Microtitre plates prepared for ELISA are treated for the maximum adsorption of gamma-globulins (at pH 9). The adsorption of other soluble proteins (e.g. antigens) is sometimes less effective and therefore requires a higher amount of protein for the primary coat of wells. In order to reduce the amount of pure antigen required for the screening of mAb-producing hybridomas, we improved the sensitivity of our screening ELISA technique by coupling the antigen covalently to the surface of the microtiter wells. The antigen (urokinase) was coupled by the glutaraldehyde or carbodiimide procedures respectively using "aminoplates" (Nissho Iwai, Japan). The glutaraldehyde method led to at least a five fold increase of the sensitivity compared to coventional adsorption. Reduced requirement of antigen for the assay is thus achieved by a simple procedure.
Involvement of urokinase-type plasminogen activator in acantholysis induced by pemphigus IgG.	Pemphigus IgG induces acantholysis in skin organ culture without the involvement of complement. Urokinase-type plasminogen activator, a proteolytic enzyme, has been implicated in the development of acantholysis. To test this hypothesis, we prepared a rabbit anti-urokinase antibody, which inhibited the plasminogen activator activity in normal human epidermis and in cultured keratinocytes. When added to skin organ cultures along with pemphigus IgG, anti-urokinase IgG completely prevented the development of acantholysis. Normal or preimmune rabbit IgG had no effect on pemphigus IgG-induced acantholysis. Plasminogen activator converts the zymogen plasminogen to its active form plasmin, a broad specificity serine proteinase. When high concentrations of plasminogen alone were added to skin organ culture, acantholysis of the pemphigus foliaceous type was induced. Anti-urokinase antibody also inhibited plasminogen-induced acantholysis. These results strongly support a pivotal role for plasminogen activator in the development of acantholysis.
Combination of Zetaprep mass ion-exchange media and high-performance cation-exchange chromatography for the purification of high-purity monoclonal antibodies.	A procedure involving diafiltration, mass ion exchange on a QAE Zetaprep disk, gel chromatography and cation-exchange chromatography was used for the purification of mouse monoclonal antibodies from hybridoma culture supernatant. Prior to the separation steps, the starting solution was adjusted to the desired pH and conductivity. Diafiltration was used for this purpose in order to keep the volume constant or even to reduce the volume of sample. A QAE Zetaprep disk was used to remove the main protein contaminants from the culture supernatant. After washing unbound proteins out of the Zetaprep disk, slightly bound protein was eluted with a buffer solution containing 50 mM sodium chloride. The monoclonal antibody was eluted with a solution containing 150 mM sodium chloride. The purity of the eluted antibody was 50%, and was increased to 99% by subsequent high-performance cat-ion-exchange chromatography. The purity was determined by means of sodium-dodecyl sulphate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and silver staining. The advantage of the two high-performance techniques, mass ion exchange and high-performance cation-exchange chromatography, are the high-flow-rates and the high resolution that can be obtained. These techniques are suitable for the production of injectable therapeutic preparations.
Expression and characterization of a chimeric bispecific antibody against fibrin and against urokinase-type plasminogen activator.	We have produced a chimeric bispecific antibody that has dual specificity of human fibrin and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA). Complementary DNAs for variable regions of both anti-fibrin and anti-u-PA antibodies were cloned from two murine hybridomas secreting respective antibodies using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) techniques, and joined to cDNAs for human constant regions to form chimeric antibody genes. Both of two expression vectors for chimeric anti-fibrin and chimeric anti-u-PA antibodies were sequentially introduced into Chinese hamster ovary cells, and stable transfectants secreting the chimeric bispecific antibody were obtained. The highest producer transfectant (SULF/C2-30) secreted high level (about 40 micrograms ml-1) of total chimeric IgG and about 2% of the IgG had the bispecific activity of binding with both antigens. The chimeric bispecific antibody was purified by a combination of affinity chromatographies employing antigen-coupled columns and hydroxyapatite high-performance liquid chromatography. The purified chimeric bispecific antibody significantly enhanced the thrombolytic potency of single chain u-PA in an in vitro clot lysis assay as well as the original murine bispecific antibody.
Immunogenicity of the chimeric plasminogen activator K2tu-PA in rabbits.	Rabbits were repeatedly immunized with a chimeric plasminogen activator composed of the kringle-2 domain of human tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) attached to the serine protease domain of the human urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA). IgG from these rabbits was purified, biotinylated and subjected to affinity chromatography on K2tu-PA covalently attached to Sepharose. Roughly half the antibodies recovered from the K2tu-PA column could subsequently be bound to a column with similarly immobilized t-PA, whereas the other half bound to a u-PA column. Less than 0.01% of the biotinylated anti-K2tu-PA antibodies did not bind to either t-PA or u-PA and perhaps are directed against neoantigenic determinants on K2tu-PA, not present in the natural plasminogen activators.
