An assessment of the need for the voiding cystourethrogram for urologic screening prior to renal transplantation.	A retrospective review of the records of 450 patients who were evaluated for renal transplantation was undertaken to determine whether a voiding cystourethrogram (VCUG) influenced the surgical care of the recipient. Three hundred and forty eight of these patients proceeded to transplantation, with 333 of them receiving a VCUG as part of their evaluation.  A urologic abnormality was identified by VCUG in 51 individuals, 19 of whom had a known urologic abnormality as the etiology of their renal disease.  None of the other 32 patients with abnormalities discovered by VCUG required surgical correction.  In the remaining 282 patients the VCUG was normal.  The VCUG is not essential for the preparation of potential recipients for renal transplantation and should be utilized selectively in individuals with a history of urologic disease or when urinary tract abnormalities are identified by physical examination or an abnormal urine analysis.
Virtual endoscopy of the urinary tract from T(2)-weighted and gadolinium-enhanced T(1)-weighted MR urographic images]	To determine the diagnostic performance of T(2)-weighted (T2w) and gadolinium-enhanced T(1)-weighted (T1w-Gd-enhanced) MR urographic images for virtual endoscopy of the urinary tract.
Comparison of lower urinary tract symptom severity and associated bother between community-dwelling black and white men: the Olmsted County Study of Urinary Symptoms and Health Status and the Flint Men's Health Study.	To determine the magnitude of racial disparity in lower urinary tract symptom (LUTS) severity and bother by combining two large comparable epidemiologic studies of community-dwelling white and black men, thereby avoiding many of the referral biases present in previous studies. Prior studies evaluating racial differences in benign prostatic hyperplasia have been hampered by selection bias, because nearly all have used surgical treatment as a marker for benign prostatic hyperplasia.
Evaluation of lower urinary tract symptoms in females.	Ongoing controversy exists as to the extent of the necessary evaluation of the female presenting with lower urinary tract symptoms. Most would agree that a detailed history, a physical examination and a urine analysis are essential components of the initial evaluation of lower urinary tract symptoms in the female. Beyond these assessments, however, there are no universally accepted guidelines or recommendations. In selected patients, a urodynamic, endoscopic and/or radiographic evaluation may be indicated. When further investigation of lower urinary tract symptoms is being considered, individual test characteristics, including sensitivity, specificity, reproducibility and accuracy, must be balanced against such factors as cost, morbidity, discomfort, availability and invasiveness. This review discusses some of the recent reports, controversies and developments in the evaluation of lower urinary tract symptoms in the female, and briefly reviews the most recent relevant International Continence Society subcommittee publications.
Psychooncology. New aspects for urology]	Cancer and psychiatric symptoms commonly co-occur. The frequency is about 50%, and those most important for urology are depression, anxiety, and probably post-traumatic stress disorder. There is a strong relationship between psychological distress and cancer pain. This review provides information on diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for psychiatric diseases, which are important for oncology patients in urology. Special advice is given for the doctor-patient relationship and communication.
Urologic emergencies.	Genitourinary emergencies are commonly seen in the emergency room, and the primary care physician plays a vital role in the initial evaluation and treatment of each. Although genitourinary trauma is rarely life threatening, it may be the cause of significant long-term morbidity. Key clinical indicators outlined in this article (eg, inability to urinate, gross hematuria) combined with judicious use of imaging help stage the injury and allow a safe and rational approach to treatment. The acute scrotum frequently presents a challenging problem to both the emergentologist and urologist. Although epididymitis may be managed nonoperatively, there should be no delay in exploring suspected testis torsion. The conditions of the penis outlined require urgent treatment to preserve potency (priapism) and restore normal function (eg, penile amputation). Acute urinary retention has a myriad of underlying etiologies, and treatment must be individualized. Urgent bladder decompression by urethral or suprapubic catheterization provides initial relief until urologic consultation is available.
How reliable are bladder perceptions during cystometry?	Sensory input is important for bladder control in daily life. It has been reported that perceptions during cystometry are subjective. To help refine this subjectivity, objective and semi-objective tests (e.g., sensory thresholds of electrical stimulation) have been recommended by The International Continence Society. However, the reliability of such studies has not been established. This study was designed to evaluate the reliability of bladder perceptions during cystometry.
Magnetic resonance imaging in urology. Current techniques]	Due to low costs and common availability, ultrasonography and computed tomography still represent the most common diagnostic tools in uroradiology. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is gaining more and more importance since this imaging modality allows for a comprehensive examination of almost the complete spectrum of urologic diseases, including congenital malformations. The most important advantages of MRI are the free choice of slice orientation, high soft tissue contrast and high resolution as well as the lack of radiation. Technical progresses in hard and software components have led to a reduction in acquisition time, allowing for real-time imaging as well as MR angiography and MR urography with a significant reduction in motion artifacts. In addition, contrast enhanced MRI represents the imaging modality of choice in patients with reduced renal function or known allergy against iodinated contrast agent.
Design and evaluation of an ultrasound-based bladder volume monitor.	Ultrasonic bladder volume monitors have successfully been used in the diagnosis and treatment of various urological disorders. Ultrasonic bladder monitors have been developed but they have either been too bulky or too simple and inaccurate. A new, wearable ultrasonic bladder volume monitor has been designed for urological patients. The instrument consists of seven phased-array ultrasonic transducers ergonomically arranged in a circular pattern to optimise detection of the bladder walls perpendicular to the abdominal wall. A Bluetooth radio link was used to transmit data to a laptop computer, where the main signal processing was performed. After detection of bladder surface points, a three-dimensional convex hull representing the bladder was generated, and the volume was estimated. Accuracy, precision, drift over time, temperature dependency and dynamic performance were evaluated using ultrasound phantoms. Furthermore, the system was tested on one volunteer using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) as reference. The apparatus showed no significant drift, systematic error or temperature effects. Percentage error during static volume measurements had a 95% central prediction interval of +/-7.5% and mean absolute percentage error of 2.9%. The dynamic performance analysis showed linearity in the analysed volume interval. The in vivo study showed a high degree of correlation (R2= 0.99) between the volume measured using MRI and that measured with the apparatus.
Tele-diagnostic and therapeutic guidance in urology.	To design a Web-based network for diagnostic and therapeutic guidance in urology.
Revealing urologic diseases by proteomic techniques.	Proteomics, as the study of the proteomes of tissues and body fluids, has recently been introduced as a tool for revealing urologic diseases. Two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (2D-PAGE) and surface-enhanced laser desorption/ionzation (SELDI) are two techniques used in proteomic studies. Among the many urologic diseases, the malignancies including prostate cancer, bladder cancer, and renal cancer are the subjects most often selected for proteomic analysis. Poor reproducibility is one of the difficulties that must be overcome in order for proteomic technology to be a robust tool.
Urological surgery in the octogenarian: excessive preconceptions?]	We reviewed the records of 277 patients aged 80 or older that had been considered for surgery during the period 1980-1990. We analyzed the surgical risk (Goldman and ASA score), patient history, type of surgery and the post-operative course (Karnofsky index) in order to identify the risk factors and to permit objective and practical selection of patients amenable to surgical treatment. Overall, regardless of sex, the benign (35%) and malignant (18%) diseases of the prostate and bladder neoplasms (30%) accounted for more than 80% of the surgical procedures. The early postoperative complications were shown to be influenced by the type of surgery (emergency surgery), the approach (open surgery), the presence of preoperative urinary tract infections and the ASA score. Regardless of the cure rate, the analysis of the postoperative course and data gleaned from telephone interviews indicate that 61.5% of the patients probably had a very good or good quality of life at 6 months. In the non-operated group 1 out of 10 procedures that had been anticipated was not performed and many had a malignant disease. Although there were more patients with fair/poor quality of life in the patient group that did not undergo surgery than in the operated group (42.8% versus 28.5%, respectively), patient general condition at 6 months was very good or good in 50% of the patients that were followed or interviewed. The use of the preoperative evaluation methods and our clinical experience can eliminate subjective evaluation and permit developing safe and precise surgical programs.
An international telecytologic quiz on urinary cytology reveals educational deficits and absence of a commonly used classification system.	Urinary cytology is limited by high interobserver variability in the evaluation of cells with little atypia. We set up an online quiz on urinary cytology and tested the performance of 246 international participants. The quiz consisted of still images of 42 urinary specimens with equivocal morphologic features and 10 control cases with an unequivocal cytologic diagnosis. The nature of the cells on the 292 quiz images had been verified by multitarget fluorescence in situ hybridization in addition to the information obtained by cystoscopy, clinical follow up, and/or histologic examination. The original quiz cases and the percentage of answers given by the participants can be viewed at: http://kathrin.unibas.ch/urinzyto/. High-grade cancers were diagnosed correctly in 76.0% and low-grade cancers in only 33.9%. Remarkably, 54.5% of all participants misclassified decoy cells as malignant. This study shows that large-scale international online quizzes may be used to find educational deficits in cytopathology.
(Paediatric) magnetic resonance urography: just fancy images or a new important diagnostic tool?	Magnetic resonance urography has become an established imaging tool in uroradiology. Its potential to assess anatomy and function makes it an ideal tool for evaluation of urinary tract malformations, renal cysts, genito-urinary tract tumours, infections and renal transplants. This review tries to highlight the potential of magnetic resonance urography in the light of new advances, particularly focusing on paediatric applications.
Presentation and outcome of emphysematous renal tract disease in patients with diabetes mellitus.	Emphysematous renal tract disease (ERTD) is a rare necrotizing infection of the renal parenchyma and urinary tract caused by gas-producing organisms. ERTD deserves special attention because of its life-threatening potential.
Office based flexible cystoscopy may be less painful for men allowed to view the procedure.	An experienced urology nurse observed that patients seemed to tolerate the procedure better when allowed to see the monitor in real time during office based cystoscopy. We assessed the impact of this on visual analog scale pain scores.
Diagnostic performance of combined specific urinary proteins and urinary flow cytometry in urinary tract pathology.	Urinalysis comprises three techniques: urinary flow cytometry, test strip analysis and determination of specific urinary proteins. We investigated the diagnostic possibilities of combining these methods for a cohort of patients with a variety of well-documented urological and nephrological pathology.
Healthcare practices among blacks and whites with urinary tract symptoms.	The reasons for African-American men to seek care for lower urinary care symptoms has not been determined due to sparse population-based data.
Shift in imaging modalities of the urinary tract over a 25-year period and its impact on ionizing radiation doses given to patients.	To explore the shift in imaging modalities used when examining the urinary tract over the period 1979-2003 and to see how this shift, together with a radiation protection policy, have influenced the doses of ionizing radiation used.
RARE-MR-urography in the diagnosis of upper urinary tract abnormalities in children.	RARE-MR-urography (Rapid Acquisition with Relaxation Enhancement) is a fast MR imaging technique (6.4 s/acquisition) that selectively depicts fluid by heavy T2-weighting. From 9/1989 to 11/1990, RARE-MR urograms were prospectively evaluated in the diagnosis of upper urinary tract abnormalities in 55 children. The method is performed in several planes and combined with a coronal, T1-weighted spin-echo sequence. Forty out of 42 kidneys with dilated renal pelvis, and 21 out of 24 dilated ureters were identified, only the mildly dilated ones were missed. Even in non-functioning kidneys the urinary tract was clearly depicted by RARE-MR-urography. However, no differentiation could be made with this technique between vesicoureteral reflux and non-refluxing dilatation of ureter and/or renal pelvis. All 19 pelviureteric obstructions and all eight renal duplications with a dilated segment were identified. RARE-MR-urography is a new tool for diagnosing urinary tract abnormalities in children without having to employ ionizing radiation, contrast media, or general anesthesia. A dilated urinary tract can be shown in one image displaying the entire urinary system, similar to excretory urography. The technique is presently not able to provide the information of voiding cystourethrography or renal scintigraphy, nor is it as easy to perform as ultrasound. However, in certain cases it may replace excretory urography.
Urodynamic morbidity and dysuria prophylaxis.	A group of 324 patients received prophylactic treatment with either sodium bicarbonate, potassium citrate or a glucose placebo following urodynamic studies. Urine was screened for infection both before and after testing and the incidence of dysuria assessed by postal questionnaire; 63% of patients experienced some degree of dysuria and this was severe and prolonged in 6.3%, the majority of whom were male. Neither sodium bicarbonate nor potassium citrate was any more effective in preventing dysuria than placebo. The presence of severe prolonged dysuria was not associated with a urinary tract infection or with any particular urodynamic diagnosis.
How to use an article about therapy.	Most surgical interventions have inherent benefits and associated risks. Before implementing a new therapy we should ascertain the benefits and risks of the therapy and assure ourselves that the resources consumed in the intervention will not be exorbitant.
Preparation of the children with lower urinary tract pathology to the kidney transplantation]	Kidney transplantation (KTx) is the best method of the treatment in the end stage renal disease (ESRD). Children with persistent uropathy were disqualified from registration on the waiting list till now. Posterior urethral valves (puv), neurogenic bladder, persistent vesico-ureteral reflux, prune belly syndrome, persistent urogenital sinus, congenital urethral atresia were among these pathology. Methods and possibilities of the preparation of the children with uropathy to the KTx are presenting in this paper. Basic investigations in pretransplant preparation of a patient are cystography and urodynamic study. On the ground of the results of these investigations proper therapeutic approach is undertook. Drug treatment, surgical treatment are to be designed for bladder preparation for KTx. If there is no possibility to obtain a good bladder function, the child is qualified to kidney transplantation with non-standard urinary drainage into augmented bladder or ileal conduit.
Diffusion-weighted MR imaging of the kidneys and the urinary tract.	There is currently a growing interest in applications of diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) in the abdomen and pelvis. DWI provides original functional information where the signal and contrast are determined by the microscopic mobility of water. DWI can provide additional information over conventional MR sequences, and could potentially be used as an alternative to contrast-enhanced sequences in patients with chronic renal insufficiency at risk of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis. We provide an overview on basic physics background on DWI applied to the kidneys, and we summarize the current available data, including our recent experience.
Molecular magnetic resonance imaging of the genitourinary tract: recent results and future directions.	This article focuses on preclinical and early clinical applications of renal cell MR imaging, on new developments in MR control of intrarenal gene therapy, and on several potential applications of molecular imaging techniques, mainly targeting cell receptors and enzyme activity, which could find exciting applications within the genitourinary tract.
MR urography: technique and results for the evaluation of urinary obstruction in the pediatric population.	MR urography has the potential to revolutionize imaging of the urinary tract in both adults and children, because of its ability to provide an unprecedented level of anatomic information and quantitative functional evaluation of each kidney. MR urography can now provide useful assessment of obstructive uropathy and may provide predictive information about which children will benefit from surgery. It has the potential to identify parameters that indicate a significant obstruction as opposed to self-limited hydronephrosis. Further technical developments in the field will produce greater insights into the pathophysiology of not only urologic disorders but also disorders of the kidney itself.
Uropharmacology in primary care: 2010 update.	Many disorders such as erectile dysfunction, overactive bladder, hypogonadism and benign prostatic hypertrophy have traditionally been managed primarily by urologists. The development of newer agents to treat many of these conditions has allowed the primary care provider to manage many of these common conditions. The use of these newer medications has become commonplace in the primary care setting. This article will update some of the most commonly used urologic medications to optimize patient management strategies by the primary care provider or in coordination with the urologist.
Follow-up of spina bifida children with and without upper renal tract changes at birth.	The aim of this study was to assess 2 groups of children with spina bifida; one with and the other without upper renal tract (URT) changes at birth and to evaluate the outcome of their management. In Group 1, there were 148 patients who had normal URT at birth. They were studied for a mean follow-up of 131 months. Twenty-eight per cent developed URT changes in later life. The median time interval for URT changes to develop between birth and the first assessment which showed abnormal finding, was 33 months and between the last normal URT assessment and the development of URT changes, was 16 months. Six patients with URT changes were treated conservatively and 36 required intervention. Twenty-eight of 42 patients showed initial improvement of URT changes but 25 subsequently deteriorated. In 3 patients renal function deteriorated with renal failure in one and renal impairment in 2. In Group 2, 24 patients who had URT changes present at birth were also studied for a mean follow-up of 115 months. The URT changes in 8 patients deteriorated after the initial assessment over a median time of 15 months. Twelve patients' URT changes improved spontaneously without active intervention over a median time interval of 16 months but 5 subsequently deteriorated. Overall, the prognosis of children with URT changes at birth did not seem to be any worse than children developing changes later in life. Lesions of sacral and thoraco-lumbar regions of the spine were most commonly associated with URT changes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Photodynamic diagnosis in urology: state of the art.	High grade NMIBC remains a treatment challenge for urologists. WLC is widely regarded as the gold standard for detection and TUR. PDD may offer superiority to WLC in terms of detection, recurrence free survival and overall cost, but the current data must be scrutinized closely. Nearly all trials comparing PDD to WLC have shown an advantage in overall tumor detection with photodynamics and thus may lead to better treatment strategies in these patients. This review will focus on the results of a multitude of studies where PDD in combination with various photosensitizers was employed in the diagnosis and treatment of bladder cancer. The equipment, techniques and cost of these modalities will also be discussed.
Examining the urine--what can it tell us at the bed-side?	Urine is a window to understanding diseases of the kidney and systemic disorders. It is the easiest bodily fluid to obtain can be analysed in resource limited settings where it is of great value in enhancing diagnostic and therapeutic pathways. Asking questions about urine and urination in each clinical history and routinely analysing the urine at the bed-side are that all health professionals should have and, equally importantly, should use.
Quantitative evaluation of lower urinary tract symptoms using a visual analog scale in men undergoing permanent brachytherapy.	A previous study showed that a visual analog scale (VAS) that measures quality of life (QOL) in relation to each of the seven items on the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) was found to be significantly more able to identify a patient's chief complaint. The aim of this study was to assess the two questionnaires with special reference to the symptom that the patient most wants treated via the concomitant use of the IPSS and VAS after permanent brachytherapy (PBT).
Fetal diffusion imaging: pearls and solutions.	 Recently, diffusion-weighted (DWI) magnetic resonance imaging of the fetus has evolved from a basic research application to an important diagnostic imaging tool in fetal magnetic resonance imaging. Although technically challenging and still plagued with several sources of artifacts, DWI can add clinically important information, which cannot be provided by any other prenatal imaging modality. Its potential to noninvasively probe tissue structures on the basis of Brownian molecular motion enables the detection of early changes associated with acute fetal diseases, as well as structural alterations of functionally diverse compartments of different fetal organs. In this article, the current clinical applications of fetal brain and body DWI are outlined, as well as its current limitations.
Lack of genitourinary physical examination before urologic consultation--a quality of care issue.	To quantify the frequency of genitourinary (GU) physical examinations obtained by the emergency department or primary hospital team before obtaining a urologic consultation and evaluate the role of the different demographic and clinical factors.
Clinically relevant modeling of urodynamics function: the VBN model.	For the past two decades, a mathematical model of micturition was built step by step. Fundamental studies, presentations of the model and several applications to various male and female lower urinary tract dysfunctions have been published. We expect now that other teams will be interested in using it. In order to do so, a VBN pack (software in Linux and tutorial) is freely available.
A review of inpatient urology consultations in an Irish tertiary referral centre.	Our institution is a 680-bed tertiary referral centre with broad medical and surgical subspecialty services. We retrospectively audited the pattern of inpatient consultations from all specialities within our institution to the urology department over a 1-year period.
The structure of urological disorders in athletes]	According to the data of preventive medical examinations since the end of 2009 to April 2012, data on the urological incidence in 654 athletes surveyed during this period were collected and analyzed. Among the diseases identified in athletes, the main place is occupied by varicocele (5.35%), urethritis (5.04%), urolithiasis without clinical manifestation of acute inflammation (1.37%).
Urodynamics: with a focus on appropriate indications.	The purpose of this article is to update urologists on contemporary indications and techniques for adult urodynamic testing. The discussion includes examples of specific clinical questions and appropriate urodynamic testing techniques to address these questions. It includes quality control measures and examples of testing pitfalls with troubleshooting methods. 
Progression and remission of urologic symptoms in the community: results of a longitudinal cluster analysis approach.	To investigate the natural history of urologic symptom progression and remission by means of cluster analysis in a large, well-characterized cohort of men and women.
Significance of immunoglobulin A titres in the diagnosis of urogenital chlamydial infections.	The significance of chlamydial serum IgA compared with IgM and IgG in the diagnosis of urogenital chlamydial infection was evaluated using 120 sera from different categories of patients. In urethritis patients both IgM and IgA antibodies were not found to be present consistently, whereas in patients with deep-seated chlamydial infection, IgA was more often present. Although of limited value in superficial infections, demonstration of IgA antibodies may be of value in the diagnosis of deep-seated chlamydial infections.
Urologic examination and treatment of patients with acute injuries of the spinal medulla]	During a period of one year, nine patients with traumatic lesions of the spinal medulla were examined and treated urologically. The patients were followed-up for 24-36 months and follow-up will continue. All of the patients were treated primarily with sterile intermittent catheterization by the nursing staff. Exceptions from this were patients in whom indwelling catheters were necessary on account of complicating conditions. During the acute phase, the patients were examined by a urologist and bladder function investigations with cystometry + electromyographic registration from the pelvic floor were undertaken. When patients had recovered from the spinal shock phase, emptying of the bladder supplemented by alpha-adrenergic blocking preparations and clean intermittent catheterization were instituted in the patients with supra-sacral lesions. Patients with infra-sacral bladder paresis were trained in miction on abdominal pressure supplemented by clean intermittent catheterization. No complications from this treatment have occurred and renal function has remained stable. Only one patient has an indwelling catheter and it has not proved possible to persuade the patient to accept removal.
Intervention for fetal obstructive uropathy: has it been effective?	The best management of fetal hydronephrosis is controversial. Despite the lack of experimental evidence that prenatal drainage of the obstructed urinary tract substantially improves ultimate renal function, various forms of percutaneous intervention on the fetal bladder and kidney have been used. To evaluate the efficacy of intervention for suspected fetal obstructive uropathy, all published reports of drainage of the fetal urinary tract up to December, 1985, were reviewed. In the 57 reported cases, the most common type of intervention was placement of a vesicoamniotic shunt (37%). Complications occurred in 25 cases (44%), including inadequate shunt drainage or migration (19%), onset of premature labour within 48 h (12%), urinary ascites (7%), and chorioamnionitis (5%). Of 28 fetuses with associated oligohydramnios, only 6 (21%) survived. 2 of these survivors had vesicoamniotic shunts, 2 single or multiple bladder aspirations, 1 an external renal drainage catheter, and 1 in-utero vesicostomy. Because of the high complication rate and lack of evidence of improved survival from in-utero drainage procedures, a prospective, randomised trial is needed to compare survival with and without vesicoamniotic shunt placement.
Genitourinary emergencies: a prehospital perspective.	Genitourinary emergencies present unique assessment and treatment challenges in the prehospital setting. Common chief complaints and patient presentations are listed in Table 3. Serious cases may involve hypovolemia, shock, severe pain, infection, or autonomic hyperreflexia. Prehospital management should focus on maintaining an adequate cardiovascular status, preventing excessive blood loss, relieving urinary retention, and alleviating pain. With these priorities in mind, prehospital treatment should have as its goals to treat pain, to reduce fear, and to minimize the complications of genitourinary emergencies.
Sexually transmitted urogenital diseases.	Patients with sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) frequently present for care to the Emergency Department. Some of the more common STDs are increasing in number despite public health efforts to control their spread. Relatively simple diagnostic modalities for several of the more common STDs are presented. In addition, the most current treatment regimens for each STD discussed are described in detail.
Diagnostic and therapeutic urologic procedures.	Urologic procedures useful to the emergency physician in the diagnosis and management of urinary tract disorders are presented in this article. Discussed are urinalysis, diagnostic radiologic modalities (KUB film, intravenous pyelography, retrograde cystourethrography, computerized tomography, angiography, ultrasonography, and renal scintigraphy), and urologic procedures (urethral catheterization, percutaneous suprapubic cystostomy, suprapubic bladder aspiration, dorsal-slit procedure, and meatotomy). Where appropriate, indications, contraindications, method, and complications are presented for the various procedures.
Noncalculi urinary tract disorders secondary to idiopathic hypercalciuria in children.	Pediatricians frequently have faced one or more of an array of lower urinary tract symptoms without obvious cause. Now, with increasing recognition, many of these diagnostic enigmas have been ascribed to idiopathic hypercalciuria. This article reviews this "new" clinical syndrome, attempts to clarify pathophysiology, and selects patients for therapeutic intervention.
In-office ultrasonography to image the kidneys and bladder of children.	We present the first experience with in-office ultrasonography to further the office evaluation of children with urological problems. Since February 1986 we imaged prospectively the kidneys and bladders of 172 children (100 boys and 72 girls, mean age 6 years) who presented for office evaluation using a portable 5 MHz. real-time linear array scanner. Initially, we gained familiarity with in-office ultrasonography by examining 38 children who presented for evaluation of problems not recognized to be associated with renal malformations (that is undescended testis). In-office ultrasonography showed hydronephrosis in 1 boy with a buried penis that was found later to be owing to ureteropelvic junction obstruction requiring pyeloplasty. Then, in-office ultrasonography was used to supplement the office evaluation of children with a history of urine infection, voiding problems or known malformations of the kidney and/or bladder. The test showed that 12 of 24 children (50 per cent) with a history of urine infection had a thickened detrusor, large bladder capacity with or without residual urine or reduced sensation to void. In-office ultrasonography also showed that 24 of 74 children (32 per cent) with voiding problems had a thickened detrusor, large bladder capacity with or without residual urine, fecal impaction, suspected bladder neck obstruction (which later required internal urethrotomy) or small bladder capacity. In 35 children with known malformations of the urinary tract in-office ultrasonography was useful to assess the progress of hydronephrosis (29) or to clarify the etiology of the hydronephrosis (4). The diagnostic value of this test was evaluated in 98 children in whom enough data were available to compare the results to those of subsequent urography or clinical outcome. In-office ultrasonography had a 98 per cent sensitivity and an 82 per cent specificity rate. We conclude that in-office ultrasonography is a reliable means to identify incomplete bladder emptying in children with urine infection related to dysfunctional voiding, identify detrusor thickening related to the unstable bladder and indicate the likely etiology of hydronephrosis.
In vivo testing of cell-mediated immunity in urology]	The new disposable plastic device, called Multitest, presents 7 standardized microbial antigens. In this way 558 urological patients and healthy subjects were skin-tested. We obtained a statistically decrease in generalization of tumor disease and in perioperative complications. So the test battery may be of interest for monitoring cancer patients and to define high-risk patients.
Urodynamics.	Urologic problems constitute a very significant percentage of all clinical problems in pediatrics. Incorporation of urodynamic evaluation and followup is important in achieving optimal results in a significant number of these entities. In terms of cost effectiveness, it is particularly efficient in this age of extremely high-priced technology.
The echographic examination of urological homogeneous masses based on 15 years of experience.	Based on his 15 years' experience, the author described the ultrasound diagnostics of urological homogeneous masses. He stresses that, of the diagnostic examinations, always the less inconvenient intervention imposing the least strain on the patients should be selected. The reliability of ultrasonic diagnosis is verified by the authors' own results.
The use of transrectal longitudinal real-time ultrasonography in urodynamics.	A total of 63 combined transrectal ultrasonographic and urodynamic studies was performed to evaluate the voiding dysfunction in 49 spinal cord injury patients and 7 other patients. Ultrasonography provided excellent real-time imaging of the bladder neck, prostatic urethra, prostate and external sphincter, and allowed for accurate diagnosis of detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia, detrusor-bladder neck dyssynergia, prostatic hypertrophy and bladder neck strictures. In addition to offering these capabilities, ultrasonography is less expensive than x-ray and it does not involve exposure of either the patient or examiner to radiation. However, it does not provide a means to detect vesicoureteral reflux.
Ultrasound diagnosis: principles of application]	Continuous technical development, more and more users of ultrasound and increasing experience in investigating various organs and regions of the human body have contributed to the fact that diagnostic ultrasound even in children today is a method of choice in many cases. The purpose of this report is to show the various indications and possibilities of ultrasound and to discuss the significance and value in comparison with other imaging modalities.
Management of the fetus with urinary tract dilatation.	This report describes our experience with 18 pregnant women who presented to our center with suspected fetal urinary tract dilatation. The patients were divided into 4 groups: group I had unilateral fetal urinary tract dilatation and normal amniotic fluid volume, group II had bilateral dilatation and normal amniotic fluid volume, group III had bilateral dilatation and oligohydramnios, group IV had nonurinary tract malformations in addition to urinary tract dilatation. Patients with normal amniotic fluid volume and either unilateral or bilateral fetal dilatation (groups I and II) had a good pregnancy outcome. Patients with oligohydramnios and bilateral dilatation had a poor pregnancy outcome. No intrauterine surgery or shunting was performed in any of the patients. The initial diagnosis of urinary tract dilatation led to the prenatal diagnosis of major nonurologic malformations (group IV) in 3 patients who also had a poor outcome. An algorithm is presented that reflects our experience with the management of these patients and could serve as a guide for others caring for similar patients.
The evaluation of microscopic hematuria: a population-based study.	From 1979 until 1983, 2,005 men underwent routine urological examinations. Of these men 85 (4 per cent) had asymptomatic microscopic hematuria. All men underwent complete urological evaluation. Significant urological disease was detected in 22 per cent of the patients. Therefore, complete urological evaluation can be justified in a nonselected group of men with microscopic hematuria.
Diagnostic ultrasound in urology.	Diagnostic ultrasound has been used over the last eight years for the demonstration of various space-occupying lesions of the urogenital tract, for the estimation of the prostate size and for the identification of intrascrotal processes and tumours. 918 patients were studied by this method. In 595 (87.3 per cent) of the 682 surgical cases in this series ultrasonic diagnosis was confirmed by the surgical finding. False-positive and false-negative results totalled 17.7 per cent. The method is particularly suited for the differential diagnosis of renal cysts from tumours without the need for other procedures involving discomfort to the patients. This procedure, which is free from any iatrogenic hazard, provides accurate information on the size and structure of space-occupying lesions.
Malakoplakia of the urinary tract.	five cases of malakoplakia of the urinary tract are described. It is much more common in middle-aged females (peak incidence in the fifth decade compared with the seventh decade for males) but remains an uncommon condition, although clinically there is a strong association with recurrent urinary tract infection. It causes obstructive stenotic lesions of the ureters or pelviureteric junction, which pose the serious threat. Many cases are associated with non-malakoplakic diseases of other systems which often determine the prognosis. The most commonly used method of treatment was long-term antibiotic therapy; this seemed effective, although controlled trials have not been performed.
Urodynamic follow-up investigation after radical abdominal hysterectomy and lymphadenectomy for invasive carcinoma of the uterine cervix (author's transl)]	80 patients without recurrence of carcinoma of the cervix were investigated. The patients had radical abdominal hysterectomies and lymphadenectomies according to Makkenrodt-Latzko-Meigs in the years 1970-1977 at the first university department of gynecology and obstetrics in Munich. The investigation was carried out in the urodynamic testing unit which is described. 47.5% of the patients were free of symptoms. 21% of the women had stress incontinence. 19% of the patients had neurogenic bladder symptoms. 44 of the 80 patients had post-operative radiotherapy. There was no significant difference in the urinary symptoms and signs of the group with and the group without post-operative radiotherapy. The symptoms of the patients from a standardized questionaire did not coincide with the urodynamic study results.
The ultrasonically enhanced abdominal examination.	Ultrasound is a unique diagnostic imaging tool that enhances the physical examination of the abdomen, without the hazards of radiation. The physician can instantly visualize palpated masses or areas of tenderness during ultrasound examination, and immediate correlation of tissue texture and clinical findings is possible. This combined approach aids in identifying inflammatory, neoplastic and degenerative pathology, as well as normal anatomic variations mimicking disease.
Endoscopic examination in children.	Cystourethroscopy is an uncomfortable and often painful investigation for children. It is distressing to the parents, and even when it is done on a day case basis it can cause considerable disruption to the family. It should therefore only be considered when it is felt that the examination will contribute to the management of the urinary problem in the child, and then only after routine assessment including physical examination, urine culture, renal function studies, excretion urography and, where indicated, micturating cystogram. In a study of 242 children who had cystourethroscopy, it was found to be of only limited value in children with enuresis, incontinence, haematuria, recurrent urinary infection and painful micturition. In some children it provided an opportunity for either indirect (from instrumentation) or formal urethral dilatation and this seemed to be associated with post-operative symptom relief in some children. Endoscopy appeared to be of most value in the management of vesicoureteric reflux, upper tract duplication and specific urethral abnormalities. In these situations the examination provided essential information which was helpful with further management of the children.
The use of electropherogram in a clinical setting (author's transl)]	The AA. have spent several years working on the correlation between EPG patterns and diagnosis upon discharge. They then attempted to codify those abnormalities which were statistically related to different illnesses. This codification should not be considered definitive; however, it can be suggestive of further studies especially for those hospitals equipped with a computer which can correlate EPG patterns with the initial diagnosis or the diagnosis on discharge.
Different types of extragenital endometriosis: a review.	Endometriotic growth may appear in any structure in the body. As well as affecting the internal genitalia, lesions are not uncommon in the bowel, urinary tract and thorax and reports of a number of cases at rarer sites have been published. This review is based on more than 1000 publications on the subject, that allows an overview of the appearance of the disease in different organs.
Urodynamics in the hands of the physician]	Urodynamic studies provide a physiological approach to a clinical practice. The physician is able to evaluate the relative contribution of each pathway to a given disease. When these investigations are performed by a clinician, he must avoid pseudoscientific sophistication but also simplistic interpretations. A good practice of urodynamics implies both rigour and simplicity.
Uro- and colodynamic studies in combined diseases of the pelvic organs in children]	A variety of examination techniques are widely used by the authors in uro- and colodynamic investigations of children with combined pelvic lesions. These are: rectotonometry, electroimpulse test of the urethra and anal canal, thermocontrast test of the bladder and distal colon, electrostimulation of the pudendal nerve, investigation of the bladder and rectosphincteral reflex, anal and bulbocavernous reflexes, etc. Such multimodality approach is helpful in detection of local pelvic dysfunction and in prediction of the treatment outcomes.
The functional assessment of the upper urinary tract by the methods of 2-frequency impedance measurement and multichannel impedance ureterography]	The paper describes impedance methods of investigating upper urinary tracts (UUT) which may serve adjuvants in the diagnosis of the urinary tract wall disturbances due to diseases caused by impaired urine evacuation from the kidney and which may prove helpful in the choice of therapeutic policy, evaluation of the postoperative period and outcomes prognosis. UUT impedance tests can be performed during endoscopic manipulations or under open operative interventions. Two-frequency impedancemetry allows rapid detection of non-functioning UUT parts or sclerosal sites of the UUT wall, relevant criteria being the ratio of basic impedances of the site under low and high scanning current. This value is computed by an urological two-frequency impedancemeter IDU-M. To assess the UUT wall functionally, use should be made of 6-channel urological rheograph REUR-6 providing multichannel registration of immediate impedance ureterograms. In this manner one can obtain qualitative and quantitative assessment of the ureteral peristalsis through its all length, the criteria being the amplitude of impedance ureterographic complexes, their shape, duration, frequency, rhythm, sequence and rate of distribution. Loading tests increase the accuracy of UUT impedance measurements, are able to define compensatory reserves of the wall contractility. The introduction of rheological methods in urological practice makes broader the armory of diagnostic techniques in urology, upgrade pathogenetic validity of surgical and therapeutic measures.
Latex allergy in patients with myelomeningocele presenting for imaging studies of the urinary tract.	We prospectively surveyed patients with myelomeningocele who presented in our department over a 3-month period to determine the frequency of latex allergy in this population.
Urinary gonadotropin peptide (UGP) in Egyptian patients with benign and advanced malignant urological disease.	Urinary gonadotropin peptide (UGP) levels were determined in urine samples from 450 Egyptian subjects to determine its relative level of expression in benign and malignant urological disease, and normal individuals. The mean UGP level in patients with bladder cancer was 44-fold higher than in patients with benign disease, and 81-fold higher than in normal individuals. At specificities of 95% and 100%, overall sensitivities of 73% and 60%, respectively, were observed for the detection of malignant disease. Mean UGP levels in patients with bladder cancer were significantly correlated with the stage and grade of malignant disease but did not vary significantly when stratified according to histological type of disease, nodal involvement or bilharzial association. UGP could be a potentially useful marker for the differentiation of benign from malignant urological disease.
Diagnosis and management of the urologic complications of renal transplantation.	669 patients who received a renal transplant from January 1988 to December 1993 at a single institution were evaluated for urologic complications. Urologic complications were assessed and categorized by organ involvement: kidney, ureter, bladder, lymphatic, calculus and complicated urinary tract infection. Complications were also classified as "early" if they occurred within 14 d after transplant and those diagnosed after this period were called "late." The management of all complications is presented. There were a total of 98 urologic complications identified in 669 patients, of which 51 were complicated urinary tract infections. The other 47 complications were divided among renal (8), ureteral (19), bladder (3), lymphatic (10) and calculi (7). Preventive measures, such as technical management of ureteral reimplantation, periodic renal scan or ultrasound examinations, and long-term urinary antibiotic prophylaxis could further reduce the incidence of urologic complications. The result should be further improvement in transplant patient and graft survival.
Biologic behavior of feline lower urinary tract diseases.	This case represents the typical presentation and natural progression of idiopathic lower urinary tract disease in cats. As depicted, it generally occurs in young cats. Cats often have evidence of hematuria with minimal or no leukocyturia. In this cat, clinical signs and hematuria subsided in 3 days. Tristan was evaluated monthly for 1 year. During this period, a recurrence of clinical signs or hematuria did not occur.
Overview of diagnosis of feline lower urinary tract disorders.	Disorders of the lower urinary tract are common in cats. Optimal patient care depends on an accurate diagnostic assessment of clinical information and thoughtful analysis of the trade offs between the benefits and risks of further testing and treatment. Systematic approaches to data collection can minimize diagnostic uncertainty and maximize diagnostic efficiency.
Cystocentesis. Diagnostic and therapeutic considerations.	The diagnostic and therapeutic value of cystocentesis has been recognized for over 80 years. In feline patients with nonobtrusive lower urinary tract diseases (LUTD), normal patients, or patients with nonurinary disorders, diagnostic cystocentesis circumvents many of the potential problems associated with collection of urine specimens by normal micturition, manual compression of the urinary bladder, or catheterization. In patients with obstructive LUTDs, therapeutic cystocentesis temporarily halts the adverse effects of obstructive uropathy and may provide additional time to remove or bypass the obstructive lesion. In our experience, cystocentesis has been associated with few significant side effects; however, it may induce mild transient microscopic hematuria which may be indistinguishable from pathologic hematuria associated with many naturally occurring feline LUTDs.
Diagnostic imaging of the feline lower urinary tract.	Survey radiography, double contrast cystography, and antegrade urethrocystography are valuable imaging tools available to the clinician for evaluation of cats with lower urinary tract disease. However, to be cost effective during patient evaluation, diagnostic radiographic procedures should be used only when needed. An algorithm is presented that describes when radiographic imaging techniques may be most cost effective in providing useful information during the clinical workup of cats with lower urinary tract disease.
A haematuria diagnostic service.	In a haematuria diagnostic service, covering experience with 95 patients, 12 new cases of cancer of the bladder, one of cancer of the kidney, and one of cancer of the penis were identified--all at an early stage. Patients presenting with haematuria were investigated rapidly without disruption of the routine work of the urological unit. Patients who identified the symptoms and sought advice early were given a definite diagnosis quickly, and treatment for any malignant disease was started early. The delay that undoubtedly endangers patients' lives has been considerably reduced by this service.
Fiberoptic transillumination: a new tool for the pediatric surgeon.	Transillumination (TI) is a safe and reliable technique for evaluating masses or the presence of free air in the thorax or abdomen. TI can also be of help in the accurate placement of catheters or needles in the chest, abdomen, bladder, or vessels. Its use in several hundred cases has been documented by this report.
