Urethral dilation in women: a questionnaire-based analysis of practice patterns.	To assess current practice patterns among urologists and to determine the perceived efficacy of urethral dilation. Urethral dilation has been advocated as a treatment for a variety of urologic disorders in women for several decades. Recent changes in Medicare reimbursement have again focused attention on this issue.
Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs)--a synoptic overview for urologists.	The classical bacteria that cause venereal diseases, e.g. gonorrhea, syphilis, chancroid and inguinal granuloma only account for a small proportion of all known STDs today. Other bacteria and viruses as well as yeasts, protozoa and epizoa must also be regarded as causative organisms of STD. Taken together, all sexually transmitted infections (STI) comprise more than 30 relevant STD pathogens. However, not all pathogens that can be sexually transmitted manifest diseases in the genitals and not all infections of the genitals are exclusively sexually transmitted. Concise information and tables summarising the diagnostic and therapeutic management of STDs in the field of Urology allow a synoptic overview and are in agreement with recent international guidelines of other specialties. Special considerations (i.e. HIV infection, pregnancy, infants, allergy) and recommended regimens may be looked up here.
A simple method for insertion of an intraprostatic coil.	A simplified method of insertion of a urethral coil for treatment of benign prostatic obstruction has been tested in 25 patients. The prostatic urethra is measured either by abdominal/transrectal ultrasound scanning or by rigid or flexible endoscopy. The coil is inserted into the prostatic urethra using simple measurements taken from a Foley catheter; 21 coils were correctly positioned at the first attempt using this new method--a success rate equivalent to that of ultrasound-guided insertion.
Production and use of fibrin glue at blood transfusion service of Bellaria-Maggiore Hospital Bologna.	FG is created by combining the two principal clotting factors found in plasma, fibrinogen and thrombin, whose natural function is to halt bleeding and seal tissues. We determined the safety, and efficacy of autologous FG by an automated device CryoSeal FS System. This procedure allows the blood transfusion center to produce a standardized product having similar characteristics of the pharmaceutical products available on the market and to produce a consistent amount of FG components from a single unit of autologous blood. The study involved a retrospective controlled evaluation of urologic patients compared with a control group operated of radical perineal prostatectomy. Blood loss difference is not significant. The hospital stay of the study group is shorter then the control group. The control group received more unit of homologous blood compared to the study group. This acquisition is suggestive for hypothetical blood saving.
Botulinum toxin in urology. Indications and results]	Botulinum toxin is a presynaptic neuromuscular blocking agent inducing selective and reversible muscle weakness for up to several months when injected intramuscularly. In urology, indications for botulinum A toxin injections have been reported in detrusor-sphincter dyssynergia, neurogenic detrusor over activity and benign prostatic hyperplasia. Randomized controlled studies are available for these indications. During the last few years, the indications have been expanded to include chronic retention, chronic pelvic pain, and motor and sensory urinary urge incontinence. However, further research is needed on the efficacy and safety as well as the dilution, dose and number of injection sites.
Positron emission tomography (PET) for diagnosis and monitoring of treatment for urological tumors]	Positron emission tomography (PET) using ((18)F)2-fluoro-D-2-desoxyglucose (FDG) has been shown to be a highly sensitive and specific imaging modality in the diagnosis of primary and recurrent tumors and in the control of therapies in numerous non-urologic cancers. It was the aim of this review to validate the significance of PET as a diagnostic tool in malignant tumors of the urogenital tract. A systematic review of the current literature concerning the role of PET for malignant tumors of the kidney, testicles, prostate, and bladder was carried out. The role of FDG PET for renal cell cancer can be seen in the detection of recurrences after definitive local therapy and metastases. The higher sensitivity of PET in comparison to other therapeutic modalities (CT, ultrasound, MRI) in recurrent and metastatic renal cell cancer suggests a supplemental role of this diagnostic procedure to complement other imaging modalities.The clinical value of PET is established for the identification of vital tumor tissue after chemotherapy of seminomatous germ cell tumors. This diagnostic method has little significance for primary tumor staging and diagnosis of non-seminomatous germ cell tumor because of the high probability of false-negative results in adult teratomas. FDG PET is not sensitive enough in the diagnosis of primary or recurrent tumors in prostate or bladder cancer. Also PET did not prove to be superior to conventional bone scintigram in the detection of mostly osteoblastic metastases in prostate cancer. The recent use of alternative tracers, which are partly not eliminated by urinary secretion (acetate, choline) has increased the sensitivity and specificity of PET also in this tumor entity so that further clinical investigations are needed to validate these technical modifications in their significance for this imaging modality. PET appears to be sufficiently evaluated only for the diagnostic follow-up of patients with seminomatous germ cell tumors after chemotherapy to regard it is the diagnostic tool of first choice. For all other tumors of the urogenital tract this proof is still awaited.
New techniques in computed tomography. Significance for urology]	Computed tomographic (CT) imaging has become the modality of choice for the assessment of patients with urological malignancies. Recently, multi-slice CT imaging was introduced, providing faster acquisition times and higher resolution leading to improved image quality. Several studies show that thin-slice, high-resolution acquisition strategies lead to an improved accuracy for T-staging, especially of renal cell carcinomas. Three-dimensional post-processing techniques for the visualization of the vascular supply as well as the ureter (CT-angiography and CT-urography) are helpful for surgical planning. Compared to conventional imaging strategies unenhanced CT images render higher sensitivities and specificities for detecting stone disease in patients with acute flank pain. In the USA unenhanced CT imaging has almost replaced conventional urography, as no contrast agent is administered and the examination time is shorter. PET/CT examinations provide information on the morphology and function of tumors in one examination. However, there are only few data available for the assessment of urologic tumors.
Magnetic resonance imaging in urology. Current techniques]	Due to low costs and common availability, ultrasonography and computed tomography still represent the most common diagnostic tools in uroradiology. However, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is gaining more and more importance since this imaging modality allows for a comprehensive examination of almost the complete spectrum of urologic diseases, including congenital malformations. The most important advantages of MRI are the free choice of slice orientation, high soft tissue contrast and high resolution as well as the lack of radiation. Technical progresses in hard and software components have led to a reduction in acquisition time, allowing for real-time imaging as well as MR angiography and MR urography with a significant reduction in motion artifacts. In addition, contrast enhanced MRI represents the imaging modality of choice in patients with reduced renal function or known allergy against iodinated contrast agent.
Tele-diagnostic and therapeutic guidance in urology.	To design a Web-based network for diagnostic and therapeutic guidance in urology.
The probiotic approach: an alternative treatment option in urology.	The prophylactic and therapeutic use of probiotic microorganisms is a wide and still controversial field. The review paper is aimed to summarize recent findings on the health-benefiting effects of probiotics in urological diseases. The use of certain beneficial strains against urogenital infections, bladder cancer recurrence and renal stone formation is discussed.
Complexed prostate specific antigen density is better than the other PSA derivatives for detection of prostate cancer in men with total PSA between 2.5 and 20 ng/ml: results of a prospective multicenter study.	This prospective, multicenter study was initiated to evaluate the diagnostic performance of PSA, free/total PSA (f/tPSA) and complexed PSA (cPSA) with volume-based parameters for early detection of prostate cancer in patients with PSA between 2.5 and 20 ng/ml.
Antibacterial prophylaxis in urology: a review.	The role of antibacterial prophylaxis in urology has been debated for more than 50 years. Even though controversy remains, an increasing number of physicians now support the use of prophylactic antibacterial agents in urologic surgery. This review attempts to place in perspective the value of prophylaxis for various urologic procedures in which infection is likely to occur. Prophylactic antibacterial therapy is recommended for urethral catheterization, endoscopy of the urinary tract, prostate biopsy, transurethral surgery, and selected open urologic procedures. Broad-spectrum cephalosporins and penicillins are used most often, while fluoroquinolones are being evaluated with increasing frequency.
Complications of clam enterocystoplasty with particular reference to urinary tract infection.	A study was carried out on 112 patients who had undergone a clam procedure. Follow-up extended from 15 months to 8 years. The efficacy of the operation in achieving and maintaining continence in patients with instability and hyper-reflexia was confirmed (93% in the neuropathic group, 91% in the congenital instability group and 78% in the idiopathic group). Complications were common and included inability to void (requiring self-catheterisation), haematuria, mucus production and recurrent urinary tract infection. Complete bacteriological data were obtained on 80 patients; 30% were infected pre-operatively (all but 4 in the neuropathic group) but 66% had bacteriuria at the time of assessment after surgery. Subjectively, 17 patients (24%) who "never" got infected had bacteriuria, as did 29 (63%) of those who were "occasionally" infected. Objectively, 84% of patients on intermittent self-catheterisation (ISC) had positive cultures, but even in those voiding spontaneously bacteriuria was present in 60%. Careful follow-up of these patients is mandatory and a more rigorous approach to eradication of infection and subsequent prophylaxis has been instituted.
(Poly)acrylonitrile-based hydrogel as a therapeutic bulking agent in urology.	Vesicoureteral reflux and urinary incontinence can be treated by endoscopic injection. Injectables such as collagen and hyaluronic acid-dextranomer are commonly used, however are not offering optimal therapeutic effect yet. In the present study a novel application for poly(acrylonitrile)-based hydrogel (Hypan), already tested in other clinical indications, has been investigated for its aptitude as an injectable bulking agent. This non-degradable, extremely hydrophilic hydrogel has the capacity of a 6-fold swelling once implanted into the body, assuring the bulking effect. Deposits of this bulking agent have been implanted into the submucosal space of the bladder of 6 minipigs and the histological reaction, as well as the physical implant behavior have been studied over a time period of 6 months. The implants have developed the desired bulking effect by the above-described hydrophilic swelling. They have been enclosed into a fine fibrous tissue capsule and provoked a very limited inflammatory reaction. This study has showed that poly(acrylonitrile)-based hydrogel implants injected into the bladder are well tolerated and, due to their defined bulking ability, feasible for the treatment of vesico-ureteral reflux and urinary incontinence. To determine the therapeutic efficiency of this treatment the implants will be studied in a vesicoureteral reflux and urinary incontinence animal model.
Fixed drug eruption of the penis secondary to sulfamethoxazole-trimethoprim.	Penile lesions are encountered in a variety of fields from family medicine practice through urology, to sexual health specialists. It is important that practitioners consider and recognize fixed drug eruptions of the penis while being able to initiate appropriate treatment in order to avoid misdiagnosis and avoidable stress. In summary, withdrawal of the offending medication and initiation of corticosteroid therapy remain the cornerstones of treatment of fixed drug eruptions of the penis.
A simple radiological technique for demonstration of incorrect positioning of a foley catheter with balloon inflated in the urethra of a male spinal cord injury patient.	In a male patient with cervical spinal cord injury, the urinary bladder may go into spasm when a urethral catheter is removed and a new Foley catheter is inserted. Before the balloon is inflated, the spastic bladder may push the Foley catheter out or the catheter may slip out of a small-capacity bladder. An inexperienced health professional may inflate the balloon of a Foley catheter in the urethra without realizing that the balloon segment of the catheter is lying in the urethra instead of the urinary bladder. When a Foley balloon is inflated in the urethra, a tetraplegic patient is likely to develop autonomic dysreflexia. This is a medical emergency and requires urgent treatment. Before the incorrectly placed Foley catheter is removed, it is important to document whether the balloon has been inflated in the urinary bladder or not. The clinician should first use the always available tools of observation and palpation at the bedside without delays of transportation. A misplaced balloon will often be evident by a long catheter sign, indicating excessive catheter remaining outside the patient. Radiological diagnosis is not frequently required and, when needed, should employ the technique most readily available, which might be a body and pelvic CT without intravenous contrast. An alternative radiological technique to demonstrate the position of the balloon of the Foley catheter is described. Three milliliters of nonionic X-ray contrast medium, Ioversol (OPTIRAY 300), is injected through the side channel of the Foley catheter, which is used for inflating the balloon. Then, with a catheter-tip syringe, 30 ml of sterile Ioversol is injected through the main lumen of the Foley catheter. Immediately thereafter, an X-ray of the pelvis (including perineum) is taken. By this technique, both the urinary bladder and balloon of the Foley catheter are visualized by the X-ray contrast medium. When a Foley catheter has been inserted correctly, the balloon of the Foley catheter should be located within the urinary bladder, but when the Foley catheter is misplaced with the balloon inflated in the urethra, a round opaque shadow of the Foley balloon is seen separately below the urinary bladder. This radiological study takes only a few minutes to perform, can be carried out bedside with a mobile X-ray machine, and does not require special expertise or preparations, unlike transrectal ultrasonography. When a Foley balloon is inflated in the urethra, abdominal ultrasonography will show an absence of the Foley balloon within the bladder. The technique described above aids in positive demonstration of a Foley balloon lying outside the urinary bladder. Such documentation proves valuable in planning future treatment, education of health professionals, and settlement of malpractice claims.
Robot-assisted radical cystectomy in the management of bladder cancer.	The application of robotic technology to laparoscopic surgery has the potential to revolutionize the entire field of urology. The use of robotic-assisted radical cystectomy has been demonstrated in the literature only within the past 3 years, as much of the reconstruction and urinary diversion techniques associated with radical cystectomy are considered more technically challenging than other procedures. Here we review the available literature pertaining to this procedure, which consists of a limited number of case reports, case series, and pilot or feasibility studies. While theses results seem to point towards less blood loss, lower transfusion rates, and shorter hospital stays compared to open radical cystectomy, definitive conclusions and recommendations cannot yet be made because of a lack of larger and/or prospective studies or randomized trials.
The role of the surgeon and transurethral resection in the treatment of superficial bladder cancer.	Non-muscle invasive bladder cancers are a heterogeneous group of cancers whose spectrum includes low grade Ta lesions and high-grade T1 lesions. Accurate staging and grading during initial evaluation and TUR ensures appropriate treatment and prevents the risk of understaging. TUR should be ideally performed under spinal anesthesia, with a continuous flow video resectoscope to maintain a stable bladder capacity, and a video monitor. The entire bladder must be visualized, with both 30- and 70-degree lenses, and all abnormal areas must be resected, with separate biopsies from each tumor's base. Repeat TUR is recommended for all high grade tumors and T1 tumors, especially if muscle was not present in the initial specimen. Immediate instillation of single dose chemotherapy agents following TUR is highly recommended to reduce the risk of tumor recurrences.
New strategies in the treatment of Ta-T1 transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder.	In recent years, there have been many advances in the treatment of superficial bladder cancer. Standard intravesical chemotherapeutic agents can now be delivered more effectively thanks to new technological advances in drug delivery. Local microwave hyperthermia and electromotive drug administration are of particular interest. Research has also shown that different combinations of drugs and sequential drug delivery of two or more different drugs for differing periods of time also increase the effectiveness of possible treatments of superficial bladder cancer. Furthermore, new chemotherapeutic drugs for intravesical use are being investigated in various clinical trials, with gemcitabine showing particularly promising results. Also in the pipeline are new approaches to treatment such as gene therapy, but these will need to be developed much more before they become part of routine practice.
Best approach for low-risk superficial bladder cancer.	In order to create better criteria for different grades of superficial bladder tumor, the WHO and ISUOP develop a new classification in 1998, which was modified in 2004. Although the new classification might be more reproducible, it has not yet been widely accepted. The low risk groups include patients with single Ta, G1, < or = 3 cm diameter tumors. This group has high recurrence and low progression rates. The standard treatment is the complete resection and postoperative single immediate instillation of whatever chemotherapy agent should be considered.
Handling and reporting of radical prostatectomy specimens in Europe: a web-based survey by the European Network of Uropathology (ENUP).	To survey current European practices in handling and reporting of radical prostatectomy (RP) specimens.
The place of ultrasound in urogynaecology clinic.	Urinary incontinence is a silent epidemic severely affecting the quality of life of women. Clinical assessment alone has been shown to be an ineffective way of assessing women with lower urinary tract dysfunction; hence, there is a need for urodynamic studies. Nevertheless, urodynamics cannot explain all the symptoms and is not always available. Ultrasound scan is becoming more useful in the field of urogynaecology. It is safe, non-invasive and acceptable technique for the patients. In this review, we explore the place of modern ultrasound in managing women attending urogynaecology clinic.
Surgical reconstruction of pelvic floor descent: anatomic and functional aspects.	The human pelvic floor is a complex structure and pelvic floor dysfunction is seen frequently in females.
Experience with various types of orthotopic neobladder in Japanese men: long-term follow-up.	The objective of this study was to review the long-term outcomes of orthotopic neobladder (NB) creation.
Urine cytology in the evaluation of urological malignancy revisited: is it still necessary?	We aim to determine if urine cytology was still necessary as a routine part of the evaluation for the presence of urological malignancy and to evaluate its cost effectiveness.
Urodynamic evaluation of urinary disturbances following traumatic brain injury.	To identify the incidence and the type of voiding dysfunction by doing urodynamic studies (UDS) in head injury patients. The purpose of this paper is to present our findings and promote research in this field.
The first description of an extramedullary plasmacytoma of the ureter.	Causes for acquired unilateral obstruction of the ureter are numerous: calculi, infections, blood clots and tumors are the most common underlying pathologies. Hematologic tumors with initial clinical manifestation in the lower urinary tract are rare. Primary localization of plasmocytoma has been described in kidney, bladder and urethra. Herein, we describe the first manifestation of a primary solitary extramedullary plasmacytoma of the ureter. The tumor was discovered upon diagnostic workup of gross hematuria and asymptomatic hydronephrosis. Thus far, after radical surgery the patient remains free of disease.
Application of cardiac autonomous indices in the study of neurogenic erectile dysfunction.	A research area of increasing interest consists of studying the benefits of using spectral analysis to screen neurogenic erectile dysfunctions. Our hypothesis is that spectral analysis consists of a non-invasive and simple procedure to investigate such patients. Subjects were allocated into two groups: control, no erectile dysfunction (n = 17), and patients with erectile dysfunction (n = 15). RR intervals (RRI), systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure and baroreflex sensitivity recordings were performed continuously in the supine position, followed by the seated position, and finally standing position. In the supine position, the control group had a higher RRI and a lower diastolic blood pressure. For frequency domain analyses of RRI in the supine position, the erectile dysfunction group had a higher normalized low-frequency (LF) index and low-frequency/high-frequency (LF/HF) ratio while showing a lower normalized HF index. In the seated position, the erectile dysfunction group presented a higher LF/HF ratio. Regarding systolic blood pressure, the erectile dysfunction group showed lower normalized LF and higher normalized HF indices only in the supine position. The α index in HF was lower in the erectile dysfunction group in the three positions. Spectral analyses of cardiac sympathovagal drive constitute a fruitful non-invasive approach to evaluate alterations in cardiovascular autonomic modulation in neurogenic erectile dysfunction patients.
A survey conducted on patients' and urologists' perceptions of benign prostatic hyperplasia.	To better understand the discrepancy that may exist between urologists and patients on various aspects of their perception of benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH).
Hypebaric oxygen treatment in urology.	Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO) has been successfully used in several disorders derived from tissue hypoxia, due to the extra oxygen supply to the tissues it enables. In this manuscript we performed a systematic review including all the existing data published until 2010 about HBO in urologic disorders.
The burden of specialist urologic care in abuja, federal capital city, Nigeria: a single surgeons 4-year case load.	Urologic surgery is believed to form a major part of the surgical workload in many centers but this volume of clinical workload has not been extensively reported. Abuja is Nigeria's capital with a population of about 4 million residents. There are a total of fourteen public general and specialist hospitals with 6 consultant Urologists working in only three of these hospital serving the population. It is not known what proportion of the total surgical workload in Abuja is urological.
Antibiotic stewardship: a call for action by the urologic community.	Increasing antibiotic resistance and lack of new antibiotics in the near future calls for a variety of coordinated strategies called "Antibiotic stewardship", to improve antibiotic use with the goal of enhancing patient health outcomes and reducing emergence of resistance to antibiotics. 
A review of inpatient urology consultations in an Irish tertiary referral centre.	Our institution is a 680-bed tertiary referral centre with broad medical and surgical subspecialty services. We retrospectively audited the pattern of inpatient consultations from all specialities within our institution to the urology department over a 1-year period.
Ergonomic status of laparoscopic urologic surgery: survey results from 241 urologic surgeons in china.	The prolonged and frequent use of laparoscopic equipment raises ergonomic risks that may cause physical distress for surgeons. We aimed to assess the prevalence of urologic surgeons' physical distress associated with ergonomic problems in the operating room (OR) and their awareness of the ergonomic guidelines in China.
Renal transplantation: technical aspects, diagnosis and management of early and late urological complications.	Renal transplantation represents actually the most effective therapy in patients with end-stage renal failure as it is cost effective, allows for a normal life style and reduces the risk of mortality from dialysis related complications. Renal transplantation can be classified in deceased- donor or living-donor transplantation, depending on the source of the donor organ. The short-term results of transplants with kidneys from donors over 65 years old are almost similar to those with younger organs, but in these patients it is mandatory to reduce cold ischemia time. In the last years, the demand for kidney transplantation has increased dramatically, which has been associated with an increase in living-donor organ procurement, which presents several advantages. Moreover, new operative techniques have been recently developed in order to improve surgical outcomes and graft survival and to reduce the complications' rate after renal transplantation. The purpose of the present review is to evaluate the published literature regarding the technical aspects and the urological complications associated with renal transplantation. 
Robotic surgery in pediatric urology.	Minimally invasive laparoscopic procedures for urological diseases in children have proven to be safe and effective, with outcomes comparable to open procedures. Technical advances, including improved instruments and high-definition cameras, have contributed to the expanded role of minimal invasive surgery (MIS) in children. The major drawback to laparoscopy has been the relatively steep learning curve due to the technical difficulties of suturing and the limitations of instrument dexterity and range of motion. Recently, robotic-assisted laparoscopic surgery (RAS) has gained popularity in both adult and pediatric urology. RAS has several advantages over conventional laparoscopic surgery, particularly in the improved exposure via magnified 3-dimensional view and simplification of suturing with the increased degree of freedom and movement of the robotic arm. This review discusses the role of RAS in pediatric urology and provides technical aspects of RAS in specific urologic procedures as well. 
Alternative sexualities: implications for the urologist.	Urologists routinely deal with sensitive issues of urinary function as well as sexuality in daily practice. Even experienced urologists may encounter patients who engage in sexual practices that are novel, unknown, or perhaps disturbing to the provider. This primer will serve as an introduction to sexual practices and lifestyle choices that may be foreign to many practicing urologists. It is by no means an exhaustive description of alternative sexualities, but will hopefully serve as a useful introduction to the topic and will enhance the ability of providers to care for, or appropriately refer, patients whose sexual practices and lifestyles may differ from their own. 
Management of incontinence: a urological approach.	This article reviews a urologist's approach to urinary incontinence with particular reference to incontinence in men. Many of the general remarks apply equally to men and women and in choosing to refer your patient to a urologist for further management of incontinence, the decision should seldom be based solely on the sex or age of the patient but on concomitant urological symptoms.
A new technique for retrograde stone displacement in the tortuous ureter before extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy.	A tortuous ureter can prevent a ureteral calculus from being manipulated into the kidney before extracorporeal shock wave lithotripsy. We describe a technique using a floppy-tip guide wire and a double channel cystoscope to manipulate a stone from a tortuous ureter into the kidney.
Urinary diversion in hypospadias surgery 1987.	To determine which form of urinary diversion is most effective for each type of hypospadias, we polled all full-time practicing pediatric urologists in the United States and Canada. Each was asked to complete a questionnaire, specifying the method of urinary diversion used, based on the severity of the hypospadias. Ninety-eight per cent (84 of 86) of the urologists contacted replied to the survey. Our findings suggest that: Urinary diversion is usually not necessary for very mild types of hypospadias. Intraurethral drainage is the preferred form of diversion for moderate types of hypospadias. Suprapubic drainage with an intraurethral stent is the favored means of diversion for severe types of hypospadias. Perineal urethrostomy is rarely used today in hypospadias surgery.
Genuine stress urinary incontinence with low urethral pressure. Five-year follow-up after the Ball-Burch procedure.	To evaluate long-term results of the Ball-Burch procedure in women with genuine stress incontinence (GSI), low urethral pressure type.
Penile revascularization.	Penile revascularization surgery to correct penile vascular insufficiency has undergone several modifications since its introduction. Further improvement in the surgical success rate will be achieved with improved understanding of erectile physiology, diagnostic methodology, and both microsurgical and radiological techniques.
Augmentation phalloplasty.	Aesthetic procedures can increase the girth and visual length of the penis. Dermal-fat grafts increase penile circumference without the complications that result from fat injections. Release of the suspensory ligaments with skin advancement may increase flaccid penile length. Suprapubic lipectomy and Z-plasty of a penoscrotal web enhance penile appearance. Accurate diagnosis and meticulous technique are mandatory.
Long-term results and complications using augmentation cystoplasty in reconstructive urology.	One hundred and twenty-two augmentation cystoplasties performed over an 8-year period were reviewed. Mean age at surgery was 37 years (range 2-82 years). There were 82 female patients. The primary urodynamic diagnosis was reduced compliance in 92 (77%) patients and detrusor hyperreflexia/instability in the remainder. The clinical diagnostic groups were: spinal cord injury/disease in 32 (27%), myelodysplasia in 27 (22%), interstitial cystitis in 21 (17%), idiopathic detrusor instability in 13 (11%), radiation cystitis in 8 (7%), Hinman-Allen syndrome in 5 (4%), and miscellaneous in 11 (9%). A detubularized ileal augmentation was used in 82 (67%) patients. In 36 (30%) a detubularized ileocecocystoplasty was fashioned and in the remainder detubularized sigmoid was used. In 19 patients augmentation accompanied undiversion. Sixteen patients had a simultaneous fascial sling for urethral incompetence. Mean follow-up was 37 months (range 6-96 months). There was no postoperative mortality. During follow-up 4 patients died from unrelated causes, 11 have been lost to follow-up, and 5 patients await planned transplantation. Bladder capacity was increased from a preoperative mean of 108 ml (range 15-500 ml) to 438 ml (200-1,200 ml) postoperatively. Of the 106 assessable patients, 80 (75%) had an excellent result, 21 (20%) were improved, and 5 (5%) had major ongoing problems. During the period of follow-up, 17 (16%) patients underwent revision of their augmentation. Twenty-four (21%) patients developed bladder stones and 30% of these did so more than once. Urinary incontinence became manifest in 15 (13%) patients but required surgical treatment in only half of these. Pyelonephritis occurred in 13 (11%) patients. Five patients developed small bowel obstruction following discharge from hospital. There were 7 instances of reservoir rupture in 5 (4%) patients. Augmentation cystoplasty has a pivotal role in the treatment of a broad range of lower and upper urinary tract problems. Careful patient selection and close follow-up are essential.
Spermatology, a whole separate discipline]	The diagnosis of semen anomalies is mainly subjective and requires therefore extensive training. Presently, no automated technology, no recent exam has proven to be superior to the spermogram and the analysis of sperm penetration into cervical mucus for the diagnosis and prognosis of male infertility. Furthermore, the preparation of an abnormal semen for insemination or IVF requires a good experience of the different techniques and a lot of time. Even when the number of motile spermatozoa recovered reaches normal values, the pregnancy rate is always low when compared with the results obtained with a normal sperm.
Percutaneous internal ureteral stent placement: review of technical issues and solutions in 50 consecutive cases.	Fifty consecutive percutaneous ureteral stent placements in 40 patients over 2 1/2 years were reviewed. Thirty-seven of 50 cases were performed following failed retrograde stenting. Antegrade stenting failed in 2/37 (5%) cases of malignant obstruction, and 4/13 (31%) cases of benign ureteral disease. Causes of failure and common technical problems included poor angulation of the percutaneous track, tortuous dilated ureters, tight obstructions, wedging of stent assembly components due to high resistance, and difficulty in positioning of the proximal pigtail. Helpful technical modifications included mid-pole rather than lower pole calyceal access, urinary decompression prior to stenting, and the routine use of a peel-away sheath (success rate 23/24 placements with sheath vs 21/26 without sheath). Stent patency rates were 95% at 3 months and 54% at 6 months. With attention to technique and appropriate modifications, success rate of percutaneous stenting remained high in this series despite the large number of cases referred after retrograde stenting had failed.
Use of intravenous alfentanil-midazolam anesthesia for sedation during brief endourologic procedures.	Traditionally, general or regional anesthesia has been employed during endourologic procedures. The success of sedative-analgesic sedation during SWL prompted an investigation into its use in minor endourologic procedures. We compared intravenous alfentanil-midazolam anesthesia (n = 30) with spinal anesthesia (n = 35) during procedures such as ureteroscopy and stent placement using physiologic measures and patient and anesthetist ratings. The former series was prospective; the latter was retrospective. Physiologic measures remained stable and oxygen saturation was above 90% in all patients in both groups during the procedures. The average anesthesia and recovery room times were significantly shorter for patients given alfentanilmidazolam: 23.3 v 36.1 minutes and 85.5 v 179.6 minutes, respectively (P < 0.001; t-test), and this difference reduced the anesthesia cost an average of 46%. The anesthetists rated the intravenous regimen satisfactory in 92% of the patients, and 94% of the patients rated the procedure as comfortable. All 18 of the patients who had previously had spinal anesthesia considered alfentanil-midazolam superior. Intravenous alfentanil-midazolam sedation anesthesia can provide adequate analgesia for many minor endourologic procedures while shortening the anesthesia recovery time.
Quantification of bladder outlet obstruction by measurement of urethral opening pressure using an adapted fluid bridge test.	A new technique for measuring urethral opening pressure above the distal sphincter is described, based on the fluid bridge test. This test eliminates many of the inaccuracies produced when using standard pressure flow studies. Nineteen males were studied, 15 of whom had cystometric evidence of bladder outlet obstruction, the other 4 being unobstructed. The mean urethral opening pressure in the obstructed group was 69 cm H2O (range 44-124) and in the unobstructed group 19 cm H2O (range 16-22). The test is simple to perform and is not affected by muscular activity in the pelvic floor or the time lag between detrusor pressure and flow rate measurement.
Transtrigonal approach for excision of müllerian duct structures.	Persistent müllerian structures attached to the prostatic urethra in the male may cause urinary incontinence and infection. The transtrigonal technique allows complete excision with preservation of normal bladder function and control. We describe the operative technique in detail.
Further study of Sushruta's lateral perineal approach for primary repair of the ruptured posterior urethra.	Using Sushruta's lateral perineal approach, 16 primary repairs for complete rupture of the posterior urethra were carried out between January 1987 and November 1991. This approach to the urethra is short, safe, simple and direct; operative and post-operative complications are minimal and the total recovery period is short.
A new method for assessing sphincter resistance, in patients with low compliant bladder]	Since 1990, in our department we have planned out a test to find out the grade of sphincteric resistance in patients with low compliant bladders. In order to know which patients will have a sufficient sphincteric resistance to achieve satisfactory continence after bladder augmentation and which patients will not have sufficient sphincteric resistance, needing procedures to increase outlet resistance along with bladder augmentation. This test consisted in: to determine what volume the bladder can admit at a detrusor pressure of 10 cm H2 O, we fill the bladder at that volume and then, we check if the patient had leaks with abdominal pressure increases. The study was carried out in 15 patients with low compliant bladders and suffering from incontinence, who had not responded to I.C. and anticholinergic therapy, who was to undergo bladder augmentation. In 12 patients the test was negative and in 3 was positive. After bladder augmentation, all patients with negative tests, are completely dry, and the three patients whose test was positive, in spite of having urodynamically normal neobladder they remain incontinent. In our opinion, this test is simple to perform and very useful diagnostic tool to known which patients beside bladder augmentation, may need procedures to increase outlet resistance.
Retroperitoneal and pelvic extraperitoneal laparoscopy: an international perspective.	To assess technical preferences and current practice trends of retroperitoneal and pelvic extraperitoneal laparoscopy.
Variability in patient preparation for prostate biopsy among American urologists.	To assess the variability in patient preparation for prostate biopsy (PBX) among practicing American urologists.
