Testicular-sparing surgery for benign testicular tumors.	Although there has been a precedent of testicular-sparing surgery in some centers, the authors find it is still not general practice among pediatric surgeons. To address this and emphasize the role of testicular-sparing surgery in children, four patients with testicular masses are presented who underwent this procedure.
Augmentation ileocystoplasty as a treatment of vesicoureteral injury following rectal amputation: a case report]	A 65-year-old man underwent transperineal drainage of pelvic abscess after rectal amputation for rectal cancer. The bladder wall and right ureter were injured during this operation, which led to vesicoperineal fistula and contracted bladder. We performed partial resection of the bladder (fistulectomy), augmentation ileocystoplasty (Cup-patch technique), and bilateral ureteral reimplantation (LeDuc-Camey technique). After surgery, the patient was able to void without any residual urine or incontinence. There was no hydronephrosis or resicoureteral reflux postoperatively. Augmentation cystoplasty is usually performed to treat a contracted bladder, but it can also be applied for the reconstruction of complicated lower urinary tract injury, and may improve the quality of life (QOL) dramatically.
Reoperative Snodgrass procedure.	We examine the results of a reoperative Snodgrass procedure for complex hypospadias.
Proximal hypospadias. Comparative evaluation of staged urethroplasty (modified Thiersch Duplay followed by Mathieu) and single stage on-lay island flap repair.	Comparative analysis of functional results, complications, cosmesis, operative time and hospital stay between staged urethroplasty and single-stage on-lay island flap for proximal hypospadias.
Testicular torsion: a twist to the tale.	Testicular torsion is a surgical emergency that requires prompt exploration if testicular viability is to be maintained. Although rare, it is essential to be aware that it may occur despite previous fixation (orchidopexy). Testicular torsion occurring after previous orchidopexy is rare, but recognition of this possibility is essential to prevent testicular infarction and subsequent orchidectomy. During scrotal exploration a wide variety of methods for orchidopexy exist. We present a case of testicular torsion despite previous fixation and discuss the merits of various techniques available for orchidopexy.
Laparoscopic evaluation of testicular mobility as a guide to management of intra-abdominal testes.	The optimal management of intra-abdominal testes is the subject of an ongoing debate as the result of widespread use of laparoscopy since early 1990's. A simple laparoscopic technique uses cord mobility to act as a guide to cord length and therefore predict the success of a conventional orchidopexy in cases of true intra-abdominal testes. In the technique described, the testis is displaced by stretching the testes to overly the opposite internal inguinal ring. Over a 3-year period, a total of 36 boys with 38 intra-abdominal testes, confirmed laparoscopically, were prospectively assessed. The reported "stretching maneuver" was carried out in all cases. Successful conventional orchidopexy as predicted by a positive stretch maneuver was carried out in 20 testes. When the stretch maneuver failed, conventional 2-stage open operation was done in 3 patients and Fowler-Stephens orchidopexies for the remaining 13 children. A simple test determining testicular mobility assessed during laparoscopic evaluation of intra-abdominal testes provides information of significant importance upon which the correct surgical approach can be based.
Treatment of penile curvature--how to combine the advantages of simple plication and the Nesbit-procedure by superficial excision of the tunica albuginea.	Different treatment options for penile curvature exist, such as the Nesbit procedure with complete excision of the tunica albuginea or the simple plication. We prefer a modification with only superficial excision, not opening the corpora cavernosa. From January 1997 to June 2000, 68 patients were treated surgically due to penile curvature. Data was obtained from 48 patients by telephone interview. The mean penile deviation was 46 degrees. Excision of the tunica was performed only superficially and non-absorbable inverted sutures were used. The mean follow-up time in this study was 25 months. A total of 36 (75%) patients were satisfied postoperatively, 12 were unsatisfied. Eleven (23%) patients described a complete straightening, 37 (77%) a rest-curvature of 5-50 degrees (mean 14 degrees ) and 21 (44%) described a shortening of 0.5-5 cm (mean 1.2 cm). Six patients reported a recurrence. No new erectile dysfunction occurred. Superficial excision of the tunica albuginea offers the advantage of tissue-contraction due to scarring without destroying the integrity of the corpora, leading in combination with non-absorbable inverted sutures to good functional and cosmetic results.
The type of urethroplasty for a pelvic fracture urethral distraction defect cannot be predicted preoperatively.	Pelvic fracture urethral distraction defects (PFUDDs) are generally treated surgically by a so-called progression approach consisting of 4 steps to achieve a tension-free bulboprostatic anastomosis. Implicitly the need for each step in turn is predictable according to the length of the defect on preoperative x-ray.
Laparoscopic surgery for undescended testicles]	Impalpable and undescended testis is a very common preoccupation for specialized pediatric surgery teams. The laparoscopy as the single most accurate modality for diagnosis and localization of impalpable undescended gonad is well established by all authors. However the therapeutic attitude and the technique are still a matter of debate.
Adenomatoid tumor of the testes.	Adenomatoid tumors are rare benign neoplasms thought to be of mesothelial origin. Although most reported cases arise from the epididymis, rare cases have been reported in the spermatic cord, testicular tunica, ejaculatory ducts, prostate, and suprarenal recess. In female subjects, adenomatoid tumors are commonly found in the uterus and fallopian tubes. Because of the benign nature of this tumor, the treatment of choice is local excision. We describe a rare case of adenomatoid tumor of the testis treated by local excision.
Surgical treatment of the congenital curvature of the penis by the Nesbit technique]	To evaluate the results of the Nesbit technique in patients with congenital penile curvature.
Bulbourethral composite suspension:: a new operative technique for post-prostatectomy incontinence.	A new bulbourethral sling procedure is proposed for patients with post-radical prostatectomy incontinence.
Penile torsion repair using dorsal dartos flap rotation.	Counterclockwise penile torsion is a frequently noted congenital deformity. Previously proposed techniques of torsion repair are ineffective or pose significant operative risks. We introduce a novel technique using dorsal dartos flap rotation.
Buccal mucosal graft urethroplasty for reversal of a perineal urethrostomy in a goat wether.	To describe the use of buccal mucosa as a urethral graft for reversal of perineal urethrostomy (PU) in a castrated male goat.
Reconstruction of posterior urethral disruption: tips for success from our experience and from a literature review.	Repair of a posterior urethral disruption associated with a pelvic fracture is a challenge for urologic surgeons. Here, we provide surgical and strategic tips to facilitate the delayed surgical repair of urethral distraction defects. Nine patients each with a traumatic posterior urethral distraction defect underwent delayed transperineal or transperineoabdominal bulboprostatic anastomosis. Four patients had previously undergone multiple procedures. Seven patients regained satisfactory urination without incontinence, although one other patient is suffering from incontinence. In one patient, urethral disruption occurred again after removal of the urethral catheter, and he is being managed by suprapubic catheter. In our experience, the key to success is to perform a true bulboprostatic mucosa-to-mucosa anastomosis without tension. For this purpose, a transperineoabdominal approach is of particular importance when the healthy mucosa of the prostatic apex cannot be revealed through a perineal approach due to dense fibrous scar or fractured bone. A partial pubectomy may be necessary according to the situation. By the transperineoabdominal approach, the scar tissue can be bypassed through a broad sub-pubic-arch tunnel, and a reliable anastomosis achieved.
Recurrent epididymitis in a boy with a webbed penis without chordee: a case report]	An 11-year-old boy visited our clinic complaining of recurrent epididymitis for 2 years. No abnormal findings were found in urine and blood sampling tests, ultrasonography of the urinary tracts or in a pelvic magnetic resonance imaging examination. Induration of the left epididymal tail, webbed penis and true phimosis were observed. Neither hypospadias nor chordee were identified, thus the diagnosis of "webbed penis without chordee" was made. The operation for webbed penis by transverse incision followed by longitudinal suture and dorsal incision for true phimosis was performed successfully. The postoperative course was uneventful and no recurrence of epididymitis has occurred.
Scrotal incision orchiopexy for undescended testis.	To evaluate prospectively the success of scrotal incision orchiopexy (Bianchi technique) with or without inguinal hernia in patients with an undescended testis within the inguinal canal or beyond the external inguinal ring.
Buccal mucosal urethroplasty for balanitis xerotica obliterans related urethral strictures: the outcome of 1 and 2-stage techniques.	Balanitis xerotica obliterans (BXO) related strictures are complex and generally managed by 2-staged urethroplasty. We present our results with 1-stage dorsal onlay and 2-stage buccal mucosal urethroplasty for such strictures.
Absorbable versus nonabsorbable graft: outcome of bone anchored male sling for post-radical prostatectomy incontinence.	We determined the outcome of the bone anchored male sling procedure for stress urinary incontinence in men regarding the graft material used.
Split-thickness skin graft for the management of concealed penis.	We review the use of split-thickness skin grafting in children with concealed penis.
Long-term outcome of visual internal urethrotomy for the management of pediatric urethral strictures.	We evaluated the long-term results of visual internal urethrotomy for pediatric urethral strictures to evaluate the efficacy and final outcome of this procedure in children and to evaluate the risk factors for stricture recurrence.
Patient satisfaction and clinical efficacy of the new perineal bone-anchored male sling.	We retrospectively evaluated the safety, efficacy and patient satisfaction following the male sling procedure for stress urinary incontinence.
Novel technique for correcting penile curvature with severe hypospadias; ventral lengthening with tunica vaginalis flap patching.	The adequate correction of penile curvature is essential for successful hypospadias surgery. We describe a novel technique to correct severe penile curvature with a tunica vaginalis flap on the penile ventrum. We applied a tunica vaginalis flap to lengthen the ventral aspect of the tunica albuginea in two boys with significant curvature and proximal hypospadias. Tunica vaginalis flap patching to the ventral aspect of the penis is safe and technically feasible. If penile curvature is severe or the penis is small in hypospadiac patients, lengthening the ventral aspect using a tunica vaginalis flap is likely to expand instead of dorsal plication or ventral graft.
Snodgrass hypospadias repair with ventral based dartos flap in combination with mucosal collars.	In this study, we report our results of Snodgrass hypospadias repair in conjunction with use of ventral based vascularized dartos flaps. In all repairs, mucosal collars were created and incorporated into the repair to create a more normal appearing circumcised penis, as described by Firlit.
Scrotal hitch procedure to prevent apical necrosis of scroto-perineal flap for urethroplasty.	To present our experience with scrotal hitch technique to prevent necrosis of apex of scroto-perineal flap during two staged open urethroplasty for long segment complex anterior urethral strictures.
Assessment of an intraprostatic injection technique through a perineal approach in macaques.	We developed a surgical procedure for accessing the prostate gland of the cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis) through the perineal cavity. The procedure can be used for direct injection of compounds into the prostate gland and (or) for the collection of biopsies. The rationale for developing this technique at our site was the need for precise injection into the gland with a low probability of error, as the compound tested in a subsequent study required prostate-specific antigen for activation. A perianal incision was made approximately 1 cm ventral to the anus, and the muscle and subcutaneous tissue were bluntly dissected between the urethra and the rectum. The prostate gland was easily visualized after dissection, and could be grasped gently by the capsule and exteriorized through the incision, thus allowing easy access to the prostate for study purposes. On the basis of mock injections with methylene blue dye and gross observation of prostate tissue at necropsies immediately after injection, we recommend that 2 injections be given per lobe of prostate, and injections should be to a depth of 2 to 3 mm to provide uniform distribution of injected compounds. To minimize back pressure and leakage from the injection site, a smallgauge needle (23-27 gauge) should be used and the needle held in place for approximately 30 s before withdrawal. Injection volumes 64 mul per g prostate or less did not cause the back flow of methylene blue dye into the seminal vesicles.
Staged pendulous-prostatic anastomotic urethroplasty followed by reconstruction of the anterior urethra: an effective treatment for long-segment bulbar and membranous urethral stricture.	To describe a novel surgical technique for male long-segment urethral stricture after pelvic trauma using the intact and pedicled pendulous urethra to replace the bulbar and membranous urethra, followed by reconstruction of the anterior urethra.
Efficacy of the InVance male sling in men with stress urinary incontinence.	To evaluate the efficacy and safety of the InVance bulbourethral sling in male stress urinary incontinence.
Bulbourethral composite suspension for treatment of male-acquired urinary incontinence.	We evaluated the efficacy of bulbourethral composite sling procedure in the treatment of male urinary incontinence after radical prostatectomy, transurethral resection of the prostate, or prostatic enucleation for benign prostatic hyperplasia, and posterior urethroplasty.
One-stage penectomy and phalloplasty for epithelioid sarcoma of the penis in an adolescent.	Epithelioid sarcoma (ES) of the penis is a rare tumour. We present a case of ES of the penis in a 16-yr-old boy, for which penectomy and immediate reconstruction with a free forearm phalloplasty, including a urethral reconstruction, was performed. Because total penectomy is a dramatic life event for any patient, the option of immediate penile reconstruction is presented. It can help to prevent major psychological problems after this kind of surgery.
Centralisation of a hypospadias repair service--the Warwickshire experience.	An audit of the hypospadias repair service provided in the county of Warwickshire has shown that centralising all referrals to a single surgeon who uses limited, well-practiced techniques, greatly improves outcome. Comparison to previous audit of the service, when provided by a number of surgeons in the region, shows complication rates dropping - fistulae occurrence reducing from 35.8% to 6.7% and urethral stricture rates showing similar improvement from 4.4% to 0%. Overall productivity increased, and referral out of region dropped from 13% to 0%. This provides definitive evidence that restructuring of a service already in place has decreased morbidity and increased efficiency to give results comparable to published data.
Fossa navicularis reconstruction: impact of stricture length on outcomes and assessment of extended meatotomy (first stage Johanson) maneuver.	We evaluated the significance of stricture length and severity on the outcome of fossa navicularis reconstruction. We also determined the efficacy and usefulness of an extended meatotomy (first stage Johanson) salvage maneuver in refractory cases.
One-stage urethral reconstruction for stricture recurrence after urethral stent placement.	We report our 8-year experience with 1-stage open urethral reconstruction in 10 patients with recurrent bulbar and/or membranous strictures after UroLume urethral stent placement.
Peyronie's disease: lights and shadows.	Peyronie's disease (PD) is characterized by the onset of fibrous plaque inside the tunica albuginea of the penile corpora cavernosa that can cause pain and bending during the erection, making intercourse difficult or impossible. Evidence of the literature supports the autoimmune etiology of PD and suggests genetic and familiar conditions, penile traumatisms, and a history of genital tract diseases as risk factors, but no definitive conclusions arise about the pathogenesis of the disease. Few randomized trials demonstrated that medical therapies, such as vitamin E, colchicine, potassium aminobenzoate, tamoxifen, and injection therapy with verapamil, can stabilize the acute phase of the disease. Extracorporeal shock wave therapy and iontophoresis cannot be considered first-line or gold standard therapies. Satisfactory results have been published with the Nesbit operation in large series with low-stage disease, whereas plication procedures have shown significant relapse rates. A high incidence of long-term penile retractions has been reported in high-stage disease treated with plaque incision and simple graft insertion. Malleable, soft, or inflatable prostheses combined with graft implantation have given the best results in terms of penile straightening and lengthening and patient satisfaction. In conclusion, the etiopathogenesis of PD is not yet clearly understood, no medical therapy is fully effective, and surgery remains the gold standard in patients with severe deformity and/or erectile dysfunction.
Successful microsurgical penile replantation after a workplace injury.	Microsurgical techniques offer the opportunity for successful replantation of the amputated penis. We report the case of a patient who sustained a traumatic penile amputation as a result of a workplace accident. Microsurgical replantation was achieved with combined urological and plastic surgical input.
Aggressive fibromatosis in the urological system. Report of two adult patients and review of the literature.	Aggressive fibromatoses (AF) are locally aggressive neoplasms that do not metastasize but are frequently associated with one or more recurrences and subsequent associated morbidity. AF in the urological system is quite rare and has mainly been described in single case reports or as isolated cases in a large series of extra-abdominal desmoid tumors. We report 2 cases of AF in the bladder and scrotum, and provide a review of similar published cases.
Dorsal inlay graft urethroplasty for primary hypospadiac repair.	Tubularized incised plate urethroplasty has become a popular technique for repairing distal and proximal hypospadias in many institutions. Dorsal inlay graft urethroplasty has been used in our institution since 2003 to reduce the risk of meatal stenosis. In the present study, we evaluated the results of the dorsal inlay graft procedure.
Small intestinal submucosa (SIS) graft urethroplasty: short-term results.	We evaluated the use of small intestinal submucosa (SIS) graft in penile and bulbar urethroplasties.
Modification of retropubic adenomectomy: improved hemostasis and outcome.	Our modification is based on the employment of the ligation of both the deep dorsal penile vein (DDPV) and the lateral vesicoprostatic pedicles before enucleation of adenoma in retropubic adenomectomy, for treatment of bladder outflow obstruction due to large benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH).
Surgical treatment of penile curvature: primum non nocere]	This study was designed to evaluate the medium-term results of surgical treatment of penile curvature by tunica albuginea plication of tunica albuginea resection-prosthetic graft.
Post-traumatic rupture of the urethra: a series of 105 cases]	To evaluate the management of patients with post-traumatic urethral stricture in our institution.
Surgical treatment of undescended testes.	The mainstay of therapy for undescended testes is operative treatment within the first years of life in order to avoid ongoing testicular degenerative changes. The surgical therapy for the palpable undescended testis is orchiopexy and when the testis is non-palpable, a supplementary laparoscopic approach. Success of orchiopexy for inguinal testes has been >95% and for abdominal testes >85-90% in most series.
The multistage use of buccal mucosa grafts for complex hypospadias: histological changes.	We report our experience using buccal mucosa in the multistage repair of complex hypospadias, and the observed histological changes.
Scrotal incision orchiopexy for undescended testes with or without a patent processus vaginalis.	Bianchi and Squire first described scrotal incision orchiopexy as an alternative to the traditional inguinal approach in the 1980s. The goal of this study was to review our series of scrotal orchiopexies to evaluate operative times, success rates and complications in patients with and without a patent processus vaginalis.
Comparison of testicular volume before and after laparoscopic varicocelectomy in children and adolescents]	Male infertility is the most frequent consequence of late diagnosis of varicocoele and not performing surgical varicocelectomy before puberty. The etiopathogenesis is still obscure. The anatomical conditions in men are conducive to the development of left varicocoele. The aim of this study is the assessment of the results of varicocelectomy on increase of testicular volume in adolescents with the grade II and III varicocoele and on improvement of potential fertility of young men.
Complex urethral disruptions: in pursuit of a successful reconstruction.	We analyzed the methods and outcomes of urethroplasty in men with complex urethral disruptions.
Technique of anterior urethra urethroplasty using tunica albuginea of corpora cavernosa.	Over previous years, urethral stricture has constantly created a great problem in efforts to find a permanent cure for it. We describe a technique of anterior urethroplasty using tunica albuginea of corpora cavernosa.
A case of primary leiomyoma of the ureter.	This report describes a case of primary leiomyoma of the ureter in which only partial ureterectomy was performed based on the diagnosis of benign tumor by rapid diagnosis using a frozen section during the operation. Surgical treatment was opted for upon diagnosis of a submucosal tumor of the right ureter, with no abnormal findings in the ureteral mucosa by ureteroscopy. To our knowledge, nine cases have been reported worldwide since 1955, suggesting this case to be the 10th.
Leiomyoma of the corpus cavernosum of the penis.	While soft tissue tumors can occur in the penis, corpus cavernous tumors are rare. Reported cases of corpus cavernous tumors are from metastases of advanced malignancy, such as cancers of the bladder, prostate, rectosigmoid colon, kidney, pancreas, liver, testis and nasopharynx. Primary corpus cavernous tumors are extremely rare and have possibly never been reported before. Herein, we report a case of leiomyoma of the corpus cavernosum. After the diagnosis of leiomyoma was established, total excision of the tumor was not attempted and the tumor remained unchanged in size and shape over a follow-up period of 15 months.
Varicocele in male factor infertility: role of laparoscopic varicocelectomy.	Among the causes of male infertility, the varicocele accounts for 40%. Videolaparoscopic varicocelectomy was used for the treatment of 800 men as day surgery cases. The operation enabled high bilateral ligation, with an average operating time of 1.5 hours. Operative difficulties were minor being colon adhesions, vascularity, and obesity. There were no complications. Testicular biopsies showed permanent damage varying between 1% and > or =70%. The surgery was very well accepted because of its convenience, smooth and rapid recovery, improved sexual performance, and cost savings. Among the men treated, semen parameters improved among 80%; 45% of their wives becoming pregnant. There is clearly a role for videolaparoscopic varicocelectomy in the treatment of male infertility.
Epithelializing stent for benign prostatic hyperplasia: a systematic review of the literature.	We systematically reviewed the literature on the effectiveness, durability and safety of the UroLume stent for men with benign prostatic hyperplasia.
The technique of vessel sparing excision and primary anastomosis for proximal bulbous urethral reconstruction.	We present a technique not previously described for proximal bulbous or bulbomembranous urethral reconstruction of excision and primary anastomosis. The technique has the potential advantages of preserving the proximal urethral blood supply.
Long-term followup for excision and primary anastomosis for anterior urethral strictures.	We report our experience and long-term followup of patients undergoing excision and primary anastomotic reconstruction for anterior urethral strictures.
A 19-year review of paediatric patients with acute scrotum.	The aim of the study was to compare incidence, symptoms and signs of spermatic cord torsion to those of other conditions causing acute scrotum.
Testicular compartment syndrome: a new approach to conceptualizing and managing testicular torsion.	Decompression of compartment syndrome is known to salvage tissues in numerous organ systems. To demonstrate evidence that testes exposed to prolonged ischemia exhibit compartment syndrome physiology and propose a novel technique in treating this phenomenon.
Y-V preputioplasty for adult phimosis: a review of 89 cases.	Numerous surgical techniques have been proposed for preputial relief to avoid circumcision. We aimed to review the indications, techniques, and outcomes of Y-V preputioplasty for men with phimosis treated at our institution between 1995 and the present.
Transcorporal artificial urinary sphincter placement for incontinence in high-risk patients after treatment of prostate cancer.	To investigate the transcorporal (TC) vs standard (ST) approach of artificial urinary sphincter (AUS) placement for incontinence after treatment of prostate adenocarcinoma (PCa) with radiotherapy or surgery, or both.
New metod for recovering of defects on Glans penis after partial or total glansectomy with transplantation of the oral mucosa]	The aim of the present research is to present a new surgical method of treatment of tissue defects of Glans penis through cover of the wound surface with free transplantation of patient's oral muccosa patch graft. The Glans penis defects treated have formed from excision of primary tumor lesions through partial and total glansectomy.
The value of squamous cell carcinoma antigen in the prognostic evaluation, treatment monitoring and followup of patients with penile cancer.	We examined whether squamous cell carcinoma antigen has significant value for prognostic evaluation, treatment monitoring and followup in patients with penile cancer.
Microsurgical varicocelectomy for isolated asthenospermia.	Varicocele represents the most common cause of male infertility, and most reports indicate that varicocelectomy has a beneficial effect on male fertility and pregnancy outcome. We evaluated the clinical outcomes of infertile couples with varicocele and isolated asthenospermia who chose to undergo varicocelectomy as well as those who chose not to undergo the procedure.
Recurrences, testicular growth and semen parameters after laparoscopic Palomo varicocelectomy]	The aim of this study was to evaluate the influence of laparoscopic Palomo varicocelectomy on testicular volume and sperm parameters. Laparoscopic Palomo varicocelectomy was performed on 91 patients for left-sided grade II and grade III varicoceles. Ultrasound-derived testicular volumes, semen volume, sperm concentration, percentage sperm motility and total motile sperm count were compared before and after the procedure. Postoperative complications and recurrence rate were also assessed. There were no surgical complications. Four patients (5%) had a mild hydrocele, but did not need hydrocelectomy. No patients presented signs of testicular atrophy and the left testicular volume increased in the adolescents (p < 0.05), but not in the adults. Our data suggest that laparoscopic high mass ligation of both the testicular artery and vein is a highly effective, reliable method for the treatment of varicocele. It is associated with very low complication and recurrence rates and with an objective improvement in fertility parameters.
Laser therapy of carcinoma of the penis]	To analyze the efficacy and morbidity of laser treatment in 5 men with carcinoma of the penis
Urethroplasty with combined free tissue grafts]	The treatment of the congenital and acquired diseases of the male urethra is a serious health and social problem. The lack of sufficient graft material from the genital area leads to the usage of free tissue grafts from other body parts. The combined usage of different tissue grafts is rare, but with a steady trend for expanding, particularly in patients with complications and deformations after surgery for hypospadia
Splenogonadal fusion.	We report a case of an 11-year-old boy who presented with a painless left scrotal mass of one year's duration. Clinical examination and diagnostic modalities indicated a solid left testicular mass. Exploration was done and a complete splenogonadal fusion was found. The ectopic splenic tissue was completely removed with preservation of the testis. Splenogonadal fusion is a rare and infrequently reported entity in the paediatric surgical literature. This was our first encounter with this condition. A review of the literature is briefly presented here.
Partial glansectomy by organsparing therapy of penile cancer]	The aim of the present research is to study the patients, having penile cancer diagnosis, treated at the Clinic of Urology, Medical University, Sofia, during the last 8 years. The study is focused on patients, undergoing T1 phase, treated through organsapring intervention partial glansectomia.
The importance of patient selection in the treatment of distal hypospadias using modified Koff procedure.	We present our experience in the treatment of distal hypospadias using a modified Koff procedure, emphasizing the importance of patient selection for a good outcome.
Urethrocutaneous fistula after hypospadias repair: outcome of three types of closure techniques.	To evaluate the outcomes of three surgical techniques for the closure of urethrocutaneous fistula (UCF) after hypospadias repair.
Iatrogenic trapped penis in adults: new, simple 2-stage repair.	We present a new, 2-stage functional and cosmetic reconstruction of concealed penis in adults with short-term subjective outcomes.
Penile dermal flap in patients with Peyronie's disease: long-term results.	In 1995 a penile dermal flap was described as an ideal operation for penile curvature due to Peyronie's disease. We report our experience with penile dermal flaps in patients with penile curvature due to Peyronie's disease.
Penile enlargement: from medication to surgery.	Penis lengthening pills, stretch apparatus, vacuum pumps, silicone injections, and lengthening and thickening operations are available for men who worry about their penis size. Surgery is thus far the only proven scientific method for penile enlargement. In this article, we consider patient selection, outcome evaluation, and techniques applied. In our view, sexological counseling and detailed explanation of risks and complications are mandatory before any operative intervention.
Treatment of neurogenic male urinary incontinence related to intrinsic sphincter insufficiency with an artificial urinary sphincter: a French retrospective multicentre study.	To assess results and morbidity of the periprostatic insertion of an artificial urinary sphincter (AUS) in adult male patients with a neurogenic bladder.
Tunica-sparing ossified Peyronie's plaque excision.	Ossified Peyronie's plaques may require surgical excision because of the palpable problems and penile curvature that result. As tunical excision can result in impotence and decrease penile sensation, we describe a novel method of tunical preserving excision of such lesions.
Adult isolated congenital anterior urethrocutaneous fistula.	Isolated congenital anterior urethrocutaneous fistula (CAUF) is an extremely rare deformity and few cases have been reported in the English language literature. Moreover, adult CAUF has not been reported up to now. We present a rare adult patient with this unusual isolated CAUF deformity. The possible etiology and treatment strategy are discussed.
The testicular regression syndrome--do remnants require routine excision?	Excision of testicular remnants is debatable in the scenario where hypoplastic vas and vessels can be seen entering a closed internal ring during laparoscopy for impalpable testes. We aimed to establish how frequently excised remnants have identifiable testicular tissue and, hence, malignant potential.
Effects of varicocelectomy on sperm DNA fragmentation, mitochondrial function, chromatin condensation, and apoptosis.	The aim of this study was to evaluate conventional semen parameters  (density, morphology, and progressive motility) and the flow-cytometric  parameters of DNA fragmentation, mitochondrial membrane potential,  phosphatidylserine externalization, and chromatin compactness in patients with  varicocele before and after varicocelectomy. Thirty men (26.5 ± 3.2  years old, range 20-32 years) with oligoasthenoteratozoospermia and  grade 3 left varicocele were selected (without other causes of male  infertility). Each of them underwent sperm analysis and flow cytometric  evaluation before and 4 months after subinguinal microsurgical varicocelectomy  (SMV). After varicocelectomy, men had significantly higher sperm density,  progressive motility, and normal forms compared with baseline. They also had a  significantly lower percentage of spermatozoa with low mitochondrial membrane  potential. After SMV, they showed a significantly lower percentage of  spermatozoa with phosphatidylserine externalization, an early sign of  apoptosis. Significantly decreased percentages of spermatozoa with abnormal  chromatin compactness and spermatozoa with DNA fragmentation were found after  SMV compared with baseline. Subinguinal microsurgical varicocelectomy improves  sperm function in oligoasthenoteratozoospermia secondary to grade 3 left  varicocele. Improvements are seen in conventional parameters and biofunctional  parameters not routinely evaluated.
A case study of a new technique for the primary percutaneous endoscopic realignment of a complete urethral injury.	The male urethra is vulnerable to injury with multisystem trauma, especially those that include pelvic fractures. Controversy exists regarding the optimal time to repair urethral injuries and different modalities exist for the treatment. We report the first documented case of percutaneous endoscopic realignment of a urethra using a previous cystostomy site that has been dilated using a balloon dilator.
Microsurgical subinguinal varicocelectomy in children, adolescents, and adults: surgical anatomy and anatomically justified technique.	Microsurgical varicocelectomy has become the gold standard in adults  because of low recurrence and postoperative hydrocele rates; it is  increasingly applied in children and adolescents. This review aims to provide  the surgeon with the necessary surgical anatomy of the spermatic cord and with  a step-by-step, anatomically justified description of technique, toward  clearer comprehension and improved application. The anatomic compartments of  the spermatic cord are delineated by the external and internal spermatic  fasciae. Venous drainage of testis-epididymis is accomplished by the internal  spermatic, deferential, and external spermatic (cremasteric) veins. All 3  anastomose at the caudal pole of testis, and then via gubernacular veins with  the posterior scrotal veins. Another anastomosis exists between a cremasteric  branch and anterior scrotal veins, which gives the external pudendal vein.  Subinguinal approach offers access to varicose spermatic veins and  collaterals. Use of surgical microscope offers identification of small veins,  preservation of arteries, lymphatics, and nerves, and appreciation of  spermatic cord fasciae, which permits the development of two surgical planes.  In the surgical plane of internal spermatic vessels, internal spermatic veins  are ligated, whereas the testicular artery and innervation, as well as  lymphatics, are preserved. In the plane of cremasteric vessels and vas,  cremasteric veins are ligated, whereas the cremasteric artery, vas deferens  and its vasculature, lymphatics, and the genital branch of genitofemoral nerve  are preserved. Delivery of the testis to ligate gubernacular veins is at the  discretion of the surgeon. Finally, venous return is effected by deferential  and scrotal veins, or, when gubernacular veins are ligated, by deferential  veins only.
Glans-preserving surgery for superficial penile cancer.	In this study, we investigated the safety and feasibility of  glans-preserving surgery for superficial penile squamous cell carcinoma. Young  patients with penile primary tumors exhibiting favorable histologic features  were best suited for organ-sparing procedures, enabling them to avoid sexual  disturbances. The study included 12 patients, 38-53 years of age (median  age 46 years), with superficial lesions involving the glans penis, coronary  sulcus, or shaft skin. After clinical staging and grading, those patients were  offered a glans-preserving procedure to preserve the normal appearance and  functional integrity of the glans penis. Of the 12 patients referred, the  tumors were TaG1 in 4 patients, TaG2 in 3, TisG1 in 1, TisG2 in 1, T1G1 in 2,  and T1G2 in 1. All patients returned to normal sexual activity 1 month  postoperatively. Sexual function and sexual satisfaction were well maintained  after surgery. The cosmetic results were considered satisfying/very satisfying  by 83% (10 of 12 patients). Follow-up data were available on 12 patients at a  mean follow-up of 62.5 months. Only 1 patient had recurrence 6 months after  surgery, which was managed by a second glans-preserving surgery without  recurrence. With careful patient selection and vigilant follow-up,  anatomically suitable superficial penile cancer can be offered this  glans-preserving surgery, while preserving function of the penis wherever  possible.
Innovations in defered emergency surgery for complete rupture of the membranous uretra]	Posterior urethral injuries may be associated with pelvic fractures, which are serious accidents that can be life-threatening, and invariably affect urinary and sexual function. Current strategy for treating complete rupture of the membranous urethra involves minimal cystotomy with emergency surgery within the first 10 days, this is later followed by what is considered to be the ideal solution, end-to-end urethral anastomosis using the transpubic approach. However, this anatomic reconstruction is hindered by the greatdifficulty of locating the distal portion of the uretra below the superior layer of the medial perineal aponeurosis. As we described, this problem is resolved using a maneuver involving elevation of the urogenital diaphragm, which allows for the indentification and exposure of the distal urethra, facilitating tension-free termino-terminal anastomosis, sparing the external sphincter.
Penile resurfacing for denuded penis following circumcision.	Major loss of penile shaft skin following circumcision has been rarely reported in the paediatric literature and when it occurs is usually due to the injudicious use of monopolar diathermy, infection and poor surgical technique. We report the reconstruction of a penis following complete loss of penile skin due to circumcision. We employed a split-skin graft for the glans and full-thickness graft for the shaft to achieve a more natural cosmetic appearance. This approach has not been described previously in the paediatric literature and should be considered in the unfortunate event of significant penile skin loss.
Prognostic factors in upper urinary tract urothelial carcinomas: a comprehensive review of the current literature.	The heterogeneity of upper tract urothelial carcinoma (UTUC) biology and prognosis, as well as the presence of different treatment options, makes the clinical decision-making process extremely challenging.
Transurethral resection of ejaculatory duct in infertile men: outcome and predictors of success.	To evaluate the outcome of transurethral resection of the ejaculatory duct (TURED) in the treatment for ejaculatory duct obstruction (EDO) and define predictors of success.
Penile vascular indices in surgically treated and conservatively treated penile fracture: does conventional immediate repair matter?	To investigate the impact of immediate surgical repair and conservative treatment of penile fracture (PF) on penile vascular indices.
A case of 46, XY DSD presenting as a crossed ectopic gonad with a contralateral sliding inguinal hernia.	A three-month-old boy was referred to our facility for the treatment of a right impalpable testis, left inguinal hernia, and penoscrotal hypospadias with asymmetric external genitalia. The left gonad was palpated in the left scrotum. The chromosomal study revealed a normal male 46, XY karyotype. Operative findings showed that the right streak gonad, uterus, and fallopian tubes were in the wall of the left hernia sac, forming a sliding hernia. Laparoscopy confirmed that the right gonadal vessels had crossed to the left internal inguinal ring. Herniorrhaphy was done and the right streak gonad, uterus, and fallopian tubes were excised. An exploration of the left gonad revealed an ovotestis. The ovary was removed, and a left testicular biopsy was simultaneously performed. A one-stage hypospadias repair using Koyanagi procedure was also performed. The pathological findings showed an ovarian stroma in the right gonad and left ovary. Only Sertoli cells were detected in the biopsied specimen from the left testis.
Idiopathic varicocele in adolescents: risks of the inguinal approach.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the medium-term results and complications of open inguinal varicocelectomy, including vein ligation, intraoperative venography, and antegrade sclerotherapy.
Tips for successful open surgical reconstruction of posterior urethral disruption injuries.	This article provides an overview of the open surgical management of posterior urethral disruption injuries. The discussion includes the evaluation of the patient before surgery with a focus on urethral imaging and details of posterior urethroplasty surgical technique. 
Pedicled rectus abdominis muscle and fascia flap sling the bulbar urethra for treatment for male-acquired urinary incontinence: report of ten cases.	Male urinary incontinence is relatively common complication of radical prostatectomy and of posterior urethroplasty following traumatic pelvic fracture. Here, we investigate the use of pedicled rectus abdominis muscle and fascia flap sling of the bulbar urethra for treatment for male-acquired urinary incontinence.
Comparative outcomes of the tubularized incised plate and transverse island flap onlay techniques for the repair of proximal hypospadias.	The optimal management of proximal hypospadias remains uncertain. In this study, the surgical outcomes of tubularized incised plate repair (TIP) and transverse island flap (TVIF) onlay urethroplasty in boys with hypospadias were compared.
Ultrasound-guided pudendal nerve block in cats undergoing perineal urethrostomy: a prospective, randomised, investigator-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the clinical usefulness, in terms of analgesic efficacy and safety, of ultrasound-guided pudendal nerve block performed with bupivacaine in cats undergoing perineal urethrostomy. Eighteen client-owned male cats scheduled for perineal urethrostomy were enrolled in the study and assigned to one of two treatment groups. The pudendal nerve block was performed under general anaesthesia, as described elsewhere, with 0.3 ml/kg of either saline (group C) or 0.5% bupivacaine (group B) - the total injection volume being split equally between the two sites of injection (left and right). Intra-operatively, assessment of nociception was based on the rescue analgesics requirement, as well as on the evaluation of changes in physiological parameters in comparison with the baseline values. Postoperative pain assessment was performed using three different pain scales at recovery and then 1, 2 and 3 h after recovery. Cats in group B showed lower heart rates and required fewer analgesics during surgery than group C. Postoperatively, group B had lower pain scores and needed less rescue buprenorphine than group C. Iatrogenic block-related complications were not observed. In conclusion, the ultrasound-guided pudendal nerve block can be considered clinically useful in feline medicine as it provides reliable analgesia in cats undergoing perineal urethrostomy. 
Surgical management of prostate cancer.	Surgery remains a mainstay in the management of localized prostate cancer. This article addresses surgical aspects germane to the management of men with prostate cancer, including patient selection for surgery, nerve-sparing approaches, minimization of positive surgical margins, and indications for pelvic lymph node dissection. Outcomes for men with high-risk prostate cancer following surgery are reviewed, and the present role of neoadjuvant therapy before radical prostatectomy is discussed. In addition, there is a review of the published literature on surgical ablative therapies for prostate cancer. 
DOuble LOngitudinal Megapreputium Incision TEchnique: the DOLOMITE.	To present a straightforward, reproducible technique with the basic principle of preserving all available outer penile shaft skin and using this to cover the dorsal side of the penis. The DOuble LOngitudinal Megapreputium Incision TEchnique is presented in a step-by-step fashion.
Long-term follow-up after transurethral treatment of infravesical obstruction in boys.	To study whether boys who underwent transurethral treatment of (mild) infravesical obstruction during childhood have lower urinary tract symptoms and complications at young adult age.
Clinical outcome of microsurgical varicocelectomy in infertile men with severe oligozoospermia.	To evaluate the outcome of microsurgical varicocelectomy in infertile men with severe oligozoospermia and to identify the predictive parameters associated with the efficacy of microsurgical varicocelectomy in this cohort of patients.
One-stage repair of hypospadias--experience with 856 cases.	856 cases of hypospadias, operated over a period of 7 years, using various methods of one-stage repair, are reviewed in order to assess their functional and cosmetic results and their rate of complications.
Surgical repair of anterior hypospadias with fish-mouth meatus and intact prepuce based on anatomical characteristics.	A variant form of anterior hypospadias, called a megameatus and intact prepuce (MIP), is thought to be less amenable to conventional distal hypospadias repair. The feasibility of using the standard technique with a parameatal-based foreskin flap is described herein.
The surgical treatment of distal hypospadias]	Distal hypospadias is one of the most common conditions encountered by the pediatric urologist. For many years it was considered to be a non-surgical pathology, since attempts to correct this condition was cosmetically unsatisfactory and more problems were caused rather than resolved. Over the last 15 years, early in the 80's, John Duckett rekindled the interest in this pathology whose treatment had advanced very little since the era of Mathieu. This article is a posthumous tribute to my mentor, John W. Duckett, who contributed considerably to the advancement of surgical treatment of hypospadias.
Proximal hypospadias]	To evaluate the outcome of surgery in posterior hypospadias.
The treatment of hypospadias complexes]	To explain the preoperative assessment of the hypospadias cripple and define the fundamental principles of correction of the failed hypospadias repair.
