Increased c-fos expression in spinal lumbosacral projection neurons and preganglionic neurons after irritation of the lower urinary tract in the rat.	Chemical irritation of the lower urinary tract (LUT) induces c-fos expression in neurons in the lumbosacral (L(6) and S(1)) spinal cord. This study used axonal tracing with fluorescent dyes to identify the types of spinal neurons expressing Fos immunoreactivity (IR) after LUT irritation in the rat. Fos-IR was detected in lateral and medial superficial dorsal horn, the sacral parasympathetic nucleus (SPN) and lamina X around the central canal. Fos-IR was detected in spinal neurons projecting to supraspinal sites (brainstem and hypothalamus), in preganglionic neurons (PGN) and in unlabeled segmental interneurons. A substantial percentage (20%) of dye labeled PGN exhibited Fos-IR after LUT irritation; and a larger percentage (36%) exhibited Fos-IR after electrical stimulation of the pelvic nerve which contains afferent pathways from all of the pelvic organs. The majority (average 55%) of Fos-positive neurons projecting to supraspinal sites were also located in the region of the SPN. A selective distribution of different types of neurons was detected in this region: PGN were located ventral to the spinal projection neurons which in turn were located ventral to the majority of unidentified Fos-positive neurons. The distribution of Fos-positive PGN and projection neurons was similar in spinal intact and spinal transected animals indicating that c-fos expression was mediated by monosynaptic afferent input or input from segmental interneurons and was not due to activation of supraspinal micturition reflex pathways.
Changes in cat urinary glycosaminoglycans with age and in feline urologic syndrome.	The aim of the present study was to characterize the urinary excretion of glycosaminoglycans in kittens and adult healthy cats, as well as in cats with a low urinary tract disease, the feline urologic syndrome (FUS). The main urinary glycosaminoglycan in cats was found to be chondroitin sulfate, with smaller amounts of dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate. There was no difference in the urinary glycosaminoglycan concentration with sex, but a marked decrease occurred with age, due to chondroitin sulfate. Trace amounts of keratan sulfate were also detected in the urine of kittens, but not of healthy adult cats. Dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate were the only glycosaminoglycans found in the urinary tract and kidney, and chondroitin sulfate was the only glycosaminoglycan found in the plasma. These data suggest that the main urinary glycosaminoglycan chondroitin sulfate is of systemic origin and filtered in the kidney, while the minor components dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfate may come from the urinary tract. The urinary glycosaminoglycan concentration was greatly decreased in animals with FUS, as compared to normal adults. We hypothesize that these low glycosaminoglycan levels reflect a damage to the bladder surface, resulting in absorption and/or degradation of the endogenous urinary glycosaminoglycans.
Neuropeptides in lower urinary tract function.	Numerous neuropeptide/receptor systems including vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, neurokinin A, bradykinin, and endothelin-1 are expressed in the lower urinary tract (LUT) in both neural and nonneural (e.g., urothelium) components. LUT neuropeptide immunoreactivity is present in afferent and autonomic efferent neurons innervating the bladder and urethra and in the urothelium of the urinary bladder. Neuropeptides have tissue-specific distributions and functions in the LUT and exhibit neuroplastic changes in expression and function with LUT dysfunction following neural injury, inflammation, and disease. LUT dysfunction with abnormal voiding, including urinary urgency, increased voiding frequency, nocturia, urinary incontinence, and pain, may reflect a change in the balance of neuropeptides in bladder reflex pathways. LUT neuropeptide/receptor systems may represent potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
Gas composition and acid-base equilibrium of blood of patients operated on under conditions of epidural anesthesia]	The results of the studies on the gas composition and acid-base equilibrium of the blood in patients operated upon under epidural anesthesia have proved the rise of venous hyperoxia and the drop of the gas utilization percentage both in anesthetized and non-anesthetized regions. At the level of the whole organism, however, no essential changes of oxygen metabolism are noted.
