The effect of TPP, theophylline and theobromine on the angiogenic activity of mononuclear leucocytes obtained from diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy.	Tołpa Peat Preparation (TPP) administered in various doses does not influence the ability of mononuclear cells (MNC) obtained from diabetic patients with proliferative retinopathy to induce neovascularization response in H-LIA test. Methylxanthines (theophylline, theobromine) significantly decrease the angiogenic activity of these cells. The therapeutic value of these drugs in proliferative retinopathy should be evaluated.
The influence of Tołpa Peat Preparation (TPP) on rat liver regeneration.	The effect of Tolpa peat preparation (TPP) on the regenerative response has been examined in rats submitted to two thirds hepatectomy. The ornithine decarboxylase activity, spermidine and histamine levels, DNA and RNA content, RNA/DNA ratio and the mass of restituted liver were used to test the intensity of the regenerative processes. The action of TPP is dual: a short-term application of TPP at a dose of 20 mg/kg/day causes an inhibition of the ornithine decarboxylase activity, the decrease in spermidine formation, the levels of DNA and RNA, and liver restitution. The multiple application of TPP, on the other hand, results in a stimulation of ornithine decarboxylase, the increase in spermidine and histamine as well as RNA and DNA levels in regenerating liver; concomitantly, the liver mass tends to increase in TPP treated groups. TPP might exert its effects, at least partially, by interfering with polyamine biosynthesis.
Influence of Tołpa Peat Preparation on the IgE-induced anaphylactic reactions in mice.	The ability of Tołpa Peat Preparation (TPP) to affect anaphylactic sensitization and mast cell secretory function was tested in BALB/c mice treated with TPP orally for 12 days. TPP in the doses of 20 and 50 mg/kg/day reduced histamine release from mouse peritoneal mast cells challenged with anti-IgE or concanavalin A in vitro. The treatment of mice with TPP from day 1 to day 12 of immunization with Ovalbumin (OA) absorbed on aluminium hydroxide gel resulted in a decrease of antigen-induced histamine release from mast cells of these mice in vitro and in decreased IgE antibody level in their sera. TPP introduced into OA-immunized mice showing developed IgE antibody response was less effective in decreasing anaphylactic histamine release from mast cells of these mice. In all experiments low doses of TPP used for oral treatment were more effective than high doses in inhibiting anaphylactic events in the mice.
Influence of Tołpa Peat Preparation on the phagocytic activity and bactericidal properties of granulocytes in healthy volunteers.	It was found, that Tołpa Peat Preparation (TPP) administered to healthy volunteers in doses of 100-300 mg/day during 14 days evoked the stimulation of the phagocytic and bactericidal activity of the granulocytes. The dose of 600 mg/day causes only a transient and insignificant increase of phagocytic and bactericidal properties of the granulocytes.
Effect of Tołpa Peat Preparation on some immune parameters in healthy volunteers. Preliminary data.	Investigations of some immune parameters were carried out in healthy humans receiving TPP in doses of 50, 100, 300 and 600 mg daily for 14 days. The percent and composition of T lymphocyte subsets were studied along with the ability to generate interleukin-1 (Il-1) and interleukin-2 (Il-2) as well as spontaneous and PHA stimulated expression of receptors for Il-2 (TAC) and transferrin receptor (Tr) on lymphocytes. Lymphocytes proliferation induced with mitogens and alloantigens, generation of both Tumour Necrosis Factor alpha(TNF alpha) by monocytes and superoxide radicals by granulocytes were estimated. A 50 mg dose of TPP changed neither the T-cell percent among mononuclear cells nor the composition of T-cell subsets. A higher dosage of 100 mg of TPP caused a significant increase of the percent of T-cells on the 14th day but did not influence their subset composition. On the 14th and 28th day of the observation a statistically insignificant decrease of IL-2 generation was observed but with no change of both TAC receptor expression on lymphocytes and the ability to generate IL-1 by monocytes. TPP in the doses of 50 and 100 mg exerted a slight immunomodulatory potential in healthy humans, however the immunological parameters assessed were within the standard values. In other immune parameters examined during the administration of higher TPP doses in human groups consisted of four volunteers considerable differences have been found but individual differences in a limited experimental group and the lack of a placebo group did not allow for definite conclusions but for preliminary data only.
The dose-dependent effect of Tołpa Peat Preparation on the humoral response of mice immunized with sheep erythrocytes.	The Balb/c strain mice were immunized by single intraperitoneal administration of 0.2 cm3 of 10% sheep erythrocyte suspension (SRBC). Tołpa Peat Preparation (TPP) used in the study was a peat-derived substance obtained in prof. St. Tołpa's laboratory. It was given to mice intraperitoneally, 4 times at 24-hour intervals. The first dose was administered 2 hours before immunization. Testing was performed with the following doses: 0.5, 2.5, 5, 10, 25, 50, 100 and 250 mg/kg. The determinations comprised the number of spleen cells producing anti-SRBC haemolysins, the level of serum haemagglutinins to SRBC (19S+7S and 7S types) and the percentage of splenocytes forming spontaneous E-rosettes. It was found that the effect of TPP on these immunologic parameters of the mice immunized with SRBC was dose-dependent. The effect potentiating the humoral response occurred for the doses of 0.5-10 mg/kg. The doses of 25 and 50 mg/kg did not affect the immunologic response to SRBC, while the doses of 100 and 250 mg/kg had a suppressive effect. The impact of TPP on the percentage of splenocytes forming E-rosettes was also dose-dependent, but in this case stimulating activity was observed for the doses of 2.5-25 mg/kg.
Restoration of cyclophosphamide-suppressed primary immune response in mice by Tołpa Peat Preparation (TPP)--comparison with calf thymus extract.	In order to induce pharmacological immunosuppression in Balb/c mice, the animals were given cyclophosphamide intraperitoneally, 200 mg/kg 144 hours or 24 hours prior to SRBC immunization. Tołpa Peat Preparation (TPP) was administered in doses of 10 and 50 mg/kg on the day of immunization and then every 24 hours for 3 consecutive days. It was given both to mice cyclophosphamide-treated and non-treated. Calf thymus extract (TFX) was administered (1 and 5 mg/kg) parallelly, for comparison with TPP. The following immunologic indices were determined: percent of splenocytes forming E- and EAC-rosettes, number of plaque-forming cells (PFC) and the levels of 19S+7S and 7S anti-SRBC haemagglutinins. The immunosuppressing action of a single cyclophosphamide dose decreased the percentage of EAC rosettes, number of PFC and serum anti-SRBC haemagglutinin titre. TPP is able to restore the percent of EAC rosettes, the number of PFC and anti-SRBC haemagglutinin titre, either partially or totally, after cyclophosphamide-induced immunosuppression. The effectiveness of TPP depends mainly on the dose and timing of cyclophosphamide administration prior to SRBC immunization. The most pronounced restoration of the cells in mice was observed with the TPP dose of 50 mg/kg after cyclophosphamide suppression 144 h before immunization. TFX (1 mg/kg) only partially restored the number of PFC and 7S anti-SRBC haemagglutinin titre, which had been depressed due to cyclophosphamide treatment 144 h prior to immunization. However, it did not change the depressing effect of cyclophosphamide on the percent of EAC rosette-forming splenocytes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Influence of Tołpa Peat Preparation on haemostasis in rats.	The influence of Tołpa Peat Preparation (TPP) on certain parameters of haemostasis was studied. The present results indicate that TPP (100, 200 and 300 mg/kg p.o.) had no influence on the bleeding time, clotting time, thrombin time, prothrombin time, kaolin-kephalin time, euglobulin lysis time, the concentration of fibrinogen, the platelet count and ADP-induced platelet aggregation. No changes in animals after long-term treatment with TPP (100 mg/kg for two weeks) were found either. In in vitro studies TPP given in concentrations 10(-5), 10(-4), 10(-3) and 10(-2) g/cm3 was used and certain changes of the studied parameters, probably caused by the presence of high salt content in this substance, were observed.
