Alginate is not a significant component of the extracellular polysaccharide matrix of PA14 and PAO1 Pseudomonas aeruginosa biofilms.	The bacterium Pseudomonas aeruginosa causes chronic respiratory infections in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients. Such infections are extremely difficult to control because the bacteria exhibit a biofilm-mode of growth, rendering P. aeruginosa resistant to antibiotics and phagocytic cells. During the course of infection, P. aeruginosa usually undergoes a phenotypic switch to a mucoid colony, which is characterized by the overproduction of the exopolysaccharide alginate. Alginate overproduction has been implicated in protecting P. aeruginosa from the harsh environment present in the CF lung, as well as facilitating its persistence as a biofilm by providing an extracellular matrix that promotes adherence. Because of its association with biofilms in CF patients, it has been assumed that alginate is also the primary exopolysaccharide expressed in biofilms of environmental nonmucoid P. aeruginosa. In this study, we examined the chemical nature of the biofilm matrix produced by wild-type and isogenic alginate biosynthetic mutants of P. aeruginosa. The results clearly indicate that alginate biosynthetic genes are not expressed and that alginate is not required during the formation of nonmucoid biofilms in two P. aeruginosa strains, PAO1 and PA14, that have traditionally been used to study biofilms. Because nonmucoid P. aeruginosa strains are the predominant environmental phenotype and are also involved in the initial colonization in CF patients, these studies have implications in understanding the early events of the infectious process in the CF airway.
Lipid peroxidation and extracellular matrix in normal and cirrhotic rat livers following 70% hepatectomy.	The aim was to measure the deposition of collagens and proteoglycans and the underlying mechanism leading to lipid peroxidation due to oxidative stress in partially hepatectomized normal and cirrhotic rats.
Chondroitin 4-sulphotransferase-1 and chondroitin 6-sulphotransferase-1 are affected differently by uronic acid residues neighbouring the acceptor GalNAc residues.	C4ST-1 (chondroitin 4-sulphotransferase-1) and C6ST-1 (chondroitin 6-sulphotransferase-1) transfer sulphate from PAPS (adenosine 3'-phosphate 5'-phosphosulphate) to positions 4 and 6 respectively of the GalNAc residues of chondroitin. We showed previously that C4ST-1 purified from rat chondrosarcoma and recombinant C4ST-1 both transfer sulphate efficiently to position 4 of the GalNAc residues of DSDS (desulphated dermatan sulphate). We report here the specificity of C4ST-1 and C6ST-1 in terms of uronic acid residue recognition around the GalNAc residue to which sulphate is transferred. When [35S]glycosaminoglycans formed from DSDS after incubation with [35S]PAPS and C4ST-1 were digested with chondroitinase ACII, a major part of the radioactivity was recovered in disaccharide fractions and the remainder distributed to tetrasaccharides and larger fractions, indicating that C4ST-1 mainly transferred sulphate to position 4 of the GalNAc residue located at the GlcA-GalNAc-GlcA sequence. Structural analysis of tetrasaccharide and larger oligosaccharide fractions indicated that C4ST-1 mainly transferred sulphate to the GalNAc residue adjacent to the reducing side of the GlcA residue. On the other hand, when [35S]glycosaminoglycans formed from DSDS after incubation with [35S]PAPS and C6ST-1 were digested with chondroitinase ACII, a major part of the radioactivity was recovered in fractions larger than hexasaccharides, indicating that C6ST-1 transferred sulphate to the GalNAc residues located in the L-iduronic acid-rich region. Structural analysis of the tetrasaccharide and larger oligosaccharide fractions indicated that C6ST-1 showed very little preference for the GalNAc residue neighbouring the GlcA residue. These results indicate that C4ST-1 and C6ST-1 differ from each other in the recognition of uronic acid residues adjacent to the targeted GalNAc residue.
Efficacy of Butea monosperma on dermal wound healing in rats.	Wound healing occurs as a fundamental response to tissue injury. Several natural products have been shown to accelerate the healing process. The present investigation was undertaken to determine the efficacy of topical administration of an alcoholic bark extract of Butea monosperma (B. monosperma) on cutaneous wound healing in rats. Full-thickness excision wounds were made on the back of rat and B. monosperma extract was administered topically. The granulation tissue formed on days 4, 8, 12 and 16 (post-wound) was used to estimate total collagen, hexosamine, protein, DNA and uronic acid. The extract increased cellular proliferation and collagen synthesis at the wound site, as evidenced by increase in DNA, total protein and total collagen content of granulation tissues. The extract treated wounds were found to heal much faster as indicated by improved rates of epithelialization and wound contraction, also confirmed by histopathological examinations. Also, the tensile strength of drug-treated wounds was increased significantly. In addition, we show that B. monosperma possesses antioxidant properties, by its ability to reduce lipid peroxidation. The results clearly substantiate the beneficial effects of the topical application of B. monosperma in the acceleration of wound healing.
Methyl esterification divergently affects the degradability of pectic uronosyls in nonlignified and lignified maize cell walls.	Nonlignified cell walls from Zea mays (L.) cell suspensions were incubated with and without pectin methylesterase (PME) and a portion were artificially lignified to assess how methyl esters influence the release of pectic uronosyls and total sugars from cell walls by fungal enzymes. Treatment with PME reduced uronosyl concentrations from 97 to 92 mg/g, reduced uronosyl methylation from 57% to 21%, and increased Klason lignin concentrations in artificially lignified cell walls from 99 to 116 mg/g. Although PME treatment slightly enhanced uronosyl release from nonlignified cell walls, it reduced uronosyl release from artificially lignified cell walls by 55% after 4 h and by 7% after 72 h of enzymatic hydrolysis. Pectin hydrolysis in PME treated cell walls was probably impaired by enhanced benzyl ester cross-linking of uronosyls to lignin via quinone methide intermediates. Variations in uronosyl methylation had little effect on the overall release of total sugars from cell walls.
A preliminary study on antimetastatic activity of Thuja occidentalis L. in mice model.	The effect of Thuja occidentalis extract on the inhibition of lung metastasis induced by B16F-10 melanoma cells was studied in C57BL/6 mice. The extract was administered by three different modalities. A remarkable reduction in tumor-nodule formation was shown by simultaneous (74.4%) and prophylactic (71.5%) mode of administration. The effect was comparatively low in drug administration after tumor development (60.2%). Increased lung collagen hydroxyproline (21.13 microg/mg protein) in the metastasized lungs of control animals compared with normal animals (0.98 microg/mg protein) was significantly reduced in Thuja-treated animals. The elevated level of uronic acid (349.5 microg/100 mg tissue) and hexosamine contents in metastatic control animals was significantly reduced in the animals treated with alcoholic extract of Thuja. Similarly the elevated levels of serum sialic acid and serum gamma glutamyl transpeptidase activity in the untreated control animals was significantly reduced in the animals treated with the extract of Thuja. The lifespan of the Thuja treated animals also was seen to be significantly increased.
Nascent pectin formed in Golgi apparatus of pea epicotyls by addition of uronic acids has different properties from nascent pectin at the stage of galactan elongation.	Microsomal membranes were prepared from etiolated pea (Pisum sativum L.) epicotyls and used to form nascent [Uronic acid-14C]pectin. The enzyme products were characterized by selective enzymic degradation, gel permeation chromatography and analysis of cellulose binding properties. The product obtained had a molecular weight of around 40 kDa, which was significantly lower than that of nascent [Gal-14C]pectin prepared from the same tissues. It is composed mainly of polygalacturonan and perhaps also rhamnogalacturonan (RG-I). Evidence was obtained for the presence of a protein attached to the nascent [Uronic acid-14C]pectin, but it was unaffected by endoglucanase and did not bind to cellulose. Hence, no xyloglucan appeared to be attached to the nascent [Uronic acid-14C]pectin. A model is proposed in which xyloglucan is attached to nascent pectin after formation of homogalacturonan, but before the pectin leaves the Golgi apparatus.
Bioreactor improves the growth and viability of chondrocytes in the knitted poly-L,D-lactide scaffold.	In the present study bovine chondrocytes were cultured in two different environments (static flasks and bioreactor) in knitted poly-L,D-lactide (PLDLA) scaffolds up to 4 weeks. Chondrocyte viability was assessed by employing cell viability fluorescence markers. The cells were visualized using confocal laser scanning microscopy and scanning electron microscopy. The mechanical properties and uronic acid contents of the scaffolds were tested. Our results showed that cultivation in a bioreactor improved the growth and viability of the chondrocytes in the PLDLA scaffolds. Cells were observed both on and in between the fibrils of scaffold. Furthermore, chondrocytes cultured in the bioreactor, regained their original round phenotypes, whereas those in the static flask culture were flattened in shape. Confocal microscopy revealed that chondrocytes from the bioreactor were attached on both sides of the scaffold and sustained viability better during the culture period. Uronic acid contents of the scaffolds, cultured in bioreactor, were significantly higher than in those cultured in static flasks for 4 weeks. In summary, our data suggests that the bioreactor is superior over the static flask culture when culturing chondrocytes in knitted PLDLA scaffold.
Amelioration of lapine osteoarthritis by treatment with glycosaminoglycan-peptide association complex (Rumalon).	The chondroprotective potential of glycosaminoglycan-peptide association complex (GP-C) was examined in the medial meniscectomy model of lapine osteoarthritis (OA). Prophylactic treatment with increasing doses of intramuscular GP-C (0.05-0.5 ml/kg) caused a significant reduction in OA lesion area and histologic scores, and the effect on disease activity appeared to be dose related. The DNA and uronic acid contents of OA tissue were unaffected by prophylactic treatment with GP-C. However, levels of hydroxyproline in OA cartilage increased to near control levels with prophylactic treatment. Cartilage levels of active and total metalloproteinases that digest proteoglycans were elevated in rabbits with OA; prophylactic treatment with low-dose GP-C (0.05 ml/kg) produced a significant reduction in active, but not total, enzyme. Cartilage levels of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases in animals with OA were comparable with control levels, but rose with increasing doses of GP-C. We also investigated GP-C as a therapeutic treatment in animals that had already developed OA lesions. Carbon black retention and histologic score returned to near-normal after therapeutic treatment with GP-C. Uronic acid and hydroxyproline levels were decreased in OA cartilage. Therapeutic treatment with GP-C had no statistically significant effect on uronic acid levels, but was associated with increased hydroxyproline content in the cartilage. The changes in metalloproteinase and metalloproteinase inhibitor were similar to those found in the studies of prophylactic treatment. The findings in this animal model may help explain some of the beneficial effects of GP-C in human OA.
Proteoglycan molecules in keratoconus corneas.	Proteoglycan molecules in keratoconus corneas were studied by immunohistochemical and electron microscopic histochemical methods. Compared with normal human control subjects, the staining intensity with monoclonal antibody 9-A-2 was enhanced in the stroma of scarred keratoconus corneas, whereas the intensity with antibody J-19 was reduced. The 9-A-2 experiment showed an increased immunoreactivity of dermatan sulfate proteoglycan epitopes, and the J-19 experiment indicated a decreased immunoreactivity of sulfated keratan sulfate epitopes. Uronic acid analyses were consistent with the 9-A-2 data. Electron microscopy performed after cuprolinic blue staining showed apparent accumulation of abnormally thick, chondroitinase ABC-sensitive, dermatan sulfate proteoglycan filaments in keratoconus corneas. Such filaments were especially prominent in scarred areas. In addition, Keratan sulfate proteoglycan filaments appeared to be less abundant than those found in normal control corneas. Similar alterations of both types of proteoglycan molecules were also seen and reported in scarred corneas. The similarity suggests that the proteoglycan abnormalities found in keratoconus corneas may be secondary, at least in part, to scarring.
Metabolic engineering of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for bioconversion of D-xylose to D-xylonate.	An NAD(+)-dependent D-xylose dehydrogenase, XylB, from Caulobacter crescentus was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, resulting in production of 17 ± 2 g D-xylonate l(-1) at 0.23 gl(-1)h(-1) from 23 g D-xylose l(-1) (with glucose and ethanol as co-substrates). D-Xylonate titre and production rate were increased and xylitol production decreased, compared to strains expressing genes encoding T. reesei or pig liver NADP(+)-dependent D-xylose dehydrogenases. D-Xylonate accumulated intracellularly to ∼70 mgg(-1); xylitol to ∼18 mgg(-1). The aldose reductase encoding gene GRE3 was deleted to reduce xylitol production. Cells expressing D-xylonolactone lactonase xylC from C. crescentus with xylB initially produced more extracellular D-xylonate than cells lacking xylC at both pH 5.5 and pH 3, and sustained higher production at pH 3. Cell vitality and viability decreased during D-xylonate production at pH 3.0. An industrial S. cerevisiae strain expressing xylB efficiently produced 43 g D-xylonate l(-1) from 49 g D-xylose l(-1).
Down-regulation of POLYGALACTURONASE1 alters firmness, tensile strength and water loss in apple (Malus x domestica) fruit.	While there is now a significant body of research correlating apple (Malus x domestica) fruit softening with the cell wall hydrolase ENDO-POLYGALACTURONASE1 (PG1), there is currently little knowledge of its physiological effects in planta. This study examined the effect of down regulation of PG1 expression in 'Royal Gala' apples, a cultivar that typically has high levels of PG1, and softens during fruit ripening.
Homologous and heterologous reactions of bacteriophages phi 41 and phi 12 on the capsular polysaccharides from Klebsiella K41 and K12.	The structures of the capsular polysaccharides from Klebsiella K41 and K12 are very similar and differ only in the lateral, terminal group of their respective repeating units. The bacteriophages phi 41 and phi 12 are shown to hydrolyze the same alpha-galactopyranosyl bond in each of the polysaccharides, giving rise to an oligosaccharide characteristic of the starting polysaccharide, irrespective of the phage employed. The presence of the uronic acid function is essential for the phages to be active, but the carboxyl group of the pyruvic acetal in K12 does not appear to play a role in the recognition process.
Autolytic system of Staphylococcus simulans 22: influence of cationic peptides on activity of N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine amidase.	Pep 5 and nisin are cationic peptide antibiotics which in addition to their membrane-disruptive action induce autolysis in staphylococci. To investigate the mechanism of lysis induction, the influence of the peptides on the activity of the N-acetylmuramoyl-L-alanine amidase of Staphylococcus simulans 22 was studied. In experiments with isolated cell walls at low ionic strength, the amidase activity was stimulated by the addition of Pep 5 and nisin, as well as by polylysine, streptomycin, and mono- and divalent cations. The concentrations necessary for activation depended on the nature of the cation and ranged from 5 microM for poly-L-lysine (n = 17) to 150 mM for Na+ at a cell wall concentration of 100 micrograms of cell walls per ml. No effect was observed if the cell walls were devoid of polyanionic constituents. Kinetic data suggested that the amidase bound to the teichoic and teichuronic acids of the cell wall and was thereby inhibited. Cationic molecules reversed this inhibition, most likely by displacing the enzyme from the polyanions. If the concentrations of the larger peptides were high in relation to cell wall concentration, the activation turned into inhibition, presumably by interfering with the access of the enzyme to its substrate. These experiments demonstrate that the activity of the amidase is modulated by basic peptides in vitro and help to explain how Pep 5 and nisin may cause lysis of treated cells.
Biochemical anatomy of human bone: comparative study of compact and spongy bone in femur, rib and iliac crest.	Using EDTA extraction procedure, compact and spongy bone from human femur, rib and iliac crest were compared in terms of their content in collagen, sialoprotein, proteoglycan and carbohydrate. The bone matrix sizes displayed significant variations, the femur having the smallest size and iliac crest the largest one. No significant difference in the matrix size has been found between the spongy and compact bone. The EDTA extractability of the spongy bone was higher than that of the compact bone, with femur showing the lowest extractability. The collagen content of the 3 bones studied was similar although the femur had slightly lower values. The sialic and uronic acids and hexose contents were higher in the femur than in the rib and iliac crest. The collagen/hexose, collagen/sialic acid and collagen/uronic acid ratios in the bone matrix were highest in the iliac crest and lowest in the femur, suggesting that alterations in the amounts of bone matrix can affect the mechanical properties of different parts of the bony skeleton and vice versa.
Biosynthesis of a galactose-and galacturonic acid-containing polysaccharide in Rhizobium meliloti.	Previous work showed that two different strains derived from a culture of Rhizobium meliloti 102F51 differed with respect to phage specificity, agglutinability by alfalfa seed lectin, and synthesis of a galactose-containing polysaccharide (R. A. Ugalde, H. Handelsman, and W. J. Brill, J. Bacteriol. 166:148-154, 1986). Inner membranes from the more competitive strain incorporated galactose from UDP-galactose when a thermostable factor was present. This factor has now been identified as UDP-galacturonic acid. UDP-glucuronic acid was also active as a donor; however, this activity may be due to the presence of a 4-epimerase. Galacturonic acid, together with galactose, is incorporated into the reaction product, which appears to be a polysaccharide formed by several repeating units of these two monosaccharides. Partial acid hydrolysis liberates the disaccharide with galactose at the reducing end.
2-keto-3-deoxygluconate 6-phosphate aldolase mutants of Escherichia coli.	A new mutation in Escherichia coli, giving inability to grow on gluconic, glucuronic, or galacturonic acids, has been identified as complete deficiency of 2-keto-3-deoxygluconate 6-phosphate (KDGP) aldolase activity. The genetic map position of the locus, eda, is about 35 min. The inability to grow on the uronic acids was expected, because the aldolase is on the sole known pathway of their metabolism. However, inability to grow on gluconate was less expected, because the hexose monophosphate shunt might be used, as happens in mutants blocked in the previous step, edd, of the Entner-Doudoroff pathway. The likely explanation of gluconate negativity is inhibition by accumulated KDGP, because gluconate is inhibitory to growth on other substances, and one type of gluconate revertant is eda(-), edd(-). KDGP is probably the inducer of KDGP aldolase.
Characterization of cathepsins in cartilage.	The presence of a cathepsin B-like enzyme in rabbit ear cartilage was established by the use of the synthetic substrates benzoyl-l-arginine amide and benzoyl-dl-arginine 2-naphthylamide. This was facilitated by using a technique that permits the incubation of a fixed weight of thin (18mu) cartilage sections with an appropriate exogenous substrate. The enzymic properties of cathepsin B in cartilage have been compared with an endogenous enzyme that liberates chondromucopeptide by degrading the cartilage matrix autocatalytically at pH5. Besides being maximally active at pH4.7, these cartilage enzymes are enhanced in activity by cysteine and inhibited by arginine analogues, iodoacetamide, chloroquine and mercuric chloride. They are not inhibited by EDTA, di-isopropyl phosphorofluoridate and diethyl p-nitrophenyl phosphate. When inhibiting the release of chondromucopeptide from cartilage at pH5, the arginine-containing synthetic substrates are hydrolysed simultaneously. These enzymes also share the same heat-inactivation characteristics at various pH values, being stable at acid pH and unstable at neutral and alkaline pH. The experimental evidence indicates that a cathepsin B-like enzyme may be partly responsible for the autolytic degradation of cartilage matrix at pH5.
Molecular cloning of Escherichia coli K-12 hexuronate system genes: exu region.	Lambda transducing bacteriophages carrying the exu region (min 66) of Escherichia coli K-12 (lambda pexu) were previously isolated. A restriction map of these phages is presented. Starting from the lambda pexu phage deoxyribonucleic acid, various endonuclease-generated exu fragments were subcloned into multicopy plasmid vectors, using in vitro recombination techniques. The precise location of the exu genes, relative to the endonuclease sites, was determined. Plasmids carrying uxaC and uxaA genes overproduced the corresponding enzymes 30- to 40-fold. When these plasmids were expressed in an in vitro protein-synthesizing system, two polypeptides of 50,500 and 53,000 molecular weights appeared and were identified as the uxaC and uxaA gene products. A 2.6-kilobase-pair deoxyribonucleic acid fragment was shown to code for a functional exuR repressor which controls the expression of the exu region. Plasmids containing this fragment overproduced the regulatory protein. It was possible to localize the operator region, uxaCo, which overlapped a PstI endonuclease site, and to confirm the transcriptional direction of the uxaC-uxaA operon from uxaC to uxaA.
Limb deformity induced in chick embryo by hydroxyurea.	After a dose of 800 micrograms of hydroxyurea (HU) was administered to day-4 chick embryos in ovo, the limb deformity including micromelia was observed. We examined the teratogenic mechanism of the action for HU by using histochemical and biochemical techniques. The present study provides histological evidence for the cell death and the depression of cell proliferation just after the treatment with HU and the retardation in periosteal ossification during the process of repair and/or recovery from cell death. On the other hand, the incorporation of [3H]glucosamine and [35S]sulfate into glycosaminoglycan was inhibited at day-7 and day-9, when the embryos are in the process of repair and/or recovery. The cartilage specific proteoglycan, an index of chondrogenesis, appeared at day-7, but the ratio of cartilagenous proteoglycan/noncartilagenous proteoglycan in the treated limbs was depressed. These results suggest that the slight retardation in chondrogenesis and/or the incomplete function of chondrocyte were induced by the treatment with HU in chick embryos. It is considered from above observation that the retardation in chondrogenesis and osteogenesis caused during the repair and/or recovery process of cell death brought about the limb deformity; shortening, thinning and bending of hind limbs.
Cell wall turnover in batch and chemostat cultures of Bacillus subtilis.	Wall turnover was studied in Bacillus subtilis. The loss of radioactively labeled wall polymers was followed during exponential growth in batch and chemostat cultures. Turnover kinetics were identical under all growth conditions; pulse-labeled wall material was lost with first-order kinetics, but only after exponential growth for 1 generation time after its incorporation. Similarly, continuously labeled cells showed an accelerating decrease in wall-bound radioactivity starting immediately after removal of the labeled precursor and also reached first-order kinetics after 1 generation time. A mathematical description was derived for these turnover kinetics, which embraced the concept of "spreading" of old wall chains (H. M. Pooley, J. Bacteriol. 125:1127-1138, 1976). Using this description, we were able to calculate from our experimental data the rate of loss of wall polymers from cells and the fraction of the wall which was sensitive to turnover. We found that about 20% of the wall was lost per generation time and that this loss was affected by turnover activity located in the outer 20 to 45% of the wall; rather large variations were found with both quantities and also between duplicate cultures. These parameters were quite independent of the growth rate (the specific growth rate varied from 1.3 h-1 in broth cultures to 0.2 to 0.3 h-1 in chemostat cultures) and of the nature of the anionic polymer in the wall (which was teichoic acid in cultures with an excess of phosphate and teichuronic acid in phosphate-limited chemostat cultures). Some implications of the observed wall turnover kinetics for models of wall growth in B. subtilis are discussed.
Cartilage differentiation in micro-mass cultures of chicken limb buds.	In micro-mass cultures of stage 23-24 chicken embryos the expression of cartilage phenotype was density dependent and it always took place practically to the same extent at the density of 2 X 10(5) cells per culture. The cells formed aggregates on day 1 and cartilage nodules appeared on day 2. By day 3, 17% of the culture surface consisted of areas showing cartilage differentiation and these regions represented more than 50% on day 6. By day 14, the centre of th cultures contained a mass of cartilage. The progression of cartilage differentiation was indicated by the increasing amount of toluidine blue fixed by the cultures. By day 14 the DNA and protein contents increased 8.7 fold and 16.7 fold, respectively. Uronic acid and OH-proline were detected from the 2nd day. From day 3 to 14, the microgram uronic acid and microgram OH-proline per microgram DNA gradually increased 25 fold and 14 fold, respectively. A decreased density of the inoculum reduced the probability of cartilage formation and it failed to occur at the density of 1.25 X 10(4) cells per culture. Stage 19-20 limb cultures with identical density had the same morphological characteristics. Aggregates appeared but nodules failed to do so in cell cultures of stage 28 limb bud soft tissue region. It is supposed that an oxygen gradient may be present in the cell aggregates.
Regulation of hexuronate system genes in Escherichia coli K-12: multiple regulation of the uxu operon by exuR and uxuR gene products.	New regulatory mutants of Escherichia coli K-1 carrying alterations of the uxuR gene were isolated and characterized. In the presence of superrepressed or derepressed uxuR mutations, mannonic hydrolyase (uxuA) and oxidoreductase relationship analyses suggested that the uxuR gene product acted as a repressor in the control of uxuA-uxuB operon expression. uxuR mutations were localized near min 97, and the following gene order was established: (argH)-uxuR-uxuB-uxuA-(thr). Properties of exuR (point and deletion) mutants showed that both exuR and uxuR regulatory gene products were involved in the control of the uxuA uxuB operon. Analysis of exuR uxuR double-derepressed mutants suggested that exuR and uxuR repressors act cooperatively to repress the uxu operon.
Role of membranes of mycelial Mucor rouxii in synthesis and secretion of cell wall matrix polymers.	Membrane fractions of the mycelial form of Mucor rouxii contained endogenous polyuronides and glycoproteins with sugar compositions similar to the cell wall polyuronide (mucoran) and extracellular (wall and filtrate) glycoproteins, respectively. The polyuronide pool was rapidly labeled with D-[U-14C]glucose and on pulse-chase experiments appeared to turn over, suggesting that these polymers were precursors of the wall mucoran. In contrast, the glycoproteins appeared to accumulate. Although the membrane-associated glycoproteins had molecular weights similar to those of the extracellular glycoproteins, the bulk of the membrane-associated polyuronides were of a molecular weight lower than that of the wall polyuronide.
Monosaccharide digestibility by dairy cows fed diets high in concentrate and containing alfalfa silages.	Alfalfa was ensiled by the conventional wilting process or as a mixture of 70% fresh alfalfa plus 30% wheat straw treated with SO2. The effects of these silages on the digestibility of monosaccharide constituents of the TMR by dairy cows was examined. Ten cows in early lactation were divided into two groups of 5 that had similar performance data at the onset of the experiment. Cows were fed for ad libitum intake for 28 d a TMR composed of 70% concentrates, 15% alfalfa hay, and 15% silage. The alfalfa silage had lower glucose, xylose, and total carbohydrates than the silage of alfalfa plus wheat straw treated with SO2. Digestibilities of DM (70 to 71%), OM (72%), and total carbohydrate (83%) were similar in the two TMR. The digestibilities of NDF carbohydrate for both TMR were similar. Regardless of treatment, NDF glucose was more digestible than NDF xylose and NDF uronic acid and less digestible than NDF arabinose, galactose, and mannose. The digestibility of total neutral detergent-soluble carbohydrates was 89% in both TMR, but those of neutral detergent-soluble xylose, mannose, and galactose were lower than those of neutral detergent-soluble glucose, arabinose, and pectin.
Initial reactions in biosynthesis of teichuronic acid of Micrococcus lysodeikticus cell walls.	The in vitro biosynthesis of teichuronic acid, the cell wall polysaccharide of Micrococcus lysodeikticus, occurs in two stages. In the initial stage, the particulate enzyme fraction utilizes uridine diphosphate N-acetylglucosamine (UDP-GlcNAc) and uridine diphosphate N-acetylmannosaminuronic acid (UDP-ManNAcUA) to form three intermediates. N-Acetylglucosamine is transferred from UDP-GlcNAc to a carrier lipid present in the particulate enzyme fraction to form the first intermediate, GlcNAc carrier lipid. N-Acetylmannosaminuronic acid is then transferred from UDP-ManNAcUA to the GlcNAc carrier lipid to form ManNAcUA-GlcNAc carrier lipid, the second intermediate. Finally, the transfer of an additional N-acetylmannosaminuronic acid residue from UDP-ManNAcUA yields the third intermediate, (ManNAcUA)2-GlcNAc carrier lipid. Reactions involving UDP-ManNAcUA release uridine diphosphate. Concomitant synthesis of peptidoglycan or membrane mannan inhibits the synthesis of the teichuronic acid intermediates, thereby providing indirect evidence that the carrier lipid is undecaprenol monophosphate.
