Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. HEM12 gene sequence and evidence for two conserved glycines essential for enzymatic activity.	The HEM12 gene from Saccharomyces cerevisiae encodes uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase which catalyzes the sequential decarboxylation of the four acetyl side chains of uroporphyrinogen to yield coproporphyrinogen, an intermediate in protoheme biosynthesis. The gene was isolated by functional complementation of a hem12 mutant. Sequencing revealed that the HEM12 gene encodes a protein of 362 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 41,348 Da. The amino acid sequence shares 50% identity with human and rat uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase and shows 40% identity with the N-terminus of an open reading frame described in Synechococcus sp. We determined the sequence of two hem12 mutations which lead to a totally inactive enzyme. They correspond to the amino acid changes Gly33----Asp and Gly300----Asp, located in two evolutionarily conserved regions. Each of these substitutions impairs binding of substrates without affecting the overall conformation of the protein. These results argue that a single active center exists in uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase.
Studies on the role of HtpG in the tetrapyrrole biosynthesis pathway of the cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942.	In cyanobacterium Synechococcus elongatus PCC 7942, we observed that htpG-overexpression caused remarkable growth inhibition. In addition, subcellular fractionation experiments showed that HtpG was localized in the membrane fraction. To understand its function in cyanobacteria, we carried out yeast two-hybrid screening to identify specific proteins interacting with HtpG, and found out, HemE, uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase. When compared to the wild-type strain, the htpG-null mutant and -overexpressing strains exhibited higher and lower cytosolic HemE activity, based on the coproporphyrin production, respectively. These results strongly suggest that HtpG is involved in the regulation of tetrapyrrole biosynthesis through interacting with HemE protein.
Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase is a radiosensitizing target for head and neck cancer.	Head and neck cancer (HNC) is the eighth most common malignancy worldwide, comprising a diverse group of cancers affecting the head and neck region. Despite advances in therapeutic options over the last few decades, treatment toxicities and overall clinical outcomes have remained disappointing, thereby underscoring a need to develop novel therapeutic approaches in HNC treatment. Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD), a key regulator of heme biosynthesis, was identified from an RNA interference-based high-throughput screen as a tumor-selective radiosensitizing target for HNC. UROD knockdown plus radiation induced caspase-mediated apoptosis and cell cycle arrest in HNC cells in vitro and suppressed the in vivo tumor-forming capacity of HNC cells, as well as delayed the growth of established tumor xenografts in mice. This radiosensitization appeared to be mediated by alterations in iron homeostasis and increased production of reactive oxygen species, resulting in enhanced tumor oxidative stress. Moreover, UROD was significantly overexpressed in HNC patient biopsies. Lower preradiation UROD mRNA expression correlated with improved disease-free survival, suggesting that UROD could potentially be used to predict radiation response. UROD down-regulation also radiosensitized several different models of human cancer, as well as sensitized tumors to chemotherapeutic agents, including 5-fluorouracil, cisplatin, and paclitaxel. Thus, our study has revealed UROD as a potent tumor-selective sensitizer for both radiation and chemotherapy, with potential relevance to many human malignancies.
Structure of the gene for human uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase.	Uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase, the fifth enzyme of the heme biosynthetic pathway, is an housekeeping enzyme whose activity is enhanced during erythropoietic differentiation. We have previously shown that this increased activity was in part accounted for by an enhanced transcription of the gene in erythropoietic tissues. To elucidate further the tissue specific regulation of an housekeeping gene we have isolated the human URO-D gene and determined its organization. The cloned gene comprises 10 exons spread over 3 Kb. Two transcriptional start sites were determined and analysis of 900 bp of the 5' flanking region suggests a very simple structural organization for the URO-D gene promoter. We also show that this gene is functional when transfected into mouse fibroblasts, and that its promoter is sensitive to a viral enhancer.
Molecular defects of uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase in a patient with mild hepatoerythropoietic porphyria.	The molecular defect of uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD) was examined in a patient with mild hepatoerythropoietic porphyria. To elucidate the UROD defect, we cloned UROD cDNAs from EBV-transformed lymphoblastoid cells of the proband using reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Nucleotide sequence analysis of the cloned UROD cDNAs revealed two separate missense mutations, each occurring in a separate allele. One mutation was a Val134-->Gln transition, and was due to three sequential point mutations (T417G418T419-->CCA); the other mutation was a His220-->Pro transition (A677-->C). UROD phenotype studies demonstrated that the TGT-->CCA mutation was inherited from the father, and the A-->C mutation was inherited from the mother. In contrast to the null activity previously described for a mutant UROD from a patient with familial porphyria cutanea tarda, these mutant URODs had subnormal but substantial enzyme activities, when expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells. This is the first demonstration of a mutation caused by three sequential base substitutions.
