A porphomethene inhibitor of uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase causes porphyria cutanea tarda.	Porphyria cutanea tarda (PCT), the most common form of porphyria in humans, is due to reduced activity of uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (URO-D) in the liver. Previous studies have demonstrated that protein levels of URO-D do not change when catalytic activity is reduced, suggesting that an inhibitor of URO-D is generated in hepatocytes. Here, we describe the identification and characterization of an inhibitor of URO-D in liver cytosolic extracts from two murine models of PCT: wild-type mice treated with iron, delta-aminolevulinic acid, and polychlorinated biphenyls; and mice with one null allele of Uro-d and two null alleles of the hemochromatosis gene (Uro-d(+/-), Hfe(-/-)) that develop PCT with no treatments. In both models, we identified an inhibitor of recombinant human URO-D (rhURO-D). The inhibitor was characterized by solid-phase extraction, chromatography, UV-visible spectroscopy, and mass spectroscopy and proved to be uroporphomethene, a compound in which one bridge carbon in the uroporphyrinogen macrocycle is oxidized. We synthesized uroporphomethene by photooxidation of enzymatically generated uroporphyrinogen I or III. Both uroporphomethenes inhibited rhURO-D, but the III isomer porphomethene was a more potent inhibitor. Finally, we detected an inhibitor of rhURO-D in cytosolic extracts of liver biopsy samples of patients with PCT. These studies define the mechanism underlying clinical expression of the PCT phenotype, namely oxidation of uroporphyrinogen to uroporphomethene, a competitive inhibitor of URO-D. The oxidation reaction is iron-dependent.
A possible strategy against head and neck cancer: in silico investigation of three-in-one inhibitors.	Overexpression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), Her2, and uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (UROD) occurs in a variety of malignant tumor tissues. UROD has potential to modulate tumor response of radiotherapy for head and neck cancer, and EGFR and Her2 are common drug targets for the treatment of head and neck cancer. This study attempts to find a possible lead compound backbone from TCM Database@Taiwan ( http://tcm.cmu.edu.tw/ ) for EGFR, Her2, and UROD proteins against head and neck cancer using computational techniques. Possible traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) lead compounds had potential binding affinities with EGFR, Her2, and UROD proteins. The candidates formed stable interactions with residues Arg803, Thr854 in EGFR, residues Thr862, Asp863 in Her2 protein, and residues Arg37, Arg41 in UROD protein, which are key residues in the binding or catalytic domain of EGFR, Her2, and UROD proteins. Thus, the TCM candidates indicated a possible molecule backbone for evolving potential inhibitors for three drug target proteins against head and neck cancer.
Oxidation of uroporphyrinogens by hydroxyl radicals. Evidence for nonporphyrin products as potential inhibitors of uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase.	A hydroxyl radical-generating system, hypoxanthine/xanthine oxidase/Fe-EDTA, oxidises uroporphyrinogens to uroporphyrins and to more polar nonporphyrin products. The evidence suggests that the nonporphyrin products have inhibitory activity towards mouse liver uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase which could explain some forms of human and experimental porphyrias.
Chemically-induced formation of an inhibitor of hepatic uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase in inbred mice with iron overload.	An inhibitor of hepatic uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.37) was demonstrated in heat-treated extracts of livers from C57BL/10ScSn mice with iron overload after a single dose (100 mg/kg; 350 mumol/kg) of hexachlorobenzene (HCB). Inhibition was not due to accumulated uroporphyrin since this could be removed by a SEP-PAK C18 cartridge without affecting inhibitor activity. The presence of the inhibitor could be first demonstrated 2 weeks after mice received HCB and before major elevation of hepatic porphyrin levels. Maximum inhibitory potential was reached at about 8 weeks and was still detected 25 weeks after the chemical, thus paralleling the depression of enzyme activity reported previously [Smith, Francis, Kay, Greig & Stewart (1986) Biochem. J. 238, 871-878]. The inhibitor was not detected following treatment of mice with either iron or HCB alone or after the decarboxylase activity was destroyed in vitro by the combination of uroporphyrin and light. The formation of the inhibitor by inbred mouse strains nominally Ah-responsive (C57BL/6J, C57BL/10ScSn, BALB/c, C3H/HeJ, CBA/J and A/J) and Ah-nonresponsive (SWR, AKR, 129, SJL, LP and DBA/2) did not correlate fully with their reported Ah-phenotype. There was a correlation amongst the Ah-responsive strains only, with hepatic ethoxyphenoxazone de-ethylase activity induced in parallel experiments by treatment with beta-naphthoflavone. De-ethylase activity induced by HCB, however, was considerably less than that with beta-naphthoflavone, which has not been reported as porphyrogenic. Other polyhalogenated chemicals, such as 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin, 2,3,4,2',3',4'-hexachlorobiphenyl and hexabromobenzene, also caused the formation of the inhibitor of uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase.
How the atmosphere and the presence of substrate affect the photo and non-photoinactivation of heme enzymes by uroporphyrin I.	1. The effect of URO I on the activity of ALA-D, PBGase, deaminase and URO-D, both in aerobiosis and anaerobiosis, was studied. 2. Photoinactivation of the enzymes was much lower in an anaerobic than in an aerobic atmosphere. 3. Dark inactivation in the absence of oxygen was lower than its presence. 4. Preincubation in the presence of ALA or PBG protected the enzymic activity of ALA-D, PBGase and deaminase against URO I-inactivation both under u.v. light and in the dark. 5. Photoinactivating action of URO I would be mediated by reactive oxygen species generated by the excited porphyrin after its absorption of light. Dark inactivation, in aerobiosis, can also be partly mediated by amino acid oxidation, although to a lesser extent than that observed under u.v. light.
