Determination of ursodeoxycholic acid in serum by a new fluorometric enzymatic method using 7 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase from Clostridium absonum.	A fluorometric enzymatic method for the determination of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) and its glycine and taurine conjugates in human serum has been developed. A simple and fast purification and preconcentration procedure using Sep Pak C18 cartridges was employed for the UDCA extraction from human serum. UDCA and its conjugates were determined in the extracted sample by an equilibrium method based on the enzymatic conversion of the 7 alpha-hydroxy group into 7-oxo group by beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate in the presence of 7 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (7 beta-HSD) and the produced NADPH was monitored fluorometrically. The 7 beta-HSD, which is not yet commercially available, was isolated from Clostridium absonum cultures (ATCC No. 27555) and purified by affinity chromatography. The method has a limit of detection of 0.8 microM in serum and the precision varied from 6.1 to 2.0% for low and high concentrations, respectively. The recovery of UDCA from serum samples was about 99% (range 85-105%). The method was successfully applied to UDCA determination in serum samples from patients treated with UDCA for primary biliary cirrhosis.
Effect of ursodeoxycholic acid on bile acid metabolism in primary biliary cirrhosis.	We have compared the effect of ursodeoxycholic acid with placebo on the clinical state, blood liver chemistries and serum and urinary bile acids in four patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. All parameters were evaluated monthly, and bile acid composition was measured by capillary gas-liquid chromatography. At the time of admission, all patients showed intense pruritus, and their serum alkaline phosphatase, AST and ALT levels were elevated 4.3, 2.7 and 2.3 times over control values. Serum bile acids were elevated almost 38-fold with 2.5 times more cholic acid than chenodeoxycholic acid. Urinary bile acid output was elevated 28 times the control values, and 36% were 1 beta-hydroxycholic acid, 1 beta-hydroxydeoxycholic acid and hyocholic acid (3 alpha,6 alpha, 7 alpha-trihydroxy-5 beta-cholanoic acid). Three months of placebo administration did not significantly affect the clinical or biochemical presentations, and the serum and urinary bile acid composition did not change. In contrast, ursodeoxycholic acid feeding (12 to 15 mg per kg per day) for 6 months abolished pruritus in two and lessened itching in two subjects and reduced serum alkaline phosphatase, AST and ALT levels by 21, 35 and 47%, respectively. The mean values for the total serum bile acid concentrations in these patients declined 26% from the pretreatment value, but the proportion of ursodeoxycholic acid increased from 3 to 40% of the total bile acids; thus, total fasting serum endogenous bile acid levels decreased almost 50%. Similar changes were noted in the urinary bile acids, in which ursodeoxycholic acid became the major bile acid, and approximately 18% were hydroxylated at C-1, C-6 and C-21.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hepatotoxic effect of bile acids in inflammatory bowel disease.	Lithocholate, a secondary bile acid, is hepatotoxic in many animal species including nonhuman primates. The induced histologic changes resemble those observed in patients with hepatic damage associated with inflammatory bowel disease. Accordingly, we have examined the hypothesis that lithocholate is of etiologic importance in causing this association by measuring serum and biliary lithocholates in inflammatory bowel disease patients with and without liver disease. Serum and biliary lithocholates and isolithocholates were normal in all patients. Because defective sulfation in the nonhuman primate which allows lithocholate to accumulate in the enterohepatic circulation is thought to be responsible for inducing liver damage and because secondary bile acids are reduced after colectomy and in established liver disease, we examined thae capacity of all patients to sulfate labeled lithocholate. Effective sulfation of lithocholate was demstrated in all groups. Despite the hepatotoxic effects observed in nonhuman primates, we have found no evidence so far to implicate lithocholate as an etiologic factor in inflammatory bowel disease and hepatic dysfunction nor have we detected other potentially hepatotoxic bile acids in these patients.
