Role for RNA-binding proteins implicated in pathogenic development of Ustilago maydis.	Ustilago maydis causes smut disease on corn. Successful infection depends on a number of morphological transitions, such as pheromone-dependent formation of conjugation tubes and the switch to filamentous dikaryotic growth, as well as different types of mycelial structures during growth within the host plant. In order to address the involvement of RNA-binding proteins during this developmental program, we identified 27 open reading frames from the genome sequence encoding potential RNA-binding proteins. They exhibit similarities to RNA-binding proteins with Pumilio homology domains (PUM), the K homology domain (KHD), the double-stranded RNA binding motif (DSRM), and the RNA recognition motif (RRM). For 18 of these genes, we generated replacement mutants in compatible haploid strains. Through analysis of growth behavior, morphology, cyclic AMP response, mating, and pathogenicity, we identified three candidates with aberrant phenotypes. Loss of Khd1, a K homology protein containing three KHDs, resulted in a cold-sensitive growth phenotype. Deletion of khd4 encoding a protein with five KHDs led to abnormal cell morphology, reduced mating, and virulence. rrm4Delta strains were affected in filamentous growth and pathogenicity. Rrm4 is an RRM protein with a so far unique domain organization consisting of three N-terminal RRMs as well as a domain found in the C terminus of poly(A)-binding proteins. These results indicate a role for RNA-binding proteins in regulation of morphology as well as in pathogenic development in U. maydis.
Reprogramming a maize plant: transcriptional and metabolic changes induced by the fungal biotroph Ustilago maydis.	The fungal pathogen Ustilago maydis establishes a biotrophic relationship with its host plant maize (Zea mays). Hallmarks of the disease are large plant tumours in which fungal proliferation occurs. Previous studies suggested that classical defence pathways are not activated. Confocal microscopy, global expression profiling and metabolic profiling now shows that U. maydis is recognized early and triggers defence responses. Many of these early response genes are downregulated at later time points, whereas several genes associated with suppression of cell death are induced. The interplay between fungus and host involves changes in hormone signalling, induction of antioxidant and secondary metabolism, as well as the prevention of source leaf establishment. Our data provide novel insights into the complexity of a biotrophic interaction.
Maize host requirements for Ustilago maydis tumor induction.	The biotrophic pathogen Ustilago maydis causes tumors by redirecting vegetative and floral development in maize (Zea mays L.). After fungal injection into immature tassels, tumors were found in all floral organs, with a progression of organ susceptibility that mirrors the sequential location of foci of cell division in developing spikelets. There is sharp demarcation between tumor-forming zones and areas with normal spikelet maturation and pollen shed; within and immediately adjacent to the tumor zone, developing anthers often emerge precociously and exhibit a range of developmental defects suggesting that U. maydis signals and host responses are restricted spatially. Male-sterile maize mutants with defects in anther cell division patterns and cell fate acquisition prior to meiosis formed normal adult leaf tumors, but failed to form anther tumors. Methyl jasmonate and brassinosteroid phenocopied these early-acting anther developmental mutants by generating sterile zones within tassels that never formed tumors. Although auxin, cytokinin, abscisic acid and gibberellin did not impede tassel development, the Dwarf8 mutant defective in gibberellin signaling lacked tassel tumors; the anther ear1 mutant reduced in gibberellin content formed normal tumors; and Knotted1, in which there is excessive growth of leaf tissue, formed much larger vegetative and tassel tumors. We propose the hypothesis that host growth potential and tissue identity modulate the ability of U. maydis to redirect differentiation and induce tumors.
Two linked genes encoding a secreted effector and a membrane protein are essential for Ustilago maydis-induced tumour formation.	Ustilago maydis is a biotrophic fungal pathogen that colonizes living tissue of its host plant maize. Based on transcriptional upregulation during biotrophic development we identified the pit (proteins important for tumours) cluster, a novel gene cluster comprising four genes of which two are predicted to encode secreted effectors. Disruption of the gene cluster abolishes U. maydis-induced tumour formation and this phenotype can be caused by deleting either pit1 encoding a transmembrane protein or pit2 encoding a secreted protein. Pit1 localizes to the fungal plasma membrane at hyphal tips, endosomes and vacuoles while Pit2 is secreted to the biotrophic interface. Both Δpit1 and Δpit2 mutants are able to penetrate maize epidermis and grow intracellularly at sites of infection but fail to spread in the infected leaf. Microarray analysis shows an indistinguishable response of the plant to infection by Δpit1 and Δpit2 mutant strains. Transcriptional activation of maize defence genes in infections with Δpit1/2 mutant strains indicates that the mutants have a defect in suppressing plant immune responses. Our results suggest that the activity of Pit1 and Pit2 during tumour formation might be functionally linked and we discuss possibilities for a putative functional connection of the two proteins.
