The role of PET scanning in the detection of recurrent cervical cancer.	[(18)F] Fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) has recently been established as a sensitive and specific method of detecting lymph node metastases in newly diagnosed cervical cancer. Little is known about the efficacy of PET for detecting recurrent disease. We evaluated the potential role of FDG PET in the context of suspected recurrent cervical cancer.
Lymphoscintigraphy with 123I-labelled epidermal growth factor.	We have used 123I-labelled epidermal growth factor (EGF) scans to study 14 patients with advanced cervical cancer. Abnormal lymph node imaging was seen most clearly 6-8 h after the injection and revealed abnormal uptake by pelvic lymph nodes in 11 patients. 4 of these 11 had abnormal computerised tomographic and ultrasound scans; in the other 7 conventional radiology did not confirm the presence of disease.
Adaptive brachytherapy treatment planning for cervical cancer using FDG-PET.	A dosimetric study was conducted to compare intracavitary brachytherapy using both a conventional and a custom loading intended to cover a positron emission tomography (PET)-defined tumor volume in patients with cervix cancer.
A methodology for incorporating functional bone marrow sparing in IMRT planning for pelvic radiation therapy.	The purpose of this study was to design a radiation therapy treatment planning approach that would spare hematopoietically active bone marrow using [(18)F]FLT PET imaging.
Laparoscopic extraperitoneal para-aortic lymphadenectomy in locally advanced cervical cancer: a prospective correlation of surgical findings with positron emission tomography/computed tomography findings.	Failure to detect metastasis to para-aortic nodes in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer leads to suboptimal treatment. No previous studies have prospectively compared positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) with laparoscopic extraperitoneal staging in the evaluation of para-aortic lymph nodes.
Experience in using radionuclide study methods in the gynecological cancer clinic]	The report deals with a retrospective analysis of applications of different in vivo and in vitro methods of radionuclide studies (1863) in patients with gynecological tumors in 1972-1985. The said methods were employed for making primary diagnosis, assessing tumor extension as well as for evaluating the effects of tumor growth and the efficacy of radiation and surgical treatment. Apart from offering considerable advantages as diagnostic procedures, radionuclide studies may be used in planning treatment modalities and schemes of rehabilitation of cancer patients. The results also suggest a wider application of nuclear procedures in addressing the diagnostic problems of practice of oncology.
