Phase I-II study of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy followed by radical surgery in locally advanced cervical cancer.	The usefulness of neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NAC) regimens has been reported; however, the effect of NAC for advanced stages (especially stage III-IVA) is thought to be insufficient. We conducted a phase I-II study of neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy consisting of intra-arterial (i.a.) infusion of carboplatin and intracavitary brachytherapy in patients with locally advanced cervical cancer to achieve the new NAC method. Sixteen eligible patients included those with previously untreated stage IIB, III or IVA cancer with bulky tumor. Brachytherapy using iridium-192 was performed with concurrent i.a. chemotherapy with carboplatin (200, 300 and 400 mg/m2). Treatment was repeated every 4 weeks for a total of two cycles. Both hematologic and non-hematologic toxicities were generally mild. Grade 4 hematologic toxicity was observed in 12.5% and there were no grade III or IV non-hematologic toxicities. The optimal dose of carboplatin was determined to be 400 mg/m2. Among 16 patients, six showed complete response (37.5%) and nine showed partial response (56.3%), for an overall response rate of 93.8%. All 15 responding patients underwent radical surgery with a pelvic lymphadenectomy and postoperative radiotherapy. The combination of brachytherapy and i.a. chemotherapy with carboplatin is a promising regimen for NAC in locally advanced cervical cancer.
HIV and uterine cervical cancer]	There is an increased risk in patients infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) to he also infected with the human papillomavirus (HPV). Type of HPV is the same in patients infected -or not- by the HIV (in patients with the same criteria of HIV infection). However, there is a higher rate of persistent HPV infections in HIV+ patients, especially with oncogenic virus subtypes. Persistence of high-risk virus is necessary for the development of dysplasic lesions: therefore, there is a higher incidence of cervical intra-epithelial neoplasias (CIN) and cervical cancers in HIV+ patients. In 1993, the Centers of Disease Control (CDC) designated invasive cervical carcinoma as a defining condition of AIDS. After conservative treatment in CIN, the recurrence rate is higher, together with a high rate of positive margins. It may he of some interest to perform a medical treatment, in association with the dysplasia surgical procedure. Invasive cancers have a worse pronostic than in HIV- patients, due to the specific aggressiveness of cervical carcinomas in seropositive patients. Standard treatment consists in surgery and radiotherapy with or without cisplatin chemotherapy, depending on the stage. This treatment is modulated according to CD4 rate. Antiviral treatment and infectious prophylaxis have to be reinforced. A special care will be required for radiotherapy technical execution and clinical (digestive) and hematological follow-up through out the treatment.
Vaccine and antibody-directed T cell tumour immunotherapy.	Clearer evidence for immune surveillance in malignancy and the identification of many new tumour-associated antigens (TAAs) have driven novel vaccine and antibody-targeted responses for therapy in cancer. The exploitation of active immunisation may be particularly favourable for TAA where tolerance is incomplete but passive immunisation may offer an additional strategy where the immune repertoire is affected by either tolerance or immune suppression. This review will consider how to utilise both active and passive types of therapy delivered by T cells in the context of the failure of tumour-specific immunity by presenting cancer patients. This article will outline the progress, problems and prospects of several different vaccine and antibody-targeted approaches for immunotherapy of cancer where proof of principle pre-clinical studies have been or will soon be translated into the clinic. Two examples of vaccination-based therapies where both T cell- and antibody-mediated anti-tumour responses are likely to be relevant and two examples of oncofoetal antigen-specific antibody-directed T cell therapies are described in the following sections: (1) therapeutic vaccination against human papillomavirus (HPV) antigens in cervical neoplasia; (2) B cell lymphoma vaccines including against immunoglobulin idiotype; (3) oncofoetal antigens as tumour targets for redirecting T cells with antibody strategies.
Demographic variables routinely collected at colposcopic examination do not predict who will default from conservative management of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia I.	As a result of the low incidence of progression from low grade epithelial abnormalities to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 3 or cervical cancer, a conservative approach to management is supported, especially in young women. Loss to follow-up is a recognised problem with a conservative approach however, with women defaulting known to experience higher rates of cancer.
Management of multicentric lesions of the lower genital tract.	To report management and outcome of multicentric lesions of the lower genital tract. To define risk factors of recurrence.
Progress in gynecologic cancer research: the Gynecologic Oncology Group experience.	Since 1970, the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) has been a leader in clinical research in female pelvic cancers. Currently comprising 59 institutions and their affiliates in the United States, Canada, and elsewhere, the GOG has defined, principally through phase III randomized clinical trials, the standard of care for several stages and types of gynecologic cancer. This review will briefly summarize, in the context of research done concurrently by other groups and institutions, important GOG trials that have moved the field forward, especially in ovarian, endometrial, and cervical cancers. The role of cisplatin, carboplatin, and paclitaxel, as well as other drugs and combinations, in gynecologic cancer has been extensively studied by the GOG, as has chemoradiation in cervical cancer. Surgical staging of cervical and endometrial cancers has provided new insights and guidance for management. The benefits and limitations of radiation therapy in these diseases have been examined carefully. Thus, the stage has been set for further progress in this field.
Cervix carcinoma in pregnancy]	In this retrospective study we discuss 12 cases of cervical cancer diagnosed during pregnancy. At the time of diagnosis of cervical cancer 11/12 patients were older than 29 years. According to FIGO 3/12 cases were in stage Ia1 cervical carcinoma and 9/12 in stage Ib. After a follow up of at least 35 months no recurrence occurred. We believe, that pregnancy has no negative effect on prognosis of cervical cancer.
High-dose-rate afterloading brachytherapy, external radiation therapy, and combination chemotherapy in poor-prognosis cancer of the cervix.	Fourteen patients with poor-prognosis cervical cancer were treated with concurrent chemotherapy (cisplatin and mitomycin-C), external radiation therapy (RT), and high-dose-rate (HDR) brachytherapy. Pelvic RT was delivered as (a) external-beam radiation (four-field box technique, 40.0 Gy), (b) brachytherapy using HDR 60Co or 192Ir (3.80 Gy/fraction, thrice weekly; total dose, 46.83 Gy) with intrauterine stent, and (c) parametrial boost using an AP field with custom-fabricated step wedges. Post-radical-hysterectomy patients received 50.40 Gy external RT and 3.23 Gy/day vaginal cylinder HDR at 1/2-cm depth (total dose, 16.15 Gy). Complete clinical and radiographic response was noted in all evaluable patients who are alive with no evidence of disease, 3 to 27 months after completion of therapy (median, 9 months). Toxicity consisted of grade 2 to 3 hematologic toxicity (4 patients) and nausea and vomiting in all, but grade 3 in only 2 patients. One patient had grade 2 diarrhea. The only major complication (small bowel obstruction) occurred in a patient with lupus vasculitis. This pilot study demonstrates the feasibility of this regimen in an outpatient setting with acceptable toxicity. More prolonged follow-up of our patients is required to determine its impact on long-term survival.
3D versus 2D steering in patient anatomies: a comparison using hyperthermia treatment planning.	In this study hyperthermia treatment planning is used to investigate whether the target temperature during hyperthermia treatment can be increased using the 3D AMC-8 instead of the 2D AMC-4 system (AMC: Academic Medical Center).
Correlation between radiation dose to ¹⁸F-FDG-PET defined active bone marrow subregions and acute hematologic toxicity in cervical cancer patients treated with chemoradiotherapy.	To test the hypothesis that radiation dose to (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG-PET)-defined active bone marrow (BM(ACT)) subregions is correlated with hematologic toxicity in cervical cancer patients treated with chemoradiotherapy.
Intensity-modulated arc therapy with cisplatin as neo-adjuvant treatment for primary irresectable cervical cancer. Toxicity, tumour response and outcome.	The goal of this work was to evaluate the feasibility and outcome of intensity-modulated arc therapy ± cisplatin (IMAT ± C) followed by hysterectomy for locally advanced cervical cancer.
Biologic therapies and personalized medicine in gynecologic malignancies.	Through advances in human genomic sequencing, the unique molecular biology that predisposes certain individuals to either health or disease has now been illuminated. Although many malignancies behave similarly on a phenotypic level, biologically there exist multiple layers of interconnected molecular and cellular pathways that may make each patient’s disease significantly more unique than previously appreciated. In gynecologic oncology, the most progress in developing targeted biologics has been in the treatment of ovarian cancers. Future investigations will see further development in endometrial and cervical cancers. Technology such as whole genome sequencing can theoretically identify the individual tumor’s genetic profile; however, identifying the priority pathways for therapeutic interventions and subsequent complex interactions remains a significant challenge. New therapeutic technologies such as siRNA and immune modulators will also play a promising role in the movement toward individualized therapies. It is hoped that the identification and use of targeted agents will lead to individualized care that in turn will lead to significantly improved outcomes manifested by more cures and better quality of life through amelioration of toxicities.
Zinc finger arrays binding human papillomavirus types 16 and 18 genomic DNA: precursors of gene-therapeutics for in-situ reversal of associated cervical neoplasia.	Human papillomavirus (HPV) types 16 and 18 are the high-risk, sexually transmitted infectious causes of most cervical intraepithelial neoplasias (CIN) or cancers. While efficacious vaccines to reduce the sexual acquisition of these high-risk HPVs have recently been introduced, no virus-targeted therapies exist for those already exposed and infected. Considering the oncogenic role of the transforming (E6 and E7) genes of high-risk HPVs in the slow pathogenesis of cervical cancer, we hypothesize that timely disruption or abolition of HPV genome expression within pre-cancerous lesions identified at screening may reverse neoplasia. We aimed to derive model zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs) for mutagenesis of the genomes of two high-risk HPV (types 16 & 18).
Adjuvant chemotherapy after primary treatments for cervical cancer: a critical point of view and review of the literature.	Cervical cancer is the second most frequent female malignancy worldwide. Concurrent chemoradiotherapy represents the standard of care for patients with advanced stage cervical cancer, while radical surgery (RS) and radiotherapy is widely used for treating early stage cervical cancer. However, the poor control of micrometastasis, declining operability, the lack of radiotherapy departments and the high incidence of long-term complications due to radiotherapy have brought about the development of different therapeutic approaches such as neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by RS. Unfortunately, treatment results are still unsatisfactory due to a high recurrence rate and several authors have studied the possibility to add an adjuvant treatment to primary therapy. We reviewed the literature concerning the role of adjuvant chemotherapy in advanced cervical cancer after neoadjuvant chemotherapy followed by RS and after chemoradiotherapy. 
Cooperation of proton therapy and chemotherapy]	Proton therapy was developed as one of the most promising radiation therapy techniques and it has shown remarkable improvement of the local cure rate of cancer lesions and decrease of late injury. However, cooperation with chemotherapy is to be considered as a reasonable way to further improve the radical cure rate, because the indication of proton therapy is limited to a single primary lesion. Thereupon, combined chemotherapy before or after completion of the proton therapy of the primary lesion to control latent metastases of lung cancer, esophageal cancer, to control multicentric lesions of liver cancer, urinary bladder cancer, or to diminish the size of the lesions with too much volume, could well contribute to improved clinical results.
Hydroxyurea plus pelvic radiation versus placebo plus pelvic radiation in surgically staged stage IIIB cervical cancer.	Forty-five evaluable patients with stage IIIB carcinoma of the uterine cervix were entered into a prospective, double-blind, randomized study to evaluate the possible radiation-potentiating properties of hydroxyurea. All patients were documented to be without para-aortic lymph node metastasis by pretherapy staging para-aortic lymphadenectomy. The original plan of therapy was for continuous therapy (200 rads/day) of 6,000 rads of pelvic radiation for 6 weeks plus intrauterine radium. However, 16 patients received 6,000 rads in 8 weeks by split-course therapy (2-week rest after 3,000 rads) plus radium. Twenty-nine patients received the planned continuous therapy. The median dose of pelvic radiation for patients who received continuous therapy or split-course radiation was 6,000 rads. Leukopenia (WBC less than 2,500/mm3) was significantly increased in the patients given hydroxyurea as compared to those given placebo (P less than .001). There was no statistically significant difference relative to anemia, thrombocytopenia, radiation skin reaction, diarrhea, or radiation-induced complications requiring surgical correction. The estimated 5-year progression-free survival rate for the combined, continuous, and split-course radiation therapy hydroxyurea patients was 60%, and its was 52% for the corresponding placebo patients (P = .49). However, the estimated 5-year progression free survival rate for the correctly treated patients (continuous therapy) was 91% for the hydroxyurea group and 60% for the placebo group (P less than .06).
Bladder cooling in patients treated with regional hyperthermia of the pelvis using an annular phased array.	Regional hyperthermia for the treatment of deep seated tumors is often limited by excessive heating of normal tissues, usually with associated patient pain and/or discomfort. The use of bladder cooling via perfusion of distilled water through a modified tri-lumen irrigation catheter as an aid to circumventing this problem in one anatomical region is described. This relatively simple technique provided rapid pain relief and permitted completion of the hyperthermia treatment in a satisfactory manner. Modifications of this technique may permit selective heating and/or cooling of the bladder during regional hyperthermia treatments in the pelvis.
Stages IB and IIA carcinoma of the cervix treated by radiation and radical hysterectomy. Findings and results in 184 patients.	Although the results of both radiotherapy and radical surgery for stages IB and IIA carcinoma of the cervix are good, a small percentage of cancers are resistant to radiation therapy. Combined radiation and surgery therefore seems an attractive alternative. A study of 184 patients in whom radium application was followed by radical abdominal hysterectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy 6 weeks later is reported. The uncorrected 5-year survival rate of 85.7% is not significantly better than results obtained by surgery alone or radiotherapy alone. Some guidelines are suggested to rationalise individual treatment of these patients.
Clinical trials of radiotherapy in hyperbaric oxygen at Portsmouth, 1964--1976.	For 12 years randomised clinical trials have been run at Portsmouth in collaboration with the Medical Research Council's Working Party on radiotherapy and high pressure oxygen to determine the survival rate of patients treated by megavoltage radiotherapy in high pressure oxygen (HPO) compared with those treated in air at atmospheric pressure. Five hundred and five patients have been included, 280 with carcinoma bronchus, 163 with carcinoma bladder and 62 with carcinoma cervix stage III. With conventional small fraction daily radiotherapy, the use of HPO has not improved survival in carcinoma of the bronchus and of the bladder. When six fractions of 600 rad maximum tissue dose are given in HPO, some improved survival is shown in carcinoma of the bronchus and of the cervix compared with the same dose in the air series. In the cervix, the survival rate in HPO is almost the same as that of a retrospective series treated by an intrauterine radium tube followed by 6000 rad central depth dose to the whole true pelvis in air. Large fraction radiotherapy has not given improved survival when using adjuvant HPO in carcinoma of the bladder. The bladder trial has now been abandoned.
Urinary complications and sequelae of carcinoma of the cervix treatment (author's transl)]	The authors describe the sequelae and urinary complications of:--radiotherapy only in 524 patients, stage I to III treated between 1960 and 1974;--721 operations performed between 1968 and 1974, according to the protocol of treatment as used in the Fondation Curie. This reveals:--for irradiated patients, no iatrogenic damage to the upper urinary tract, whilst bladder complications were often present. No major complication was found in this group;--for operated patients, the surgical act was without harmful consequence in the 672 cases when the operation was foreseen in the initial protocol (0,6% of chief complications). On the other hand, surgery performed for persistent tumour or recurrence after exclusive radiotherapy showed 8 per cent of chief complications. In this group they analyse the factors that might influence ureterohydronephroses, especially the extent of node dissection and associated external irradiation.
Vascular complications after the treatment of carcinoma of the cervix (author's transl)]	Vascular complications after this treatment are rare. Artery stenosis or occlusions, more often iliac, are well recognized complications of postoperative radiotherapy. These segmental lesions, sometimes, are pathological lesions similar to arteriosclerotic changes. These lesions may be corrected later on after the treatment of carcinoma of the cervix. The venous complications often present later and tall within the context of post thrombotic syndrome. Conservative treatment is indicated alone. A well recognized complication, lymphedema is usually mild; a superimposed iliofemoral thrombophlebitis often may be suspected.
Non-hodgkin's malignant lymphoma in the uterine cervix]	Two cases are presented of very rare primary situation of Non-Hodgkin malignant lymphoma in the uterine cervix. The attention is paid to the possibility of various methods of treatment, stressing the high effectiveness of chemo- and radiotherapy.
Gynecologic malignancies.	No new publication appeared in the past year on early stage ovarian cancer. The current GOG study will help determine the relative benefits and toxicities of intraperitoneal P32 versus cyclophosphamide and cisplatin in this group of patients. Recent studies in advanced ovarian carcinoma suggest a modest additional benefit for multidrug regimens, but cisplatin and cyclophosphamide remains an acceptable first line treatment for stage III and IV disease. Additional information on the use of carboplatin in advanced disease has been published, and this agent is now accepted as part of standard first line treatment programs. Platinum-based chemotherapy continues to be the mainstay of treatment for recurrent disease. With the commercial availability of taxol, a new salvage treatment is now available. Taxol will be increasingly studied as a part of front-line therapy as well as its role in the salvage setting. Altretamine and ifosfamide appear to have activity even in some patients with platinum-resistant disease, but these drugs will not likely have a major impact on ovarian cancer treatment. The use of high-dose chemotherapy with autologous bone marrow or peripheral stem cell support offers an exciting and potentially beneficial approach for patients with poor prognosis disease. The use of intraperitoneal chemotherapy and biologic agents continues to be problematic, and additional improvements are needed before they are considered useful outside of a research setting. With the exception of P32 for early stage disease, radiation therapy is likely to continue to play a minor role in the treatment of ovarian cancer. Few studies involving non-epithelial ovarian carcinomas were published during the past year. A definitive report was published demonstrating the activity of cisplatin-based chemotherapy (BEP) in patients with advanced dysgerminoma. Chemotherapy which preserves fertility provides an effective alternative to irradiation. Cisplatin-based chemotherapy was active in mixed mullerian tumors of the ovary although the prognosis of these patients was worse than patients with epithelial ovarian cancer. Concurrent chemotherapy added to irradiation has not improved survival over radiotherapy alone in patients with cancer of the uterine cervix. Patients still failed locally and distantly. Extended field irradiation to involved paraaortic lymph nodes with weekly cisplatin generated promising pilot data. Randomized trials evaluating the use of neoadjuvant chemotherapy prior to pelvic radiotherapy showed no benefit and increased toxicity. Ifosfamide alone or in combination regimens is an active drug but with serious side effects which require careful monitoring.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Combined modality therapy for gynecologic cancer.	The use of combined modality therapy in the primary management of gynecologic cancer continues to be explored. Although early ovarian cancer is treated with postoperative adjuvant treatment, the data to support its value is lacking. In advanced disease, paclitaxel has emerged as the most optimal treatment after maximal cytoreduction. Although studies on consolidative therapy using radiotherapy, intraperitoneal therapy, or further chemotherapy are reported, there are no comparative data against a control arm. In those subsets of endometrial cancer patients who have a poor survival, adjuvant treatment strategies using chemotherapy or wide-field whole-abdominal therapy is being evaluated to improve outcome. Small phase II studies of either sequential or concurrent chemotherapy with radiation continue to be reported in advanced cervix cancer, yet large prospective randomized trials comparing standard radiotherapy to combined chemotherapy and radiotherapy are scarce. Alternative strategies to standard surgery to limit morbidity is being explored in the management of vulvar cancer with encouraging results. More properly conducted phase III trials are necessary to evaluate the efficacy of these newer treatment strategies.
Do routine antibiotics after loop diathermy excision reduce morbidity?	To evaluate whether routinely giving an antibiotic after loop diathermy excision of the cervical transformation zone reduced post-operative vaginal loss.
