Changes in peripheral blood lymphocyte subsets in patients undergoing radiotherapy.	To investigate the changes in peripheral blood lymphocyte subpopulations in patients undergoing radiotherapy.
Interleukin-12 cDNA skin transfection potentiates human papillomavirus E6 DNA vaccine-induced antitumor immune response.	Human papillomaviruses are associated with >90% of all cases of uterine cervical tumors. The E6 and E7 oncoproteins of human papillomavirus are potentially ideal targets of immune therapy for cervical cancer, because their expression is necessary for cellular transformation. Although both E6 and E7 proteins contain numerous predicted cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes that are capable of binding to human leukocyte antigens, the majority of earlier in vivo tumor rejection studies have focused on E7. We show here that gene gun-mediated skin transfection of plasmid vector encoding the nontransforming, amino-terminal half of E6 resulted in the induction of E6-specific CTL activity and tumor rejection in a murine model. The use of recombinant murine interleukin-12 (rmIL-12) as a vaccine adjuvant has been shown to result in both an enhancement and suppression of immune responses, depending upon the doses of rmIL-12 and the experimental systems used. We demonstrate here that local expression of transgenic mIL-12 at the E6 DNA vaccination site potentiated E6-specific CTL responses and increased vaccine-induced antitumor therapeutic efficacy. Our results indicate that transfection of the mIL-12 gene at the vaccination site may represent an attractive adjuvant for cancer gene immunotherapy.
Heat shock protein expression and immunity: relevance to gynecologic oncology.	Heat shock proteins function as molecular chaperones, guiding the transport, assembly and degradation of intracellular polypeptides. Under the influence of non-physiological conditions heat shock protein synthesis is accelerated to aid cell survival. Thus, over-production of heat shock proteins protects malignantly transformed cells from apoptotic cell death and fosters resistance to chemotherapeutic agents and irradiation. Individual heat shock proteins, such as the 27 kDa (hsp27) and 70 kDa (hsp70) heat shock proteins, their antibodies and/or genotypes of polymorphic genes may have diagnostic and prognostic value for different gynecologic malignancies. The possible exploitation of the properties of heat shock proteins for development of unique anti-cancer therapies in individuals resistant to traditional treatment is currently under active investigation.
Frequent expression of immunoreactive somatostatin receptors in cervical and endometrial cancer.	A variety of human cancers has been shown to express somatostatin receptors which can be utilized for in vivo tumor targeting. Although the somatostatin receptor status of mammary and ovarian cancer has been studied in detail, somatostatin receptors have not been examined in other gynecological malignancies such as cervical or endometrial carcinoma.
A prognostic insight on in vivo expression of interleukin-6 in uterine cervical cancer.	Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a multifunctional cytokine with a growth promoting role in cancers. In an attempt to evaluate the prognostic significance of IL-6, we have studied the localization of this cytokine by immunohistochemical methods in normal, premalignant, and invasive cervical cancers. We stained frozen sections with a monoclonal antibody specific for human IL-6 and demonstrated that tumor cells show positivity with high intensity and stromal cells with moderate intensity. T cells and macrophages, components of the stroma that secrete IL-6, were also looked at. While T cells showed a weak positive correlation, CD68-positive macrophages showed significant positive correlation (P < 0.05) with IL-6 positivity in stroma. The patients were followed up for 40 months after treatment with standard radiotherapy regimen and showed residual tumor where pretreatment IL-6 levels were high. Our results suggest its possible candidature as a prognostic indicator of cervical cancer.
Long-term immune dysfunction after radiotherapy to the head and neck area.	Hematological side effects are not generally expected due to radiotherapy involving limited radiation fields; however, patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCH and N) receiving radiation therapy frequently have chronic intraoral infections. Xerostomia has been implicated as a cause of it, but local or systemic immune alterations are not usually considered.
Lymphoid cell distribution as prognostic factor in carcinoma of the uterine cervix.	Pretreatment assessment of blood lymphoid cells was performed in 44 patients with carcinoma of the cervix and in 19 healthy controls. White blood cells were determined by routine differential counting, and T-lymphocyte subsets and monocytes were quantitated using monoclonal antibodies. Increase in monocyte numbers, as determined by the 1D5 antibody, was seen in the cancer patients, especially in the group with advanced disease. No change in T-lymphocyte subpopulations could be found. During the 5-year follow-up period, 17 patients had a recurrence or died of cancer. The best prognostic information was obtained from conventional clinical parameters, e.g. stage, tumor size and lymph node status. Increased numbers of granulocytes and monocytes were found in advanced stage disease but had no independent prognostic influence. In pelvic lymph node biopsies taken from patients undergoing Wertheim-Meigs operation the T-helper/T-suppressor ratio was higher and the monocyte number lower than in peripheral blood. No correlation could be detected between node cell distribution and the prognosis. It is concluded that immunological testing, as performed in this study, elicits very little new prognostic information.
Frequent expression of the tumor antigen CAK1 in squamous-cell carcinomas.	K1 is a murine monoclonal antibody (MAb) derived from a hybridoma generated by the fusion of splenocytes of BALB/c mice immunized with a human ovarian tumor cell line, OVCAR-3. This antibody reacts strongly with epithelial ovarian tumors and mesotheliomas. The antigen recognized by MAb K1, designated CAK1, has recently been characterized as a 40-kDa protein probably anchored to the cell surface by glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol. Using immunoperoxidase histochemical methods, we examined 37 squamous-cell carcinoma (SqCC) samples from cervix, lung, esophagus and other origins, and 12 normal squamous epithelia of the cervix and esophagus for their reactivity with MAb K1. Of the SqCC specimens, 81% showed K1 reactivity with variable intensity, but none of 12 normal tissue samples of squamous epithelia did so. Two patterns of CAK1 expression in tumor samples were found, i.e., a heterogeneous pattern with strong intensity, and a homogeneous pattern with weak intensity. Three carcinomas in situ of the larynx, vulva and esophagus were moderately positive with K1, suggesting that CAK1 antigen may occur in the early stage of carcinogenesis of SqCC. The expression of CAK1 was also compared with expression of CA125, HER-2/neu, p53 and P-glycoprotein, and MAb K1 was found to react most consistently with SqCC. Since K1 reacts with a majority of cervical and esophageal carcinomas but has no detectable reactivity in normal epithelia of the cervix uteri and esophagus, MAb K1 could be of value as a reagent to help distinguish between normal and neoplastic cells on sections as well as in cytological samples.
Immunoglobulins and secretory component in endometrium and cervix. Influence of inflammation and carcinoma.	The synthesis of immunoglobulins and secretory component in the cervix and the endometrium was studied by tissue culture and immunofluorescence. Out of the 75 cervical biopsies studied, 17 were epidermoid carcinomas, 8 were carcinomas in situ and 23 tissues had inflammatory or metaplastic lesions. A total of 49 samples from endometrium were studied, out of which 22 were in the proliferative phase, 17 were in the secretory phase and 4 were carcinomas. In the cervical tissues without lesions, there were very few plasmacytes, the synthesis of immunoglobulins was low and in 66% of the tissues the synthesis of IgG was equal to or higher than that of IgA. With local modifications, the IgG synthesis was even more preponderant and was very important in epidermoid carcinomas which were infiltrated with numerous IgG plasmacytes. Secretory component was synthesized by almost all the tissues except the epidermoid carcinomas. The endometrium did not synthesize immunoglobulins; secretory component was synthesized only by endometrial tissue in the secretory phase and by 2 of the 4 carcinomas studied. It seems that in the cervix and the endometrium there is no relationship between the production of secretory component and the presence of IgA plasmacytes which probably localise as a result of other influences. The conditions in which the local secretory immunological system would react preferentially remain to be determined.
Naturally processed and HLA-B8-presented HPV16 E7 epitope recognized by T cells from patients with cervical cancer.	Several major histocompatibility complex (MHC) alleles have been reported to present peptides derived from the HPV16 E7 oncoprotein to T cells. We describe an overrepresentation of the HLA-B8 allele (28.44%) in cervical cancer patients as compared to the MHC class I allele frequency in a local healthy control population (18.80%) and the identification of an HLA-B8-binding peptide TLHEYMLDL (HPV16 E7(7-15)), which is able to drive HPV16 E7-specific and MHC class I-restricted T-cell responses in peripheral blood lymphocytes from healthy individuals. TLHEYMLDL-specific T cells recognize the naturally processed and presented peptide on HPV16+ cervical cancer cells transfected with the HLA-B8 gene defined by IFN-gamma production. This peptide epitope is also recognized by freshly harvested tumor-infiltrating T cells or T cells from tumor-draining lymph nodes from patients with cervical cancer determined by flow cytometry as well as by tetramer in situ staining. HLA-B8-restricted HPV E7(7-15)-specific T cells reside predominantly in the CD8+ CD45RA+ CCR7+ precursor or in the differentiated CD8+ CD45RA+ CCR7- T-cell population.
Activation of CD40 in cervical carcinoma cells facilitates CTL responses and augments chemotherapy-induced apoptosis.	In this study, we describe the expression and function of CD40, a TNF receptor family member, in cervical carcinomas. CD40 was present at very low levels in normal cervical epithelium but was overexpressed in human papillomavirus-infected lesions and advanced squamous carcinomas of the cervix. The stimulation of CD40-positive cervical carcinoma cell lines with soluble CD40L (CD154) resulted in activation of the NF-kappaB and MAPK signaling pathways and up-regulation of cell surface markers and intracellular molecules associated with Ag processing and presentation. Concomitantly, the CD154-induced activation of CD40 in carcinoma cells was found to directly influence susceptibility to CTL-mediated killing. Thus, CD40 stimulation in cervical carcinoma cell lines expressing a TAP-dependent human papillomavirus 16 E6 Ag epitope resulted in their enhanced killing by specific CTLs. However, CD154 treatment of carcinoma cells expressing proteasome-dependent but TAP-independent Ags from the EBV-encoded BRLF1 and BMLF1 failed to increase tumor cell lysis by specific CTLs. Moreover, we demonstrate that chemotherapeutic agents that suppress protein synthesis and reverse the CD40-mediated dissociation of the translational repressor eukaryotic initiation factor 4E-binding protein from the initiation factor eukaryotic initiation factor 4E, such as 5-fluorouracil, etoposide, and quercetin, dramatically increase the susceptibility of cervical carcinoma cells to CD40L-induced apoptosis. Taken together, these observations demonstrate the functional expression of CD40 in epithelial tumors of the cervix and support the clinical exploitation of the CD40 pathway for the treatment of cervical cancer through its multiple effects on tumor cell growth, apoptosis, and immune recognition.
Preservation and redirection of HPV16E7-specific T cell receptors for immunotherapy of cervical cancer.	Human papilloma virus (HPV) type 16 infections of the genital tract are associated with the development of cervical cancer (CxCa) in women. HPV16-derived oncoproteins E6 and E7 are expressed constitutively in these lesions and might therefore be attractive candidates for T-cell-mediated adoptive immunotherapy. However, the low precursor frequency of HPV16E7-specific T cells in patients and healthy donors hampers routine isolation of these cells for adoptive transfer. To overcome this problem, we have isolated T cell receptor (TCR) genes from four different HPV16E7-specific healthy donor and patient-derived human cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) clones. We examined whether genetic engineering of peripheral blood-derived CD8+ T cells in order to express HPV16E711-20-specific TCRs is feasible for adoptive transfer purposes. Reporter cells (Jurkat/MA) carrying a transgenic TCR were shown to bind relevant but not irrelevant tetramers. Moreover, these TCR-transgenic Jurkat/MA cells showed reactivity towards relevant target cells, indicating proper functional activity of the TCRs isolated from already available T cell clones. We next introduced an HPV16E711-20-specific TCR into blood-derived, CD8+ recipient T cells. Transgenic CTL clones stained positive for tetramers presenting the relevant HPV16E711-20 epitope and biological activity of the TCR in transduced CTL was confirmed by lytic activity and by interferon (IFN)-gamma secretion upon antigen-specific stimulation. Importantly, we show recognition of the endogenously processed and HLA-A2 presented HPV16E711-20 CTL epitope by A9-TCR-transgenic T cells. Collectively, our data indicate that HPV16E7 TCR gene transfer is feasible as an alternative strategy to generate human HPV16E7-specific T cells for the treatment of patients suffering from cervical cancer and other HPV16-induced malignancies.
Immune responses to human papillomavirus in genital tract of women with cervical cancer.	To address a question whether immune responses to HPV infection play a role in control of cervical cancer, we analyzed systemic and mucosal immune responses to HPV in women who underwent radical hysterectomy for cervical cancer (HCC) or loop conization due to cervical dysplasia (LOOP), or had hysterectomy for other reasons (HNN).
Plasmacytoid dendritic cells are present in cervical carcinoma and become activated by human papillomavirus type 16 virus-like particles.	Plasmacytoid dendritic cells (PDC) play an important role in the innate immune response to viral infections through the secretion of high levels of IFNalpha. We investigated whether PDC play a role in Human Papillomavirus (HPV) associated cervical carcinoma.
CD4+ T cell-mediated antigen-specific immunotherapy in a mouse model of cervical cancer.	A major agenda for tumor immunology is the generation of specific immune responses leading to the destruction of incipient and frank neoplasia. In this report, we show that a novel HPV16 E7 fusion protein can produce objective therapeutic responses against incipient cervical cancer in genetically engineered mice that express in the cervix the HPV16 early region genes implicated as causative agents in human cervical cancer. Although nonresponsive toward the HPV16 E7 oncoprotein in the CD8+ T-cell compartment by virtue of MHC haplotype, the mice were capable of mounting an induced CD4+ T-cell response against E7, and in addition developed spontaneous anti-E7 antibodies. HPV16/CD4-/- mice showed increased tumor burden indicative of CD4-mediated immune surveillance. Seeking to enhance the CD4 response, we immunized mice bearing incipient cervical cancer with a recombinant protein fusing E7 with a mycobacterial heat shock protein. The incidences of cervical carcinoma and of high-grade dysplasia (CIN 3) were consequently reduced by comparison to control mice. Thus, an HPV16 E7 immunogen holds promise for noninvasive treatment and prevention of human cervical cancer.
Immunoperoxidase staining of cervicovaginal smears after radiotherapy.	Cervicovaginal smears from 2 women with postirradiation dysplasia, 4 women with postirradiation squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix, 30 women with irradiation atypia and 5 healthy, nonirradiated women were stained immunohistochemically with six keratin antibodies. For four of the antibodies--CK19 (BA17), EMA, PKK-1 and CAM 5.2--squamous cells showing irradiation atypia, postirradiation dysplasia or postirradiation squamous cell carcinoma were more likely to stain positively than were nonirradiated squamous cells. For three of the antibodies in which multiple squamous cells stained positively, the proportion of squamous cells showing postirradiation dysplasia or postirradiation squamous cell carcinoma staining strongly was equal to or greater than the corresponding overall proportion for squamous cells showing irradiation atypia. This was statistically significant with only one antibody, PKK-1. No statistically significant differences were seen in staining of irradiated and nonirradiated squamous cells by MAK-6 and AE1:AE3. The data show that some keratin antigens are more often expressed in the irradiated groups and that there may be differences in the degree of antigen expression between squamous cells showing postirradiation dysplasia or postirradiation squamous cell carcinoma and squamous cells showing irradiation atypia.
Carcinoma of the cervix uteri: an assessment of the relationship of tumour proliferation to prognosis.	The aim of this study was to ascertain whether assessing the growth fraction of cervical carcinoma of 28 patients, using antibody Ki-67, would be of value in clinical practice. The results showed no relationship between growth fraction and age, clinical stage, lymph node involvement or short term (3-5 years) survival.
Immunohistological study on HLA class II antigen expression and lymphocyte infiltration in cancer tissues of the uterine cervix]	The correlation between the presence and absence of HLA Class II antigen and stromal lymphocyte infiltration in cervical cancer tissue was analyzed immunohistologically. The correlation was also studied in relation to the prognosis of patients with cervical carcinoma. Immunohistological staining was performed with a monoclonal antibody differentiating monomorphic determinants of HLA-DR and an antibody (HU-30) differentiating HLA-DR1/2, one of the polymorphic determinants, in 36 patients with cervical carcinoma. Infiltrating lymphocytes were identified immunohistologically with various monoclonal antibodies, and the following results were obtained: 1) Twenty-six (72.2%) of the 36 patients were evaluated as positive for HLA-DR1/2 from the reaction with HU-30. 2) Cancer cells from 21 (80.8%) of the 26 patients were HLA-DR positive, while those from 5 (19.2%) were HLA-DR negative. 3) Cancer cells from 12 (46.2%: group A) of the 21 patients were also positive for HLA-DR1/2, while those from 9 (34.6%) were negative for the determinant. 4) There was no patient whose stromal lymphocytes were negative for HLA-DR1/2 and whose cancer cells alone were positive for the determinant. Thus, there was a total of 14 patients (53.8%: group B) whose cancer cells were negative for HLA-DR. 5) The lymphocytes that infiltrated the area surrounding the cancer lesion were mainly T cells, with Leu-3a cells (helper/inducer T cell) more abundant than Leu-2a cells (suppressor/cytotoxic T cell). 6) Infiltration of T cells, the subgroup and IL-2-receptor-positive cells was greater in group A than in group B.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
More men than women make mucosal IgA antibodies to Human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) and HPV-18: a study of oral HPV and oral HPV antibodies in a normal healthy population.	We have previously shown the high prevalence of oral anti-human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16) antibodies in women with HPV-associated cervical neoplasia. It was postulated that the HPV antibodies were initiated after HPV antigenic stimulation at the cervix via the common mucosal immune system. The present study aimed to further evaluate the effectiveness of oral fluid testing for detecting the mucosal humoral response to HPV infection and to advance our limited understanding of the immune response to HPV.
Hybrid cells formed by fusion of Epstein-Barr virus-associated B-lymphoblastoid cells and either marrow-derived or solid tumour-derived cell lines display different co-stimulatory phenotypes and abilities to activate allogeneic T-cell responses in vitro.	A panel of stable cell hybrids was generated by fusing a range of marrow-derived and solid tumour-derived human cell lines with the B-lymphoblastoid cell lines, HMy2 or KR4, and expression of immunologically relevant accessory and co-stimulatory molecules, and ability to stimulate allogeneic T-cell responses in vitro was investigated. Hybrid cell lines generated from three marrow-derived tumour cells consistently expressed both MHC class I and class II molecules, a range of accessory and T-cell co-stimulatory ligand molecules, including CD80 and CD86, and directly stimulated markedly enhanced T-cell proliferative responses in vitro, as compared with the parent tumour cell lines. The responses were blocked by addition of CTLA4-Ig fusion protein to the cultures, indicating a role of CD28/B7 interaction in induction of T-cell activation. By contrast, hybrid cells derived from three solid tumours only expressed MHC class II when the parent tumour cell line expressed MHC class II and consistently failed to express CD80 or CD86. These hybrid cells also stimulated greater T-cell proliferative responses in vitro than the parent tumour cell lines, although effective co-stimulation depended on the presence of responder non-T cells in the cultures. The expression of co-stimulatory ligand molecules and ability to directly stimulate strong allogeneic T-cell responses correlated with the EBV latency type of the hybrid cells. These data suggest that phenotypic and functional differences in fusion cells of professional antigen- presenting cells and tumour cells arise as a result of the parent tumour cell type.
New paradigm for prevention of cervical cancer.	Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection is an event responsible for the development of cervical cancer and its premalignant dysplasia. Prophylactic vaccines based on virus-like particles (VLPs) have been successfully tested in clinical trials. They are safe, close to 100% effective in preventing persistent infection and premalignant disease, and are now being introduced onto the market. Vaccination should be offered primarily to young girls and adolescents 9-15 years of age. Vaccine introduction faces particular problems due to a bias towards sexually transmitted diseases and financing, especially in developing countries. However, it represents the first vaccine that has the potential to eradicate 70% of cervical cancer world wide.
Characterization of human antibody-reactive epitopes encoded by human papillomavirus types 16 and 18.	We have previously reported that the most common human serum immunoglobulin G antibody reactivities to human papillomavirus type 16 and type 18 (HPV16 and HPV18)-encoded proteins are directed against the minor capsid proteins (HPV16 L2 and HPV18 L2) and to the E7 protein of HPV16 (S. A. Jenison, X.-P. Yu, J. M. Valentine, L. A. Koutsky, A. E. Christiansen, A. M. Beckmann, and D. A. Galloway, J. Infect. Dis. 162:60-69, 1990). In this study, the antibody-reactive segments of the HPV16 E7, HPV16 L2, and HPV18 L2 polypeptides were mapped by using nested sets of deleted recombinant proteins. A single major immunoreactive region was identified in the HPV16 E7 polypeptide between amino acids (aa) 21 and 34 (DLYCYE-QLNDSSEE). In contrast, three distinct immunoreactive regions of the HPV16 L2 polypeptide were present in the segment between aa149 and aa204, and three distinct immunoreactive regions of the HPV18 L2 polypeptide were present in the segment between aa110 and aa211. With the exception of one serum sample, serum immunoglobulin G antibodies which reacted with HPV16 L2 polypeptides or with HPV18 L2 polypeptides were not cross-reactive.
Identification of an HLA-A24-restricted cytotoxic T lymphocyte epitope from human papillomavirus type-16 E6: the combined effects of bortezomib and interferon-gamma on the presentation of a cryptic epitope.	About 50% of cervical cancers are associated with human papillomavirus type 16 (HPV-16), and since the HPV-16 E6 and E7 oncoproteins are constitutively expressed in the tumor cells, they are attractive targets for cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL)-mediated immunotherapy. Nevertheless, only a limited number of HPV-16 E6 epitopes have been identified to date. Using reverse immunological methods, we have generated a CTL clone against the HPV-16 E6(49-57) epitope restricted by HLA-A*2402, which is the most common allele in Japan and relatively frequent worldwide, capable of lysing 293T cells transduced with HLA-A*2402 and HPV-16 E6. Although it was unable to recognize the SiHa cervical cancer cell line positive for HPV-16 and HLA-A*2402, the cells became susceptible to lysis when transduced with E6-E7 genes, which was unexpectedly offset by pretreatment with interferon (IFN)-gamma alone. Interestingly, however, combined pretreatment with a proteasome inhibitor, bortezomib and IFN-gamma fully restored CTL-mediated lysis of the original SiHa cells. Furthermore, such intervention of 2 of 4 other cervical cancer cell lines expressing HPV-16 E6 and HLA-A*2402 was found to induce IFN-gamma production by specific CTLs. Tetramer analysis further revealed that induction of E6(49-57)-specific T cells was possible in 5 of 7 patients with HPV-16-positive high grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia or cervical cancer by in vitro stimulation with E6(49-57) peptide. Thus, these findings together indicate that E6(49-57) is a candidate epitope for immunotherapy and immunological monitoring of such patients.
Vaccination with an adenoviral vector expressing calreticulin-human papillomavirus 16 E7 fusion protein eradicates E7 expressing established tumors in mice.	Cervical cancer remains a leading cause of cancer-related mortality in women, particularly in developing countries. The causal association between genital human papilloma virus (HPV) infection and cervical cancer has been firmly established, and the oncogenic potential of certain HPV types has been clearly demonstrated. Vaccines targeting the oncogenic proteins, E6 and E7 of HPV-16 and -18 are the focus of current vaccine development. Previous studies have shown that calreticulin (CRT) enhances the MHC class I presentation of linked peptide/protein and may serve as an effective vaccination strategy for antigen-specific cancer treatment.
An immunohistochemical study of CD1a and CD83-positive infiltrating dendritic cell density in cervical neoplasia.	Cervical carcinoma is the second leading cancer in women in Malaysia, after breast cancer. Human papillomavirus (HPV) has been implicated in the development of dysplasia or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and progression to squamous cell carcinoma. Because of the confinement of the human papillomavirus infection within the epithelial layer, the presence of dentritic cells or Langerhans cells in epithelial layer of the ectocervix is paramount in producing immune response. The mature dentritic cells express CD83 and high CD40/80/86, whereas the immature cells express CD1a and low CD40/80/86. By identifying CD1a and CD83, theoretically, both immature and mature dentritic cell populations can be studied. In view of the facts, we investigated the infiltrating cell density of mature and immature dentritic cells in cervical neoplasia.
Macrophages, inflammation and risk of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) progression--clinicopathological correlation.	To evaluate the population of macrophages during the cervical malignant transformation and its influence in CIN outcome.
Combined serial section-based 3D reconstruction of cervical carcinoma invasion using H&E/p16INK4a/CD3 alternate staining.	Malignant growth and invasiveness of cancers is a function of both intratumoral and stromal factors. The accessibility to nutrients, oxygen and growth factors, the stromal composition, and the interference with the immune system all shape the tumor invasion front. A recent study has shown a prognostic difference with respect to different invasion patterns analyzed on histological specimens of cervical cancers. The present study analyzes the spatial organization of a cervical cancer and the relation of the tumor invasion front and the infiltration with CD3(+) T-cells.
HPV vaccines: the beginning of the end for cervical cancer.	Vaccines prophylactic against infection with human papillomavirus (HPV) are based on alum adjuvanted virus-like particles. Two such vaccines have recently been shown to prevent persistent HPV infection and associated cervical cancer precursor lesions. The genotype-specific neutralising antibody directed at conformational epitopes of the L1 major capsid protein is likely to mediate protection. Vaccines therapeutic for persisting HPV infection can eliminate transplantable tumors in animal models, but are of limited efficacy in mice grafted with skin that expresses HPV antigens or in humans. This paradox has been partially resolved by data clarifying the immunoregulatory role of skin cytokines (e.g. transforming growth factor-beta and interleukin-10) and the consequences of antigen presentation by subsets of skin-associated antigen-presenting cells.
Detection of autoantibodies to survivin in cervical mucus from patients with human papillomavirus-associated cervical cancer and precursor lesions.	To investigate the prevalence of mucosal autoantibodies to survivin in patients with human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated cervical cancer and precursor lesions.
An overview of human papillomaviruses and current vaccine strategies.	Cervical cancer is one of the most common cancers in women worldwide, particularly in developing countries. The viral origin of cervical cancer has been proven beyond any reasonable doubt. Persistent infection with certain subsets of human papillomaviruses is recognized as a necessary cause for the development of cervical cancer. Persistence of oncogenic HPVs, immunodeficiency, high HPV viral load and cofactors like smoking, multiple sex partners and poor nutrition predispose to cervical cancer. Prophylactic vaccines using HPV virus-like particles containing capsid protein L1 have shown protection against disease in animals and are currently undergoing clinical trials. Therapeutic vaccines using HPV E6 and E7 proteins are also being investigated for their ability to remove residual infection.
Immune concept of human papillomaviruses and related antigens in local cancer milieu of human cervical neoplasia.	It is presently the right time for clarifying human papillomavirus (HPV)-associated cellular immunity and clinical implications before global HPV vaccination programs begin. Infection with oncogenic HPV associates with the progression of cervical neoplasia. Both cellular and humoral immune responses are essential for the clearance of HPV-associated cervical lesions. There is increasing evidence that the immune system plays a pivotal role in determining the outcome of HPV infection. Viruses and associated neoplastic cells are proposed to have evolved mechanisms to avoid immune attack. T-cell-mediated immune responses against oncogenic HPV are believed to play a central role in cervical carcinogenesis. The presence of HPV-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) in a majority of human cervical cancer patients provides an approach for further study of their functional role in modulating this malignancy. Tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) develop as manifestations of the recognition and defense against malignant cells by the host immune system. Cancer cells may overcome immune surveillance, either by downregulating the proliferation of HPV-specific CTL, or altering the effector compositions of immune cells against HPV infections. TIL in the tumor microenvironment can be functionally inhibited and lose the ability of clonal proliferation as a result of depressed expression of IL-2Ralpha. The upregulation of inhibitory signaling relates to the modulation of the virus- and/or tumor-specific immune responses. Alteration of host genetic susceptibility may also lead to abnormal immune response as a general genomic instability resulting from virus persistence. Induction of HPV-specific immune responses is anticipated as an intimate point for the treatment of cervical neoplasia.
Modeling the long-term antibody response of a human papillomavirus (HPV) virus-like particle (VLP) type 16 prophylactic vaccine.	The duration over which antibody responses persist following HPV vaccination is unknown. To estimate the longevity of responses induced by HPV-16 vaccination, two models were fitted to serum anti-HPV-16 levels measured during a 48-month study period. The first was a conventional model of antibody decay and the second was a modified model that accounts for long-lived immune memory. Using the antibody decay model, it was estimated that following administration of a three-dose regimen of HPV-16 vaccine in women aged 16-23 years, anti-HPV-16 levels will remain above those induced naturally by HPV-16 infection for 12 years, and above detectable levels for 32 years in 50% of vaccinees. With the modified model, which fitted the data better (p<0.001), it was estimated that near life-long persistence of anti-HPV-16 following vaccination is expected at titer levels above those associated with reduction of natural HPV-16 infection in 76% of these subjects, and above detectable levels in 99% of these subjects.
Serum concentration of secretory IgA during pregnancy and in gynaecological diseases affecting glands and mucosas.	Secretory IgA (S-IgA) was measured in serum samples from pregnant women by means of radial immunodiffusion according to Mancini with an antiserum against the secretory component and an S-IgA standard. The results neglect the differentiation in SC, S-IgA, and S-IgM. The study includes S-IgA serum levels during pregnancy and post partum as well as in patients with cervical carcinoma and inflammation of the genital tract. The S-IgA serum levels of pregnant women (2nd and 3rd trimester) and after delivery were increased significantly in comparison to nonpregnant women (p less than 0.01). The S-IgA levels in genital inflammation diseases and cervical carcinoma were only sometimes elevated. Pregnant women, 1st trimester: means = 40.0 mg/l (s = 12.2); pregnant women, 2nd trimester: means = 60.13 mg/l (s = 18.9); pregnant women, 3 rd trimester: means = 73.5 mg/l (s = 17.4); post partum: means = 77.5 mg/l (s = 29.52); cervical carcinoma: means = 41.9 mg/l (s = 17.3); adnexitis: means = 46.46 mg/l (s = 16.8); controls: means = 38.61 mg/l (s = 10.5). In a second part S-IgA could be estimated in serum samples of pregnant women by means of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The levels ranged from 7.1 mg/l to 19.3 mg/l in the 1st trimenon and from 16.8 mg/l to 82 mg/l in the 3rd trimenon (means = 11.72 mg/l; s = 4.419; n = 21 and means = 40.01 mg/l; s = 15.117; n = 60). This increasing was significant too (p less than 0.01).
Carcinoembryonic antigen in cancer of the female reproductive system. Serial plasma values correlated with disease state.	The results of plasma carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) determinations done over 600 patients with gynecologic malignancy will be presented. It would appear from this extensive survey that the likelihood of a patient having a positive value is increased with advancing stage and bulk of disease. The incidence of positive values in patients with clinical recurrence is quite impressive and presents a possible mode of follow-up for patients after standard treatment techniques have been administered for cervical cancer. Most interesting is the effect of radiation therapy or surgery on squamous cell cancer of the cervix and vulva in patients who have a positive value of the onset. Treatment of the disease by either modality appears to be associated with a precipitous drop in plasma value of CEA. Unfortunately, the presence or absence of CEA is not reliable and to date it is impossible to predict which patients with gynecologic malignancy will manifest a positive plasma value. Comments will be made concerning retro-de-differentiation and de-repression as a mechanism for the production of this antigen in patients with gynecologic cancer.
Combining T-cell vaccination and application of agonistic anti-GITR mAb (DTA-1) induces complete eradication of HPV oncogene expressing tumors in mice.	We generated an adenovirus-based T-cell vaccine (Ad-p14) that reliably elicits T-cell responses to human papillomavirus (HPV) oncogenes of the 2 most common high-risk HPV serotypes. The artificial gene used to create the vaccine comprising 415 aa (1248 bp) was cloned by fusing 14 polymerase chain reaction fragments of HPV16 and HPV18 E6 and E7 oncogenes devoid of sequences with transforming potential. Although ensuring maximal biologic safety, the construct includes approximately 70% of the relevant T-cell epitopes. In a tumor model for cervical cancer (C3), therapeutic vaccination led to complete eradication in 100% of the mice. In a second model (TC1), it induced initial tumor mass reduction, but 90% of the animals showed delayed tumor progression. To further improve the therapeutic effect, vaccination was combined with systemic application of imiquimod, anti-CD4, alpha-interferon, or anti-GITR. Although adding alpha-interferon improved the therapeutic potential of Ad-p14 by 40%, the combination with anti-GITR resulted in complete and permanent eradication of all TC1 tumors. Ad-p14 has clinical potential for treating HPV-induced lesions, and the added effect of immune response modifiers stresses the importance of combined protocols for immunotherapy of malignant tumors.
Immunogenicity and safety of human papillomavirus-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted cervical cancer vaccine in healthy Indian women.	India has the highest number of annual incident cases and mortality rates for cervical cancer worldwide. This study was conducted to assess the immunogenicity and safety of human papillomavirus (HPV)-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted cervical cancer vaccine in healthy Indian women aged 18-35 years old.
Human cervical epithelial cells that express HLA-DR associated with viral infection and activated mononuclear cell infiltrate.	The association between the expression of HLA-DR antigens on cervical epithelium and the local immune state of activation in colposcopically obtained biopsy specimens from patients with histologically documented wart virus infection was investigated. In normal cervical epithelium no HLA-DR staining was detected. No or few IL-2R positive cells were found in the contiguous sections. HLA-DR was expressed by epithelial cells in six out of the 14 samples of wart virus infection. The pattern of fluorescence was focal, but strong and diffuse, to the whole epithelial layer. In the six samples with HLA-DR positive epithelium the numbers of IL-2R positive cells in the lamina propria were strongly increased, ranging between 75 and 90%. HLA-DR expression by cervical epithelium was observed in only two of 12 samples from patients with mixed epithelial non-virus related abnormalities. No increase in the numbers of IL-2R positive cells was observed in this group of patients. Additionally, no significant differences in terms of T lymphocyte infiltrate were found among the three groups. The results indicate that wart virus infection is associated with enhanced HLA-DR epithelial expression and they lend support to the concept that in the human cervix the epithelium actively participates in the local immune response.
A novel fusion protein-based vaccine comprising a cell penetrating and immunostimulatory peptide linked to human papillomavirus (HPV) type 16 E7 antigen generates potent immunologic and anti-tumor responses in mice.	The ultimate success of cancer vaccination is dependent upon the generation of tumor-specific CTLs. In this study, we designed and evaluated a novel fusion protein comprising a cell penetrating and immunostimulatory peptide corresponding to residues 32-51 of the Limulus polyphemus protein (LALF(32-51)) linked to human papillomavirus (HPV) 16 E7 antigen (LALF(32-51)-E7). We demonstrated that LALF(32-51) penetrates the cell membrane and delivers E7 into cells. In a preclinical model of HPV16-induced cervical carcinoma we showed that vaccination with adjuvant-free LALF(32-51)-E7 fusion protein significantly improves the presentation of E7-derived peptides to T-cells in vitro and induces suppression of tumor growth.
The difference of the impacts of surgical approaches on cellular immunity in patients with uterine malignancies: a comparative study of laparoscopy and laparotomy surgery.	To explore the impact of laparoscopy and laparotomy surgery on cellular immunity in patients with malignant uterine tumors.
Activation of the interleukin-32 pro-inflammatory pathway in response to human papillomavirus infection and over-expression of interleukin-32 controls the expression of the human papillomavirus oncogene.	High-risk variants of human papillomavirus (HPV) induce cervical cancer by persistent infection, and are regarded as the principal aetiological factor in this malignancy. The pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-32 (IL-32) is present at substantial levels in cervical cancer tissues and in HPV-positive cervical cancer cells. In this study, we identified the mechanism by which the high-risk HPV-16 E7 oncogene induces IL-32 expression in cervical cancer cells. We used antisense transfection, over-expression, or knock-down of IL-32 to assess the effects of the HPV-16 E7 oncogene on IL-32 expression in cervical cancer cells. Cyclo-oxygenase 2 (COX-2) inhibitor treatment was conducted, and the expression levels, as well as the promoter activities, of IL-32 and COX-2 were evaluated in human HPV-positive cervical cancer cell lines. E7 antisense treatment reduced the expression levels and promoter activities of COX-2, which is constitutively expressed in HPV-infected cells. Constitutively expressed IL-32 was also inhibited by E7 antisense treatment. Moreover, IL-32 expression was blocked by the application of the selective COX-2 inhibitor, NS398, whereas COX-2 over-expression resulted in increased IL-32 levels. These results show that the high-risk variant of HPV induces IL-32 expression via E7-mediated COX-2 stimulation. However, E7 and COX-2 were down-regulated in the IL-32γ over-expressing cells and recovered by IL-32 small interfering RNA, indicating that E7 and COX-2 were feedback-inhibited by IL-32γ in cervical cancer cells.
Retinoblastoma-independent antiproliferative activity of novel intracellular antibodies against the E7 oncoprotein in HPV 16-positive cells.	"High risk" human papillomavirus strains are the causative agents of the vast majority of carcinomas of the uterine cervix. In these tumors, the physical integration of the HPV genome is a frequent, though not invariable occurrence, but the constitutive expression of the E6 and E7 viral genes is always observed, suggesting key roles for the E6 and E7 oncoproteins in the process of malignant transformation. The "intracellular antibody" technology using recombinant antibodies in single-chain format offers the possibility of targeting a protein in its intracellular environment even at the level of definite domains thus representing a valuable strategy to "knock out" the function of specific proteins.
Enantiospecific adjuvant activity of cationic lipid DOTAP in cancer vaccine.	Commercially available DOTAP is a racemic mixture of two enantiomers. The adjuvanticity of each isomer was examined using a peptide/lipid complex as a therapeutic vaccine in an established murine cervical cancer model. This simple vaccine consists of a cationic lipid (DOTAP) and a major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I-restricted epitope of the Human Papillomavirus (HPV) 16 protein E7. Dose-dependent tumor regression experiments have been completed for racemic DOTAP/E7, (R)-DOTAP/E7 and (S)-DOTAP/E7. Tumor-bearing mice treated with (R)-DOTAP/E7 complexes have shown tumor regression in a dose-dependent manner comparable to those mice treated with a racemic DOTAP with E7 peptide. These data are supported by IFN-γ production by CD8(+) splenocytes, in vivo cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTL) response, CD8(+) tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL), and IFN-γ production by CD8(+) TIL in (R)-DOTAP/E7-vaccinated mice. When (S)-DOTAP/E7 is delivered, tumor progression is delayed. While IFN-γ production is absent from CD8(+) splenocytes in mice vaccinated with (S)-DOTAP/E7, IFN-γ production by CD8(+) TIL is present, supporting our hypothesis that (S)-DOTAP has limited activity. Activation of bone marrow-derived dendritic cells by the enantiomeric formulations has also been evaluated, as well as cytokine production and toxicity with no considerable differences between the groups. The results show the DOTAP enantiomers act differently as adjuvants in vivo, with (R)-DOTAP being more effective at stimulating a CD8(+) anti-tumor response.
Regression of high-grade cervical intraepithelial neoplasia with TG4001 targeted immunotherapy.	We sought to evaluate the safety and efficacy of TG4001 in patients with human papillomavirus (HPV) 16-related cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 2/3 at 6 and 12 months.
Ubiquitination in host immune response to human papillomavirus infection.	Human papillomavirus (HPV) infection with low-risk or high-risk subtypes is very common. Infection with HPVs is often a major causative factor for the development of cutaneous benign lesions, cervical cancer, and a number of other tumors. The mechanisms of host immunity to prevent and control HPV infection still remain unclear. The importance of ubiquitination (or ubiquitylation) as an intracellular proteasomal-mediated protein degradation pathway, and as an important modulator for the regulation of many fundamental cellular processes has been valued over the last decade. Although the molecular and cellular mechanisms are not completely established, the critical role of ubiquitination in host immune response to HPV infection has become increasingly apparent. This review summarizes current knowledge on the possible role that ubiquitination plays in regulating the host immune response during HPV infection. Targeting the components of the ubiquitin system might offer potential therapeutic strategies for HPV-related diseases in the future.
T-cell response to human papillomavirus type 52 L1, E6, and E7 peptides in women with transient infection, cervical intraepithelial neoplasia, and invasive cancer.	The E6 and E7 proteins encoded by human papillomaviruses (HPV) are prime targets for therapeutic vaccine development. Ninety-five women with HPV 52 infection (33 transient infections, 17 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade II, 15 cervical intraepithelial neoplasia grade III, and 30 invasive cervical cancers) were examined for T-cell responses using interferon-γ enzyme-linked immunospot (IFN-γ ELISPOT) assay. Of the 29 peptides (13 L1, 10 E6, and 6 E7) screened positive by an in vitro peptide-binding assay, 14 were positive by the IFN-γ ELISPOT assay. Positive epitopes for HLA A11 were located at amino acid positions 103-111, 332-340, 342-350, and 373-381 of the L1 protein; and at 27-35 and 86-94 of the E6 protein; and at 1-9 and 27-35 of the E7 protein. A24-specific epitopes included 60-68 and 98-106 of the L1 protein, 42-50 and 59-67 of the E6 protein, and 24-32 of the E7 protein. Only one epitope (99-107) of the E6 protein showed positive responses for HLA A2 subjects. Overall, T-cell responses against L1 were observed mainly in subjects who had cleared infection; whereas responses against E6 and E7 were confined mainly to subjects who had developed cervical neoplasia. The proportion of subjects showing detectable T-cell responses was low across all grades of cervical neoplasia suggesting that immune evasion mechanisms had set on early in the course of disease progression. This study provides the first set of T-cell epitopes mapped for HPV 52, which can be considered for further evaluation as targets for immunotherapy.
M2 macrophages induced by prostaglandin E2 and IL-6 from cervical carcinoma are switched to activated M1 macrophages by CD4+ Th1 cells.	Monocytes attracted by tumor-induced chronic inflammation differentiate to APCs, the type of which depends on cues in the local tumor milieu. In this work, we studied the influence of human cervical cancer cells on monocyte differentiation and showed that the majority of cancer cells either hampered monocyte to dendritic cell differentiation or skewed their differentiation toward M2-like macrophages. Blocking studies revealed that M2 differentiation was caused by tumor-produced PGE(2) and IL-6. TGF-β, IL-10, VEGF, and macrophage colony-stimulating factor did not play a role. Notably, these CD14(+)CD163(+) M2 macrophages were also detected in situ. Activation of cancer cell-induced M2-like macrophages by several TLR-agonists revealed that compared with dendritic cells, these M2 macrophages displayed a tolerogenic phenotype reflected by a lower expression of costimulatory molecules, an altered balance in IL-12p70 and IL-10 production, and a poor capacity to stimulate T cell proliferation and IFN-γ production. Notably, upon cognate interaction with Th1 cells, these tumor-induced M2 macrophages could be switched to activated M1-like macrophages that expressed high levels of costimulatory molecules, produced high amounts of IL-12 and low amounts of IL-10, and acquired the lymphoid homing marker CCR7. The effects of the interaction between M2 macrophages and Th1 cells could partially be mimicked by activation of these APCs via CD40 in the presence of IFN-γ. Our data on the presence, induction, and plasticity of tumor-induced tolerogenic APCs in cervical cancer suggest that tumor-infiltrated Th1 cells can stimulate a tumor-rejecting environment by switching M2 macrophages to classical proinflammatory M1 macrophages.
HPV vaccination in Hong Kong: implications for medical education.	To explore the experience and attitudes of physicians in clinics, and to facilitate physicians' promotion of HPV vaccination.
Safety and immunogenicity of human papillomavirus-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted vaccine in healthy Chinese females aged 15 to 45 years: a phase I trial.	Globally, about 70% of cervical cancers are associated with human papillomavirus (HPV)-16 or HPV-18 infection. A meta-analysis of epidemiologic studies in China showed that HPV was present in 98% of cervical cancer samples. The HPV-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted vaccine Cervarix has shown a high level of protection against HPV-16/18 infections and associated cervical lesions. This phase I trial (NCT00549900) assessed the safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of the vaccine in Chinese. Thirty healthy Chinese females, aged 15 to 45 years with a median age of 29.5 years, received three doses of Cervarix in Months 0, 1, and 6. Safety was assessed via recording solicited local and systemic symptoms within 7 days and unsolicited symptoms within 30 days after each vaccination. Serious adverse events, new onset of chronic diseases, and other medically significant conditions were recorded throughout this trial. As an exploratory objective, HPV-16/18 antibody titers were determined by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in serum samples collected in Months 0 and 7. Pain at the injection site was the most frequently reported local symptom. Two subjects reported medically significant adverse events. Both cases were assessed as unrelated to vaccination by the investigator. In Month 7, 100% seroconversion was observed for both anti-HPV-16 and anti-HPV-18 with high geometric mean antibody titers. HPV-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted vaccine, evaluated for the first time in Chinese females, was generally well tolerated and immunogenic, as previously shown in global studies.
Eradication of large tumors expressing human papillomavirus E7 protein by therapeutic vaccination with E7 fused to the extra domain a from fibronectin.	Cervical carcinoma is one of the most common cancers in women worldwide. It is well established that chronic infection of the genital tract by various mucosatropic human papillomavirus (HPV) types causes cervical cancer. Cellular immunity to E7 protein from HPV (HPVE7) has been associated with clinical and cytologic resolution of HPV-induced lesions. Thus, we decided to test if targeting of HPVE7 to dendritic cells using a fusion protein containing the extra domain A (EDA) from fibronectin, a natural ligand for TLR4, and HPVE7 (EDA-HPVE7) might be an efficient vaccine for the treatment of cervical carcinoma. We found that EDA-HPVE7 fusion protein was efficiently captured by bone marrow derived dendritic cells in vitro and induced their maturation, with the upregulation of maturation markers and the production of IL-12. Immunization of mice with EDA-HPVE7 fusion protein induced antitumor CD8(+)  T cell responses in the absence of additional adjuvants. Repeated intratumoral administration of EDA-HPVE7 in saline was able to cure established TC-1 tumors of 5-7 mm in diameter. More importantly, intravenous injection with EDA-HPVE7 in combination with the TLR ligand polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid (pIC), or with low doses of cyclophosphamide and the TLR9 ligand CpG-B complexed in cationic lipids, were able to eradicate large established TC-1 tumors (1.2 cm in diameter). Thus, therapeutic vaccination with EDA-HPVE7 fusion protein may be effective in the treatment of human cervical carcinoma.
Cervical cancer cell lines expressing NKG2D-ligands are able to down-modulate the NKG2D receptor on NKL cells with functional implications.	Cervical cancer represents the third most commonly diagnosed cancer and the fourth leading cause of cancer-related deaths in women worldwide. Natural killer (NK) cells play an important role in the defense against viruses, intracellular bacteria and tumors. NKG2D, an activating receptor on NK cells, recognizes MHC class I chain-related molecules, such as MICA/B and members of the ULBP/RAET1 family. Tumor-derived soluble NKG2D-ligands have been shown to down-modulate the expression of NKG2D on NK cells. In addition to the down-modulation induced by soluble NKG2D-ligands, it has recently been described that persistent cell-cell contact can also down-modulate NKG2D expression. The goal of this study was to determine whether the NKG2D receptor is down-modulated by cell-cell contact with cervical cancer cells and whether this down-modulation might be associated with changes in NK cell activity.
Clinical significance of peritumoral lymphatic vessel density and lymphatic vessel invasion detected by D2-40 immunostaining in FIGO Ib1-IIa squamous cell cervical cancer.	The clinical significance of lymphangiogenesis in cervical cancer remains controversial. Our aim was to investigate the correlation between lymphangiogenesis, lymphatic vessel invasion (LVI) and tumor metastasis, invasion and prognosis in squamous cell cervical cancer. Paraffin sections of 90 patients with FIGO (Fédération Internationale de Gynécologie et d'Obstétrique) Ib1-IIa squamous cell cervical cancer were stained for immunohistochemistry with a D2-40 monoclonal antibody against the carcinoembryonic antigen M2A. The lymphatic vessel density (LVD) and LVI were measured, and their relationship with the clinicopathological data was analyzed. D2-40-positive lymphatic vessels were found in 75 of the 90 patients (83.3 %). All D2-40-positive vessels were located in peritumoral areas. The mean±SD of the peritumoral LVD was 10.08±4.16. The positive rate of LVI was 32.0 % (24/75). The recurrence rate of patients with LVD >10 (62.1 %, 18/29) was significantly higher than that of patients with LVD ≤10 (34.8 %, 16/46, P = 0.021). The 5-year recurrence-free survival rate of patients with LVD >10 (41.0 %) was significantly lower than that of patients with LVD ≤10 (67.0 %, P = 0.045). Univariate analysis showed that the peritumoral LVD (≤10 vs >10) was correlated with LVI (absent vs present, P = 0.016). The peritumoral LVD and LVI showed no correlation with age, FIGO stage, tumor size, tumor grade, depth of invasion, or pelvic lymph node metastasis (all: P > 0.05). Peritumoral lymphangiogenesis was correlated with the recurrence and recurrence-free survival in patients with squamous cell cervical cancer. Examination of peritumoral LVD in these patients might therefore help to estimate the risk of recurrence.
A discrete population of squamocolumnar junction cells implicated in the pathogenesis of cervical cancer.	Infection by carcinogenic human papillomaviruses (HPV) results in precancers [cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN)] and cancers near the ectoendocervical squamocolumnar (SC) junction of the cervix. However, the specific cells targeted by HPV have not been identified and the cellular origin of cervical cancer remains elusive. In this study, we uncovered a discrete population of SC junctional cells with unique morphology and gene-expression profile. We also demonstrated that the selected junctional biomarkers were expressed by a high percentage of high-grade CIN and cervical cancers associated with carcinogenic HPVs but rarely in ectocervical/transformation zone CINs or those associated with noncarcinogenic HPVs. That the original SC junction immunophenotype was not regenerated at new SC junctions following excision, not induced by expression of viral oncoproteins in foreskin keratinocytes, and not seen in HPV-related precursors of the vagina, vulva, and penis further support the notion that junctional cells are the source of cervical cancer. Taken together, our findings suggest that carcinogenic HPV-related CINs and cervical cancers are linked to a small, discrete cell population that localizes to the SC junction of the cervix, expresses a unique gene expression signature, and is not regenerated after excision. The findings in this study uncover a potential target for cervical cancer prevention, provide insight into the risk assessment of cervical lesions, and establish a model for elucidating the pathway to cervical cancer following carcinogenic HPV infection.
HPV-related cancer: should young men be vaccinated?]	HPV infection, a sexually transmissible disease, causes squamous cell carcinoma in a small fraction of infected individuals, years after exposure. Several cancers both in female and male, such as cervical cancer, anal carcinoma and up to 50% of oropharyngeal tumors are related to serotypes 16 and 18 of HPV. Several studies evaluating vaccination of young women before HPV exposure showed very good protection against cervical dysplasia and carcinoma in situ. Health authorities' guidelines now widely recommend vaccination of female between 11 and 14 years old. Results of recent trials also reveal good protective effect in men, raising the question of immunizing both young women and men. Important medical and socio-economic issues will need to be addressed before implementing such program.
The impact of an imperfect vaccine and pap cytology screening on the transmission of human papillomavirus and occurrence of associated cervical dysplasia and cancer.	A mathematical model for the natural history of human papillomavirus (HPV) is designed and used to assess the impact of a hypothetical anti-HPV vaccine and Pap cytology screening on the transmission dynamics of HPV in a population. Rigorous qualitative analysis of the model reveals that it undergoes the phenomenon of backward bifurcation. It is shown that the backward bifurcation is caused by the imperfect nature of the HPV vaccine or the HPV-induced and cancer-induced mortality in females. For the case when the disease-induced and cancer-induced mortality is negligible, it is shown that the disease-free equilibrium (i.e., equilibrium in the absence of HPV and associated dysplasia) is globally-asymptotically stable if the associated reproduction number is less than unity. The model has a unique endemic equilibrium when the reproduction threshold exceeds unity. The unique endemic equilibrium is globally-asymptotically stable for a special case, where the associated HPV-induced and cancer-induced mortality is negligible. Numerical simulations of the model, using a reasonable set of parameter values, support the recent recommendations by some medical agencies and organizations in the USA to offer Pap screening on a 3-year basis (rather than annually). (rather than annually). 
Comparison of the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of Cervarix and Gardasil human papillomavirus vaccines in HIV-infected adults: a randomized, double-blind clinical trial.	We compared the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of Cervarix or Gardasil human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccines in adults infected with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV).
Toll-like receptor 9 agonist enhances anti-tumor immunity and inhibits tumor-associated immunosuppressive cells numbers in a mouse cervical cancer model following recombinant lipoprotein therapy.	Although cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) play a major role in eradicating cancer cells during immunotherapy, the cancer-associated immunosuppressive microenvironment often limits the success of such therapies. Therefore, the simultaneous induction of cancer-specific CTLs and reversal of the immunosuppressive tumor microenvironment may be more effectively achieved through a single therapeutic vaccine. A recombinant lipoprotein with intrinsic Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) agonist activity containing a mutant form of E7 (E7m) and a bacterial lipid moiety (rlipo-E7m) has been demonstrated to induce robust CTL responses against small tumors. This treatment in combination with other TLR agonists is able to eliminate large tumors.
Cytotoxic T lymphocytes elicited by dendritic cell-targeted delivery of human papillomavirus type-16 E6/E7 fusion gene exert lethal effects on CaSki cells.	Human papillomavirus (HPV) is the primary etiologic agent of cervical cancer. Consideration of safety and non human leukocyte antigen restriction, protein vaccine has become the most likely form of HPV therapeutic vaccine, although none have so far been reported as effective. Since tumor cells consistently express the two proteins E6 and E7, most therapeutic vaccines target one or both of them. In this study, we fabricated DC vaccines by transducing replication-defective recombinant adenoviruses expressing E6/E7 fusion gene of HPV-16, to investigate the lethal effects of specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) against CaSki cells in vitro. Mouse immature dendritic cells (DC) were generated from bone marrow, and transfected with pAd-E6/E7 to prepare a DC vaccine and to induce specific CTL. The surface expression of CD40, CD68, MHC II and CD11c was assessed by flow cytometry (FCM), and the lethal effects of CTL against CaSki cells were determined by DAPI, FCM and CCK-8 methods. Immature mouse DC was successfully transfected by pAd-E6/E7 in vitro, and the transfecting efficiency was 40%-50%. A DC vaccine was successfully prepared and was used to induce specific CTL. Experimental results showed that the percentage of apoptosis and killing rate of CaSki cells were significantly increased by coculturing with the specific CTL (p <0.05). These results illustrated that a DC vaccine modified by HPV-16 E6/E7 gene can induce apoptosis of CaSki cells by inducing CTL, which may be used as a new strategy for biological treatment of cervical cancer. 
Value of squamous cell carcinoma antigen levels in invasive cervical carcinoma.	Squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) antigen (Ag) levels were measured by radioimmunoassay in 64 patients with invasive squamous cell cervical carcinoma and 9 patients with nonsquamous carcinoma before the initiation of treatment. The mean antigen level in the squamous group was 10.5 ng/ml compared with 1.3 ng/ml in the nonsquamous group. In the patients with squamous cell carcinoma, mean SCC Ag level correlated well with stage, except for bulky stage IB tumors (P less than 0.05), where mean level was much higher than expected. Patients with exophytic tumors had significantly higher SCC Ag levels than those with nonexophytic tumors. Follow-up on 62 evaluable patients ranged from 20 to 40 months. The mean pretreatment SCC Ag level for patients free of disease at last contact was 5.6 ng/ml, in contrast to 16.1 ng/ml for those with recurrent disease. Only 32% of patients free of disease had pretreatment levels of 4.0 ng/ml or greater, while 86% of those with recurrent disease had such values (P less than 0.05). Forty patients had follow-up samples drawn 1 to 14 months after treatment. Mean post-treatment SCC Ag levels dropped to 1.8 ng/ml in 21 patients free of disease (73% decrease), but remained elevated at 13.4 ng/ml (17% decrease) in 19 patients with recurrences. The specificity of follow-up SCC Ag levels as a predictive test for outcome was 90%, with a sensitivity of 63%. We conclude that pretreatment SCC Ag levels correlate well with tumor stage, lesion morphology, and extent of disease. SCC antigen levels may be used to follow patients to determine effectiveness of treatment.
Decreased natural killer cell activity in patients with invasive cervical carcinoma.	The cell-mediated immunity in 21,12,14 and 12 patients with preinvasive, stage I and II invasive cervical carcinoma, and in controls respectively, was studied. Lymphocyte subpopulations were enumerated using specific monoclonal antibodies (moAbs) of the Leu series (Leu2, Leu3, Leu4, Leu11b, and Leu15). Double stain using fluorescein-isothiocyanate (FITC) conjugated Leu2 moAb and phycoerythrin (PE) conjugated Leu15 moAb was applied to distinguish cytotoxic T-cells from suppressor T-cells. A 4-hour 51Cr-release assay was used to measure natural killer (NK) cell activity. The results showed that there was no significant difference in lymphocyte subpopulations among these 4 studied groups. However, the NK activity tended to be lower in patients with invasive cervical carcinoma (stage I and II) especially at a high effector/target ratio of 100. It is therefore concluded that functional cytotoxicity assay is more informative in evaluating the status of cell-mediated immunity against tumors than the enumeration of lymphocyte subsets.
Natural killer cells in cervical intraepithelial neoplasia and human papillomavirus infection.	A semiquantitative immunocytochemical study of natural killer (NK) cells in cervical mucosa was performed by the immunoperoxidase technique using anti-Leu-7 and anti-Leu-11 monoclonal antibodies. NK cells were present in two of the five normal controls and five of six specimens showing human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. Of the 12 CIN studied, six were positive for both Leu-7 and Leu-11 staining and three were positive for Leu-11 alone. NK cells were found predominantly in the subepithelial stroma. The frequency and pattern of distribution of these cells were similar in all grades of CIN. The number of NK cells present was usually small but the degree of infiltration by Leu-11 positive cells was pronounced in two HPV infections and in one CIN 1. NK cells may have a role in surveillance against HPV infection and the development and progression of CIN.
Routine papillomavirus antigen staining of cervical punch biopsy specimens.	Immunocytochemical staining for papillomavirus antigen was carried out on 1147 consecutive cervical punch biopsy specimens over 12 months. Of 876 cases with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) 351, were antigen positive and of 49 cases with histological evidence of human papillomavirus (HPV) infection but no CIN, 14 were positive. There were 204 cases reported to be normal on routine histological examination and 12 cases reported to show features suggestive but not diagnostic of HPV infection. Of the normal group, 24 (12%) were antigen positive and of the equivocal group, two were positive. In 122 of the normal or equivocal groups cytological examination was repeated at the time of colposcopy, and dyskaryosis was reported in 36. In only four cases was disease shown by HPV antigen staining when there was no diagnostic histological or cytological abnormality. HPV antigen staining assists in the recognition of the range of histological changes associated with productive HPV infection but is an insensitive test and has only limited value in supplementing histological and cytological examinations as a diagnostic aid in routine colposcopic pathology.
Immunotherapy using the streptococcal preparation OK-432 for the treatment of uterine cervical cancer. Cervical Cancer Immunotherapy Study Group.	The effectiveness of immunotherapy using a streptococcal preparation, OK-432, was evaluated for cervical cancer. The 382 eligible patients were stratified by presence/absence of surgical operation and clinical stage, and then, in each stratum, were randomly divided into two groups: an OK-432 treatment group and a control treatment group. The 3-year recurrence-free rates of 221 patients in the OK-432 group and 161 patients in the control group were 71.9% and 58.6%, respectively. The intergroup difference was statistically significant (P less than 0.05). Delayed skin reactions to phytohemagglutinin (PHA) and Su-polysaccharide extracted from Streptococcus pyogenes Su-strain (Su-PS) and peripheral lymphocyte counts were reduced within two months after the initiation of therapy in both groups. The observed immunological changes were apparently reversed by 3 months after the start of the therapy in the OK-432 group, but this took at least one year in the control group, with significant intergroup differences at 6 and 12 months of the therapy (P less than 0.01). These results indicate that OK-432 can be considered as one of the most effective and useful immunotherapeutic agents for cervical cancer.
Value of the assay of squamous cell carcinoma in cancer of the uterine cervix]	The squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) antigen was assayed by radioimmunoassay in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the uterine cervix at different stages before any treatment and in patients under treatment. Low levels of SCC antigen were detected in the early stages of the disease, showing that this antigen cannot be considered an aid to diagnosis. In the more advanced cancers, an increase of SCC antigen levels proportional to the stage of the disease was observed. However, SCC antigen assays are mainly useful in the follow-up of patients to evaluate therapeutic effectiveness.
Immunomodulating capacity of the monocyte-macrophage system in patients with uterine cervical cancer.	The authors recently measured the Interleukin-1 (IL-1) and Prostaglandin E (PGE) activity of the monocyte-macrophage system (M phi) in vitro. The results indicated that immunodeficiency in cancer patients is closely associated with reduced IL-1 activity and increased PGE activity of M phi. Immunosuppressive factors in the serum of cancer patients seem to play some role in the mechanism of such change. Therefore, when potentiating M phi in nonspecific immunotherapy, it seems important to suppress secretion of PGE (a suppressor factor of M phi origin which is secreted simultaneously) to make this therapy more effective in advanced cancer cases. Based on these results, an animal experiment was carried out in which tumor-bearing mice were treated with OK-432 and Indomethacin (Ind.) (a PG inhibitor). The results of this experiment suggested that this combination therapy reinforces the M phi-mediated immunopotentiation, resulting in a stronger antitumor effect of OK-432. When we used this combination therapy in advanced cancer cases, the changes observed in immunological parameters also indicated an immunopotentiating effect, i.e., an antitumor effect. These results indicate that the optimum application of BRM therapy should be decided on the basis of an understanding of the immunological factors in the patient.
Carcinoembryonic antigen in renal allograft recipients and immunosuppressed renal patients.	Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) was estimated in plasma from 70 patients with a renal transplant, 105 patients with glomerulonephritis who had received immunosuppressive therapy, and 124 healthy controls. There were raised levels in 30% of those with a renal transplant, 10% of those with glomerulonephritis and 2% of controls, and levels were higher in current smokers. CEA levels did not correlate with pre-transplant dialysis time nor with serum creatinine levels, but tended to fall with increasing time after transplantation, especially in non-smokers. CEA levels did not correlate with prednisolone dosage nor with number of rejection episodes, after allowing for time after transplantation and smoking habit. Nine of 70 patients with a renal transplant and three of 105 with glomerulonephritis had cancer, of skin in seven, cervix uteri in four, and colon in one. CEA was raised in all four transplant recipients with a visceral cancer (cervix three and colon one), but in none of the five with cutaneous cancer. Raised CEA levels occurring late after a renal allograft should prompt a careful search for visceral cancer.
Blocking plasma factors of migration inhibition factor production in patients with cervical carcinoma. A possible role in vivo.	The blocking activity was studied of plasma from patients with cervical carcinoma in a model of migration inhibition factor (MIF) production by normal human leukocytes. At the same time, the patients' in vivo (intradermal reactivity) and in vitro (MIF assay) responses were studied with two common antigens (streptokinase-streptodornase and purified protein derivative). The plasma of 15 of 27 patients with carcinoma was capable of blocking the MIF test of human normal leukocytes. Twelve of 15 patients with blocking factor in their plasma had no or only a slight in vivo response, although they had a good in vitor response. Two patients had blocking factor without any in vivo or in vitro response. Six patients who had in vitro responses and slight or no in vivo responses had no plasma blocking activity. Three patients had neither in vivo nor in vitro responses and lacked blocking activity in their plasma.
Quantification of polyethylene glycol precipitable circulating immune complex from carcinoma of cervix patients.	Changes in the level of circulating immune complexes (CIC) among Indian patients with untreated and treated squamous cell carcinoma of cervix and its correlation with the progression of the disease were studied. The quantitative determination of CIC was performed by precipitating the complex with 3% polyethylene glycol (PEG) and assaying the total protein content in the precipitate. The CIC level in serum was observed to increase gradually with the progression of the disease in CaCx and in stage III of the disease the CIC content was found to be more than double of the level obtained in normal healthy individual. The augmented CIC level in patients was found to reduce to normal levels after an interval of 104 weeks of surgery and 16 weeks of radiotherapy.
Differences in clinical significance of blood group antigens A, B, and H in carcinoma tissue in the uterine cervix.	The losses of blood group antigens A, B, and H in carcinoma tissue of the uterine cervix were studied by the avidin-biotin-peroxidase complex (ABC) method and the relations of these losses to invasion and dedifferentiation of primary cancer were examined. The incidence of cases showing complete loss of A or B antigen increased in proportion to the progression of cancer, but in most cases even of invasive cancer, H antigen, the precursor of A and B antigens, was detected. Complete loss of H antigen was not demonstrated in well-differentiated keratinizing invasive carcinomas, but was seen in 15% (15/101) of the cases of large cell non-keratinizing type cancer and 50% (8/16) of those of small cell non-keratinizing type cancer. No relationship was found between losses of A, B, and H antigens and parametrial spread of carcinoma or metastasis to the pelvic lymph nodes, but the incidence of death within 2 years after hysterectomy was higher in H antigen-negative cases than in H antigen-positive cases. These results indicate that loss of A and B antigens depends on some activity of invasion of cancer, while loss of H antigen strongly indicates dedifferentiation of cancer cells and also may indicate a poor prognosis.
Cytochemical and immunologic of women treated for squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.	A total of 126 individuals were tested for circulating T lymphocyte levels: 10 patients with stage I-III squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix before treatment; 65 women previously treated with radiation for stage I and II squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix; and 51 healthy age-matched controls. Percentages of aneuploid cells and DNA content in vaginal or cervical smears were determined in 94 patients. All patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix had lower ratios and levels of circulating T lymphocytes than healthy controls. Cytologic and cytochemical DNA studies of vaginal and cervical smears revealed that these individuals had high percentages of aneuploid cells in cervical smears as well as high DNA values. Patients with no evidence of dysplasia had increased circulating T lymphocyte levels compared to pretreatment values, a lower number of aneuploid cells, and mean DNA values close to diploid cells. Based on cytologic and quantitative DNA studies of vaginal and cervical smears, postirradiation dysplasia was diagnosed in 17 of 65 women previously treated by radiation for squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix. No difference in the levels of circulating T lymphocytes between women with postirradiation dysplasia and women without this mucosal disorder and no evidence of cancer was found.
Cell-mediated cytotoxicity in vitro of human lymphocytes against a cervical cancer cell line.	Peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with uterine cervical cancer were tested against a cervical cancer cell line by micro-cytotoxicity assay. In stage O, high degree of cytotoxicity was observed but it decreased with progression of disease. In stage IV and recurrent cases, cytotoxic activity was negligible. Lymphocytes from healthy controls and myoma patients were not cytotoxic against target cells. On the other hand, lymphocyte response of phytohemagglutinin as a nonspecific T-cell activity was as high as the of healthy control in stage O, but the response decreased in stages I to IV and recurrent cases. In stages I to III, several cases showed cytotoxic activity but decreased response to phytohemagglutinin.
Deficient natural killer cell activity in a patient with Fanconi's anaemia and squamous cell carcinoma. Association with defect in interferon release.	A child with Fanconi's anaemia diagnosed at 7 years of age presented in adult life with lymphopenia, recurrent warts and Bowen's disease. The latter resulted in the development of multiple cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas which metastasized to the skeleton. Investigation of her immune function revealed selective defects in natural killer (NK) cell activity. Humoral immunity and several tests of cell-mediated responses were within normal or became normal after treatment with levamisole or transfer factor. Analysis of the defect in NK activity revealed that low levels could be induced in vitro by fibroblast interferon. Stimulation of blood lymphocytes from the patient with the interferon inducer poly (I)-poly (C) resulted in an increase in NK activity but incubation of her lymphocytes on tumour cells did not result in an increase in NK activity or the release of interferon. This contrasted with the marked increase in NK activity and interferon release observed when lymphocytes from normal controls were incubated on tumor cells. These findings suggested the absence of NK activity in this patient was secondary to a defect in interferon release from lymphocytes on exposure to tumour antigens. It is considered that these defects may have been an important predisposing factor in the development of malignancy in this patient and possibly other patients with Fanconi's anaemia.
Carcinoembryonic antigen in carcinoma of the uterine cervix. Correlations with clinical stage, histopathology, and survival about 115 cases (author's transl)]	Carcinoembryonic antigen is elevated in the serum of approximately 35% (35/98) of patients with carcinoma of the uterine cervix. The incidence of elevated serum CEA is not related to stage of disease, histopathology, lymphangiogram and survival rate. Carcinoembryonic antigen levels return to normal after curative radiation therapy (25/32). Persistently high values after irradiation are indicative of residual disease (3/32). Reappearance of CEA, with a progressive rise evoke a recurrence, and may precede the clinical diagnosis.
HSV 2-associated antigens in human cervical tissues before and after grafting in nude mice.	Biopsy material from human invasive cervical carcinoma, carcinoma in situ (CIS) and normal uterine cervix was transplanted into nude mice, some of which were then injected with estrogen or progesterone during a follow-up of 1-4 weeks. The cervical cells were analysed prior to and after passage in nude mice by the anticomplement immunofluorescence (ACIF) assay for the presence of herpes virus associated antigens. Such antigens were found in a few cells in three out of seven transplanted cervical cancers prior to the grafting and in one out of 3 cases with normal tissue. After the grafting period HSV-related antigen was found in 6 out of 7 cases of cervical cancer in grafting material from estrogen-stimulated mice. Without hormonal stimulation, 5 out of 7 showed a positive reaction. Hence the expression of the HSV-related antigen seemed enhanced after grafting in nude mice.
Antibodies to herpesvirus type 1 and type 2 among Japanese cervical cancer patients.	Antibodies to herpesvirus type 1 and type 2 were examined in 69 Japanese females with cancer of uterine cervix, which included cases of cervical dysplasia (7 cases), carcinoma in situ (9 cases), and invasive carcinoma (53 cases), and 112 matched controls. The presence of antibodies to type 2 virus was 42% in cervical dysplasia, 11% in carcinoma in situ, and 28% in invasive carcinoma, while such was 15% in matched controls. Mean antibody titer in log10 was 2.12 to type 1 and 1.65 to type 2 in women with invasive carcinoma, and 2.14 to type 1 and 1.67 to type 2 in the matched controls. The findings presented here did not support an association of type 2 virus infection with the occurrence of cervical cancer.
Carcinoembryonic antigen levels in patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.	A modified CEA-Roche kit was used to determine the pretreatment value of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in patients with intraepithelial neoplasia and invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix. A positive correlation between tumor volume and CEA levels was found in patients with invasive disease, and patients with intraepithelial neoplasia also had elevated levels compared with a reference material of blood donors. Pre- and posttreatment levels were measured in 156 patients with invasive lesions, and a significant response to treatment was seen in 80%. The resutls of this study indicate that any pretreatment level can be of interest in the followup of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the cervix.
Tissue isoantigens A, B, and H in carcinoma of the cervix uteri: their clinical significance.	A specific red cell adhesion test was done in 243 patients with carcinoma of the cervix uteri and showed the presence of isoantigens in only 27.16% of the patients with infiltrating squamous cell carcinoma. There was a gradual loss of isoantigens during the development of carcinoma. The test can be usefully employed in studying the evolution of the disease. The negativity of the test was found to increase as clinical severity of the disease increases. Also, the highest percentage (57.57%) of retained isoantigen was found in large-cell nonkeratinizing carcinoma, a well-differentiated type for the cervix. Follow-up studies suggest that the loss of antigen indicates probably metastasis and a poor prognosis.
Variations of plasma CEA levels in gynecologic malignancies: incidence, significance and changes occurring in response to therapy.	Serial carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) radioimmunoassay were performed on 84 patients with primary gynecologic malignancies using the double antibody method. A positive correlation between the marker levels and tumor stage was found in the subjects with invasive disease: the incidence of positive values is appreciably higher in the advanced stages of malignancies. The surgical resection normalized the pretreatment elevated levels: fluctuating CEA values were observed during chemio or radiotherapy. The findings of this investigation support the theory of the limited usefulness of the CEA levels as a diagnostic test in patients with gynecologic cancer. The determination would appear to be helpful only in case with an elevated plasma values at the time of diagnosis. The CEA test seems to indicate that serial plasma assays can be of large interest in the follow-up of this women and for the second-look surgery, chemio and radiant therapy.
The value of the lymphocyte transformation index induced by mitogens in cervical carcinoma]	Dynamics of immune reactivity in patients with the carcinoma of the cervix was determined. The transformation of their lymphocytes was induced in vitro by phytohemagglutinin (PHA), and the transformation index--a correlate of immunological reactivity--was determined at the following intervals: just before the start of the therapeutic procedure, at the end of the procedure, and every three months afterwards. Very low values of the transformation index, i. e. pronounced immunosuppression, characterized the initial period in all the patients, regardless of either the degree of the disease or the age of the patients. The suppression was prominent during 6 to 18 months following the therapeutic procedures and was overcome earlier in young patients bearing smaller tumors. The results indicate that in tumor-bearing patients a pronounced suppression of immune reactivity occurs after the PHA administration and that it could persist several months after the therapy.
The association of an HPV16 oncogene variant with HLA-B7 has implications for vaccine design in cervical cancer.	HLA-restricted cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) recognition of human papillomavirus (HPV) oncogene products may be important in the control of the HPV infections associated with the development of cervical cancer. We have identified, in HLA-B7 individuals, a consistent variation in the HPV16 E6 oncoprotein sequence, which alters an HLA-B7 peptide binding epitope in a way likely to influence immune recognition by CTLs. These results illustrate a biologically relevant mechanism for escape from immune surveillance of HPV16 in HLA-B7 individuals. Thus, both HLA type and HPV16 strain variation need to be considered in the screening of at-risk individuals and for the rational design of anti-HPV vaccines.
Identification of beta-oncofetal antigen in cervical squamous cancer and its demonstration in neoplastic and normal tissues.	An extract of a human cervical squamous carcinoma was used to produce rabbit antiserum with immunoreactivity against an antigen in several types of normal and neoplastic tissues. This antigen was abundant in cervical cancer as well as in normal adult and fetal kidney and liver. The antigen had a beta mobility in immunoelectrophoresis and a molecular weight range of 74, 000 to 90,000 as determined by gel chromatography. Since some of its properties were similar to those of the beta-oncofetal antigen described by Fritsche and Mach, a comparison was undertaken that indeed revealed identical immunoreactivity of the anti-beta-oncofetal antigen and anti-cervical cancer antisera when reacted in immunodiffusion against a cervical cancer extract. These results do not support the designation of this antigen as an oncofetal antigen.
HLA DR-DQ associations with cervical carcinoma show papillomavirus-type specificity.	Cervical carcinoma is now known to be associated with human papillomaviruses (HPV), but the evidence for a link with specific HLA loci is controversial. The role of genetic variation at the HLA class II loci and among HPV types in cervical carcinoma was investigated by PCR DNA amplification and oligonucleotide probe typing of paraffin-embedded invasive cervical cancer tissue from Hispanic patients and of cervical swabs from Hispanic controls. Certain HLA class II haplotypes (such as DRB1*1501-DQB1*0602) were associated significantly, while DR13 haplotypes were negatively associated with cervical carcinoma. These associations are HPV16-type specific. These results suggest that specific HLA class II haplotypes may influence the immune response to specific HPV-encoded epitopes and affect the risk of cervical neoplasia.
Circulating immune profile in patients with pre-cancer and cancer of the cervix: a cross sectional study among Indian women.	To fully understand immune competence in subjects with precancerous and cancerous lesions of the uterine cervix, various markers of T and B cells in peripheral blood were evaluated. The cellular measures were the absolute numbers of CD2, CD3, CD22, CD25, CD4, CD8 and CD4/CD8 T cell ratio and serologic measures were the levels of cellular products ie interleukin-2 (IL-2) and soluble interleukin-2 receptors (SIL2-R). Eighty-five subjects were analysed, and diagnosed histologically as CIN (n = 33) and invasive cancer (n = 22). Thirty women with normal Pap test results served as controls. Results on cellular markers showed a significant decrease in peripheral blood lymphocyte counts in patients with higher grades of cervical lesions as compared to controls (CIN III P < 0.05 and invasive cancer P < 0.001). Similar trends were observed for CD22 cell counts (P < 0.001). A consistent decrease was observed for CD2 positive T lymphocytes in patients with higher grade cervical lesions only. In addition, a decrease in CD4-T cells with a relative increase in CD8 and CD25 cell count was observed in these groups of patients, leading to a considerable reduction in CD4/CD8 T-cell ratio. Results obtained on soluble cellular products revealed that serum levels of IL-2 and SIL2-R in patient groups were significantly higher than controls (P < 0.001). Preliminary findings indicated a host-vested cellular impairment, evidenced by immune deficit and immune-stimulation, in women with pre-cancer and cancerous lesions of the cervix.
HLA expression in pre-invasive cervical neoplasia in relation to human papilloma virus infection.	A significant proportion of cervical carcinomas show loss of major histocompatibility complex human leucocyte antigen (HLA) class I expression while upregulating HLA class II expression. These changes may have direct consequences for immune surveillance of the human papilloma virus (HPV) infection which is strongly associated with cervical malignancy. A relationship between changes in HLA expression and HPV infection may be evident in the evolution of premalignant disease. This immunohistological study of 104 colposcopic biopsies establishes that HLA class II expression occurs in a significant proportion of squamous epithelia showing histological evidence of wart virus infection and cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) I to III. In comparison, alteration of HLA class I expression in cervical premalignant lesions is rare. There is no correlation between the detection of high risk HPV DNA (types 16, 18, 31 and 33) by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and the MHC class II phenotype of the lesion. This suggests that altered HLA class II expression is neither a consequence nor a prerequisite for HPV infection.
Tumor antigen and human chorionic gonadotropin in CaSki cells: a new epidermoid cervical cancer cell line.	Epidermoid cervical carcinoma cells (CaSki line) have been established in continuous culture. When leukocytes from cervical cancer patients were incubated with CaSki culture fluid concentrates, inhibition of leukocyte migration was observed in more than 70 percent of the patients tested. By contrast, significantly less inhibition was observed with normal donor leukocytes or leukocytes from patients with other types of cancer. These results were consistent with the expression of tumor-associated antigen by CaSki cells. Analysis of the serum from the donor of the cell line at the time of tumor biopsy, and of CaSki culture fluids, demonstrated the presence of the beta subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin.
T-cell proliferative response to human papillomavirus type 16 peptides: relationship to cervical intraepithelial neoplasia.	The incidence of human papillomavirus (HPV)-related cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) and cervical cancer is increased with immunodeficiency, but the role of immune response, including cell-mediated immunity, in disease prevention is not well understood. In this study, T-cell proliferative responses to six synthetic peptides with predicted immunogenic determinants from the HPV-16 E4, E6, E7, and L1 open reading frames were analyzed in 22 sexually active women with new-onset CIN and 65 sexually active women without cervical disease, characterized by cytology, colposcopy, and HPV testing. T-cell proliferative responses were demonstrated to all six HPV-16 peptides. Although not statistically significant, rates of reactivity to E6 (24-45) were higher among sexually active women without disease (26%) than among women with current CIN (7%), as was the overall number of peptides stimulating a response. Women with CIN may not respond to selected HPV antigens as well as women without disease do.
Prevalence of serum antibodies to synthetic peptides to HPV16 epitopes among Indian women with cervical neoplasia.	Serum samples from 38 Indian women with cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) and cancer along with 20 control women were analysed for IgG antibodies against a panel of four synthetic peptides derived from early and late gene open reading frames of HPV16. The cervical tissue samples from these patients were also subjected to PCR in order to detect the presence of human papilloma viruses (HPVs) type 6, 11 and 16 DNA, using a set of primers for the E6 open reading frames in order to establish the acquisition of HPV infection. E2, E6 and L1 peptides of HPV16 were found to be highly reactive with the patients' sera, and a significant prevalence of antibodies to E6, E2 and L1 (P < 0.01) was observed among women with CIN, while antibodies to E6 peptide were only significantly elevated (P < 0.01) among women with cervical invasive carcinoma. Furthermore, there was good agreement between the development of the E6 antibody response and the presence of HPV16 E6 DNA among women with CIN and cervical invasive carcinoma as shown by high values of the kappa coefficient (0.7-1.0). The study clearly revealed a strong agreement between two assay methods defining unambiguous immunogenic B-cell epitopes on synthetic peptides to early and late gene open reading frames of HPV16 which could be used in HPV peptide serology. As such, single or combination of peptides in HPV peptide serology can be used as a screening tool to identify HPV-associated cervical lesions.
The biology of papillomavirus infections. III. Immune response]	Infection with the human papillomaviruses, especially with oncogenic HPVs increases the risk for development of precancerous and cancerous lesions of the cervix. The immune response of the host is likely to be an important factor in determining regression or progression of papillomaviruses-associated lesions. Systemic IgG and IgA response is classically associated with current or past papillomavirus infections. A deficiency in local cellular immune response is however frequently observed and linked to a decrease of cytokine synthesis by infected cells, a reduction or loss of MCH I molecules and a defect in antigen presentation to cytotoxic T lymphocytes. Although secretory immunoglobulins are generated locally in response to papillomavirus infections, humoral immunity in the female genital reproductive tract seems to be inefficient. The papillomavirus infections would lead to a decrease in cellular immunity which could be favourable to viral latency and/or precancerous and cancerous lesion development.
Stressful events, pessimism, natural killer cell cytotoxicity, and cytotoxic/suppressor T cells in HIV+ black women at risk for cervical cancer.	This study examines whether stressful negative life events and pessimism were associated with lower natural killer cell cytotoxicity (NKCC) and T cytotoxic/suppressor cell (CD8+CD3+) percentage in black women co-infected with human immunodeficiency virus Type 1 (HIV-1) and human papillomavirus (HPV), a viral initiator of cervical cancer.
