Biological activity of the suppressor cells inducer factor secreted by the Jeg-3 choriocarcinoma cell line.	We wanted to further study the mechanisms of immune suppression and suppression inducing capacities by choriocarcinoma products, e.g. both crude human choriocarcinoma supernatant (HCS) and especially an active fraction obtained by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) from the culture supernatant of the Jeg-3 human choriocarcinoma cell line, since it appeared by weight and charge criteria to be a different molecular species than the low molecular weight fraction previously isolated from mouse and human term placenta. It was important to know whether the purified material was active in vivo as it was in vitro. Therefore, we tested the effects of HCS in vivo in three systems: prevention of fetal demise in the CBA/J x DBA/2 abortion prone murine mating combination, where the effects of the HPLC purified fraction were also monitored as well as by a cell transfer system, where the suppression is revealed by a local GVH/HVG assay, and finally enhancement the survival of a mildly immunogenic tumor allograft.
Proliferating cell nuclear antigen in human placenta and trophoblastic disease.	Expression of proliferating cell nuclear antigen (PCNA), an auxiliary factor for the DNA polymerase delta, is closely related to cell proliferation. Using the monoclonal anti-PCNA antibody 19F4, we examined the distribution of PCNA in formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded sections of mature and first-trimester placentas, 8 hydatidiform moles, and 7 choriocarcinomas. In normal placentas there was strong expression of PCNA in cytotrophoblastic nuclei, while the syncytium and the amnionic epithelium were PCNA unreactive. Staining of stromal cells was variable. These results are in complete agreement with the autoradiographic localization of [3H]thymidine incorporation and demonstrate that immunoreactivity for PCNA accurately defines areas of proliferative activity in routinely processed placental tissues. In choriocarcinomas and hydatidiform moles PCNA was predominantly expressed in the cytotrophoblast and intermediate trophoblast. Again, the syncytium was largely unreactive for PCNA. These findings indicate that even after neoplastic transformation the syncytium has comparatively little proliferative activity whereas the mononuclear trophoblastic cells divide actively.
Immunoglobulins and secretory component in endometrium and cervix. Influence of inflammation and carcinoma.	The synthesis of immunoglobulins and secretory component in the cervix and the endometrium was studied by tissue culture and immunofluorescence. Out of the 75 cervical biopsies studied, 17 were epidermoid carcinomas, 8 were carcinomas in situ and 23 tissues had inflammatory or metaplastic lesions. A total of 49 samples from endometrium were studied, out of which 22 were in the proliferative phase, 17 were in the secretory phase and 4 were carcinomas. In the cervical tissues without lesions, there were very few plasmacytes, the synthesis of immunoglobulins was low and in 66% of the tissues the synthesis of IgG was equal to or higher than that of IgA. With local modifications, the IgG synthesis was even more preponderant and was very important in epidermoid carcinomas which were infiltrated with numerous IgG plasmacytes. Secretory component was synthesized by almost all the tissues except the epidermoid carcinomas. The endometrium did not synthesize immunoglobulins; secretory component was synthesized only by endometrial tissue in the secretory phase and by 2 of the 4 carcinomas studied. It seems that in the cervix and the endometrium there is no relationship between the production of secretory component and the presence of IgA plasmacytes which probably localise as a result of other influences. The conditions in which the local secretory immunological system would react preferentially remain to be determined.
Neuroectodermal immunophenotype in uterine malignant mullerian tumors (MMT): comparative immunohistochemical analysis with embryonal uterine development.	Multidirectional differentiation of neoplastic cells in uterine MMT is still a subject of controversy. The present study was designed to assess the immunophenotype of 15 uterine MMT paying special attention to the markers of neural (neuroendocrine) differentiation. In addition, the same immunohistochemical study was performed on 20 human fetal specimens in order to establish possible relationships between the immunophenotype of MMT and the expression of the corresponding antigens in the fetal tissues of the embryonal female genital tract. Besides the typical immunohistochemical patterns in three cases the epithelial component showed simultaneous coexpression of vimentin and desmin. EMA and cytokeratin, whereas epithelial markers were coexpressed with vimentin in the sarcomatous component of one adenosarcoma. Moreover, both components were immunoreactive to the markers of neural differentiation (PGP 9.5, GFAP, HNK-1, N-CAM, HBA71). This aberrant expression was not correlated with morphological signs of neural differentiation at either light microscopy or ultrastructural levels. Regarding the analysis of fetal tissues, both epithelial and mesenchymal elements in the fetal genital tract expressed the above-mentioned neural markers at different dates of gestation. The intensity of this expression diminishes as the fetus matures and at the end of antenatal life the immunophenotype characteristic for adult life is established. Taking into consideration the capacity of uterine tissue to reproduce embryonal phenotype during neoplastic transformation, we studied this abnormal immunoprofile and its hypothetic value for the diagnosis and prognosis of MMT.
Proliferative activity in normal endometrium and endometrial carcinoma measured by immunohistochemistry using Ki-67 and anti-DNA polymerase alpha antibody, and by flow cytometry.	The proliferative activity of various parts of normal and malignant endometrium was evaluated using an immunohistochemical approach and flow cytometry (FCM). The two monoclonal antibodies, Ki-67 and anti-DNA polymerase alpha antibody (anti-poly alpha antibody) were used to detect the proliferative activity of cells, and the percentage of the Ki-67 and anti-poly alpha positive cells were measured. Proliferative indices (PI; percentage of S and G2M phase) and DNA ploidy were measured by FCM. Normal endometrial specimens from 29 patients with benign diseases were used and three different parts (fundus, middle, and low part of the uterus) were examined. In the proliferative phase of normal endometrium, there was no significant difference in the proliferative activity in the three parts. In 20 patients with endometrial carcinomas with myometrial invasion, tissues were taken from the myometrial invasive site and the central part of the tumor tissue. In the cases of endometrial carcinoma, the myometrial invasive site had a higher proliferative activity than central part of the tissue. The proliferative activity measured by the immunohistochemistry was correlated with the histological grade of malignancy, but it was not consistent with PI by FCM. This suggests that the proliferative activity measured by the immunohistochemistry is independent of flow cytometric PI.
The expression of CEA, CA 19-9 and HMFG antigens in ovarian clear-cell and endometrioid carcinomas.	The tumour antigen expression of ovarian and endometrial endometrioid carcinomas, ovarian clear-cell carcinomas as well as endometrial and cervical clear-cell carcinomas were immunohistochemically compared. Of special interest were potential differences between the endometrioid and clear-cell carcinomas of the ovary. The expression of CEA and CA 19-9 tumour antigens in all these tumour types was heterogeneous, with 10-20% of the cases being positive for CEA and 40-75% being positive for CA 19-9. In contrast, HMFG IIIC 12, a monoclonal antibody originally directed against human milk fat globule (HMFG) membrane antigens, invariably detected a corresponding antigen on every case of these tumour types. Another HMFG antibody, SM IF 3, on the other hand, detected antigenic material on all clear-cell tumour types, but only rarely on endometrioid tumours of the ovary or endometrium. While HMFG IIIC 12 detects an antigen present on all ovarian, endometrial and mammary carcinomas, antibody SM IF 3 thus appears to be more restricted in its staining patterns. Our results with both of these antibodies indicate that ovarian clear-cell carcinomas and ovarian endometrioid carcinomas have antigenic differences, which provides further evidence that they belong to different tumour entities.
Carcinoembryonic antigen in cancer of the female reproductive system. Serial plasma values correlated with disease state.	The results of plasma carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) determinations done over 600 patients with gynecologic malignancy will be presented. It would appear from this extensive survey that the likelihood of a patient having a positive value is increased with advancing stage and bulk of disease. The incidence of positive values in patients with clinical recurrence is quite impressive and presents a possible mode of follow-up for patients after standard treatment techniques have been administered for cervical cancer. Most interesting is the effect of radiation therapy or surgery on squamous cell cancer of the cervix and vulva in patients who have a positive value of the onset. Treatment of the disease by either modality appears to be associated with a precipitous drop in plasma value of CEA. Unfortunately, the presence or absence of CEA is not reliable and to date it is impossible to predict which patients with gynecologic malignancy will manifest a positive plasma value. Comments will be made concerning retro-de-differentiation and de-repression as a mechanism for the production of this antigen in patients with gynecologic cancer.
Analysis of immunoregulatory activity of a choriocarcinoma-derived factor: specific suppression of proliferative process of cell-mediated immune responses including LAK cell generation.	The immunosuppressive activity of a JEG-3 choriocarcinoma-derived factor in human IL-2-dependent T cell responses has been studied, together with its effect on IL-2-independent T cell responses induced by 10 nM TPA. The factor completely suppressed the IL-2-independent proliferative responses of T cells but failed to suppress antigenic expression of activation-associated CD 25 molecules. Further studies examined the effect of the factor on LAK cell generation induced by rIL-2. Recombinant IL-2-induced LAK cell proliferation was observed on Day 4 and Day 5, but not on Day 3. As the factor suppressed the responses of LAK cell proliferation, we tested whether it blocked the generation of Day 3, Day 4 and Day 5 LAK cells. The addition of the factor failed to suppress the generation of Day 3 LAK cells, while it partially suppressed the lytic activity of Day 4 LAK cells and completely suppressed that of Day 5 LAK cells. The data suggest the presence of a heterogeneous pattern for LAK cell generation; one without proliferation, but the other requiring proliferation, to acquire killer activity. Taken together with the evidence that the factor failed to suppress NK activity, the choriocarcinoma-derived factor suppressed only the proliferative events of immunocompetent cells, but inhibited neither their activation nor the differentiation events. This immunosuppressive factor might be involved in the prevention of host-mediated rejection of choriocarcinoma cells or maternal rejection of the fetus.
Antigenic differences between the endometrium of women with and without endometriosis.	Serum and peritoneal fluid from 12 women with endometriosis, 4 women with uterine leiomyomata and 6 fertile women without endometriosis (controls) and serum from 4 women with adenomyosis were tested with a passive hemagglutination assay for antibodies against endometrium from all the controls, 8 patients with endometriosis and all patients with uterine leiomyomata and from implants from 8 patients with endometriosis. Serum antibody titers in patients with endometriosis or leiomyomata were significantly higher against endometrial or implant antigens from patients with endometriosis and 2 patients with leiomyomata than those against the controls' endometrium. Peritoneal fluid endometrial antibody titers failed to reflect these antigenic differences. Controls and patients with adenomyosis had low titers of endometrial antibodies in their serum or peritoneal fluid. Antigenic differences appear to exist between the endometrium of patients with endometriosis and that of controls.
Expression of CAR-3 and TAG-72 macromolecules in normal and transformed endometrium: potential diagnostic application in postmenopausal patients.	Mass cytoscreening for the early diagnosis of endometrial carcinoma has thus far been hampered by the low diagnostic accuracy of current cytopathology. In this study we have analyzed the reactivity of the two monoclonal antibodies, AR-3 and B72.3, recognizing two distinct glycosylated high molecular weight carcinoma associated antigens on histological specimens from normal, hyperplastic, and transformed endometrium with the aim of establishing their diagnostic potential. Because women with a high risk of endometrial cancer are frequently postmenopausal, where normal endometrium is characterized by atrophy and cystic glandular hyperplasia, the following findings were of interest. Both antibodies reacted with variable and apical staining patterns with a minority of specimens of normal cycling endometrium from premenopausal women. However, they were constantly negative when tested on normal atrophic postmenopausal endometrium, and only monoclonal antibody AR-3 occasionally stained glandular cystic hyperplasia. By contrast, lesions with atypical hyperplasia, which represent a preneoplastic condition, were stained by both antibodies in 89 or 67% of the cases depending on the monoclonal antibody used (100% if used in combination). Furthermore, 98% of the endometrial carcinomas tested were found to react with the combination of two monoclonal antibodies. If these findings are confirmed in a multicentric study, the use of the two reagents could be a valuable adjunct in the cytodiagnosis of endometrial cancer, especially in providing a guideline to selecting patients for endometrial curettage and additional diagnostic procedures.
Alveolar soft-part sarcoma of the uterine corpus: histological, immunocytochemical and ultrastructural study of a case.	A case of alveolar soft-part sarcoma located in the uterine corpus is reported. It was an incidental finding in the hysterectomy specimen of a 40-year-old woman. Light and electron microscopic examination revealed periodic-acid-Schiff-positive, diastase-resistant, membrane-bound cytoplasmic granules and crystalloids. Tumour cells expressed immunoreactivity with vimentin, desmin, cytokeratins, NK1/C3 and HMB-45 antibodies. Four years postoperatively, the patient is still alive without evidence of disease. Differential diagnoses, immunocytochemistry and clinical management of uterine alveolar soft-part sarcoma are discussed and the literature reviewed.
Uterine leiomyosarcoma diffusely express disialoganglioside GD2 and bind the therapeutic immunocytokine 14.18-IL2: implications for immunotherapy.	Uterine leiomyosarcoma comprises <1 % of uterine malignancies and is known for its clinically aggressive course. Extrapelvic recurrences are common and often lethal. No adjuvant therapies have been shown to significantly improve overall survival, highlighting the need for new and novel therapies. Our objective was to determine whether GD2-specific immunocytokine therapy may be explored for the treatment for uterine leiomyosarcoma. To do so, frozen tissue sections were obtained from the Gynecologic Oncology Group tumor bank and evaluated by immunohistochemistry (IHC) for GD2 expression using both the parent mouse monoclonal antibody 14G2A and immunocytokine 14.18-IL2 generated from the 14G2A sequence. Immunoreactivity was detected by avidin-biotin complex with DAB substrate. Specimens were reviewed by a pathologist with light microscopy and classified as negative, 1+, 2+ or 3+, compared to human melanoma cells as positive control and tissue incubated in the absence of primary antibody as negative control. GD2 was diffusely present in all evaluable samples. 10 tumors (67 %) demonstrated 3+ IHC intensity for GD2, two tumors (13 %) demonstrated 2+ intensity, and 3 (20 %) tumors demonstrated 1+ intensity. Eleven cases had sufficient tissue to assess 14.18-IL2 binding. All 11 cases bound 14.18-IL2 in a pattern identical to the parent antibody. Uterine leiomyosarcoma diffusely express GD2 and bind the therapeutic immunocytokine 14.18-IL2. This warrants further exploration to determine whether immunocytokine therapy may have a clinical role in the management of these aggressive tumors.
CA 125 in gynecologic practice.	Serum CA 125 levels were determined in 64 women with benign ovarian lesions, 92 women with uterine fundal lesions, and six patients who had negative second-look laparotomy for epithelial ovarian carcinoma. Of those with benign lesions, 13 of 31 patients with endometriosis had levels greater than 35 U/ml. Six of 34 patients with endometrial carcinoma had elevated levels before the primary operation, and six of 15 patients with recurrent endometrial carcinoma had elevated levels. The six ovarian cancer patients had had negative findings at second look 7 to 40 months before recurrence. Where close serial levels were available, the level became elevated 2 to 5 months before clinically apparent recurrent disease was noted.
Cell surface antigens of human trophoblast: definition of an apparently unique system with a monoclonal antibody.	An epitope with apparent specificity for the surface of human syncytiotrophoblast was defined by a murine monoclonal antibody, FDO46B (IgG1, kappa). The epitope was predominantly expressed during the first trimester of pregnancy. Binding was detected on frozen tissue sections and on cultured trophoblast by the immunoperoxidase technique. It was also detected on the surface of a small percentage (less than 10%) of cultured choriocarcinoma cells (JEG-3). A panel of human tissues was negative, as were normal and malignant human lymphocytes. The antigen bearing the FDO46B epitope was still expressed by trophoblast after culture in the presence of tunicamycin, indicating that it is possibly protein in nature. This antigen may have potential utility as a target for a contraceptive vaccine.
Identification of an H antigen-like blood group antigen in sera of cancer patients using a novel monoclonal antibody raised against endometrial carcinoma.	An IgM class monoclonal antibody (MAb) was derived by immunizing BALB/c mice with a human endometrial carcinoma cell line. This MAb, termed C12, exhibited strong reactivity against endometrial carcinoma, but lesser reactivity against normal endometria. The antigen recognized by MAb C12 (C12 antigen) was detected by radiometric assay in sera from patients with various carcinomas, but not in sera from patients without carcinomas or in sera from normal individuals. MAb C12 was found to agglutinate blood type O erythrocytes, but not A, B, or AB erythrocytes. To clarify the specificity of MAb C12, tissue staining experiments were performed in parallel using MAb C12, Ulex europaeus lectin I (anti-H), and a monoclonal anti-H antibody. In endometrial carcinoma tissues, both H and C12 antigens increased, but the C12 antigen showed a prominent increase, in contrast to the H antigen. Further, the C12 antigen was not found in endothelial cells of blood type O patients. In sera, the level of the H antigen varied according to the host's blood type. The sera from blood type O individuals possessed higher levels of the H antigen than those with blood type A or B. Thus, the H antigen showed no value as a tumor-associated serum marker. In contrast, the presence of the C12 antigen in sera was not determined by ABO blood group status. Thus, MAb C12 was demonstrated to be a unique MAb that reacts with an H-like antigen occurring in the sera of patients with carcinomas irrespective of ABO blood group status. MAb C12 may prove to be a useful marker for cancer patient serum.
Patterns of reactivity with the monoclonal antibodies HMFG1 and HMFG2 in normal endometrium, endometrial hyperplasia and adenocarcinoma.	Using an indirect immunoperoxidase technique the expression of the epitopes in human milk fat globule (HMFG) membranes detected by the monoclonal antibodies HMFG1 and HMFG2 was studied in the normal endometrium and in cases of cystic glandular hyperplasia, glandular hyperplasia with architectural atypia (complex hyperplasia), glandular hyperplasia with cytological atypia (atypical hyperplasia) and invasive adenocarcinoma. Luminal reactivity with HMFG1 was seen in cases of normal endometrium, cystic glandular hyperplasia and glandular hyperplasia with architectural atypia. In contrast most cases of glandular hyperplasia with cytological atypia and invasive adenocarcinoma also showed areas of cytoplasmic reactivity. Reactivity with HMFG2 was scanty.
Thomsen-Friedenreich-related antigen in human endometrium. An immunohistochemical study employing the monoclonal antibody 49H.8. A preliminary report.	The Thomsen-Friedenreich antigen (T-antigen) Gal beta 1-3Ga1NAc, is a cryptic disaccharide structure on human erythrocytes. It is masked by sialic acid and uncovered by sialidases as neuraminidase. T-antigen is a tumor-associated antigen in epithelial tissues. This study reports preliminary immunohistochemical findings on the expression of the blood group related T-antigen in human endometrium. Dewaxed sections of 10 proliferative-, 6 interval-, 14 secretory endometrium, and 16 endometrial carcinomas, either untreated or pretreated with neuraminidase, were subjected to an indirect immunoperoxidase technique using the monoclonal antibody 49H.8. The monoclonal antibody 49H.8 did not bind to normal cyclic endometrium, unless pretreated with neuraminidase. Neuraminidase treatment revealed staining of apical membranes of glandular- and surface epithelium in early or manifest secretory endometrium only. Thirteen of sixteen carcinomas stained without neuraminidase treatment, while all carcinomas stained after pretreatment with neuraminidase. Staining was more widespread than in untreated carcinomas, resembling that of secretory endometrium. Our results suggest: 1) That the sialylated 49H.8 antigen seems to be a marker of cellular differentiation in the endometrium, 2) that the antigen defined by the monoclonal antibody 49H.8 might be a tumor-associated antigen in endometrial epithelial tissue.
Production of monoclonal antibody against a newly established human endometrial cancer cell line SNG-II]	A cell line designated SNG-II was established from the operation specimen of human endometrial adenocarcinoma, and by means of an immunization procedure using intact SNG-II cells, a monoclonal antibody (Mab) named MSN-1 which reacts immunohistochemically with endometrial cancers was obtained. The cell line grew well without interruption for over 5 years, and, SNG-II cells produced tumors of cell differentiated adenocarcinoma in nude mice. The modal chromosomal number was diploid without a marker chromosome. The production of human chorionic gonadotropin and its beta-subunit, CA-125, tissue polypeptide antigen, and placental proteins such as PP6 and PP7 in SNG-II was confirmed. MSN-1 was of IgM subclass. As the antigenic reactivity was unchanged by trypsin treatment, but lost by periodic treatment, it was suggested that the antigen corresponding to MSN-1 was a carbohydrate sequence. Immunohistochemically MSN-1 reacted with about 70% cases of endometrial adenocarcinoma, but seldom with normal endometrium. Furthermore, the staining pattern of MSN-1 was different in benign cells from that in malignant cells: only the luminal surface of the normal endometrium was positive, whereas the cytoplasma was also stained in many of adenocarcinoma cells.
Clinico-pathological study of the partial hydatidiform mole]	We studied 302 spontaneous abortuses with no molar swelling of villi (S.Ab.) and 156 partial moles (P.M.), clinico-pathologically. The results were as follow: The estimated "in utero retention time" of the conceptus of S.Ab. and P.M. was 24.8 +/- 13.1 days (n = 63) and 45.9 +/- 10.7 days (n = 37), respectively (p less than 0.01). Among the cases with "in utero retention time" of 4 or more weeks, 9 of 35 S.Ab. and 32 of 37 P.M. showed no degenerative change of trophoblasts. IgG was localized on the cell membrane of the syncytiotrophoblasts in 19 of 63 S.Ab. and 27 of 37 P.M. (p less than 0.01). IgM was also localized on the cell membrane of syncytiotrophoblasts in 29 of 63 S.Ab and 6 of 37 P.M. (p less than 0.01). Six patients (3.85%, 6/156) with P.M. received operative procedure and/or chemotherapy after evacuation of the mole. Four had invasive mole, on had metastatic lesion in the lung and one had persistent trophoblastic disease. Four of these six patients with subsequent disease were 40 years of age or older. All patients with partial mole needed hCG assay monitoring because of the risk of abnormal sequelae.
Expression of blood group antigens A, B, H, Lewis-a, and Lewis-b in fetal, normal, and malignant tissues of the uterine endometrium.	Fetal, normal adult, and malignant tissues of the uterine endometrium were examined by immunoperoxidase staining for the blood group antigens (BGA) A, B, H, Lewis-a, and Lewis-b. Antigens A, B, and H compatible with the ABO status of fetuses were detected in 20 of the 22 fetal tissues that were examined. Lewis-b immunoreactivity was also found in 21 fetuses, and Lewis-a was present in a third of the cases. In adult endometrium the expression of BGA H and Lewis-b was considerably lower than in fetal tissues. Malignant endometrial glands extensively reexpressed H and Lewis-b regardless of ABO status. BGA A and B were neither absent nor accumulated in cancer tissues. Thus, H and Lewis-b can be considered as oncofetal antigens since they were frequently expressed in fetal and cancer tissues, but not in normal adult tissues. The increased expression of Lewis-a antigen might be associated with malignant transformation as it was observed only in malignant tissues. However, the functional significance of alterations in BGA expression that may be associated with oncogenesis remains to be investigated.
Cell-mediated cytotoxicity in vitro of human lymphocytes against a cervical cancer cell line.	Peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with uterine cervical cancer were tested against a cervical cancer cell line by micro-cytotoxicity assay. In stage O, high degree of cytotoxicity was observed but it decreased with progression of disease. In stage IV and recurrent cases, cytotoxic activity was negligible. Lymphocytes from healthy controls and myoma patients were not cytotoxic against target cells. On the other hand, lymphocyte response of phytohemagglutinin as a nonspecific T-cell activity was as high as the of healthy control in stage O, but the response decreased in stages I to IV and recurrent cases. In stages I to III, several cases showed cytotoxic activity but decreased response to phytohemagglutinin.
Differential expression of trophoblast-specific membrane antigens by normal and abnormal human placentae and by neoplasms of trophoblastic and non-trophoblastic origin.	Using a specific antiserum to human syncytial trophoblast plasma membrane (TrPM), we have investigated the expression of these antigens on a variety of trophoblastic and non-trophoblastic tissues by a standard peroxidase/anti-peroxidase staining method. Normal placenta (first-trimester as well as full-term), placenta from tubal pregnancy and placenta accreta were all found to express TrPM antigens. However, malignant change in trophoblast neoplasms appeared to by accompanied by a loss of these antigens, with 7 out of 10 specimens of hydatidiform mole staining positively while 3 specimens of invasive mole and 7 specimens of choriocarcinoma were all negative. In contrast, a number of malignant tumours of non-trophoblastic origin such as carcinomas of the colon, cervix, bladder and hepatomas were found to express TrPM antigens. The possible significance of the reversal to a trophoblast phenotype by malignant neoplasms of non-trophoblastic origin is discussed.
Histocompatibility antigens in pregnancy, abortions, infertility, preeclampsia, and trophoblast neoplasms.	The genetic makeup of an individual may determine the capacity of the individual to combat successfully cancer and other disease states, eg abnormal pregnancies, abortions, infertility, and preeclampsia. These factors appear to be based upon the individual's immunogenetics, as histocompatibility-restricted T-cell cytotoxicity may be deficient in the observed instances of increased histocompatibility between husband and wife found in trophoblast tumor patients and in other instances of abnormal pregnancies.
Rhesus-prophylaxis during interventions in early pregnancy]	Surgical interventions in early pregnancy are an important contribution to the Rh IgG utilization gap in Rh-negative women. Ectopic pregnancy, spontaneous and induced abortion and amniocentesis call for IgG prophylaxis. In abortions no immunization was found before the sixth week of pregnancy, thereafter the standard dose of 200 to 300 micrograms Anti-D should be applied, a reduced dose of 50 micrograms is recommended in early abortions before 12 weeks. In ectopic pregnancy prophylaxis is omitted in a high percentage. A further reduction of Rh-immunization in pregnant women can only be achieved by prophylaxis on large scale in early pregnancy.
Immunological reactivity of the body in cancer of the corpus uteri]	Under study were the factors of antitumor immunity (RHDT, the reaction of microprecipitation, the functional activity of lymphocytes, RFC and RBT) in 104 patients with cancer of the corpus uteri. It was found that most patients show an impaired immunobiological response, manifested in higher percentage of positive results with RHDT performed with the tumor antigen, and the reaction of microprecipitation with tumor and embryonal antigens, more week RFC and RBT. Immunological indices are getting worse with the process spread and are improved following the combination therapy. The process of treatment however (surgery and radiotherapy) renders a negative effect on immune indices. Normalization of the latter is noted not earlier than 1-3 years after the treatment.
Studies of anti-lymphocyte antibodies, with special reference to anti-B cell antibodies in choriocarcinoma]	For the purpose of elucidation of the immunologic properties of anti-lymphocyte antibodies which appeared in sera of choriocarcinoma patients, HLA typing of lymphocytes, complement-dependent lymphocytotoxicity test (CT) and mixed lymphocyte reaction (MLR)-blocking assay with patients' sera were performed in 7 couples with the disease. The results obtained were as follows: HLA distribution characteristic of patients and their husbands was not observed. In 3 of 7 patients, their sera exhibited positive CT to their husband's lymphocyte. In MLR-blocking assay, a significant blocking effects (BE) with sera were detected in all patients. The serum BE tended to be sustained for 4 to 8 months even after the decline of serum beta-hCG into the negative range. It was also observed that a case in whom the BE was positive for a longer period of time in a state of remission eventually underwent recurrence. It was demonstrated that the BE and MLR was induced by serum IgG antibodies closely associated with surface antigens of the husband's B-lymphocyte. Consequently, it was strongly suggested that serum anti-lymphocyte antibodies immunologically reflect the tumour burden in choriocarcinoma patients.
Forssman antigen in cancerous and normal human tissues]	By reactions of complement fixation, hemolysis and specific adsorption it was found that the heterogenous Forssman antigen is not contained in erythrocytes of normal human tissues and tumors. In the sera of healthy individuals as well as in those with cancer and benign tumors and in rabbit sera there were found complement-fixating antibodies and hemolysins being specific with regard to sheep erythrocytes (Forssman's antigen). There was noted a decreased level of heterophilic Forssman antibodies in the sera of females with malignant and benign genital tumors compared with healthy ones.
Immunology of spontaneous abortion and hydatidiform mole.	Our study of the sequence of morphological events leading to the formation of hydatidiform mole (HM) led us to this study. Our object in this paper is to present evidence supporting our 1971 hypothesis with results obtained by various immunological methods in our laboratory, and to propose the importance of an immunoregulatory mechanism by blocking antibody (BA). Our hypothesis is that the conceptus, after the early demise of the embryo, may be dropped out in most cases as spontaneous abortion (SpA), and the trophoblast in the remaining cases continues to grow, developing into HM by an "immune selection" mechanism. Our conclusion is that the trophoblast will be damaged by immune cytotoxic mechanism through a decrease of BA in SpA, and continue to grow in HM through continuous production of BA after the demise of the embryo.
Variations of plasma CEA levels in gynecologic malignancies: incidence, significance and changes occurring in response to therapy.	Serial carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) radioimmunoassay were performed on 84 patients with primary gynecologic malignancies using the double antibody method. A positive correlation between the marker levels and tumor stage was found in the subjects with invasive disease: the incidence of positive values is appreciably higher in the advanced stages of malignancies. The surgical resection normalized the pretreatment elevated levels: fluctuating CEA values were observed during chemio or radiotherapy. The findings of this investigation support the theory of the limited usefulness of the CEA levels as a diagnostic test in patients with gynecologic cancer. The determination would appear to be helpful only in case with an elevated plasma values at the time of diagnosis. The CEA test seems to indicate that serial plasma assays can be of large interest in the follow-up of this women and for the second-look surgery, chemio and radiant therapy.
Immunohistochemical profile of monoclonal antibody O13: antibody that recognizes glycoprotein p30/32MIC2 and is useful in diagnosing Ewing's sarcoma and peripheral neuroepithelioma.	Ewing's sarcoma (ES) and peripheral neuroepithelioma (PN) are closely related tumors, and it can be difficult to distinguish them from other small-round-cell tumors (SRCTs). The glycoprotein p30/32MIC2 is highly, but not exclusively, expressed in both ES and PN. Although the monoclonal antibody (Mab) HBA71, which reacts with P30/32MIC2, has been reported to be relatively specific and highly sensitive for both neoplasms, it is not readily available. Yet, Mab O13 is commercially available, and it purportedly displays the same immunostaining characteristics as HBA71. Because O13 has not been studied extensively, we immunostained 21 ES/PNs and 147 other tumors or lesions that might show SRCT-like features with O13. The results were similar to those reported for HBA71. We found O13 to be 100% sensitive for ES/PN; and, no immunostaining was noted on the SRCTs often included in the differential diagnosis of ES/PN (i.e., conventional neuroblastoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and non-lymphoblastic lymphomas). But, O13 immunoreacted with lymphoblastic lymphomas and some other tumors and normal tissues. Nonetheless, this nonspecific reactivity should not cause diagnostic problems, if an antibody panel containing anti-desmin and anti-leukocyte common antigen is used in conjunction with O13. We conclude that, within the proper diagnostic context, strong immunoreactivity of a SRCT tumor for O13 should be considered good evidence that the tumor is ES/PN.
Generation of an antibody to HLA-G in transgenic mice and demonstration of the tissue reactivity of this antibody.	A method was devised to generate antibodies against the non-classical class I HLA-G antigen. This consisted of immunising HLA-A2/beta 2m double transgenic mice with HLA-G transfected into mouse Ltk- cells. A polyclonal antibody was obtained which appears to be specific for HLA-G. The staining pattern of this antibody was restricted solely to all populations of extravillous trophoblast. No fetal tissues reacted with this antibody, including those where HLA-G mRNA has been demonstrated, such as fetal eye, thymus and liver. This study confirms that HLA-G is a trophoblast-specific protein, although it remains a possibility that the technique of immunohistology is not sufficiently sensitive to detect low level HLA-G antigen expression in non-trophoblast tissues.
Immunosuppression by hydatidiform mole trophoblast is neutralized by monoclonal antibodies to beta-interferon.	In sheep and cattle, trophoblast-derived interferons serve as signals for the maternal recognition of pregnancy and may regulate the immunologic relationship between the fetus and mother.
Gestational age correlates with immunosuppressive properties of hydatidiform mole pregnancies.	Soluble trophoblast extracts (HME) from some human hydatidiform mole pregnancies suppress IL-2-dependent T-cell proliferation, while others express no immunosuppressive bioactivity. This study was designed to determine if suppression by HME was correlated with gestational age, uterine size, or hCG secretion.
The prognostic significance of carcinoembryonic antigen in the plasma and tumors of patients with endometrial adenocarcinoma.	Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) levels in plasma and the immunocytochemical detection of tumor CEA were studied in patients with endometrial adenocarcinoma treated at the University of Kentucky Medical Center from 1973 to 1976. The incidence of CEA elevation in a group of 60 patients varied directly with uterine size, histologic differentiation, and stage of disease. Immunoperoxidase staining for CEA was performed on 42 specimens, and four were positive, indicating a tissue concentration of CEA of at least 5 microng per gram. Following operation, CEA levels returned to normal within eight weeks in all but two patients, both of whom were later shown to have persistent or recurrent cancer. These data suggest that serial plasma CEA determinations may be useful in predicting occult recurrence of endometrial cancer in patients in whom the plasma or tumor initially contains elevated concentrations of this antigen.
HLA antigen sharing in Italian couples in which women were affected by gestational trophoblastic tumors.	The development of gestational trophoblastic tumors (GTT), in which genetic factors are strongly involved, is a rare event. To test the possibility that gene(s) linked to the Major histocompatibility Complex (MHC) may have a role in both embryo growth and tumor development, the HLA typing was performed on patients affected by GTT and on their partners.
Fas-fas ligand system-induced apoptosis in human placenta and gestational trophoblastic disease.	The low frequency of maternal immune responses to paternally inherited fetal antigens raises the following question: What regulates the immunobiology of pregnancy? Data suggest that this state is the result of peripheral immune-tolerance, an active process of immune-regulation in which activated T cells undergo apoptosis. We studied Fas ligand (FasL) expression and apoptosis in normal and pathologic placentas to find out whether the Fas-FasL-induced apoptosis takes place during implantation.
