Imaging the endometrium: disease and normal variants.	The endometrium demonstrates a wide spectrum of normal and pathologic appearances throughout menarche as well as during the prepubertal and postmenopausal years and the first trimester of pregnancy. Disease entities include hydrocolpos, hydrometrocolpos, and ovarian cysts in pediatric patients; gestational trophoblastic disease during pregnancy; endometritis and retained products of conception in the postpartum period; and bleeding caused by polyps, submucosal fibroids, endometrial hyperplasia, or endometrial adenocarcinoma. Other findings include tamoxifen-associated changes, intrauterine fluid collections, and endometrial adhesions. Although ultrasound (US) is almost always the first modality used in the radiologic work-up of endometrial disease, findings at sonohysterography, hysterosalpingography, magnetic resonance imaging, and computed tomography are often correlated with US findings. It is important to understand that the appearance of the endometrium is related to multiple factors, including the patient's age, stage in the menstrual cycle, and pregnancy status and whether she has undergone hormonal replacement therapy or tamoxifen therapy. Accurate diagnosis requires that these factors be taken into account in addition to clinical history and physical examination findings.
Intrauterine versus transvaginal sonography for benign and malignant disorders of the female reproductive tract.	To determine the usefulness of high-frequency intrauterine (IUS) vs. transvaginal (TVS) sonography in the evaluation of benign and malignant uterine and tubal abnormalities.
Endorectal sonography in gynecology: usefulness and diagnostic accuracy]	The aim of this study was to assess feasibility and diagnostic accuracy of endorectal sonography (ERS) in comparison with transabdominal sonography (TAS) in women with a contraindication to endovaginal sonography (EVS).
Sonographic and Doppler imaging in the diagnosis and treatment of gestational trophoblastic disease: a 12-year experience.	To evaluate the clinical utility of sonography with Doppler examination in the diagnosis and treatment of gestational trophoblastic disease (GTD).
Ultrasound diagnosis of coexisting molar pregnancy following referral for abnormal serum screen.	Complete hydatidiform mole and coexistent fetus is a rare occurrence. We report a case of a patient referred for abnormal serum screen and vaginal bleeding in the second trimester of pregnancy. Ultrasound revealed a cystic and solid mass along the posterior uterine wall with multiple hypoechoic (honeycomb) areas noted, consistent with molar degeneration of the placenta. Separate from this mass was a coexisting viable fetus with normal fetal anatomy and distinct anterior placenta. At delivery, a large cystic mass of placental tissue appeared to be implanted separately from a normal-appearing fetus and placenta. The mass weighed 184 g and contained multiple 1- to 1.5-cm cysts throughout. Microscopic sections revealed hydropic chorionic villi with central cistern formation and nonpolar trophoblastic hyperplasia with atypia, compatible with complete hydatidiform mole. This case illustrates that the diagnosis of coexisting molar pregnancy after referral for abnormal serum screen should be considered, especially if maternal serum beta-human chorionic gonadotropin is high and the patient has vaginal bleeding.
Cystic degeneration of a leiomyoma masquerading as a postoperative abscess.	Leiomyomas are common tumors that usually have a typical sonographic appearance. With degeneration, however, the sonographic findings may be completely uncharacteristic. We report a case of a multicystic anterior uterine wall mass detected at antenatal sonography in an asymptomatic patient. Differential diagnosis included myoma, varicosity, hematoma, abscess, uterine anomaly, and pelvic neoplasm. At cesarean section, the mass was confirmed to be a myoma. Postoperatively, an ultrasound was performed by the radiology service during evaluation of suspected endometritis and the mass was interpreted as an endometrial abscess. This case illustrates that myomas can present with sonographic features consistent with a number of pathologic disorders. This variable pattern of echogenicity may sometimes create difficulty in establishing a correct diagnosis. The case also demonstrates the importance of communication between services and the need for not only antenatal but also postpartum and gynecologic ultrasound studies to be performed by physicians trained in sonographic findings of the abnormal uterus.
Computer analysis of ultrasound scans of the endometrium in menopausal women]	Ultrasound evaluation of the endometrium in menopausal women undergoing hormone replacement therapy is a classic diagnostic procedure. Subjective evaluation of ultrasound texture and echogenicity of the endometrium is a deceptive method, moreover the repetition of the procedure does not necessarily yield identical results. Due to computer analysis of an ultrasound scan, the investigator's subjective sensation, which might lead to the suspicion of pathology, was replaced with objective computer analysis, which is a comparable method, producing repeatable results.
Evaluation of abnormal uterine bleeding by transvaginal 3-D hysterosonography and diagnostic hysteroscopy.	To compare 3-D hysterosonography (3-DHS) and diagnostic hysteroscopy in women with abnormal uterine bleeding.
Gynecologic ultrasound in the acute abdomen--the predominant reasons]	In gynecological settings, a sensible approach to diagnosing acute abdomen or lower abdominal pain is to classify the cases into positive pregnancy tests (if the patient is known to be pregnant) and negative pregnancy tests (or if the patient is postmenopausal). Various forms of ectopic pregnancy and abortion are associated with early pregnancy. Once a pregnancy has been excluded, diagnostics should focus on pain in conjunction with adnexal findings, adnexal torsions, fibroids and infections. Sonography for evaluating morphology and blood circulation to organs and structures has a high diagnostic value, but should always be judged together with medical history, clinical, laboratory and any other imaging findings. Indeed, abdominal pain requires intensive interdisciplinary collaboration. Not rarely, there are several relevant causes of lower abdominal pain.
Gynecologic sonography. Report of the ultrasonography task force. Council on Scientific Affairs, American Medical Association.	Sonography, because it is nonionizing, is the preferred imaging modality for the female pelvis. Traditionally, transabdominal, transcystic studies were performed However, development of transvaginal and transrectal transducers has led to enhanced imaging capabilities of the pelvis. These new technologies will likely improve our ability to understand gynecologic pathology. The clinical use of pelvic ultrasonography depends on a thorough understanding of normal anatomy and cyclical changes and on the relative limitations of the imaging modality in specifically characterizing pathologic processes. This article reviews the accepted role of pelvic sonography in gynecologic disease and provides a preview of some of the potential applications of recent advances in sonographic technology.
Open-access transvaginal sonography in women of reproductive age with abnormal vaginal bleeding: a descriptive study in general practice.	Diagnostic ultrasonography is used by GPs in approximately 10% of patients of reproductive age with abnormal vaginal bleeding. Transvaginal sonography is recommended as a first-line diagnostic instrument for assessing uterine pathology.
A comparison between ultrasonography and hysteroscopy in the diagnosis of uterine pathology.	To evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of transvaginal sonography (TVS) compared to hysteroscopy in diagnosing uterine abnormalities. In addition, to determine whether the number of diagnostic hysteroscopies can be reduced and replaced by TVS examinations.
The value of early morphologic ultrasonography for the detection of chromosome anomalies]	To demonstrate the benefit, in terms of improved antenatal screening, in particular for 21-trisomy, to be expected from the introduction of routine vaginal morphologic echography during the first trimester of pregnancy. This work was conducted by the Department of Gynaecology-Obstetrics of the French Red Cross Teaching Hospital in Bois-Guillaume, France.
The spectrum of first-trimester ultrasound findings.	A wide spectrum of sonographic findings can be seen in the first trimester of pregnancy. One must have an appreciation of embryology to recognize normal and abnormal early pregnancy development. In this article we emphasize discriminatory criteria for identification of normal structures, as well as ultrasound findings in threatened abortion, failing pregnancy, multiple gestations, ectopic pregnancy, and trophoblastic disease. Sonoembryology, the identification of embryonic anatomy, is discussed, as are examples of early identification of anomalies.
