Comparison of hysterosalpingography, hysterosonography and hysteroscopy in evaluation of the uterine cavity in patients with recurrent pregnancy losses.	To evaluate the accuracy and acceptability of hysterosonography (HS) in the diagnosis of uterine anomalies in patients with recurrent pregnancy loss.
Intrauterine lidocaine infusion for pain relief during saline solution infusion sonohysterography: a randomized, controlled trial.	To evaluate the efficacy of intrauterine lidocaine instillation in reducing patient discomfort during saline solution infusion sonohysterography (SIS).
Virtual hysterosalpingography: experience with over 1000 consecutive patients.	With the advent of multidetector computed tomography (MDCT), a whole new spectrum of diagnostic imaging techniques and procedures appears. Virtual hysterosalpingography (VHSG) is a novel non-invasive modality for assessing the uterus and female reproductive system that combines hysterosalpingography technique with MDCT technologies. Nowadays, 64-row VHSG offers an excellent diagnostic performance, in concordance with the development of new reproductive interventions and the need of accurate diagnostic procedures. In this article, we review the VHSG technique and describe normal and pathologic findings.
Multislice computed tomography with colon water distension (MSCT-c) in the study of intestinal and ureteral endometriosis.	This study evaluates retrospectively the accuracy and reproducibility of multislice computed tomography with colon water distension (MSCT-c) in diagnosing bowel (BE) and ureteral (UE) endometriosis. Sixty-four patients underwent MSCT-c and videolaparoscopic surgery. Two radiologists reviewed MSCT-c examinations: sensitivity and specificity were calculated, considering histological exam as reference standard. In the BE cases, the degree of bowel wall infiltration was also assessed. Sensitivity and specificity for both readers were 100% and 97.6% for BE and 72.2% and 100% for UE; the interobserver agreement was excellent. The degree of bowel wall involvement was correctly defined in 90.9% of cases. MSCT-c is an accurate and reproducible technique but-considering the age of the patients-delivers a nonnegligible radiation dose.
