The economic equation.	Any hospital's success is dependent on the medical staff, administration, and governing body's attention to quality, availability, and affordability of needed services. A cooperative working relationship helps address tough issues. Physicians have been reluctant to incorporate practice efficiency into guidelines or into performance appraisals; however, not doing so places the hospital at risk and thus jeopardizes a community asset. The cost of care, limited financial resources, and the threat to future generations' access to care may drive the process. If evaluation of economic performance is to be successful, its application and limitations must be understood and embraced by medical staffs and governing bodies to ensure that fair and realistic criteria are developed that promote and preserve quality medical care for hospital patients today and in the future.
The development of cost information by DRG--experience in a Barcelona hospital.	The determination of hospital patient costing adjusted by case-mix is one of the possible applications arising from the emergence of patient classification systems, such as Diagnosis Related Groups (DRGs). Most of the experiences up until now have given priority to the determination of the total costs by DRG, making it difficult to establish comparisons between hospitals. In this article, results of an experience in Barcelona with a direct patient costing model are presented, with these later being grouped into DRGs. Descriptive information is given together with statistical analysis of the intra-DRG variability and the relationship between costs and the length of stay. Patient costing systems represent a useful instrument for hospital management as they allow analyzing variation and its reasons at DRG level. It is in fact the primary level of information required in order to develop management control in hospitals.
Application of TQM principles to the utilization management process.	Application of the philosophy and principles of TQM and CQI to utilization management within an institution necessitates an in-depth review of the systems and processes of the flow of inpatients throughout their stay. This encompasses a total systems perspective, beginning with the admitting process and going through the discharge process. TQM and CQI philosophies identify that the most significant and costly inefficiencies are due to faulty systems and processes, not individuals. Applying this management strategy to a health care institution requires a detailed review and analysis of processes by which service is delivered and requires evaluation of the outcomes of patient care and patient satisfaction.
Market forces can boost quality, lower costs.	Competitive market forces may do more to ensure healthcare quality than government regulatory attempts. Independent research can show that healthcare quality drives profits and increases market shares. Greater market shares increase volumes, and increased volumes can lead to lower costs per case. These improvements may better position providers for payer contract negotiations, especially as payers are encouraging providers to assume more risk. Ultimately, however, a public more informed about costs and outcomes may be necessary for market forces to reduce national average costs per case.
Differences between family physicians' and general internists' medical charges.	Data from 509 primary care patients were analyzed to determine whether practice style differences between family physicians and general internists generate differential utilization of health care resources leading to differential medical charges.
Knowing the SCOR: using business metrics to gain measurable improvements.	By using the Supply Chain Operations Reference model, one New York hospital was able to define and measure its supply chains, determine the weak links in its processes, and identify necessary improvements.
The de facto national system of psychiatric inpatient care. Piecing together the national puzzle.	National data regarding psychiatric inpatient episodes can be viewed in 2 ways. The normative method surveys the "specialty mental health sector." A more inclusive method includes smaller sites (e.g., the military), all of general hospital treatment (rather than only the psychiatric unit), residential treatment centers, and other residential care. The difference between the 2 methods represents approximately 725,000 episodes, at a direct cost of more than $6 billion. The more inclusive analysis of the years 1980 and 1985 reveals a strong shift to the private sector and an increase in inpatient care of children and youth that might be obscured by limiting national treatment statistics to the specialty mental health sector.
Patterns and costs of health care use of children with medical complexity.	Health care use of children with medical complexity (CMC), such as those with neurologic impairment or other complex chronic conditions (CCCs) and those with technology assistance (TA), is not well understood. The objective of the study was to evaluate health care utilization and costs in a population-based sample of CMC in Ontario, Canada.
Low cost, manual drug use review of Medicaid recipients to screen prescriber and pharmacist performance.	A manual drug use review (DUR) methodology to screen outpatient prescribing which would meet the needs of large third-party programs that cannot afford elaborate computerized DUR was developed and pilot tested. A Medicaid drugs data base was used for the pilot test. A probability sample of 100 recipients over a three-month period was selected for the DUR. The drugs for each recipient, listed by their generic composition and amount, were recorded. Then a priori, explicit, screening criteria were developed for these generics. These criteria delineated drugs of choice, daily dose and refill patterns and, as appropriate, therapy length, drug holidays, and disease-drug and drug-drug interactions. Only 11% of recipients had prescribing patterns which passed all the screens. The most frequent screening failure was due to the prescribing of a drug which was not a drug of choice. In nearly all of the cases which failed the other screens, an alert pharmacist with patient records should have noticed these problems. An analysis showed that the initial start-up cost for the manual DUR was estimated at $1053 (not including personnel fringe benefits); for subsequent quarterly review, the cost was estimated to be about $530. The project showed that manual DUR can effectively and efficiently screen prescribing in a large third-party program.
Aggressive utilization review shortens stays, lowers costs.	Reducing the number of overextended hospital stays no longer presents a problem at Framingham (MA) Union Hospital. Through the use of aggressive techniques designed by its utilization review committee, the hospital consistently has a better average length of stay by diagnosis than its peers in its geographic area. The hospital also has been able to avoid having an adversary relationship with its medical staff and has been successful in increasing patient awareness of the impact of federal regulations and cost constraints on hospitalization.
