The utrophin promoter A drives high expression of the transgenic LacZ gene in liver, testis, colon, submandibular gland, and small intestine.	Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is caused by the absence of the muscle cytoskeletal protein dystrophin. Utrophin is an autosomal homologue of dystrophin, and overexpression of the protein is expected to compensate for the defect of dystrophin. The utrophin gene has two promoters, A and B, and promoter A of the utrophin gene is a possible target of pharmacological interventions for DMD because A-utrophin is up-regulated in dystrophin-deficient mdx skeletal and cardiac muscles. To investigate the utrophin promoter A activity in vivo, we generated nuclear localization signal-tagged LacZ transgenic mice, where the LacZ gene was driven by the 5-kb flanking region of the A-utrophin gene.
A 1.3 kb promoter fragment confers spatial and temporal expression of utrophin A mRNA in mouse skeletal muscle fibers.	Upregulation of utrophin in muscle is currently being examined as a potential therapy for Duchenne muscular dystrophy patients. In this context, we generated transgenic mice harboring a 1.3 kb human utrophin A promoter fragment driving expression of the lacZ gene. Characterization of reporter expression during postnatal muscle development revealed that the levels and localization of beta-galactosidase parallel expression of utrophin A transcripts. Moreover, we noted that the utrophin A promoter is more active in slow soleus muscles. Additionally, expression of the reporter gene was regulated during muscle regeneration in a manner similar to utrophin A transcripts. Together, these results show that the utrophin A promoter-lacZ construct mirrors expression of utrophin A mRNAs indicating that this utrophin A promoter fragment confers temporal and spatial patterns of expression in skeletal muscle. This transgenic mouse will be valuable as an in vivo model for developing and testing molecules aimed at increasing utrophin A expression.
Molecular, cellular, and pharmacological therapies for Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophies.	Although the molecular defect causing Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy (DMD/BMD) was identified nearly 20 years ago, the development of effective therapeutic strategies has nonetheless remained a daunting challenge. Over the years, a variety of different approaches have been explored in an effort to compensate for the lack of the DMD gene product called dystrophin. This review not only presents some of the most promising molecular, cellular, and pharmacological strategies but also highlights some issues that need to be addressed before considering their implementation. Specifically, we describe current strategies being developed to exogenously deliver healthy copies of the dystrophin gene to dystrophic muscles. We present the findings of several studies that have focused on repairing the mutant dystrophin gene using various approaches. We include a discussion of cell-based therapies that capitalize on the use of myoblast or stem cell transfer. Finally, we summarize the results of several studies that may eventually lead to the development of appropriate drug-based therapies. In this context, we review our current knowledge of the mechanisms regulating expression of utrophin, the autosomal homologue of dystrophin. Given the complexity associated with the dystrophic phenotype, it appears likely that a combinatorial approach involving different therapeutic strategies will be necessary for the appropriate management and eventual treatment of this devastating neuromuscular disease.
