A locus on chromosome 9p predisposes to a specific disease manifestation, acute anterior uveitis, in ankylosing spondylitis, a genetically complex, multisystem, inflammatory disease.	Uveitis or intraocular inflammation is a major cause of visual loss. Acute anterior uveitis (AAU) affects approximately 40% of patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) but also affects patients with no evidence of spondylarthritis. We sought to determine whether a unique genetic region could be implicated in a specific manifestation-AAU-of a multisystem, inflammatory, genetically complex disease, AS.
Clinical characterisation and molecular analysis of Wagner syndrome.	To detail the clinical findings in a British family with molecularly characterised Wagner syndrome.
Interstitial pneumonitis in Blau syndrome with documented mutation in CARD15.	This is the first report of a CARD15 mutation-positive patient with Blau syndrome who exhibited interstitial lung disease, a feature historically considered absent from Blau syndrome, while typical of the adult form of sarcoidosis. This case illustrates the continued evolution of the phenotype of a disease initially conceived as a familial inflammatory granulomatous disease limited to the triad of synovitis, dermatitis, and uveitis.
HLA-DP antigens in patients with pauciarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis.	The distribution of the recently described HLA-DP antigens was examined in a population of patients with pauciarticular juvenile rheumatoid arthritis and iridocyclitis, in an attempt to further characterize the immunogenetically determined susceptibility to this disease. There was a significantly increased frequency of the HLA-DPw2 antigen in the patients compared with the controls (67% versus 34%; odds ratio 3.9, P = 0.003 by Fisher's exact test). Population studies and family studies showed that this association with HLA-DPw2 was not secondary to linkage disequilibrium with the previously defined HLA-D region markers of disease (HLA-DR5 and HLA-DRw8) in these patients. These data raise the possibility that susceptibility to this form of juvenile rheumatoid arthritis may be regulated by more than one HLA-linked gene.
Genetic markers for acute anterior uveitis.	One hundred and sixty-nine patients, 82 with acute anterior uveitis (AAU) only, 48 with AAU and ankylosing spondylitis (AS), and 39 with AS only were studied. The HLA antigen A2 was present in 44/82 AAU only, 31/48 AAU + AS, and 23/39 AS only. Where haplotype analysis was possible by virtue of family studies, A2 B27 was present in 7/16 AAU only, 9/15 AAU and AS and 14/29 AS only. These figures do not differ significantly from the expected values of control populations. Alpha-1-antitrypsin (alpha-1-AT) phenotypes were obtained on 30/82 AAU only, 29/48 AAU + AS, and 27/39 AS only patients. The MZ phenotype appeared in 8/86 patients tested; 4/30 with AAU only and 4/29 AAU + AS patients. This is higher than the expected value for control populations. Therefore, MZ alpha-1-AT phenotype but not HLA-A2 appears increased in patients with AAU.
HLA antigens in acute anterior uveitis and spondyloarthropathies in Asian Indians and their comparison with American whites and blacks.	HLA antigen frequencies in 53 unrelated Asian Indian patients with acute anterior uveitis, with or without associated spondyloarthropathies, were compared with our published data on American Whites and Blacks. The most frequent HLA phenotype among uveitis patients with associated ankylosing spondylitis was A9(W24), B27 in Asian Indians as compared to A2, B27 in the American Whites and Blacks.
HLA antigens, psoriasis and acute anterior uveitis in Bechterew's syndrome (ankylosing spondylitis).	One hundred and twenty-two consecutively hospitalized patients with ankylosing spondylitis (AS) were reexamined. Ninety-two per cent were HLA B27 positive. Of the HLA B27 negative patients, 60% were found to have psoriasis, as opposed to 11% of the HLA B27 positive patients. Acute anterior uveitis (AAU) was found only in HLA B27 positive patients, and more frequently in males than in females. The genetic and clinical heterogeneity of AS, together with the overlapping clinical criteria for AS and psoriatic spondylitis, may make the term "Bechterew's syndrome" preferable. Based on these findings and previous reports, we conclude that (i) AAU is a manifestation of Bechterew's syndrome in HLA B27 positive patients, (ii) HLA B27 negative patients without any obvious accompanying manifestations may suffer from psoriatic spondylitis, and (iii) genetic predisposition to psoriasis in persons who are HLA B13, B17 and B37 negative, may interact with the genetic predisposition to Bechterew's syndrome in HLA B27 positive persons and produce Bechterew's syndrome with psoriasis or psoriasis-like skin eruptions.
