Glaucoma filtering surgery with postoperative 5-fluorouracil in patients with intraocular inflammatory disease.	Twenty-one eyes of 18 patients with uncontrolled glaucoma and intraocular inflammatory disease had glaucoma filtering surgery with postoperative subconjunctival 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). Follow-up for eyes in which intraocular pressure was controlled ranged from 6 to 53 months (mean, 34 months; median, 35 months). Fifteen of 21 eyes (71%) had controlled intraocular pressure (21 mmHg or less). Control was achieved in 9 of 10 (90%) phakic eyes and in 6 of 11 (55%) aphakic or pseudophakic eyes with or without glaucoma medication. Four of six filter failures had a second filtering procedure with 5-FU, and of these four procedures, three were successful. Cataract progression occurred in 9 of 10 phakic eyes, leading to cataract surgery in 7 eyes. Other complications included corneal epithelial defects in 13 eyes, bleb leaks in 3 eyes, choroidal effusions in 13 eyes, 1 choroidal hemorrhage, 1 serous retinal detachment and macular retinal pigment epithelial disturbance associated with hypotony and choroidal effusion. Filtering surgery with postoperative subconjunctival 5-FU can successfully control intraocular pressure in eyes with ocular inflammatory disease.
The surgical therapy of equine recurrent uveitis]	Equine recurrent uveitis (ERU) is the most frequently encountered cause of eye problems and blindness in horses. Classic treatment of ERU includes mydriatics, corticosteroids and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Despite vigorous topical and systemic treatment, however, in many cases, the prognosis for preserving vision remains poor. Experiences with surgical treatment of chronic endogenous uveitis in human patients have shown that vision-impairing axial opacities in the vitreous body can be removed by pars plana vitrectomy, and that a considerable decrease in the frequency and severity of uveitic relapses results. So far, 11 eyes of 10 horses were subjected to vitrectomy. All horses had suffered from 3 or more uveitic attacks and had a hazy vitreous. In all cases, at discharge from the clinic, the vitreous chamber was less hazy compared to preoperative findings. At follow-up examinations, 8 eyes (8/10) had normal i.o. pressure, and 2 (2/10) had subnormal i.o. pressure and the vitreous chambers were clear or contained only small floaters. Uveitic attacks had not been observed in the operated eyes. Postoperative complications included fibrinous, or fibrinous-haemorrhagic exudate in the anterior chamber of all eyes, and in one eye, a minor haemorrhage in the vitreous chamber. Our preliminary results indicate that pars plana vitrectomy assuring proper case selection and accurate surgical technique, may contribute to improvement of vision and may delay the progression of uveitic complications in horses.
Intraocular lens implantation in an eye with Behçet's uveitis.	A case of intraocular lens implantation in a patient with Behçet's uveitis is presented. During a 12-month follow-up the uveitis did not flare up and no other complication developed.
Causes of enucleation following cataract surgery.	Between the years 1962 and 1976 85 eyes which had undergone cataract surgery were accessioned to the Ophthalmic Pathology Laboratory of the Helsinki University Eye Hospital. The specimens were submitted from the various eye departments of the country. Of these 8k eyes nine had been enucleated within 2 months after surgery while in 64 cases the enucleation had been performed more than 12 months after surgery. 40 eyes had had an attempted operation for senile cataract, 30 eyes for traumatic cataract while the remaining cases were congenital cataract cases or cataracts in pre-existing glaucomatous or chronic uveitis eyes. Most frequent causes for the loss of the eyes were related to incomplete or abnormal healing of the operative wound such as epithelial down-growth and closure of the chamber angle with extensive anterior synechiae leading to absolute glaucoma. It is noteworthy that all cases of epithelial downgrowth were derived from the beginning of the observation period. No new cases were obtained after 1969. Other important causes were purulent endophthalmitis and retinal detachment. Haemosiderosis was a prominent cause in the group with traumatic cataract. A careful histopathological analysis of eyes enucleated after cataract surgery is mandatory as it is from the complications we learn most in cataract surgery.
Cryocoagulation of a prolapsed iris in hypertensive uveitis]	An ICCE was complicated by iris prolapse. Three years later the eye appeared quiet and intraocular pressure was normal when the patient was admitted for secondary implantation. An uneventful IOL implantation (CILCO MT 4U) was followed by hypertensive uveitis. Local and systemic corticosteroids and antihypertensive treatment were insufficient. Cryocoagulation of the bleb was performed. The inflammation rapidly subsided and intraocular pressure normalized without further therapy.
Pars plana vitrectomy in chronic uveitis]	Sixty-eight patients (74 eyes) with chronic endogenous uveitis underwent pars plana vitrectomy. An increase in visual acuity was observed in 70% postoperatively. Visual results basically depended on the extent of previous damage to the macula. A lensectomy-vitrectomy was done in 23 eyes, while 51 eyes underwent merely a pars plana vitrectomy. The frequency and severity of uveitic relapses were diminished in virtually all cases.
