Late Cretaceous relatives of rabbits, rodents, and other extant eutherian mammals.	Extant eutherian mammals and their most recent common ancestor constitute the crown group Placentalia. This taxon, plus all extinct taxa that share a more recent common ancestor with placentals than they do with Metatheria (including marsupials), constitute Eutheria. The oldest well documented eutherian-dominated fauna in the world is Dzharakuduk, Uzbekistan. Among eutherians that it yields is Kulbeckia, an 85-90-Myr-old member of Zalambdalestidae (a family of Late Cretaceous Asian eutherians). This extends Zalambdalestidae back by some 10 million years from sites in the Gobi Desert, Mongolia. A phylogenetic analysis of well described Late Cretaceous eutherians strongly supports Zalambdalestidae, less strongly supports 'Zhelestidae' (a Late Cretaceous clade related to Tertiary ungulates), but does not support Asioryctitheria (a group of Late Cretaceous Asian eutherians). A second analysis incorporating placentals from clades that include rodents (Tribosphenomys), lagomorphs (Mimotona) and archaic ungulates (Protungulatum and Oxyprimus) strongly supports Zalambdalestidae in a clade with Glires (rabbits, rodents and extinct relatives) and less strongly 'Zhelestidae' within a clade that includes archaic ungulates ('condylarths'). This argues that some Late Cretaceous eutherians belong within the crown group Placentalia. The ages of these taxa are in line with molecularly based estimates of 64-104 Myr ago (median 84 Myr ago) for the superordinal diversification of some placentals, but provide no support for a Late Cretaceous diversification of extant placental orders.
Aral Sea and sustainable development.	Until 1960 the Aral Sea was considered the 4th largest lake in the world by surface area. The Aral Sea has two main inflows--the Amudarya and Syrdarya rivers with about 30 tributaries. From early 1960s because of extensive water use--unreturned withdrawal of water for irrigation and consequent drying up of many tributaries before reaching the main rivers--the water level in the Aral Sea began falling very rapidly. In 1965 the Aral Sea received about 56 cubic km of fresh water yearly, but this number fell to zero by the early 1980s. By 1990 the level of the Aral Sea water fell by more than 17 m, the volume of water decreased by 75%, the salinity of seawater increased up to 30 g/l, and the surface area of the sea reduced from 66,400 sq. km to 31,500 sq. km. The ecological situation in Aral Sea zone has became very dramatic. It has led to the changing of climate in the region, irrigated soils becoming deserts, deterioration of underground and surface water quality, reducing of available water for domestic and agricultural needs, loss of Aral Sea fishing and transportation importance, numerous other problems and finally put the health of present and future generations under threat. This situation not only does not promote further development of the economy of the region, but has also caused damage with irreparable negative consequences. The fact is that the basis of the regional economy is fishing and other associated businesses. Since Uzbekistan is most agricultural country its economy has serious complications. In order to prevent further deepening of this catastrophe and to improve the present situation in this area the Government of the Republic of Uzbekistan has developed a series of measures: in particular it developed efficient water use schemes, changing the cotton situation (that during the Soviet period was grown as monoculture) by planting less water-consuming varieties, reviewing using of fertilizers in agriculture etc. The Aral Sea drought became an international disaster. World Bank, UNESCO, BMBF and others attacked the problem to protect the Aral Sea.
Prevalence and features of the course of syringomyelia in the Samarkand region of the tuzbek SSR]	The paper is concerned with a clinico-statistical study of syringomyelia according to the data of neurological hospitals in the Samarkand region from 1931--1970. It was established that the portion of syringomyelia among other diseases of the nervous system is much lower (0.38%) than in other more northern regions of the country (3--7%). The author marks a significantly greater amount of patients among the city population rather than in the rural population (2/3) and a prevalence of non-natives over natives (more than 2/3). The development of syringomyelia is more milder, "benign", especially in the native population. Quite possibly this may be connected with the climatic-geographical and bio-geochemical traits of the Zarafshanskaya valley, which differs to a great extent from these indices of the territory between the Vyatka and Kama rivers where syringomyelia is frequently encountered.
Territorial distribution of 2 sympathric species of fleas--parasites of the great gerbil in the Kyzyl-Kum desert]	Fleas of Xenopsylla gerbilli and Xenopsylla hirtipes, parasites of Rhombonus optimus in the Kizil--Kum, have a sympathric distribution. Within a greater part of their common area both species vicariate in landscapes: X. hirtipes occupties more mesophilous parts while X. gerbilli is distributed in all parts where the first species is missing. The distribution of X. hirtipes depends first of all on abiotic environmental factors and that of X. gerbilli--on biotic ones, i. e. on the competition with X. hirtipes. However, under more favourable conditions (northern foothill valleys of the Bukantau ridge) both species occur together in great number.
2 new species of nematodes of the family Dolichodoridae (Nematoda: Tylenchida) from the soil around cotton roots]	The description and figures of two new species of nematodes of the genus Tylenchorhynchus Cobb, 1913 are given. T. variannus sp. n. is characterized by an asymmetrical position and variation of the width of cuticular rings in the trophic, genital and caudal parts of the body. It differs from T. irregularis Wu, 1969 in the shape of the stylet and tail and in the number and width of the tail rings. T. chirchikensis sp. n. differs from allied species by the protrusion of the cuticle into the body around the vulva, length of the ovary, structure of the head capsule, stylet and tail and by the ratio between the tail length and body width of the anus.
Development cycle of cattle sarcosporidia]	To establish the circulation of bovine sarcosporidia among wild animals of Uzbekistan foxes and young wolves were fed with bovine hearts and oesophaguses containing cysts of Sarkocystis bovicanis (= S. fusiformis). These animals were proved to be the final hosts of this species in nature. The prepatent period of S. bovicanis was found to be 7-8 and 7-9 days in foxes and young wolves, respectively and the patent one 33 and 28-34 days, respectively.
Comparative characteristics of arteriosclerosis of the aorta, subclavian, iliac and femoral arteries in the populations of Riga and Samarkand]	Visual-planimetric evaluation of atherosclerosis of the aorta, subclavian, iliac, and femoral arteries in men of 50--64 who had died in Riga and Samarkand was carried out. The values characterizing the extent and severity of atherosclerosis of these arteries in the indigenous and non-indigenous population of these cities were calculated. Differences in the morphological features and course of atherosclerosis of arteries of the extremities in relation to the place of residence were established. No significant differences in the development of atherosclerotic changes of arteries of the extremities between indigenous and non-indigenous residents of Riga were found. The indigenous residents of Samarkand had low values of the area of atherosclerotic changes of the blood vessels of the extremities as well as low frequency of stenoses and obliterating lesions as compared with the non-indigenous residents. The observed differences indicate the importance of climatic-geographical and genetic factors and national-environmental features of the way of life in the pathogenesis of atherosclerotic diseases of the extremities.
Level of microelements and anemia in pregnant women living in iodine deficient endemic area]	Complex investigation and evaluation of trace elements in the pregnant women of our region use of preparations having essential microelements for treatment of anemia in pregnant women with euthyroid goiter. Our investigation showed that in presence of iron-deficiency anemia there was found deficit non only of Fe, but also other essential microelements, particularly, iodine, maganese, selenium, molybdenum, zinc and others. The levels of toxic microelements appeared to be higher than maximal-tolerance doses among the women with iron-deficiency anemia. The results of investigations showed that prescribing preparations possessing microelements contributed to increase concentration of essential microelements. The prolonged prescribing only the same medical preparation of iron, inverse, provided forcing out of other preparations. Expediency to characterize hypochromia anemia not as ferrodeficit condition but as polydeficit one.
Helminths of amphibians of the Fergana valley of Uzbekistan]	Species diversity and some ecological peculiarities of helminthes parasitizing amphibians in the Fergana Valley of Uzbekistan have been investigated. In 652 examined specimens of amphibians (Bufo viridis--237, Rana ridibunda--415 specimens), have been found 32 helminth species belonging to 26 genera of 12 families.
Comparison between Russian and South African Karakul sheep based on blood group markers.	Gene frequencies at 10 blood polymorphic loci have been used to compare Karakuls from Uzbekistan, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics with South African Karakuls and to evaluate the influence of local Blackhead Persian sheep on the genetic composition of South African Karakuls. The data clearly show that genetic difference between the 2 populations of Karakuls is significant. The proportion of Blackhead Persian genes in South African Karakuls is estimated to be 0.2745, to which a certain degree of gene flow from other fat-tailed sheep has possibly to be added.
Osteoarchaeological evidence for leprosy from western Central Asia.	Published reports of palaeopathological analyses of skeletal collections from Central Asia are, to date, scarce. During the macroscopic examination of skeletal remains dating to the early first millennium AD from the Ustyurt Plateau, Uzbekistan, diagnostic features suggestive of leprosy were found on one individual from Devkesken 6. This adult female exhibited rhinomaxillary changes indicative of leprosy: resorption of the anterior nasal spine, rounding and widening of the nasal aperture, erosion of the alveolar margin, loss of a maxillary incisor, and inflammatory changes in the hard palate. While it is unclear whether the bones of the hands and the feet from this individual were absent as a result of collection strategy or poor preservation, lesions affecting the tibia and fibula were recorded, and the ways in which they may be related to a diagnosis of leprosy are discussed. This is the first skeletal evidence of leprosy from Central Asia and raises questions not only about the spread of the disease in the past, but also about the living conditions of what traditionally were thought of as nomadic peoples.
Prenylated benzophenones and xanthones from Hypericum scabrum.	Two new polyprenylated benzophenones, a new polyprenylated phloroglucinol, and six new xanthone derivatives were isolated from the aerial parts of the Uzbekistan medicinal plant Hypericum scabrum. Their structures were elucidated on the basis of spectroscopic evidence. The isolated compounds showed moderate cytotoxicity for human tumor cells.
Vaccine safety perceptions and experience with adverse events following immunization in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan: a summary of key informant interviews and focus groups.	Few studies have examined vaccine safety attitudes in developing countries and countries in economic transition. The objectives of this study were to identify concerns about immunizations and strategies to address these concerns in Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan, two Central Asian countries in economic transition. Qualitative text analysis was conducted on 16 focus groups and 24 key informant interviews to identify discussion themes related to the study objectives. Specific areas of concern included: adverse events following immunizations, vaccine quality, healthcare worker competence, and lack of vaccine information available to parents. Focus group participants also suggested relevant topics and sources for informational materials.
Biogeography of actinomycete communities and type II polyketide synthase genes in soils collected in New Jersey and Central Asia.	Soil microbial communities are believed to be comprised of thousands of different bacterial species. One prevailing idea is that "everything is everywhere, and the environment selects," implying that all types of bacteria are present in all environments where their growth requirements are met. We tested this hypothesis using actinomycete communities and type II polyketide synthase (PKS) genes found in soils collected from New Jersey and Uzbekistan (n = 91). Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis using actinomycete 16S rRNA and type II PKS genes was employed to determine community profiles. The terminal fragment frequencies in soil samples had a lognormal distribution, indicating that the majority of actinomycete phylotypes and PKS pathways are present infrequently in the environment. Less than 1% of peaks were detected in more than 50% of samples, and as many as 18% of the fragments were unique and detected in only one sample. Actinomycete 16S rRNA fingerprints clustered by country of origin, indicating that unique populations are present in North America and Central Asia. Sequence analysis of type II PKS gene fragments cloned from Uzbek soil revealed 35 novel sequence clades whose levels of identity to genes in the GenBank database ranged from 68 to 92%. The data indicate that actinomycetes are patchily distributed but that distinct populations are present in North American and Central Asia. These results have implications for microbial bioprospecting and indicate that the cosmopolitan actinomycete species and PKS pathways may account for only a small proportion of the total diversity in soil.
Mapping locust habitats in the Amudarya River Delta, Uzbekistan with multi-temporal MODIS imagery.	Reed beds of Phragmites australis in the River Amudarya delta near the Aral Sea constitute permanent breeding areas of the Asian Migratory locust, Locusta migratoria migratoria. Every year, thousands of hectares are treated with broad-spectrum insecticides to prevent locust swarms from damaging crops in adjacent areas. To devise efficient locust monitoring and management plans, accurate and updated information about the spatial distribution of reeds is necessary. Given the vast geographic extent of the delta, traditional, ground survey methods are inadequate. Remotely sensed data collected by the MODIS sensor aboard the TERRA satellite provide a useful tool to characterize the spatial distribution of reeds. Multi-temporal MODIS data, collected at different times of the growing season, were used to generate spectral-temporal signatures for reeds and other land cover classes. These spectral-temporal signatures were matched with reed phenology. MODIS information was digitally classified to generate a land cover map with an overall accuracy of 74%. MODIS data captured 87% of the ground-verified reed locations. Estimates derived from MODIS data indicate that 18% of the study area was covered by reeds. However, high commission error resulted from misclassification of reeds mixed with shrubs class and shrubs class as reeds. This could have resulted in overprediction of the area covered by reeds. Additional research is needed to minimize the overlap between reeds and other vegetation classes (shrubs, and reed and shrub mix). Nevertheless, despite its relatively low spatial resolution (250 m), multi-temporal MODIS data were able to adequately capture the distribution of reeds. Instead of blanketing the fragile wetland ecosystem of the Amudarya delta with chemical anti-locust treatments, plant protection specialists can use this information to devise ecologically sound pest management plans aimed at reducing the adverse environmental impact in the zone of the Aral Sea ecological catastrophe. MODIS methodology to identify reed stands can be applicable to the Migratory locust habitats in other geographic areas.
Risk of acquired drug resistance during short-course directly observed treatment of tuberculosis in an area with high levels of drug resistance.	Data on the performance of standardized short-course directly observed treatment (DOTS) of tuberculosis (TB) in areas with high levels of drug resistance and on the potential impact of DOTS on amplification of resistance are limited. Therefore, we analyzed treatment results from a cross-sectional sample of patients with TB enrolled in a DOTS program in an area with high levels of drug resistance in Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan in Central Asia.
Effects of Toxoplasma infection on menstrual function of rural and urban girls in Uzbekistan]	A total of 1393 schoolgirls, living in the town of Tashkent and in villages, were screened for toxoplasmosis by enzyme immunoassay. The infection rate was found approximately the same in town and village. Menstrual function disorders were more frequent in the rural girls that in the urban ones. Analysis of the relationship between Toxoplasma infection and menstrual function of girls has shown that this relationship often presents as irregular cycle, primary amenorrhea, and delayed menarche.
Quo vadis SANEPID? A cross-country analysis of public health reforms in 10 post-Soviet states.	The public health systems of the post-Soviet states have evolved from the san-epid system, which dominated public health practice throughout the former Soviet Union. Since independence, reforms have taken different directions. This article provides a cross-country comparison of public health reform processes and contents in 10 post-Soviet states.
Avicenna's Canon of Medicine: a look at health, public health, and environmental sanitation.	Avicenna, a renowned Persian Muslim scientist has written numerous scientific papers and valuable medical books that are respected worldwide. For centuries his masterpiece, the "Canon of Medicine", has been used as a major medical reference. The Canon, as a prime encyclopedia on medicine is comprised of five books. In the introduction to the Canon, Avicenna has described the purpose of medicine as the preservation of health if it is already attained and its restoration when it is lost. He defines health as a trait or state, which results in the normal functioning of the human body and presumes that health is a steady state, whilst disease is more of a variable concept. Thus whenever we depart from a healthy state, we approach disease. A comparison of current views regarding definitions of health, disease and their components as defined by Avicenna could open new horizons for ancient, traditional medicine. The Canon contains numerous implications concerning the infrastructures of public health-related issues. For example the specifications of healthy water and air are well described in the "Canon of Medicine". To enable a better understanding of Avicenna's viewpoints about public health, we have briefly reviewed his perspective on the topics of health, disease, and environmental sanitation concerning water and air.
Treatment of sandal burns of the feet in children in a moist environment.	Burns to children's feet are often due to scalds, from hot tap water, as an infant's skin is thinner and hence more susceptible to a full-thickness injury. In Central Asia, and particularly in Uzbekistan, many episodes of burns take place at homes because of using sandal heaters. In the case of sandal burns of the foot, it usually is not only skin that is injured but also underlying tissues: subcutaneous fat, fasciae, muscles and even bones. Many controlled studies have confirmed that wounds heal more readily in a moist, physiological environment. After performing the toilet of burn wounds of the foot, we applied Dermazin cream on the affected areas and then the foot was placed onto a polyethylene packet of large size and fixed by a bandage. Measurement of wound water evaporation was performed every day post-burn. Surgery was usually performed 15-17 days after burn by applying a perforated skin graft or a 0.2-0.3-mm-thick non-perforated skin graft. The procedures helped to improve the general condition of patients, shortened their stay in hospital and also reduced expenses and lessened joint deformities and contracture deformities. 
Improving the quality of maternal and neonatal care: the role of standard based participatory assessments.	Gaps in quality of care are seriously affecting maternal and neonatal health globally but reports of successful quality improvement cycles implemented at large scale are scanty. We report the results of a nation-wide program to improve quality of maternal and neonatal hospital care in a lower-middle income country focusing on the role played by standard-based participatory assessments.
Prevalence and clinico-functional diagnosis of chronic nonspecific diseases of the lungs among the rural population of Uzbekistan]	Overall clinico-epidemiological examination revealed a high proportion (11.4%) of rural inhabitants affected with chronic nonspecific diseases of the lung (CNDL) in Uzbekistan. Chronic bronchitis was stated to be the main clinical from of CNDL. It was detected in 9.9% of the inhabitants. Chronic obstructive bronchitis was mainly diagnosed in collective farmers and machine-operators (31%) who, in their activities, were mostly influenced by harmful labour conditions. The maximum volume rate of expiration at 50 and 75% levels and the curve of forced expiration proved to be informative for detection of obstruction in the distal bronchi. Many new cases were registered by the frequency of their referral.
Incidence of premature labor, characteristics of its course and optimization of management in areas with high birth rates]	Based on retrospective study of 9671 labor histories and prospective investigation of 90 females whose pregnancy ended in preterm labor, the authors concluded that in their region the incidence rate of premature delivery was 4.37 per cent (5.02 per cent in the rural and 3.78 in urban areas). In case of high parity, this value was twofold higher. Premature labors were not infrequently complicated by an early rupture of amniotic fluid sac (36.6 per cent), continuous waterless period (20.0 per cent), fetal asphyxia, etc. If indicated, perineotomy is to be applied to multiparous females and those with short inter partum periods. Intensive handling of preterm labor should be a method of choice in case of uterine inertia, infections, signs of fetal well-being risk, extragenital pathology. Rationalized management of premature labor reduces the incidence of hemorrhages, pathologic parturition and the rate of perinatal mortality.
Effect of the irrigation and reclamation transformation of the Karshi Steppe on burrow sandflies of the genus Phlebotomus--vectors of the causative agent of zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis]	Studies of land irrigation effect on Phlebotomus sandflies, carriers of Leishmania major (a zoonotic cutaneous leishmaniasis causative agent)--were performed for 15 field work periods, from 1967 to 1981, at 18 sites in various natural areas of the Karshi Steppe (Uzbek SSR). Over 43500 sandfly specimen were caught and identified. Regularities in sandfly number changes, first of all, that of Ph. papatasi, after irrigation were determined, with respect to various proximity of great gerbils' settlements, where sandflies breed in the irrigated fields. Well-drained sites situated higher than irrigated fields are practically unaffected by irrigation, sandflies number and specific composition being practically unchanged. At the sites situated either on the same level with irrigated fields or 3-5 m lower the number of sandflies changes usually in 2 stages: 1) short-term increase in Ph. papatasi number at the very beginning of the irrigation period; 2) formation of stably high or low Phlebotomus numbers due to stabilization of hydrothermal regime in the holes of great gerbils.
Frequency of finding hepatitis B viral markers in young children born of mothers carrying the HBs-antigen]	The present communication deals with the results of investigations on the frequency of HBsAg-carriership among expectant mothers in Fergana (the Uzbek SSR) and on the risk for their children to be infected with hepatitis B virus. To detect the markers of hepatitis B virus, the passive hemagglutination test, the enzyme immunoassay, and the radioimmunoassay were used. The incidence rate of HBsAg-carriership among expectant mothers was rather high (5.1 +/- 0.52%) in comparison with the control group (3.5 +/- 0.70%). The detection of HBsAg in children 3 months after their birth, i.e. at the term corresponding to the possible incubation period of hepatitis B, suggested that the children were infected at birth. As noted in the course of this investigation, the risk for a newborn to be infected was directly related to the titer of HBsAg, as well as to the presence of HBeAg, in the blood of the carrier mother. A high detection rate of HBsAg was registered among children born to HBsAg-carrier mothers, which makes it possible to consider these children as a high risk group with respect to hepatitis B virus infection and necessitates the development of the system of antiepidemic and prophylactic measures for preventing newborns to be infected with hepatitis B.
Epidemiology and cases of early manifestations of Huntington chorea]	The authors present some comparative data about the epidemiology of Huntington's chorea and describe a family (father and 5 children) with an unusually early onset (during the first year of life) of the typical combination of choreiform hyperkineses and slowly progressive dementia without any other focal lesions of the nervous system. The course of the disease is very mild and the type of inheritance is dominant.
Familial cases of multiple sclerosis when siblings reside in different climato-geographical zones]	A clinical study covered 11 patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) from 5 families (4 Russian and 1 Tatar family) born outside the Central Asia and then living for a long time in different climatogeographic regions of the USSR belonging to zones with varying risk of the disease: the probands have stayed in Uzbekistan while their ill siblings live in the Far East, Volga region, Urals, Tajikistan, and Kazakhstan. The ill siblings of each family irrespective of the place they live in have displayed the similarity of their age at the onset of MS, as well as the similarity of the clinical picture and the course of the process which suggests the involvement of genetic factors in the etiology of familial forms of the disease.
Ecological characteristics of horse stomach botflies in Uzbekistan]	The paper describes the flight periods and dynamics of abundance of horse botflies, life span of females and males, effect of environmental factors on the activity of flies and their behaviour, potential fecundity of different species of botflies, duration of embryonal development, preservation of viability of larvae in egg membranes, localization of different stages of botflies in the host, and methods of their control.
Factors in the spread of diseases caused by nonagglutinating vibrios studied by using the data from strain serotyping]	The method of the serotyping of strains was used for the epidemiological evaluation of the role of different factors in the transfer of infective agents in 147 cases of diseases and carrier state, caused by NAG vibrios, in Karakalpakia. Out of 150 NAG vibrio strains, 136 strains were serotyped and classified with 26 serovars. The strains were found to belong mostly to serovars 47, 37, 5 and 6 (42.0%). Most of the infected persons (58.5%) used water from open water bodies for household purposes. The role of water factor in the spread of infection was confirmed by a wide spectrum of serologic variants, a low index of the focal outbreaks (1.02), and sporadic pattern of infection. No group morbidity or toxinfection-type outbreaks were recorded.
Problem of the etiology of undifferentiated oligophrenia]	On the basis of examination of 150 families with clinically and etiologically undifferentiated oligophrenias the authors have studied a possible contribution of genetic and psychosocial factors to the formation of mental retardation. The examined families present a high and approximately equal frequency of mild forms of oligophrenia among parents and siblings which confirms a polygenic model of heredity. Familial and psychological factors appear to be involved in the formation of mental retardation. The data obtained may be used for predicting the status of the progeny and for developing therapeutic and corrective measures in cases of oligophrenia.
Effect of climate of arid zone on adaptive and non-adaptive changes in microcirculation]	State of microcirculatory bed of the bulbar conjunctiva and nail wall skin has been studied in 134 men (18-28 years old) of native (62 men) and non-native (72 men) population. It was found out that under heat discomfort the compensation is observed in native population due to the induration of the capillary network, opening of plasmatic capillaries which did not function before, tonus of venules and arterioles being preserved while the amount of "gigantic" capillaries increased. In this case the blood flow was entire, uniform and moderately accelerated. The number of functioning capillaries does not increase in non-native population, but arterioles does not increase in non-native population, but arterioles and venules were dilated, blood flow in them became more rapid, sludge-phenomenon of the I stage being observed in some people. Consequently, the observed changes in microcirculation under heat discomfort are insignificant in the native population due to available structure-morphological potentialities, while in non-native population these changes are accompanied by certain strain at the expense of available functional reserves.
An attempt at an economic assessment of the damage caused by allergenic house dust mites]	Mites have been found to contribute to the etiology of some allergic diseases most common in Uzbekistan. The economic losses caused by atopic dust-borne asthma have been estimated. The losses due to damage to the national income, which are done by disability and to the direct and indirect expenses on treatment and disability allowance have been calculated and compared. Such an attempt is useful to calculate the profitability of prevention of domestic dust mite-caused diseases and of the mite control measures.
Daily energy expenditures and energy requirements of pupils at general education schools in the Republic of Uzbekistan]	Evaluation of daily anergy expenditures was made on the basis of study of schoolchildren's time budget and their energy expenditures at the main body postures and during various types of activity. The data were used for substantiation of the physiological energy requirements to schoolchildren of different age and sex. Recommendations on the rations for schoolchildren with consideration for age and sex were made.
Daily energy expenditure and factual nutritional status of boiler-turbine shop workers at electric stations]	Daily power consumption was evaluated by gas exchange in the staff managing boiler and turbine shops at electric stations. It was established that this profession needs 4312 Cal to maintain the performance status at normal levels. The diets of the examinees were found unbalanced by the basic nutrients, mineral elements and vitamins. They do not meet qualitatively and quantitatively the needs of this professional group (the 5th group by labour intensity).
Adaptive and non-adaptive reactions of central hemodynamics to conditions of heat discomfort]	Chest rheography was used to study central hemodynamics in 134 healthy males aged 18-28 in comfortable weather conditions and discomfortable ones, that is at equivalent-effective temperature 17-24 degrees C and above 27-30 degrees C, respectively. In trained subjects from native and non-native population under comfortable weather conditions heart rate (HR) proved to be significantly reduced as compared to untrained subjects (57.6 +/- 1.1 and 56.2 +/- 1.2 against 73.9 +/- 1.7 and 70.4 +/- 0.9), whereas stroke volume in trained males was significantly larger (by 14.2 and 14.0%, respectively). Minute blood volume (MBV), cardiac and stroke indices, systolic and diastolic pressure showed no significant differences. Heat discomfort gave rise to a slow-pulse trend in trained subjects from both native and non-native populations, in untrained subjects, especially non-natives heart rate accelerated. MBV increased in trained native and non-native examinees by 11.0 and 11.1%, respectively, while in untrained natives the rise reached 17.2%. This was secured by stroke volume elevation by 14.3, 10.7 and 11.2%, respectively (p < 0.05), in non-natives by acceleration of heart rate by 11.2%. A trend to lowering of arterial pressure was more marked in untrained examinees of both populations. It is evident that in conditions of arid zone heat discomfort trained subjects from both native and non-native populations exhibited adequate hemodynamic responses, whereas strain was observed in circulatory system functioning when it adapted to heat discomfort in untrained non-natives.
The vaccinal prophylaxis of hepatitis B among children born to mothers with persistent HBs-antigenemia]	In Uzbekistan and Moldova 542 children born of HBsAg carriers were immunized against hepatitis B (with vaccine Engerix B according to the immunization schedule of 4 injections). Anti-HBs antibodies in protective titers were detected by EIA and RIA techniques in 76.7% of children aged 4-5 months after the 3rd injection, in 95.7% of children aged 15-16 months and in 90.0% of children aged 2-2.5 years after the 4th (booster) injection. In the control group (117 nonimmunized children born of HBs carriers) observed during the same period anti-HBs antibodies were detected significantly less frequently (in 7.3%, 11.6% and 12.9% of these children respectively). 1-2 months after the course of immunization was completed 74.1% of the immunized children had high anti-HBs antibody titers (exceeding 1000 IU/ml) with their subsequent decrease by 2-2.5 years of age. In the control group these figures were 27.1% and 29.0% respectively. The index of immunization effectiveness obtained by the comparison of the hepatitis B morbidity rates in both groups was 7.8. No postvaccinal complications were registered.
The reserve potentials of patients with ischemic heart disease who live under the conditions of an arid zone]	The study of physical performance of ischemic heart disease (IHD) patients in comfortable and uncomfortable (summer) weather conditions.
Mapping of ecologically unfavorable territories based on human hair composition.	As was shown (1), analysis of human hair on the population level and mapping of large territories using hair elemental composition are promising approaches for estimation of both the environmental situation and the population health status. In (1,2) the map of Uzbekistan (sampling in 1981) was discussed. Ten years later (1991), samples from the territory in the vicinity of the drying out Aral Sea were taken again. Samples were analyzed for 24 elements using instrumental neutron activation analysis. Comparison of the data and maps drawn for 1981 and 1991 and their comparison with changes of the health status have shown that repeated mapping of territories using data on human hair elemental composition could be used in medical geography, especially for prediction of health status changes in ecologically unfavorable areas.
