A complementary peptide vaccine that induces T cell anergy and prevents experimental allergic neuritis in Lewis rats.	We have developed and described a new method of altering T cell-mediated autoimmune diseases by immunization with the complementary peptide against T cell epitopes. The complementary peptide (denoted NAE 07-06) to the bovine P2 protein, residues 60-70 (denoted EAN 60-70), was tested in the Lewis rat model of experimental allergic neuritis (EAN). Immunization with NAE 07-06 induced polyclonal and monoclonal Abs that inhibited the proliferation of the P2-specific T cell line, stimulated with EAN 60-70, and recognized Vbeta, but not Valpha, of TCRs. Proliferation of T cells treated with anti-NAE 07-06 Abs could be partially restored by treatment with rIL-2, in accordance with an anergy model. A homologous sequence was found between NAE 07-06 and the VDJ junction of the TCR beta-chain from an EAN 60-70-specific T cell line. Rats preimmunized with NAE 07-06 in vivo before EAN induction showed less disease severity clinically and histologically. These data suggest a new therapeutic approach for T cell-mediated autoimmune disorders through the induction of anti-TCR Abs with complementary peptide Ags.
A canarypox vaccine expressing multiple human immunodeficiency virus type 1 genes given alone or with rgp120 elicits broad and durable CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses in seronegative volunteers.	Induction of CD8+ cytotoxic T cells is considered one of the important correlates for the protective efficacy of candidate human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) vaccines. To induce CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) along with neutralizing antibody and CD4+ T cell help, a live canarypox virus construct expressing gp120, transmembrane gp41, the gag and protease genes, and sequences containing CTL epitopes in nef and pol was given simultaneously with, or followed by, rgp120 SF2. CD8+ CTLs were detected in 61% of volunteers at some time during the trial. Three to 6 months after the last immunization, the gene-specific responses were gag, 26/81; env, 17/77; nef, 12/77; and pol, 3/16. Simultaneous immunization with the canarypox vector and the subunit, beginning with the initial immunization, resulted in earlier antibody responses. In summary, a strategy of immunization with a canarypox vector expressing multiple genes of HIV-1 given with gp120 results in durable CD8+ CTL responses to a broad range of epitopes.
Safety in infants of SPf66, a synthetic malaria vaccine, delivered alongside the EPI.	The most likely mechanism to deliver a malaria vaccine in African countries is through the Expanded Program of Immunization (EPI). So far only SPf66, a multistage synthetic peptide, has shown any evidence of protection in Phase III field trials. In Tanzania, SPf66 reduced the risk of clinical malaria by 31% in children aged 1-5 years. In order to progress in the critical path of vaccine development and testing towards the implementation of a new vaccine in malaria control programs, we carried out a randomized double-blind placebo controlled efficacy trial of SPf66 when given alongside the EPI scheme. Monitoring of safety and reactogenicity during this trial included detailed clinical and laboratory assessments on 98 infants and assessment of adverse effects within 1 h of vaccination for all 1207 children vaccinated. Surveillance systems monitored attendances as outpatients, admissions to hospital and fatal events in the community. No serious adverse effects were detected more frequently amongst SPf66 recipients compared to placebo. This first assessment in very young infants of a synthetic vaccine provides evidence of a good safety profile.
Antibody responses against flagellin in mice orally immunized with attenuated Salmonella vaccine strains.	Salmonella fIagellin has been repeatedly used as a carrier for heterologous peptide epitopes either as a parenterally delivered purified antigen or as a parenterally/orally-administered, flagellated, live, attenuated vaccine. Nonetheless, the ability to induce specific antibody responses against the flagellin moiety, fused or not with heterologous peptide, has not usually been reported in mice orally inoculated with a live, attenuated, flagellated Salmonella strain. In this work we evaluated the immunogenicity of flagellin in mice following oral inoculation with an aroA Salmonella enterica serovar Dublin SL5929 strain, which expressed plasmid-encoded recombinant hybrid flagellin fused to the CTP3 epitope (amino acids 50-64) of cholera toxin B-subunit. In contrast to parenterally immunized mice, no significant CTP3- or flagellin-specific antibody responses either in sera (IgG) or feces (IgA) were detected following repeated oral delivery of the recombinant Salmonella strain to C57BL/6 mice. Similarly, flagellin-specific antibody responses were also not detected in mice immunized with strain SL5930, which expressed a nonhybrid flagellin. The lack of flagellin-specific antibody responses was not associated with deficient Peyer patch colonization or spleen invasion. Moreover, stabilization of the flagellin-coding gene by integration into the host chromosome did not significantly improve flagellin-specific antibody responses following administration by the oral route. Taken together, these results suggest that flagellin does not represent an efficient peptide carrier for activation of antibody responses in mice orally immunized with live, attenuated Salmonella strains.
The adjuvant combination monophosphoryl lipid A and QS21 switches T cell responses induced with a soluble recombinant HIV protein from Th2 to Th1.	The induction of protective immunity with recombinant vaccines is dependent on the identification of adjuvant or delivery systems that can augment immune responses, especially cellular immune responses, to soluble protein antigen. In this study we demonstrate that an adjuvant formulation comprising QS21, a purified form of saponin and 3D-monophosphoryl lipid A (MPL), a nontoxic derivative of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), enhances cellular and humoral immune responses to a recombinant HIV protein. Analysis of cytokine secretion by antigen-specific T-cells from the spleen demonstrated that QS21 augmented Th1 and Th2 responses, whereas addition of 3D-MPL resulted in preferential induction of type 1 T-cells. Furthermore, analysis of the subclass of the IgG antibody in the serum in mice immunized with gp120 with the combined adjuvant formulation confirmed the selective activation of Th1 cells in vivo. 3D-MPL was found to enhance B7-1 expression and IL-12 production by macrophages, which are known to be involved in the LPS-induced enhancement of Th1 responses. Thus 3D-MPL appears to act as an adjuvant, without the toxicity associated with LPS, by controlled and selective potentiating effects on antigen presentation and T-cell activation.
Dendritic cell delivery of plasmid DNA. Applications for controlled genetic immunization.	Positive human clinical data using biolistic-mediated gene transfer (i.e., gene gun) to administer a nucleic acid-based Hepatitis B vaccine has validated genetic immunization as an effective clinical vaccine modality. Although the precise mechanism of action has yet to be determined, preclinical studies using jet injection have indicated that direct targeting of resident antigen presenting cells (Langerhan's cells) in the skin as the primary immunological driving force for the potent and long-lived immune response. Moreover, positive results with topical delivery of genetic vaccines and ex vivo loading of dendritic cells with antigen has strengthened the movement toward directly targeting antigen presenting cells as a means to amplify, control, and mediate the immunological consequences of prophylactic and/or therapeutic genetic vaccines. Despite these encouraging results with the gene gun, it is unclear whether this technology will translate into commercially available vaccines due to potential product development barriers such as cost and convenience. It is clear that safety concerns in using genetic approaches to treat and prevent disease have highlighted the need for strict product requirements for genetic vaccines. A plausible strategy to meet these requirements is to combine controlled plasmid delivery systems with tissue-specific gene expression systems.
Oral and sub-cutaneous vaccination of commercial pigs with a recombinant porcine adenovirus expressing the classical swine fever virus gp55 gene.	A recombinant porcine adenovirus expressing the classical swine fever virus (CSFV) gp55/E2 gene was administered to commercially available pigs via oral or subcutaneous routes and their susceptibility to oral and subcutaneous challenge with CSFV was determined. 100% of animals vaccinated and challenged subcutaneously were protected. In the groups of pigs vaccinated either orally or subcutaneously and then challenged orally, 60% of animals were protected. Before challenge, neutralising antibodies to CSFV were detected in 60% of pigs vaccinated subcutaneously, but in none of those given the vaccine orally. CSFV antigen was found in the spleens of surviving pigs that had been vaccinated orally. In contrast, subcutaneous vaccination was shown to preclude the presence of CSFV in the spleen of animals that survived challenge.
Intranasal immunization with recombinant Ascaris suum 14-kilodalton antigen coupled with cholera toxin B subunit induces protective immunity to A. suum infection in mice.	Animals can be rendered immune to Ascaris parasites by immunization with infectious-stage larvae. The specific parasite gene products that mediate protective responses in ascariasis are unknown. We have identified a cDNA encoding Ascaris suum 14-kDa antigen (As14) and evaluated the vaccinal effect of the Escherichia coli-expressed recombinant protein (rAs14). GenBank analysis showed that As14 has low similarity at the amino acid level to a Caenorhabditis elegans gene product and to antigens of the filarial nematodes but not to other known proteins. In addition, As14 homologues were found to be expressed in human and dog roundworms. In mice that received intranasal administration of rAs14 coupled with cholera toxin B subunit (rAs14-CTB), there was a 64% reduction of recovery of larvae compared with that in the nontreated group. The vaccinated mice showed a significant increase in the total serum immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels and the mucosal IgA responses. Elevation of the rAs14-specific IgE response was also seen. Measurement of the IgG subclasses showed a higher level of IgG1 and a lower level of IgG2a antibody response in the sera of the immunized mice, suggesting that protection was associated with a type II immune response. As14 is the first protective antigen against A. suum infection to be identified. Our immunization trial results in laboratory animals suggest the possibility of developing a mucosal vaccine for parasitic diseases caused by ascarid nematodes.
Immunogenicity of recombinant HBsAg/HCV particles in mice pre-immunised with hepatitis B virus-specific vaccine.	Due to their spatial structure virus-like particles (VLPs) generally induce effective immune responses. VLPs derived from the small envelope protein (HBsAg-S) of hepatitis B virus (HBV) comprise the HBV vaccine. Modified HBsAs-S VLPs, carrying the immunodominant hypervariable region (HVR1) of the hepatitis C virus (HCV) envelope protein E2 within the exposed 'a'-determinant region (HBsAg/HVR1-VLPs), elicited HVR1-specific antibodies in mice. A high percentage of the human population is positive for anti-HBsAg antibodies (anti-HBs), either through vaccination or natural infection. We, therefore, determined if pre-existing anti-HBs could influence immunisation with modified VLPs. Mice were immunised with a commercial HBV vaccine, monitored to ensure an anti-HBs response, then immunised with HBsAg/HVR1-VLPs. The resulting anti-HVR1 antibody titre was similar in mice with or without pre-existing anti-HBs. This suggests that HBsAg/HVR1-VLPs induce a primary immune response to HVR1 in anti-HBs positive mice and, hence, they may be used successfully in individuals already immunised with the HBV vaccine.
Evaluation of synthetic, M type-specific peptides as antigens in a multivalent group A streptococcal vaccine.	The recent development of emm gene sequence-based typing methodology has allowed group A streptococci (GAS) M serotype prevalence data to be determined. This information has been used to identify the components of a multivalent M protein peptide vaccine that could theoretically prevent most of the GAS-mediated diseases in the USA. In this study, we have evaluated in mice the immunogenicity and protective ability of multiple synthetic, M type-specific peptides, derived from the N-termini of three prevalent GAS serotypes (three peptides per serotype, total of nine peptides). At least one peptide, representing each of the three M types tested, was immunogenic. Five of the nine synthetic peptides tested, elicited an immune response in mice, and sera raised against four of the peptides, all possessed functional activity as demonstrated in a bactericidal assay. In vivo nasopharyngeal challenge experiments were carried out with peptides from the M1 (peptide M1-3) and M3 (peptide M3-2) proteins induced in vivo immune protection by reducing intranasal carriage. Reduction in colonization for M1-3 and M3-2 was 90% (P=0.02) and 66% (P<0.17), respectively. A reduction in colonization of 67% (P=0.03) was observed for M3-2 immunized mice when M43, a heterologous serotype, was used as the challenge strain. These results show the utility of synthetic, M type-specific peptides as antigens in a multivalent GAS vaccine.
Correlation of body temperature with protection against staphylococcal enterotoxin B exposure and use in determining vaccine dose-schedule.	The immunoprotective potential of a recombinant vaccine against the incapacitating effect of aerosolized staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB) in nonhuman primates is reported. SEB belongs to a family of structurally related superantigens responsible for serious, life threatening pathologies. Injecting the recombinant SEB vaccine did not induce temperature elevation in rhesus monkeys, a classical symptom of toxic-shock syndrome. No temperature elevation was noted following injection with control tetanus toxoid. In addition to 100% survival, we observed a clear correlation between vaccine dose and mitigation of temperature elevation after a lethal SEB aerosol challenge. We conclude that the recombinant SEB vaccine is non-pyrogenic and that monitoring changes in body temperature is an important biomarker of toxic shock in a primate animal model.
Frequent nasal administrations of recombinant cholera toxin B subunit (rCTB)-containing tetanus and diphtheria toxoid vaccines induced antigen-specific serum and mucosal immune responses in the presence of anti-rCTB antibodies.	Vaccination via a mucosal route is a very attractive means for immunization, because both local and systemic immune responses are inducible and vaccines can be administered easily and safely from infants to elderly persons. For developing widely applicable mucosal vaccines using recombinant cholera toxin B subunit (rCTB) as a safe adjuvant, we examined whether frequent nasal administrations of rCTB-containing same and different vaccines could induce antigen-specific immune responses without induction of systemic tolerance and suppression by pre-existing anti-rCTB immunity. Ten repetitive nasal administrations to mice of tetanus toxoid (TT) + rCTB or diphtheria toxoid (DT) + rCTB raised and maintained high levels of antigen- and rCTB-specific serum IgG including high levels of tetanus/diphtheria antitoxin titres and raised nasal, salivary, lung, vaginal and fecal secreted IgA, suggesting that the regimen did not induce systemic tolerance to TT/DT and rCTB. Mice successively received repetitive five doses of TT as the first antigen and subsequent five doses of DT as the second antigen, and vice versa, raised serum IgG to the second antigen at various levels including low but sufficient protective levels of antitoxin titres and induced mucosal IgA in the lungs, the vaginas and feces, but hardly in the nasal secretions and salivas. After an interval of 22 weeks between the dosage of the first and second antigens, mice induced serum IgG to the second antigen at high levels and mucosal IgA in all sites. In conclusion, anti-TT and -DT serum and mucosal antibody responses induced by repeated intranasal immunization using rCTB adjuvant lasted for a long period, and for improving the effectivity of vaccination, different rCTB-containing vaccines should be administered at appropriate intervals.
Cellulose beads bound to cellulose binding domain-fused recombinant proteins; an adjuvant system for parenteral vaccination of fish.	A recombinant form of the outer membrane protein (A-layer protein) associated with atypical Aeromonas salmonicida was expressed, fused to a cellulose binding domain (CBD) isolated from Clostridium cellulovorans. The resultant chimerical protein was bound to either Sigmacell 20((R)) or Orbicell cellulose particles. Common goldfish were injected intraperitoneally with the cellulose-protein complex and blood serum antibody levels produced against A-protein were examined weekly by means of ELISA. These titers were compared to those induced by immunization of goldfish with the same protein, with or without Freund's incomplete adjuvant, as well as to a standard bacterin-adjuvant system. Small Orbicell beads (1-10 microM) induced antibody levels that were equal to the titers produced by the adjuvanted protein and bacterin formulae. In comparison, the larger Sigmacell particles (10-20 microM) proved to be poor immunopotentiators. The long-term titer elicited from a single injection of A-protein bound to Orbicell beads was equivalent to that induced by two injections. All the vaccinated fish demonstrated memory to the A-layer protein after exposure to a pathogenic load of atypical A. salmonicida with Orbicell treated fish displaying the highest titer. No direct correlation was found between the presence of anti-A-protein antibodies and protection against infection. The paper describes a simple and safe method to increase the potential immunogenicity of soluble recombinant proteins by employing relatively inexpensive cellulose particles.
A MAGE-3 peptide presented by HLA-DR1 to CD4+ T cells that were isolated from a melanoma patient vaccinated with a MAGE-3 protein.	"Cancer-germline" genes such as those of the MAGE family are expressed in many tumors and in male germline cells, but are silent in normal tissues. They encode shared tumor-specific Ags, which have been used in therapeutic vaccination trials of cancer patients. MAGE-3 is expressed in 74% of metastatic melanoma and in 50% of carcinomas of esophagus, head and neck, bladder, and lung. We report here the identification of a new MAGE-3 peptide, which is recognized by three different CD4(+) T cell clones isolated from a melanoma patient vaccinated with a MAGE-3 protein. These clones, which express different TCRs, recognize an HLA-DR1 peptide ACYEFLWGPRALVETS, which corresponds to the MAGE-3(267-282) and the MAGE-12(267-282) protein sequences. One of the T cell clones, which expresses LFA-1 at a high level, lysed tumor cells expressing DR1 and MAGE-3. Another of these DR1-restricted CD4(+) clones recognized not only the MAGE-3/12 peptide but also homologous peptides encoded by genes MAGE-1, 2, 4, 6, 10, and 11.
Application of chimeric feline foamy virus-based retroviral vectors for the induction of antiviral immunity in cats.	In order to define the potential and applicability of replication-competent foamy virus-based vaccine vectors, recombinant feline foamy virus (FFV) vectors encoding defined segments of the feline calicivirus (FCV) capsid protein E domain were constructed. In cell cultures, these FFV-FCV vectors efficiently transduced and expressed a hybrid fusion protein consisting of the essential FFV Bet protein and the attached FCV E domains. The stability of the vectors in vitro was inversely correlated to the size of the heterologous insert. The deletion of a part of the FFV U3 sequence in these FFV-FCV vectors did not interfere with replication and titer in cell cultures but increased the genetic stability of the hybrid vectors. Selected chimeric vectors were injected into immunocompetent cats and persisted in the transduced host concomitant with a strong and specific humoral immune response against vector components. In a substantial number of cats, antibodies directed against the FCV E domain were induced by the FFV-FCV vectors, but no FCV-neutralizing activities were detectable in vitro. When the vaccinated cats were challenged with a high-titer FCV dose, sterile immunity was not induced by any of the hybrid FFV-FCV vectors. However, the FFV-FCV vector with a truncated U3 region of the long terminal repeat promoter significantly reduced the duration of FCV shedding after challenge and suppressed the appearance of FCV-specific ulcers. Possible mechanisms contributing to the partial protection will be discussed.
Immune responses dependent on antigen location in recombinant attenuated Salmonella typhimurium vaccines following oral immunization.	The subcellular location of a recombinant antigen in recombinant attenuated Salmonella vaccines may influence immunogenicity dependent on exposure of the recombinant antigen to cells involved in systemic immune responses. It has been shown that a recombinant attenuated Salmonella vaccine secreting the recombinant Streptococcus pneumoniae PspA (rPspA) antigen specified by pYA3494 induced protective anti-rPspA-specific immune responses (Kang et al. (2002) Infect. Immun. 70, 1739-1749). A recombinant plasmid pYA3496 specifying a His(6)-tagged rPspA (His(6)-rPspA) protein (no apparent signal sequence) caused the rPspA antigen to localize to the cytoplasm of Salmonella. Salmonella vaccines carrying pYA3494 or pYA3496 expressed similar amounts of rPspA. After a single oral immunization in BALB/c mice with 10(9) colony-forming units (CFU) of the recombinant Salmonella vaccines carrying pYA3494 or pYA3496, IgG antibody responses were stimulated to both rPspA and Salmonella lipopolysaccharide (LPS) antigens. The anti-rPspA IgG titer induced by Salmonella carrying pYA3494 (1.9 x 10(7)) was 10(4) times higher than induced by Salmonella carrying pYA3496 (<2.4 x 10(3)).
Clinical study to assess the immunogenicity and safety of a recombinant Pseudomonas aeruginosa OprF-OprI vaccine in burn patients.	In a recent clinical trial we evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of a recombinant OprF-OprI vaccine consisting of the mature outer membrane protein I (OprI) and amino acids 190-342 of OprF of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in burn patients and compared the elicited antibodies with antibodies against tetanus as response to a simultaneous immunization given on the day of admission. Safety and immunogenicity of the vaccine had been tested before in healthy human volunteers as published in 1999. In this first clinical trial we immunized eight burn patients suffering from second or third degree burns involving between 35% and 55% of the body surface three times with 100 microg of the OprF-OprI vaccine. The vaccine was found to be very well tolerated. The patients did not show any serious side effects - and in particular no activation of the mediator cascade was observed. None of the subjects showed systemic P. aeruginosa infections during or after the treatment of their burns. The serological tests (ELISA) for detection of antibodies against P. aeruginosa and tetanus toxoid showed seroconversion for seven patients after inoculation. The data indicate that OprF-OprI can be a useful vaccine in the therapeutic management of burn injuries.
Mucosal vaccination with a recombinant OprF-I vaccine of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in healthy volunteers: comparison of a systemic vs. a mucosal booster schedule.	We compared the immunogenicity of two vaccination schedules with either a systemic or a mucosal booster, both following a mucosal primary vaccination with a recombinant outer membrane fusion protein of Pseudomonas aeruginosa (OprF-I) in 12 healthy volunteers. The systemic booster induced higher levels of OprF-I-specific serum antibodies of IgG isotype, with a mean+/-S.E.M. of 32.6+/-7.8x10(7) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) units (EU) as compared to the nasal booster with 14.6+/-2.1x10(7) EU (P=0.05). Specific serum IgA antibodies and antibodies in saliva did not differ between the two vaccination groups. We conclude that a combined mucosal/systemic vaccination with the OprF-I vaccine may offer an enhanced systemic immunogenicity. Further studies on the long-term immunogenicity and induction of antibodies on the respiratory airway surface are warranted.
HIV-1 vaccination administered intramuscularly can induce both systemic and mucosal T cell immunity in HIV-1-uninfected individuals.	A vaccine regimen that can rapidly control HIV-1 replication at the site of exposure following sexual contact is likely to be the most effective in preventing HIV-1 infection. As part of a larger, phase II clinical trial, we evaluated the ability of a recombinant canarypox HIV-1 vaccine to induce CTL that can be detected in both the systemic and mucosal compartments following i.m. immunization in 12 low- and high-risk HIV-1 seronegative volunteers. In the 7 volunteers receiving four immunizations with live recombinant canarypox ALVAC-HIV vaccine with or without rgp120/SF-2, HIV-1-specific CTL were detected in the blood of 5 (71%) and in the rectum of 4 (57%). CTL responses were observed in both risk strata. In contrast, 5 volunteers receiving placebo had undetectable responses in both compartments. Vaccine-induced, HIV-1-specific effector activities included IFN-gamma secretion and class I MHC-restricted CD8(+) CTL. Rectal and systemic CD8(+) CTL clones established in 1 vaccine recipient revealed similar Env-specific responses and MHC restriction. These findings indicate that parenteral vaccination can induce HIV-1-specific CTL that localize to sites of HIV-1 acquisition, where their presence may be critical in the control of initial viral replication and eventual dissemination. Determination of the optimal strategy to induce mucosal T cells requires future clinical studies.
The dual role of CD8+ T lymphocytes in the development of stress-induced herpes simplex encephalitis.	Despite the generally restrictive nature of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), circulating lymphocytes can infiltrate into the central nervous system (CNS) during a variety of disease states. Although the contributions of these lymphocytes to CNS-associated disease have been identified in some viral models, the factors which govern this infiltration following herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection remain to be elucidated. We have developed a murine model of HSV encephalitis (HSE) to define the relationship among psychological stress, the recruitment of HSV-specific T cells into the CNS, and the development of HSE. Naive mice, as well as mice that had been vaccinated with a recombinant vaccinia virus (rVVESgB498-505) that elicits the generation of HSV-1 gB498-505-specific CD8(+) T cells, were infected intranasally (i.n.) with HSV-1 McIntyre. Beginning one day prior to HSV-1 infection and continuing for a total of 9 days, naive and vaccinated mice were exposed to a well-established stressor, restraint stress. Naive, stressed mice exhibited increased symptoms of HSE and HSE-associated mortality as compared to non-stressed controls. A concomitant increase in CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells in the brain was observed throughout the infection, with CD8(+) T cells outnumbering CD4(+) T cells. The development of HSE in these naive, stressed mice was accompanied by a delayed infiltration of gB498-505-specific CD8(+) T cells after HSV spread into the brain. In contrast, both stressed and non-stressed rVVESgB498-505-vaccinated mice possessed gB498-505-specific CD8(+) T cells prior to HSV challenge and were protected against HSE despite having detectable HSV-1 DNA in the brain. Together, these findings suggest that a delayed infiltration of CD8(+) T cells into the brain may promote HSE in naive mice, while the presence of HSV-specific CD8(+) T cells in the brain prior to HSV challenge is protective, possibly by limiting HSV replication and spread within the CNS.
Comparative efficacy of three doses of the genetically engineered Aujeszky's disease virus vaccine strain 783 in pigs with maternal antibodies.	Pigs with low levels of maternally derived antibodies were vaccinated twice intramuscularly with 10(5), 10(5.5), or 10(6) plaque forming units (p.f.u.) of the genetically engineered Aujeszky's disease virus (ADV) vaccine strain 783. Strain 783 has deletions in genes encoding glycoprotein gI and thymidine kinase. All vaccinated pigs showed a high level of protection against clinical disease after challenge infection with virulent ADV. Vaccination also reduced virus excretion. The daily mean virus excretion and the mean number of days with virus excretion, fever, mild clinical signs, and growth retardation were higher in pigs vaccinated with 10(5) than in pigs vaccinated with 10(5.5) or 10(6) p.f.u. of strain 783.
Progress towards rabies control.	Although safe and efficacious tissue-culture-derived rabies vaccines are available in developed countries, much of the world still depends on vaccines derived from neural tissue which were introduced half a century ago. Considerable advances have been made in our understanding of the molecular biology of rabies virus, and genetically engineered recombinant viruses (vaccinia-rabies virus glycoprotein) have been developed. These may facilitate the control of rabies in some species by oral vaccination campaigns.
Highly effective control of an AIDS virus challenge in macaques by using vesicular stomatitis virus and modified vaccinia virus Ankara vaccine vectors in a single-boost protocol.	Previous studies have shown that vaccination and boosting of rhesus macaques with attenuated vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) vectors encoding Env and Gag proteins of simian immunodeficiency virus-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) hybrid viruses protect rhesus macaques from AIDS after challenge with the highly pathogenic SHIV 89.6P (23). In the present study, we compared the effectiveness of a single prime-boost protocol consisting of VSV vectors expressing SHIV Env, Gag, and Pol proteins to that of a protocol consisting of a VSV vector prime followed with a single boost with modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) expressing the same SHIV proteins. After challenge with SHIV 89.6P, MVA-boosted animals controlled peak challenge viral loads to less than 2 x 10(6) copies/ml (a level significantly lower than that seen with VSV-boosted animals and lower than those reported for other vaccine studies employing the same challenge). MVA-boosted animals have shown excellent preservation of CD4(+) T cells, while two of four VSV-boosted animals have shown significant loss of CD4(+) T cells. The improved protection in MVA-boosted animals correlates with trends toward stronger prechallenge CD8(+)-T-cell responses to SHIV antigens and stronger postchallenge SHIV-neutralizing antibody production.
Recombivax-HB: perspectives past, present and future.	Hepatitis B disease has caused a heavy burden worldwide. The development of an immunogenic, efficacious and safe vaccine to combat this problem has already eased this burden to some extent. The incorporation of the vaccine into the infant and childhood immunization schedule has led to a decrease in the number of new hepatitis B cases reported each year, and there has been a significant decline in hepatocellular carcinoma in children. This implies that the future will see less hepatitis B disease as the infant and adolescent population that has been immunized ages, meaning that the disease burden should fall even further.
An avirulent chimeric Pestivirus with altered cell tropism protects pigs against lethal infection with classical swine fever virus.	A chimeric Pestivirus was constructed using an infectious cDNA clone of bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) [J. Virol. 70 (1996) 8606]. After deletion of the envelope protein E2-encoding region, the respective sequence of classical swine fever virus (CSFV) strain Alfort 187 was inserted in-frame resulting in plasmid pA/CP7_E2alf. After transfection of in vitro-transcribed CP7_E2alf RNA, autonomous replication of chimeric RNA in bovine and porcine cell cultures was observed. Efficient growth of chimeric CP7_E2alf virus, however, could only be demonstrated on porcine cells, and in contrast to the parental BVDV strain CP7, CP7_E2alf only inefficiently infected and propagated in bovine cells. The virulence, immunogenicity, and "marker vaccine" properties of the generated chimeric CP7_E2alf virus were determined in an animal experiment using 27 pigs. After intramuscular inoculation of 1 x 10(7) TCID(50), CP7_E2alf proved to be completely avirulent, and neither viremia nor virus transmission to contact animals was observed; however, CSFV-specific neutralizing antibodies were detected from day 11 after inoculation. In addition, sera from all animals reacted positive in an E2-specific CSFV-antibody ELISA, but were negative for CSFV-E(RNS)-specific antibodies as determined with a CSFV marker ELISA. After challenge infection with highly virulent CSFV strain Eystrup, pigs immunized with CP7_E2alf were fully protected against clinical signs of CSFV infection, viremia, and shedding of challenge virus, and almost all animals scored positive in a CSFV marker ELISA. From our results, we conclude that chimeric CP7_E2alf may not only serve as a tool for a better understanding of Pestivirus attachment, entry, and assembly, but also represents an innocuous and efficacious modified live CSFV "marker vaccine".
Safety and immunogenicity of Bilive combined hepatitis A and B vaccine]	To study the safety and immunogenicity of the Bilive combined hepatitis A and B vaccine produced by Sinovac Biotech Co., Ltd.
Use of type V group B streptococcal conjugate vaccine in adults 65-85 years old.	One-third of the cases of invasive group B streptococcal (GBS) disease now occur in adults >or=65 years old. Serotype V is most frequent among these invasive isolates. The safety and immunogenicity of type V GBS capsular polysaccharide (CPS)-tetanus toxoid (V-TT) conjugate vaccine (CV) were assessed in 32 healthy adults 65-85 years old who were randomized to receive a single intramuscular dose of V-TT CV (n=22) or licensed tetanus-diphtheria toxoid vaccine (Td) (n=10; double-masked design). V-TT CV elicited significant increases in type V CPS-specific immunoglobulin (Ig) G, IgM, and IgA serum concentrations 4, 8, 26, and 52 weeks after immunization. V-TT-induced type V CPS-specific antibodies promoted the opsonophagocytic killing of type V GBS in vitro. Both vaccines elicited similar concentrations of TT-specific IgG in 4-week postimmunization serum samples. These results suggest the potential for prevention of invasive type V GBS infections in healthy elderly adults through immunization.
Development of an in vitro-based potency assay for anthrax vaccine.	The potency assay currently used to evaluate consistency of manufacture for the anthrax vaccine is contingent upon meeting specified parameters after statistical analysis of the percent survival and time to death of vaccinated guinea pigs after challenge with spores of a virulent strain of Bacillus anthracis. During the development of a new anthrax vaccine based upon recombinant protective antigen (rPA) adsorbed to aluminum hydroxide gel (Alhydrogel), we found that the serological response of female A/J mice, as measured by a quantitative anti-rPA IgG ELISA, may be an effective method to monitor a manufacturer's consistency for rPA-based vaccines. An advantage of the proposed in vitro-based potency assay is that it will not need stringent biosafety containment measures as required by the current guinea pig potency assay.
Local delivery of recombinant vaccinia virus expressing secondary lymphoid chemokine (SLC) results in a CD4 T-cell dependent antitumor response.	Secondary lymphoid chemokine (SLC) attracts mature dendritic cells (DCs) and naïve T cells. Co-localization of these cells within local tumor environments may enhance the induction of tumor-specific T cells. However, the presence of danger signals or other DC maturation signals are required to optimize T-cell priming. We hypothesized that expression of SLC in vaccinia virus would provide local chemokine delivery and adjuvant factors. A recombinant vaccinia virus expressing murine SLC (rVmSLC) was constructed and characterized. SLC expression was confirmed by Western blot analysis and functional activity was determined by in vitro chemotaxis assay. Supernatants from rVmSLC-infected cells attracted CD4 T cells, and also induced the migration of CD8 T cells and DCs. Although poxviruses are known to express several chemokine-binding proteins, systemic injection of rVmSLC was well tolerated in mice up to a dose of 1 x 10(7) pfu and did not significantly alter vaccinia-specific T-cell immunity. Local injection of rVmSLC into established tumors derived from the murine colon cancer line, CT26, resulted in enhanced infiltration of CD4 T cells, which correlated with inhibition of tumor growth. The central role of CD4 T cells was further demonstrated by loss of anti-tumor activity in CD4 T-cell depleted mice. Intratumoral delivery of SLC using a poxviral vaccine extends the use of SLC in anti-tumor therapies and may present an effective alternative for improving the immunotherapy of cancer alone or in combination with other anti-tumor agents for clinical therapy.
Vaccination against hepatitis B in preschool children with Down's syndrome.	Twenty-nine healthy HBsAg- and HBsAb-negative children with Down's syndrome who were living at home (mean age 42 months; 19 M, 10 F) were vaccinated against hepatitis B virus either with recombinant DNA or plasma-derived vaccine. Both groups of children responded well to the vaccination schedules, with HBsAb seroconversion rates close to 100%. Vaccination against hepatitis B in preschool children with Down's syndrome is effective in spite of the existing abnormalities of the immune function.
Gly145 to Arg substitution in HBs antigen of immune escape mutant of hepatitis B virus.	A Japanese child born to an HBeAg-positive carrier mother received anti-HBs immunoglobulins and a plasma-derived HBs vaccine with a poor anti-HBs-antibody response. The child, who is now 3 years old, is presently suffering from chronic hepatitis with unusual serological findings that are positive for HBsAg, anti-HBs and HBeAg, since being infected with a measles virus at 12 months of age. The nucleotide sequences of the S region of HBV DNA obtained from the patient, the mother and an HBeAg-positive brother were completely identical except for one nucleotide at position 587 (mother and brother: guanosine, patient: adenosine), giving an amino acid change: Gly - greater than Arg at position 145 of the major HBs protein.
Heat stability of a recombinant DNA hepatitis B vaccine.	The heat stability of a recombinant DNA hepatitis B vaccine was studied in healthy adult volunteers. When compared with vaccine stored at 4 degrees C, heating of the vaccine for 1 week at 45 degrees C or for 1 month at 37 degrees C did not alter the reactogenicity or the ability of the vaccine to elicit antibody titres considered to be protective. These results have significance in situations where the cold chain is broken, as can happen in countries where proper storage and transport facilities are not always available.
Comparative immunogenicity in children of mammalian cell-derived recombinant hepatitis B vaccine and plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine.	Three doses of hepatitis B vaccine were given at 2, 4 and 9 months of age to 220 Senegalese infants living in the Dakar area of Senegal. Half of the infants received 5 micrograms plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine (Hevac B) and the remainder 20 micrograms mammalian cell-derived recombinant hepatitis B vaccine (GenHevac B). Both vaccines contain S and pre-S2 encoded proteins; however, the recombinant vaccine had a much higher pre-S2 content than the plasma-derived vaccine. Adverse reactions to both vaccines were limited to mild and transient soreness at the injection site. Fever was reported in 14-21% of the infants and was likely to be related to DTP-polio vaccine which was given simultaneously. After the two first doses, seroconversion rates and geometric mean titres of anti-HBs were higher in infants receiving the recombinant vaccine than in infants receiving the plasma-derived vaccine. After completion of vaccination, all infants in both groups had protective levels of anti-HBs antibodies. The recombinant vaccine induced more rapidly antibodies directed against S and pre-S2 epitopes. Anti-pre-S2 antibodies were detected after the first injection of GenHevac B and only after the third injection of Hevac B. From the data, GenHevac B vaccine is expected to be as effective as Hevac B vaccine for controlling hepatitis B infection.
Lymphocyte proliferative responses following immunization with human immunodeficiency virus recombinant GP160. The NIAID AIDS Vaccine Clinical Trials Network.	Following immunization of healthy adult volunteers with baculovirus-derived HIV-1 gp160 vaccine (rgp160), we measured lymphocyte proliferation to rgp160, the V3 loop peptide of gp160, control proteins, and phytohaemagglutinin. Four persons received injections of 40 micrograms or 80 micrograms of rgp160 vaccine at times 0, and 1, 6 and 18 months; one additional volunteer received only three injections of vaccine. Vaccination with rgp160 induced lymphocyte proliferative responses to rgp160, but not to V3 loop peptide. Repeated injection of rgp160 even at low doses induced a cellular immune response which was not attributable to T-cell recognition of the V3 loop peptide.
Virus-like particles as HIV-1 vaccines.	Traditional successful antiviral vaccines have relied mostly on live-attenuated viruses. Live-attenuated HIV vaccine candidates are not ideal as they pose risks of reversion, recombination or mutations. Other current HIV vaccine candidates have difficulties generating broadly effective neutralising antibodies and cytotoxic T cell immune responses to primary HIV isolates. Virus-like-particles (VLPs) have been demonstrated to be safe to administer to animals and human patients as well as being potent and efficient stimulators of cellular and humoral immune responses. Therefore, VLPs are being considered as possible HIV vaccines. Chimeric HIV-1 VLPs constructed with either HIV or SIV capsid protein plus HIV immune epitopes and immuno-stimulatory molecules have further improved on early VLP designs, leading to enhanced immune stimulation. The administration of VLP vaccines via mucosal surfaces has also emerged as a promising strategy with which to elicit mucosal and systemic humoral and cellular immune responses. Additionally, new information on antigen processing and the presentation of particulate antigens by dendritic cells (DCs) has created new strategies for improved VLP vaccine candidates. This paper reviews the field of HIV-1 VLP vaccine development, focusing on recent studies that will likely uncover promising prospects for new HIV vaccines.
Oral immunization of mice with Japanese encephalitis virus envelope protein synthesized in Escherichia coli induces anti-viral antibodies.	In order to evaluate the possibility of developing an oral vaccine against Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV), mice were fed with recombinant JEV envelope (E) protein synthesized in Escherichia coli. The protein was administered orally to mice with or without an immunostimulatory cytosine-phosphate-guanosine (CpG) motif containing synthetic oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) as an adjuvant. The immunized mice made high-titered anti-E and anti-JEV antibodies. Mice immunized with JEV E protein along with the ODN adjuvant produced higher antibody titers and these were predominantly IgG2a type. These antibodies, however, failed to neutralize JEV activity in vitro, and the immunization did not protect the mice against lethal JEV challenge. Splenocytes from the immunized mice secreted large amounts of interferon (IFN)-gamma and showed proliferation in the presence of JEV E protein. Our results indicate that JEV E protein delivered orally to mice together with ODN generated both humoral and cellular immune responses to JEV, and these were of the Th1 type.
Oral and intraperitoneal immunization with rotavirus 2/6 virus-like particles stimulates a systemic and mucosal immune response in mice.	We examined the use of a virus-like particle (VLP) as an immunogen by analysing the IgA and IgG response generated in serum, intestinal (fecal), pulmonary and uterine samples. The particle comprised two rotavirus capsid proteins (simian VP2 and murine VP6) generated using recombinant baculovirus expression of the two capsid proteins, which self-assembled into particulate VLP2/6. Mice were immunized orally or intraperitoneally (i.p.) with 0 or 100 microg VLP2/6 with or without 5 microg cholera toxin adjuvant. The results showed a systemic and mucosal immune response to VLP2/6 when administered i.p. and, to a lesser extent, when delivered orally which was not dependent on adjuvant use and further proves the concept of VLP2/6 as an effective immunogen.
Assessment of the immunological and biological efficacy of two different doses of a recombinant GnRH vaccine in domestic male and female cats (Felis catus).	This study has assessed the immunological and biological efficacy of two different doses of a recombinant GnRH vaccine administered to intact domestic cats. Fifteen kittens, 8-9 weeks of age, were allocated to three unequal treatment groups: group 1, 1 male control cat; group 2, 5 females administered 10 microg of GnRH antigen; and group 3, 4 males and 5 females administered 100 microg of GnRH antigen. Animals in groups 2 and 3 were immunized at study days 0, 28 and 643. One of the four males (AJZ3) in the high dose group showed a more rapid decline in GnRH antibody titers and received an additional immunization at day 461. Blood samples were collected on study days 28, 35, 56, 97, 157, 213, 270, 325, 377, 433, 496, 549, 605, and 685. The injection sites were monitored for tissue reactivity on study days 5, 7, 12, and 28. The animals' general health and demeanor was monitored on a daily basis. Sera obtained from 11 animals on day 549 were submitted for biochemistry analysis. Two males and two females were necropsied at the completion of the study and histopathological examination of the gonads, hypothalamus, pituitary, kidneys and uterus was performed. All 14 immunized animals developed immunoneutralizing titers to GnRH. GnRH titers peaked at day 56 and 13 of 14 cats maintained these titers for >20 months. Except for AJZ3, the immunized males' serum testosterone concentrations were below the assay's level of detection after the second immunization. None of the 10 immunized females showed signs of estrous behavior or became pregnant. Testicular and ovarian histology was consistent with suppression of LH and FSH activity. The majority of tissue reactions resolved by 28 days post-vaccination. Serum biochemistry and tissue histopathology revealed no evidence of tissue or organ damage. This study was unique in that a recombinant GnRH antigen was used to stimulate and maintain biologically relevant titers in very young male and female cats for at least 20 months.
High diversity of group A Streptococcal emm types in an Indian community: the need to tailor multivalent vaccines.	Concern about the emergence of antibiotic-resistant strains and about morbidity and/or mortality related to rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease has been a continuous impetus for the development of a safe, effective vaccine against group A Streptococcus (GAS). To date, >120 GAS M types are known, as identified by serological typing. In general, serum immunoglobulin G directed to the hypervariable NH2 terminal portion of M protein leads to complement fixation and opsonophagocytosis of the homologous streptococcal serotype by polymorphonuclear leukocytes, and the protection is type specific. The sequence variation at the N terminus ultimately affects the binding of opsonic antibodies. Because of hypervariability in these opsonic sequences from different M types, it was relevant to use epitopes derived from these multiple sequences in a "multivalent vaccine" design for evaluation of protection against these M types of GAS. Thus, any attempts to design vaccines for a given community will require information on N terminal-sequence typing and variation.
Peptide immunogens designed to enhance immune responses against human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) mutant strains: a plausible means of preventing viral persistence.	A major problem impeding the development of an effective HIV-1 vaccine is the rapid antigenic variability that occurs throughout the viral genome but is most pronounced in the envelope (env) gene and env gene products. The high number of errors made by the reverse transcriptase (RT) enzyme and the absence of an RT proofreading mechanism during HIV-1 replication leads to new antigenic variants that escape current immunological attack. In turn, accumulation of escape mutants leads to a persistent infection. It has been hypothesized through many means including mathematical modeling that preventing HIV persistence necessitates a vaccine that enhances immunity against a sufficiently large fraction of mutant stains. To this extent we have developed a 4 branched--and an 8 branched--multiple epitope immunogen (MEI) that in theory represent 6.7x10(7) and 1.8x10(16) envelope V3 loop sequences respectively. Both MEI constructs were recognized by antibodies in sera from AIDS and/or HIV-1 positive patients from South Africa and Puerto Rico. The immunogens also induced immune responses in MF1 mice and New Zealand White rabbits with the octameric MEI proving to be a more effective antigen. This data supports our hypothesis that synthetic peptides designed to represent the variable regions of HIV-1 envelope should induce immunity against a large quantity of mutant strains.
IL-15-independent antiviral function of primary and memory CD8+ T cells.	Memory CD8+ T cells are comprised of CD122hi IL-15-dependent and CD122lo IL-15-independent subsets. Induction and retention of IL-15-independent memory CD8+ T cells was assessed in IL-15-/- and wild-type (wt) mice immunized with recombinant vaccinia virus (rVV) or Sindbis virus (rSIN) vectors expressing the identical foreign epitope. Both vectors induced epitope-specific CD8+ T cell expansion and function, independent of IL-15. Similar kinetics of rVV clearance confirmed effective CD8+ T cell function in IL-15-/- mice. CD44hi CD122hi CD8+ T cells, mainly of the CD62L-/lo phenotype, increased more dramatically and declined more rapidly in IL-15-/- mice, independent of the vector. Rapid IL-15-independent memory CD8+ T cell expansion following challenge of immune mice compensated for the limited memory CD8+ populations in IL-15-/- mice. However, despite expansion and expression of potent effector function, viral clearance was delayed in the absence of IL-15, coinciding with a rapid loss in cytolytic function.
Mouse model characterisation for anthrax vaccine development: comparison of one inbred and one outbred mouse strain.	In order to evaluate the immunogenicity and protective efficacy of anthrax vaccine candidates a suitable small animal model is required. The inbred A/J strain of mouse has been selected as a potential model, and its immune response to immunisation with recombinant protective antigen (rPA) vaccine characterised, by assessment of rPA specific antibody production, and protection against injected challenge, with the unencapsulated STI strain of Bacillus anthracis. Studies were conducted to determine the time required post immunisation to develop a protective immune response, to define the minimum protective dose of vaccine required and to assess the long-term immune response to immunisation. From the results of these studies it was possible to establish that the A/J mouse is a consistent and robust small animal model for rPA vaccine testing. A comparison of the immune response to rPA vaccine immunisation in the Turner Outbred (TO) mouse strain was also conducted. Both inbred and outbred mouse strains displayed a predominantly Th2 biased immune response and showed a comparable antibody response to rPA immunisation. An assessment of protection in the TO mouse against aerosol challenge with the fully virulent strain of B. anthracis, Ames, was also made.
Calculation of liver-to-blood inocula, parasite growth rates, and preerythrocytic vaccine efficacy, from serial quantitative polymerase chain reaction studies of volunteers challenged with malaria sporozoites.	We calculated the number and growth rate of Plasmodium falciparum parasites emerging in recipients of candidate preerythrocytic malaria vaccines and unvaccinated control subjects undergoing mosquito-bite challenge. This was done to measure vaccine efficacy and to distinguish the effects on blood-stage multiplication from those on liver-stage parasites. Real-time polymerase chain reaction measurements of parasite densities were analyzed by nonlinear regression and mixed-effects models. Substantial reductions in numbers of liver parasites resulted from the use of 2 immunization regimens: FP9 boosted by modified virus Ankara (MVA) encoding the malaria epitope-thrombospondin-related adhesion protein insert (92% reduction) and RTS,S/AS02 used in heterologous prime-boost immunization regimens, with MVA encoding the circumsporozoite protein (97% reduction). Forty-eight-hour growth rates in blood from control subjects were not different from those in blood from any vaccination group (mean, 14.4-fold [95% confidence interval, 11-19-fold]).
Vaccine-induced protection against Borna disease in wild-type and perforin-deficient mice.	Borna disease virus (BDV) can persistently infect the central nervous system and induce CD8+ T-cell-mediated neurological disease in MRL mice. To determine whether specific immune priming would prevent disease, a prime-boost immunization protocol was established in which intramuscular injection of a recombinant parapoxvirus expressing BDV nucleoprotein (BDV-N) was followed by intraperitoneal infection with vaccinia virus expressing BDV-N. Immunized wild-type and perforin-deficient mice remained healthy after intracerebral infection with BDV and contained almost no virus in the brain at 5 weeks post-challenge. Immunization failed to induce resistance against BDV in mice lacking mature CD8+ T cells. Immunization of perforin-deficient mice with a poxvirus vector expressing mutant BDV-N lacking the known CD8+ T-cell epitope did not efficiently block multiplication of BDV in the brain and did not prevent neurological disease, indicating that vaccine-induced immunity to BDV in wild-type and perforin-deficient mice resulted from the action of CD8+ T cells.
Nasal peptide vaccination elicits CD8 responses and reduces viral burden after challenge with virulent murine cytomegalovirus.	Infection of BALB/c mice with murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) leads to CD8 cell responses to an immunodominant epitope YPHFMPTNL. We presented this epitope as a nasal peptide vaccine in combination with cholera toxin adjuvant, and evaluated immune responses and protection from MCMV challenge. Vaccination of naive mice generated elevated numbers of peptide-specific interferon-gamma-secreting splenocytes (median 80/million, range 60 to 490), compared to control mice (median 2/million, range -4.5 to 8; P=0.008, Mann-Whitney test). Twelve days after challenge with virulent MCMV, vaccinated mice had a 1.1 log(10) reduction in salivary gland viral titer compared to unvaccinated controls (5.36+/-0.24 vs. 6.42+/-0.12, mean +/-SD log(10) plaque-forming-units; P <0.001, t -test). Mice with chronic MCMV infection had consistent responses to the peptide (183+/-24/million interferon-gamma-secreting splenocytes). Nasal peptide vaccination during chronic infection boosted peptide-specific responses in two of four mice to >900/million interferon-gamma-secreting splenocytes. Nasal peptide vaccination was immunogenic in naïve and MCMV-infected mice, and reduced viral burden in naive mice after virulent MCMV challenge. The nasal route may be useful for peptide presentation by novel human vaccines.
Virus-like particle expression and assembly in plants: hepatitis B and Norwalk viruses.	Expression of vaccine antigens in plants and delivery via ingestion of transgenic plant material has shown promise in numerous pre-clinical animal studies and in a few clinical trials. A number of different viral antigens have been tested, and among the most promising are those that can assemble virus-like particles (VLP), which mimic the form of authentic virions and display neutralizing antibody epitopes. We have extensively studied plant expression, VLP assembly, and immunogenicity of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) and Norwalk virus capsid protein (NVCP). The HBsAg small protein (S protein) was found by TEM to assemble tubular membrane complexes derived from endoplasmic reticulum in suspension cultured cells of tobacco and soybean, and in potato leaf and tuber tissues. The potato material was immunogenic in mice upon delivery by ingestion. Here we describe the plant expression and immunogenicity of HBsAg middle protein (M protein or pre-S2 + S) which contains additional 55 amino acid pre-S2 region at N-terminus of the S protein. Plant-derived recombinant M protein provoked stronger serum antibody responses against HBsAg than did S protein when injected systemically in mice. We discuss implications for use of fusion proteins for enhanced immunogenicity and mucosal targeting of HBsAg, as well as delivery of heterologous fused antigens. NVCP expressed in plants assembled 38 nm virion-size icosahedral (T = 3) VLP, similar to those produced in insect cells. The VLP stimulated serum IgG and IgA responses in mice and humans when they were delivered by ingestion of fresh potato tuber. Here we show that freeze-drying of transgenic NVCP tomato fruit yielded stable preparations that stimulated excellent IgG and IgA responses against NVCP when fed to mice. However, the predominant VLP form in tomato fruit was the small 23 nm particle also observed in insect cell-derived NVCP.
Identification of a recombinant live attenuated respiratory syncytial virus vaccine candidate that is highly attenuated in infants.	Recombination technology can be used to create live attenuated respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) vaccines that contain combinations of known attenuating mutations.
Comparative long term immunogenicity of two recombinant hepatitis B vaccines and the effect of a booster dose given after five years in a low endemicity country.	Few data are available concerning the long term immunogenicity of the pediatric doses of hepatitis B vaccines given to preteenagers. The long term effect of the booster dose in teenagers is unknown. We evaluated the immunogenicity of 2 pediatric hepatitis vaccines after primary vaccination and after a booster dose.
The assessment of hookworm calreticulin as a potential vaccine for necatoriasis.	A vaccine against the human hookworm Necator americanus is urgently required to reduce hookworm-induced morbidity in endemic areas. In the present study, recombinant hookworm calreticulin, a nominated vaccine candidate, has been tested in mice. Mice given calreticulin had 43-49% fewer worms in their lungs, compared to non-vaccinated controls, following challenge infection with infective hookworm larvae. These levels of protection were achieved in the absence of adjuvant following intraperitoneal administration of three doses of 15 microg antigen. Antigen was also encapsulated in PLG microparticles. Encapsulated calreticulin elicited higher levels of anti-calreticulin IgG1 than free antigen but failed to induce protective immunity. The protection induced by free calreticulin was associated with low levels of serum IgE and moderate lung eosinophilia whilst administration of calreticulin-loaded microparticles was associated with high levels of serum IgE and higher lung eosinophil activity, suggesting that the classical Th2 phenotype may not always be associated with protective immunity, albeit in experimental necatoriasis.
Induction of active immune suppression by co-immunization with DNA- and protein-based vaccines.	Although immunization has been used for eliciting immune response, here we show that it can also induce immune suppression. When a DNA vaccine encoding a viral antigen such as the VP1 protein from the foot and mouth disease virus is administered together with its recombinant protein antigen or a viral preparation containing the same antigen, the immunized animals developed significantly reduced antigen-specific T cell-mediated responses and became impaired to subsequent rechallenge with the same antigen. The induction of immune suppression is mediated by suppressor T cells, as demonstrated by an adoptive transfer experiment and mixed lymphocyte reactions. The induction of immune suppression in immunized animals is also correlated with a shift of cytokine balance, as reflected by an elevated level of IL-10 and reduced level of IFN-gamma or IL-2. Hence, co-immunization with DNA- and protein-based vaccines may represent a novel means for inducing active suppression against untoward immunity.
Potency requirements of rabies vaccines administered intradermally using the Thai Red Cross regimen: investigation of the immunogenicity of serially diluted purified chick embryo cell rabies vaccine.	To determine the minimum vaccine potency per intradermal dose required to elicit an adequate immune response using the Thai Red Cross (TRC) regimen (2-2-2-0-1-1), healthy volunteers received 0.1 mL volumes of PCECV containing decreasing amounts of antigen. Subjects also received HRIG to evaluate potential interference with antibody production. Results indicated that when each 0.1 mL intradermal dose of PCECV contained antigen corresponding to 0.32 IU per intramuscular dose, every subject had titers above 0.5 IU/mL by day 14. These results confirm that the current World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations for vaccine potency (2.5 IU per intramuscular dose) are sufficient for use in the Thai Red Cross intradermal regimen.
Chimeric dengue 2 PDK-53/West Nile NY99 viruses retain the phenotypic attenuation markers of the candidate PDK-53 vaccine virus and protect mice against lethal challenge with West Nile virus.	Chimeric dengue serotype 2/West Nile (D2/WN) viruses expressing prM-E of WN NY99 virus in the genetic background of wild-type D2 16681 virus and two candidate D2 PDK-53 vaccine variants (PDK53-E and PDK53-V) were engineered. The viability of the D2/WN viruses required incorporation of the WN virus-specific signal sequence for prM. Introduction of two mutations at M-58 and E-191 in the chimeric cDNA clones further improved the viability of the chimeras constructed in all three D2 carriers. Two D2/WN chimeras (D2/WN-E2 and -V2) engineered in the backbone of the PDK53-E and -V viruses retained all of the PDK-53 vaccine characteristic phenotypic markers of attenuation and were immunogenic in mice and protected mice from a high-dose 10(7) PFU challenge with wild-type WN NY99 virus. This report further supports application of the genetic background of the D2 PDK-53 virus as a carrier for development of live-attenuated, chimeric flavivirus vaccines in general and the development of a chimeric D2/WN vaccine virus against WN disease in particular.
Efficient intranasal immunization of newborn mice with recombinant adenovirus expressing rotavirus protein VP4 against oral rotavirus infection.	Efficacy of passive protection of newborn mice against rotavirus infection by the rotavirus VP4 protein expressed by an adenoviral vector in mice was studied. The VP4 gene was inserted into the E1 region of adenoviral vector pJM17. Recombinant adenovirus Ad5N/VP4 was grown in 293 cells. Intramuscular (i.m.), oral or intranasal (i.n.) immunization of newborn mice with Ad5/VP4 resulted in appearance of VP4-specific antibodies. Specific IgG antibodies were detected in the serum and intestine specimens of i.m. vaccinated mice. Oral immunization elicited serum IgG antibodies and intestinal IgG and IgA antibodies. Compared with i.m. and oral applications, i.n. immunization led to higher levels of serum IgG and intestinal IgG and IgA antibodies. Pups were challenged twice with simian rotavirus SA11 strain orally at the days 7 and 8 after birth. Pups born to i.n. immunized dams achieved 100% protection from rotavirus-induced diarrhea after both challenges. The protection of pups born to orally immunized dams was 80%, while only 30% of pups born to i.m. immunized dams were protected after both challenges. I.n. immunization was most efficient in inducing rotavirus VP4-specific serum, intestinal and milk IgG or IgA in mice that protected newborn mice completely.
Primate responses to a vaccinia-rabies glycoprotein recombinant virus vaccine.	Over the past decade, a vaccinia-rabies glycoprotein (V-RG) recombinant vaccine virus has been developed for the potential control of wildlife rabies through oral immunization via baits. Prior to widespread field applications in varying ecological settings, extensive laboratory safety testing is necessary in a number of target and non-target species to quantify real or perceived risks and to monitor potential adverse health effects. Moreover, in order to mitigate concerns over inadvertent human exposure to a vaccine targeted for environmental release and intended for wildlife consumption, it was necessary to document the safety of the vaccine in primates following direct consumption orally and indirectly through transdermal administration. In the ensuing study, no significant differences were observed in the comparative pathogenicity of vaccinia and vaccinia-recombinant viruses by intradermal scarification of squirrel monkeys. In addition, eight of eleven chimpanzees administered the V-RG vaccine (10(9) plaque forming units/ml) per os developed rabies virus-neutralizing antibodies. Sentinel chimpanzee controls and human animal handlers did not show evidence of virus exposure. No adverse health effects were noted in any experimental animals as a result of V-RG vaccine administration.
Modern approaches to development of vaccines against schistosomes.	Vaccination, as currently practiced, is a prophylactic procedure. A vaccine is given before exposure to the infectious agent, in order to induce a state of specific immunological memory within the recipient.
Comparison of the immune response of four different dosages of a yeast-recombinant hepatitis B vaccine in Singapore children: a four-year follow-up study.	The immunogenicity of four different dosages of yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine (Merck, Sharp & Dohme: 0.6 micrograms, 1.25 micrograms, 2.5 micrograms and 5.0 micrograms), administered at 0, 1 and 6 months (0-1-6 schedule) intramuscularly, was evaluated in 122 seronegative healthy children 1-12 years of age. Three months after the first dose, 83.9-100% of the vaccinees seroconverted. Peak geometric mean titres (GMT) of between 1088 mlU/ml and 1699 mlU/ml were attained 3 months after completion of the vaccination schedule. After 24 months, anti-HBs (antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen) was detected in 93.1-100% of the vaccinees, but the GMT dropped to between 214.3 mlU/ml and 303.5 mlU/ml. After 48 months, 88.8-100% of the vaccinees continued to possess anti-HBs and 70.3-87% had titres above 10 mlU/ml. As expected, the GMT declined further to between 72.6 mlU/ml and 118.8 mlU/ml. There were no significant differences in seroconversion rates and GMT among the different dosage groups. All the vaccinees remained asymptomatic and free from hepatitis B virus infection. The study showed that reduced dosages of the vaccine (0.6 micrograms, 1.25 micrograms and 2.5 micrograms) were as immunogenic as the standard dose (5 micrograms); the 2.5-micrograms dose was recommended for the national childhood immunization programme in Singapore. No booster is necessary for at least four years after vaccination.
Construction of a pigeonpox virus recombinant: expression of the Newcastle disease virus (NDV) fusion glycoprotein and protection of chickens against NDV challenge.	A pigeonpox transfer plasmid was constructed by cloning a 2.5 kb DNA fragment containing the viral thymidine kinase (TK) gene in the psp65 plasmid. The vaccinia virus P11K promoter followed by the NDV fusion (F) gene was inserted in the TK gene. The F gene was transferred to the viral genome by homologous recombination in pigeonpox virus infected CEF cells, transfected with the recombinant plasmid. Recombinant viruses were selected with BUdR and screened for their ability to induce fusion between adjacent cells. Because of the unexpected growth advantage of the TK+ WT over the TK- recombinants, viral purification was needed to obtain stable recombinants expressing a glycosylated and cleaved F protein. Vaccination of chickens by the follicular method induced high anti-F antibody titers and good protection against challenge with the virulent Italian NDV strain. Half of the oculonasal vaccinated chickens showed anti F antibodies and also half of them were protected. Although protection seems to be correlated with antibody titers, no neutralizing antibodies were found.
Safety of and immunological response to a recombinant vaccinia virus vaccine expressing HIV envelope glycoprotein.	In a randomised phase I trial of a recombinant vaccina virus vaccine expressing the gp160 envelope gene of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIVAC-1e) 35 healthy, HIV-seronegative males, 31 of whom had a history of smallpox immunisation and 4 of whom were vaccinia naive, were vaccinated and then boosted 8 weeks later with HIVAC-1e or standard NY strain vaccinia virus. The frequency, duration, and titre of virus isolation from the vaccination site and occurrence of local side-effects were similar between the two groups of vaccinees. Vaccinia-naive (vac-n) subjects shed virus from the vaccination site for longer and at a higher titre than did vaccinia-primed (vac-p) individuals (19 vs 7 days and 10(7) vs 10(5) pfu/ml, respectively). In-vitro T-cell proliferative responses to one or more HIV antigen preparations developed in 13 of 16 vaccinia-primed subjects inoculated with HIVAC-1e. T-cell responses were, however, transient and in no subject did antibodies to HIV become detectable. The 2 vaccinia-naive subjects vaccinated with HIVAC-1e showed strong T-cell responses to homologous and heterologous strains of whole virus and to recombinant gp160 protein that remained detectable for over a year; antibodies to HIV envelope also developed in both. Recombinant vaccinia virus vaccines induce T-cell priming to the foreign gene products in most individuals. If used as the sole immunising agent they will be most efficacious in vaccinia-naive individuals.
Immunogenicity and tolerance of ascending doses of a recombinant protective antigen (rPA102) anthrax vaccine: a randomized, double-blinded, controlled, multicenter trial.	We report the results of a phase I dose escalation, safety and immunogenicity trial of a new recombinant protective antigen (rPA102) anthrax vaccine.
Immune responses elicited by bacterial minicells capable of simultaneous DNA and protein antigen delivery.	Recent events surrounding emerging infectious diseases, bioterrorism and increasing multidrug antibiotic resistance in bacteria have drastically increased current needs for effective vaccines. Many years of study have shown that live, attenuated pathogens are often more effective at delivering heterologous protein or DNA to induce protective immune responses. However, these vaccine carriers have inherent safety concerns that have limited their development and their use in many patient populations. Studies using nonliving delivery mechanisms have shown that providing both protein antigen and DNA encoding the antigen to an individual induces an improved, more protective immune response but rarely, if ever, are both delivered simultaneously. Here, non-replicating bacterial minicells derived from a commensal E. coli strain are shown to effectively induce antigen-specific immune responses after simultaneous protein and DNA delivery. These data demonstrate the potential use of achromosomal bacterial minicells as a vaccine carrier.
Vaccination confers significant protection of sheep against infection with a virulent United Kingdom strain of Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis.	Using a virulent United Kingdom Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis isolate, an ovine experimental model of caseous lymphadenitis was developed, in which the manifestation of disease was equivalent to the naturally observed infection in this country. Subsequently, the capacity of several experimental vaccines to protect against experimental challenge was determined. Sheep were immunised with a recombinant derivative of phospholipase D, deriving from the virulent UK isolate, a formalin-killed bacterin of the same strain, or a bacterin supplemented with recombinant phospholipase D. Following homologous experimental challenge, the phospholipase D and bacterin vaccines were observed to confer statistically significant protection against infection, and appeared to restrict dissemination of challenge bacteria beyond the inoculation site in the majority of animals. More importantly, the combined vaccine succeeded in providing absolute protection against infection, whereby challenge bacteria were eradicated from all vaccinates. In addition to the experimental vaccines, a commercially available CLA vaccine, unlicensed for use in the European Union, was assessed for its capacity to protect against heterologous challenge. The vaccine conferred significant protection, although the dissemination of infection beyond the inoculation site was not restricted as it had been with the previous vaccines. However, no animals immunised with this vaccine manifested infection within the lungs; thus, a potentially important route of disease transmission was eliminated. The results of this study provide information pertinent to the development of an effective caseous lymphadenitis vaccination strategy in the UK.
Effect of recombinant canine distemper vaccine on antibody titers in previously vaccinated dogs.	Two canine distemper virus (CDV) vaccine types are currently commercially available: modified-live virus (MLV) vaccines and a canarypox recombinant CDV (rCDV) vaccine (Recombitek, Merial). This study compared the ability of the rCDV vaccine and MLV vaccines to significantly enhance (boost) the antibody response of previously immunized adult and juvenile dogs. A significant (fourfold or greater) increase in titer occurred in significantly more dogs revaccinated with Recombitek C-4 or Recombitek C-6 than with the MLV-CDV vaccines. This study demonstrates that Recombitek, the only vaccine for dogs containing rCDV, is more likely to significantly boost the CDV antibody response in previously vaccinated dogs than are the MLV-CDV vaccines. Because rCDV vaccine can boost the antibody titer of dogs previously vaccinated with an MLV vaccine, it can and should be used when core vaccines are readministered.
Increased tolerance of Litopenaeus vannamei to white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) infection after oral application of the viral envelope protein VP28.	It has been generally accepted that invertebrates such as shrimp do not have an adaptive immune response system comparable to that of vertebrates. However, in the last few years, several studies have suggested the existence of such a response in invertebrates. In one of these studies, the shrimp Penaeus monodon showed increased protection against white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) using a recombinant VP28 envelope protein of WSSV. In an effort to further investigate whether this increased protection is limited to P. monodon or can be extended to other penaeid shrimp, experiments were performed using the Pacific white shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei. As found with P. monodon, a significantly lower cumulative mortality for VP28-fed shrimp was found compared to the controls. These experiments demonstrate that there is potential to use oral application of specific proteins to protect the 2 most important cultured shrimp species, P. monodon and L. vannamei, against WSSV. Most likely, this increased protection is based on a shared and, therefore, general defence mechanism present in all shrimp species. This makes the design of intervention strategies against pathogens based on defined proteins a viable option for shrimp culture.
Recombinant vaccines based on translocated effector proteins of Salmonella Pathogenicity Island 2.	Attenuated live Salmonella enterica are useful carriers for the delivery of heterologous antigens for vaccination. Effector proteins translocated by type III secretion systems (T3SS) of Salmonella have been successfully utilized for antigen delivery. Here we investigated the use of effector proteins of the T3SS encoded by Salmonella Pathogenicity Island 2 (SPI2). We observed that the effector protein SseF is suitable for delivery of various fusion proteins with heterologous antigens. The efficiency of this carrier protein was demonstrated in vaccination experiments with fusion proteins with Listeria monocytogenes protective antigens. SseF can thus be used as a versatile vehicle for translocation of heterologous proteins for vaccination.
Subunit recombinant vaccine protects against monkeypox.	The smallpox vaccine Dryvax, a live vaccinia virus (VACV), protects against smallpox and monkeypox, but is contraindicated in immunocompromised individuals. Because Abs to VACV mediate protection, a live virus vaccine could be substituted by a safe subunit protein-based vaccine able to induce a protective Ab response. We immunized rhesus macaques with plasmid DNA encoding the monkeypox orthologs of the VACV L1R, A27L, A33R, and B5R proteins by the intradermal and i.m. routes, either alone or in combination with the equivalent recombinant proteins produced in Escherichia coli. Animals that received only DNA failed to produce high titer Abs, developed innumerable skin lesions after challenge, and died in a manner similar to placebo controls. By contrast, the animals vaccinated with proteins developed moderate to severe disease (20-155 skin lesions) but survived. Importantly, those immunized with DNA and boosted with proteins had mild disease with 15 or fewer lesions that resolved within days. DNA/protein immunization elicited Th responses and binding Ab titers to all four proteins that correlated negatively with the total lesion number. The sera of the immunized macaques recognized a limited number of linear B cell epitopes that are highly conserved among orthopoxviruses. Their identification may guide future efforts to develop simpler, safer, and more effective vaccines for monkeypox and smallpox.
Papillomavirus-like particles are an effective platform for amyloid-beta immunization in rabbits and transgenic mice.	Immunization with amyloid-beta (Abeta) prevents the deposition of Abeta in the brain and memory deficits in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), opening the possibility for immunotherapy of AD in humans. Unfortunately, the first human trial of Abeta vaccination was complicated, in a small number of vaccinees, by cell-mediated meningoencephalitis. To develop an Abeta vaccine that lacks the potential to induce autoimmune encephalitis, we have generated papillomavirus-like particles (VLP) that display 1-9 aa of Abeta protein repetitively on the viral capsid surface (Abeta-VLP). This Abeta peptide was chosen because it contains a functional B cell epitope, but lacks known T cell epitopes. Rabbit and mouse vaccinations with Abeta-VLP were well tolerated and induced high-titer autoAb against Abeta, that inhibited effectively assembly of Abeta(1-42) peptides into neurotoxic fibrils in vitro. Following Abeta-VLP immunizations of APP/presenilin 1 transgenic mice, a model for human AD, we observed trends for reduced Abeta deposits in the brain and increased numbers of activated microglia. Furthermore, Abeta-VLP vaccinated mice also showed increased levels of Abeta in plasma, suggesting efflux from the brain into the vascular compartment. These results indicate that the Abeta-VLP vaccine induces an effective humoral immune response to Abeta and may thus form a basis to develop a safe and efficient immunotherapy for human AD.
Immunopathology of RSV infection: prospects for developing vaccines without this complication.	Respiratory syncytial virus is the most important cause of lower respiratory tract infection in infants and young children. RSV clinical disease varies from rhinitis and otitis media to bronchiolitis and pneumonia. An increased incidence of asthma later in life has been associated with the more severe lower respiratory tract infections. Despite its importance as a pathogen, there is no licensed vaccine against RSV. This is due to a number of factors complicating the development of an effective and safe vaccine. The immunity to natural RSV infection is incomplete as re-infections occur in all age groups, which makes it challenging to design a protective vaccine. Second, the primary target population is the newborn infant, which has a relatively immature immune system and maternal antibodies that can interfere with vaccination. Finally, some vaccines have resulted in a predisposition for exacerbated pulmonary disease in infants, which was attributed to an imbalanced Th2-biased immune response, although the exact cause has not been elucidated. This makes it difficult to proceed with vaccine testing in infants. It is likely that an effective and safe vaccine needs to elicit a balanced immune response, including RSV-specific neutralising antibodies, CD8 T-cells, Th1/Th2 CD4 T-cells and preferably secretory IgA. Subunit vaccines formulated with appropriate adjuvants may be adequate for previously exposed individuals. However, intranasally delivered genetically engineered attenuated or vectored vaccines are currently most promising for newborns, as they are expected to induce a balanced immune response similar to that elicited to natural infection and not be subject to interference from maternal antibodies. Maternal vaccination may be the optimal strategy to protect the very young infants.
Immunogenicity of a recombinant malaria vaccine based on receptor binding domain of Plasmodium falciparum EBA-175.	Malaria parasites require specific receptor-ligand interactions to invade host erythrocytes. The 175 kDa Plasmodium falciparum erythrocyte binding antigen (EBA-175) binds sialic acid residues on glycophorin A to mediate erythrocyte invasion. The amino-terminal, conserved, cysteine-rich region of EBA-175, referred to as F2, contains receptor-binding sites. We propose to develop a recombinant malaria vaccine based on region F2. Recombinant P. falciparum region F2 (PfF2) was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified from inclusion bodies under denaturing conditions by metal affinity chromatography, renatured by oxidative refolding and purified further by ion-exchange and gel filtration chromatography. Recombinant PfF2 was characterized and shown to be pure, homogeneous and functionally active in that it binds human erythrocytes with specificity. The immunogenicity of recombinant PfF2 formulated with three human compatible adjuvants, namely, Montanide ISA720, AS02A and alum was tested in mice. All the formulations tested elicited high titer antibodies that block erythrocyte invasion in vitro. The AS02 formulation yielded sera with the highest end-point ELISA titers followed by Montanide ISA720 and alum. Analysis of cellular immune responses indicated that all formulations resulted in significant splenocyte proliferation. Analysis of cytokines secreted by proliferating splenocytes indicated that all the adjuvant formulations tested induced Th1 type responses. These results suggest that recombinant PfF2 formulated with human compatible adjuvants is immunogenic and can elicit high titer invasion inhibitory antibodies providing support for further clinical development of this promising vaccine candidate.
Adjuvant activity of polymer microparticles and Montanide ISA 720 on immune responses to Plasmodium falciparum MSP2 long synthetic peptides in mice.	The purpose of this work was to test the immunogenicity in C57BL mice of two synthetic peptides derived from the constant region of 3D7 and FC27 Plasmodium falciparum MSP2 dimorphic proteins, either microencapsulated into poly-lactide-co-glycolide acid microparticles (PLGA MP) or delivered with the human compatible adjuvant Montanide ISA 720 for comparison. Potent and prolonged antibody responses were obtained for both peptides by using PLGA MP formulations after subcutaneous or intradermal injections. As compared to the subcutaneous route of immunization, the intradermal route induced greater immune responses. Montanide adjuvant was effective in eliciting antibodies against the 3D7 peptide but not against the FC27 peptide. Peptide-specific cytophilic antibodies (IgG2a) were detected after boosting with homologous peptide for all vaccine formulations. MP formulations elicited a lower IgE secretion as compared to that observed for both Montanide formulated vaccines. Our results demonstrate the ability of the polymer microparticles to overcome the lack of immunogenicity of FC27 MSP2 peptide in C57BL mice and their potential to induce desirable immune responses against malaria.
Intranasal vaccination with recombinant outer membrane protein CD and adamantylamide dipeptide as the mucosal adjuvant enhances pulmonary clearance of Moraxella catarrhalis in an experimental murine model.	Moraxella catarrhalis causes acute otitis media in children and lower respiratory tract infections in adults and elderly. In children the presence of antibodies against the highly conserved outer membrane protein CD correlates with protection against infection, suggesting that this protein may be useful as a vaccine antigen. However, native CD is difficult to purify, and it is still unclear if recombinant CD (rCD) is a valid alternative. We performed a side-by-side comparison of the immunogenicities and efficacies of vaccine formulations containing native CD and rCD with adamantylamide dipeptide as the mucosal adjuvant. Intranasal vaccination of mice stimulated the production of high CD-specific antibody titers in sera and of secretory immunoglobulin A in mucosal lavages, which cross-recognized both antigens. While vaccination with native CD increased the number of interleukin-2 (IL-2)- and gamma interferon-producing cells, rCD mainly stimulated IL-4-secreting cells. Nevertheless, efficient bacterial clearance was observed in the lungs of challenged mice receiving native CD and in the lungs of challenged mice receiving rCD (96% and 99%, respectively). Thus, rCD is a promising candidate for incorporation in vaccine formulations for use against M. catarrhalis.
Protection of Procambarus clarkii against white spot syndrome virus using recombinant oral vaccine expressed in Pichia pastoris.	The potential for oral vaccination of crayfish against white spot syndrome virus was investigated. The envelope proteins VP19 and VP28 were expressed in yeast (Pichia pastoris). The expressed proteins were used as oral vaccines in different forms viz., in whole culture form, whole culture sonicated form, whole culture centrifuged supernatant form, and cell residue form. The recombinant proteins were mixed with food pellets and fed to crayfish for 25 days. The vaccinated groups were divided into two even groups and challenged on the 3rd and 21st day of post vaccination. Among different vaccine groups the relative percent survival (RPS) values of sonicated form and supernatant form vaccines were found the best and met the criterion (>RPS 60%) of effective vaccine even after 21st day of post vaccination. Development of vaccine by using recombinant proteins VP19 and VP28 in yeast as expression vector was feasible with significant effects.
Oral administration of a Salmonella enterica-based vaccine expressing Bacillus anthracis protective antigen confers protection against aerosolized B. anthracis.	Bacillus anthracis is the causative agent of anthrax, a disease that affects wildlife, livestock, and humans. Protection against anthrax is primarily afforded by immunity to the B. anthracis protective antigen (PA), particularly PA domains 4 and 1. To further the development of an orally delivered human vaccine for mass vaccination against anthrax, we produced Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium expressing full-length PA, PA domains 1 and 4, or PA domain 4 using codon-optimized PA DNA fused to the S. enterica serovar Typhi ClyA and under the control of the ompC promoter. Oral immunization of A/J mice with Salmonella expressing full-length PA protected five of six mice against a challenge with 10(5) CFU of aerosolized B. anthracis STI spores, whereas Salmonella expressing PA domains 1 and 4 provided only 25% protection (two of eight mice), and Salmonella expressing PA domain 4 or a Salmonella-only control afforded no measurable protection. However, a purified recombinant fusion protein of domains 1 and 4 provided 100% protection, and purified recombinant 4 provided protection in three of eight immunized mice. Thus, we demonstrate for the first time the efficacy of an oral S. enterica-based vaccine against aerosolized B. anthracis spores.
Oral vaccination with modified vaccinia virus Ankara attached covalently to TMPEG-modified cationic liposomes overcomes pre-existing poxvirus immunity from recombinant vaccinia immunization.	Development of a safe and effective vaccine for induction of mucosal immunity to the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) envelope glycoprotein (Env, gp160) represents the best hope for containing the spread of an HIV epidemic worldwide. The highly attenuated modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) is a laboratory virus well suited as a safe vaccine vector. However, the presence of pre-existing immunity to Vaccinia virus in the adult population represents a hindrance that limits the application of the MVA vector for inducing immunity to HIV antigens. Here, cationic liposomes were covalently attached to the surface of recombinant MVA expressing the HIV-1 strain IIIB Env glycoprotein and beta-galactosidase (MVA(IIIB/beta-gal)) using tresylmonomethoxypolyethylene glycol (TMPEG) grafted into a lipid membrane without compromising viral infectivity in vitro and in vivo. The orally administered MVA(IIIB/beta-gal)-TMPEG/liposome complexes were capable of delivering the transgenes to mucosal tissues in mice with pre-existing poxvirus immunity based on beta-galactosidase gene expression in intestinal tissues measured 18 h after infection. Importantly, the MVA(IIIB/beta-gal)-TMPEG/liposome complexes enhanced Env-specific cellular and humoral immune responses in the mucosal and systemic tissues after repeated oral immunization of BALB/c mice. This approach may prove useful for induction of protective immunity against infectious diseases and cancer in populations with pre-existing immunity to vaccinia from smallpox vaccination.
B5-deficient vaccinia virus as a vaccine vector for the expression of a foreign antigen in vaccinia immune animals.	Recombinant vaccinia viruses have shown promise as vaccine vectors. However, their effectiveness is markedly reduced by pre-existing anti-vaccinia immunity. The possibility of new vaccinia immunizations in the event of a bioterror-related smallpox release poses an additional negative impact on the utility of vaccinia-based vectors. Thus, we aimed to design a vaccinia vector that would enhance the immune response to an expressed foreign protein in a pre-immune animal model. To do this, we made use of the finding that most neutralizing antibodies against the extracellular form of vaccinia virus are directed against the B5 protein. We found that mice immunized with vaccinia, primed with Gag plasmid DNA, and boosted with a recombinant vaccinia virus lacking the majority of the B5 ectodomain expressing a test antigen, HIV Gag, had stronger anti-Gag immune responses than mice that were boosted with a wild-type virus-expressing Gag. These findings are particularly striking given the more attenuated phenotype of this virus, as compared to its wild-type counterpart. Importantly, we found that vaccination with a B5R deletion virus, followed by boosting with the Gag-expressing virus lacking the majority of the B5 ectodomain, resulted in poorer anti-Gag immune responses. Thus, recombinant vaccinia viruses lacking the B5 ectodomain may serve as vaccine vectors in DNA prime-vaccinia boost vaccinations of individuals with pre-existing immunity against vaccinia. These data open the possibility of extending the potential benefit of replication competent recombinant vaccinia virus vectors to a larger population.
Mucosal delivery of a pneumococcal vaccine using Lactococcus lactis affords protection against respiratory infection.	Economical and effective vaccines against Streptococcus pneumoniae (pneumococcus) are needed for implementation in poorer countries where the disease burden is highest. Here, we evaluated Lactococcus lactis intracellularly producing the pneumococcal surface protein A (PspA) as a mucosal vaccine in conferring protection against pneumococcal disease.
The characteristics of the reactogenicity and immunological activity of a new cholera bivalent chemical vaccine based on the results of controlled trials]	The reactogenic properties and immunological potency of modified cholera chemical vaccine (choleragen-toxoid + O-antigens Inaba and Ogawa) were tested in 278 volunteers aged 18 years and over in comparison with those of a commercial batch of monovalent cholera vaccine (choleragen-toxoid + O-antigen Inaba). The cholera vaccine, enriched with O-antigen Ogawa, was found to be safe; vaccination with this vaccine was not accompanied by the development of systemic and local reactions whose frequency and intensity met the requirements for the reactogenic properties of commercial cholera vaccine. The immunological potency of the bivalent vaccine with respect to strain Inaba was not inferior to that of the commercial vaccine; at the same time in persons immunized with the new preparation the titers of vibriocidal antibodies to strain of serovar Inaba were five-fold higher. The conclusion on the expediency of using cholera chemical vaccine enriched with O-antigen Ogawa was made.
Protection of BALB/c mice from respiratory syncytial virus infection by immunization with a synthetic peptide derived from the G glycoprotein.	A synthetic peptide homologous to amino acids 174-187 of the G glycoprotein of the A2 strain of human respiratory syncytial (RS) virus (G/174-187) was shown to induce protection from live virus challenge of BALB/c mice after immunization with three doses of 50 micrograms of peptide coupled to keyhole limpet hemocyanin. Immunized mice showed high levels of circulating RS-specific antibodies as detected by ELISA assay; however, no neutralizing antibodies were found. Moreover, an important short-term cytotoxic T-cell response was observed with lymphocytes isolated from the lungs but not from the spleen of immunized mice. This response was lost 24 weeks after immunization; however, mice remained protected against challenge with live RS virus. In addition, a monoclonal antibody that specifically binds to peptide G/174-187 was found efficient in conferring passive protection from challenge: this data further supports our results on the importance of the 174-187 region in protection. Another peptide, spanning amino acids 144 to 159, was shown to induce neutralizing antibodies but did not confer protection.
Gorse GJ, et al. "Immunogenicity and tolerance of ascending doses of a recombinant protective antigen (rPA102) anthrax vaccine: a randomized, double-blinded, controlled, multicenter trial" [Vaccine 24 (2006) 5950-5959].	In the study reported by Gorse et al. a unique, educational opportunity was lost. The vaccine and biodefense communities almost experienced the rare chance in a Phase I study to scientifically compare head-to-head an early-stage, investigational recombinant anthrax vaccine (rPA102) with the safe, effective and already FDA-licensed anthrax vaccine, AVA (BioThrax). The authors take a stab at making safety and immunogenicity comparisons between the candidate vaccine and AVA (BioThrax) but the study design and analytical approach makes this inappropriate. Inaccurate and poorly substantiated editorial comments in the paper's introduction compound these methodological problems. The reader is presented with a series of false and misleading statements about AVA (BioThrax). Out-of-date sources are relied upon and these references are offered to the reader as the best evidence available when more current papers with up-to-date information and data exist. Additionally, the conclusions in several original contributions are misrepresented in this paper by Gorse et al. Issues with protocol and bias notwithstanding, the single most compelling observation from this trial could be that the response of those subjects in this study population (n=19) who received AVA on the altered schedule and route of two doses of AVA (BioThrax) delivered intramuscularly (IM) in just 4 weeks mounted a robust immune response. Given the more than 30 year history of the safe and effective use of AVA (BioThrax) as well as the more current data on AVA (BioThrax) a strong case can be made for continued funding to investigate the feasibility of adding another route of delivery (IM) and optimizing the schedule for this already FDA-licensed vaccine.
The utility of ISCOMATRIX adjuvant for dose reduction of antigen for vaccines requiring antibody responses.	The capacity of an adjuvant to reduce the amount of antigen required in vaccines would be beneficial in a variety of settings, including situations where antigen is difficult or expensive to manufacture, or in situations where demand exceeds production capacity, such as pandemic influenza. The ability to reduce antigen dose would also be a significant advantage in combination vaccines, and vaccines that by necessity must contain multiple antigens to accommodate variability between strains or genotypes. ISCOMATRIX adjuvant was compared to aluminium hydroxide adjuvant (Al(OH3)) for induction of antibody responses and dose sparing of a recombinant HIV gp120 vaccine. Neutralising antibody responses were significantly greater, at the same protein dose, when the gp120 protein was formulated with ISCOMATRIX adjuvant compared to Al(OH3). Moreover, strong responses were achieved with up to 100-fold lower doses of gp120 using ISCOMATRIX adjuvant. Therefore, ISCOMATRIX adjuvant has the potential to substantially reduce the dose of antigen required in human vaccines, without compromising the immune response.
Immunogenicity, reactogenicity and safety of two-dose versus three-dose (standard care) hepatitis B immunisation of healthy adolescents aged 11-15 years: a randomised controlled trial.	This trial assessed the immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity of a two-dose hepatitis B immunisation regimen (thiomersal-free Engerix-B 20 microg HBsAg doses 6 months apart) compared to the standard three-dose vaccination regimen (preservative-free Engerix-B 10 microg HBsAg doses, 0, 1, 6 month dose schedule) in healthy adolescents aged 11-15 years. Subjects were randomly assigned (2:1 ratio) to one of the two regimens (258 to the two-dose [20 microg] and 126 to the three-dose [10 microg] regimen) (Study ID 103860/280). One month after the final vaccine dose, the seroprotection (anti-HBs >or=10mIU/ml) rate in the two-dose (20 microg) group (233/241 individuals -96.7% seroprotected) was non-inferior to the seroprotection rate in the three-dose (10 microg) group (111/113 individuals -98.2% seroprotected). Both regimens were shown to be safe and well tolerated. Two doses of Engerix-B (20 microg HBsAg) could be considered as an alternative to standard three-dose Engerix-B (10 microg HBsAg) immunisation for adolescents aged 11-15 years.
Enteral vaccination of rats against Fasciola hepatica using recombinant cysteine proteinase (cathepsin L1).	Cysteine proteinases released by Fasciola hepatica play a key role in parasite feeding, migration through host tissues and in immune evasion. Hence, a recombinant cysteine proteinase (CPFhW) expressed as inclusion bodies in Escherichia coli was used for enteral vaccination of rats against fasciolosis. We managed to activate this proteinase and found it to have cathepsin L1-like substrate preference. Enteral vaccination of rats induced a 78-80% protection against challenge with fluke metacercariae (mc). The immunised rats showed clear immunological response. The challenge with mc caused a remarkable infiltration of eosinophils into the peritoneal cavity of both the vaccinated rats and challenge control rats. However, CD8+ and CD4+ lymphocytes appeared in significantly higher numbers in the peritoneal fluid of vaccinated rats than in controls.
Evaluation of recombinant BCG expressing rotavirus VP6 as an anti-rotavirus vaccine.	Recombinant BCG expressing rotavirus VP6 was explored as an anti-rotavirus vaccine in a mouse model. Three promoters and five ribosome-binding sites were used in episomal and integrative E. coli-mycobacterium shuttle vectors to express VP6 in BCG. The VP6 gene was configured for accumulation within the BCG cytoplasm, secretion from the BCG cell or targeting to the BCG cell membrane. Vectors were assessed in terms of stability, levels of antigen production, immunogenicity and protection in mice. Gross instability occurred in episomal vectors utilizing the hsp60 promoter. However, three integrative vectors using the same expression system and two episomal vectors using inducible promoters were successfully recovered from BCG. Growth rates of the former were not detectably reduced. Growth rates of the latter were considerably reduced, implying the existence of a significant metabolic load. In the absence of selection, loss rate of these plasmids was high. VP6 production levels (0.04-1.78% of total cytoplasmic protein) were on the lower end of the range reported for other rBCG. One episomal and one integrated vaccine reduced viral shedding in intraperitoneally vaccinated mice challenged with rotavirus. Compared to controls, infection-associated faecal shedding of virus was reduced by 66% and 62%, respectively. These protective vectors differ in promoter, ribosome-binding site and antigen production level, but both link the VP6 protein to the 19kDa lipoprotein signal sequence, suggesting that transport of VP6 to the BCG membrane is important for induction of a protective immune response. Protection occurred in the absence of detectable anti-rotavirus antibody in serum or faeces, implicating cellular immunity in protection.
Synthetic vaccine update: applying lessons learned from recent SPf66 malarial vaccine physicochemical, structural and immunological characterization.	The SPf66 synthetic malaria vaccine, developed and obtained almost 2 decades ago, represents the first approach towards developing a multi-antigenic, multi-stage synthetic malarial vaccine composed of subunits derived from different Plasmodium falciparum stage proteins. It is shown here that batches 03, 04, 05, 06, 07, 08, 09, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16 produced from a few milligrams to kilogram amounts and used in assays on monkeys and humans showed high reproducibility in physicochemical analysis. (1)H NMR two-dimensional studies also revealed high similarity, even in non-oxidized batches. Reproducibility was also high, especially in preclinical studies carried out on Aotus, clinical trials Phase I, IIa and IIb and field-studies carried out in La Tola, Rio Rosario (Colombia), Majadas (Venezuela), La Te (Ecuador), Ifakara (Tanzania) in which there was high antibody titer production, having similar population distribution when done with different batches. These results provide great support for peptide-synthesized vaccines containing minimal epitopes from protection-inducing antigens which have several advantages, such as low cost, safety, reproducibility, stability, being straightforwardly scaled-up from milligram to kilogram amounts; make them the vaccines of choice for the future in a worldwide attempt to scourge diseases such as malaria.
Smallpox subunit vaccine produced in Planta confers protection in mice.	We report here the in planta production of the recombinant vaccinia virus B5 antigenic domain (pB5), an attractive component of a subunit vaccine against smallpox. The antigenic domain was expressed by using efficient transient and constitutive plant expression systems and tested by various immunization routes in two animal models. Whereas oral administration in mice or the minipig with collard-derived insoluble pB5 did not generate an anti-B5 immune response, intranasal administration of soluble pB5 led to a rise of B5-specific immunoglobulins, and parenteral immunization led to a strong anti-B5 immune response in both mice and the minipig. Mice immunized i.m. with pB5 generated an antibody response that reduced virus spread in vitro and conferred protection from challenge with a lethal dose of vaccinia virus. These results indicate the feasibility of producing safe and inexpensive subunit vaccines by using plant production systems.
Complete protection of mice against a lethal dose challenge of western equine encephalitis virus after immunization with an adenovirus-vectored vaccine.	Western equine encephalitis virus (WEEV) is an important pathogen for both humans and equines. The virus is also listed as a bioterrorism agent due to its ability for aerosol transmission with high mortality. No commercial vaccines or antiviral drugs are available for the prevention and treatment of WEEV infection in humans. In this paper, we constructed a recombinant WEEV vaccine, designated as Ad5-WEEV, using a replication defective, human adenovirus serotype 5 (HAd5) as a delivery vector. Ad5-WEEV contains the E3-E2-6K-E1 structural protein gene of the 71V-1658 strain of WEEV and the E1 and E2 proteins were synthesized in cells inoculated with Ad5-WEEV. After intramuscular immunization of mice with two doses of Ad5-WEEV, neutralizing antibodies against WEEV were generated and the mice were completely protected from a lethal dose challenge of 71V-1658. In addition, we showed that passive transfer of serum from the Ad5-WEEV-immunized mice could partially control WEEV infection. These results demonstrate that HAd5 vectors are promising for WEEV vaccine development.
Recombinant gp120 vaccine-induced antibodies inhibit clinical strains of HIV-1 in the presence of Fc receptor-bearing effector cells and correlate inversely with HIV infection rate.	Nonneutralizing Abs may play a role in protecting animals and humans from lentiviral infections. We explored the Ab-dependent, cell-mediated virus inhibition (ADCVI) Ab response to recombinant gp120 (rgp120) vaccination in sera from 530 participants in the Vax 004 trial. Serum ADCVI activity was measured against a clinical R5 strain of HIV-1 using peripheral blood mononuclear effector cells from healthy donors. The level of vaccine-induced ADCVI activity correlated inversely with the rate of acquiring HIV infection following vaccination, such that for every 10% increase in ADCVI activity, there was a 6.3% decrease in the hazard rate of infection (p=0.019). Some vaccinated individuals also mounted an ADCVI response against two other clinical R5 strains of HIV-1. However, ADCVI activity correlated poorly with neutralizing or CD4-gp120-blocking Ab activity measured against laboratory strains. Finally, the degree to which the ADCVI Ab response predicted the rate of infection was influenced by polymorphisms at the FcgammaRIIa and FcgammaRIIIa gene loci. These data indicate that rgp120 vaccination can elicit Abs with antiviral activity against clinical strains of HIV-1. However, such activity requires the presence of FcR-bearing effector cells. Our results provide further evidence that ADCVI may play a role in preventing HIV infection.
Effects of homologous and heterologous neuraminidase vaccines in chickens against H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza.	The 2004 Asian H5N1 epizootic outbreak indicates the urgent need for vaccines against highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus. The manufacture of inactivated whole-virus vaccines from HPAI viruses by traditional methods is not feasible for safety reasons as well as technical issues. The low pathogenic avian influenza A/wild bird feces/CSM2/02 (H5N3) virus was used as a heterologous neuraminidase vaccine, and HPAI A/CK/Korea/ES/03 (H5N1) virus was used as a homologous neuraminidase vaccine. Protection efficacy of both vaccines was evaluated by clinical signs, mortality rates, and virus shedding from oropharynx and cloaca of vaccinated chickens after challenge with HPAI A/CK/Korea/ES/03 (H5N1) virus. One dose of 128 hemagglutinin (HA) homologous H5N1 vaccine induced 100% protection in mortality and prevented viral shedding completely after lethal dose virus challenge, whereas one dose of 64 HA unit of heterologous H5N3 vaccine only induced 50% protection in mortality, and it did not prevent viral shedding. However, two doses at a 3-wk interval of 64 HA unit of heterologous H5N3 vaccine as well as one dose of 1024 HA unit of heterologous H5N3 vaccine induced 100% survival rate and could prevent viral shedding completely. Furthermore, we could differentiate the sera of infected birds from those of vaccinated birds by indirect immunofluorescent antibody test. These results suggest that heterologous neuraminidase H5N3 vaccine could be a useful tool for the control of H5N1 HPAI epidemic in poultry.
Prophylactic use of ceftriaxone in combination with F I antigen immunization in studies on uninbred albino mice infected by Yersinia pestis. Antiplague immunity development]	Administration of highly immunogenic (ED50 12.6 mcg/mouse) F I antigen (100 mcg/mouse) to albino mice 5 hours after their contamination approximately with 1000 LD50 of Yersinia pestis 231 provided 99-percent survival of same animals (17-50%) and 2-5-day prolongation of the life-span, that was indicative of the phenomenon analogous to the survival phenomenon observed in infected animals immunized by immunogenic strains of the plague microbe. The experiment on the mice confirmed high efficacy of ceftriaxone (100-percent survival) when used prophylactically for 5 days 5 hours after the contamination by Y. pestis 231 (approximately 1000 LD50) in the dose equivalent to the daily dose for humans. However, no antiplague immunity developed in the survivors: the immunity index (II) of 1.5x10. The use of ceftriaxone according to the same scheme simultaneously with single immunization by F I antigen in a dose of 100 mcg/mouse resulted not only in 100-percent survival of the animals but also in development of expressing antiplague immunity (II 2.2x10(5)). The protection level corresponded to the control with the same live-stock of the animals after a single immunization in the analogous dose of F I antigen (II 3.2x10(4)) and the ceftriaxone use (II 1.0x10(5)), as well as after immunization of the mice by 10(6) microbial cells of Y. pestis EV NIIEG (II 1.2x10(5)). The results of the study are indicative of the prospective use of subsingle vaccines of the new generation based on F I antigen for combined specific and urgent prophylaxis.
Immunisation of staff of a regional blood transfusion centre with a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine.	Medical, nursing, laboratory and other staff of the Mersey Regional Blood Transfusion Centre at risk of acquiring hepatitis B were vaccinated against the virus with a recombinant vaccine. Altogether, 86% staff developed greater than 10 mIU/ml antibody to hepatitis B virus surface antigen after immunisation but the proportion was lower in older staff. After a further injection of vaccine was given to poor and non-responders the overall proportion responding rose to 93%. The difference in response between the sexes was significant. Women had a higher rate of response and, among those persons responding, women developed a higher concentration of antibody.
Intradermal vaccination against hepatitis B in a group of medical students.	A prospective study of a low-dose (one-tenth) intradermal regimen using recombinant hepatitis B vaccine was undertaken during two consecutive years in 4th-year medical students. Eighty-one per cent of the vaccinees (123/152) sero-converted with anti-HBs levels of greater than 10 IU/l. The lower titre of hepatitis B surface antibodies compared with published studies on intramuscular immunisation, together with a sero-conversion rate of only 81%, makes the intradermal method, in our opinion, a suboptimal form of hepatitis B immunisation.
Immunogenicity, reactogenicity and comparison of two doses of recombinant DNA yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine in Ethiopian children.	Hepatitis B virus infection and its sequelae, chronic hepatitis, cirrhosis of the liver and primary hepatocellular carcinoma (PHC), are important medical problems in Ethiopia. There is a possibility to prevent these by mass immunization of neonates and children. To achieve this, the cost of the hepatitis B vaccine must be possible within the limited health budget of the country. This study, therefore, was conducted to find out comparative safety and immunogenicity of two doses, 10 mcg and 20 mcg, of recombinant DNA yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine in children, 2-14 years old. Three hundred and fourteen non-immune children, from an initial sample of 380 children, were grouped into those below and those above 8 years of age. Each group was further subdivided into boys and girls and each group was given either 10 mcg or 20 mcg hepatitis B vaccine, alternately, using the 0-1-6 months schedule. Anti-HBs titres were determined at one, two and seven months. Side effects were recorded by parents for three days following each injection. Comparison of seroconversion rates (97-100%) and anti-HBs geometric mean titres (3421-6336) of boosted vaccinees in the different sex, age and dose groups showed no significant differences. There were minor side effects recorded in 76 children. Therefore, the 10 mcg and 20 mcg doses of recombinant DNA yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine are equally safe and highly immunogenic in children 3-14 years of age.
Protection against lethal Sendai virus infection by in vivo priming of virus-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes with a free synthetic peptide.	The only peptide of Sendai virus that is recognized by cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL) in B6 mice was found with (i) the use of recombinant vaccinia virus constructs containing separate genes of Sendai virus and (ii) a set of overlapping peptides completely spanning the identified nucleoprotein (NP) gene product. This immunodominant NP peptide is recognized by Sendai virus-specific CTL that are known to have therapeutic effects in vivo. By subcutaneous immunization, this peptide induced Sendai virus and NP peptide-specific CTL memory responses in vivo. Most importantly, mice that had been immunized with this peptide were protected against a lethal virus dose, indicating that viral peptides can be used as antiviral T-cell vaccines. The induction of T-cell memory by free peptide immunization potentially has wide applicability in biology and medicine, including protection against infectious disease.
A single immunization with a dry powder anthrax vaccine protects rabbits against lethal aerosol challenge.	Here we confirm that intranasal (IN) dry powder anthrax vaccine formulations are able to protect rabbits against aerosol challenge 9 weeks after a single immunization. The optimum dose of rPA in our dry powder anthrax vaccine formulation in rabbits was experimentally determined to be 150microg and therefore was chosen as the target dose for all subsequent experiments. Rabbits received a single dose of either 150microg rPA, 150microg rPA+150microg of a conjugated 10-mer peptide representing the Bacillus anthracis capsule (conj), or 150microg of conj alone. All dry powder formulations contained MPL and chitosan (ChiSys). Significant anti-rPA titers and anthrax lethal toxin neutralizing antibody (TNA) levels were seen with both rPA containing vaccines, although rPA-specific IgG and TNA levels were reduced in rabbits immunized with rPA plus conj. Nine weeks after immunization, rabbits were exposed to a mean aerosol challenge dose of 278 LD50 of Ames spores. Groups immunized with rPA or with rPA+conj had significant increases in survivor proportions compared to the negative control group by Logrank test (p=0.0001 and 0.003, respectively), and survival was not statistically different for the rPA and rPA+conj immunized groups (p=0.63). These data demonstrate that a single immunization with our dry powder anthrax vaccine can protect against a lethal aerosol spore challenge 9 weeks later.
Protective activity and immunogenicity of two recombinant anthrax vaccines for veterinary use.	In this study, the efficacy of two experimental vaccines against Bacillus anthracis toxinaemia was evaluated in the rabbit model. A recombinant Protective Antigen (rPA) mutant and a trivalent vaccine (TV) composed by the rPA, a inactive mutant of Lethal Factor (mLF-Y728A; E735A) and a inactive mutant of Edema Factor (mEF-K346R), both emulsified with mineral oils, were evaluated for their immunogenicity and protective activity in New Zealand white rabbits. Rabbits vaccinated subcutaneously with rPA and TV rapidly produced high level of anti-PA, anti-LF and anti-EF antibodies, which were still present 6 months later. In the efficacy test, these vaccines protected 100% of rabbits challenged with B. anthracis virulent strain 0843 one week after the vaccination. Moreover, all animals vaccinated twice with rPA and TV, resisted B. anthracis infection 6 months later. Our data indicate that rPA and TV could be good vaccine candidates for inducing protection against B. anthracis infection in target animal host. They could successfully be used in an emergency with simultaneous long-acting antibiotics to halt incubating infections or during an anthrax epidemic.
Oral immunization with recombinant Lactococcus lactis confers protection against respiratory pneumococcal infection.	In the present work, we evaluated if oral immunization with the pneumococcal protective protein A (PppA), expressed in the cell wall of Lactococcus lactis (L. lactis PppA+), was able to confer protective immunity against Streptococcus pneumoniae. Mice were immunized orally with L. lactis PppA+ for 5 consecutive days. Vaccination was performed one (nonboosted group) or 2 times with a 2 week interval between each immunization (boosted group). Oral priming with L. lactis PppA+ induced the production of anti-PppA IgM, IgG, and IgA antibodies in serum and in bronchoalveolar (BAL) and intestinal (IF) lavage fluids. Boosting with L. lactis PppA+ increased the levels of mucosal and systemic immunoglobulins. Moreover, the avidity and the opsonophagocytic activity of anti-PppA antibodies were significantly improved in the boosted group. The presence of both IgG1 and IgG2a anti-PppA antibodies in serum and BAL and the production of both interferon gamma and interleukin-4 by spleen cells from immunized mice indicated that L. lactis PppA+ stimulated a mixture of Th1 and Th2 responses. The ability of L. lactis PppA+ to confer cross-protective immunity was evaluated using challenge assays with serotypes 3, 6B, 14, and 23F. Lung bacterial cell counts and hemocultures showed that immunization with L. lactis PppA+ improved resistance against all the serotypes assessed, including serotype 3, which was highly virulent in our experimental animal model. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of protection against respiratory pneumococcal infection induced by oral administration of a recombinant lactococcal vaccine.
Immunogenicity and safety of recombinant rabies viruses used for oral vaccination of stray dogs and wildlife.	Rabies is a zoonotic disease and stray dogs, wild carnivores and bats are the natural reservoirs of rabies. Oral immunization with live vaccines is the only practical approach to eradicate rabies in free ranging terrestrial animals. We have developed the double glycoprotein (G) rabies virus (RV) variant SPBNGAS-GAS that has great promise to be used as a live-attenuated vaccine. Oral immunization of rodents and several target animal species with this double G RV variant resulted in the induction of protective immunity, superior to that induced by a single RV G variant (SPBNGAS). The high oral efficacy of SPBNGAS-GAS is likely because of its increased ability to infect monocytes or immature dendritic cells (DCs), thereby inducing their conversion into mature DCs. Furthermore, infection of DCs with the double G variant resulted in a strong up-regulation of the expression of genes related to the NFjB signalling pathway including IFN-α and IFN-β, which might underlie the protection conferred by this live RV vaccine. A potential problem associated with the use of live RVs for oral vaccination could rest in the possibility of reversion to the pathogenic phenotype because of the high mutation rate characteristic for all RNA viruses. In this respect, the presence of a second non-pathogenic G gene decreases considerably the risk of reversion to the pathogenic phenotype because a nonpathogenic G is dominant over a pathogenic G in determining the pathogenicity of the double G RV variant. Because of its excellent efficacy and safety, the SPBNGAS-GAS vaccine may provide a distinct advantage over other live RV vaccine in its ability to vaccinate a broad range of mammalian species.
Antibody and immune memory persistence after vaccination of preadolescents with low doses of recombinant hepatitis B vaccine.	Little is known about the impact of low-dose hepatitis B vaccine on the persistence of anti-HBs and immune memory in school-age children. Recombivax-HB 2.5 μg (RB) has been widely used in school-age children. RB induces high seroprotectionrates, but relatively low anti-HBs titers. The main objectives of this phase of the study were to assess anti-HBs persistence and the presence of immune memory 10 years post-vaccination of 8-10 year-old children with 3 doses of RB and the persistence of anti-HBs post-booster dose administration 5 (Group A; n=250) or 10 years (Group B; n=263) post-vaccination. No significant difference was observed between GMTs and the proportion of subjects with anti-HBs titers ≥ 10 mIU/mL 5 or 10 years post-vaccination. In both groups, a 56-fold decrease of anti-HBs GMTs was observed. One month post-booster, all but two subjects in Group A had an anti-HBs titer ≥ 10 mIU/mL. A 4.9- and 11.4-fold decrease in anti-HBs GMTs were observed during the first year post-booster in Group A and B, respectively. One year post-booster, the two groups were equivalent: ≥ 98.8% of subjects had an anti-HBs ≥ 10 mIU/mL. In group A, five years post-booster, 96.8% had a titer ≥ 10 mIU/mL; the GMT was 17-fold higher than the GMT 5 years post-vaccination (p<0.0001). In both groups, there was a strong positive correlation (p<0.0001) between anti-HBs titers observed post-primary vaccination and at following study time points (r=0.70-0.90). Three doses of RB administered at the age of 8-10 years induce a 10 years long-lasting immunity in virtually all vaccinees. The booster does not appear necessary on a 10 years perspective.
Immunogenicity of viral vector, prime-boost SIV vaccine regimens in infant rhesus macaques: attenuated vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) and modified vaccinia Ankara (MVA) recombinant SIV vaccines compared to live-attenuated SIV.	In a previously developed infant macaque model mimicking HIV infection by breast-feeding, we demonstrated that intramuscular immunization with recombinant poxvirus vaccines expressing simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) structural proteins provided partial protection against infection following oral inoculation with virulent SIV. In an attempt to further increase systemic but also local antiviral immune responses at the site of viral entry, we tested the immunogenicity of different orally administered, replicating vaccines. One group of newborn macaques received an oral prime immunization with a recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus expressing SIVmac239 gag, pol and env (VSV-SIVgpe), followed 2 weeks later by an intramuscular boost immunization with MVA-SIV. Another group received two immunizations with live-attenuated SIVmac1A11, administered each time both orally and intravenously. Control animals received mock immunizations or non-SIV VSV and MVA control vectors. Analysis of SIV-specific immune responses in blood and lymphoid tissues at 4 weeks of age demonstrated that both vaccine regimens induced systemic antibody responses and both systemic and local cell-mediated immune responses. The safety and immunogenicity of the VSV-SIVgpe+MVA-SIV immunization regimen described in this report provide the scientific incentive to explore the efficacy of this vaccine regimen against virulent SIV exposure in the infant macaque model.
Vaccination against the hepatitis B virus in alcoholics]	The risk of hepatitis B virus infections is high among alcohol abusers, and vaccination has been evaluated in previous studies. However, the response has been low with the usual doses and schedules.
Immune response to hepatitis B vaccine produced with genetic engineering]	With the aim of evaluating the immune response obtained after the administration of the three standard doses of Hepatitis B vaccine obtained by recombinant DNA techniques (Engerix B) and the factors that may have an influence in it, we have studied 537 subjects belonging to different risk groups. The ratio of non-responders to the vaccine has been. We have found significant differences (p less than 0.001) when comparing the mean titers obtained amongst the groups of studied. We have observed a higher percentage amongst the non-responders in men, although there are not statistically significant differences between sexes. We compare the results obtained with those published by other groups.
An auxotrophic live oral Shigella flexneri vaccine: development and testing.	Through transduction, a wild-type strain of Shigella flexneri serotype Y (SFL1) was rendered auxotrophic and dependent on aromatic metabolites that are not available in mammalian tissues. Monkeys that were orally vaccinated with 10(11) bacteria of the transductant strain SFL114 remained healthy when challenged with 10(11) bacteria of wild-type strains of S. flexneri serotypes Y, 1b, and 2a. The safety and immunogenicity of SFL114 were next studied in volunteers who were given either 10(9) or 10(10) SFL114 bacteria orally. Mild intestinal discomfort that lasted for 1-2 days was reported by three (12%) of 25 volunteers given 10(9) live SFL114 bacteria and by 13 (54%) of 24 volunteers given 10(10) live SFL114 bacteria. A local intestinal secretory IgA response to the S. flexneri O-antigen was recorded. The in vitro and in vivo results suggest that the aroD transductant SFL114 possesses properties that are desirable in an oral live candidate vaccine.
Enhanced generation of cytotoxic T lymphocytes by heat shock protein 70 fusion proteins harboring both CD8(+) T cell and CD4(+) T cell epitopes.	Heat shock protein 70 (Hsp70) can be a potent carrier of antigens because it is effectively delivered to antigen presenting cells (APCs) and activates innate immunity. To induce a potent cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response, a Hsp70 fusion protein harboring both CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cell epitopes was developed based on the recent understanding of the importance of the role of CD4(+) T cells in inducing the CTL response following vaccination. OVA(257-264) (pepI) and OVA(323-339) (pepII) were selected as the CD8(+) and CD4(+) T cell epitope of a model antigen, ovalbumin (OVA), respectively. Hsp70 and its fusion proteins, Hsp70-pepI, pepII-Hsp70, Hsp70-pepII and pepII-Hsp70-pepI, were developed. pepII-Hsp70 and pepII-Hsp70-pepI were effectively presented on MHC class II of macrophages compared with Hsp70-pepII, suggesting that pepII conjugation to the N-terminus of Hsp70 is better than the C-terminus for more effective MHC class II antigen presentation. Immunization with pepII-Hsp70-pepI resulted in a higher CTL activity than immunization with the mixture of Hsp70-pepI and pepII-Hsp70. Furthermore, pepII-Hsp70-pepI exhibited a greater antitumor effect in the mice bearing EG7 tumor cells than the physical mixture of Hsp70-pepI and pepII-Hsp70. In addition, immunization with the DCs pulsed with the fusion proteins also suggested that APCs which present both pepI and pepII can induce the highest CTL generation. These results demonstrated that Hsp70 fusion protein harboring both pepI and pepII is a useful option for Hsp70-based antigen delivery systems.
Study on immunogenicity of a recombinant adenovirus vaccine containing neuraminidase gene of H5N1 influenza virus (A/Anhui/1/2005) in mice]	To investigate immunity of a recombinant adenovirus vaccine (rAdV) containing codon-modified neuraminidase (Mod. NA) gene of H5N1 influenza virus in BALB/c mice and to screen for appropriate dose.
The immunity and protective effects of antigen 85A and heat-shock protein X against progressive tuberculosis.	The anti-tuberculosis vaccine, Mycobacterium bovis BCG, has been used worldwide, but its protective efficacy is variable against adult pulmonary tuberculosis. In this study, immune responses of antigen 85A (Ag85A) and heat-shock protein X (HspX) antigen of Mycobacterium tuberculosis were investigated during acute and stationary stage of infection in the murine aerosol TB challenge model and their protective effects were evaluated against progressive tuberculosis. A high level of Ag85A-specific IFN-γ production was induced from the early stage of the infection, whereas HspX-specific IFN-γ production was increased in the later stationary stage. As a subunit vaccine, Ag85A and HspX antigen vaccine induced high levels of IFN-γ, and a vaccine comprising both antigens induced the highest level of IFN-γ. At 30 days post-challenge, the Ag85A subunit vaccine was protective against M. tuberculosis challenge, but the HspX subunit vaccine was not. Interestingly, the HspX antigen vaccine induced significant protective efficacy at 90 days post-challenge. Moreover, the combined antigen vaccine induced the highest protective efficacy against M. tuberculosis challenge both at 30 days and 90 days post-challenge. These results suggest that the vaccine comprising Ag85A and HspX antigen which react in different stages of infection is highly protective against progressive tuberculosis.
Cloning, expression and evaluation of the efficacy of a recombinant Haemaphysalis concinna Hc-23 antigen in rabbits.	Haemaphysalis concinna is wide spread in China, and negatively impacted on husbandry production and then resulted in severe economic losses. Methods available for the control of ticks are mainly based on chemotherapy. However, this approach is associated with a number of disadvantages; searching for alternative tick control measures is necessary and vaccination is one of the best control strategies. Through H. concinna Hc-23 gene PCR amplification, cloning and sequencing, sequence analysis showed that Hc-23 genes could be amplified in nymphal, larvae and adult ticks. BLAST analysis suggested that Hc-23 gene was 99.83% homology with P27/30 of Chinese strains H. longicornis, and 99.67% with Japanese strains, but 88.06% with Rhipicephalus tick troponin I gene. The recombinant Hc23 expressed in BL21(DE3) with Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA) was used to immunize 6 rabbits, then another 6 were immunized with PBS and 6 with control FCA (as control) were challenge-infested with ticks at different developmental stages of the same specie. The result showed that ticks that fed on rHc23-immunized rabbits were observed to feed longer compared to the control (P ≤ 0.05), the engorged body weights of ticks feeding on rHc23-immunized rabbits were lighter than the control (P ≤ 0.05), and an apparent reduction in laying amount was observed for adult ticks fed on rHc23-immunized rabbits (P ≤ 0.05). These results demonstrated that the Hc-23 protein might be a useful vaccine candidate antigen for biological control of ticks.
Prime immunization with rotavirus VLP 2/6 followed by boosting with an adenovirus expressing VP6 induces protective immunization against rotavirus in mice.	Rotavirus (RV) is the main cause of severe gastroenteritis in children. An effective vaccination regime against RV can substantially reduce morbidity and mortality. Previous studies have demonstrated the efficacy of virus-like particles formed by RV VP2 and VP6 (VLP2/6), as well as that of recombinant adenovirus expressing RV VP6 (rAd), in eliciting protective immunities against RV. However, the efficacy of such prime-boost strategy, which incorporates VLP and rAd in inducing protective immunities against RV, has not been addressed. We assessed the immune effects of different regimens in mice, including rAd prime-VLP2/6 boost (rAd+VLP), VLP2/6 prime-rAd boost (VLP+rAd), rAd alone, and VLP alone.
Construction and immunogenicity of a recombinant pseudotype baculovirus expressing the glycoprotein of rabies virus in mice.	A pseudotype baculovirus with the glycoprotein of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV-G) on the envelope was used as a vector for the construction of recombinant baculovirus expressing the G protein of rabies virus (RABV) under the cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter. The generated recombinant baculovirus (BV-G) efficiently expressed the RABV G proteins in mammalian cells. Intramuscular vaccination with BV-G (10(9) PFU/mouse) induced the production of RABV G-specific neutralizing antibodies and strong T cell responses in mice. Our data clearly indicate that pseudotype baculovirus-mediated gene delivery can be utilized as an alternative strategy to develop a new generation of vaccine against RABV infection.
Active immunization using a single dose immunotherapeutic abates established EAE via IL-10 and regulatory T cells.	Stimulation of Ag-specific inducible Treg can enhance resolution of autoimmune disease. Conventional methods to induce Treg often require induction of autoimmune disease or subjection to infection. Reovirus adhesin, protein σ1 (pσ1), can successfully facilitate tolerance when fused to a tolerogen. We tested whether myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) fused to pσ1 (MOG-pσ1) can stimulate Ag-specific Treg. We show that C57BL/6 mice treated nasally with MOG-pσ1 fail to induce MOG-specific Abs and delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH) responses and resist EAE. Such resistance was attributed to stimulation of Foxp3(+) Treg, as well as Th2 cells. MOG-pσ1's protective capacity was abrogated in IL-10(-/-) mice, but restored when adoptively transferred with MOG-pσ1-induced Treg. As a therapeutic, MOG-pσ1 diminished EAE within 24 h of nasal application, unlike recombinant MOG (rMOG), pσ1, or pσ1+rMOG, implicating the importance of Ag specificity by pσ1-based therapeutics. MOG-pσ1-treated mice showed elevated IL-4, IL-10, and IL-28 production by CD4(+) T cells, unlike rMOG treated or control mice that produced elevated IFN-γ or IL-17, respectively. These data show the feasibility of using pσ1 as a tolerogen platform for Ag-specific tolerance induction and highlight its potential use as an immunotherapeutic for autoimmunity.
Recombinant adenovirus serotype 26 (Ad26) and Ad35 vaccine vectors bypass immunity to Ad5 and protect nonhuman primates against ebolavirus challenge.	The use of adenoviruses (Ad) as vaccine vectors against a variety of pathogens has demonstrated their capacity to elicit strong antibody and cell-mediated immune responses. Adenovirus serotype C vectors, such as Ad serotype 5 (Ad5), expressing Ebolavirus (EBOV) glycoprotein (GP), protect completely after a single inoculation at a dose of 10(10) viral particles. However, the clinical application of a vaccine based on Ad5 vectors may be hampered, since impairment of Ad5 vaccine efficacy has been demonstrated for humans and nonhuman primates with high levels of preexisting immunity to the vector. Ad26 and Ad35 segregate genetically from Ad5 and exhibit lower seroprevalence in humans, making them attractive vaccine vector alternatives. In the series of studies presented, we show that Ad26 and Ad35 vectors generate robust antigen-specific cell-mediated and humoral immune responses against EBOV GP and that Ad5 immune status does not affect the generation of GP-specific immune responses by these vaccines. We demonstrate partial protection against EBOV by a single-shot Ad26 vaccine and complete protection when this vaccine is boosted by Ad35 1 month later. Increases in efficacy are paralleled by substantial increases in T- and B-cell responses to EBOV GP. These results suggest that Ad26 and Ad35 vectors warrant further development as candidate vaccines for EBOV.
Identification and characterization of protective epitope of Trichinella spiralis paramyosin.	Trichinella spiralis paramyosin (Ts-Pmy) is a protective antigen that induces partial immunity against T. spiralis infection in mice. To identify protective epitope of Ts-Pmy, a monoclonal antibody (mAb) 7E2 against the recombinant protein was generated, which partially protected against T. spiralis infection following passive transfer. The mAb was used to screen a random phage-displayed peptide library. Ten positive clones were identified, most of which matched amino acids 88-107 or 108-127 of Ts-Pmy. Expression of overlapping fragments of Ts-Pmy in E. coli confirmed that region 88-107 was specifically recognized by 7E2. A peptide based on this epitope region (YX1) was synthesized and shown to compete with native Ts-Pmy for binding to 7E2. Mice immunized with KLH-conjugated YX1 were protected against T. spiralis larval challenge. The identification of a protective epitope within Ts-Pmy highlights the possibility of developing a subunit vaccine against T. spiralis infection.
Inhibition of tumor angiogenesis in lung cancer by T4 phage surface displaying mVEGFR2 vaccine.	Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has been known as a potential vasculogenic and angiogenic factor and its receptor (VEGFR2) is a major receptor to response to the angiogenic activity of VEGF. The technique that to break the immune tolerance of "self-antigens" associated with angiogenesis is an attractive approach for cancer therapy with T4 phage display system. In this experiment, mouse VEGFR2 was constructed on T4 phage nanometer-particle surface as a recombinant vaccine. T4-mVEGFR2 recombinant vaccine was identified by PCR and western blot assay. Immunotherapy with T4-mVEGFR2 was confirmed by protective immunity against Lewis lung carcinoma (LLC) in mice. The antibody against mVEGFR2 was detected by ELISPOT, ELISA and Dot ELISA. The inhibitive effects against angiogenesis were studied using CD31 and CD105 via histological analysis. VEGF-mediated endothelial cells proliferation and tube formation were inhibited in vitro by immunoglobulin induced by T4-mVEGFR2. The antitumor activity was substantiated from the adoptive transfer of the purified immunoglobulin. Antitumor activity and autoantibody production of mVEGFR2 could be neutralized by the depletion of CD4+T lymphocytes. These studies strongly suggest that T4-mVEGFR2 recombinant vaccine might be a promising antitumor approach.
Hepatitis B surface antigen-1018 ISS adjuvant-containing vaccine: a review of HEPLISAV™ safety and efficacy.	Immunization represents the most effective approach to the prevention of hepatitis B virus infection and the long-term complications of chronic disease, including liver cancer and liver failure. Current vaccines require three doses to achieve maximal immunogenicity and fail to produce long-lasting protection in 5-10% of immune-competent individuals and in a much larger proportion of immune-compromised patients. Immunostimulatory DNA sequence (ISS) vaccine adjuvants, when combined with vaccine antigens, may increase immunogenicity and reduce the number of required doses to achieve this goal. 1018 ISS plus recombinant hepatitis B surface antigen has been demonstrated to achieve these goals in immune competent and vaccine-hyporesponsive populations without compromising recipient safety.
Newcastle disease virus-vectored rabies vaccine is safe, highly immunogenic, and provides long-lasting protection in dogs and cats.	Effective, safe, and affordable rabies vaccines are still being sought. Newcastle disease virus (NDV), an avian paramyxovirus, has shown promise as a vaccine vector for mammals. Here, we generated a recombinant avirulent NDV La Sota strain expressing the rabies virus glycoprotein (RVG) and evaluated its potential to serve as a vaccine against rabies. The recombinant virus, rL-RVG, retained its high-growth property in chicken eggs, with titers of up to 10⁹·⁸ 50% egg infective doses (EID₅₀)/ml of allantoic fluid. RVG expression enabled rL-RVG to spread from cell to cell in a rabies virus-like manner, and RVG was incorporated on the surface of the rL-RVG viral particle. RVG incorporation did not alter the trypsin-dependent infectivity of the NDV vector in mammalian cells. rL-RVG and La Sota NDV showed similar levels of sensitivity to a neutralization antibody against NDV and similar levels of resistance to a neutralization antibody against rabies virus. Animal studies demonstrated that rL-RVG is safe in several species, including cats and dogs, when administered as multiple high doses of recombinant vaccine. Intramuscular vaccination with rL-RVG induced a substantial rabies virus neutralization antibody response and provided complete protection from challenge with circulating rabies virus strains. Most importantly, rL-RVG induced strong and long-lasting protective neutralization antibody responses to rabies virus in dogs and cats. A low vaccine dose of 10⁸·³ EID₅₀ completely protected dogs from challenge with a circulating strain of rabies virus for more than a year. This is the first study to demonstrate that immunization with an NDV-vectored vaccine can induce long-lasting, systemic protective immunity against rabies.
Repetitive immunization breaks tolerance to type XVII collagen and leads to bullous pemphigoid in mice.	Bullous pemphigoid (BP) is a subepidermal autoimmune blistering disease of the elderly associated with considerable morbidity and mortality. As unspecific immunosuppressants are still the mainstay of BP therapy, several animal models, based on the passive transfer of autoantibodies or immune cells, have been developed to obtain a better understanding of the pathogenesis of BP and evaluate novel therapeutic interventions. We describe in this study an experimental model inducing BP by immunization of immunocompetent mice with a recombinant form of the immunodominant 15th noncollagenous domain of murine BP180 (type XVII collagen). The homologous noncollagenous 16A domain of human BP180 has previously been identified as an immunodominant region in human BP. Immunization of female SJL/J mice with the murine peptide led to clinical disease within 14 wk in 56% of mice. In contrast, none of the other strains developed blisters despite the presence of autoantibodies. The clinical disease manifested for at least 8 wk without further manipulation. This novel immunization-induced model reflects key immunopathological characteristics of human BP, including binding of complement-fixing autoantibodies along the dermal-epidermal junction, elevated total IgE serum levels, and infiltration of skin lesions with eosinophilic granulocytes. The use of immunocompetent mice and the induction of sustained clinical disease not requiring additional interventions make this immunization-induced mouse model most suitable to further explore the pathogenesis of BP and novel therapeutic interventions for this and other autoantibody-mediated diseases.
Vaccination with dengue virus-like particles induces humoral and cellular immune responses in mice.	The incidence of dengue, an infectious disease caused by dengue virus (DENV), has dramatically increased around the world in recent decades and is becoming a severe public health threat. However, there is currently no specific treatment for dengue fever, and licensed vaccine against dengue is not available. Vaccination with virus-like particles (VLPs) has shown considerable promise for many viral diseases, but the effect of DENV VLPs to induce specific immune responses has not been adequately investigated.
Influenza virus-like particle can accommodate multiple subtypes of hemagglutinin and protect from multiple influenza types and subtypes.	Despite existing vaccines and specific therapies, epidemics of seasonal influenza annually claim 200,000-500,000 lives worldwide. Pandemic influenza represents an even greater threat, with numerous potentially pandemic viruses circulating in nature. Development of multi-specific vaccines against multiple pandemic or seasonal strains is important for human health and the global economy. Here we report a novel virus-like particle (VLP) platform that contains three hemagglutinin (HA) subtypes. This recombinant vaccine design resulted in the expression of three HA subtypes co-localized within a VLP. Experimental triple-HA VLPs containing HA proteins derived from H5N1, H7N2, and H2N3 viruses were immunogenic and protected ferrets from challenge from all three potentially pandemic viruses. Similarly, VLPs containing HA subtypes derived from seasonal H1N1, H3N2, and type B influenza viruses protected ferrets from three seasonal influenza viruses. We conclude that this technology may represent a novel strategy for rapid development of trivalent seasonal and pandemic vaccines.
A fast track influenza virus vaccine produced in insect cells.	The viral surface protein hemagglutinin (HA) has been recognized as a key antigen in the host response to influenza virus in both natural infection and vaccination because neutralizing antibodies directed against HA can mitigate or prevent infection. The baculovirus-insect cell system can be used for the production of recombinant HA molecules and is suitable for influenza vaccine production where annual adjustment of the vaccine is required. This expression system is generally considered safe with minimal potential for growth of human pathogens. Extensive characterization of this novel cell substrate has been performed, none of which has revealed the presence of adventitious agents. Multiple clinical studies have demonstrated that the vaccine is safe, well-tolerated and immunogenic. The baculovirus-insect cell system could, therefore, be used for the expedited production of a safe and efficacious influenza vaccine. As a result, this technology should provide a fast track worldwide solution for newly emerging influenza strains or pandemic preparedness within a few years.
Multi-epitope recombinant vaccine induces immunoprotection against mixed infection of Eimeria spp.	Immunity to Eimeria is species-specific, and chickens with immunity to one species of Eimeria remain susceptible to other Eimeria species. This presents a major challenge in the development of effective vaccines against multiple Eimeria species. In this study, we cloned the antigenic epitope of a tachyzoite surface protein gene of Eimeria tenella, a tachyzoite surface protein gene of Eimeria acervulina and the gametocyte protein gene of Eimeria maxima, and constructed prokaryotic and eukaryotic plasmids carrying the multi-epitope antigenic gene. Immunization of chickens with the multivalent DNA and protein conferred partial protection against infection by the three Eimeria species, as shown by increased CD4+ T lymphocytes in the intestinal mucosa, decreased oocyst excretion and intestinal lesions, and increased body weight gain compared with non-immunized controls. The DNA prime-protein boost immunization schedule induced greater cellular immunity and protection from Eimeria infection than immunization with DNA or protein alone. Our findings demonstrated that DNA prime-protein boost immunization with a multivalent vaccine could stimulate protective immunity against challenge infection of multiple Eimeria species. This work provides a promising step towards DNA-protein vaccination against multiple species of pathogens.
Adjuvant effect of ginsenoside-based nanoparticles (ginsomes) on the recombinant vaccine against Eimeria tenella in chickens.	An experiment was conducted to study the adjuvant effect of ginsomes on the recombinant profilin in coccidian-infected breeding birds. Three-day-old chickens were vaccinated with Eimeria tenella recombinant profilin antigen (10, 50, and 100 μg per chicken) with or without 50 μg ginsomes per chicken. The boost vaccination was carried out 14 days later. Two weeks after the booster, the chickens were challenged with 1.5 × 10(4) homologous sporulated oocysts. The specific antibody response, lymphocyte proliferation, and IL-1 release from lymphocyte were measured at 1-42 days after boost vaccination. Seven days post-challenge, the rate of survival, body weight gains (BWG) were examined then all chickens were sacrificed and lesion scores and oocysts per gram were monitored to evaluate the protective effects of the vaccination after challenge. Compared with the group of vaccinating with profilin only, groups of 50 and 100 μg antigen plus ginsomes significantly enhanced lymphocyte proliferation and IL-1 secretion. The profilin specific antibody level in the four vaccinated groups was significantly higher than in the control group and in groups vaccinated with profilin containing ginsomes than profilin only. In the groups vaccinated with profilin plus ginsomes, the BWG was significantly higher than that of group of profilin only, but there was no significant difference between profilin plus adjuvant ginsomes, diclazuril medicated and uninfected-unmedicated-unvaccinated control groups. The lesion scores in groups immunized with profilin plus ginsomes was significantly lower than that both of groups unimmunized-challenged-unmedicated control and group vaccinated with profilin only. Oocyst excretion in groups vaccinated with 50 or 100 μg profilin plus ginsomes was lower than that of groups vaccinated with profilin only. These results demonstrate that the adjuvant ginsomes can promote subunit vaccine to induce a strong immune response and protective effects.
Correlation between efficacy and structure of recombinant epitope vaccines against bovine type O foot and mouth disease virus.	To develop recombinant epitope vaccines against foot-and-mouth disease virus (FMDV), genes coding for six recombinant proteins (rP1–rP6) consisting of different combinations of B cell and T cell epitope from VP1 capsid protein (VP1) of type O FMDV were constructed and the 3D structure of these proteins analyzed. This revealed a surface-exposed RGD sequence of B cell epitopes in all six recombinant proteins as that in VP1 of FMDV and rP1, rP2 and rP4 globally mimicked the backbone conformation of the VP1. rP1, rP2 and rP4 stimulated guinea pigs to produce higher level of neutralizing antibodies capable of protecting suckling mice against FMDV challenge. rP1 stimulated cattle to produce FMDV-neutralizing antibody. The data suggest that an efficient recombinant epitope vaccine against FMDV should share local similarities with the natural VP1 of FMDV.
A novel recombinant Leishmania donovani p45, a partial coding region of methionine aminopeptidase, generates protective immunity by inducing a Th1 stimulatory response against experimental visceral leishmaniasis.	The development of a vaccine against visceral leishmaniasis (VL) conferring long-lasting immunity remains a challenge. Identification and proteomic characterization of parasite proteins led to the detection of p45, a member of the methionine aminopeptidase family. To our knowledge the present study is the first known report that describes the molecular and immunological characterization of p45. Recombinant Leishmania donovani p45 (rLdp45) induced cellular responses in cured hamsters and generated Th1-type cytokines from peripheral blood mononuclear cells of cured/endemic VL patients. Immunization with rLdp45 exerted considerable prophylactic efficacy (∼85%) supported by an increase in mRNA expression of iNOS, IFN-γ, TNF-α and IL-12 and decrease in TGF-β and IL-4, indicating its potential as a vaccine candidate against VL.
Heterologous prime-boost regimen adenovector 35-circumsporozoite protein vaccine/recombinant Bacillus Calmette-Guérin expressing the Plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite induces enhanced long-term memory immunity in BALB/c mice.	Sustained antibody levels are a hallmark of immunity against many pathogens, and induction of long-term durable antibody titers is an essential feature of effective vaccines. Heterologous prime-boost approaches with vectors are optimal strategies to improve a broad and prolonged immunogenicity of malaria vaccines.
Comparison of vaccine efficacy for different antigen delivery systems for infectious pancreatic necrosis virus vaccines in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) in a cohabitation challenge model.	Two strains of IPNV made by reverse genetics on the Norwegian Sp strain NVI-015 (GenBank AY379740) backbone encoding the virulent (T(217)A(221)) and avirulent (P(217)T(221)) motifs were used to prepare inactivated whole virus (IWV), nanoparticle vaccines with whole virus, Escherichia coli subunit encoding truncated VP2-TA and VP2-PT, VP2-TA and VP2-PT fusion antigens with putative translocating domains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa exotoxin, and plasmid DNA encoding segment A of the TA strain. Post challenge survival percentages (PCSP) showed that IWV vaccines conferred highest protection (PCSP=42-53) while nanoparticle, sub-unit recombinant and DNA vaccines fell short of the IWV vaccines in Atlantic salmon (Salmo salar L.) postsmolts challenged with the highly virulent Sp strain NVI-015 (TA strain) of IPNV after 560 degree days post vaccination. Antibody levels induced by these vaccines did not show antigenic differences between the virulent and avirulent motifs for vaccines made with the same antigen dose and delivery system after 8 weeks post vaccination. Our findings show that fish vaccinated with less potent vaccines comprising of nanoparticle, DNA and recombinant vaccines got infected much earlier and yielded to higher infection rates than fish vaccinated with IWV vaccines that were highly potent. Ability of the virulent (T(217)A(221)) and avirulent (P(217)T(221)) motifs to limit establishment of infection showed equal protection for vaccines made of the same antigen dose and delivery systems. Prevention of tissue damage linked to viral infection was eminent in the more potent vaccines than the less protective ones. Hence, there still remains the challenge of developing highly efficacious vaccines with the ability to eliminate the post challenge carrier state in IPNV vaccinology.
Indicators of therapeutic effect in FIT-06, a Phase II trial of a DNA vaccine, GTU(®)-Multi-HIVB, in untreated HIV-1 infected subjects.	Combination highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly decreased HIV-1 related morbidity and mortality globally transforming HIV into a controllable condition. HAART has a number of limitations though, including limited access in resource constrained countries, which have driven the search for simpler, affordable HIV-1 treatment modalities. Therapeutic HIV-1 vaccines aim to provide immunological support to slow disease progression and decrease transmission. We evaluated the safety, immunogenicity and clinical effect of a novel recombinant plasmid DNA therapeutic HIV-1 vaccine, GTU(®)-multi-HIVB, containing 6 different genes derived from an HIV-1 subtype B isolate.
Serotype specificity of recombinant fusion protein containing domain III and capsid protein of dengue virus 2.	Recombinant fusion protein containing domain III of the dengue envelope protein fused to capsid protein from dengue 2 virus was immunogenic and conferred protection in mice against lethal challenge in previously report. Here, the antigenic specificity of this recombinant protein using anti-dengue antibodies from mice and humans and the cross-reactive humoral and cellular response induced in immunized mice were evaluated. The homologous anti-dengue antibodies showed a higher reactivity to the recombinant protein compared to the wide cross-reactivity observed for viral antigen as determined by ELISA. The IgG anti-dengue and functional antibodies, induced by the recombinant proteins in mice, were highly serotype specific by ELISA, hemaglutination inhibition and plaque reduction neutralizing tests. Accordingly, the cellular immune response determined by the IFNγ and TNFα secretion, was serotype specific. The specificity of serotype associated to this recombinant protein in addition to its high antigenicity, immunogenicity and protecting capacity suggest its advantage as a possible functional and safe vaccine candidate against dengue in a future tetravalent formulation.
Comparison on the antibody response after primary immunization of 5 µg and 10 µg hepatitis B vaccine made by recombinant DNA techniques among newborns]	To compare the antibody response induced by primary immunization with 5 µg and 10 µg hepatitis B vaccine made by recombinant DNA techniques among the newborns.
Dengue-1 envelope protein domain III along with PELC and CpG oligodeoxynucleotides synergistically enhances immune responses.	The major weaknesses of subunit vaccines are their low immunogenicity and poor efficacy. Adjuvants can help to overcome some of these inherent defects with subunit vaccines. Here, we evaluated the efficacy of the newly developed water-in-oil-in-water multiphase emulsion system, termed PELC, in potentiating the protective capacity of dengue-1 envelope protein domain III. Unlike aluminum phosphate, dengue-1 envelope protein domain III formulated with PELC plus CpG oligodeoxynucleotides induced neutralizing antibodies against dengue-1 virus and increased the splenocyte secretion of IFN-γ after in vitro re-stimulation. The induced antibodies contained both the IgG1 and IgG2a subclasses. A rapid anamnestic neutralizing antibody response against a live dengue virus challenge was elicited at week 26 after the first immunization. These results demonstrate that PELC plus CpG oligodeoxynucleotides broaden the dengue-1 envelope protein domain III-specific immune responses. PELC plus CpG oligodeoxynucleotides is a promising adjuvant for recombinant protein based vaccination against dengue virus.
Low efficacy of NcGRA7, NcSAG4, NcBSR4 and NcSRS9 formulated in poly-ε-caprolactone against Neospora caninum infection in mice.	The protective efficacy of vaccination with Neospora caninum recombinant antigens was evaluated in Balb/c pregnant and non-pregnant mouse models of neosporosis. A major immunodominant dense granule protein (NcGRA7) and three bradyzoite-specific surface antigens (NcSAG4, NcBSR4 and NcSRS9) were expressed in Escherichia coli and encapsulated within poly-ε-caprolactone (PCL) nanoparticles for the first time. Good efficiencies of entrapment (greater than 50%) were obtained for all encapsulated proteins. Moreover, antigenicity was unaffected after formulation. Afterwards, separate groups of mice were immunised with the nanoparticles and were then challenged with N. caninum tachyzoites. High IgG1 and IgG2a antibody levels of anti-N. caninum and specific antibodies directed against recombinant proteins were developed by all of the immunised groups. Mice previously inoculated with encapsulated rNcGRA7 produced significant levels of IFN-γ. However, in general, a low production of IFN-γ was detected. This may indicate a failure in the complete liberation of antigens after immunisation or an incorrect balance of the Th1/Th2 response to combat acute neosporosis during pregnancy. In fact, high morbidity and mortality rates were observed in dams. Moreover, vertical transmission was not prevented, and high neonatal mortality rates occurred similarly among the groups. Despite the global absence of efficacy, the study reveals some results of positive efficacy regarding dams and pups' survival and parasite presence for NcSRS9 recombinant protein. Furthermore, vaccination with rNcGRA7 encapsulated alone or combined with rNcSAG4 resulted in a slight decrease of parasite presence in non-pregnant mice. These promising results are further discussed to suggest new approaches that may be more suitable to test vaccine formulations based on bradyzoite stage-specific proteins.
Virus like particle based strategy to elicit HIV-protective antibodies to the alpha-helic regions of gp41.	Natural antibodies to gp41 inhibit HIV-1 replication through the recognition of two different regions, corresponding to the leucine zipper motif in the HR1 alpha-helix and to another motif within HR2 region, hosting 2F5 and 4E10 epitope. This study aimed at reproducing such protective responses through VLP vaccination. Six regions covering the alpha-helical regions of gp41 were conjugated to the surface of AP205 phage-based VLPs. Once administered in mice via systemic or mucosal route, these immunogens elicited high titers of gp41-specific IgG. Immunogenicity and HIV infectivity reduction were obtained either with HR2 regions or with peptides where aminoacid strings were added to either the C-terminus or N-terminus of core epitope in HR1 region. Antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity (ADCC) activity was induced by one of the HR2 epitopes only. These results may have relevant implications for the development of new vaccinal approaches against HIV infection.
Protection by a recombinant Mycobacterium bovis Bacillus Calmette-Guerin vaccine expressing Shiga toxin 2 B subunit against Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli in mice.	We have developed a novel vaccine against Shiga toxin (Stx)-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) infection using a recombinant Mycobacterium bovis BCG (rBCG) system. Two intraperitoneal vaccinations with rBCG expressing the Stx2 B subunit (Stx2B) resulted in an increase of protective serum IgG and mucosal IgA responses to Stx2B in BALB/c mice. When orally challenged with 10(3) CFU of STEC strain B2F1 (O91: H21), the immunized mice survived statistically significantly longer than the nonvaccinated mice. We suggest that intraperitoneal immunization with rBCG expressing Stx2B would be a potential vaccine strategy for STEC.
In vivo efficacy of a chimeric peptide derived from the conserved region of the M protein against group C and G streptococci.	The J8 peptide from the conserved region of the M protein protects against group A streptococcus infections. In this study, we demonstrate that vaccination with a J8-containing formulation induces IgG that recognizes and binds group C and G streptococci. Moreover, this formulation has the potential to provide protection against infections caused by these organisms.
The recombinant tuberculosis vaccine rBCG ΔureC::hly(+) induces apoptotic vesicles for improved priming of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells.	The recombinant BCG ΔureC::hly(+) (rBCG) vaccine candidate is more efficient than parental BCG (pBCG) against tuberculosis (TB) in preclinical models. Evidence exists for superior CD4 and CD8 T cell stimulation. Although the responsible immune mechanisms are incompletely understood, crosspriming of CD8 T cells has been proposed as a major mechanism underlying better protection of rBCG over pBCG. The present study investigates the role of apoptotic vesicles from pBCG- and rBCG-infected macrophages in crosspriming.
NDV-3, a recombinant alum-adjuvanted vaccine for Candida and Staphylococcus aureus, is safe and immunogenic in healthy adults.	The investigational vaccine, NDV-3, contains the N-terminal portion of the Candida albicans agglutinin-like sequence 3 protein (Als3p) formulated with an aluminum hydroxide adjuvant in phosphate-buffered saline. Preclinical studies demonstrated that the Als3p vaccine antigen protects mice from oropharyngeal, vaginal and intravenous challenge with C. albicans and other selected species of Candida as well as both intravenous challenge and skin and soft tissue infection with Staphylococcus aureus. The objectives of this first-in-human Phase I clinical trial were to evaluate the safety, tolerability and immunogenicity of NDV-3 at two different antigen levels compared to a saline placebo. Forty healthy, adult subjects were randomized to receive one dose of NDV-3 containing either 30 or 300 μg of Als3p, or placebo. NDV-3 at both dose levels was safe and generally well-tolerated. Anti-Als3p total IgG and IgA1 levels for both doses reached peak levels by day 14 post vaccination, with 100% seroconversion of all vaccinated subjects. On average, NDV-3 stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) production of both IFN-γ and IL-17A, which peaked at day 7 for subjects receiving the 300 μg dose and at day 28 for those receiving the 30 μg dose. Six months after receiving the first dose of NDV-3, nineteen subjects received a second dose of NDV-3 identical to their first dose to evaluate memory B- and T-cell immune responses. The second dose resulted in a significant boost of IgG and IgA1 titers in >70% of subjects, with the biggest impact in those receiving the 30 μg dose. A memory T-cell response was also noted for IFN-γ in almost all subjects and for IL-17A in the majority of subjects. These data support the continued investigation of NDV-3 as a vaccine candidate against Candida and S. aureus infections.
A multistage-polyepitope vaccine protects against Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection in HLA-DR3 transgenic mice.	Mycobacterium tuberculosis (Mtb) is responsible for almost 2 million deaths annually. BCG, currently the only TB vaccine, induces variable protection and does not protect against reactivation of latent TB. Thus, efficient vaccines to supplement BCG are required urgently. Since Mtb's proteome differs qualitatively and quantitatively during bacterial replication stages from that expressed during dormancy, improved TB vaccines should drive immune responses to Mtb antigens expressed during multiple stages of infection. Consequently, such "multistage" vaccines should be composed of (immunodominant) antigens expressed during different phases of Mtb infection. As a concept multistage vaccine, we constructed a polyepitope by fusing five HLA-DR3-restricted T-cell epitopes derived from different Mtb proteins either expressed highly by replicating bacteria (Ag85B, hsp65, 19 kDa lipoprotein), or abundantly expressed by dormant bacilli and recognized preferentially by TST(+) individuals (hsp16, Rv1733c). PBMC of HLA-DR3(+) but not HLA-DR3(-) cured TB patients and TST(+) individuals responded well to the multistage-polyepitope in vitro. The in vivo immunogenicity and protective efficacy of the multistage-polyepitope were analyzed using HLA-DR3 transgenic mice lacking endogenous murine class II as a model. Immunization with the multistage-polyepitope adjuvanted with CpG generated high IgG levels as well as polyfunctional CD4(+) T-cells producing IFN-γ, TNF and IL-2, specific for these HLA-DR3-restricted epitopes. Importantly, multistage-polyepitope immunization reduced the number of bacilli in the lungs after Mtb challenge when administered as prophylactic vaccine. Given the extensive repertoire of potential Mtb antigens available for immune recognition, the data of our model demonstrate the potential of multistage-polyepitope vaccines to protect against TB.
Insect cell-expressed hemagglutinin with CpG oligodeoxynucleotides plus alum as an adjuvant is a potential pandemic influenza vaccine candidate.	Vaccination is the most effective method used to reduce the morbidity and mortality of influenza infections. However, as exemplified in the current swine-origin influenza virus (S-OIV) pandemic, the global manufacturing capacity of influenza vaccines is severely limited. In the present proof-of-concept study, we combined cell substrate selection and antigen engineering with adjuvant development to design a potential pandemic influenza vaccine candidate, in which CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG-ODN) plus alum was used as a composite adjuvant to enhance the immunogenicity of insect cell-expressed recombinant hemagglutinin (rHA). Our candidate vaccine was found to be effective in inducing protective humoral as well as cellular immunity in mice and able to protect the immunized mice from related influenza virus challenge. If this candidate vaccine is validated in humans, vaccine development can be started immediately after the release of the first HA sequence of any pandemic influenza virus. Moreover, given the potential of large-scale manufacturing capacity of the recombinant antigen, in combination with the antigen-sparing effect of the composite adjuvant, this technology could be an invaluable asset in the fight against pandemic influenza.
Safety and immunogenicity of pneumococcal protein vaccine candidates: monovalent choline-binding protein A (PcpA) vaccine and bivalent PcpA-pneumococcal histidine triad protein D vaccine.	Pneumococcal vaccines based on protein antigens may provide expanded protection against Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Safety and immunogenicity of a pneumococcal histidine triad protein D vaccine candidate in adults.	Pneumococcal vaccines based on conserved protein antigens have the potential to offer expanded protection against Streptococcus pneumoniae.
Intravaginal immunization with HPV vectors induces tissue-resident CD8+ T cell responses.	The induction of persistent intraepithelial CD8+ T cell responses may be key to the development of vaccines against mucosally transmitted pathogens, particularly for sexually transmitted diseases. Here we investigated CD8+ T cell responses in the female mouse cervicovaginal mucosa after intravaginal immunization with human papillomavirus vectors (HPV pseudoviruses) that transiently expressed a model antigen, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) M/M2, in cervicovaginal keratinocytes. An HPV intravaginal prime/boost with different HPV serotypes induced 10-fold more cervicovaginal antigen-specific CD8+ T cells than priming alone. Antigen-specific T cell numbers decreased only 2-fold after 6 months. Most genital antigen-specific CD8+ T cells were intra- or subepithelial, expressed αE-integrin CD103, produced IFN-γ and TNF-α, and displayed in vivo cytotoxicity. Using a sphingosine-1-phosphate analog (FTY720), we found that the primed CD8+ T cells proliferated in the cervicovaginal mucosa upon HPV intravaginal boost. Intravaginal HPV prime/boost reduced cervicovaginal viral titers 1,000-fold after intravaginal challenge with vaccinia virus expressing the CD8 epitope M2. In contrast, intramuscular prime/boost with an adenovirus type 5 vector induced a higher level of systemic CD8+ T cells but failed to induce intraepithelial CD103+CD8+ T cells or protect against recombinant vaccinia vaginal challenge. Thus, HPV vectors are attractive gene-delivery platforms for inducing durable intraepithelial cervicovaginal CD8+ T cell responses by promoting local proliferation and retention of primed antigen-specific CD8+ T cells.
Sporozoite neutralizing antibodies elicited in mice and rhesus macaques immunized with a Plasmodium falciparum repeat peptide conjugated to meningococcal outer membrane protein complex.	Antibodies that neutralize infectivity of malaria sporozoites target the central repeat region of the circumsporozoite (CS) protein, which in Plasmodium falciparum is comprised primarily of 30-40 tandem NANP tetramer repeats. We evaluated immunogenicity of an alum-adsorbed (NANP)(6) peptide conjugated to an outer membrane protein complex (OMPC) derived from Neisseria meningitidis, a carrier protein used in a licensed Haemophilus influenzae pediatric vaccine. Mice immunized with (NANP)(6)-OMPC adsorbed to Merck's alum adjuvant (MAA), with or without Iscomatrix® as co-adjuvant, developed high levels of anti-repeat peptide antibody that inhibited in vitro invasion of human hepatoma cells by transgenic P. berghei sporozoites that express P. falciparum CS repeats (PfPb). Inhibition of sporozoite invasion in vitro correlated with in vivo resistance to challenge by the bites of PfPb-infected mosquitoes. Challenged mice had >90% reduction of hepatic stage parasites as measured by real-time PCR, and either sterile immunity, i.e., no detectable blood stage parasites, or delayed prepatent periods which indicate neutralization of a majority, but not all, sporozoites. Rhesus macaques immunized with two doses of (NANP)(6)-OMPC/MAA formulated with Iscomatrix® developed anti-repeat antibodies that persisted for ~2 years. A third dose of (NANP)(6)-OMPC/MAA+ Iscomatrix® at that time elicited strong anamnestic antibody responses. Rhesus macaque immune sera obtained post second and third dose of vaccine displayed high levels of sporozoite neutralizing activity in vitro that correlated with presence of high anti-repeat antibody titers. These preclinical studies in mice of different MHC haplotypes and a non-human primate support use of CS peptide-OMPC conjugates as a highly immunogenic platform to evaluate CS protective epitopes. Potential pre-erythrocytic vaccines can be combined with sexual blood stage vaccines as a multi-antigen malaria vaccine to block invasion and transmission of Plasmodium parasites.
Development of the S3Pvac vaccine against murine Taenia crassiceps cysticercosis: a historical review.	Our work of the last 25 yr was concerned with the development of a vaccine aimed to prevent porcine Taenia solium cysticercosis and was based on cross-reacting Taenia crassiceps antigens that had proved protective against experimental intraperitoneal murine T. crassiceps cysticercosis (EIMTcC). In recent times the efficacy of the vaccine has been considered in need of confirmation, and the use of EIMTcC has been questioned as a valid tool in screening for vaccine candidates among the many antigens possibly involved. A review of our work divided in 2 parts is presented at this point, the first dealing with EIMTcC and the second with porcine T. solium cysticercosis (presented in this issue). Herein, we revise our results using EIMTcC as a measure of the protective capacity of T. crassiceps complex antigen mixtures, of purified native antigens, and of S3Pvac anti-cysticercosis vaccine composed by 3 protective peptides: GK-1, KETc1, and KETc12 either synthetic or recombinantly expressed and collectively or separately, by diverse delivery systems when administered at different doses and by different routes. Statistical analyses of the data lead confidently to the strong inference that S3Pvac is indeed an effective vaccine against EIMTcC via specific and non-specific mechanisms of protection.
Immunization with a multisubunit vaccine considerably reduces establishment of infective larvae in a rodent model of Brugia malayi.	Although recombinant vaccines have several advantages over conventional vaccines, protection induced by single antigen vaccines is often inadequate for a multicellular helminth parasite. Therefore, immunoprophylactic efficacy of cocktail antigen vaccines comprised of several combinations of three Brugia malayi recombinant proteins BmAF-Myo, Bm-iPGM and Bm-TPP were evaluated. Myosin+TPP and iPGM+TPP provided the best protection upon B. malayi infective larval challenge with ∼70% reduction in adult worm establishment over non-vaccinated animals that was significantly higher than the protection achieved by any single antigen vaccine. Myosin+iPGM, in contrast did not provide any enhance protection over the single recombinant protein vaccines. Specific IgG, IgM level, IgG antibody subclasses levels (IgG1, IgG2a, IgG2b, IgG3), lymphocyte proliferation, reactive oxygen species level and cytokines level were also determined to elucidate the characteristics of the protective immune responses. Thus the study undertaken provided more insight into the cocktail vaccination approach to combat LF. 
Absence of systemic toxicity changes following intramuscular administration of novel pSG2.HIVconsv DNA, ChAdV63.HIVconsv and MVA.HIVconsv vaccines to BALB/c mice.	The systemic toxicity of three candidate HIV-1 vaccines plasmid pSG2.HIVconsv DNA (D), ChAdV63.HIVconsv (C) and MVA.HIVconsv (M) expressing chimeric immunogen derived from the most conserved regions of the HIV-1 proteome was evaluated in two repeat-dose studies in the male and female BALB/c mice.
High non-responsiveness of males and the elderly to standard hepatitis B vaccination among a large cohort of healthy employees.	Hepatitis B virus infection is a major health problem. Although non-response is known to increase with age, hepatitis B vaccinations are considered to have only minor non-response rates (anti-HBs<10IU/L) in healthy subjects.
Preclinical safety assessment of a recombinant plague vaccine (rF1V).	A recombinant vaccine (rF1V) is being developed to protect adults 18 to 55 years of age from fatal pneumonic plague caused by aerosolized Yersinia pestis. A comprehensive series of studies was conducted to evaluate the general toxicity and local reactogenicity of the rF1V vaccine prior to first use in humans. Toxicity was evaluated in CD-1 mice vaccinated with control material and three dosage concentrations of rF1V with or without Alhydrogel(®) by intramuscular (IM) injection on Study Days 1, 29, 57 and 71 in a volume of 0.1 mL. Total immunizing protein given in each dose was 0, 20 or 60 μg/animal. Local reactogenicity was evaluated in mice at the dosages given and in New Zealand white (NZW) rabbits using the same injection volume and formulations (40, 80, 160 and 320 μg/mL total antigen and 0.3% (w/v) Alhydrogel(®)) intended for human use (0.5 mL). The rF1V vaccine produced no apparent systemic toxicity and only transient edema and erythema at the injection site. Together these results indicated a favorable safety profile for rF1V and supported its use in a Phase 1 clinical trial. 
Evaluation of YadC protein delivered by live attenuated Salmonella as a vaccine against plague.	Yersinia pestis YadB and YadC are two new outer membrane proteins related to its pathogenicity. Here, codon-optimized yadC, yadC810 (aa 32-551), or yadBC antigen genes delivered by live attenuated Salmonella strains are evaluated in mice for induction of protective immune responses against Y. pestis CO92 through subcutaneous or intranasal challenge. Our findings indicate that mice immunized with Salmonella synthesizing YadC, YadC810, or YadBC develop significant serum IgG responses to purified recombinant YadC protein. For subcutaneous challenge (approximately 230 LD50 of Y. pestis CO92), mice immunized with Salmonella synthesizing YadC or YadC810 are afforded 50% protection, but no protection by immunization with the Salmonella strain synthesizing YadBC. None of these antigens provided protection against intranasal challenge (approximately 31 LD50 of Y. pestis CO92). In addition, subcutaneous immunization with purified YadC810 protein emulsified with alum adjuvant does not elicit a protective response against Y. pestis administered by either challenge route. 
Development of replication-competent viral vectors for HIV vaccine delivery.	To briefly describe some of the replication-competent vectors being investigated for development of candidate HIV vaccines focusing primarily on technologies that have advanced to testing in macaques or have entered clinical trials.
Production and evaluation of a recombinant chimeric vaccine against clostridium botulinum neurotoxin types C and D.	Bovine botulism is a fatal disease that is caused by botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) produced by Clostridium botulinum serotypes C and D and that causes great economic losses, with nearly 100% lethality during outbreaks. It has also been considered a potential source of human food-borne illness in many countries. Vaccination has been reported to be the most effective way to control bovine botulism. However, the commercially available toxoid-based vaccines are difficult and hazardous to produce. Neutralizing antibodies targeted against the C-terminal fragment of the BoNT heavy chain (HC) are known to confer efficient protection against lethal doses of BoNTs. In this study, a novel recombinant chimera, consisting of Escherichia coli heat-labile enterotoxin B subunit (LTB), a strong adjuvant of the humoral immune response, fused to the HC of BoNT serotypes C and D, was produced in E. coli. Mice vaccinated with the chimera containing LTB and an equivalent molar ratio of the chimera without LTB plus aluminum hydroxide (Al(OH)3) developed 2 IU/mL of antitoxins for both serotypes. Guinea pigs immunized with the recombinant chimera with LTB plus Al(OH)3 developed a protective immune response against both BoNT/C (5 IU/mL) and BoNT/D (10 IU/mL), as determined by a mouse neutralization bioassay with pooled sera. The results achieved with guinea pig sera fulfilled the requirements of commercial vaccines for prevention of botulism, as determined by the Brazilian Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food, Supply. The presence of LTB was essential for the development of a strong humoral immune response, as it acted in synergism with Al(OH)3. Thus, the vaccine described in this study is a strong candidate for the control of botulism in cattle. 
Immunisation with ID83 fusion protein induces antigen-specific cell mediated and humoral immune responses in cattle.	In this study we have investigated the potential of mycobacterial proteins as candidate subunit vaccines for bovine tuberculosis. In addition, we have explored the use of TLR-ligands as potential adjuvants in cattle. In vitro screening assays with whole blood from Mycobacterium bovis-infected and BCG-vaccinated cattle demonstrated that fusion protein constructs were most commonly recognised, and the ID83 fusion protein was selected for further immunisation studies. Furthermore, glucopyranosyl lipid A (GLA) and resiquimod (R848), agonists for TLR4 and TLR7/8 respectively, stimulated cytokine production (IL-12, TNF-α, MIP-1β and IL-10) in bovine dendritic cell cultures, and these were formulated as novel oil-in-water emulsions (GLA-SE and R848-SE) for immunisation studies. Immunisation with ID83 in a water-in-oil emulsion adjuvant (ISA70) induced both cell mediated and humoral immune responses, as characterised by antigen-specific IFN-γ production, cell proliferation, IgG1 and IgG2 antibody production. In comparison, ID83 immunisation with the novel adjuvants induced weaker (ID83/R848-SE) or no (ID83/GLA-SE) antigen-specific IFN-γ production and cell proliferation. However, both did induce ID83-specific antibody production, which was restricted to IgG1 antibody isotype. Overall, these results provide encouraging preliminary data for the further development of ID83 in vaccine strategies for bovine TB. 
Protective efficacy of PLGA microspheres loaded with divalent DNA vaccine encoding the ompA gene of Aeromonas veronii and the hly gene of Aeromonas hydrophila in mice.	In the present study, poly (lactic-co-glycolic) acid (PLGA) was used as a carrier for a divalent fusion DNA vaccine encoding the Aeromonas veronii outer membrane protein A (ompA) and Aeromonas hydrophila hemolysins (hly) protein. The recombinant pET-28a-ompA-hly was constructed by inserting the ompA gene and hly gene into a pET-28a expression vector. Loading of ompA-hly antigen module on PLGA microspheres were accomplished by water-in-oil-in-water (W/O/W) encapsulation. The molecular weight and specificity of pET-28a-ompA-hly were detected by dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) and western blotting. The microspheres showed an average particle size of 100-150 μm and a loading efficiency (LE) of 68.8%. Mice received ompA-hly antigen-loaded PLGA microspheres by intraperitoneal or intragastric administration mounted strong and sustained IgG response, which was significantly higher (p<0.05) than those achieved by pET-28a-ompA-hly antigen alone. OmpA-hly antigen-loaded PLGA microsphere vaccine uniquely conferred a long lasting (30 days) sterile immunity against challenge infection. Results indicated that ompA-hly antigen-loaded PLGA microsphere vaccine is a qualified candidate vector system for sterile protective immunity against A. hydrophila and A. veronii infections.
Humoral response and antiviral cytokine expression following vaccination of thoroughbred weanlings--a blinded comparison of commercially available vaccines.	Previous studies in experimental ponies using interferon gamma (IFN-γ) as a marker for cell mediated immune (CMI) response demonstrated an increase in IFN-γ gene expression following vaccination with an ISCOM subunit, a canarypox recombinant and more recently, an inactivated whole virus vaccine. The objective of this study was to carry out an independent comparison of both humoral antibody and CMI responses elicited following vaccination with all these vaccine presentation systems. Antibody response of 44 Thoroughbred weanlings was monitored for three weeks following the second dose of primary vaccination (V2) by single radial haemolysis (SRH). The pattern of antibody response was similar for all vaccines. The antibody response of horses vaccinated with the inactivated whole virus vaccine (Duvaxyn IE-T Plus) was superior to that of the horses vaccinated with the ISCOM-matrix subunit (Equilis Prequenza Te) and canarypox recombinant (ProteqFlu-Te) vaccine. In this study 39% of weanlings failed to seroconvert following their first dose of primary vaccination (V1). Poor response to vaccination (H3N8) was observed among weanlings vaccinated with Equilis Prequenza Te and ProteqFlu-Te but not among those vaccinated with Duvaxyn IE-T Plus. PAXgene bloods were collected on days 0, 2, 7 and 14 following V1. Gene expression levels of IFN-γ, IL-1β (proinflammatory cytokine) and IL-4 (B cell stimulating cytokine) were measured using RT-PCR. Mean gene expression levels of IL-1β and IL-4 peaked on day 14 post vaccination. The increase in IL-4 gene expression by horses vaccinated with Equilis Prequenza Te was significantly greater to those vaccinated with the other two products. Vaccination with all three vaccines resulted in a significant increase in IFN-γ gene expression which peaked at 7 days post V1. Overall, there was no significant difference in IFN-γ gene expression by the horses vaccinated with the whole inactivated, the subunit and the canarypox recombinant vaccines included in this study. 
Oral immunization of fish against iridovirus infection using recombinant antigen produced from rice callus.	Fish iridoviruses cause systemic diseases with high morbidity and mortality in various species of wild and farm-raised fish, resulting in severe economic losses, and no large-scale protective vaccine program or therapy is currently available. In this study, we expressed a recombinant major capsid protein (rMCP) of rock bream iridovirus in transgenic rice callus. The rMCP in lyophilized rice callus powder was added to feed to induce intestinal mucosal immunity for protection against and/or to reduce the severity of the iridovirus infection. We found that fish (Rock bream) immunized orally with rMCP underwent successful induction of antibodies (P<0.05) and were protected (P<0.001) against viral challenge. These results suggest that oral administration of rMCP as an antigen is a useful method to implement a vaccine program against iridovirus and other marine viral diseases. 
A novel baculovirus vector shows efficient gene delivery of modified porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus antigens and elicits specific immune response.	Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) is an economically devastating epizootic of porcine species. Current vaccines are inadequate to control the disease burden and outbreaks in the field. We report a novel baculovirus vaccine vector with White spot syndrome virus immediate early 1 shuttle promoter, with strong activity in both insect cells and mammalian cells, for immunization against PRRSV. The insect cell cultured baculovirus vector produces PRRSV envelope glycoproteins ORF2a, ORF3, ORF4 and ORF5, which are similar to the antigens in the infectious PRRS virion, and these antigens are stably incorporated on the surface of the baculovirus. Further, the baculovirus vector efficiently transduces these antigens in cells of porcine origin, thereby simulating a live infection. The baculovirus vectored PRRSV antigens, upon inoculation in mice, elicits robust neutralizing antibodies against the infective PRRS virus. Further, the experiments indicate that hitherto under emphasized ORF2a and ORF4 are important target antigens for neutralizing PRRSV infectivity. 
Broadly protective protein-based pneumococcal vaccine composed of pneumolysin toxoid-CbpA peptide recombinant fusion protein.	 Pneumococcus, meningococcus, and Haemophilus influenzae cause a similar spectrum of infections in the ear, lung, blood, and brain. They share cross-reactive antigens that bind to the laminin receptor of the blood-brain barrier as a molecular basis for neurotropism, and this step in pathogenesis was addressed in vaccine design.
Safety and immunogenicity of a single oral dose of recombinant double mutant heat-labile toxin derived from enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli.	Enterotoxigenic Escherichia coli (ETEC) is a primary cause of traveler's diarrhea for which there is no licensed vaccine. This phase 1 trial determined the safety and immunogenicity of a recombinantly produced double mutant heat-labile enterotoxin (dmLT) of ETEC. It was administered as a single oral dose of dmLT in escalating doses of 5 μg, 25 μg, 50 μg, and 100 μg, followed by a 72-h inpatient observation, outpatient visits at 8, 14, and 28 days, and telephone calls at 2 and 6 months postvaccination. Safety was assessed by frequency of adverse events, and immune responses determined after immunization included dmLT-specific serum IgA and IgG, fecal IgA, antibody-secreting cells (ASC), and antibodies in lymphocyte supernatant (ALS) responses. All doses were well tolerated by the 36 healthy adults enrolled. Immune responses were limited in the 5- and 25-μg dose recipients. The 50-μg dose recipients trended toward stronger responses than the 100-μg dose recipients by serum IgA (67% versus 33%, P = 0.22), serum IgG (58% versus 33%, P = 0.41), and fecal IgA (58% versus 33%, P = 0.41). By day 14 postvaccination, there were significantly more positive responders (≥4-fold increase from baseline) among the 50- versus 100-μg dose recipients for serum IgA (P = 0.036) but not serum IgG (P = 0.21). In conclusion, a single oral dose of dmLT was well tolerated and immunogenic, with immune responses plateauing at the 50-μg dose. (This clinical trial is registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov, registration number NCT01147445.). 
Identification of proteins of Propionibacterium acnes for use as vaccine candidates to prevent infection by the pig pathogen Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae.	Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae is the causative agent of acute and chronic pleuroneumonia that is responsible for substantial morbidity and mortality in the pig industry. New improved vaccines that can protect against all serotypes and prevent colonization are required. In a previous study we showed that whole cells of Propionibacterium acnes protected pigs from A. pleuropneumoniae serotype 1 and 5 and, therefore, the basis for a promising heterologous vaccine. The aim of this study was to identify those protein antigens of P. acnes responsible for protection against A. pleuropneumoniae infection. Six P. acnes protein antigens that were recognized by sera raised against A. pleuropneumoniae were identified by 2-DE and immunoblotting. Recombinant versions of all P. acnes proteins gave partial protection (10-80%) against A. pleuropneumoniae serotype 1 and/or 5 infection in a mouse challenge model. The best protection (80% serotype 1; 60% serotype 5) was obtained using recombinant P. acnes single-stranded DNA-binding protein. In part, protection against A. pleuropneumoniae infection may be mediated by small peptide sequences present in P. acnes single-stranded DNA-binding protein that are cross-reactive with those present in the A. pleuropneumoniae-specific RTX toxin ApxIV and the zinc-binding protein ZnuA. The results suggest that P. acnes may be a useful vaccine to protect against different serotypes of A. pleuropneumoniae. 
Bovine papillomavirus-like particles presenting conserved epitopes from membrane-proximal external region of HIV-1 gp41 induced mucosal and systemic antibodies.	Two conserved epitopes, located in the membrane-proximal external region (MPER) of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) gp41, are recognized by two HIV-1 broadly neutralizing antibodies 2F5 and 4E10, and are promising targets for vaccine design in efforts to elicit anti-HIV-1 broadly neutralizing antibodies. Since most HIV-1 infections initiate at mucosal surfaces, induction of mucosal neutralizing antibodies is necessary and of utmost importance to counteract HIV-1 infection. Here, we utilized a mucosal vaccine vector, bovine papillomavirus (BPV) virus-like particles (VLPs), as a platform to present HIV-1 neutralizing epitopes by inserting the extended 2F5 or 4E10 epitope or the MPER domain into D-E loop of BPV L1 respectively. The chimeric VLPs presenting MPER domain resembled the HIV-1 natural epitopes better than the chimeric VLPs presenting single epitopes. Oral immunization of mice with the chimeric VLPs displaying the 2F5 epitope or MPER domain elicited epitope-specific serum IgGs and mucosal secretory IgAs. The induced antibodies specifically recognized the native conformation of MPER in the context of HIV-1 envelope protein. The antibodies induced by chimeric VLPs presenting MPER domain are able to partially neutralize HIV-1 viruses from clade B and clade C. 
A subunit vaccine candidate derived from a classic H5N1 avian influenza virus in China protects fowls and BALB/c mice from lethal challenge.	In recent years, numerous human infections with avian influenza viruses in Asia have raised the concern that the next influenza pandemic is imminent. The most effective way to combat human avian influenza is through vaccination of the public. In this study, we developed an influenza A recombinant protein (rH5HA) directed against the hemagglutinin (HA) of a classic H5N1 high pathogenic avian influenza virus isolated in South China in 1996. Following purification of the recombinant protein expressed from a baculovirus expression system, we evaluated the efficiency of rH5HA on specific pathogen free (SPF) chicken, commercial chicken, and in BALB/c mice in an infection-protection model. The results demonstrated that rH5HA induced antibody responses and provided full protection in both SPF chickens and commercial chickens. Protective immunity was generated within 2 weeks in chickens as young as 7-day post-hatch using a minimum amount of rH5HA protein (2μg/bird/vaccination). The serum antibody generated from rH5HA immunization was protective and lasted more than 6 months. Our data also demonstrated that rH5HA immunization protected BALB/c mice from a lethal challenge with pathogenic avian influenza virus. These results suggested that vaccination with rH5HA could be a vaccine candidate for the control of H5N1 avian influenza in poultry, in mice, and potentially in other mammals including human. 
NDV-3 protects mice from vulvovaginal candidiasis through T- and B-cell immune response.	We have previously reported that vaccination with rAls3p-N protein of Candida albicans, formulated with alum adjuvant (also designated as NDV-3) protects immunocompetent mice from, lethal disseminated candidiasis and mucosal oropharyngeal candidiasis. NDV-3 vaccine was recently, tested in a Phase 1 clinical trial and found to be safe, well-tolerated, and induced robust humoral and, cellular immune responses with increased interferon (IFN)-gamma and interleukin (IL)-17 secretion. In preparation for a Phase 2 clinical trial against vulvovaginal candidiasis (VVC), we evaluated NDV-3, efficacy in a murine VVC model. Here, NDV-3 induced a strong immune response characterized by high, anti-rAls3p-N serum IgG and vaginal IgA titers. Furthermore, moderate doses of the vaccine (a range of 1-30μg given subcutaneously [SQ] or 0.3-10μg given intramuscularly [IM]) elicited a 10-1000 fold, decrease in vaginal fungal burden vs. control (mice injected with alum adjuvant alone) in both inbred, and outbred mice infected with different clinical C. albicans isolates. Additionally, NDV-3 required both, T and B lymphocytes for efficacy in reducing C. albicans tissue burden, which is followed by a reduction, in neutrophil influx to the affected site. Finally, anti-rAls3p-N antibodies enhanced the ex vivo killing, of C. albicans by neutrophils primed with IFN-gamma. These data indicate that NDV-3 protects mice, from VVC by a mechanism that involves the concerted priming of both humoral and adaptive immune, responses. 
Evaluation of safety and immunogenicity of recombinant influenza hemagglutinin (H5/Indonesia/05/2005) formulated with and without a stable oil-in-water emulsion containing glucopyranosyl-lipid A (SE+GLA) adjuvant.	Expression of recombinant hemagglutinin (rHA) in insect cells represents a technology with proven efficacy in seasonal influenza and with the potential for a rapid response to the emergence of new, pandemic strains. We evaluated the safety and immunogenicity of rHA vaccine (H5/Indonesia/5/05) produced in SF+ insect cells using a baculovirus expression vector system (BEVS). The rHA vaccine was tested with and without the adjuvant glucopyranosyl lipid A/stable emulsion (GLA/SE).
Immune responses of mice immunized by DNA plasmids encoding PCV2 ORF 2 gene, porcine IL-15 or the both.	Porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2) is associated with many kinds of diseases including postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS). It affects the immune system of swine and causes huge epidemic losses every year. In our previous study, we provided evidence that DNA plasmid bearing porcine IL-15 (pVAX-pIL-15) might serve as an immune enhancer for DNA plasmid encoding porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus GP5 gene. In this study, PCV2 open reading frame (ORF)2 gene was cloned into the eukaryotic expression vector pVAX, resulting in the plasmid pVAX-PCV2-ORF2. Transient expression of the plasmid in BHK-21 cells could be detected using immunofluorescence assay. Experimental mice were divided into 5 groups and immunized with PBS, pVAX, pVAX-pIL-15, pVAX-PCV2-ORF2 or pVAX-pIL-15 plus pVAX-PCV2-ORF2. The results showed that the mice co-inoculated with pVAX-PCV2-ORF2 plus pVAX-pIL-15 had higher humoral and cellular immune responses than the others. In addition, DNA plasmid bearing PCV2 ORF2 gene had a protective effect against challenge with PCV2 in mice which could be promoted with the utilization of pIL-15. 
Intranasal immunization with a non-adjuvanted adhesive protein descended from Pasteurella pneumotropica and its preventive efficacy against opportunistic infection in mice.	Intranasal vaccination is one of the most effective means of protecting against invading and colonizing pathogens because the vaccine elicits a mucosal immune response. The exploitation of vaccine adjuvants and delivery systems for intranasal vaccines is an important way to evoke antigen immunogenicity and elicit a better immune response at the mucosal sites. In the present study, we assessed the potential of intranasal immunization using a non-adjuvanted bacterial adhesive protein toward the host organs. We evaluated intranasal immunization with modified recombinant PnxIIIA (MP3) from Pasteurella pneumotropica and its preventive efficacy against opportunistic infection caused by P. pneumotropica, without using any adjuvants or delivery systems. The 100-kDa MP3 was confirmed to retain its immunogenicity and binding activity to collagen type I similar to the parent PnxIIIA. When MP3 was fused to green-fluorescent protein and inoculated into C57BL/6J mice intranasally, fluorescence intensity in the intranasal airway could be observed until 3 h after inoculation. Mice were intranasally immunized with MP3 at a maximum of 4 doses, with 7-day intervals. The antibody titer of serum IgG and IgA specific for MP3, as well as that of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid IgA, showed more than 9 (log₂) after 3 or 4 rounds of immunization. Experimentally infecting immunized mice with P. pneumotropica resulted in the inability to isolate the bacterium from the nasal cavity, trachea, conjunctiva, or cecum with more than 3 doses in the immunized mice. Although the detection in each organ seldom changed with less than 2 rounds of immunization, unlike that observed in the non-immunized mice, the detection remarkably decreased with 3 or more rounds of immunization. These results suggest that intranasal immunization with a non-adjuvanted adhesive protein could have preventive effects against opportunistic infection by P. pneumotropica.
Assembly and immunogenicity of coronavirus-like particles carrying infectious bronchitis virus M and S proteins.	Infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) as an avian coronavirus is still posing a persistent and imminent threat to the poultry industry worldwide. Here we report that transfection of Sf9 cells with a single recombinant baculovirus encoding M and S proteins resulted in the assembly of IBV VLPs; this is the first report that S protein plus M protein alone were able to be assembled into VLPs for coronaviruses. We further showed that the generated IBV VLPs could induce humoral immune responses in a level comparable to that of inactivated IBV vaccine, and more importantly the IBV VLPs could elicit significantly higher cellular immune responses than the inactivated IBV vaccine. In summary, the assembly of IBV VLPs with M and S proteins provided a simple strategy for generating VLPs for coronaviruses, and the generated IBV VLPs laid a feasible foundation for the development of an effective vaccine against infection of IBV in the future. 
Safety and infectivity of two doses of live-attenuated recombinant cold-passaged human parainfluenza type 3 virus vaccine rHPIV3cp45 in HPIV3-seronegative young children.	Human parainfluenza virus type 3 (HPIV3) is a common cause of upper and lower respiratory tract illness in infants and young children. Live-attenuated cold-adapted HPIV3 vaccines have been evaluated in infants but a suitable interval for administration of a second dose of vaccine has not been defined.
Recombinant protein YbgF induces protective immunity against Rickettsia heilongjiangensis infection in C3H/HeN mice.	Surface proteins YbgF and PrsA are major seroreactive antigens of Rickettsia heilongjiangensis, the etiological agent of Far-Eastern spotted fever. This study investigated their potential immunogenicity for protective immunity.
Microbially synthesized modular virus-like particles and capsomeres displaying group A streptococcus hypervariable antigenic determinants.	Effective and low-cost vaccines are essential to control severe group A streptococcus (GAS) infections prevalent in low-income nations and the Australian aboriginal communities. Highly diverse and endemic circulating GAS strains mandate broad-coverage and customized vaccines. This study describes an approach to deliver cross-reactive antigens from endemic GAS strains using modular virus-like particle (VLP) and capsomere systems. The antigens studied were three heterologous N-terminal peptides (GAS1, GAS2, and GAS3) from the GAS surface M-protein that are specific to endemic strains in Australia Northern Territory Aboriginal communities. In vivo data presented here demonstrated salient characteristics of the modular delivery systems in the context of GAS vaccine design. First, the antigenic peptides, when delivered by unadjuvanted modular VLPs or adjuvanted capsomeres, induced high titers of peptide-specific IgG antibodies (over 1 × 10(4) ). Second, delivery by capsomere was superior to VLP for one of the peptides investigated (GAS3), demonstrating that the delivery system relative effectiveness was antigen-dependant. Third, significant cross-reactivity of GAS2-induced IgG with GAS1 was observed using either VLP or capsomere, showing the possibility of broad-coverage vaccine design using these delivery systems and cross-reactive antigens. Fourth, a formulation containing three pre-mixed modular VLPs, each at a low dose of 5 μg (corresponding to <600 ng of each GAS peptide), induced significant titers of IgGs specific to each peptide, demonstrating that a multivalent, broad-coverage VLP vaccine formulation was possible. In summary, the modular VLPs and capsomeres reported here demonstrate, with promising preliminary data, innovative ways to design GAS vaccines using VLP and capsomere delivery systems amenable to microbial synthesis, potentially adoptable by developing countries.
Formulation of Newcastle disease virus coupled calcium phosphate nanoparticles: an effective strategy for oculonasal delivery to chicken.	In this report, calcium phosphate (CaP) nanoparticles were synthesized by continuous flow method using β-cyclodextrin (β-CD) as a medium and functionalized with amino propyl triethoxy silane (APTES). The blood biocompatibility of the nanoparticles was assessed using the whole blood haemolysis, erythrocytes haemolysis and erythrocyte aggregation tests. Based on the results, we found that the synthesized β-CD-CaP nanoparticles did not cause any remarkable toxic effect. The 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay of chicken peripheral blood mononucleated cells (PBMCs) incubated with these nanoparticles indicated that these particles did not exert any significant cytotoxicity. The aminosilane functional group modified β-CD-CaP was used as tool for coupling of Newcastle disease virus (NDV). The NDV conjugated nanoparticles were confirmed by using Fourier transformed infrared spectroscopy, X-ray diffraction patterns, Raman spectroscopy differential scanning calorimetry and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy. Immunogenicity trials in chickens proved that β-CD-CaP-NDV used as a vaccine was better than the commercial vaccine when given oculonasally during the first 2 weeks post vaccination. The birds vaccinated with the above nano-NDV vaccine were completely protected against virulent NDV challenge. This study confirms that the oculonasal β-CD-CaP-NDV delivery of vaccines is a potential method for enhancing the immune responses of existing commercial vaccines. 
Immunogenicity of different recombinant rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus-like particles carrying CD8+ T cell epitope from chicken ovalbumin (OVA).	To explore the capacity and immunogenicity of virus-like particles (VLPs) of rabbit hemorrhagic disease virus (RHDV) accommodating foreign amino acid sequences, integrations were performed at the following four locations of the structural protein VP60 of RHDV using the OVA257-264 CD8+ T cell epitope (SIINFEKL): (1) inserting at the N-terminus of the VP60 protein (N1); (2) replacing amino acid positions 2-14 of the VP60 protein (N2); (3) replacing amino acid positions 196-207 of the VP60 protein (I1); and (4) replacing amino acid positions 217-228 of the VP60 protein (I2). The recombinant proteins were expressed by baculovirus expression system. The ability to form RHDV-like particles was confirmed by electron microscopy. The immunogenicity of the four recombinant proteins (N1, N2, I1 and I2) was evaluated in mice without any adjuvants. The results indicated that the four recombinant proteins (N1, N2, I1 and I2) could assemble into VLPs. All of the recombinant proteins could induce a specific immune response. Recombinant proteins I1 and I2 were able to elicit both high levels of IFN-γ secretion and anti-VP60 specific immune responses in the murine model. The levels of the VP60-specific IgG antibody in groups I1 and I2 displayed higher optical density (OD) values than those of groups N1 and N2 (P<0.001, P<0.001). The number of IFN-γ-producing splenocytes in mice that were immunized with recombinant proteins I1 and I2 was also significantly greater compared with mice that were immunized with recombinant proteins N1 and N2 (P<0.01). All of these above mentioned results might be beneficial to the establishment of the RHDV-VLPs display system. 
Enhancing expression of the classical swine fever virus glycoprotein E2 in yeast and its application to a blocking ELISA.	Classical swine fever virus (CSFV) infection is a severe swine disease, often causing large economic losses. A Pichia pastoris yeast-expressed CSFV glycoprotein E2 (yE2) has been shown to induce a protective immune response against the virus. To improve the expression level of yE2, the first codon of E2 gene, Arg (CGG), which is the least used in P. pastoris, was optimized to the most favorite codon AGA. The yield of E2 protein was remarkably increased in the codon optimized strain (N342). Three truncated E2 subunits encoding the N-terminal 330 (N330), 301 (N301), and 190 (N190) residues, respectively, were also constructed. The immunogenicity of each recombinant E2 subunits was confirmed by immunization of pigs, and all immunized groups demonstrated high neutralizing antibody titers after boost immunization, which lasted for a long period of time. In addition, a monoclonal antibody (MAb), 1B6, specific to yE2, was generated and shown to recognize CSFV-infected cells. A panel of swine sera were tested by peroxidase-conjugated MAb 1B6-based blocking enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) using N330 as coated antigen, and the assay demonstrated high sensitivity and specificity. The recombinant yE2 subunits may provide potential subunit vaccine candidates and useful diagnostic reagents for CSFV with easy manipulation and low cost. 
Effects of peptide fraction and counter ion on the development of clinical signs in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis.	The most commonly used immunogen to induce experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis is MOG35-55 , a 21-residue peptide derived from myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG). In most studies, mice exhibit a chronic disease; however, in some studies mice show a transient disease. One variable that is not often controlled for is the peptide fraction of the purified MOG material, which can vary from less than 50% to over 90%, with the remainder of mass primarily comprised of the counter ion used for peptide purification. We compared the development of clinical signs in female C57Bl6 mice immunized with two commercially available MOG35-55 peptides of similar purity but different peptide fraction (MOG-A being 45%; MOG-B being 72%). A single immunization with MOG-A induced a chronic disease course with some recovery at later stages, whereas immunization with MOG-B induced a similar course of disease but with significantly lower average clinical scores despite a higher peptide content. The addition of a booster immunization significantly increased clinical severity with both preparations, and significantly reduced the average day of onset using MOG-A. To determine if the counter ion could influence disease, we compared MOG-B-containing trifluoroacetate with MOG-B-containing acetate. Although disease incidence and severity were similar, the average day of disease onset occurred approximately 5 days earlier with the use of MOG-B-containing trifluoroacetate. These results demonstrate that differences in peptide fraction influence the course of encephalomyelitis disease, which may be due in part to the levels of counter ions present in the purified material. These findings underscore the fact that a knowledge of peptide fraction is as critical as knowledge of peptide purity when using peptides from different sources.
Protection from lethal challenge in a neonatal mouse model by circulating recombinant form coxsackievirus A16 vaccine candidates.	Circulating coxsackievirus A16 (CA16) is a major cause of hand, foot and mouth disease (HFMD) in South-east Asia. At present, there is no vaccine against CA16. Pathogenic animal models that are sensitive to diverse circulating CA16 viruses would be desirable for vaccine development and evaluation. In this study, we isolated and characterized several circulating CA16 viruses from recent HFMD patients. These CA16 viruses currently circulating in humans were highly pathogenic in a newly developed neonatal mouse model; we also observed and analysed the pathogenesis of representative circulating recombinant form CA16 viruses. An inactivated CA16 vaccine candidate, formulated with alum adjuvant and containing submicrogram quantities of viral proteins, protected neonatal mice born to immunized female mice from lethal-dose challenge with a series of CA16 viruses. Further analysis of humoral immunity showed that antibody elicited from both the immunized dams and their pups could neutralize various lethal viruses by a cytopathic effect in vitro. Moreover, viral titres and loads in the tissues of challenged pups in the vaccine group were far lower than those in the control group, and some were undetectable. This lethal-challenge model using pathogenic CA16 viruses and the vaccine candidates that mediated protection in this model could be useful tools for the future development and evaluation of CA16 vaccines. 
Construction and characterization of a recombinant human adenovirus type 3 vector containing two foreign neutralizing epitopes in hexon.	The "antigen capsid-incorporation" strategy has been developed for adenovirus-based vaccines in the context of several diseases. Exogenous antigenic peptides incorporated into the adenovirus capsid structure can induce a robust and boosted antigen-specific immune response. Recently, we sought to generate a multivalent adenovirus type 3 (Ad3) vaccine vector by incorporating multiple epitopes into the major adenovirus capsid protein, hexon. In the present study, a multivalent recombinant Ad3 vaccine (R1R2A3) was constructed by homologous recombination, displaying two neutralizing epitopes from enterovirus type 71 (EV71) in hexon. The recombinant virus was confirmed by PCR, immunoblotting, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and injected into mice to analyze the epitope-specific humoral response. No differences were found between the viruses with two epitopes incorporated into the hypervariable regions (HVR1 and HVR2) of hexon and Ad3EGFP, based on thermostability and growth kinetic tests. Both the epitopes are thought to be exposed on the hexon-modified intact virion surface. The repeated administration of the modified adenovirus R1R2A3 to BALB/c mice boosted the humoral immune response against both epitopes. Immunization with recombinant virus R1R2A3 elicited higher IgG titers and higher neutralization titers against EV71 in vitro than immunization with the modified adenovirus with only one epitope incorporated into HVR1. In this study, the recombinant R1R2A3 virus expressing two exogenous neutralizing epitopes in hexon HVR1 and HVR2 induced specific immune responses to both foreign epitopes. Our study contributes to a better understanding of hexon-modified Ad vector as a multiple-epitope delivery vehicle. 
Sublingual administration of a helper-dependent adenoviral vector expressing the codon-optimized soluble fusion glycoprotein of human respiratory syncytial virus elicits protective immunity in mice.	Sublingual (s.l.) immunization has been described as a convenient and safe way to induce mucosal immune responses in the respiratory and genital tracts. We constructed a helper-dependent adenoviral (HDAd) vector expressing a condon-optimized soluble fusion glycoprotein (sFsyn) of respiratory syncytial virus (HDAd-sFsyn) and explored the potential of s.l. immunization with HDAd-sFsyn to stimulate immune responses in the respiratory mucosa. The RSV specific systemic and mucosal immune responses were generated in BALB/c mice, and the serum IgG with neutralizing activity was significantly elevated after homologous boost with s.l. application of HDAd-sFsyn. Humoral immune responses could be measured even 14weeks after a single immunization. Upon challenge, s.l. immunization with HDAd-sFsyn displayed an effective protection against RSV infection. These findings suggest that s.l. administration of HDAd-sFsyn acts as an effective and safe mucosal vaccine against RSV infection, and may be a useful tool in the prevention of RSV infection. 
Local control of repeated-dose rectal challenges in DNA/MVA-vaccinated macaques protected against a first series of simian immunodeficiency virus challenges.	Here, we report the results of a late boost and three additional series of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV) challenges in seven DNA/modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA)-vaccinated rhesus macaques who resisted a first series of rectal challenges. During 29 additional challenges delivered over 2.3 years, all animals became infected. However, 13 blips of virus in six macaques and anamnestic Env-specific rectal IgA responses in three of the six suggested that local control of infections was occurring during the serial challenge. 
Combined adenovirus vector and hepatitis C virus envelope protein prime-boost regimen elicits T cell and neutralizing antibody immune responses.	Despite the recent progress in the development of new antiviral agents, hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection remains a major global health problem, and there is a need for a preventive vaccine. We previously reported that adenoviral vectors expressing HCV nonstructural proteins elicit protective T cell responses in chimpanzees and were immunogenic in healthy volunteers. Furthermore, recombinant HCV E1E2 protein formulated with adjuvant MF59 induced protective antibody responses in chimpanzees and was immunogenic in humans. To develop an HCV vaccine capable of inducing both T cell and antibody responses, we constructed adenoviral vectors expressing full-length and truncated E1E2 envelope glycoproteins from HCV genotype 1b. Heterologous prime-boost immunization regimens with adenovirus and recombinant E1E2 glycoprotein (genotype 1a) plus MF59 were evaluated in mice and guinea pigs. Adenovirus prime and protein boost induced broad HCV-specific CD8+ and CD4+ T cell responses and functional Th1-type IgG responses. Immune sera neutralized luciferase reporter pseudoparticles expressing HCV envelope glycoproteins (HCVpp) and a diverse panel of recombinant cell culture-derived HCV (HCVcc) strains and limited cell-to-cell HCV transmission. This study demonstrated that combining adenovirus vector with protein antigen can induce strong antibody and T cell responses that surpass immune responses achieved by either vaccine alone.
Immunization with H7-HCP-tir-intimin significantly reduces colonization and shedding of Escherichia coli O157:H7 in goats.	Enterohemorrhagic Escherichia coli (EHEC) O157:H7 is the causative agent of hemorrhagic colitis and hemolytic uremic syndrome in humans. However, the bacterium can colonize the intestines of ruminants without causing clinical signs. EHEC O157:H7 needs flagella (H7) and hemorrhagic coli pili (HCP) to adhere to epithelial cells. Then the bacterium uses the translocated intimin receptor (Tir) and an outer membrane adhesion (Intimin) protein to colonize hosts. This leads to the attachment and effacement of (A/E) lesions. A tetravalent recombinant vaccine (H7-HCP-Tir-Intimin) composed of immunologically important portions of H7, HCP, Tir and Intimin proteins was constructed and its efficacy was evaluated using a caprine model. The results showed that the recombinant vaccine induced strong humoral and mucosal immune responses and protected the subjects from live challenges with EHEC O157:H7 86-24 stain. After a second immunization, the average IgG titer peaked at 7.2 × 10(5). Five days after challenge, E. coli O157:H7 was no longer detectable in the feces of vaccinated goats, but naïve goats shed the bacterium throughout the course of the challenge. Cultures of intestinal tissues showed that vaccination of goats with H7-HCP-Tir-Intimin reduced the amount of intestinal colonization by EHEC O157:H7 effectively. Recombinant H7-HCP-Tir-Intimin protein is an excellent vaccine candidate. Data from the present study warrant further efficacy studies aimed at reducing EHEC O157:H7 load on farms and the contamination of carcasses by this zoonotic pathogen.
Monovalent H5 vaccine based on epitope-chimeric HA provides broad cross-clade protection against variant H5N1 viruses in mice.	H5N1 HPAI virus continues to be a severe threat for public health, as well as for the poultry industry, due to its high mortality and antigenic drift rate. There is no monovalent vaccine available which provides broad protection against those major circulating strains. In the present study, a monovalent H5 vaccine strain was developed with antigenic sequence analysis and epitope mutations. H5 from Indonesia strain (A/Indonesia/CDC669/2006) was used as backbone sequence. Three amino acids were mutated to express immunogenic epitopes from other circulating H5N1s in the backbone. RG influenza virus expressing the epitope-chimeric H5 can react in HI with multiple H5 monoclonal antibodies which fail to neutralize wild type CDC669. High titers in HI and virus neutralization against different clades H5N1s (clade 1, 2, 4 and 7) were detected using sera from mice immunized with the epitope-chimeric H5N1. The monovalent vaccine with RG-epitope-chimeric H5N1 protected mice from lethal challenge with H5N1s of different clades, including clade 1.0, 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3. This study indicates that the broad immune response elicited by this single H5N1 virus allows it to be a promising candidate for a monovalent H5 universal vaccine. 
Cryogenic transmission electron microscopy of recombinant tuberculosis vaccine antigen with anionic liposomes reveals formation of flattened liposomes.	Development of lipid-based adjuvant formulations to enhance the immunogenicity of recombinant vaccine antigens is a focus of modern vaccine research. Characterizing interactions between vaccine antigens and formulation excipients is important for establishing compatibility between the different components and optimizing vaccine stability and potency. Cryogenic transmission electron microscopy (TEM) is a highly informative analytical technique that may elucidate various aspects of protein- and lipid-based structures, including morphology, size, shape, and phase structure, while avoiding artifacts associated with staining-based TEM. In this work, cryogenic TEM is employed to characterize a recombinant tuberculosis vaccine antigen, an anionic liposome formulation, and antigen-liposome interactions. By performing three-dimensional tomographic reconstruction analysis, the formation of a population of protein-containing flattened liposomes, not present in the control samples, was detected. It is shown that cryogenic TEM provides unique information regarding antigen-liposome interactions not detectable by light-scattering-based methods. Employing a suite of complementary analytical techniques is important to fully characterize interactions between vaccine components. 
Sm10.3, a member of the micro-exon gene 4 (MEG-4) family, induces erythrocyte agglutination in vitro and partially protects vaccinated mice against Schistosoma mansoni infection.	The parasitic flatworm Schistosoma mansoni is a blood fluke that causes schistosomiasis. Current schistosomiasis control strategies are mainly based on chemotherapy, but many researchers believe that the best long-term strategy to control disease is a combination of drug treatment and immunization with an anti-schistosome vaccine. Numerous antigens that are expressed at the interface between the parasite and the mammalian host have been assessed. Among the most promising molecules are the proteins present in the tegument and digestive tract of the parasite.
Development of a novel, single-cycle replicable rift valley Fever vaccine.	Rift Valley fever virus (RVFV) (genus Phlebovirus, family Bunyaviridae) is an arbovirus that causes severe disease in humans and livestock in sub-Saharan African countries. Although the MP-12 strain of RVFV is a live attenuated vaccine candidate, neuroinvasiveness and neurovirulence of MP-12 in mice may be a concern when vaccinating certain individuals, especially those that are immunocompromised. We have developed a novel, single-cycle replicable MP-12 (scMP-12), which carries an L RNA, M RNA mutant encoding a mutant envelope protein lacking an endoplasmic reticulum retrieval signal and defective for membrane fusion function, and S RNA encoding N protein and green fluorescent protein. The scMP-12 underwent efficient amplification, then formed plaques and retained the introduced mutation after serial passages in a cell line stably expressing viral envelope proteins. However, inoculation of the scMP-12 into naïve cells resulted in a single round of viral replication, and production of low levels of noninfectious virus-like particles. Intracranial inoculation of scMP-12 into suckling mice did not cause clinical signs or death, a finding which demonstrated that the scMP-12 lacked neurovirulence. Mice immunized with a single dose of scMP-12 produced neutralizing antibodies, whose titers were higher than in mice immunized with replicon particles carrying L RNA and S RNA encoding N protein and green fluorescent protein. Moreover, 90% of the scMP-12-immunized mice were protected from wild-type RVFV challenge by efficiently suppressing viremia and replication of the challenge virus in the liver and the spleen. These data demonstrated that scMP-12 is a safe and immunogenic RVFV vaccine candidate. 
Efficacy of an inactivated FeLV vaccine compared to a recombinant FeLV vaccine in minimum age cats following virulent FeLV challenge.	The aim of the study was to determine the efficacy of an inactivated feline leukemia virus (FeLV) vaccine (Versifel(®) FeLV, Zoetis.) compared to a recombinant FeLV vaccine (Purevax(®) FeLV, Merial Animal Health) in young cats, exposed under laboratory conditions to a highly virulent challenge model. The study was designed to be consistent with the general immunogenicity requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia 6.0 Monograph 01/2008:1321-Feline Leukaemia Vaccine (Inactivated) with the exception that commercial-strength vaccines were assessed. Fifty seronegative cats (8-9 weeks old) were vaccinated subcutaneously on two occasions, three weeks apart, with either placebo (treatment group T01), Versifel FeLV Vaccine (treatment group T02), or Purevax FeLV Vaccine (treatment group T03) according to the manufacturer's directions. Cats were challenged three weeks after the second vaccination with a virulent FeLV isolate (61E strain). Persistent FeLV antigenemia was determined from 3 to 15 weeks postchallenge. Bone marrow samples were tested for the presence of FeLV proviral DNA to determine FeLV latent infection. At week 15 after challenge with the virulent FeLV 61E strain, the Versifel FeLV Vaccine conferred 89.5% protection against FeLV persistent antigenemia and 94.7% protection against FeLV proviral DNA integration in bone marrow cells. In comparison, the Purevax FeLV Vaccine conferred 20% protection against FeLV persistent antigenemia and 35% protection against FeLV proviral DNA integration in bone marrow cells following challenge. The data from this study show that the Versifel FeLV Vaccine was efficacious in preventing both FeLV persistent p27 antigenemia and FeLV proviral DNA integration in bone marrow cells of cats challenged with this particular challenge model under laboratory conditions and provided better protection than Purevax FeLV in this experimental challenge model with highly virulent FeLV. 
A new rotavirus VP6-based foreign epitope presenting vector and immunoreactivity of VP4 epitope chimeric proteins.	The VP6, the group antigenic rotavirus (RV), is highly conserved and the most abundant, constituting about 39% of the viral structure proteins by weight. The high degree of identity (>87%-99%) in the primary amino acid sequences suggests VP6-based vaccines could potentially provide heterotypic protection. Although some efforts have been made toward producing recombinant rotavirus VP6 vaccines, the native VP6 is still unsatisfactory as an optimal vaccine. The major neutralizing antigenic epitopes that exist on VP4 or VP7 are not on the native VP6, and as a vector the native VP6 lacks insertion sites that can be used for insertion of foreign epitopes. In this study, a new foreign epitope presenting system using VP6 as a vector (VP6F) was constructed on the outer surface of the vector six sites that could be used for insertion of the foreign epitopes created. Using this system, three VP6-based VP4 epitope chimeric proteins were constructed. Results showed that these chimeric proteins reacted with anti-VP6 and -VP4 antibodies, and elicited antibodies against VP6 and VP4 in guinea pigs. Antibodies against VP6F or antibodies against the chimeric proteins neutralized RV Wa and SA11 infection in vitro. It is optimistic that the limitation for using the native VP6 as a vaccine candidate or vector will be solved with our proposed approach. It is expected that this VP6-based epitope presenting system and the VP6-based VP4 epitope chimeric proteins will be valuable for and contribute to the development of novel RV vaccines and vaccine vectors.
Influenza viral vectors expressing the Brucella OMP16 or L7/L12 proteins as vaccines against B. abortus infection.	We generated novel, effective candidate vaccine against Brucella abortus based on recombinant influenza viruses expressing the Brucella ribosomal protein L7/L12 or outer membrane protein (Omp)-16 from the NS1 open reading frame. The main purpose of this work was to evaluate the safety, immunogenicity and protectiveness of vaccine candidate in laboratory animals.
Cross-protective immune responses between genotypically distinct lineages of infectious laryngotracheitis viruses.	Recent phylogenetic studies have identified different genotypic lineages of infectious laryngotracheitis virus (ILTV), and these lineages can recombine in the field. The emergence of virulent recombinant field strains of ILTV by natural recombination between commercial vaccines belonging to different genotypic lineages has been reported recently. Despite the use of attenuated ILTV vaccines, these recombinant viruses were able to spread and cause disease in commercial poultry flocks, raising the question of whether the different lineages of ILTV can induce cross-protective immune responses. This study examined the capacity of the Australian-origin A20 ILTV vaccine to protect against challenge with the class 8 ILTV recombinant virus, the genome of which is predominantly derived from a heterologous genotypic lineage. Following challenge, birds vaccinated via eyedrop were protected from clinical signs of disease and pathological changes in the tracheal mucosa, although they were not completely protected from viral infection or replication. In contrast, the challenge virus induced severe clinical signs and tracheal pathology in unvaccinated birds. This is the first study to examine the ability of a vaccine from the Australian lineage to protect against challenge with a virus from a heterologous lineage. These results suggest that the two distinct genotypic lineages of ILTV can both induce cross-protection, indicating that current commercial vaccines are still likely to assist in control of ILTV in the poultry industry, in spite of the emergence of novel recombinants derived from different genotypic lineages.
Summary of safety and efficacy data on a yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine.	Recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid technology has permitted the development of a vaccine from the hepatitis B surface antigen expressed in genetically manipulated yeast cells. Clinical trials with the vaccine were started in February 1984 and, to date, have involved more than 12,500 persons. The vaccine has been shown to be safe, well tolerated, and immunogenic in healthy persons of all ages and in special target groups likely to require vaccination. The vaccine's protective efficacy has been established in three groups at high risk for hepatitis B infection--homosexual men, institutionalized mentally handicapped patients, and neonates of mothers who are chronic carriers. Production of this vaccine on a large scale should make it less expensive than plasma-derived vaccines and thus broaden the indications for vaccination.
Protective efficacy of a recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid hepatitis B vaccine in institutionalized mentally handicapped clients.	Mentally handicapped clients in institutions are at high risk for hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection. In 1985, 770 mentally handicapped residents from four institutions in the Antwerp area were screened for HBV markers. The prevalence of hepatitis B surface antigen was 10.3 percent (range, 6.1 to 15.2 percent); 42.3 percent (range, 11.5 to 60.1 percent) had antibodies to hepatitis B surface antigen and the hepatitis B core antigen. In 1986, 275 seronegative mentally handicapped residents were vaccinated intramuscularly in the deltoid region with 20 micrograms (1.0 ml) of a recombinant deoxyribonucleic acid yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine (Engerix-B, SmithKline Biologicals, Rixensart, Belgium) on a zero-, one-, six-month schedule. Serum samples were collected at Months 1, 2, 7, 12, and 24 and were tested for HBV markers by radioimmunoassay. The seroconversion rates for hepatitis B surface antigen antibodies were 39 percent at Month 1 (geometric mean concentration, 6.4 IU/liter), 82 percent at Month 2 (geometric mean concentration, 23.4 IU/liter), 97 percent at Month 7 (geometric mean concentration, 1,034 IU/liter), and 96 percent at Month 12 (geometric mean concentration, 269 IU/liter). Among the 214 residents evaluated at Month 12, 69 percent had hepatitis B surface antigen antibody levels greater than 100 IU/liter (geometric mean concentration, 603 IU/liter). No significant adverse reactions were observed. Within the first seven months of observation, HBV infection was detected in eight of 271 subjects (estimated annual incidence of 5 percent). During this period, none of the clients developed clinical hepatitis or showed biochemical evidence of liver damage. Between eight and 24 months, no additional HBV infections were detected. These data can be compared with an annual incidence of HBV infection of 8.7 percent in a historical cohort of mentally handicapped residents in one of the four institutions.
Tumour prevention and rejection with recombinant vaccinia.	Tumour-specific antigens (TSA; ref. 1) have been exploited in the diagnosis and imaging of human cancer and anti-TSA antibodies have therapeutic potential. Vaccination with TSA or anti-idiotypic (TSA) antibodies has also been used to control tumour growth in model systems. An effective immune response nevertheless demands copresentation of antigen with host histocompatibility determinants. We therefore examined whether live vaccinia virus recombinants expressing TSA in cells of the vaccinated host might better elicit tumour immunity. Polyoma virus (PY) is tumorigenic in rodents; because killed PY-transformed cells can elicit tumour immunity, a PY-specific TSA has been postulated. Tumorigenesis involves expression of three early PY proteins, large-T (LT), middle-T (MT) and small-T (ST), but their role as TSAs is unclear. We therefore expressed the three T proteins in separate vaccinia recombinants. Rejection of PY tumours was observed in rats immunized with recombinants expressing either LT or MT. Further, tumour-bearing animals could be induced to reject their tumours by inoculation of recombinants.
Successful oral rabies vaccination of raccoons with raccoon poxvirus recombinants expressing rabies virus glycoprotein.	Two infectious raccoon poxvirus (RCN) recombinants for expressing rabies virus surface spike glycoprotein (G) were produced by homologous recombination between raccoon poxvirus DNA and chimeric plasmids previously used for production of vaccinia virus recombinants. Expression of G protein was controlled by vaccinia virus promoter P7.5 (early/late class) or by P11 (late class). Immunoprecipitation of infected cell extracts indicated that both of the RCN recombinants directed faithful expression of G protein. Raccoons that were fed polyurethane baits loaded with either recombinant quickly developed high levels of rabies virus neutralizing antibodies and were protected when challenged with lethal raccoon rabies street virus.
Immune and histopathological responses in animals vaccinated with recombinant vaccinia viruses that express individual genes of human respiratory syncytial virus.	Previous reports have established that vaccinia virus (VV) recombinants expressing G, F, or N protein of respiratory syncytial (RS) virus protect small animals against intranasal challenge with live RS virus. This work demonstrates that a variety of parameters affect the protection induced by recombinant viruses. The route of vaccination, the subtype of challenge virus, and the species used influenced the antibody titers and extent of protection. During these studies, observations were also made on the subclass of antibody generated, and pulmonary histopathological changes induced by challenge after vaccination were noted. The effect of route of inoculation on host response was examined by vaccinating mice intranasally, intraperitoneally, or by scarification with a recombinant VV expressing the RS virus G glycoprotein. Intranasal vaccination induced 25-fold-higher titers of antibody to RS virus in the lung than the intraperitoneal route did, but both routes resulted in complete suppression of virus replication after intranasal challenge 21 days after vaccination. Scarification was a less effective method of vaccination. The antibody induced by recombinant VV in mice was mostly immunoglobulin G2a (IgG2a) with some IgG2b. No antibody to RS virus was detected in the IgA, IgM, IgG1, or IgG3 subclass irrespective of the vaccination route. The G and F glycoproteins were shown to elicit similar subclasses of antibody. However, animals vaccinated with the G and F vectors differed strikingly in their response to challenge by heterologous virus. Mice or cotton rats vaccinated with recombinant VV carrying the G gene of RS virus were protected against challenge only with homologous subtype A virus. Vaccination with a recombinant VV expressing the F glycoprotein induced protection against both homologous and heterologous subtype B virus challenge. The protection induced in mice was greater than that detected in cotton rats, indicating that the host may also affect immunity. Finally, this report describes histological examination of mouse lungs after vaccination and challenge. Vaccinated mice that were subsequently challenged had significantly greater lung lesion scores than unvaccinated challenged mice. The lesions were primarily peribronchiolar and perivascular infiltrations of polymorphonuclear cells and lymphocytes. Further work will establish whether these pulmonary changes are a desirable immune response to virus invasion or a potential immunopathogenic hazard. The results have important implications for planning a strategy of vaccination against RS virus and emphasize potential dangers that may attend the use of recombinant VV as vaccines.
Clinical development of a new recombinant DNA hepatitis B vaccine.	The clinical development plan for the new recombinant DNA yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine manufactured by SmithKline Biologicals is summarized. Initially, the emphasis was on assessing the risk of hypersensitivity to yeast-derived contaminants. This was followed by an evaluation of local and general reactions after vaccination. Next, the optimal dose of vaccine to be administered was ascertained followed by an evaluation of the efficacy of different vaccination schedules. The reactogenicity and immunogenicity of the yeast-derived vaccine was compared with that of two commercially available plasma-derived vaccines. The recombinant vaccine's protective efficacy was assessed in chimpanzees and by comparing attack rates in historical homosexual control groups with those in vaccinated homosexuals. Ongoing studies are investigating the protection of neonates born to HBeAg-positive carrier mothers.
Reactogenicity and immunogenicity of a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine compared with a plasma-derived vaccine in young adults.	A study of the immunogenicity and reactogenicity of three doses of lot L (10, 20, 40 micrograms), two doses of lot N (10, 20 micrograms) of the SmithKline Biologicals recombinant DNA yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine and a 20 micrograms dose of the Merck, Sharp & Dohme plasma-derived hepatitis B vaccine was conducted in young adults under randomized, double-blind conditions. Immunization was carried out according to a 0, 1, and 6 month vaccination schedule. Results indicated that the yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine was well tolerated and highly immunogenic. Reactogenicity to both yeast- and plasma-derived vaccines was mild in severity and low in incidence with no significant differences appearing between the study groups. One month after the third dose, the yeast-derived vaccines induced a high degree of seroconversion ranging between 97.8% and 100%. The response was not lot- or dose-dependent. The administration of the plasma-derived vaccine resulted in an anti-HBs geometric mean titre approximately twice as high as those elicited by the different yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine doses one month after the third inoculation. However, 11 months following the third dose of vaccine, the anti-HBs titres were similar in all groups. Revaccination of subjects who no longer had detectable anti-HBs one year after the last vaccine dose resulted in an anamnestic response.
Comparative multicentre study of the immunogenicity of different hepatitis B vaccines in healthy volunteers.	In a comparative study of the immunogenicity of different hepatitis B vaccines, 339 healthy seronegative adults at three different centres were randomly allocated to receive either three doses of a yeast-derived vaccine at one of three different dose levels (10, 20, or 40 micrograms; SmithKline Biologicals) or one of two commercial plasma-derived vaccines at standard dose levels (5 micrograms, Institut Pasteur Production or 20 micrograms, Merck Sharp & Dohme). The subjects were inoculated intramuscularly in the deltoid region according to a 0, 1, and 6 month schedule. No severe or serious adverse reactions attributed to any of the vaccines were observed. One month after the third vaccine dose, seroconversion rates ranged from 95% to 100% in all groups with only 6 subjects failing to seroconvert. Although there were no statistically significant intra-centre differences in antibody levels, the Tours/Chateauroux groups generally attained higher antibody levels than those from Limoges for the same yeast-derived vaccine dose. This unexplained difference between centres was not found for the plasma-derived vaccines. Older subjects responded less well than younger ones and females attained higher antibody levels than did males. The yeast-derived vaccine is comparable to the two commercially available plasma-derived vaccines in terms of reactogenicity and immunogenicity.
Immunogenicity of a recombinant hepatitis B vaccine in haemodialysis patients.	The immunogenicity of a recombinant yeast-derived hepatitis B vaccine was evaluated in a randomized trial involving 80 haemodialysis patients in which three 40 microgram doses were administered according to either a 0, 1, 2 month, or a 0, 1, 6 month vaccination schedule. The vaccine induced an anti-HBs seroconversion in 54% of patients who received the three doses at intervals of one month (Group A) and in 55% of those who were vaccinated at months 0, 1, and 6 (Group B). The geometric mean titres (GMT) seven months after the first injection were 37.7 IU/l in Group A and 91 IU/l in Group B. The seroconversion rate in men (53.6%) was slightly lower than in women (60%), and the respective GMTs were 33.3 and 78.5 IU/l. An age-dependent effect was noted in the anti-HBs response, but the type of renal disease and length of time on dialysis did not influence the antibody response. A 0, 1, and 2 month vaccination schedule seems preferable for haemodialysis patients as it induces more rapid protection.
Summary of clinical findings on Engerix-B, a genetically engineered yeast derived hepatitis B vaccine.	Between February 1984 and August 1986 results have been obtained in 58 completed or ongoing clinical studies by 33 investigators in 19 countries on a yeast-derived recombinant DNA hepatitis B vaccine (Engerix-B). Among the 6100 subjects enrolled in these studies, 5664 subjects (150 normal neonates, 178 neonates of hepatitis B carrier mothers, 330 children aged 3-10 years, 3697 young healthy adults, 438 homosexual males, 110 older healthy adults, 139 drug addicts, 262 institutionalized mentally retarded patients, 59 thalassaemics, 25 sicklaemics, 270 patients on chronic haemodialysis and 6 haemophiliacs) received one or more (up to 4) injections of different doses of the yeast-derived vaccine according to either a 0, 1, 2, and 12 month or a 0, 1, and 6 month vaccination schedule. In randomized comparative studies 436 subjects received either one of two commercially available plasma-derived vaccines. The results reviewed in the present summary have shown that Engerix-B is safe, clinically well tolerated, gives an anti-HBs response which is qualitatively and quantitatively similar to that obtained with plasma-derived vaccines and confers protection against infection and disease. Engerix-B can be considered as a valid alternative to existing hepatitis B vaccines.
Anti-HBV neonatal immunization with recombinant vaccine. Part I. Critical appraisal for a long-lived antibody course.	This study involved 912 infants born to HBsAg-negative mothers from 1 May 1991 to 30 June 1992. The subjects were randomly allocated to an accelerated (Group A) or traditional (Group B) immunization schedule and immunized with 10 micrograms of recombinant HBV vaccine. At the end of the vaccinal cycle 98.14% of both groups were protected against HBV with a high percentage of high responders (88.1% group B and 68% group A). Following a random plan, 345 of the initial 912 infants (144 group A and 201 group B) were serologically evaluated, 15-18 months after the booster dose, to identify the level of long-lasting specific antibody. The data obtained allowed us to identify the non-responder subjects after the seroconversion, to propose the evaluation of antibody titre after the booster dose of vaccine and, because one year after the booster dose 5.6% of the subjects responsive at seroconversion have shown undetectable anti-HBsAg titre, to propose the elevation of the antibody level considered as protective at the end of the vaccinal cycle.
Effective antibody response in newborn babies living in Maldives to simultaneous vaccination against hepatitis B, poliomyelitis, diphtheria and tetanus.	The antibody responses of Maldivian infants early in their life to simultaneous immunization against hepatitis B virus, poliomyelitis, diphtheria and tetanus were investigated. The vaccines were given at 6, 10 and 14 weeks of age. Among 243 newborn babies from HBsAg-negative mothers, 103 received three doses of oral poliomyelitis (OPV) and diphtheria and tetanus (DTV) vaccines; 105 were similarly immunized but received in addition the recombinant hepatitis B vaccine (HBV); 35 were immunized with the HBV recombinant vaccine alone. The antibody response to all of the vaccines was effective. No significant differences among the groups were observed. Hepatitis B vaccination of infants neither affected nor was affected by the contemporary administration of OPV and DTV vaccines.
Comparative study of the immunogenicity and safety of two dosing schedules of hepatitis B vaccine in neonates.	Healthy Egyptian neonates born to hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg)-seronegative mothers were randomly enrolled in one of three vaccination schedules. A dose of 2.5 micrograms of recombinant HB vaccine was given at birth, two, and six months of age (group A) or two, four, and nine months of age (group B). These two groups and a third control group (group C) also were given the other routine childhood vaccines (BCG, DPT, polio, and measles). Blood samples were taken one month after the third vaccine dose in groups A (seven months of age) and B (10 months of age), and a second follow-up blood sample was taken at the age of 18 months for all three groups. Sera were tested for HBsAg and antibody to hepatitis B core antigen, and quantitatively for antibody to hepatitis B surface antigen (anti-HBs) using commercial enzyme immunoassay kits. The vaccine was well tolerated and side effects were limited to local soreness, redness, or temporary swelling. Among 590 infants who were followed-up, good (51-300 mIU anti-HBs/ml) or excellent (> 300 mIU/ml) immune responses occurred in 85% of the infants in group A and in 96% in group B. Geometric mean titers of anti-HBs at the first and second follow-up were 306 and 55 mIU/ml in group A, and 1,492 and 147 mIU/ml in group B. The recombinant HB vaccine is safe and immunogenic when given in three doses of 2.5 micrograms in either regimen, but delay of the booster dose of the vaccine until nine months after birth produced a higher immune response.
Receptor-linked antigen delivery system. Importance of autologous alpha 2-macroglobulin in the development of peptide vaccine.	We have hijacked a process of the receptor-mediated endocytosis to transport peptide antigens into antigen presenting cells (APCs) for the purpose of increasing the level of antigen presentation (named Receptor-Linked Antigen Delivery System (R-LADS)). By coupling an endogenous plasma proteinase inhibitor alpha 2-macroglobulin (alpha 2M) to a synthetic peptide having a partial sequence of HIV-1 envelope protein, alpha 2M was made to carry the peptide into APCs as a part of the normal alpha 2M cycle, which resulted in an increased production of specific antibodies against the peptide (Mitsuda, S., Nakagawa, T., Osada, T., Shimamoto, T., Nakazato, H. and Ikai, A. (1993) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 194, 1155-1160). We demonstrate here that this procedure becomes a more efficient tool for antibody production when autologous transporter protein was used. By using murine alpha 2M (m alpha 2M) instead of heterologous human alpha 2M (h alpha 2M) when mice were experimental animals, we were able to dramatically enhance the production level of anti-HIV-1 peptide antibodies and shorten the period which is needed for antibody production. We aim to develop effective peptide vaccines by further improving this system.
A chemical typhoid vaccine containing a surface-antigen complex including the K-antigen]	A new chemical typhoid vaccine containing the complex of surface Vi- and K-antigens has been obtained and experimentally studied. The vaccine has been found to possess high immunogenic and antigenic potency. Typhoid complex vaccine containing K-antigen stimulates the development of anti-infection and postvaccinal complex.
Development of vaccines based on formulations containing nonionic block copolymers.	In summary, data indicate that nonionic block copolymers in several different delivery formats can effectively enhance antibody responses to a variety of viral, parasite, or bacterial antigens. Polymers have historically been evaluated as polymers alone in aqueous buffer, in oil-in-water and water-in-oil emulsions. Several of those formulations can induce protective antibodies in preerythrocytic or erythrocytic malaria vaccine models or in pneumococcal vaccine models. In those models, protective immunity is associated with the development of IgG2a subclass antibodies. These results tend to indicate that copolymer adjuvant can influence isotype development, possibly by stimulating the appropriate T-cell subsets. Although there are some data suggesting that microfluidized vaccines containing the L121 nonionic block copolymer can induce CTL, equivalent experimental results with larger block polymers, which are effective in induction of greater proportions of IgG2a, have not yet been obtained. Several of the basic formulations with an appropriate copolymer may be suitable for clinical evaluation in conjunction with either current or future subunit antigens. Other formulations containing copolymers may also be suitable for mucosal administration.
Liposomal presentation of antigens for human vaccines.	Liposomes are considered prime candidates to improve the immunogenicity of both antigens with hydrophobic anchor sequences and soluble, nonmembrane proteins or synthetic peptides. During the 20 years since liposomes were first demonstrated to have adjuvant potential, studies have shown that variation in liposomal size, lipid composition, surface charge, membrane fluidity, lipid-protein composition, anchor molecules, and fusogenicity can significantly influence results. In addition, antigen location (e.g., whether it is adsorbed or covalently coupled to the liposome surface or encapsulated in liposomal aqueous compartments) may also be important. Analysis of these variables as well as a comparison of the various techniques used to ensure the efficacy, stability, homogeneity, and safety of liposomal vaccine have been discussed.
Synthetic recombinant vaccines against viral agents.	Synthetic recombinant vaccines are expression vectors incorporating defined epitope(s) of microbial agents. They are prepared by inserting synthetic oligonucleotide(s) coding for previously identified relevant epitopes into the genome of a desired vector, using recombinant DNA technology. The results discussed indicate that immunization with such vaccines carrying viral epitopes may lead to protective immunity against viral agents. Oligonucleotides coding for three influenza epitopes stimulating B cells, T helper cells and cytotoxic lymphocytes were individually inserted into the flagellin gene of a Salmonella vaccine strain. Immunization of mice with the resultant recombinant bacteria or their isolated flagella induced a specific mucosal anti-influenza protective response. The most efficient vaccine consisted of all three recombinant flagella, administered intranasally. The protection elicited was cross-strain specific, long-lasting and efficient against a lethal viral challenge.
HIV-1 soluble antigens induced CD8+ cytotoxic T-cell responses in an immunized individual.	In an attempt to determine whether immunization of healthy HIV-1 seronegative individuals with a soluble gp160 candidate vaccine could induce an anti-HIV specific immune response, volunteers were immunized by two injections of a water-in-oil emulsion containing a mixture of gp160 antigen together with selected peptides. Following immunization, lymphocytes were collected and stimulated in vitro with autologous HIV-1-infected cells. The results showed that immunization with soluble HIV-1 envelope was able to generate CD3+ CD8+ CTLs directed to gp160 antigen. The CTL response was restricted to class I molecule HLA-A2. The CTL response was comparable to that elicited by immunization with HIV-1-envelope recombinant vaccinia virus.
HIV-1 p17 synthetic peptide vaccine HGP-30: induction of immune response in human subjects and preliminary evidence of protection against HIV challenge in SCID mice.	An HIV-1 p17 subunit vaccine, HGP-30, was evaluated in 38 HIV-1 seronegative individuals in phase I clinical trials in U.K. and U.S.A. The vaccine preparation induced cytotoxic T-cell (CTL) (11/25) and lymphocyte proliferation responses to KLH (19/20) and HGP-30/p17 (24/29) as well as antibody responses to HGP-30 (29/38) and KLH (38/38). The CTL activity was observed in a higher number of vaccine recipients (9/18) in the lower dose groups (10 and 25 micrograms/kg) than the vaccine recipients (2/7) in the 50 and 100 micrograms/kg dose group. These observations suggest that the 10-25 micrograms/kg vaccine dose may preferentially induce TH1 cell responses. TH1 cell responses have been suggested as important in inducing protective cell mediated immunity. The CTL response has been shown to be CD8+. In a pilot study in SCID mice, HIV-1 virus challenge studies in mice reconstituted with cells from an HGP-30 immunized individual showed protection against virus challenge as compared to SCID mice reconstituted with cells from a non-immunized subject. These studies suggest that HGP-30 is capable of inducing protective cellular immunity.
HIV-1 recombinant poxvirus vaccine induces cross-protection against HIV-2 challenge in rhesus macaques.	Rhesus macaques were immunized with attenuated vaccinia or canarypox human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) recombinants and boosted with HIV-1 protein subunits formulated in alum. Following challenge with HIV-2SBL6669, three out of eight immunized macaques resisted infection for six months and another exhibited significantly delayed infection, whereas all three naive controls became infected. Immunizations elicited both humoral and cellular immune responses; however, no clear correlates of protection were discerned. Although more extensive studies are now called for, this first demonstration of cross-protection between HIV-1 and -2 suggests that viral variability may not be an insurmountable problem in the design of a global AIDS vaccine.
Neutralization of HIV-1 by secretory IgA induced by oral immunization with a new macromolecular multicomponent peptide vaccine candidate.	Control of pandemic infection of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) requires some means of developing mucosal immunity against HIV-1 because sexual transmission of the virus occurs mainly through the mucosal tissues. However, there is no evidence as yet that the secretory immunoglobulin A (IgA) antibody induced by immunization with antigens in experimental animals can neutralize HIV-1. We demonstrate here that oral immunization with a new macromolecular peptide antigen and cholera toxin (CT) induces a high titre (1:2") of gut-associated and secretory IgA antibody to HIV-1. Using three different neutralizing assays, we clearly demonstrate that this secretory IgA antibody is able to neutralize HIV-1IIIB, HIV-1SF2 and HIV-1MN. Our new approach may prove to be important in the development of a mucosal vaccine that will provide protection of mucosal surfaces against HIV-1.
Integration of hepatitis B immunization in the Expanded Program on Immunization of the Child Survival Project.	The Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) is a component of the Child Survival Project (CSP) whose objectives are to reduce the incidence rates of six childhood diseases (Measles, Diphtheria, Pertussis, Tetanus, Tuberculosis, Poliomyelitis) and to reduce the number of infant deaths from those diseases by increasing effective vaccination coverage. In 1991, the CSP/EPI developed a national plan to introduce national immunization of infants against hepatitis B in an attempt to control the magnitude and seriousness of the damage which viral hepatitis causes in terms of morbidity, mortality and serious sequelae as hepatitis B is an endemic disease in Egypt causing an important public health problem which requires urgent control. This presentation will discuss the integrated effort undertaken to plan and implement the program, the different challenges it faces, control studies being performed as well as the proposed objectives of the hepatitis B vaccination program.
Rabies eradication in Belgium by fox vaccination using vaccinia-rabies recombinant virus.	Oral immunization of foxes against rabies, by distributing vaccine-baits in the field, has been in progress since 1993 in the whole of the infected area of Belgium (10,000 km2). A vaccinia-rabies recombinant virus (VR-G) was used as vaccine because of its efficacy, safety and heat-stability. The successive campaigns of fox vaccination have induced a drastic decrease in rabies incidence and in 1993 there were no cases of rabies detected in the fox population. A marked decrease of human post-exposure treatments and the elimination of the disease in domestic animals have been the consequence of fox rabies control.
Towards rabies elimination in Belgium by fox vaccination using a vaccinia-rabies glycoprotein recombinant virus.	Oral immunization of foxes by distributing vaccine baits was experimentally assessed and subsequently employed in the whole of the infected area of Belgium (10,000 km2). A vaccinia-rabies glycoprotein recombinant virus (VR-G) was used as vaccine because of its efficacy, safety and heat stability. Five 'full' campaigns of fox vaccination, carried out from 1989 until 1991, induced a drastic decrease in the incidence of rabies. The disease has disappeared from the major part of the initial infected area. In 1992 and 1993, three 'defence' campaigns, carried out along international borders, completely eliminated rabies virus infection from the fox population in 1993.
Safety and immunogenicity of the oral E. coli K12-S. flexneri 2a vaccine (EcSf2a-2) among Israeli soldiers.	A double-blind placebo-controlled study was carried out on the safety and immunogenicity of the oral Shigella flexneri (EcSf2a-2) vaccine among Israeli soldiers. Sixty volunteers received the vaccine and 59 received placebo. Fifty-three were given the full vaccine regimen (four doses). Doses ranged between 4.1 x 10(8) and 1.1 x 10(9) c.f.u. Visits to the unit clinic for mild gastrointestinal symptoms were common after the first dose in vaccinees (13%) as compared with placebo recipients (5%), but the difference was not significant, p = 0.12. Similarly, there was no difference between the groups for either gastrointestinal or non-gastrointestinal complaints reported by questionnaire. The vaccine strain was excreted by 69% and 67% of the vaccinees one day after receiving the second and the fourth doses, respectively. As judged by antibiotic susceptibility, phage typing and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), the vaccine strain emerged as genetically stable after replication in human gut and shedding. There was neither bacteriological nor serological evidence of transmission of the vaccine from vaccinees to placebo recipients. Eighteen of 26 (69.2%) and 11 of 30 (36.7%) vaccinees had significant IgA secreting cell responses 7 and 21 days after the first dose, respectively. Significant IgA or IgG serum antibody response to S. flexneri 2a LPS was detected in 30% of the vaccinees. These results support further evaluation of EcSf2a-2 vaccine protective efficacy in field studies.
Immunogenicity of recombinant adenovirus-human immunodeficiency virus vaccines in chimpanzees following intranasal administration.	Recombinant adenovirus (Ad)-human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) vaccines expressing HIVIIIB Env and Gag proteins were evaluated for immunogenicity in chimpanzees following intranasal administration. When Ad7-, Ad4-, and Ad5-vectored vaccines were administered sequentially at 0, 24, and 52 weeks, respectively, to three chimpanzees, the inoculations resulted in limited virus replication in the nasopharynx, but extensive Ad-HIV replication occurred in the intestine. High-titered IgG serum antibody responses to Env and Gag that were nonneutralizing were induced following booster administration of Ad4-HIV recombinant viruses. Following the Ad5-HIV booster, low levels of neutralizing antibodies as well as V3 loop antibodies were induced in all three chimpanzees that persisted for several months. Administration of a gp160 subunit vaccine (baculovirus derived) in SAF-m 24 weeks later boosted broadly neutralizing serum antibodies that peaked within 1 month of the injection. Two additional subunit boosters 19 and 37 weeks later were progressively less effective at stimulating serum neutralizing antibody responses. Substantial local immune responses were induced in nasal, vaginal, and salivary secretions following the third Ad-HIV intranasal immunization. These responses were further boosted with the gp160 subunit vaccine, which also stimulated production of rectal antibodies. The predominant responses in all secretions tested were of the IgG isotype, although some IgA responses were also detected. Strong blastogenic responses to HIV recombinant Env and Gag proteins were induced after each immunization.
Induction of specific IgA responses in rats after oral vaccination with biodegradable microspheres containing a recombinant protein.	Diseases which affect mucosal surfaces cause considerable mortality and morbidity. New vaccine technologies are now available which justify a reappraisal of oral delivery not only for infectious disease control but also to control mucosal physiological processes such as fertility. Biodegradable microspheres have been investigated for their use as an oral delivery vehicle in rats using a recombinant antigen derived from fox sperm. Unencapsulated antigen administered in saline by the oral route produced a negligible response although an improved response was obtained if administered directly into the duodenum. This response was considerably enhanced if Peyer's patch (PP) priming was performed by direct injection of antigen in Freund's complete adjuvant (FCA) prior to intraduodenal (ID) delivery. In contrast, microencapsulated antigen given orally produced a substantial response, which was predominantly IgA specific, and almost equal in magnitude to that obtained by PP priming and ID boosting with native antigen. Direct ID delivery produced a similar response but when PP were primed with microencapsulated antigen in FCA the response to ID boosting was greater than with any of the other protocols investigated. These data demonstrate the efficacy of biodegradable microspheres in producing an IgA antibody response following oral vaccination.
The determination of the optimal inoculation dose of an oral cholera bivalent chemical vaccine in a controlled trial of the vaccination of children and adolescents]	The reactogenicity and immunological effectiveness of different doses of cholera vaccine for oral administration (in tablets), containing choleragen toxoid, Ogawa and Inaba O-antigens and some of Vibrio cholerae exoenzymes, have been tested on 143 children aged 2-17 years. In this investigation the optimum immunization doses of the preparation have been established: two tablets containing 100,000 binding units (BU) of the toxoid and 2,500 units of O-antigen for children 11-14 years; four tablets containing 200,000 BU of the toxoid and 5,000 units of O-antigen for adolescents aged 15-17 years. An essential advantage of the oral vaccine over vaccines intended for parenteral administration lies in its capacity for inducing the accumulation of secretory antibodies (coproantibodies) in practically all vaccinees.
Comparison of two immunization schedules with recombinant hepatitis B vaccine and natural immunity acquired by hepatitis B infection in dialysis patients.	In a prospective study over a 2-year period we compared two practical dosage schedules to vaccinate dialysis patients against hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection using a yeast-derived recombinant hepatitis B vaccine (Engerix-B). In addition, the natural history of this acquired immunity was compared with that developed through HBV infection in dialysis patients and healthy subjects. Patients on dialysis treatment (haemo or peritoneal) who were tested to be negative for hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), anti-HBs and anti-HB core were allocated at random to receive HB vaccine according to one of the two schedules. The two groups receiving the vaccine were matched for age, sex, mean duration on dialysis and the form of dialysis treatment received. The group of patients who received a four-dose schedule (at 0, 1, 2 and 6 months) of 40 micrograms of HB vaccine each time (group 2) achieved a seroconversion rate of 79% 1 month after the last dose (at month 7) compared with a seroconversion rate of 55% in those who received three doses (at 0, 1 and 6 months) of 40 micrograms each (group 1). Healthy controls who received half the amount of vaccine on a three-dose schedule (group 3) attained 100% seroconversion (p < 0.05). When retested at 24 months, 30% of seroconverters in group 1 had lost their protective immunity, compared with only 6% in group 2 and 15% in group 3. The magnitude of antibody response (total and anti-(a)-specific) was assessed in the vaccinees at 24 months and compared with that of two other control groups, dialysis patients (group 4) and healthy volunteers (group 5), who had acquired immunity from HBV infection. In general, the total and anti-(a)-specific HBs titres in the dialysis patients (groups 1, 2 and 4) were lower than in their corresponding healthy controls (groups 3 and 5), irrespective of whether the protective immunity was acquired by vaccination or HBV infection. However, the anti-HBs titres in dialysis patients who received four doses were significantly higher than in those who received only three doses (p < 0.05), which indicated a better protective immunity in favour of the former regime. The magnitude of antibody response in the vaccinees of groups 2 and 3 compared well with their respective controls, groups 4 and 5, who had acquired their immunity through HBV infection. This implied that the yeast-derived vaccine was sufficiently immunogenic and provided lasting protection in patients and healthy subjects vaccinated by an appropriate dosage schedule.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Multidose, live attenuated, cold-recombinant, trivalent influenza vaccine in infants and young children.	Twenty-two healthy infants and children received either cold-recombinant, trivalent influenza vaccine or placebo in a three-dose vaccine trial. Most (82%) who received vaccine were seronegative to all three vaccine strains (10(6) TCID50/dose each): A/Kawasaki/9/86 (H1N1), A/Los Angeles/2/87 (H3N2), and B/Yamagata/16/88. Vaccine was administered intranasally at time 0 and 2 and 4 months later. The vaccine was well tolerated and immunogenic when administered in a multidose regimen. The first dose stimulated antibody to H1, H3, and B in 59%, 94%, and 35% of vaccinees, respectively, by hemagglutination inhibition (HAI) or ELISA. After two doses of vaccine, 93%, 93%, and 80% had antibody by HAI or ELISA to H1, H3, and B, respectively. Most vaccinees (67%) responded to all three viruses after two doses of vaccine. The third dose contributed little to the vaccine's immunogenicity. Multidose trivalent influenza vaccine is safe and induces an immune response in most vaccinees after two doses.
Comparative study of the immunogenicity and safety of two dosing schedules of Engerix-B hepatitis B vaccine in neonates.	A randomized multicenter study compared the routine hepatitis B vaccine schedule of 0, 1, 6 months with an accelerated schedule of 0, 1, 2 months in newborns. Two hundred ninety-nine infants whose mothers were seronegative for hepatitis B were enrolled in the study and randomized to either the routine or accelerated schedule. All infants had blood drawn for antibody titers to hepatitis B at 2, 3, 6 and 7 months of age. For 222 infants data were evaluable, at least for safety; 193 of these 22 had antibody titers that were evaluable. The infants vaccinated on the accelerated schedule developed seroprotective concentrations of antibody more quickly than the infants vaccinated on the routine schedule; 92.6% vs. 66.1% had seroprotective concentrations (> or = 10 mIU/ml) at 3 months of age (P < 0.001). However, infants in the accelerated schedule had lower geometric mean antibody titers at 7 months, 420.0 vs. 3141.8. We conclude that the accelerated vaccination schedule resulted in the more rapid development of seroprotective concentrations of antibody, but levels of antibodies were not as high as in the routinely vaccinated infants at 7 months. These data suggest that an accelerated vaccine schedule can be used in the newborn period. The effectiveness of the accelerated schedule in preventing perinatal infections compared to the standard schedule and the necessity for booster doses of vaccine remain to be studied.
Recognition of B and T cell epitopes by cattle immunized with a synthetic peptide containing the major immunogenic site of VP1 FMDV 01 Campos.	The precise location of B and T cell epitopes have been established in a peptide containing the major immunogenic site (residues 135-160) of FMDV strain 01 Campos (01C) VP1. The peptide (p135-160), administered free or conjugated to bovine serum albumin, induced complete protection in guinea pigs and a strong neutralizing antibody (NAb) response in cattle. Using a set of partially overlapping peptides it was shown that although several B cell epitopes were distributed along the p135-160, the residues responsible for the induction of NAb were restricted to the amino acids 135-144. In addition, bovines immunized with the p135-160 showed a strong proliferative response to this peptide but a very poor response against purified virus. Two T-epitopes were located in the 135-160 sequence: one on the region 135-144 and the other in the region 150-160. The immunodominance of these two T cell epitopes was confirmed in cattle immunized with inactivated virus vaccines.
Antibody response of Navajo children primed with PRP-OMP vaccine to booster doses of PRP-OMP vs. HbOC vaccine.	We compared in 12- to 15-month-old American Indian infants the safety and immunogenicity of two licensed Haemophilus influenzae type b (Hib) conjugate vaccines, PRP-OMP (PedvaxHib) and HbOC (HibTITER), administered as booster vaccinations. All infants previously received PRP-OMP for their primary Hib vaccinations at 2 and 4 months of age. The geometric mean Hib antibody concentrations (microgram/ml) measured by radioactive antigen-binding assay for those receiving PRP-OMP (n = 17) or HbOC (n = 18) were 0.593 and 0.449, respectively, before boosting (P not significant) and 7.46 and 29.5 micrograms/ml, respectively, after boosting (P < 0.05). PRP-OMP recipients also had lower geometric mean IgG anti-Hib antibody concentrations than HbOC recipients (7.21 vs 28 micrograms/ml, P = 0.003) and lower bactericidal titers (3.18 vs. 15.4, not significant). We conclude that HbOC vaccine produced a significantly greater booster response than PRP-OMP vaccine when given at 12 to 15 months of age to children primed with two doses of PRP-OMP vaccine at 2 and 4 months of age.
Comparison of in vivo reactivation, in vitro reactivation, and polymerase chain reaction for detection of latent pseudorabies virus infection in swine.	The following methods were compared for their ability to detect latent pseudorabies virus in 24 pigs that had been experimentally infected with virulent pseudorabies virus: 1) in vivo reactivation by dexamethasone administration, 2) in vitro reactivation by 5 different techniques of explant culture or cocultivation of trigeminal ganglia, and 3) detection of pseudorabies virus genome in tissue digests of tonsils or trigeminal ganglia using the polymerase chain reaction. Reactivation of pseudorabies virus by administration of dexamethasone was attempted in 12 of 24 pigs in an effort to determine if this procedure would affect the detection of latent pseudorabies virus by any of the subsequent in vitro methods. Detection of latent virus by the polymerase chain reaction with trigeminal ganglia was the most successful method (24/24 were positive). The next most successful method was in vivo reactivation through the administration of dexamethasone (10/12 [83%] were positive). Only 1 in vitro reactivation technique, cocultivation involving digestion of the trigeminal ganglia with trypsin and collagenase and the addition of a hypomethylating agent to the medium, yielded positive results (5/24 [21%] were positive). The polymerase chain reaction performed on tissue digests of tonsils was much less effective (2/24 [8%] were positive) than it was with trigeminal ganglia. Reactivation by dexamethasone did not appear to have any effect on the subsequent detection of latency by any of the methods tested.
Oral immunization with recombinant BCG induces cellular and humoral immune responses against the foreign antigen.	It has been shown recently that BCG can be used as a live recombinant vaccine to stimulate immune responses. Proliferative or cytotoxic T-cell responses against several viral proteins such as HIV Gag, Env or Nef were obtained after parenteral immunization with BCG expressing these proteins. Antibody responses were also obtained after immunization of mice with recombinant BCG strain which expressed lac Z under the control of a promoter sequence isolated from Mycobacterium paratuberculosis. We have used this recombinant vaccine in guinea-pigs to investigate the influence of various routes of immunization on the immunogenicity of a foreign antigen expressed by recombinant BCG. Guinea-pigs were immunized by oral, respiratory or intradermal routes and proliferative responses, delayed-type hypersensitivity and antibody responses specific for beta-galactosidase were followed for 16 weeks. Results demonstrated that humoral and cellular immune responses specific for beta-galactosidase can be produced in all groups of guinea-pigs. However, the respiratory and especially the oral route of administration induced higher local and systemic immune responses than the intradermal route of immunization. Moreover, the oral immunization of mice with this recombinant BCG induced IgA responses which could be detected in both sera and intestinal secretions. Therefore, this study demonstrates for the first time that oral immunization with recombinant BCG can induce strong cellular and humoral immune responses.
Generation of diversity in the hierarchy of T-cell epitope responses following different routes of immunization with simian immunodeficiency virus protein.	To examine whether the route of immunization determines the hierarchy of T-cell epitope proliferative responses in macaques.
The development and use of a vaccinia-rabies recombinant oral vaccine for the control of wildlife rabies; a link between Jenner and Pasteur.	To improve both safety and stability of the oral vaccines used in the field to vaccinate foxes against rabies, a recombinant vaccinia virus, which expresses the immunizing G protein of rabies virus has been developed by inserting the cDNA which codes for the immunogenic glycoprotein of rabies virus into the thymidine kinase (TK) gene of the Copenhagen strain of vaccinia virus. The efficacy of this vaccine was tested by the oral route, primarily in foxes. The immunity conferred, a minimum of 12 months in cubs and 18 months in adult animals, corresponds to the duration of the protection required for vaccination of foxes in the field. Innocuity was tested in foxes, domestic animals, and in numerous European wild animal species that could compete with the red fox for the vaccine bait. No clinical signs or lesions were observed in any of the vaccinated animals during a minimum of 28 days post vaccination. Moreover, no transmission of immunizing doses of the recombinant occurred between foxes or other species tested. To study the stability of the vaccine strain, baits containing the vaccine were placed in the field. Despite considerable variations of environmental temperatures, the vaccine remained stable for at least one month. Because bait is taken within one month, it can be assumed that most animals taking the baits are effectively vaccinated. To test the field efficacy of the recombinant vaccine, large-scale campaigns of fox vaccination were set up in a 2200 km2 region of southern Belgium, were rabies was prevalent. A dramatic decrease in the incidence of rabies was noted after the campaigns. The recombinant is presently used to control wildlife rabies in the field both in several European countries and in the United States.
Induction of measles virus-specific cytotoxic T-cell responses after intranasal immunization with synthetic peptides.	We have investigated the structural requirements for the induction of cytotoxic T-cell responses (CTL) in vivo after intranasal immunization with an immunodominant CTL epitope from the nucleoprotein of measles virus (MV). For the induction of CTL responses, covalent linkage of the CTL epitope to a helper T-cell epitope was required and the orientation of the epitopes influenced the immunogenicity of the CTL epitope. The presence of two copies as compared with one copy of a T-helper epitope, rendered the CTL epitope more immunogenic and resulted in the in vivo induction of MV-specific CTLs without the need for an adjuvant. The role of CTL responses to this epitope in protection after intranasal administration was evaluated in a mouse model against challenge with a neuroadapted strain of MV. Although a decreased mortality in the peptide immunized compared with that in unimmunized mice was observed, the protection achieved was not significant. These findings highlight the importance of the rational design of synthetic immunogens for the induction of CTL responses and the potential of the intranasal route for immunization.
Oral immunization of macaques with attenuated vaccine virus induces protection against vaginally transmitted AIDS.	The chimeric simian-human immunodeficiency virus SHIVKU-1, bearing the envelope of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), causes fulminant infection with subtotal loss of CD4(+) T cells followed by development of AIDS in intravaginally inoculated macaques and thus provides a highly relevant model of sexually transmitted disease caused by HIV-1 in human beings. Previous studies using this SHIV model had shown that the vpu and nef genes were important in pathogenesis of the infection, and so we deleted portions of these genes to create two vaccines, DeltavpuDeltanefSHIV-4 (vaccine 1) and DeltavpuSHIVPPc (vaccine 2). Six adult macaques were immunized subcutaneously with vaccine 1, and six were immunized orally with vaccine 2. Both viruses caused infection in all inoculated animals, but whereas vaccine 1 virus caused only a nonproductive type of infection, vaccine 2 virus replicated productively but transiently for a 6- to 10-week period. Both groups were challenged 6 to 7 months later with pathogenic SHIVKU-1 by the intravaginal route. All four unvaccinated controls developed low CD4(+) T-cell counts (<200/microliter) and AIDS. The 12 vaccinated animals all became infected with SHIVKU-1, and two in group 1 developed a persistent productive infection followed by development of AIDS in one. The other 10 have maintained almost complete control over virus replication even though spliced viral RNA was detected in lymph nodes. This suppression of virus replication correlated with robust antiviral cell-mediated immune responses. This is the first demonstration of protection against virulent SHIV administered by the intravaginal route. This study supports the concept that sexually transmitted HIV disease can be prevented by parenteral or oral immunization.
Subunit rotavirus vaccine administered parenterally to rabbits induces active protective immunity.	Virus-like particles (VLPs) are being evaluated as a candidate rotavirus vaccine. The immunogenicity and protective efficacy of different formulations of VLPs administered parenterally to rabbits were tested. Two doses of VLPs (2/6-, G3 2/6/7-, or P[2], G3 2/4/6/7-VLPs) or SA11 simian rotavirus in Freund's adjuvants, QS-21 (saponin adjuvant), or aluminum phosphate (AlP) were administered. Serological and mucosal immune responses were evaluated in all vaccinated and control rabbits before and after oral challenge with 10(3) 50% infective doses of live P[14], G3 ALA lapine rotavirus. All VLP- and SA11-vaccinated rabbits developed high levels of rotavirus-specific serum and intestinal immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies but not intestinal IgA antibodies. SA11 and 2/4/6/7-VLPs afforded similar but much higher mean levels of protection than 2/6/7- or 2/6-VLPs in QS-21. The presence of neutralizing antibodies to VP4 correlated (P < 0.001, r = 0.55; Pearson's correlation coefficient) with enhanced protection rates, suggesting that these antibodies are important for protection. Although the inclusion of VP4 resulted in higher mean protection levels, high levels of protection (87 to 100%) from infection were observed in individual rabbits immunized with 2/6/7- or 2/6-VLPs in Freund's adjuvants. Therefore, neither VP7 nor VP4 was absolutely required to achieve protection from infection in the rabbit model when Freund's adjuvant was used. Our results show that VLPs are immunogenic when administered parenterally to rabbits and that Freund's adjuvant is a better adjuvant than QS-21. The use of the rabbit model may help further our understanding of the critical rotavirus proteins needed to induce active protection. VLPs are a promising candidate for a parenterally administered subunit rotavirus vaccine.
In vitro-synthesized infectious RNA as an attenuated live vaccine in a flavivirus model.	Live virus vaccines have in many cases proven to be an extremely effective tool for the prevention of viral diseases. However, the production of conventional live vaccines in eukaryotic cell cultures has many disadvantages, including the potential for contamination with adventitious agents and genetic alterations during propagation, making it necessary to do extensive testing before distribution. Based on results obtained with a flavivirus (tick-borne encephalitis virus) in an experimental animal system, we propose a novel live attenuated virus vaccination strategy consisting of the application of in vitro-synthesized infectious RNA instead of the live virus itself. When administered using the GeneGun, less than 1 ng of RNA was required to initiate replication of virus that was attenuated by a specifically engineered deletion and this induced a protective immunity in laboratory mice. Because this approach uses RNA, it does not have the potential drawbacks of DNA vaccines and thus combines the advantages of conventional live virus vaccines (for example, mimicking natural infection and inducing long-lasting immunity) with those of nucleic acid-based vaccines (for example, ease of production without a requirement for eukaryotic cell culture, stability and purity).
Reinforced intradermal hepatitis B vaccination in hemodialysis patients is superior in antibody response to intramuscular or subcutaneous vaccination.	Since 1960, hepatitis B virus-associated chronic liver disease has been considered an important problem in dialysis units in both Europe and North America. Separate dialysis facilities for hepatitis B-infected patients, the implementation of universal precautions for the prevention of transmission, and the active immunization against hepatitis B have now reduced the yearly incidence to less than 0.05% in Western countries. However, only 50% to 60% of patients with renal insufficiency develop sufficient immune response after intramuscular hepatitis B vaccination. The aim of the current study was to determine whether the mode of vaccine application plays a role in vaccination response and whether increasing the vaccine dose of primary intradermal hepatitis B vaccination can reduce the number of vaccine injections in hemodialysis patients. We designed a prospective, randomized study of antibody responses to hepatitis B vaccine given intradermally, subcutaneously, or intramuscularly in 81 hemodialysis patients. Outcome measures were rates of seroconversion, mean levels of anti-Hbs antibodies, and antibody levels 8 years after vaccination. The results show that intradermal hepatitis B vaccination response with a higher vaccination dose than previously used in hemodialysis patients is superior to conventional intramuscular and subcutaneous vaccination and is also well tolerated. Five intradermal injections of 20 microg each induced the development of sufficient anti-Hbs antibody titer, which persisted in 70% of the patients over 3 years.
Safety and immunogenicity of HIV recombinant envelope vaccines in HIV-infected infants and children. National Institutes of Health-sponsored Pediatric AIDS Clinical Trials Group (ACTG-218).	Study objectives were to evaluate the safety and immunogenicity of three HIV recombinant glycoproteins in HIV-infected infants and children between 1 month and 18 years of age with asymptomatic (P-1) infection. Using Chiron rgp 120 (SF-2) 15 or 50 microg; MicroGeneSys rgp 160 (IIIB) 40 or 320 microg; Genentech rgp120 (MN) 75 or 300 microg; or adjuvant control (Alum or MF-59), children were randomized to a double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-escalating study of vaccine administered intramuscularly at entry and 1, 2, 3, 4, and 6 months later. No adverse events were attributed to study vaccines. Between 30% and 56% of volunteers exhibited a lymphoproliferative response as defined in terms of stimulation index (SI) to vaccine antigens; 65% of vaccinees but none of placebo recipients exhibited moderate or strong responses after enzyme immunoassay to HIV specific antigens. CD4 cell counts and quantitative HIV culture did not differ significantly among vaccine and control groups, nor were differences found among groups in HIV disease progression. The rgp160 and gp120 subunit vaccines were safe and immunogenic in this population.
Effect of pre-existing carrier immunity on the efficacy of synthetic influenza vaccine.	In our previous studies on the development of synthetic peptide-based vaccines, we have evaluated flagellin from a Salmonella typhi vaccine strain as a carrier molecule for synthetic peptides derived from the influenza virus. The results indicated that the use of recombinant flagella, expressing defined influenza epitopes, is adequate for induction of protection against a challenge infection. It is of importance to show that previous exposure to the carrier does not induce suppression of the response to such vaccine. In the present study we demonstrate that the protective effect is not impaired by pre-immunization with either the carrier flagellin molecule alone or with the intact salmonella. The immune response was manifested both by the level of antibodies produced and by a proliferative cellular response, as well as by an efficient protection of the mice from a sub-lethal challenge infection. Since prior exposure to the carrier did not result in immune suppression, we conclude that Salmonella flagellin is a suitable carrier for synthetic peptide based vaccines.
