Vaccinia (smallpox) vaccine. Recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP)	These revised recommendations on vaccinia (smallpox) vaccine update the previous recommendations (MMWR 1985; 34:341-2) and include current information on its use among laboratory and health-care workers occupationally exposed to vaccinia, recombinant vaccinia viruses, and other orthopoxviruses that can infect humans. This report also contains revised recommendations on revaccination of high-risk workers and information on contraindications to vaccination.
The degree of apoptosis as an immunostimulant for a DNA vaccine against HIV-1 infection.	To regulate the expression of the apoptotic gene, we constructed bicistronic DNA vaccines that encode for HIV env and caspase-3 mutant (casp 3m) that are expressed via the encephalomyocarditis virus internal ribosomal entry site (IRES) or cytomegalovirus (CMV) promoter-dependent translations. While IRES-casp 3m induced weak apoptosis and caused little reduction in antigen expression, CMV-casp 3m elicited strong apoptosis and led to a marked decrease in the antigen expression. Therefore, IRES-casp 3m augmented HIV-specific immune responses, and IRES-casp 3m induced significant protection against the vaccinia-HIV chimeric virus. These results suggest that the appropriate level of apoptosis is important for DNA vaccine development.
Vaccinia virus entry/fusion complex subunit A28 is a target of neutralizing and protective antibodies.	The vaccinia virus entry/fusion complex (EFC) is comprised of at least eight transmembrane proteins that are conserved in all poxviruses. However, neither the physical structure of the EFC nor the immunogenicity of the individual components has been determined. We prepared soluble forms of two EFC components, A28 and H2, by replacing the transmembrane domain with a signal peptide and adding a polyhistidine tail. The proteins were expressed by baculoviruses, secreted from insect cells, purified by affinity chromatography and used to raise antibodies in rabbits. The antibodies recognized the viral proteins but only the antibody to recombinant A28 bound intact virions and neutralized infectivity. Analyses with a set of overlapping peptides revealed a neutralizing epitope between residues 73 and 92 of A28. Passive immunization of mice with IgG purified from the anti-A28 serum provided partial protection against a vaccinia virus intranasal challenge, whereas IgG from the anti-H2 serum did not.
Vaccinations of animals and human health (author's transl)]	Vaccination of animals may have both positive and negative effects on human health. The negative consequences largely occur with live vaccines. The protection provided by vaccination to animals is taken advantage of for human health in the most diverse ways, both directly and indirectly. Typical examples are vaccination of dogs and cats against against rabies and inoculation against diseases of cattle, horses and dogs in which reoviruses of serotypes 1, 2 and 3 are involved. An important contribution to the protection of human health is also provided by vaccination with inactivated pathogens against leptospirosis and salmonellosis, against stomatitis vesicularis and American equine encephalitis and in developing countries against brucellosis.
Polyacetal carboxylic acids: a new group of antiviral polyanions.	Chlorite-oxidized oxypolysaccharides are polyacetal carboxylic acids. They inhibited the cytopathic effect of vesicular stomatitis virus in mouse embryo cell cultures challenged at low input multiplicity. After intraperitoneal injection of these compounds in mice, interferon appeared in the circulation. The compounds also protected mice against lethal mengovirus infection and against the development of experimental pox lesions on the tail. Chlorite-oxidized oxyamylose was antiviral only when at least 64% of the glucopyranose units were oxidized, an observation which suggested a correlation between charge density and antiviral effect. The antiviral activity was also influenced by the molecular weight, as demonstrated by the fact that chlorite-oxidized dextrans which had a high intrinsic viscosity were more active than those with low intrinsic viscosity.
Antiviral activity of chlorite-oxidized oxyamylose, a polyacetal carboxylic acid.	Intraperitoneal injection of chlorite-oxidized oxyamylose (COAM) protected mice against mengo, vaccinia, Semliki Forest, and influenza APR8 viruses. Topical administration in the eye of rabbits partially inhibited the development of experimental herpetic keratoconjunctivitis. COAM resembled polyacrylic acid in many aspects, but it was markedly less toxic. For systemic administration, the therapeutic index was on the order of magnitude of 1:300 to 1:500. Although the in vivo antiviral effect of COAM wore off faster than that of polyacrylic acid, protection lasted for several weeks. Against mengovirus, such prolonged protection was achieved only when polymer and virus were injected intraperitoneally. Protection against intravenous vaccinia virus was not dependent on the injection route of COAM. Experiments on the mode of action of COAM pointed to macrophages as possible mediators of the antiviral effect. The fact that small amounts of interferon appeared in the serum after administration of high doses of COAM suggests that interferon may play a role in the induction of antiviral resistance by COAM.
