Effects of salt treatment and osmotic stress on V-ATPase and V-PPase in leaves of the halophyte Suaeda salsa.	The Chenopodiaceae Suaeda salsa L. was grown under different salt concentrations and under osmotic stress. The fresh weight was markedly stimulated by 0.1 M NaCl, 0.4 M NaCl and 0.1 M KCl and reduced by osmotic stress (PEG iso-osmotic to 0.1 M NaCl). Treatment with 0.4 M KCl severely damaged the plants. Membrane vesicle fractions containing tonoplast vesicles were isolated by sucrose gradient from leaves of the S. salsa plants and modulations of V-ATPase and V-PPase depending on the growth conditions were determined. Western blot analysis revealed that V-ATPase of S. salsa consists of at least nine subunits (apparent molecular masses 66, 55, 52, 48, 36, 35, 29, 18, and 16 kDa). This polypeptide pattern did not depend on culture conditions. V-PPase is composed of a single polypeptide (69 kDa). An additional polypeptide (54 kDa) was detected in the fractions of NaCl-, KCl- and PEG-treated plants. It turned out that the main strategy of salt-tolerance of S. salsa seems to be an up-regulation of V-ATPase activity, which is required to energize the tonoplast for ion uptake into the vacuole, while V-PPase plays only a minor role. The increase in V-ATPase activity is not obtained by structural changes of the enzyme, but by an increase in V-ATPase protein amount.
From lysosomes to the plasma membrane: localization of vacuolar-type H+ -ATPase with the a3 isoform during osteoclast differentiation.	Osteoclasts generate a massive acid flux to mobilize bone calcium. Local extracellular acidification is carried out by vacuolar type H+-ATPase (V-ATPase) localized in the plasma membrane. We have shown that a3, one of the four subunit a isoforms (a1, a2, a3, and a4), is a component of the plasma membrane V-ATPase (Toyomura, T., Oka, T., Yamaguchi, C., Wada, Y., and Futai, M. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 8760-8765). To establish the unique localization of V-ATPase, we have used a murine macrophage cell line, RAW 264.7, that can differentiate into multinuclear osteoclast-like cells on stimulation with RANKL (receptor activator of nuclear factor kappaB ligand). The V-ATPase with the a3 isoform was localized to late endosomes and lysosomes, whereas those with the a1 and a2 isoforms were localized to organelles other than lysosomes. After stimulation, the V-ATPase with the a3 isoform was immunochemically colocalized with lysosome marker lamp2 and was detected in acidic organelles. These organelles were also colocalized with microtubules, and the signals of lamp2 and a3 were dispersed by nocodazole, a microtubule depolymerizer. In RAW-derived osteoclasts cultured on mouse skull pieces, the a3 isoform was transported to the plasma membrane facing the bone and accumulated inside podosome rings. These findings indicate that V-ATPases with the a3 isoform localized in late endosomes/lysosomes are transported to the cell periphery during differentiation and finally assembled into the plasma membrane of mature osteoclasts.
Trypanosoma brucei plasma membrane-type Ca(2+)-ATPase 1 (TbPMC1) and 2 (TbPMC2) genes encode functional Ca(2+)-ATPases localized to the acidocalcisomes and plasma membrane, and essential for Ca(2+) homeostasis and growth.	Trypanosoma brucei adaptation and survival in its host involve integrated regulation of Ca(2+) pumps (Ca(2+)-ATPases), which are essential in calcium ion homeostasis. Here we report the cloning and sequencing of two genes (TbPMC1 and TbPMC2) encoding plasma membrane-type Ca(2+)-ATPases (PMCAs) of T. brucei, an agent of African trypanosomiasis. Indirect immunofluorescence analysis using antibodies against the proteins and against epitope tags introduced into each protein showed that TbPMC1 co-localized with the vacuolar H(+)-pyrophosphatase to the acidocalcisomes while TbPMC2 localized to the plasma membrane. Northern and Western blot analyses revealed that TbPMC1 and TbPMC2 are up-regulated during blood stages. TbPMC1 and TbPMC2 suppressed the Ca(2+) hypersensitivity of a mutant of S. cerevisiae that has a defect in vacuolar Ca(2+) accumulation. T. brucei Ca(2+)-ATPase genes were functionally characterized by using double-stranded RNA interference (RNAi) methodology to produce inducible Ca(2+)-ATPase-deficient procyclic forms. Similar results were obtained with bloodstream form trypomastigotes, except that the RNAi system was leaky and mRNA and protein levels recovered with time. The induction of dsRNA (RNAi) caused gross morphological alterations, and growth inhibition of procyclic forms. Induction of RNAi against TbPMC1 but not against TbPMC2 caused elevated levels of cytosolic Ca(2+) and decreased mobilization of Ca(2+) from intracellular stores following ionophore addition. These results establish that T. brucei PMCA-Ca(2+)-ATPases are essential for parasite viability and validate them as targets for drug development.
Association of the 16-kDa subunit c of vacuolar proton pump with the ileal Na+-dependent bile acid transporter: protein-protein interaction and intracellular trafficking.	The rat ileal apical sodium-dependent bile acid transporter (Asbt) transports conjugated bile acids in a Na+-dependent fashion and localizes specifically to the apical surface of ileal enterocytes. The mechanisms that target organic anion transporters to different domains of the ileal enterocyte plasma membrane have not been well defined. Previous studies (Sung, A.-Q., Arresa, M. A., Zeng, L., Swaby, I'K., Zhou, M. M., and Suchy, F. J. (2001) J. Biol. Chem. 276, 6825-6833) from our laboratory demonstrated that rat Asbt follows an apical sorting pathway that is brefeldin A-sensitive and insensitive to protein glycosylation, monensin treatment, and low temperature shift. Furthermore, a 14-mer signal sequence that adopts a beta-turn conformation is required for apical localization of rat Asbt. In this study, a vacuolar proton pump subunit (VPP-c, the 16-kDa subunit c of vacuolar H+-ATPase) has been identified as an interacting partner of Asbt by a bacterial two-hybrid screen. A direct protein-protein interaction between Asbt and VPP-c was confirmed in an in vitro pull-down assay and in an in vivo mammalian two-hybrid analysis. Indirect immunofluorescence confocal microscopy demonstrated that the Asbt and VPP-c colocalized in transfected COS-7 and MDCK cells. Moreover, bafilomycin A1 (a specific inhibitor of VPP) interrupted the colocalization of Asbt and VPP-c. A taurocholate influx assay and membrane biotinylation analysis showed that treatment with bafilomycin A1 resulted in a significant decrease in bile acid transport activity and the apical membrane localization of Asbt in transfected cells. Thus, these results suggest that the apical membrane localization of Asbt is mediated in part by the vacuolar proton pump associated apical sorting machinery.
Plasmalemmal vacuolar-type H+-ATPase in cancer biology.	Vacuolar-type H+-adenosine triphosphatase (V-ATPase) is one of the most fundamental enzymes in nature. V-ATPases are responsible for the regulation of proton concentration in the intracellular acidic compartments. It has similar structure with the mitochondrial F0F1-ATP synthase (F-ATPase). dagger The V-ATPases are composed of multiple subunits and have various physiological functions, including membrane and organelle protein sorting, neurotransmitter uptake, cellular degradative processes, and cytosolic pH regulation. The V-ATPases have been involved in multidrug resistance. Recently, plasma membrane V-ATPases have been involved in regulation of extracellular acidity, essential for cellular invasiveness and proliferation in tumor metastasis. The current knowledge regarding the structure and function of V-ATPase and its role in cancer biology is discussed.
Intracellular kinetics of iron in reticulocytes: evidence for endosome involvement in iron targeting to mitochondria.	In erythroid cells the vast majority of iron (Fe) released from endosomes must cross both the outer and the inner mitochondrial membranes to reach ferrochelatase that inserts Fe into protoporphyrin IX. In the present study, we developed a method whereby a cohort of 59Fe-transferrin (Tf)-laden endosomal vesicles were generated, from which we could evaluate the transfer of 59Fe into mitochondria. Iron chelators, dipyridyl or salicylaldehyde isonicotinoyl hydrazone (SIH), were able to bind the 59Fe when they were present during a 37 degrees C incubation; however, addition of these agents only during lysis at 4 degrees C chelated virtually no 59Fe. Bafilomycin A1 (which prevents endosome acidification) and succinylacetone (an inhibitor of 5-aminolevulinate dehydratase) prevented endosomal 59Fe incorporation into heme. Importantly, both the myosin light chain kinase inhibitor wortmannin and the calmodulin antagonist, N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalene-sulfonamide (W-7), caused significant inhibition of 59Fe incorporation from 59Fe-Tf-labeled endosomes into heme, suggesting that myosin is required for Tf-vesicle movement. Our results reaffirm the astonishing efficiency of Tf-derived Fe utilization in hemoglobin (Hb)-producing cells and demonstrate that very little of this Fe is present in a chelatable pool. Collectively, these results are congruent with our hypothesis that a transient endosome-mitochondrion interaction mediates iron transfer between these organelles.
Acid-base regulation in isolated gill cells of the goldfish (Carassius auratus).	Mechanisms of acid release and intracellular pH (pH(i)) homeostasis were analysed in goldfish (Carassius auratus) gill cells in primary culture. The rate of acid secretion was measured using a cytosensor microphysiometer, and pH(i) was determined using the fluorescent probe 2',7'-bis-(3-carboxypropyl)-5-(and-6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCPCF). Amiloride, a Na(+) channel and Na(+)/H(+) exchanger (NHE) inhibitor, had no effect on pH(i), but acid secretion of the gill cells was significantly impaired. In the presence of amiloride, the intracellular acidification (achieved using the NH(4)Cl pulse technique) was more severe than in the absence of amiloride, and recovery from the acidosis was slowed down. Accordingly, acid secretion of gill cells was severely reduced in the absence of extracellular Na(+). Under steady-state conditions, 4,4'-diisothiocyanatodihydro-stilbene-2,2'-disulfonic acid (DIDS), a HCO(3)(-)-transport inhibitor, caused a slow acidification of pH(i), and acid secretion was significantly reduced. No recovery from intracellular acidification was observed in the presence of DIDS. Bafilomycin A(1), an inhibitor of V-ATPase, had no effect on steady-state pH(i) and recovery from an intracellular acidification, whereas the rate of acid secretion under steady-state conditions was slightly reduced. Immunohistochemistry clearly revealed the presence of the V-ATPase B-subunit in goldfish gill lamellae. Taken together, these results suggest that a Na(+)-dependent HCO(3)(-) transport is the dominant mechanism besides an NHE and V-ATPase to control pH(i) in goldfish gill cells.
Modulation of the actin cytoskeleton via gelsolin regulates vacuolar H+-ATPase recycling.	The role of the actin cytoskeleton in regulating membrane protein trafficking is complex and depends on the cell type and protein being examined. Using the epididymis as a model system in which luminal acidification is crucial for sperm maturation and storage, we now report that modulation of the actin cytoskeleton by the calcium-activated actin-capping and -severing protein gelsolin plays a key role in regulating vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) recycling. Epididymal clear cells contain abundant V-ATPase in their apical pole, and an increase in their cell-surface V-ATPase expression correlates with an increase in luminal proton secretion. We have shown that apical membrane accumulation of V-ATPase is triggered by an elevation in cAMP following activation of bicarbonate-regulated soluble adenylyl cyclase in response to alkaline luminal pH (Pastor-Soler, N., Beaulieu, V., Litvin, T. N., Da Silva, N., Chen, Y., Brown, D., Buck, J., Levin, L. R., and Breton, S. (2003) J. Biol. Chem. 278, 49523-49529). Here, we show that clear cells express high levels of gelsolin, indicating a potential role in the functional activity of these cells. When jasplakinolide was used to overcome the severing action of gelsolin by polymerizing actin, complete inhibition of the alkaline pH- and cAMP-induced apical membrane accumulation of V-ATPase was observed. Conversely, when gelsolin-mediated actin filament elongation was inhibited using a 10-residue peptide (PBP10) derived from the phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-binding region (phosphoinositide-binding domain 2) of gelsolin, significant V-ATPase apical membrane mobilization was induced, even at acidic luminal pH. In contrast, the calcium chelator 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid tetrakis(acetoxymethyl ester) and the phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122 inhibited the alkaline pH-induced V-ATPase apical accumulation. Thus, maintenance of the actin cytoskeleton in a depolymerized state by gelsolin facilitates calcium-dependent apical accumulation of V-ATPase in response to luminal pH alkalinization. Gelsolin is present in other cell types that express the V-ATPase in their plasma membrane and recycling vesicles, including kidney intercalated cells and osteoclasts. Therefore, modulation of the actin cortex by this severing and capping protein may represent a common mechanism by which these cells regulate their rate of proton secretion.
Regulation of branchial V-H(+)-ATPase, Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase and NHE2 in response to acid and base infusions in the Pacific spiny dogfish (Squalus acanthias).	To study the mechanisms of branchial acid-base regulation, Pacific spiny dogfish were infused intravenously for 24 h with either HCl (495+/- 79 micromol kg(-1) h(-1)) or NaHCO(3) (981+/-235 micromol kg(-1) h(-1)). Infusion of HCl produced a transient reduction in blood pH. Despite continued infusion of acid, pH returned to normal by 12 h. Infusion of NaHCO(3) resulted in a new steady-state acid-base status at approximately 0.3 pH units higher than the controls. Immunostained serial sections of gill revealed the presence of separate vacuolar proton ATPase (V-H(+)-ATPase)-rich or sodium-potassium ATPase (Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase)-rich cells in all fish examined. A minority of the cells also labeled positive for both transporters. Gill cell membranes prepared from NaHCO(3)-infused fish showed significant increases in both V-H(+)-ATPase abundance (300+/-81%) and activity. In addition, we found that V-H(+)-ATPase subcellular localization was mainly cytoplasmic in control and HCl-infused fish, while NaHCO(3)-infused fish demonstrated a distinctly basolateral staining pattern. Western analysis in gill membranes from HCl-infused fish also revealed increased abundance of Na(+)/H(+) exchanger 2 (213+/-5%) and Na(+)/K(+)-ATPase (315+/-88%) compared to the control.
Release of ecdysteroid-phosphates from egg yolk granules and their dephosphorylation during early embryonic development in silkworm, Bombyx mori.	Newly laid eggs of many insect species store maternal ecdysteroids as physiologically inactive phosphoric esters. In the silkworm Bombyx mori, we previously reported the presence of a specific enzyme, called ecdysteroid-phosphate phosphatase (EPPase), which catalyzes the dephosphorylation of ecdysteroid-phosphates to increase the amount of free ecdysteroids during early embryonic development. In this study, we demonstrated that (1) EPPase is found in the cytosol of yolk cells, (2) ecdysteroid-phosphates are localized in yolk granules, being bound to the yolk protein vitellin (Vn), and (3) Vn-bound ecdysteroid-phosphates are scarcely hydrolyzed by EPPase, although free ecdysteroid-phosphates are completely hydrolyzed by EPPase. Thus, we investigated the mechanism by which ecdysteroid-phosphates dissociate from the Vn-ecdysteroid-phosphate complex, and indicated that the acidification of yolk granules causes the dissociation of ecdysteroid-phosphates from the Vn-ecdysteroid-phosphate complex and thereby ecdysteroid-phosphates are released from yolk granules into the cytosol. Indeed, the presence of vacuolar-type proton-translocating ATPase in the membrane fraction of yolk granules was also verified by Western blot analysis. Our experiments revealed that Vn functions as a reservoir of maternal ovarian ecdysteroid-phosphates as well as a nutritional source during embryonic development. This is the first report showing the biochemical mechanism by which maternal Vn-bound ecdysteroid-phosphates function during early embryonic development.
V-H+ -ATPase translocation during blood alkalosis in dogfish gills: interaction with carbonic anhydrase and involvement in the postfeeding alkaline tide.	We investigated the involvement of carbonic anhydrase (CA) in mediating V-H(+)-ATPase translocation into the basolateral membrane in gills of alkalotic Squalus acanthias. Immunolabeling revealed that CA is localized in the same cells as V-H(+)-ATPase. Blood plasma from dogfish injected with acetazolamide [30 mg/kg at time (t) = 0 and 6 h] and infused with NaHCO(3) for 12 h (1,000 microeq.kg(-1).h(-1)) had significantly higher plasma HCO(3)(-) concentration than fish that were infused with NaHCO(3) alone (28.72 +/- 0.41 vs. 6.57 +/- 2.47 mmol/l, n = 3), whereas blood pH was similar in both treatments (8.03 +/- 0.11 vs. 8.04 +/- 0.11 pH units at t = 12 h). CA inhibition impaired V-H(+)-ATPase translocation into the basolateral membrane, as estimated from immunolabeled gill sections and Western blotting on gill cell membranes (0.24 +/- 0.08 vs. 1.00 +/- 0.28 arbitrary units, n = 3; P < 0.05). We investigated V-H(+)-ATPase translocation during a postfeeding alkalosis ("alkaline tide"). Gill samples were taken 24-26 h after dogfish were fed to satiety in a natural-like feeding regime. Immunolabeled gill sections revealed that V-H(+)-ATPase translocated to the basolateral membrane in the postfed fish. Confirming this result, V-H(+)-ATPase abundance was twofold higher in gill cell membranes of the postfed fish than in fasted fish (n = 4-5; P < 0.05). These results indicate that 1) intracellular H(+) or HCO(3)(-) produced by CA (and not blood pH or HCO(3)(-)) is likely the stimulus that triggers the V-H(+)-ATPase translocation into the basolateral membrane in alkalotic fish and 2) V-H(+)-ATPase translocation is important for enhanced HCO(3)(-) secretion during a naturally occurring postfeeding alkalosis.
Effects of cellular cholesterol loading on macrophage foam cell lysosome acidification.	Macrophages incubated with mildly oxidized low density lipoprotein (OxLDL), aggregated low density lipoprotein (AggLDL), or cholesteryl ester-rich lipid dispersions (DISPs) accumulate cholesterol in lysosomes followed by an inhibition of lysosomal cholesteryl ester (CE) hydrolysis. The variety of cholesterol-containing particles producing inhibition of hydrolysis suggests that inhibition may relate to general changes in lysosomes. Lysosome pH is a key mediator of activity and thus is a potential mechanism for lipid-induced inhibition. We investigated the effects of cholesterol accumulation on THP-1 macrophage lysosome pH. Treatment with OxLDL, AggLDL, and DISPs resulted in inhibition of the lysosome's ability to maintain an active pH and concomitant decreases in CE hydrolysis. Consistent with an overall disruption of lysosome function, exposure to OxLDL or AggLDL reduced lysosomal apolipoprotein B degradation. The lysosomal cholesterol sequestration and inactivation are not observed in cholesterol-equivalent cells loaded using acetylated low density lipoprotein (AcLDL). However, AcLDL-derived cholesterol in the presence of progesterone (to block cholesterol egression from lysosomes) inhibited lysosome acidification. Lysosome inhibition was not attributable to a decrease in the overall levels of vacuolar ATPase. However, augmentation of membrane cholesterol in isolated lysosomes inhibited vacuolar ATPase-dependent pumping of H+ ions into lysosomes. These data indicate that lysosomal cholesterol accumulation alters lysosomes in ways that could exacerbate foam cell formation and influence atherosclerotic lesion development.
H+ pump-dependent changes in membrane voltage are an early mechanism necessary and sufficient to induce Xenopus tail regeneration.	In many systems, ion flows and long-term endogenous voltage gradients regulate patterning events, but molecular details remain mysterious. To establish a mechanistic link between biophysical events and regeneration, we investigated the role of ion transport during Xenopus tail regeneration. We show that activity of the V-ATPase H(+) pump is required for regeneration but not wound healing or tail development. The V-ATPase is specifically upregulated in existing wound cells by 6 hours post-amputation. Pharmacological or molecular genetic loss of V-ATPase function and the consequent strong depolarization abrogates regeneration without inducing apoptosis. Uncut tails are normally mostly polarized, with discrete populations of depolarized cells throughout. After amputation, the normal regeneration bud is depolarized, but by 24 hours post-amputation becomes rapidly repolarized by the activity of the V-ATPase, and an island of depolarized cells appears just anterior to the regeneration bud. Tail buds in a non-regenerative ;refractory' state instead remain highly depolarized relative to uncut or regenerating tails. Depolarization caused by V-ATPase loss-of-function results in a drastic reduction of cell proliferation in the bud, a profound mispatterning of neural components, and a failure to regenerate. Crucially, induction of H(+) flux is sufficient to rescue axonal patterning and tail outgrowth in otherwise non-regenerative conditions. These data provide the first detailed mechanistic synthesis of bioelectrical, molecular and cell-biological events underlying the regeneration of a complex vertebrate structure that includes spinal cord, and suggest a model of the biophysical and molecular steps underlying tail regeneration. Control of H(+) flows represents a very important new modality that, together with traditional biochemical approaches, may eventually allow augmentation of regeneration for therapeutic applications.
The 16 kDa subunit of vacuolar H+-ATPase is a novel sarcoglycan-interacting protein.	The sarcoglycan complex in muscle consists of alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-sarcoglycan and is part of the larger dystrophin-glycoprotein complex (DGC), which is essential for maintaining muscle membrane integrity. Mutations in any of the four sarcoglycans cause limb-girdle muscular dystrophies (LGMD). In this report, we have identified a novel interaction between delta-sarcoglycan and the 16 kDa subunit c (16K) of vacuolar H(+)-ATPase. Co-expression studies in heterologous cell system revealed that 16K interacts specifically with delta-sarcoglycan and the highly related gamma-sarcoglycan through the transmembrane domains. In cultured C2C12 myotubes, 16K forms a complex with sarcoglycans at the plasma membrane. Loss of sarcoglycans in the sarcoglycan-deficient BIO14.6 hamster destabilizes the DGC and alters the localization of 16K at the sarcolemma. In addition, the steady state level of beta(1)-integrin is increased. Recent studies have shown that 16K also interacts directly with beta(1)-integrin and our data demonstrated that sarcoglycans, 16K and beta(1)-integrin were immunoprecipitated together in C2C12 myotubes. Since sarcoglycans have been proposed to participate in bi-directional signaling with integrins, our findings suggest that 16K might mediate the communication between sarcoglycans and integrins and play an important role in the pathogenesis of muscular dystrophy.
Functional renin receptors in renal mesangial cells.	Activation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and generation of angiotensin II (Ang II) play a crucial role in fibrotic renal disease beyond this system's hemodynamic actions. Ang II blockade was a great therapeutic breakthrough for renal and cardiovascular diseases; however, this slows, but does not stop, disease progression. These limitations leave other molecules unopposed to sustain disease progression. One is renin, which is markedly elevated by Ang II blockade. Recently, a new renin receptor was cloned in renal mesangial cells. This receptor acts as a renin/prorenin cofactor on the cell surface, enhancing efficiency of angiotensinogen cleavage by renin and unmasking prorenin catalytic activity. Unexpectedly, the receptor induces angiotensin-independent cellular effects in renal mesangial cells, suggesting that renin has novel receptor-mediated actions that could play a role in renal fibrosis. Proof of this could lead to a pharmacological compound blocking renin/prorenin binding and activity as an alternative or adjunct to classical inhibitors of the RAS.
V-ATPase expression in the mouse olfactory epithelium.	The vacuolar proton-pumping ATPase (V-ATPase) is responsible for the acidification of intracellular organelles and for the pH regulation of extracellular compartments. Because of the potential role of the latter process in olfaction, we examined the expression of V-ATPase in mouse olfactory epithelial (OE) cells. We report that V-ATPase is present in this epithelium, where we detected subunits ATP6V1A (the 70-kDa "A" subunit) and ATP6V1E1 (the ubiquitous 31-kDa "E" subunit isoform) in epithelial cells, nerve fiber cells, and Bowman's glands by immunocytochemistry. We also located both isoforms of the 56-kDa B subunit, ATP6V1B1 ("B1," typically expressed in epithelia specialized in regulated transepithelial proton transport) and ATP6V1B2 ("B2") in the OE. B1 localizes to the microvilli of the apical plasma membrane of sustentacular cells and to the lateral membrane in a subset of olfactory sensory cells, which also express carbonic anhydrase type IV, whereas B2 expression is stronger in the subapical domain of sustentacular cells. V-ATPase expression in mouse OE was further confirmed by immunoblotting. These findings suggest that V-ATPase may be involved in proton secretion in the OE and, as such, may be important for the pH homeostasis of the neuroepithelial mucous layer and/or for signal transduction in CO(2) detection.
Functional characterization of the N-terminal domain of subunit H (Vma13p) of the yeast vacuolar ATPase.	The yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) is a multisubunit complex responsible for acidifying intracellular organelles and is highly regulated. One of the regulatory subunits, subunit H, is encoded by the VMA13 gene in yeast and is composed of two domains, the N-terminal domain (amino acids (aa) 1-352) and the C-terminal domain (aa 353-478). The N-terminal domain is required for the activation of the complex, whereas the C-terminal domain is required for coupling ATP hydrolysis to proton translocation (Liu, M., Tarsio, M., Charsky, C. M., and Kane, P. M. (2005) J. Biol. Chem. 280, 36978-36985). Experiments with epitope-tagged copies of Vma13p revealed that there is only one copy of Vma13p/subunit H per V-ATPase complex. Analysis of the N-terminal domain shows that the first 179 amino acids are not required for the activation and full function of the V-ATPase complex and that the minimal region of Vma13p/subunit H capable of activating the V-ATPase is aa 180-353 of the N-terminal domain. Subunit H is expressed as two splice variants in mammals, and deletion of 18 amino acids in yeast Vma13p corresponding to the mammalian subunit H beta isoform results in reduced V-ATPase activity and significantly lower coupling of ATPase hydrolysis to proton translocation. Intriguingly, the yeast Vma13p mimicking the mammalian subunit H beta isoform is functionally equivalent to Vma13p lacking the entire C-terminal domain. These results suggest that the mammalian V-ATPase complexes with subunit H splice variant SFD-alpha or SFD-beta are likely to have different activities and may perform distinct cellular functions.
Identification of enoxacin as an inhibitor of osteoclast formation and bone resorption by structure-based virtual screening.	An interaction between the B2 subunit of vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) and microfilaments is required for osteoclast bone resorption. An atomic homology model of the actin binding site on B2 was generated and molecular docking simulations were performed. Enoxacin, a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, was identified and in vitro testing demonstrated that enoxacin blocked binding between purified B2 and microfilaments. Enoxacin dose dependently reduced the number of osteoclasts differentiating in mouse marrow cultures stimulated with 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D(3), as well as markers of osteoclast activity, and the number of resorption lacunae formed on bone slices. Enoxacin inhibited osteoclast formation at concentrations where osteoblast formation was not altered. In summary, enoxacin is a novel small molecule inhibitor of osteoclast bone resorption that acts by an unique mechanism and is therefore an attractive lead molecule for the development of a new class of antiosteoclastic agents.
Effects of 4-aminopyridine on organelle movement in cultured mouse dorsal root ganglion neurites.	Aminopyridines, widely used as a K(+) channel blocker, are membrane-permeable weak bases and have the ability to form vacuoles in the cytoplasm. The vacuoles originate from acidic organelles such as lysosomes. Here, we investigated the effects of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) on organelle movement in neurites of cultured mouse dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons by using video-enhanced microscopy. Some experiments were carried out using fluorescent dyes for lysosomes and mitochondria and confocal microscopy. Treatment of DRG neurons with 4 mM 4-AP caused Brownian movement of some lysosomes within 5 min. The Brownian movement gradually became rapid and vacuoles were formed around individual lysosomes 10-20 min after the start of treatment. Axonal transport of organelles was inhibited by 4-AP. Lysosomes showing Brownian movement were not transported in longitudinal direction of the neurite and the transport of mitochondria was interrupted by vacuoles. The 4-AP-induced Brownian movement of lysosomes with vacuole formation and inhibition of axonal transport were prevented by the simultaneous treatment with vacuolar H(+) ATPase inhibitor bafilomycin A1 or in Cl(-)-free SO(4)(2-) medium. These results indicate that changes in organelle movement by 4-AP are related to vacuole formation and the vacuolar H(+) ATPase and Cl(-) are required for the effects of 4-AP.
Vacuolar H+-ATPase apical accumulation in kidney intercalated cells is regulated by PKA and AMP-activated protein kinase.	The vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) in type A kidney intercalated cells is a major contributor to acid excretion in the collecting duct. The mechanisms of V-ATPase-trafficking regulation in kidney intercalated cells have not been well-characterized. In developmentally related epididymal clear cells, we showed previously that PKA, acting downstream of soluble adenylyl cyclase (sAC), induces V-ATPase apical membrane accumulation. These PKA-mediated effects were inhibited by activators of the metabolic sensor AMP-activated kinase (AMPK) in clear cells. Here, we examined the regulation of V-ATPase subcellular localization in intercalated cells by PKA and AMPK in rat kidney tissue slices ex vivo. Immunofluorescence labeling of kidney slices revealed that the PKA activator N(6)-monobutyryl cAMP (6-MB-cAMP) induced V-ATPase apical membrane accumulation in collecting duct intercalated cells, whereas the V-ATPase had a more cytosolic distribution when incubated in Ringer buffer alone for 30 min. V-ATPase accumulated at the apical membrane in intercalated cells in kidney slices incubated in Ringer buffer for 75 min, an effect that was prevented by treatment with PKA inhibitor (mPKI). The V-ATPase distribution was cytosolic in intercalated cells treated with the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor acetazolamide or the sAC inhibitor KH7, effects that were overridden by 6-MB-cAMP. Preincubation of kidney slices with an AMPK activator blocked V-ATPase apical membrane accumulation induced by 6-MB-cAMP, suggesting that AMPK antagonizes cAMP/PKA effects on V-ATPase distribution. Taken together, our results suggest that in intercalated cells V-ATPase subcellular localization and therefore its activity may be coupled to acid-base status via PKA, and metabolic status via AMPK.
Stable and sensitive probes for lysosomes: cell-penetrating fluorescent calix[4]arenes accumulate in acidic vesicles.	The uptake of a fluorescently labeled cationic calix[4] (NBDCalAm) in live, nonfixed cells has been investigated. The compound is taken into the cells rapidly and shows distinct endosomal distribution after 2 hours. This distribution pattern shows colocalization with lysosomal staining. The uptake is not altered by inhibition of clathrin or caveolae dependent pathways nor by depletion of the cellular ATP-pool. Immediately after uptake the probe is localized in the Golgi and brefeldin A treatment prevents transport to lysosomes. Pulse chase experiments with bafilomycin A1, monensin, and sodium azide showed that accumulation and retention of the probe in lysosomes is primarily driven by the activity of vacuolar ATPases. The NBD labeled calix[4]arene provides a very stable and sensitive marker for lysosomes, and has a considerable advantage over some commercially available lysosomal markers in so far that the fluorescent signal is stable even when the cells are incubated in dye-free medium after staining.
A role for V-ATPase subunits in synaptic vesicle fusion?	SNARE (soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor attachment protein receptors)-mediated exocytotic release of neurotransmitters is a key process in neuronal communication, controlled by a number of molecular interactions. A synaptic vesicle v-SNARE protein (VAMP2 or synaptobrevin), in association with two plasma membrane t-SNAREs (syntaxin 1 and SNAP25), assemble to form a protein complex that is largely accepted as the minimal membrane fusion machine. Acidification of the synaptic vesicle lumen by the large multi-subunit vacuolar proton pump (V-ATPase) is required for loading with neurotransmitters. Recent data demonstrate a direct interaction between the c-subunit of the V-ATPase and VAMP2 that appears to play a role at a late step in transmitter release. In this review, we examine evidence suggesting that the V0 membrane sector of the V-ATPase not only participates in proton pumping, but plays a second distinct role in neurosecretion, downstream of filling and close to vesicle fusion.
Vacuolar H(+)-ATPases: intra- and intermolecular interactions.	V-ATPases in eukaryotes are heteromultimeric, H(+)-transporting proteins. They are localized in a multitude of different membranes and energize many different transport processes. Unique features of V-ATPases are, on the one hand, their ability to regulate enzymatic and ion transporting activity by the reversible dissociation of the catalytic V(1) complex from the membrane bound proton translocating V(0) complex and, on the other hand, their high sensitivity to specific macrolides such as bafilomycin and concanamycin from streptomycetes or archazolid and apicularen from myxomycetes. Both features require distinct intramolecular as well as intermolecular interactions. Here we will summarize our own results together with newer developments in both of these research areas.
The a3 isoform vacuolar type H⁺-ATPase promotes distant metastasis in the mouse B16 melanoma cells.	Accumulating evidence indicates that the acidic microenvironments critically influence malignant behaviors of cancer including invasiveness, metastasis, and chemoresistance. Because the vacuolar-type H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) has been shown to cause extracellular acidification by pumping protons, we studied the role of V-ATPase in distant metastasis. Real-time PCR analysis revealed that the high-metastatic B16-F10 melanoma cells strongly expressed the a3 isoform V-ATPase compared to the low-metastatic B16 parental cells. Consistent with this, B16-F10 cells created acidic environments in lung metastases by acridine orange staining and strong a3 V-ATPase expression in bone metastases by immunohistochemistry. Immunocytochemical analysis showed B16-F10 cells expressed a3 V-ATPase not only in cytoplasm but also plasma membrane, whereas B16 parental cells exhibited its expression only in cytoplasm. Of note, knockdown of a3 V-ATPase suppressed invasiveness and migration with reduced MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression in B16-F10 cells and significantly decreased lung and bone metastases, despite that tumor growth was not altered. Importantly, administration of a specific V-ATPase a3 inhibitor FR167356 reduced bone metastasis of B16-F10 cells. These results suggest that a3 V-ATPase promotes distant metastasis of B16-F10 cells by creating acidic environments via proton secretion. Our results also suggest that inhibition of the development of cancer-associated acidic environments by suppressing a3 V-ATPase could be a novel therapeutic approach for the treatment of cancer metastasis.
Acidosis-induced V-ATPase trafficking in salivary ducts is initiated by cAMP/PKA/CREB pathway via regulation of Rab11b expression.	Changes in systemic acid-base homeostasis cause a series of organ-specific cellular responses, among them changes of acid-base transporter activities, and recruitment or retrieval of these transporters from intracellular pools to the plasma membrane and vice versa. The purpose of this study was to investigate the impact of protein phosphorylation in the acidosis-induced translocation of vacuolar-type H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase) in salivary ducts and to identify molecular targets. Therefore, the human submandibular gland cell line HSG was exposed to acidosis and V-ATPase trafficking was investigated in the presence or absence of inhibitors and activators of sAC/PKA and Src/ERK signaling pathways. Putative target genes have been identified by RT-PCR and immunoblotting, and validated by loss-of-function experiments. Acidosis caused activation of cAMP/PKA and Src signaling and inhibition of either pathway significantly impaired acidosis-induced V-ATPase redistribution and incorporation into the plasma membrane. Activation of ERK1/2 was Src-independent, whereas activation of PKA caused phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding (CREB) and activation to regulate Rab11b transcription. Loss-of-function of CREB down-regulated Rab11b transcript and protein and significantly impaired acidosis-induced V-ATPase translocation in HSG cells. These data demonstrate that the cAMP/PKA/CREB signaling pathway initiates acidosis-induced V-ATPase trafficking in salivary ducts via regulation of Rab11b expression and provide first evidence for a molecular mechanism underlying cAMP/PKA-dependent transporter trafficking that could account for accumulation and activity of transporters in other cellular systems as well.
Prorenin receptor regulates more than the renin-angiotensin system.	The (pro)renin receptor (PRR) was initially believed to be a contributor to the pathogenesis of cardiovascular diseases via the amplification of renin- or prorenin-induced angiotensin (Ang) formation. However, a recent paradigm shift suggests a new role for PRR, separate from the renin-angiotensin system (RAS), in contributing to cellular homeostasis. Specifically, PRR is thought to be essential for vacuolar H(+) -ATPase (V-ATPase) activity and acts as an adaptor between the V-ATPase and the Wnt signalling pathway. Recent PRR conditional knock-out studies have confirmed this link between V-ATPase and PRR, with deletion resulting in the accumulation of autophagic vacuoles and animal lethality. The molecular mechanism by which PRR contributes to V-ATPase activity, and whether multiple signalling pathways are affected by PRR loss, is currently unknown. Additionally, cleavage by furin at a single site within full-length PRR results in the production of a soluble form of the receptor, which is detectable in plasma. Soluble PRR is hypothesized to bind to specific ligands and receptors and mediate signal transduction pathways. Understanding the physiological function of full-length and soluble PRR will be important for establishing its role in pathology.
A role for presenilins in autophagy revisited: normal acidification of lysosomes in cells lacking PSEN1 and PSEN2.	Presenilins 1 and 2 (PS1 and PS2) are the catalytic subunits of the γ-secretase complex, and genes encoding mutant PS1 and PS2 variants cause familial forms of Alzheimer's disease. Lee et al. (2010) recently reported that loss of PS1 activity lead to impairments in autophagosomal function as a consequence of lysosomal alkalinization, caused by failed maturation of the proton translocating V0a1 subunit of the vacuolar (H+)-ATPase and targeting to the lysosome. We have reexamined these issues in mammalian cells and in brains of mice lacking PS (PScdko) and have been unable to find evidence that the turnover of autophagic substrates, vesicle pH, V0a1 maturation, or lysosome function is altered compared with wild-type counterparts. Collectively, our studies fail to document a role for presenilins in regulating cellular autophagosomal function. On the other hand, our transcriptome studies of PScdko mouse brains reveal, for the first time, a role for PS in regulating lysosomal biogenesis.
Tonoplast calcium sensors CBL2 and CBL3 control plant growth and ion homeostasis through regulating V-ATPase activity in Arabidopsis.	Plant responses to developmental and environmental cues are often mediated by calcium (Ca(2+)) signals that are transmitted by diverse calcium sensors. The calcineurin B-like (CBL) protein family represents calcium sensors that decode calcium signals through specific interactions with a group of CBL-interacting protein kinases. We report functional analysis of Arabidopsis CBL2 and CBL3, two closely related CBL members that are localized to the vacuolar membrane through the N-terminal tonoplast-targeting sequence. While cbl2 or cbl3 single mutant did not show any phenotypic difference from the wild type, the cbl2 cbl3 double mutant was stunted with leaf tip necrosis, underdeveloped roots, shorter siliques and fewer seeds. These defects were reminiscent of those in the vha-a2 vha-a3 double mutant deficient in vacuolar H(+)-ATPase (V-ATPase). Indeed, the V-ATPase activity was reduced in the cbl2 cbl3 double mutant, connecting tonoplast CBL-type calcium sensors to the regulation of V-ATPase. Furthermore, cbl2 cbl3 double mutant was compromised in ionic tolerance and micronutrient accumulation, consistent with the defect in V-ATPase activity that has been shown to function in ion compartmentalization. Our results suggest that calcium sensors CBL2 and CBL3 serve as molecular links between calcium signaling and V-ATPase, a central regulator of intracellular ion homeostasis.
Extracellular glucose increases the coupling capacity of the yeast V H+-ATPase and the resistance of its H+ transport activity to nitrate inhibition.	V H(+)-ATPase has an important role in a variety of key physiological processes. This enzyme is reversibly activated/partly inactivated by the addition/exhaustion of extracellular glucose. The current model of its regulation assumes the reversible disassembly/reassembly of ∼60-70% of the V1 and V0 membrane complexes, which are responsible for ATP hydrolysis and H(+) conductance, respectively. The number of assembled complexes determines the pump activity because disassembled complexes are inactive. The model predicts the identical catalytic properties for the activated and semi-active enzymes molecules. To verify the model predictions we have isolated total membranes from yeast spheroplasts that were pre-incubated either with or without glucose. Nitrate treatment of membranes revealed the similar ATPase inhibition for two enzyme states, suggesting that they have identical structures that are essential for ATP hydrolysis. However, H(+) transport was inhibited more than the ATPase activities, indicating a nitrate uncoupling action, which was significantly higher for the nonactivated enzyme. This finding suggests that the structure of the non-activated enzyme, which is essential for H(+) transport, is less stable than that of the activated enzyme. Moreover, the glucose activation of the pump increases i) its coupling capacity; ii) its K(M) for ATP hydrolysis and ATP affinity for H(+) transport; iii) the Vmax for H(+) transport in comparison with the Vmax for ATP hydrolysis and iv) the immune reactivity of catalytic subunit A and regulatory subunit B by 9.3 and 2.4 times, respectively. The protein content of subunits A and B was not changed by extracellular glucose. We propose that instead of the dissociation/reassociation of complexes V1 and V0, changes in the extracellular glucose concentration cause reversible and asymmetrical modulations in the immune reactivity of subunits A and B by their putative biochemical modifications. This response asymmetrically modulates H(+)-transport and ATP hydrolysis, exhibiting distinct properties for the activated versus non-activated enzymes.
The vesicular ATPase: a missing link between acidification and exocytosis.	The vesicular adenosine triphosphatase (ATPase) acidifies intracellular compartments, including synaptic vesicles and secretory granules. A controversy about a second function of this ATPase in exocytosis has been fuelled by questions about multiple putative roles of acidification in the exocytic process. Now, Poëa-Guyon et al. (2013. J. Cell Biol. http://dx.doi.org/10.1083/jcb.201303104) present new evidence that the vesicular ATPase performs separate acidification and exocytosis roles and propose a mechanism for how these two functions are causally linked. 
IL-12 and IL-27 regulate the phagolysosomal pathway in mycobacteria-infected human macrophages.	The cytokine environment at the site of infection is important to the control of mycobacteria by host macrophages. During chronic infection immunosuppressive cytokines are likely to favor mycobacterial growth, persistence, and an avoidance of proper antigen processing and presentation. The activity of interleukin (IL)-27 toward macrophages is anti-inflammatory and this compromises control of mycobacteria. Modulation of the cytokine environment may enhance both protective and vaccine-induced responses.
