Total urogenital sinus mobilization in the repair of cloacal anomalies and congenital adrenal hyperplasia.	Urogenital sinus mobilization has facilitated markedly the vaginal reconstruction in cases of cloacal anomalies. Application of the same technique in cases of congenital adrenal hyperplasia has resulted in cosmetic and functional improvement.
Substantial variability in postoperative treatment, and convalescence recommendations following vaginal repair. A nationwide questionnaire study.	Postoperative care and convalescence recommendations following vaginal surgery are generally not evidence based. The aim of this study was to describe pre and postoperative treatment, and advice and restrictions for the convalescence period, given by Danish hospital-employed gynecologists, and gynecologists in private practice, to patients undergoing vaginal repair.
Introital stenosis requiring pelvic resection and soft tissue reconstruction.	Introital stenosis from both bony and soft tissue contracture is an unusual clinical problem not well addressed in the literature.
Objective and subjective cure rates after tension-free vaginal tape for treatment of urinary incontinence.	To assess the objective and subjective cure rates after the tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) procedure in women with urinary incontinence.
Polypropylene sling for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence.	Sling procedures have been used successfully for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence. Using similar surgical principles to the cadaveric fascia sling, we describe the placement of a thinly woven Prolene mesh under the mid to distal urethra. We describe our technique and report our initial early results. Technical Considerations. A total of 98 consecutive patients were evaluated. All patients had clinical evidence of stress urinary incontinence. The patients underwent a preoperative evaluation with video- urodynamic studies, symptom questionnaire, and cystoscopy. A 1 x 10-cm Prolene mesh was placed under the mid to distal urethra. Postoperatively, the patients were evaluated at 3-month intervals with a symptom questionnaire, physical examination, and postvoid residual volume determination.
Vaginal evisceration after hysterectomy: the repair by a laparoscopic and vaginal approach with a omental flap.	Vaginal evisceration is generally repaired by vaginal or abdominal route. We describe two cases of vaginal evisceration using a combined laparoscopic and vaginal approach employing an omental flap.
Rectus abdominis vaginoplasty after anterior exenteration for urologic malignancy.	Vaginal resection is occasionally required in female patients who undergo anterior exenteration for invasive lower urinary tract malignancy. We have used a rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap to reconstruct the vagina and perineum after extensive local resection of bladder and urethral carcinoma.
What's new in prolapse surgery?	There are very many types of operation for the correction of symptomatic pelvic floor relaxation, and the pelvic surgeon is faced with a difficult task when selecting the most appropriate procedure(s) for an individual patient. Currently, the lifetime risk of undergoing prolapse or continence surgery in France is one in 11; up to 30% of patients will require repeat prolapse surgery, and 10% will require repeat continence surgery. Reconstructive pelvic surgery for the treatment of vaginal prolapse continues to evolve as surgeons continue their quest for a definitive surgical cure. This review looks at the etiology, presentation and current surgical management of genital prolapse in females.
Results of the tension-free vaginal tape technique in the elderly.	To assess the results of the Tension-Free Vaginal Tape (TVT) technique for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) in the elderly.
Transvaginal uterine artery ligation in a woman with uterine leiomyomas. A case report.	Uterine artery embolization by interventional radiologic techniques is an effective and widely used modality in the management of uterine leiomyomas. Anatomically, uterine arteries can be approached transvaginally with an appropriate surgical technique. In this report, we describe a novel, minimally invasive vaginal technique that also occluded the uterine arteries successfully.
Results after rectal cancer resection with in-continuity partial vaginectomy and total mesorectal excision.	Although sharp mesorectal excision reduces circumferential margin involvement and local recurrence, a concomitant partial vaginectomy may be required in women with locally advanced rectal cancer.
Outcome of tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) procedure in women with stress urinary incontinence--patients' perspective.	This was a subjective review of the success of the tension-free vaginal tape procedure in women with stress urinary incontinence. It was a retrospective study using a postal questionnaire for pre-and postoperative evaluation of symptoms. Ninety-six patients were sent the questionnaire and 71% (n=68) patients filled in the questionnaire. They were asked about pre- and postoperative symptoms. The enquiry was about their satisfaction with the procedure and its cure rate. A visual analogue scale was used to assess results at least 3 months postoperatively. Eighty-three per cent (n = 56) of patients considered their surgery to be successful and were cured without complications; 7% (n = 5) claimed partial success and 10% (n = 7) reported failure. The majority of patients found the TVT procedure to be simple and effective. Hospital stay was short. Their convalescence was short with early return to work. These observations show clear benefit to the patients' health and Health Service economy.
Dermal graft-augmented rectocele repair.	We describe a new technique in the surgical treatment of rectocele using a dermal allograft to augment site-specific fascial defect repair of the rectovaginal fascia. The posterior vaginal wall is opened and discrete defects in the rectovaginal fascia are repaired in a site-specific fashion using delayed absorbable suture. A second layer of support is created using a rectangular dermal allograft placed over the site-specific repair and secured to the normal anatomic attachments of the rectovaginal fascia using permanent sutures. The vagina is then closed and routine perineorrhaphy performed as indicated. Forty-three women with advanced posterior vaginal wall prolapse underwent dermal graft augmentation of site-specific rectocele repair over a 1-year period. No major intraoperative or postoperative complications were reported. Thirty women were available for follow-up examination at an average of 12.9 months (range 8-17). The average patient age in the follow-up group was 63.6 +/- 10.9 years (range 33-79) and average parity was 2.8 +/- 1.5 (range 0-7). Using the Pelvic Organ Prolapse Quantification score, the average measurement of point A(p) was 0.25 preoperatively and -2.4 postoperatively, whereas point B(p )was 0.9 preoperatively and -2.5 postoperatively. Using a point A(p) measurement of -0.5 or greater to define surgical failure, 28/30 (93%) of women were noted to have surgical cure on follow-up. Site-specific rectocele repair augmented with dermal allograft is associated with high cure rates and minimal complications. It recreates normal anatomic support and is easily adapted into current surgical procedures for rectocele repair.
Morbidity of vaginal hysterectomy for benign tumors as a function of uterine weight.	To evaluate the relationship between uterine weight and morbidity in women undergoing vaginal hysterectomy.
Total colpocleisis with high levator plication for the treatment of advanced pelvic organ prolapse.	Our purpose was (1). to report long-term objective and subjective outcome data after total colpocleisis with high levator plication and (2). to compare operative morbidity of total colpocleisis in patients with prior versus concurrent hysterectomy.
Tension-free vaginal tape in the management of recurrent stress incontinence.	Thirty-three patients with failed previous incontinence surgery had a Tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) inserted. Preoperative evaluation included uroflow, filing and voiding cystometry, urethral profilometry and a Q-tip test. Factors assessed postoperatively included cure, improvement or failure rates at 20.5 months follow-up, complications, and preoperative and postoperative values of a Q-tip test.
Repair of a vaginal defect with a musculocutaneous flap.	The authors present a case report dealing with a successful treatment of an infected chronic defect of vaginal region. The surgical treatment consisted in the use of a transposition of a pedicled gracilis musculocutaneous flap. The described procedure could prove useful at departments where transpositions of free flaps are not performed routinely.
Tension-free vaginal tape efficacy in relation to collagen quantity of pubocervical fascia.	To investigate whether the quantity of collagen types I and III in the pubocervical fascia of women with genuine stress incontinence (GSI) affects the efficacy of the tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) procedure.
Vaginectomy and urethroplasty as a treatment for non-pedunculated vaginal tumours in four bitches.	Vaginal tumours are uncommon in dogs. Previous reports have shown that 73 to 94 per cent of documented vaginal tumours are benign and pedunculated, often on narrow stalks. Some vaginal tumours are non-pedunculated. They grow in a concentric way either towards the vestibular area or towards the cervix. Their growth can locally affect the function of other organs. Urethral and rectal compression as well as local neurological disturbances have been described. This case series describes total and partial vaginectomy associated with urethroplasty as a treatment for non-pedunculated vaginal tumours in four dogs. These surgical procedures allowed complete resection of the tumour and were associated with low morbidity. Postoperative management and short term outcome are discussed. The final outcome was favourable; throughout the follow-up period, no local recurrence or metastasis was encountered in the animals.
Experience with a bone anchor sling for treating female stress urinary incontinence: outcome at 30 months.	To evaluate the clinical and video-urodynamic outcome in women with by stress urinary incontinence (SUI) treated with a bone-anchored pubovaginal sling.
Abdominal management of rectocele and elytrocele: place of the laparoscopic approach]	To report the results of abdominal promontory rectopexy and douglassectomy in the management of rectocele and enterocele.
Colposacrosuspension for severe genital prolapse.	A descriptive study of 140 patients with severe genital prolapse managed by colposacrosuspension with mesh interposition and a modified Burch colposuspension.
Septate uterus with cervical duplication: a full-term delivery after resection of a vaginal septum.	We report a full-term delivery after resection of a longitudinal vaginal septum in a patient with a septate uterus and cervical duplication.
Ultrasound assessment of mid-urethra tape at three-year follow-up after tension-free vaginal tape procedure.	To evaluate the anatomic changes in the polypropylene mesh sling after a tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) procedure using introital ultrasonography in a prospective study.
Incidence of pubic osteomyelitis after bladder neck suspension using bone anchors.	To determine the incidence of pubic osteomyelitis after bladder neck suspension using suprapubic bone anchors.
Sacrocervicopexy and combined operations involving cases of total uterine prolapse. Case reports.	To determine the outcome of sacrocervicopexy and combined operations in the treatment of uterovaginal prolapse in women with desire to preserving both uterus and fertility.
Experience with vaginoplasty.	We did 27 vaginoplasties (7 gracilis musculocutaneous flaps, 8 pudendal thigh flaps, 12 full-thickness skin grafts) during the period 1994-2000. The preoperative assessment and postoperative follow up were done in collaboration with the gynaecologists. All patients had vaginal agenesis. With the gracilis flaps we found it difficult to achieve an adequate blood supply. With pudendal thigh flaps we achieved perfect innervation and a good contour, but they did tend to be hairy. With full-thickness skin grafts the innervation was not perfect, but the contour was good. Having compared the three operations during a follow up period ranging from 1-5 years we think that the full-thickness skin graft gives the best results.
Anorectal malformation with congenital absence of vagina: a case report and review of the literature.	Congenital anorectal malformations are relatively common, and associated genitourinary malformations have been reported in up to 40% of patients. Uterovaginal malformations are also not rare in children. They are known to occur with increased frequency in children with anorectal malformations, but the diagnosis may still be difficult. We report herein one such case of anorectal malformation associated with congenital total absence of the vagina in which the uterovaginal malformation was not diagnosed until the operative repair of the anorectal malformation. The operative procedure was thereafter directed, along with the anorectoplasty, towards restoring a functional uterovaginal tract. Review of the literature revealed that such a diagnosis is unsuspected or delayed in more than half of affected patients. Furthermore, these patients present with many diagnostic and therapeutic problems. Our report highlights the need to be aware of this condition to allow for an earlier diagnosis and appropriate operative treatment.
Tension-free vaginal tape and laparoscopic mesh colposuspension for stress urinary incontinence.	To compare objective and subjective outcomes after the tension-free vaginal tape procedure (TVT) with laparoscopic mesh colposuspension as a primary treatment for female stress urinary incontinence. Objective outcome measures were stress test and 48-hour pad test.
Tension-free vaginal tape procedure and laparoscopic colposuspension in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence.	Within the last decade we have seen substantial development in the surgical techniques used to treat female stress urinary incontinence. The laparoscopic approach became available and even less invasive methods like the tension-free vaginal tape procedure were introduced.
Sexual function after tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) for stress incontinence: results of a mailed questionnaire.	In a retrospective study we evaluated sexual function after tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) placement for urinary stress incontinence based on responses to a mailed questionnaire at least 3 months after the operation, to a maximum of 1 year. From 1999 to 2002, a sexual function questionnaire was mailed to 128 women (and their partners) who had undergone a TVT procedure for genuine urinary stress incontinence, without pelvic organ prolapse or detrusor instability. The questionnaire was returned by 96 women (75%), 69 (72%) of whom reported being sexually active. Mean frequency of intercourse did not change. Overall, 26% described improved intercourse compared to before the operation. Only one patient described worsening of intercourse after the TVT operation because of an increase in her incontinence. Overall, in this study the technique of tension-free vaginal tape as such seems to have no negative impact on sexual function. However, because of its successful outcome on incontinence, it has a positive overall effect on sexual function. The possible causes of postoperative partner discomfort require further investigation.
Colpectomy or Le Fort colpocleisis--a good option in selected elderly patients.	The aim of this study was to describe the results of and complications after colpectomy and colpocleisis in selected elderly women with no wish for future coitus. Forty-two patients were operated by either colpectomy or colpocleisis during which special care was taken not to involve the area beneath the urethra. Patients were evaluated before and 3 months after the operation. No severe complications of the operations were observed. No cases of recurrence of the vault prolapse and no cases of de novo incontinence were observed after 3 months. A telephone interview performed after a mean of 46 months showed satisfaction with the operation in 90% of cases. Colpectomy and colpocleisis are important operations in the armamentarium of the urogynecological surgeon. The operations can be used in selected cases.
Tension free vaginal tape: is the intra-operative cough test necessary?	The tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) procedure is recognised as an effective treatment for genuine stress incontinence. It was first described using local anaesthesia, with an intra-operative cough test helping to correctly position the tape. Many patients prefer general anaesthesia and often, patients with genuine stress incontinence do not leak when supine. This aim of this study was to compare the outcome in TVTs performed under general anaesthesia with those performed under spinal anaesthesia. Retrospective analysis of 105 patients, all of whom had urodynamically proven genuine stress incontinence and underwent TVT procedure, was performed: 52 under spinal anaesthesia and 53 under general anaesthesia. The primary and secondary outcome measures were the success or failure of the procedure and the complication rate, respectively. There was no significant difference in outcome or complication rate between the two groups. The type of anaesthetic used does not influence the outcome and we question the necessity of an intra-operative cough test.
The clinical and urodynamic effects of the tension free bladder neck sling procedure.	This study evaluated the clinical and urodynamic findings before and after tension-free bladder neck sling (TBS) procedure with Prolene tape. We enrolled 32 women who underwent TBS for genuine stress incontinence without intrinsic sphincter deficiency or severe uterovaginal prolapse. All subjects received 1-h pad test, Q-tip test, multichannel urodynamic testing, introital ultrasonography, and the Bristol Female Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms Questionnaires before and 1 year after surgery. Of the 32 subjects 27 were cured of stress incontinence, two improved, and three failed. The incidence of irritative symptoms and incomplete bladder emptying were significantly lower after surgery. The mean urethral straining angle showed a significant decrease from 73.8 degrees preoperatively to 30.1 degrees postoperatively. At rest the postsurgical position of the bladder neck (BN) was localized more cranially. During straining both ventral and caudal mobility of the BN decreased significantly following TBS, causing a more cranial and dorsal position of the BN. Urodynamic parameters including functional urethral length, maximal urethral closure pressure, and pressure transmission ratio showed significant increases after surgery. TBS could decrease the hypermobility of the BN and restore the BN support to prevent urinary leakage during straining, instead of urethral obstruction. The subjective and objective cure rate of stress incontinence is 84%, similar to those results reported after retropubic urethropexy and tension-free vaginal tape procedure. It is also worth emphasizing that no postoperative urinary retention occurred, although the limited number of cases makes it hard to confirm the significance of findings over the retention rate of tension-free vaginal tape.
Transurethral resection of transvaginal tape.	Urethral erosion is an uncommon complication after tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) procedure. However, management is a challenge and morbidity significant because of the necessity to incise the urethra to gain access to the material. This is a report of a case of transurethral resection of such mesh. A 77-year-old women presented at 7 months postoperatively with complaints of incomplete emptying and persistent incontinence. Urodynamic testing and cystoscopy revealed intrinsic sphincter deficiency, an elevated post void residual and erosion of the TVT tape into the urethral lumen. The tape was removed without any incisions via an operative cystoscope and hysteroscopic scissors. All urinary symptoms resolved. Partial urethral transection can be managed successfully with transurethral resection of the material. This diagnosis should be considered in patients with incomplete emptying and recurrent incontinence.
Groin pain after a tension-free vaginal tape or similar suburethral sling: management strategies.	To review different treatment strategies for women with groin pain after tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) or similar suburethral sling procedures.
Novel modification of the vertical rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap for neovagina creation.	We describe a modification of the traditional vertical rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap for neovagina creation and our experience to date.
Vaginal wall sling: four years later.	Since December 1985, we have treated 65 patients with urinary stress incontinence due to intrinsic sphincter dysfunction with the vaginal wall sling procedure. Of the 54 patients who were available for follow-up, intrinsic sphincter dysfunction was related to multiple prior bladder neck suspension procedures in 48 patients. In the remaining 6 patients, 2 had pelvic trauma, 2 had neurogenic urethral dysfunction, 1 had urethral diverticulectomy, and 1 had pelvic radiation. The success rate of the vaginal wall sling procedure for correcting stress incontinence was 94.4 percent at a mean follow-up of 23.9 months. Postoperative complications were minimal. Although 83 percent were temporarily in urinary retention, in the absence of neurogenic bladder and augmentation cystoplasty, only 5.5 percent needed intermittent self-catheterization on a long-term basis. De novo detrusor instability developed postoperatively in 14.8 percent of the cases. In no patient did a vaginal inclusion cyst develop. The vaginal wall sling is a simple procedure with excellent success rate and minimal morbidity. We recommend it for patients with stress urinary incontinence due to intrinsic sphincter dysfunction.
Risk factors for failure of transvaginal sacrospinous uterine suspension in the treatment of uterovaginal prolapse.	The purpose of this study was to elucidate the risk factors for failure of transvaginal sacrospinous uterine suspension (SSUS) in the treatment of uterine prolapse and to examine methods for controlling these risk factors.
Tension-free vaginal tape procedure with manual-tapping method: a potentially useful technique.	Stress urinary incontinence (SUI) is accompanied by pelvic organ prolapse (POP) in many cases. We investigate a procedure to adjust the level of suspension of the mid-urethra using tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) under general anesthesia at the time of POP repair surgery.
Formation of a vagina at the time of exenteration.	The formation of an artificial vagina at the time of exenteration has been described. Femoral gluteal flaps forming a tube suspended to the iliopectineal ligament appeared to give the most satisfactory results.
Morbidity of incontinence surgery in women over 70 years old: a retrospective cohort study.	To compare the success rate and complications after colposuspension and tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) insertion in women aged 70 years or more compared with younger women.
Intra-operative introital ultrasound in Burch colposuspension reduces post-operative complications.	To determine the effect of intra-operative monitoring of bladder neck elevation on cure rate and post-operative complications in patients undergoing colposuspension.
Pubovaginal sling versus transurethral Macroplastique for stress urinary incontinence and intrinsic sphincter deficiency: a prospective randomised controlled trial.	To compare the pubovaginal sling and transurethral Macroplastique in the treatment of female stress urinary incontinence (SUI) and intrinsic sphincter deficiency (ISD).
Digital recording of surgical procedures using a personal computer.	To develop a system for recording surgical procedure digitally using a personal computer with real-time compression of the video signal.
Indications, techniques, and advantages of partial laser vaginectomy.	Partial vaginectomy is seldom used diagnostically to evaluate vaginal neoplasia because of its technical difficulty, the possible need for grafting, and postoperative vaginal agglutination or stenosis. We found that use of the carbon dioxide laser simplified vaginectomy in ten subjects, producing a low rate of complications, an excellent diagnostic specimen, and superior healing.
Obstruction after Burch colposuspension: a return to retropubic urethrolysis.	We compare our postoperative outcomes of a vaginal vs abdominal urethrolysis after an obstructed Burch colposuspension. We performed a retrospective review of all women who had undergone a Burch urethrolysis from 1997 through 2003. Data collected included pelvic examination, cystoscopic and urodynamic findings, surgical morbidity, and pre- and postoperative urogynecologic symptomatology. Sixteen women underwent Burch urethrolysis. Preoperative symptoms were obstructive in 6, overactive in 2, and both (obstructive/overactive) in 8. All had an acute retropubic angulation of the urethral axis as well as a retropexed urethra that prohibited sagittal rotation of a rigid cystoscope. Seventy-eight percent of the women with urodynamic information met urodynamic criteria for urethral obstruction. Average follow-up was 7 months, and of those undergoing a vaginal urethrolysis, three out of seven (43%) had resolution of their obstructive or overactive symptoms postoperatively. In contrast, seven out of nine women (78%) who underwent a retropubic urethrolysis had relief of their obstructive or overactive bladder symptoms. In our cohort study, an abdominal retropubic urethrolysis was more successful in relieving urethral obstruction than a vaginal urethrolysis.
Management of ureteral injuries associated with vaginal surgery for pelvic organ prolapse.	Due to the anatomic proximity of the urinary and genital tracts, iatrogenic ureteral injury during pelvic organ prolapse repairs is a serious complication that we have managed in increasing number at our institution. However, few centers have reported on their experience with ureteric injuries associated with gynecologic reconstructive surgery. These ureteral injuries may lead to much morbidity, in particular the formation of ureterovaginal fistula, and the potential loss of renal function especially when diagnosed postoperatively. It is necessary, therefore, for surgeons to have a thorough knowledge of ureteral anatomy and to take precautions to prevent such injuries. The purpose of this article is to review this pertinent anatomy and the key principles of management of ureteric complications of transvaginal surgery for pelvic organ prolapse. The present study illustrates the application of our treatment algorithm based on the time of presentation and the patient condition.
Neural pain after uterosacral ligament vaginal suspension.	Neural compromise has been reported after a wide variety of reconstructive pelvic procedures. We report on two women who had undergone a seemingly uncomplicated transvaginal uterosacral suspension for the treatment of pelvic organ prolapse. Both women presented shortly after surgery with a unilateral, shooting groin pain with radiation along the ipsilateral lumbosacral nerve distribution. Surgical removal of the permanent stitch and physical therapy provided prompt and near-complete relief. This case report describes the possibility of neural compromise after uterosacral ligament suspension.
Use of etilefrin as local vasoconstrictor in lower gynecologic surgery ]	In this randomized prospective study the authors have compared the effectiveness and side-effects of two local vasoconstrictor agents, etilefrine (Effortil) and ornithine 8 vasopressin (Por 8) in vaginal gynaecological surgery. Thirty-three patients entered the trial and were divided into two groups: G1 (15 patients) received Effortil, and G2 (18 patients) received Por 8. The products, administered at random, were diluted in saline 40 ml and injected into the cervix through 6 points. A 3-minute interval was allowed between injection and incision. The results were assessed on the basis of trans- and postoperative haemorrhage and haemodynamic variations. Palor of the cervix was achieved after 3 minutes in both groups; moderate bleeding was observed in only one of the G1 patients. Postoperative renewal of packing was necessary in 2 patients in G1 and 4 patients in G2. No electrocardiographic anomaly was recorded in any of the two groups. Diastolic BP was significantly higher in G2 than in G1 (P less than 0.002, Fisher test). Systolic BP was also elevated in that group (P less than 0.03, chi 2 test). Moderate reduction in heart rate was observed in both groups (P less than 0.3, Fischer test), but severe (48 beats/min) bradycardia was noted in one G2 patient.
A prospective study on whether a tension-free urethropexy procedure affects the residual urine and flow up to 4 years after the operation.	Sling procedures performed for urinary stress incontinence can be complicated by urinary retention and flow problems. The aim of this study was to evaluate the flow and the residual urine before and after a tension-free vaginal urethropexy procedure performed for stress urinary incontinence.
Short- and long-term results of the tension-free vaginal tape procedure in the treatment of female urinary incontinence.	The aim was to describe the short- and long-term results of treatment for urinary incontinence (UI) in women using the tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) procedure at a single unit and to identify factors predictive of successful outcome.
Vaginal reconstruction after anterior pelvectomy by deep inferior epigastric perforator flap (DIEP)]	Muscle sparing technique is one of the latest improvements of rectus abdominis flaps harvesting. It minimizes donor site morbidity by preserving the abdominal wall. The deep inferior epigastric perforator flap (DIEP) provides reliable tissues for vaginal reconstruction with local low morbidity. We describe the surgical technique and flap-related specific complications. This technique is safe and useful in the vaginal reconstruction especially following a radiotherapy.
Gluteal fold V-Y advancement flap for vulvar and vaginal reconstruction: a new flap.	Soft-tissue reconstruction following vulvar cancer resection is a difficult challenge because of the functional, locational, and cosmetic importance of this region. Although numerous flaps have been designed for vulvar reconstruction, each has its disadvantages.
A randomized controlled equivalence trial of short-term complications and efficacy of tension-free vaginal tape and suprapubic urethral support sling for treating stress incontinence.	To establish the equivalence between the tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) and the suprapubic urethral support sling (SPARC). Approximately 35% of women have stress urinary incontinence (SUI), and although TVT is now perceived as the standard treatment, the SPARC is a very similar procedure and is thought to have fewer peri-operative complications.
Uterosacral ligament vault suspension: five-year outcomes.	To evaluate the five-year anatomic and functional outcomes of the high uterosacral vaginal vault suspension.
Clinical trial of rectocele repair with longitudinal incision and transverse suture on the vaginal posterior wall]	To investigate the clinical efficacy of rectocele repair with longitudinal incision and transverse suture on the vaginal posterior wall.
Laparoscopic ventral recto(colpo)pexy for rectal prolapse: surgical technique and outcome for 109 patients.	The authors propose a new laparoscopic technique for correction of rectal prolapse. The unique feature of this technique is that it avoids any posterolateral dissection of the rectum. The mesh is sutured to the anterior aspect of the rectum to inhibit intussusception. The technique was applied in 109 consecutive patients to correct total rectal prolapse. Conversion was needed for four patients. No postoperative mortality or major morbidity occurred. Minor morbidity was noted for 7% of the patients, and a recurrence rate of 3.66% was observed. Because this technique limited the dissection and the subsequent risk of autonomic nerve damage, a cure comparable with that resulting from classical mesh rectopexy can be anticipated.
Analysis of outcomes of single polypropylene mesh in total pelvic floor reconstruction.	A 2.5-year outcome analysis was performed on patients who underwent transvaginal repair of total pelvic organ prolapse with single polypropylene mesh. A description of the repair technique using a tension-free 4-point fixation is also reviewed.
Comparison of recurrence rates after anterior colporrhaphy for cystocele using three different surgical techniques.	To compare the recurrence rates after anterior colporrhaphy for cystocele using three different surgical techniques: standard plicating, purse-string, and rolling anterior colporrhaphy.
Vaginal reconstruction with a greater omentum-pedicled graft combined with a vicryl mesh after anterior pelvic exenteration. Surgical approach with long-term follow-up.	Resection of anterior vaginal wall that occurs with some cases of anterior pelvic exenteration leaves the patient with a small and narrow vagina. This affects their sexual life leading to major psychologic problems, especially in young women. The aim of this study is to evaluate a new technique of vaginal reconstruction following anterior pelvic exenteration with clinical and cytohistologic follow-up. Between March 2002 and November 2004, ten sexually active female patients underwent vaginal reconstruction after radical cystectomy that required en bloc removal of the anterior vaginal wall, with a pedicle graft of greater omentum combined with a vicryl mesh. The mean age of the patients was 38 years. The mean operative time of the reconstructive procedure was 50 min. There were no complications regarding the reconstructive procedure. On follow-up, the neovagina accepted two fingers easily and showed a pink-colored smooth lining. Seven patients reported successful attempts of sexual intercourse. It was concluded that reconstruction of vagina after anterior pelvic exenteration in sexually active women can be done safely with the use of vicryl mesh combined with a pedicled omental graft. It is a simple, reliable, and not time-consuming technique. The long-term follow-up was very beneficial in detection of complete healing, postoperative infections, and hormonal activity of the graft and recurrence of malignancy.
Contemporary views on perioperative complications and adhaesion formation after vaginal hysterectomy, in relation to peritoneal closure vs. non-closure in combination with open vs. closed vaginal cuff]	There exists few evidence about peritoneal closure vs. non-closure at vaginal hysterectomy as well as only scanty evidence for open vs. sutured vaginal cuff. It seems that non-closure of the peritoneum at vaginal hysterectomy holds no risks and probably some advantages, e.g. faster resumption of bowel function. In the light of the rare direct evidence from vaginal surgery and the strong evidence from cesarean section and abdominal hysterectomy, we recommend abandoning the routine closure of the peritoneum at vaginal hysterectomy. The vaginal cuff left open is probably also a safe procedure, if the hemostasis has been done carefully. The most promising modification of the vaginal incision-and-closure seems to be the "Benenden-Hospital technique" (V-shaped posterior incision and running longitudinal closure of the vaginal skin with partially non-sutured peritoneum).
Comparison of different biomaterials for vaginal surgery using an in vivo model of meshes infection in rats]	The purpose of this study was to develop an animal model of prosthetic infection and compare in vivo bacterial infectiosity of different biomaterials used in vaginal surgery.
Micturition and incidence of postoperative urinary tract infections in surgical gynecology]	In a retrospective analysis postoperative courses of 879 patients (1987-1989) have been analysed with respect to micturition behaviour and incidence of postoperative urinary tract infections. 58.5 per cent urinary tracts infections could be registered following uro-gynecology operations and 48.9 per cent after radical hysterectomies according to Wertheim-Held. The lowest rate of 15.9 per cent we found after simple interventions at the adnexas. Within the uro-gynecological operations vaginal plastic procedures had a higher rate (66.4 per cent) than colposuspensions with 41.5 per cent. Because of the different extent of the bladder preparation there were distinct differences with regard to first spontaneous micturition and lack of residual urine.
Cost-minimisation analysis of vaginal wall repair in an inpatient or outpatient regimen.	The study's objective was to compare the cost of vaginal wall repair under local anesthesia, undertaken in either an inpatient or an outpatient regimen. The perspective used was that of a department of gynecology over the short and medium term.
Repair of episiotomies with synthetic suture material]	The aim of the current study is to investigate possibilities for episiorrhaphy with synthetic sutures and patients follow up for complains and physical status.
Current considerations in the management of rectovaginal fistula from Crohn's disease.	Rectovaginal fistulas are dreaded complications of Crohn's disease. Accurate assessment is essential for planning management. Treatment options range from observation to medical therapeutics to the need for surgical intervention. Ultimately, establishing reasonable expectations is mandatory when treatment algorithms are considered. In this article, we review the evaluation of these fistulas and the current options to consider in the treatment of Crohn's related rectovaginal fistula.
Robotic radical parametrectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy in patients with invasive cervical cancer.	We describe a series of patients diagnosed with invasive cervical cancer after undergoing simple hysterectomy who subsequently underwent robotic radical parametrectomy and bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy. The goal of this study is to report on the safety and feasibility of robotic radical parametrectomy.
Dynamic interaction involved in the tension-free vaginal tape obturator procedure.	We explored the static and dynamic morphological characteristics of the tension-free vaginal tape obturator procedure by ultrasound cystourethrography.
Normal preoperative urodynamic testing does not predict voiding dysfunction after Burch colposuspension versus pubovaginal sling.	Urodynamic studies have been proposed as a means of identifying patients at risk for voiding dysfunction after surgery for stress urinary incontinence. We determined if preoperative urodynamic findings predict postoperative voiding dysfunction after pubovaginal sling or Burch colposuspension.
Detubularized pedicled vaginal onlay flap urethroplasty: a new method for hypospadias repair of ambiguous genitalia.	We introduce the detubularized pedicled vaginal onlay flap urethroplasty for single stage repair in ambiguous genitalia with perineoscrotal hypospadias and accompanying vagina, and report its preliminary surgical outcome.
NOTES hybrid transvaginal radical nephrectomy for tumor: stepwise progression toward a first successful clinical case.	Natural orifice translumenal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) has been used to perform nephrectomy in the laboratory; however, clinical reports to date have used multiple abdominal trocars to assist the transvaginal procedure.
Radical cystectomy (anterior exenteration) in the female patient.	Anterior exenteration in the female patient can be performed accurately with a disciplined anatomic approach. The lymphadenectomy provides staging for the carcinoma. Excision of the uterus, a portion of the vagina, and the urethra reduces the potential for pelvic recurrence. Vaginal reconstruction and continent urinary diversion provide a better quality of life with maintenance of sexual function and urinary continence.
Full-thickness skin graft vaginoplasty for treatment of the stenotic or foreshortened vagina.	Vaginal stenosis or foreshortening following surgery or radiation therapy can lead to dyspareunia. This report concerns the successful use of full-thickness skin grafts taken from the flank overlying the iliac crest to treat vaginal stenosis or foreshortening. The operation consists of incising the involved area and creating a space which will become the recipient site. An elliptical piece of full-thickness skin harvested from the area overlying the iliac crest is cleared of underlying fat, trimmed to fit the recipient site, and sutured in place. Vaginal packing is used to keep the graft against the recipient bed. Ten patients have been treated successfully with this technique, without significant complications or sequelae. Follow-up from 6 weeks to 42 months showed excellent postsurgical vaginal capacity in all patients. Similarly, excellent functional results were achieved in eight patients, with distinct improvement in the remaining two. This procedure is a useful addition to the gynecologic surgeon's armamentarium.
Advanced rectal cancer in the female: reduction of pelvic recurrence by rectal resection en bloc with hysterectomy and/or posterior vaginal wall excision.	The authors report their experience with 20 female patients with advanced rectal cancer in whom rectal excision was combined with concomitant excision of the uterus and/or posterior vaginal wall. Six patients presented with a malignant fistula between the rectum and the genital tract; 10 had pre-operative radiotherapy, with a total dose of 50 Gy in seven patients and 30 Gy in three. The resection was judged as radical in 18 patients; the specimen was staged as a Dukes' B in eight and a Dukes' C in 10 cases. Three patients died within the follow-up period, due to intercurrent disease, without evidence of recurrence. Seven patients have been followed without evidence of disease for an average of 91 months (range 39-143 months). One patient is alive 5 years after surgery with a pelvic recurrence. Seven patients succumbed to distant metastases alone (n = 4) or to a combination of haematogenous metastases and pelvic recurrence (n = 3). The authors make a plea for local radicality in advanced rectal cancer in female patients, to preserve quality of life in most patients and a cure in some.
Vaginal epithelial abnormalities in patients with CIN: clinical and pathological features and management.	Of 4147 women who had CIN treated by laser at the Regional Gynaecological Oncology Centre, Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Gateshead, 103 (2.5%) had co-existing vaginal epithelial abnormalities. CIN 3 was the histological diagnosis most often associated with vaginal lesions. The upper vagina was almost always involved. In 67% the lesion in the cervix appeared to be confluent with that in the vagina. Even when the lesions were confluent, biopsies form the cervical and vaginal components did not always show the same grade of intraepithelial neoplasia and in some biopsies they showed different lesions. Laser treatment appears to be effective for the vaginal lesions and is therefore recommended although, in selected patients, careful follow up alone may suffice.
Symptom analysis of patients undergoing modified Pereyra bladder neck suspension for stress urinary incontinence. Pre- and postoperative findings.	The results of a physician-directed follow-up of 145 women undergoing the modified Pereyra bladder neck suspension from March 1980 to February 1986 are presented. Median follow-up was 3.5 years (2.0-7.7); 70 percent of patients had follow-up between three and four years postoperatively. All patients had preoperative demonstration of stress incontinence as well as urodynamic evaluation. Fifty-one percent of patients reported no stress incontinence and 76 percent reported that their sense of urinary control was better, or much better at the time of follow-up. Improvement was seen in all grades of stress incontinence. Age, weight, parity, and history of prior anti-incontinence surgery had no significant impact on success rates. Although preoperative urgency symptoms were more common among failure (28% vs 15%), this association was not statistically significant. However, persistent or de novo urgency symptoms postoperatively were highly associated with postoperative incontinence (p less than 0.005). The onset of recurrent incontinence was experienced more than two years postoperatively in 23 percent of the incontinent group.
Perioperative and long-term complications among obese women undergoing vaginal surgery.	To determine whether obesity influenced the risk of perioperative and long-term complications in patients undergoing vaginal surgery.
Posterior colporrhaphy and perineorrhaphy: separate and distinct operations.	Posterior vaginal repair is often poorly understood and ineffectively performed. The goals of reconstructive surgery emphasize relief of symptoms and restoration of normal anatomic relationships and of function. A useful method to preoperatively determine posterior vaginal wall weakness is outlined along with a surgical description of important steps in surgical reconstruction.
Uterine retroversion for vaginoperineal reconstruction following resection of distal rectal tumors.	Vaginal and perineal reconstruction following wide resection of locally invasive rectal cancer can be challenging. Various techniques have been reported, all of which contribute the additional morbidity inherent in tissue procurement. We present a technique applicable to nonhysterectomized patients who undergo posterior vaginal wall reconstruction with retroversion of the in situ uterus.
Patient-reported outcomes and sexual function in vaginal reconstruction: a 17-year review, survey, and review of the literature.	There are multiple techniques used to reconstruct the vagina after oncologic extirpation. However, the long-term functional results of vaginal reconstruction are not well appreciated.A review was conducted of all 27 consecutive patients undergoing vaginal reconstruction from 1990 to 2007. A modified Sexual Adjustment Questionnaire was mailed to patients. Also, a review of all published studies of myocutaneous vaginal reconstructions with postoperative sexual function was performed.Patients underwent vertical rectus abdominis myocutaneous flap (18), gracilis (4), pudendal artery fasciocutaneous flaps (3), or rectus and peritoneum flaps (2). Of 27 patients, 14 (52%) had postoperative complications. Of 12 patients, 6 (50%) reported sexual function. This compares with an overall 52.3% return to sexual function reported in 8 studies of myocutaneous vaginal reconstruction.Vaginal reconstruction yielding sexual function remains a challenge to the reconstructive surgeon. Preoperative education of the patient about sexual function is of paramount importance.
Abdominal-retroperitoneal sacral colpopexy for the correction of vaginal prolapse.	Complete genital or vaginal prolapse affects a large number of middle-aged to elderly females. Satisfactory correction of prolapse with maintenance of vaginal patency has been a challenge to the pelvic surgeon for many years. We present a retrospective review of 147 patients undergoing abdominal sacral colpopexy using dacron graft or expanded polytetrafluoroethylene. The anatomical basis of repair, operative technique, and results are described. Ninety-three percent of the patients experienced long-term success over 5 years, including those with previous failed repairs. Both short- and long-term complication rates were acceptable. Only four patients experienced graft erosion, and only one of those had recurrent prolapse. Abdominal sacral colpopexy offers those affected with genital prolapse an opportunity for long-term relief, with maintenance of a patent vagina.
Pubovaginal fascial sling for the treatment of complicated stress urinary incontinence.	We reviewed retrospectively 67 consecutive women with complicated stress incontinence who underwent a pubovaginal fascial sling procedure by a single surgeon. A detailed micturition questionnaire was completed at the last followup, which ranged from 1 to 8 years, with a mean of 3.5 years. Postoperatively, 82% of the women claimed that they were never incontinent and never wore pads, while 9% were incontinent less often than once per 2 weeks and 9% 9% continued to have troublesome incontinence on a daily basis. Only 2 of these women had persistent stress incontinence; the remainder (5) had urge incontinence. In 6 patients with a neurogenic bladder postoperative urinary retention was expected and they were treated with intermittent self-catheterization. Two patients had urethral obstruction by the sling and required prolonged (probably permanent) intermittent self-catheterization.
Ventral approach to the pelvic canal in the female dog.	A ventral approach to the pelvic canal by bilateral pubic and ischial osteotomy was performed in five female dogs. The entire urogenital tract could be exposed and easily manipulated through this approach. All animals were ambulatory within 24 hours. Clinical union had formed in three of the four osteotomies by the time of euthanasia (months 2-4) in all animals. Incomplete union in some osteotomies indicated that exercise should be restricted for at least 4 months after the procedure. The procedure was determined to be clinically useful when wide exposure of the entire female urogenital tract is desired.
94months follow-up after laparoscopic assisted vaginal resection of septum rectovaginale and rectosigmoid in women with deep infiltrating endometriosis.	Endometriosis with bowel involvement is the most invasive form and can cause infertility, chronic pelvic pain and bowel symptoms. Effective surgical treatment of endometriosis requires complete excision of endometriosis and in same case may require segmental rectosigmoid resection.
Abdominal sacrocolpopexy--standardized surgical technique, perioperative management and outcome in women with posthysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse.	To provide a detailed description of abdominal sacrocolpopexy and to present a retrospective evaluation of the outcomes.
Long-term review on posterior colporrhaphy with levator ani muscles plication and incorporating a Vypro II mesh]	Pelvic organ prolapse affect 50% of parous women over 50 years of age. The lifetime risk of undergoing a single operation for prolapse or incontinence by age 80 is 11.1%. Recurrence rates for classical prolapse surgery are as high as 30%. For this reason various graft materials have been proposed to improve the long-term surgical outcomes. The aim of our study was to investigate the safety and efficacy of posterior colporrhaphy incorporating Vypro II (polyglactin 910-polypropylene) mesh in the treatment of posterior vaginal wall prolapse.
Delayed presentation of complete ureteral obstruction deligated transvaginally.	Complete ureteral obstruction with delayed presentation is managed first by percutaneous nephrostomy and later with ureteral deligation, reimplantation, and stenting. Transvaginal deligation of complete obstruction after delayed presentation has not been described. We present two cases of ureteral ligation after pelvic reconstructive surgery. The first patient underwent high uterosacral ligament vaginal vault suspension then presented on postoperative day22. The second patient underwent anterior colporrhaphy and presented on postoperative day6. Both patients had flank pain, elevated creatinine, and signs of complete obstruction on CT scan. They both underwent transvaginal ureterolysis, retrograde stent placement, and later removal without any sequelae. Transvaginal ureterolysis of complete obstruction after delayed presentation is better tolerated and less morbid than traditional management.
Vaginal cuff closure: a comparison between the vaginal route and laparoscopic suture in patients undergoing total laparoscopic hysterectomy.	To compare the vaginal route and laparoscopic suture for vaginal cuff closure (VCC) in patients undergoing a total laparoscopic hysterectomy (TLH).
Therapeutic strategy for persistent cloaca: the efficacy of antegrade continent enema as a salvage surgery.	The aim of this study is to evaluate our therapeutic strategy for persistent cloaca from the viewpoint of long-term functional outcome.
Extrasphincteric perianal fistulae after sacrospinous fixation for apical prolapse.	Delayed extrasphincteric perianal fistulae may be encountered after sacrospinous vaginal vault suspension or hysteropexy with permanent sutures.
The success of 6-hour hospital discharge on patients having vaginal repair operations using a new conscious sedation technique.	Anterior and posterior repair are standard surgical techniques for treatment of vaginal prolapse. These procedures are performed traditionally under general anaesthetic or spinal anaesthetic and usually require overnight admission in the hospital. We describe our case series of 40 patients who underwent anterior (18/40), posterior (20/40) or combined repair (2/40) under local anaesthetic and conscious sedation (Remifentanyl). The majority (35/40) were performed in the day-case surgery unit and 95% patients were discharged within 6 hours of the operation, with no complications. All the patients were satisfied with the anaesthetic technique. We concluded that our technique of vaginal repair avoids the risk of general and spinal anaesthetic. The majority of operations can be performed as day cases with good patient satisfaction and without increasing risks to the patients. This technique has potential significant financial saving for the hospitals.
Feasibility of transvaginal natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery-assisted living donor nephrectomy: is kidney vaginal delivery the approach of the future?	Natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery (NOTES) uses natural orifices to access the abdominal cavity. We adapted NOTES to perform transvaginal NOTES-assisted laparoscopic nephrectomy in living donors.
Small bowel obstruction resulting from laparoscopic vaginal cuff closure with a barbed suture.	Surgical trends favor the minimally invasive approach for gynecologic procedures. Technology, equipment, and surgical materials have evolved to simplify technically challenging skills and decrease operative times to permit successful completion of procedures via the laparoscopic approach. However, with the introduction of new advances, surgeons must also be aware of potential complications that may arise. A barbed suture is an attractive suture option that allows for easier and faster laparoscopic suturing by eliminating repeated knots and the need to maintain tension on the suture line. Here we present the case of a small bowel obstruction caused by barbed suture used for vaginal cuff closure at the time of total laparoscopic hysterectomy. Implementation of a new technology or surgical material in laparoscopy to improve care must be optimized to prevent untoward events in our patients.
Impact of colpocleisis on body image in women with severe pelvic organ prolapse]	To investigate the impact of colpocleisis on body image in women with severe pelvic organ prolapse (POP).
Surgical treatment of the perianal and rectovaginal fistulas by means of Surgisis AFP anal fistula plug]	Symptoms of painful and uncomfortably occurred in patients with anal and rectovaginal fistulas witch worsened their quality of life. The introduce of Biodesign Fistula Plug is called "dramatic jump in surgery of the fistulas". We can avoid from the traditionally and technicaly difficult treatment of perianal and rectovaginal fistulas through this advice. Therefore like this surgeons can avert frequently complications of the anal sphyncteric apparatus like incontinence or stenosis. We have only two cases like attempt for now but with excellent result followed up about 31 and 33 months.
The effect of posterior colporrhaphy on anorectal function.	The objective of this study is to determine the effect of posterior colporrhaphy on bowel symptoms.
Anorectal symptoms before and after laparoscopic sacrocolpoperineopexy for pelvic organ prolapse.	To evaluate changes in anorectal symptoms before and after pelvic organ prolapse (POP) surgery, using laparoscopic sacrocolpoperineopexy.
Vaginal repair of supratrigonal vesicovaginal fistulae--a 10-year review.	A 10-year retrospective study was done to determine the outcome of vaginal repair for supratrigonal vesicovaginal fistulae (VVF).
Persistent pelvic pain following transvaginal mesh surgery: a cause for mesh removal.	Persistent pelvic pain after vaginal mesh surgery is an uncommon but serious complication that greatly affects women's quality of life. Our aim was to evaluate various procedures for mesh removal performed at a tertiary referral center in cases of persistent pelvic pain, and to evaluate the ensuing complications and outcomes.
Bladder polyps following Avaulta anterior mesh vaginal wall repair.	We present the case of a postmenopausal woman who developed bladder polyps leading to serious abdominal pain, dysuria with mucus and blood, and urinary incontinence after anterior vaginal wall repair using Avaulta anterior mesh (Bard). All of these symptoms resolved after mesh removal. This case emphasizes that not all complications of mesh are known.
Preliminary study of fetal head engagement diagnosis by transperineal ultrasound before operative vaginal delivery]	Estimate the predictive value of perineum-fetal head distance obtained by transperineal ultrasound on results of an operative vaginal delivery.
Vaginal incisional wound healing in a rabbit menopause model: a histologic analysis.	INTODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: The vaginal wound healing process is a major determinant of surgical outcome following pelvic reconstructive surgery. Since the majority of these surgeries are performed in peri- and postmenopausal women, it is essential to understand how estrogen deficiency affects this process. We aimed to histologically evaluate the vaginal incisional wound healing process in a rabbit menopause model.
Sensory neuropathy following suspension of the vaginal apex to the proximal uterosacral ligaments.	Reports of sensory neuropathy attributed to uterosacral ligament suspension (USLS) have emerged. The objectives of this study were to assess the rate of sensory neuropathy symptoms following transvaginal USLS at a single institution during a 5-year period and to describe the evaluation, management, and outcomes in these patients.
Inside out transobturator vaginal tape versus tention-free vaginal tape for primary female stress urinary incontinence: meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials.	Inside out transobturator vaginal tape (TVT-O) and tension-free vaginal tape (TVT) are predominant surgical treatments for female stress urinary incontinence. This meta-analysis evaluated the complications and cure rates of TVT-O versus TVT.
Complications of mesh-vaginopexy: results of a multicenter trial]	A retrospective multicenter trial with participation of 7 large clinics of Moscow and Moscow Region has been performed to characterize complications after correction of genital prolapse with application of the PROLIFT system. The trial enrolled women with uterine and vaginal prolapse of stage II-IV by POP-Q classification. The women also had anatomic and functional defects of the adjacent organs. From January 2005 to March 2008 all the patients have undergone vaginal extraperitoneal colpopexy using Prolift system. The results of the trial showed that extraperitoneal colpopexy with application of the Prolift system should not be considered as a low-invasive intervention and therefore it is not valid to use this technique as a routine method of genital prolapse treatment as in 29.5% cases the operation is accompanied with complications of different severity.
Perineal and vaginal wall reconstruction using a combined inferior gluteal and pudendal artery perforator flap: a case report.	Reliable perineal and posterior vaginal wall restoration following extensive abdominoperineal excision or pelvic exenteration is a reconstructive challenge, especially if the rectus abdominis is unavailable or insufficient for transpelvic transposition. In this short report, we present a novel combined perforator-based technique, in which an inferior gluteal perforator flap is used for perineal reconstruction whereas vaginal reconstruction is performed simultaneously by means of a pudendal artery perforator flap. This procedure circumvents functional muscle loss, permits a tension-free closure of difficult three-dimensional defects and offers a high degree of reconstructive flexibility, which allows a straightforward and independent reconstruction of two different anatomical units.
Complications of synthetic slings used in female stress urinary incontinence and applicability of the new IUGA-ICS classification.	To analyze different complications of synthetic suburethral slings, and to apply the new "IUGA-ICS classification of complications directly related to the insertion of prosthesis (meshes, implants, tapes) and grafts in female pelvic floor surgery" to the list of complications, check its applicability, and give suggestions regarding possible improvements.
Obliterative vaginal surgery for genital prolapse: a retrospective cases series]	Treatments of pelvic organ prolapse are pelvic floor rehabilitation, surgery by abdominal or vaginal route, with or without prosthesis, and pessaries. Since last decade, increasing elderly patients seen for pelvic organ prolapse require to redefine the place of the obliterative vaginal surgery, among the existent surgical procedures. Our objectives were to describe the morbidity associated with colpocleisis, to determine the anatomical results of colpocleisis, and patient's satisfaction.
Pure transvaginal ventral hernia repair in humans.	Transvaginal natural orifice transluminal endoscopic surgery procedures are at the forefront of minimally invasive innovation, remarkable for shorter recovery times and decreased postoperative pain. We aim to demonstrate a novel technique of pure transvaginal laparoscopic ventral hernia repair in a series of patients performed in our institution.
Surgical repair of rectovaginal fistulas in patients with Crohn's disease.	To report surgical outcomes of patients who underwent rectovaginal fistula (RVF) repair with a history of Crohn's disease utilizing several reconstructive techniques.
Monti's principle in the treatment of congenital uterovesical fistula.	Congenital uterovesical fistula is rare and generally associated with genital tract abnormalities derived from mullerian ducts or urogenital sinus. Management is usually challenging, and it involves vaginal reconstruction. A 15-year-old female patient presented with a 2-year history of cyclical hematuria. Investigation revealed a bicornuate uterus and complete vaginal agenesis associated with congenital uterovesical fistula. The fistula was repaired, and a neovagina was created using Monti's technique. Postoperative recovery was uneventful with normal voiding and initiation of regular menstruation through the neovagina. We discuss the options of vaginal reconstruction and stress the advantages of the technique used in this case. 
Autologous buccal mucosa graft for repair of recurrent rectovaginal fistula.	Post-operative pediatric rectovaginal fistulas are rare, can be challenging to repair, and often recur. The versatility, ease of accessibility, vascularization, and likeness to native vaginal tissues make autologous buccal mucosal grafts a novel tissue substitute for the repair of a recurrent rectovaginal fistula after the surgical repair of anorectal malformations. 
Quality of life and sexual function of patients following radical hysterectomy and vaginal extension.	Radical hysterectomy (RH) has negative consequences on sexual function due to a shortened vagina, vaginal dryness, and dyspareunia. Peritoneovaginoplasty aims to extend vagina by vesical peritoneum and anterior rectal wall to improve postoperative sexual function.
Intermediate outcomes after female urethral reconstruction: graft vs flap.	To evaluate the outcomes of women after urethral reconstruction with a vaginal flap urethroplasty (VFU) or dorsal buccal mucosal graft (BMG).
Sigmoid vaginoplasty with a modified single Monti tube: a pediatric case series.	No consensus exists regarding the most effective procedure for neovagina formation. We describe our experience with modified single Monti tube colovaginoplasty in pediatric patients with disorders of sexual differentiation.
Transabdominal laser colpotomy.	Transabdominal laser colpotomy was performed on 26 women for the removal of sizable pathologic specimens obtained through extensive operative laparoscopy. We used CO2 lasers operated at 10-30 W with a continuous wave. The colpotomy incision was cut across ring forceps that were then used to retrieve and remove the specimens vaginally under laparoscopic control. Colpotomy was found to be safe and not to increase morbidity in extensive laparoscopy.
A new modification of colpocleisis for treatment of total procidentia in old age.	A new approach for treating uterine prolapse in old age is presented. Fiftten patients underwent this operation during our 5-year study. The procedure is simple and brief and can be performed, using a local anesthetic, on patients whose general condition is poor. The patients in our series had no immediate postoperative complications, and those who attended our follow-up clinic had no recurrence of the disease.
Vaginoplasty for gender confirmation.	Male-to-female surgery for properly diagnosed gender dysphoria, conducted as an interdisciplinary rehabilitation program, may be a valid endeavor in many cases. Successful surgical results have been obtained by those skilled in this type of surgery.
Technic of percutaneous anterior colpopexy under endoscopic control for orthostatic and urinary stress incontinence in women (Stamey's operation)]	Percutaneous anterior colpopexy, as described by Stamey, constitutes a simple, reliable method for treatment of orthostatic and stress incontinence of urine in women. As with all operations destined to correct this infirmity, its aim is to replace the bladder neck and initial part of urethra into spaces subject to pelvic pressure. The principle of the operation consists of solidly attaching the whole thickness of particularly the para-cervicourethral vagina fibrous layer to the anterior abdominal wall by means of two solid monofilament threads of caliber 2, scissoring on the threads being prevented by insertion of a 1 X 0.5 cm vascular prosthesis. The operation mainly involves a vaginal approach: the vaginal incision in T exposing the bladder neck. Two abdominal incisions 2 cm in length and avoiding the aponeurosis are made 1 cm above the pubis from one side of the median line to the other. These allow Stamey's needles to be passed behind the symphysis up to the vaginal incision under endoscopic control. Cystoscopy is an essential part of surgery since it allows verification of good positioning of thread exactly at the bladder neck level and of the quality of the hyperelevation of posterior lip of bladder neck obtained. As effective as other retropubic anterior colpopexies, this procedure under endoscopic control has the major advantage of avoiding opening of Retzius space, with its inevitable morbidity, and of being possible without difficulty in previously operated patients. It should undoubtedly be included in the therapeutic armament used for this frequent infirmity.
Vaginal reconstruction after exenteration with use of gracilis myocutaneous flaps: the University of California, San Francisco experience.	At the University of California, San Francisco Medical Center we have performed 18 vaginal reconstructive procedures with gracilis flaps at the time of anterior, posterior, or total pelvic exenteration. We have compared these patients with 13 other patients undergoing exenteration during the same interval who chose not to have vaginal reconstruction. There was no significant difference between the two groups with respect to age, weight, operating time, blood loss, or duration of postoperative hospitalization, but there were significantly fewer serious complications in the patients receiving gracilis flaps. The results of a questionnaire indicated that the perineal cosmetic results are highly acceptable, although residual scarring on the legs is a common source of minor complaint. Sexual adjustment can be complete or nearly complete in surviving patients. Given the major contribution to wound healing, reduced postoperative morbidity, excellent cosmetic results, and the opportunity for complete sexual rehabilitation, we believe the gracilis myocutaneous flap neovagina remains the procedure of choice for most women undergoing major exenterative procedures.
The value of vaginoplasty in perineal cicatrization following amputation of the rectum via abdomino-perineal approach]	Advantage of vaginoplasty in perineum healing following abdominoperineal amputation of the rectum. Healing of the perineal wound following abdominoperineal amputation of the rectum is achieved by secondary intention within 6 to 12 weeks. To improve the tedious dressings and to minimise the duration of healing, resorting to primary healing of the perineum in the females is facilitated by a technique of vaginoplasty. Our observations through personal experience dealing with 24 patients matched those described by Johnston in 1969 and 1979. Perineal healing was obtained within 10-14 days. The vaginal floor epithelialization was obtained after a median duration of 32.7 days. No important complications were noticed in relation to this technique.
Detrusor instability following colposuspension for urinary stress incontinence.	Sixty-two patients with genuine stress incontinence (group A) and 30 women with combined detrusor instability and genuine stress incontinence (group B) had a colposuspension operation. The proportion with symptoms of detrusor instability was significantly reduced from 24% before operation to 9% after operation in group A and from 73% to 33% in group B. Urodynamically, detrusor instability developed after surgery in 17 of the 62 patients (27%) in group A whereas only 12 of the 30 women (40%) in group B had detrusor instability after surgery. No urodynamic explanation was found to explain the effect of colposuspension in relieving the symptoms of detrusor instability in some and causing them in others. Nevertheless, it is suggested that colposuspension is helpful for most patients with combined detrusor instability and genuine stress incontinence.
The clinical and urodynamic effects of anterior vaginal repair and Burch colposuspension.	The clinical and urodynamic effects of anterior vaginal repair and Burch colposuspension for correction of stress urinary incontinence were assessed in a prospective study. Ninety women undergoing surgery for the first time because of genuine stress incontinence were studied. A full clinical examination including simultaneous urethrocystometry according to a standardized methodology with the patients in the supine, sitting, and standing positions was performed preoperatively, 3 months postoperatively, and again 1 to 2 years later. Clinical follow-up continued for 5 to 7 years. Neither surgical anterior vaginal repair nor Burch colposuspension affected the resting variables of the urethral sphincter mechanism. After Burch colposuspension the transmitted intraabdominal pressure to the urethra significantly increased in all recording positions in all women who were successfully treated. After successful anterior colporrhaphy, the increase in pressure transmission from the abdomen to the urethra was less prominent and was only present in the sitting and standing positions. The postural changes in the urethral pressure profile characteristic of stress urinary incontinence were still present even after successful restoration of continence. The impact of successful surgery for stress incontinence is the enhancement of transmission of the intraabdominal pressure rise to the proximal urethra. This is achieved primarily by anatomic alterations rather than by altering urethral sphincter function. Burch colposuspension was more effective for the correction of genuine stress incontinence than was anterior vaginal repair.
Creation of an artificial vagina in persons with male pseudohermaphroditism]	The author elaborated a method of creation of an artificial vagina in patients with false male hermaphroditism during puberty from the skin of the removed clitoris, with the correction of external genitalia in the female direction. This method is harmless, the operative technique is simple. Positive anatomical and cosmetic results were obtained in two patients with the mentioned pathology.
Invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vagina: a 14-year study.	A retrospective review was conducted of patients with squamous cell carcinoma of the vagina managed at one institution over a 14-year period. The 28 cases of squamous cell vaginal carcinoma constituted 3.1% of all female genital tract cancers. Forty-six percent of the patients had undergone a previous hysterectomy for benign disease or for cervical intraepithelial neoplasia; 14.2% had had irradiation. Disease of stage III or greater occurred in 43% of the study group. The majority of patients were treated by radiation therapy. The overall survival was 42.8%. This review indicates that patients who have had a previous hysterectomy should remain under close surveillance.
Diethylstilbestrol-related clear-cell adenocarcinoma in women with initial examinations demonstrating no malignant disease.	The DES Screening Center of Queens, Nassau, and Suffolk counties has screened approximately 2000 diethylstilbestrol (DES)-exposed women since its inception in 1979. Four women, who at their initial visit were noted to have only nonmalignant DES-related changes, subsequently developed clear-cell adenocarcinoma while under observation, between 18-81 months after their first colposcopy. The age at diagnosis ranged from 16-31. Three patients had been receiving close follow-up; one had not. These cases emphasize the need for frequent follow-up for these patients using careful inspection and palpation, vaginal and cervical cytology, colposcopy, and colposcopically directed biopsy of suspicious areas.
Penile and scrotal inversion vaginoplasty for male to female transsexuals.	A technique of penile and scrotal inversion vaginoplasty for the male to female transsexual has been used successfully in 11 gender-dysphoric patients. The depth of the neovagina is approximately 11 cm--a cosmetic and physiologic result that adds greatly to the patient's satisfaction with the operation. There were no complications of rectal or urethral fistulas. In 1 patient vaginal stenosis developed.
Suprapubic bladder drainage versus a transurethral catheter in patients following anterior colporrhaphy]	Gynaecological operations for urinary stress incontinence necessitate long-term drainage of the bladder. In this retrospective study 100 patients receiving a conventional indwelling urethral catheter system were compared with 90 patients receiving a transabdominal suprapubic catheter for postoperative bladder drainage. The transurethral catheter was removed 5 days after the operation while the suprapubic catheter was left in place until no residual urine was detected. Patients with suprapubic bladder drainage showed no residual urine two days earlier (8.8 +/- 4.3 versus 10.9 +/- 5.0 days), left the hospital two days earlier (12.3 +/- 3.9 versus 13.9 +/- 4.4 days), and had a lower incidence of urinary tract infections (17% versus 30%) than patients with urethral catheters. In five cases suprapubic catheters had to be removed prematurely because of complications such as pain, persistent haematuria or obstruction of the catheter. Rates of haematuria were similar in both groups. Catheter-related pain was less frequent with suprapubic drainage. The acceptance of the suprapubic system by patients and nursing staff was good, particularly since measurement of the residual urine did not necessitate repeated urethral catheterization. The additional time required for placing the suprapubic catheter postoperatively is by far outweighed by the advantages of this system, such as shorter hospitalization and a lower incidence of urinary tract infections.
Surgical treatment of rectoceles]	Rectocele is a posterior colpocele inhabited by an expansion of the anterior wall of the rectum. Its physiopathology is similar to that of other vaginal prolapse and is essentially dependent on the opening of the vulva secondary to a damage of the pelvi-perineal musculature. Its specific symptomatology is poor except for dyschesis. A colpocystogram may be helpful when there is a need to differentiate between rectocele and elytrocele. The surgical treatment of rectocele requires, most of the time, a vaginal approach with posterior colpo-perineomyorraphy. More rarely, when the rectocele is isolated, small and associated with another anorectal pathology, the endo ano-rectal approach may be used to perform the rectorraphy.
The complications of colposuspension.	Fifty patients with stress incontinence treated by a colposuspension procedure were reviewed symptomatically and urodynamically before and after surgery and followed up for 1 to 6 years (mean 4.5). Although 84% were continent post-operatively, only 63% of those previously operated on for incontinence were dry, and only 44% were dry and complication-free in the long term.
The use of vascular clips to minimize blood loss in colpourethropexy.	A serious intraoperative and postoperative complication associated with colpourethropexy as described by Burch and Tanagho and others is hemorrhage. We performed the Tanagho modification of the Burch procedure in 13 patients, as the sole procedure in the treatment of genuine stress incontinence. Vascular clips were used to circumscribe the fat overlying the anterior part of the vaginal wall, thereby allowing en bloc resection of the vascular fat pad. Suspensory sutures of 1-0 Vicryl (polyglactin 910) were placed; no retroperitoneal drains were used. The blood loss was estimated to be less than 50 milliliters in ten instances and less than 75 milliliters in three. The average hospital stay was 4.2 days. All of the patients were given antibiotic prophylaxis and were discharged home with suprapubic drainage of the bladder. There were no intraoperative or postoperative complications. Thus, one of the serious complications of colpourethropexy can be avoided by using vascular clips to facilitate the removal of the periurethral and paravesical fat from the anterior part of the vaginal wall.
Subjective and objective improvement of urinary incontinence in females following vaginal and abdominal incontinence operations]	236 patients were reevaluated one year after vaginal or suprapubic continence surgery. Personal history, clinico-gynaecological status, morphology and urodynamics were considered. 70.6% respectively 82% of all patients considered themselves cured. These numbers correlate well with objective control parameters. The clinical examination shows that a suprapubic approach is better for an urethrocele whereas vaginal surgery is more successful for a cystocele or rectocele. The correction of an urethrocele has however a greater influence on the chance of cure. Obesity is a risk factor especially for vaginal surgery and in both groups oestrogen application improved the healing process. The morphological examination demonstrates the importance of urethro-vesical suspension giving better results after suprapubic than after vaginal operation. The urodynamic results depend on the choice of measurement parameters. Suprapubic surgery generally brings about a greater improvement in pressure conditions than vaginal surgery. The best parameter seems to be the Dep Q. Vaginal continence surgery needs a good indication with a best possible urethro-vesical suspension. This is not an operation for beginners.
Sterilization of women: benefits vs risks.	Voluntary sterilization is the birth control method most widely practiced throughout the world. The last ten years have witnessed great improvements in techniques and perfection of innovations, explaining the important role that it now plays in the regulation of fertility. Different methods are examined and it is concluded that hysterectomy is the best, if medically indicated; conventional laparotomy is not justified unless required by concomitant intraabdominal pathology; minilaparotomy is mostly suitable postpartum; colpotomy is better left to specialists; laparoscopy is ideal for nonpregnant patients; culdoscopy is a relic of the past; and hysteroscopy, although still experimental, may be the way of the future. The advantages of voluntary sterilization lie in its remarkable and immediate efficiency, freedom from ongoing motivation, the convenience of a one-time operation, the absence of side effects and the reduction of total costs. Its disadvantages are the complexity of any surgical intervention for a woman, its indisputable finality, its uncertain legality and the risks inherent in any operation. Hysterectomy and tubal ligation are practically never fatal, so this argument does not influence the choice of either method. However, incidence of morbidity is higher following hysterectomies, which must therefore be justified. The balance is clearly in favor of voluntary sterilization for the woman who is convinced that the size of her family is complete.
Transabdominal repair of cystocele, a 20 year experience, compared with the traditional vaginal approach.	In patients with pelvic floor relaxation and concomitant pelvic pathology indicating the abdominal approach the so-called "combined" operation is not a satisfactory technique. During the course of the total abdominal hysterectomy the cystocele can well be repaired by mobilizing the bladder and excising the relaxed vaginal mucosa. The technique is described and its efficiency in 76 cases is compared to 109 cases repaired by the traditional vaginal approach. Over a 20 year period, 92% of the former as compared to 78% of the latter showed a satisfactory result. Both series revealed that time plus anatomic stress are the major factors in those patients in whom the pelvic floor relaxation recurred.
Cervical mucus before and after cryotherapy of benign changes in the vaginal part of the cervix uteri]	Bacteriological findings obtained by the Cryo-method of cervical smears before and after the treatment of cervicitis and ectopia in the vaginal part of the uterine cervix of 64 women revealed certain essential changes. Before the Cryo-therapy, pathogenic microorganisms were verified in 49 patients (76.56%), while saprophytic flora was isolated from 15 patients (23.45%). After the treatment, this proportion was significantly changed: saprophytic flora was isolated from 45 patients (70.34%), while pathogenic flora continued persisting in 19 patients (29.67%). Eight weeks following the treatment, instead of a dense, non-elastic, opaque, cellular secretion before the Cryo-therapy, a clear elastic, acellular mucus was recorded.
Treatment of 282 cases of urinary stress incontinence by retropubic colpopexy to Cooper's ligaments]	282 patients have undergone colpopexy to cooper ligament: 184 patients with genital prolapse treatment by abdominal approach, 18 patients with total hysterectomy for bening disease, 80 patients without any surgical procedure. Clinical survey was completed, for some patients, especially for the fifteen second-hand patients, by uretrocolpocystogram and/or urodynamic explorations. Functional results are equal to other works and seem to little decrease at a five year's notice. 8.5% of patients have had urinary urgencies. Failures seem more related with wrong indication than wrong surgical technic. The use of urinary studies might achieve for the difficult cases a better selection of patients for surgery and improvement of results.
Plastic surgical postero-lateral redirection extension vulvo-vaginoplasty.	This paper offers a report of a vulvo-vaginoplasty, that rotates the vaginal axis away from alignment with the internal genitalia and bladder to treat refractory coitally connected recurrent cystitis and deep internal genital and bladder dyspareunia, by lessening coital trauma to the bladder and the internal genitalia. This rotation also aligns the vagina with the clitoris and the upper inner labia, which increases the mechanical efficiency of indirect coital clitoral manipulation via the inner labia and adds direct coital clitoral manipulation. The intensity of coital sexual response is thereby equated with the intensity of clitoral response. Standard reconstructive surgical procedures are utilized to rotate the axis of the vagina, which shorten the long axis of the vagina, requiring the concomitant construction from the labia majora of an extension of the vagina and a new introitus, both of an appropriate diameter. This extends the vagina to the clitoris and the indications for the operation to treatment of iatrogenic or congenital stricture and shortening of the vagina; and childbirth enlargement. The clitoris is not moved. It is circumcised to increase clitoral response. A preliminary report of results is included herein.
Synchronous combined transvaginal-transvesical repair of vesicovaginal fistulas.	Nine cases of vesicovaginal fistula which followed hysterectomy, with or without radiotherapy, are presented. The repair by the above-mentioned technique eventually led to successful closure in all cases. A strong argument can now be advanced that this is the technique of choice in the large, high postoperative type of vesicovaginal fistula which is now the common type of fistula seen in affluent countries.
Clinical and urodynamic effects of anterior colporrhaphy and vaginal hysterectomy for prolapse with and without incontinence.	The clinical and urodynamic effects of anterior colporrhaphy and vaginal hysterectomy were studied in 73 patients, of whom 29 had incontinence due to urethral sphincter incompetence. Pre-and post-operative urodynamic assessment was made and follow-up continued for 2 years. Symptoms of urge incontinence, stress incontinence and prolapse were significantly reduced following surgery. Urodynamic data showed no significant change. The incidence of detrusor instability and voiding difficulties was not increased.
Treatment of prolapsed submucous fibroids.	Prolapsed submucous fibroids are not uncommon, and patients present with a vaginal mass which is often necrotic and infected. This is a retrospective study of 41 such patients seen at the King Edward VIII Hospital, Durban, over a 3-year period. Twenty-eight were treated by vaginal myomectomy and 13 by abdominal hysterectomy. Postoperative morbidity was slightly higher with hysterectomy, but comparable to that for hysterectomy for unprolapsed fibroids.
Carcinoma of the cervix and sexual function.	Forty-six patients were interviewed more than a year after treatment for carcinoma of the cervix to establish the effects of radiation therapy and of surgical therapy on sexual feelings and performance. Group 1 consisted of 22 patients who had undergone radiation therapy for stage I, II, or III cancer of the cervix. Group 2 consisted of 20 patients who had undergone hysterectomy with or without partial vaginectomy for carcinoma in situ. The irradiated patients experienced statistically significant decreases in sexual enjoyment, ability to attain orgasm, libido, frequency of intercourse, opportunity, and sexual dreams. The surgically treated group had no significant change in sexual function after treatment. Both groups experienced a change in self-image but did not feel that their partners or family viewed them differently. Myths about cancer and the actual effects of pelvic irradiation were found to have disrupted the sexual-marital relationships of many women. Therapeutic programs are discussed through which women can be helped through this difficult time in their lives.
Conservative surgical management of vaginal and vulvar pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma: a report from the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study III.	The current management of pediatric vaginal and vulvar rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) uses cytoreductive chemotherapy before surgical intervention. During the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study (IRS)-III (1984 to 1988), 27 evaluable patients were entered on a preoperative chemotherapy protocol. Among 24 patients with vaginal primaries, 20 had an initial biopsy with gross residual (group III), 3 had resection with positive margins (group IIA) and 1 had metastatic disease (group IV). At subsequent surgery, 7 patients underwent partial or complete vaginectomy and 6 of them had no viable tumor identified in the specimen. Only 1 of these 7 patients underwent a cystectomy, whereas 5 underwent hysterectomy. Seventeen patients in this group have no evidence of disease 66 to 108 months after diagnosis; 2 died of chemotoxicity and 1 of unknown causes after achieving a complete response. Ten of these 17 patients were treated with biopsy and chemotherapy only. Four of these 10 had radiotherapy as well. All group IIA patients have no evidence of disease. The 1 group IV patient had rapidly progressive disease with early death. This primary chemotherapy protocol resulted in less need for operative intervention or irradiation compared with previous experience. There was no local recurrence, and 20 of 24 patients remain continuously relapse-free with no evidence of disease. All 3 patients with vulvar primaries were treated by wide local excision and chemotherapy and have no evidence of disease. Conservative surgical intervention for vaginal RMS with primary chemotherapy and adjunctive radiation when necessary appears to result in excellent disease-free survival.
Conservative management of uterine pediatric rhabdomyosarcoma: a report from the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study III and IV pilot.	Previous studies have suggested that women with uterine rhabdomyosarcomas (RMS) represent a distinct group of patients who present at an older age, are less responsive to treatment, and have a poorer prognosis than patients with vaginal RMS. During the Intergroup Rhabdomyosarcoma Study (IRS) III and the IRS IV pilot study, 14 patients were registered with uterine primary RMS. Three patients presented with cervical tumors that were completely removed (group 1). Eight patients had initial biopsies with gross residual disease (group 3), and 3 had metastatic disease at presentation (group 4). Of the 5 patients treated with primary chemotherapy or chemotherapy and radiation, 2 had delayed hysterectomy and vaginectomy, 1 had no further surgery, and 2 had exploratory laparotomy with no evidence of disease. There were no relapses or deaths in this group. One patient underwent initial resection of a broad ligament mass, experienced an early (3-week) recurrence of the mass while on chemotherapy, and progressed to developing distant metastases and death. Four patients died of chemotherapy toxicity or sepsis, one after achieving a complete response from chemotherapy and hysterectomy. This primary chemotherapy or chemotherapy and radiotherapy regimen resulted in 8 of 9 (89%) patients (not including those who died of chemotoxicity) surviving between 1.5 and 6 years without evidence of disease. Of the surviving patients, 2 had hysterectomy and vaginectomy, but pathological specimens showed only localized microscopic residual tumor. This report suggests that less vigorous operative resection may be possible in combination with primary chemotherapy when treating uterine rhabdomyosarcomas.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Vesicovaginal fistulas on one urological service.	Of 92 vesicovaginal fistulas 57 (62 per cent) were closed, at least temporarily, with 1 or more operations. Functional closure was not attempted in 23 per cent of the cases and failed in 15 per cent. Various techniques were used in these cases. The favorite method involved a combination of colpocleisis, splitting the posterior wall of the bladder suprapubically and a temporary cystostomy on low pressure suction. Five patients (5.4 per cent) died postoperatively.
Laparoscopic treatment for genuine urinary stress incontinence.	Among various operations for stress urinary incontinence, the retropubic colposuspension (Burch procedure) has the best long-term result for treatment of genuine urinary stress incontinence caused by hypermobility of proximal urethra and the urethrovesical junction. With advanced technology in operative laparoscopy. Burch colposuspension can be performed laparoscopically without difficulty and it can achieve the same therapeutic result as the traditional open surgery. Laparoscopy provides better visibility of the operative field, more precise placement of paraurethral sutures and satisfactory haemostasis. Patients who undergo laparoscopic Burch procedure experience less postoperative discomfort, quicker recovery, fewer operative complications, and better cosmetic appearance.
Treatment principles in ureterovesicovaginal fistulae]	Long-term results (1-11 years) are available for 19 patients out of 78 females operated on for ureterovesicovaginal fistulas. The paper presents the analysis of the time lap from fistula formation, operative approaches, preoperative preparation, the operative technique. Good results were obtained in 17 patients.
The treatment of stress incontinence by Burch's colposuspension]	By describing the stages of the colposuspensio according to Burch the authors emphasize the differences of this operation compared with the retro-pubic uteropexy a modo Marshal I-Marchetti-Krantz. Stress are the positive sides of the colposuspensio a modo Burch which make it a method of choice with the treatment of stress incontinentio in many countries and simultaneously special attention is paid to some of the stages of the operation which demand exact strictness. The colposuspensio a modo Burch guarantees high effective treatment (personal experience from 1989) that is why the authors propose this operation to be a method of choice concerning the treatment of stress incontinentio.
A technique for modified McCall culdeplasty at the time of abdominal hysterectomy.	A technique has been described for performing a modified form of the McCall culdeplasty at the time of abdominal hysterectomy. The use of such techniques during abdominal, as well as vaginal, hysterectomy, should help decrease the incidence of posthysterectomy vaginal vault prolapse and enterocele formation.
Abdominal colposuspension--the gold standard in incontinence therapy?]	Abdominal colposuspension has become the operation of choice in moderate and severe urinary incontinence in the female. The operation involves an elevation of the bladder neck and approximation to the back of the symphysis pubis, resulting in an improved pressure transmission to the proximal urethra. These operative techniques have become standardised, while the various modifications differ in the exact location of the sutures in the vaginal fascia and connective tissue in the small pelvis. Most commonly, the sutures are placed lateral of the bladder neck and passed through the ileo-pectineal ligament (Cooper ligament). Even in unfavourable cases, success-rate lies between 70% and 90%.
Recto-vagino-vestibuloplasty using a vagino-colonic flap with double colonic implantation for rectocloacal fistula.	This technique was devised to obtain a good cosmetic appearance of the perineum and a functional neovagina, without any need for a dilator, by using a vaginocolonic flap marsupialized to the perineum and by creating a vestibule with noncornifying squamous epithelium. The technique was used to treat a 2 year old girl who had a single small orifice in the upper part of a featureless perineum, with a high-confluence rectocloacal fistula between a short urethra and double vagina, which was separated by a septum. A long inverted U-shaped flap at the posterior wall of the vagina was reversed to become the anterior wall of the distal vagina. The urogenital sinus (UGS) was preserved to serve as the urethra. The colon distal to the colostomy was divided into two loops; a segment of the distal loop was opened and trimmed to form a flap, and served as the posterior wall of the distal vagina. The proximal segment was pulled down to become the rectum. To construct the vestibule, a vertical midline incision was made from the fused labia minora to the perineum, cutting back the UGS. The anterior wall of the vagina, which was pulled through just behind the UGS, was divided vertically and sutured around the opened UGS and the suitably prepared labia minora. The posterior wall, which consisted of the colonic flap, was sutured to the incised perineal skin, creating a posterior commissure. At present, 2 1/2 years after the repair, the patient is dry between completely continent urinations and has little vaginal discharge.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A single i.v. dose of ondansetron 8 mg prior to induction of anaesthesia reduces postoperative nausea and vomiting in gynaecological patients.	The effect of a single intravenous dose of ondansetron in preventing postoperative nausea and emesis (retching and vomiting) (PONV) was investigated in a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicentre, international study. Women of ASA class I-III, requiring gynaecological laparotomy, vaginal hysterectomy, or major vaginal surgery were selected for study. Two hundred and thirty-five received placebo, 231 received 1 mg ondansetron, 228 received 8 mg ondansetron and 229 received 16 mg ondansetron, as an infusion over five minutes before the induction of anaesthesia. A standardized balanced anaesthetic technique was employed. This consisted of premedication with either diazepam or temazepam, thiopentone induction, maintenance with nitrous oxide in oxygen supplemented with enflurane or isoflurane, intraoperative analgesia with fentanyl, neuromuscular blockade with any choice of agent and reversal with neostigmine and atropine. Postoperative analgesia was achieved with morphine, and prochlorperazine or metoclopramide were given if a rescue antiemetic was required. A greater percentage of patients in the 8 mg and 16 mg ondansetron groups experienced no postoperative emesis (44% and 39% respectively) than in the placebo and 1 mg ondansetron groups (29% and 28% respectively) for the first 24 hr postoperative period (8 mg vs placebo and 1 mg: P < or = 0.001; 16 mg vs placebo: P < 0.05; 16 mg vs 1 mg: P < 0.05). Similarly, the percentage of patients who did not experience postoperative nausea were 20%, 26%, 31% and 28% for the placebo, 1 mg, 8 mg and 16 mg ondansetron treatment groups, respectively (8 mg and 16 mg vs placebo P < 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Vaginal uterine amputation.	Since sexual dysfunction after hysterectomy might be prevented by leaving the portio in place, a technique was developed to perform vaginal uterine amputation. The method appeared to have been described already 40 years ago but has vanished from textbooks since then.
Posthysterectomy rectal and vaginal prolapse, a commonly overlooked problem.	The existence of combined rectal and vaginal prolapse is more common than the literature would suggest. This paper outlines a further development in the operative management which has been applied to 24 patients with this problem. All had had a hysterectomy and most had had in addition one or more vaginal repairs. The common mode of presentation was one of pelvic pain (19 patients), sometimes severe, crippling and intractable and some form of protrusion (14 patients), difficult or unsatisfied defaecation and rectal incontinence (9 patients). The vaginal prolapse which always involved the vault and usually involved the lower vagina was usually found to be incomplete and the rectal prolapse complete (but occult). The operative procedure essentially consists of a Wells type rectopexy which has a new modification in which the sling is extended to anchor the vaginal vault after correction of the enterocele by the abdominal approach. A vaginal repair is subsequently performed at the same operation where anterior or posterior vaginal prolapse persists. Important points in the procedure are the avoidance of sepsis (the vaginal vault is not opened during the procedure) and protection of the ureters by careful assessment of the lateral margins of the vaginal vault which is illuminated by transvaginal vault endoscopy. At this early stage operative morbidity has been minimal, relief of the pelvic symptoms has been most encouraging, but the length of follow-up is short (range 6-30 months, average 15.6) and long-term evaluation will be necessary as with all surgery for prolapse.
Eventration of the small intestine through the vagina]	The paper is a description of prolapse of small intestine through vagina in 66 year old woman, who had hysterectomy by laparotomy four years earlier. The intestines were repositioned by the vaginal route and then the opening at the top of vagina was sutured by laparatomy. In the next stage colpo-perineoplasty with formation of very high perineum was made.
The surgical treatment of urinary stress incontinence following hysterectomy or operation for genital prolapse (author's transl)]	Thirty patients suffering from stress incontinence of urine following hysterectomy or operation for genital prolapse underwent operation after study of the colpocystogram. This examination, practically painless and free of risk, visualises pelvic visceral kinetics and is felt by the author to be essential. It confirms the existence of stress incontinence, reveals the usual cause, detects associated abnormalities and indicates the appropriate surgical technique. The method of treatment was paramedial or medial fixation of the uterus, vagina or residual cervix to the public promontory, complemented in some cases by excision of the pouch of Douglas or posterior myorraphy. Apart from in certain special cases (irritable tirgone syndrome) the cure of mictional problems can be guaranteed.
Pyocystis.	A case of pyocystis occurring in a woman after supravesical urinary diversion for complicated neuropathic bladder is reported. Treatment consisted of a vaginal vesicostomy. Indications for the precedure and the problems associated with it are discussed with special emphasis on sexual intercourse.
Four-corner urethro-vesical suspension with vaginal islands: presentation of a new surgical technic for the correction of urinary incontinence and initial experience with 49 patients]	Obtained results were excellent. If it is considered that from the total of patients received during 45 months, candidates for surgery were 86 and 37 of them did not meet the inclusion requirements, this means that the treated group with the designed technique, is very selective. In this technique the same resistant structures were used, to perform the suspension as with endopelvic fascia, pubo-urethral ligaments, and besides an element considered as the most resistant, was added: an island of vaginal wall, complete size.
Celio-assisted vaginal surgery]	Remarkable progress has been made in laparoscopic surgery over the past few years. The evolution of laparoscopic techniques has enabled surgeons to undertake celio-assisted vaginal operations. In particular, the possibility of using mechanical retractors to lift the abdominal wall as an alternative to pneumoperitoneum now enables surgeons to operate simultaneously using a transvaginal and laparoscopic approach. Gas-free laparoscopy has introduced a new and very interesting concept of laparovaginal surgery. The uterus is in fact both an abdominal and pelvic organ and can therefore be reached more easily and with greater safety using a combined vaginal and laparoscopic technique.
Prospective randomized comparison between an open and closed vaginal cuff in abdominal hysterectomy.	To compare an operative and postoperative course of open vaginal cuff hysterectomy and closed vaginal cuff hysterectomy, and to correlate the length of stay, febrile morbidity and the incidence of pelvic fluid collections to the type of surgery.
Site-specific fascial defects in the diagnosis and surgical management of enterocele.	The aim of this study was to assess the surgical feasibility and clinical outcomes of a vaginal enterocele repair that was based on the theory of site-specific defects in the vaginal fascia.
An anatomic and functional assessment of the discrete defect rectocele repair.	The aim of this study was to describe the anatomic and functional results of the discrete fascial defect rectocele repair.
The risk of cystocele after sacrospinous ligament fixation.	The aim of this study was to determine whether sacrospinous ligament fixation independently increases the risk of anterior vaginal wall defect.
Pregnancies after radical vaginal trachelectomy for early-stage cervical cancer.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of fertility-preserving surgery in the treatment of early-stage cervical cancer.
Advantages of spinal anesthesia in abdominal gynecologic surgery.	The advantages obtained in vaginal surgery and caesarean section using spinal anesthesia led us to test this anesthesia to verify feasibility, problems and advantages in abdominal surgery. Spinal anesthesia was performed in 60 patients between 21 and 87 years of age. Thirty-seven total abdominal hysterectomies with or without adnexectomy, 5 laparotomic miomectomies, 3 adnexectomies, 5 colposacropexies, 2 hysterectomies with lymphadenectomy, 7 Burch colposuspension with or without hysterectomy and 1 laparoscopy for sterilization were performed. No significant problems during surgery and the postoperative period were observed. Resumption of the different physiologic functions were more rapid, hospital stay shorter and compliance greater than with general anesthesia.
