Nonbarrier contraceptives and vaginitis and vaginosis.	Within the limitations of the available data, it has been reported that oral contraceptive use versus other contraceptive methods is associated with a greater or similar frequency of candidiasis, increased numbers of anaerobic microorganisms, an increased or similar frequency of chlamydia trachomatis, and a reduced frequency of bacterial vaginosis and trichomoniasis. The impact of contraceptive steroids on cellular and humoral immunologic factors may explain these observations. Intrauterine contraceptive device use is reported to be associated with an increased rate of bacterial vaginosis and anaerobic organism recovery from the vagina regardless of symptoms. Patients having a contraceptive vaginal ring were found to have the same number and types of vaginal organisms as oral contraceptive users. Levonorgestrel-releasing subdermal implant (Norplant, Wyeth-Ayerst, Philadelphia, Pa.) users have been reported to have approximately half the rate of vaginitis and vaginosis compared with that of Copper T-200 intrauterine device users.
Assessment of the safety of long-term bazedoxifene treatment on the reproductive tract in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis: results of a 7-year, randomized, placebo-controlled, phase 3 study.	To evaluate the clinical safety of bazedoxifene (BZA) on the reproductive tract in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis over 7 years.
Chlamydia trachomatis infection in late pregnancy: a prospective study.	During a 1-year period, 3309 women were screened in pregnancy for Chlamydia trachomatis infection. A cervical swab was taken and chlamydial antigen was detected, using a monoclonal antibody ELISA technique, in 198 women (6%). The prevalence of chlamydial infection was high in women under 20 years (14.5%), single women (14.2%) and black women (16.8%). Binomial regression of these data estimates a relative risk of 2.9 for women under 20 years compared with women aged 25 and over. There was an interaction between race and marital status with a high risk in single white and single asian women (2.3, 4.5 respectively) but a similar risk in black single and black married women (3.0, 4.0 respectively). Parity and social class did not effect the prevalence of antigen carriage. There was no demonstrable effect of maternal antigen carriage on outcome of pregnancy, gestation or admission to neonatal unit. Infants of 174 antigen-positive mothers were followed-up. Tissue culture for Chlamydia trachomatis was positive in 43 (24%) infants. Complications occurred in 23 (53%): 17 had conjunctivitis, three had lower respiratory tract infection and three both complications. Amongst 131 chlamydia-negative infants, complications occurred in 21 (16%). Since this infection, in infants, responds promptly to erythromycin therapy, screening and treatment in pregnancy will convey little benefit in prevention of perinatal morbidity or perinatal mortality.
A survey of genital infections in patients attending a clinic for sexually transmitted diseases.	747 consecutive patients, 531 men and 216 women, attending the Division of Dermatovenerology, City Health Dept., Oslo, were screened for N. gonorrhoeae (14.5% and 18.5%), C. trachomatis (19.6% and 20.8%), G. vaginalis (0.2% and 6.5%), and C. albicans (1.1% and 21.3%). The prevalence is given in brackets for men and women, respectively. This study was undertaken in order to determine the relative prevalence of these microorganisms with particular reference to G. vaginalis, to determine the importance of concomitant infections, and the possible effect of contraceptive methods (oral contraceptives and IUD) on the prevalence of these microorganisms.
Incidence, species distribution and antifungal sensitivity pattern of vaginal yeasts in Sri Lankan women.	A total of 432 high vaginal swabs from patients with vulvovaginitis were processed for the presence of yeasts. Candida species were isolated from 40 (32.4%). In comparison, vaginal swabs from 107 normal asymptomatic women yielded only eight (7.3%) isolates (P < 0.001). Candida albicans was the commonest species isolated (76%). Other species included C. tropicalis, C. krusei, C. kefyr, C. glabrata and C. guilliermondii. Of the C. albicans isolates, 42.8% showed in vitro resistance to miconazole and 6.6% to econazole. Ninety-two percent of the isolates were sensitive to the polyenes (nystatin and amphotericin B) and 87% and 74% to clotrimazole and ketaconazole respectively.
Vaginitis and vaginosis. Comparison of two periods]	Vaginitis is the most frequent gynecological disease. It is characterized by objective and subjective signs of inflammation and differs from bacterial vaginosis (BV) which is an abnormal condition of the vaginal ecosystem caused by the excessive growth of aerobic and anaerobic flora normally present in the vagina with an increased risk of pelvic inflammatory disease (PID). The authors report the results of a study carried out at the Centre for Gynecological Infections at the Clinic of Obstetrics and Gynecology of the University of Parma. 828 patients were enrolled in the study during the period 1985-86 and 1559 patients during the two-year period 1991-92. The aim of the study was to evaluate variations in epidemiological data for vaginitis and bacterial vaginosis in the two periods examined. No significant changes were observed (p > 0.05) with regard to the prevalence of Ca, Tv and BV forms. On the other hand, there was a significant reduction (p < 0.001) in the forms sustained by other microorganisms (above all, streptococcus and enterobacteria) between the first and second periods with a parallel increase in the number of negative cases. The analysis of the age distribution of vaginitis and BV showed a reduction of other microorganisms and an increase in negative vaginal swabs in adults (> 20 years old).
