Group B streptococcus carriage and vulvovaginal symptoms: causal or casual? A case-control study in a GUM clinic population.	The isolation of group B streptococcus (GBS) on routine swabs taken from genitourinary medicine (GUM) clinic attendees is a common finding. The relation of GBS to vulvovaginal symptoms is unclear, creating confusion about management. This case-control study tested the hypothesis that detection of GBS on routine clinical specimens is not causally related to vulvovaginal symptoms in female GUM clinic attendees.
Probiotics for mother and child.	For the survival of humankind, nothing can be as important as the health of a mother and a child. As the world's population grows to more than 6 billion, it might seem ridiculous to suggest that any real threat exists to the human species. Diseases have long ravaged populations, as have wars, poverty, and malnutrition. Life today is no different with new and emerging diseases such as SARS and Mad Cow Disease leaving a trail of concern around the planet. All that being said, the AIDS crisis is threatening humans like no other. In countries such as Botswana, close to half the population of pregnant women is infected. Of great concern, the disease is now prevalent among women and teenage girls, threatening not only their lives but those of their offspring. Efforts to control this spread are quite abysmal, albeit well intentioned. Likewise, the death of a child every 15 seconds from diarrheal disease is not being addressed with the same vigor as SARS, even though the risk of dying from the latter for most people is similar to being struck by lightning. In the end, it is the economy and politics that dictate health spending. Image and perception are everything. While deaths mount among women and children from AIDS and other infections, the potential to intervene with a low-risk natural concept of probiotics seemed all too distant. As evidence mounts of the attributes of certain probiotic strains to treat diarrhea and reduce the risk of urogenital and other diseases, the developing world has failed to embrace it, support its evaluation and implementation, and take it to where it is needed the most. In this review, the case for and against probiotics for urogenital and intestinal infections is presented based on current literature. The story is far from complete, but the potential for improving the health of the mother and child is significant. United Nations and World Health Organization guidelines have now been developed to vanquish the unproved marketing hype products that have given probiotics a bad name. It is now up to science to deliver the remedies, and to society to make sure that only proven products reach the marketplace and the people in most need.
Effect of treatment with exogenous interferon, polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid, or polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid-poly-L-lysine complex on Herpesvirus hominis infections in mice.	The effect of treatment with exogenous interferon was compared with those of two interferon inducers, polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid [poly(I) . poly(C)] and poly(I) . poly(C)-poly-L-lysine complex [poly(ICLC)], in three model Herpesvirus hominis type 2 infections of mice. After intraperitoneal inoculation of H. hominis type 2, all drugs significantly protected animals against death and increased the mean day of death when administered as late as 48 hr after viral inoculation. With intranasal inoculation of H. hominis type 2, pretreatment with poly (I) . poly (C) and poly (ICLC) increased the mean day of death; however, no drug prevented death. In mice inoculated intravaginally, local treatment with exogenous interferon or poly(I) . poly(C) appeared to reduce the mean titers of virus in genital secretions and resulted in earlier clearance of infection in some animals. Systemic treatment of genital H. hominis type 2 infections with all drugs resulted in significant numbers of infected animals surviving the infection, although the mean titers of virus in genital secretions were unchanged. Therapeutic efficacy varied depending on the route of viral inoculation.
The utility of wet prep in predicting Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis.	Diagnosing Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) and Neisseria gonorrhoeae (NG) cervical infections can be difficult in the Emergency Department without real-time testing, as historical and physical elements are known to be unreliable.
Association of viridans group streptococci from pregnant women with bacterial vaginosis and upper genital tract infection.	The prevalence and role of viridans group streptococci in the female genital tract have not been well described. In this study of 482 pregnant women, 147 (30%) were culture positive for viridans group streptococci. Of 392 women with predominant Lactobacillus morphotypes by Gram stain (normal), 110 (28%) were colonized with viridans group streptococci, compared with 37 (41%) of 90 women with bacterial vaginosis (BV) (P = 0.02). To determine whether any species were associated with BV, 177 consecutively isolated viridans group streptococci from the vagina were identified to the species level by using the Facklam scheme. The most frequently isolated species from the vagina was Streptococcus intermedius (13%), followed by Streptococcus acidominimus (6%), Streptococcus constellatus (5%), Streptococcus sanguis II (4%), Streptococcus mitis (2%), Streptococcus salivarius (2%), Streptococcus morbillorum (2%), Streptococcus sanguis I (1%), Streptococcus mutans (0.2%), and Streptococcus uberis (0.2%) with an average of 1.2 species per woman. The distribution of the species among women with BV compared with normal women was not significantly different, with the exception of two species which were associated with BV: S. acidominimus (18% versus 3%, P less than 0.001) and S. morbillorum (6% versus 0.7%, P = 0.005). Amniotic fluid and placenta cultures yielded 54 isolates: S. sanguis II (13 isolates), S. acidominimus (9 isolates), S. intermedius (10 isolates), S. constellatus (3 isolates), S. mitis (4 isolates), S. sanguis I (4 isolates), S. morbillorum (5 isolates), S. mutans (2 isolates), S. uberis (1 isolate), mannitol-positive S. intermedius (1 isolate), and 2 isolates which were not classified. The distribution of species isolated from the upper genital tract was not a reflection of the distribution in the lower genital tract. Dextran-producing species of viridans group streptococci may have a greater pathogenic potential in the placenta than the non-dextran-producing species.
Some aspects of the diagnosis of specific vaginal infections in the Rotterdam STD clinic population.	We studied specific vaginal infections in 351 consecutive women who visited the Rotterdam STD clinic. Prostitutes less often had vaginal or vulvar complaints than non-prostitutes (Fisher test, p less than 0.01), but more often had abnormal discharge (Fisher test, p less than 0.001). Normal secretions were found in 52% of the women. Clue cell-positive discharge (CCPD) was by far the most prevalent vaginal disease entity (32%). The wet mount showed pseudo-hyphae in 14 women (4%) and Trichomonas vaginalis was detected in 20 (6%). Microscopy (normal saline, no KOH 10%) had an overall sensitivity of 18% in the diagnosis of vaginal yeast infection. The sensitivity substantially rose with the 'degree' of infection. In the case of trichomoniasis the sensitivity was 55%. The rates of positive cultures of Candida species, T. vaginalis, N. gonorrhoeae and C. trachomatis were 21%, 13%, 9% and 10% respectively. Symptoms and signs were not of much help in the correct classification of the different diagnostic categories due to considerable overlap. However, curdy secretions are indicative of candidal infection. Tests for anaerobic overgrowth showed a 99% correct classification of normal secretions, which implies that smelling the vaginal secretions on the withdrawn speculum is a major diagnostic office procedure.
Cervical mucus before and after cryotherapy of benign changes in the vaginal part of the cervix uteri]	Bacteriological findings obtained by the Cryo-method of cervical smears before and after the treatment of cervicitis and ectopia in the vaginal part of the uterine cervix of 64 women revealed certain essential changes. Before the Cryo-therapy, pathogenic microorganisms were verified in 49 patients (76.56%), while saprophytic flora was isolated from 15 patients (23.45%). After the treatment, this proportion was significantly changed: saprophytic flora was isolated from 45 patients (70.34%), while pathogenic flora continued persisting in 19 patients (29.67%). Eight weeks following the treatment, instead of a dense, non-elastic, opaque, cellular secretion before the Cryo-therapy, a clear elastic, acellular mucus was recorded.
Multicentric papillomavirus infection of the female genital tract. A study of morphologic pattern, possible risk factors and viral prevalence.	We have investigated 103 biopsy specimens obtained from 50 women (average 28.1 years, range 16-66) with multicentric condylomatosis of the genital tract, including the uterine cervix (48 samples), the vagina (23), and the vulva (32). Each patient had at least 2 biopsies. A positive in situ hybridization for a Human Papilloma Virus (HPV) cocktail was observed in samples from 38 patients: in these multiplicity of lesions regarded the cervix and vulva (22 cases), cervix and vagina (12), vulva and vagina (1), cervix, vulva and vagina (3). Viral types 6,11 were more prevalent in simple condylomata. Both low- and high grade lesions of cervix, vagina, and vulva showed prevalence of types 16, 18 and 31, 33, 35. Signaling for more than one probe cocktail was detected in 14 (13.6%) samples. Partner's condylomatosis was referred to by a sizeable minority of patients. It is concluded that the spectrum of HPV infection in the female genital tract reflects a multiplicity of factors, including involved viral type and site, immunitary reaction of the host, perpetration or reactivation of latent infections.
