Evolutionary aspects of cytochrome c oxidase.	The presence of additional subunits in cytochrome oxidase distinguish the multicellular eukaryotic enzyme from that of a simple unicellular bacterial enzyme. The number of these additional subunits increases with increasing evolutionary stage of the organism. Subunits I-III of the eukaryotic enzyme are related to the three bacterial subunits, and they are encoded on mitochondrial DNA. The additional subunits are nuclear encoded. Experimental evidences are presented here to indicate that the lower enzymatic activity of the mammalian enzyme is due to the presence of nuclear-coded subunits. Dissociation of some of the nuclear-coded subunits (e.g. VIa) by laurylmaltoside and anions increased the activity of the rat liver enzyme to a value similar to that of the bacterial enzyme. Further, it is shown that the intraliposomal nucleotides influence the kinetics of ferrocytochrome c oxidation by the reconstituted enzyme from bovine heart but not from P. denitrificans. The regulatory function attributed to the nuclear-coded subunits of mammalian cytochrome c oxidase is also demonstrated by the tissue-specific response of the reconstituted enzyme from bovine heart but not from bovine liver to intraliposomal ADP. These enzymes from bovine heart and liver differ in the amino acid sequences of subunits VIa, VIIa, and VIII. The results presented here are taken to indicate a regulation of cytochrome c oxidase activity by nuclear-coded subunits which act like receptors for allosteric effectors and influence the catalytic activity of the core enzyme via conformational changes.
Deltapsi and DeltapH are equivalent driving forces for proton transport through isolated F(0) complexes of ATP synthases.	The membrane-embedded F(0) part of ATP synthases is responsible for ion translocation during ATP synthesis and hydrolysis. Here, we describe an in vitro system for measuring proton fluxes through F(0) complexes by fluorescence changes of the entrapped fluorophore pyranine. Starting from purified enzyme, the F(0) part was incorporated unidirectionally into phospholipid vesicles. This allowed analysis of proton transport in either synthesis or hydrolysis direction with Deltapsi or DeltapH as driving forces. The system displayed a high signal-to-noise ratio and can be accurately quantified. In contrast to ATP synthesis in the Escherichia coli F(1)F(0) holoenzyme, no significant difference was observed in the efficiency of DeltapH or Deltapsi as driving forces for H(+)-transport through F(0). Transport rates showed linear dependency on the driving force. Proton transport in hydrolysis direction was about 2400 H(+)/(s x F(0)) at Deltapsi of 120 mV, which is approximately twice as fast as in synthesis direction. The chloroplast enzyme was faster and catalyzed H(+)-transport at initial rates of 6300 H(+)/(s x F(0)) under similar conditions. The new method is an ideal tool for detailed kinetic investigations of the ion transport mechanism of ATP synthases from various organisms.
Circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance studies on the complexation of valinomycin with calcium.	Complexation of valinomycin (VM) with the divalent cation Ca2+ in a lipophilic solvent, acetonitrile (CH3-CN), has been studied by using circular dichroism and proton and carbon-13 nuclear magnetic resonance (1H NMR and 13C NMR). From analyses of the spectral data, it is concluded that VM forms a 2:1 (peptide-ion-peptide) sandwich complex with Ca2+, at low concentration of VM. At moderate concentrations of the salt, in addition to the sandwich complex, an equimolar (1:1) complex different from those observed for potassium and sodium is also observed. At very large concentrations of the calcium salt, the data suggested a complex with a conformation similar to that of the free VM in polar solvents. Possible conformations for the sandwich and the equimolar VM-calcium complexes are proposed.
