Chromophore-protein-water interactions in the L intermediate of bacteriorhodopsin: FTIR study of the photoreaction of L at 80 K.	Using FTIR spectroscopy, perturbations of several residues and internal water molecules have been detected when light transforms all-trans bacteriorhodopsin (BR) to its L intermediate having a 13-cis chromophore. Illumination of L at 80 K results in an intermediate L' absorbing around 550 nm. L' thermally converts to the original BR only at >130 K. In this study, we used the light-induced transformation of L to L' at 80 K to identify some amino acid residues and water molecules that closely interact with the chromophore and distinguish them from those residues not affected by the photoreaction. The L minus L' FTIR difference spectrum shows that the chromophore in L' is in the all-trans configuration. The perturbed states of Asp96 and Val49 and of the environment along the aliphatic part of the retinal and Lys216 seen in L are not affected by the L --> L' photoreaction. On the other hand, the environments of the Schiff base of the chromophore, of Asp115, and of water molecules close to Asp85 returned in L' to their state in which they originally had existed in BR. The water molecules that are affected by the mutations of Thr46 and Asp96 also change to a different state in the L --> L' transition, as indicated by transformation of a water O-H vibrational band at 3497 cm-1 in L into an intense peak at 3549 cm-1 in L'. Notably, this change of water bands in the L --> L' transition at 80 K is entirely different from the changes observed in the BR --> K photoreaction at the same temperature, which does not show such intense bands. These results suggest that these water molecules move closer to the Schiff base as a hydrogen bonding cluster in L and L', presumably to stabilize its protonated state during the BR to L transition. They may contribute to the structural constraints that prevent L from returning to the initial BR upon illumination at 80 K.
Design and characterization of a highly selective peptide inhibitor of the small conductance calcium-activated K+ channel, SkCa2.	Apamin-sensitive small conductance calcium-activated potassium channels (SKCa1-3) mediate the slow afterhyperpolarization in neurons, but the molecular identity of the channel has not been defined because of the lack of specific inhibitors. Here we describe the structure-based design of a selective inhibitor of SKCa2. Leiurotoxin I (Lei) and PO5, peptide toxins that share the RXCQ motif, potently blocked human SKCa2 and SKCa3 but not SKCa1, whereas maurotoxin, Pi1, Tskappa, and PO1 were ineffective. Lei blocked these channels more potently than PO5 because of the presence of Ala(1), Phe(2), and Met(7). By replacing Met(7) in the RXCQ motif of Lei with the shorter, unnatural, positively charged diaminobutanoic acid (Dab), we generated Lei-Dab(7), a selective SKCa2 inhibitor (K(d) = 3.8 nm) that interacts with residues in the external vestibule of the channel. SKCa3 was rendered sensitive to Lei-Dab(7) by replacing His(521) with the corresponding SKCa2 residue (Asn(367)). Intracerebroventricular injection of Lei-Dab(7) into mice resulted in no gross central nervous system toxicity at concentrations that specifically blocked SKCa2 homotetramers. Lei-Dab(7) will be a useful tool to investigate the functional role of SKCa2 in mammalian tissues.
Agonist-induced phosphorylation of the serotonin 5-HT2C receptor regulates its interaction with multiple PDZ protein 1.	Multiple PDZ domain protein 1 (MUPP1), a putative scaffolding protein containing 13 PSD-95, Dlg, ZO-1 (PDZ) domains, was identified by a yeast two-hybrid screen as a serotonin2C receptor (5-HT2C R)-interacting protein (Ullmer, C., Schmuck, K., Figge, A., and Lubbert, H. (1998) FEBS Lett. 424, 63-68). MUPP1 PDZ domain 10 (PDZ 10) associates with Ser458-Ser-Val at the carboxyl-terminal tail of the 5-HT2C R. Both Ser458 and Ser459 are phosphorylated upon serotonin stimulation of the receptor (Backstrom, J. R., Price, R. D., Reasoner, D. T., and Sanders-Bush, E. (2000) J. Biol. Chem. 275, 23620-23626). To investigate whether phosphorylation of these serines in the receptor regulates MUPP1 interaction, we used several approaches. First, we substituted the serines in the receptor carboxyl tail with aspartates to mimic phosphorylation (S458D, S459D, or S458D/S459D). Pull-down assays demonstrated that Asp mutations at Ser458 significantly decreased receptor tail interaction with PDZ 10. Next, serotonin treatment of 5-HT2C R/3T3 cells resulted in a dose-dependent reduction of receptor interaction with PDZ 10. Effects of serotonin on receptor-PDZ 10 binding could be blocked by pretreatment with a receptor antagonist. Alkaline phosphatase treatment reverses the effect of serotonin, indicating that agonist-induced phosphorylation at Ser458 resulted in a loss of MUPP1 association and also revealed a significant amount of basal phosphorylation of the receptor. We conclude that 5-HT2C R interaction with MUPP1 is dynamically regulated by phosphorylation at Ser458.
Endogenous cholesterol synthesis is associated with VLDL-2 apoB-100 production in healthy humans.	Subjects with high plasma cholesterol levels exhibit a high production of VLDL apolipoprotein B-100 (apoB-100), suggesting that cholesterol is a mediator for VLDL production. The objective of the study was to examine whether endogenous cholesterol synthesis, reflected by the lathosterol-cholesterol ratio (L-C ratio), affects the secretory rates of different VLDL subfractions. Ten healthy subjects were studied after overnight fasting. During a 10 h primed, constant infusion of 13C-valine (15 micromol/kg/h), enrichment was determined in apoB-100 from ultracentrifugally isolated VLDL-1 and VLDL-2 by gas chromatography mass spectrometry. The synthesis rates of VLDL-1 apoB-100 and VLDL-2 apoB-100, catabolism, and transfer were estimated by compartmental analysis. Mean VLDL-1 apoB-100 pool size was 90 +/- 15 mg, and mean VLDL-2 apoB-100 pool size was 111 +/- 14 mg. Absolute synthesis rate of VLDL-1 apoB-100 was 649 +/- 127 mg/day and 353 +/- 59 mg/day for VLDL-2 apoB-100. There was a strong association between the absolute synthesis rate of VLDL-2 apoB-100 and L-C ratio (r 2 = 0.61, P < 0.01). In contrast, no correlation was observed between L-C ratio and absolute synthesis rate of VLDL-1 apoB-100 (r 2 = 0.302, P = 0.09). In conclusion, these data provide additional support for an independent regulation of VLDL-1 apoB-100 and VLDL-2 apoB-100 production. Endogenous cholesterol synthesis is correlated only with the VLDL-2 apoB-100 production.
First case of a single heterozygote of an abnormal hemoglobin, Hb Stanmore, [beta111(G13)Val-->Ala].	We describe a hemoglobin beta-chain mutant detected incidentally in an unusual profile of glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) measured by ion-exchange HPLC. Analysis of intact globin by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) and peptide analysis by on-line HPLC-ESI-MS-MS revealed the substitution, [beta111(G13)Val-->Ala], which was confirmed by DNA analysis. This was the second case of Hb Stanmore. As the first case combined beta(0)-thalassemia, and the family study in that case showed no case of Hb Stanmore without combined thalassemia, the case presented here is the first case of single heterozygote, and the first Japanese case. Hb Stanmore is isoelectrophoretically silent with only mild clinical symptoms, although stability by isopropanol test was positive.
Ternary systems of naproxen with hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin and aminoacids.	The purpose of the present study was to investigate the combined effect of hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin and different aminoacids (L-lysine, LYS; L-valine, VAL; L-iso-leucine, LEU; and L-arginine, ARG) on the solubility of naproxen, a poorly water-soluble anti-inflammatory drug. Aqueous solubilities of naproxen in binary and ternary systems with hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin and each aminoacid were determined. The pH was measured in all solubility studies and its role on drug solubility variation was evaluated. Arginine was the most effective aminoacid in improving drug solubility and the only one which showed a synergistic effect when used in combination with hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin. In contrast, some reduction with respect to the theoretical drug solubility (i.e. the sum of the solubilities in the presence of cyclodextrin and aminoacid separately) was observed in ternary combinations with the other aminoacids. This occurred also in the case of lysine, despite the higher solubility of its ternary system in comparison with the binary cyclodextrin complex at pH 7. Phase-solubility experiments showed that the ternary system with arginine (pH approximately 7) exhibited a stability constant 3.6 times higher and was about 5.5 times more effective in improving drug solubility than the binary complex in buffered (pH approximately 7) aqueous solutions. These results demonstrated that the high increase in the drug solubility shown by ternary systems with arginine was not simply due to a favorable pH change but to multicomponent complex formation. Solid products of naproxen with hydroxypropyl-beta-cyclodextrin, and/or arginine, prepared by different methods, were characterized by Differential Scanning Calorimetry (DSC), Hot Stage Microscopy (HSM) and Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM).
Stimulation of prothrombinase activity by the nonapeptide Thr-Trp-Ala-Arg-Asn-Ser-Tyr-Asn-Val, a segment of a plant thionin.	Pyrularia thionin (PT) is a basic 47 amino acid peptide isolated from the nuts of Pyrularia pubera. Its structure and properties have been studied in some detail. Its receptor site is a domain of membrane phosphatidyl serine (PS), where it binds with a relatively high specificity. A segment of its covalent structure, the nonapeptide Thr-Trp-Ala-Arg-Asn-Ser-Tyr-Asn-Val, designated serine nonapeptide (SNP), corresponds to amino acids 7-15 of the thionin, except for the position 12 (Ser), which substitutes for Cys, to give stability. This peptide represents what we consider to be the active site of the thionin, and it also binds to PS domains, but less tightly than thionin does. The peptide has an effect on the prothrombinase assay using the chromophore S2238 to measure the thrombin produced by the prothrombinase complex. It is shown that SNP stimulates the prothrombinase complex activity, instead of inhibiting it, as would be expected if it simply covered the PS sites on the membrane of erythrocyte ghosts, used in the prothrombinase assay. SNP appears to substitute for Va in the prothrombinase complex reaction, in a Ca(2+) independent manner, being even more effective in the absence than in the presence of ghosts. In the clotting system, SNP can also substitute for Factor Va.
His92Ala mutation in ribonuclease T1 induces segmental flexibility. An X-ray study.	In the genetically mutated ribonuclease T1 His92Ala (RNase T1 His92Ala), deletion of the active site His92 imidazole leads to an inactive enzyme. Attempts to crystallize RNase T1 His92Ala under conditions used for wild-type enzyme failed, and a modified protocol produced two crystal forms, one obtained with polyethylene glycol (PEG), and the other with phosphate as precipitants. Space groups are identical to wild-type RNase T1, P2(1)2(1)2(1), but unit cell dimensions differ significantly, associated with different molecular packings in the crystals; they are a = 31.04 A, b = 62.31 A, c = 43.70 A for PEG-derived crystals and a = 32.76 A, b = 55.13 A, c = 43.29 A for phosphate-derived crystals, compared to a = 48.73 A, b = 46.39 A, c = 41.10 A for uncomplexed wild-type RNase T1. The crystal structures were solved by molecular replacement and refined by stereochemically restrained least-squares methods based on Fo greater than or equal to sigma (Fo) of 3712 reflections in the resolution range 10 to 2.2 A (R = 15.8%) for the PEG-derived crystal and based on Fo greater than or equal to sigma (Fo) of 6258 reflections in the resolution range 10 to 1.8 A (R = 14.8%) for the phosphate-derived crystal. The His92Ala mutation deletes the hydrogen bond His92N epsilon H ... O Asn99 of wild-type RNase T1, thereby inducing structural flexibility and conformational changes in the loop 91 to 101 which is located at the periphery of the globular enzyme. This loop is stabilized in the wild-type protein by two beta-turns of which only one is retained in the crystals obtained with PEG. In the crystals grown with phosphate as precipitant, both beta-turns are deleted and the segment Gly94-Ala95-Ser96-Gly97 is so disordered that it is not seen at all. In addition, the geometry of the guanine binding site in both mutant studies is different from "empty" wild-type RNase T1 but similar to that found in complexes with guanosine derivatives: the Glu46 side-chain carboxylate hydrogen bonds to Tyr42 O eta; water molecules that are present in the guanine binding site of "empty" wild-type RNase T1 are displaced; the Asn43-Asn44 peptide is flipped such that phi/psi-angles of Asn44 are in alpha L-conformation (that is observed in wild-type enzyme when guanine is bound).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Binding of an antiviral agent to a sensitive and a resistant human rhinovirus. Computer simulation studies with sampling of amino acid side-chain conformation. I. Mapping the rotamers of residue 188 of viral protein 1.	The mutation of valine 188 to leucine in the viral protein 1 of human rhinovirus 14 renders the virus resistant to certain antiviral compounds. Thermodynamic-cycle perturbation theory provides a means of calculating the difference in the binding free energies of an antiviral compound to the wild-type virus and to the mutant virus. In calculating the relevant free-energy differences in molecular dynamics simulations, it is important to sample the multiple rotational isomers of residue 188 correctly. In general, these rotamers will not be fully sampled during a single molecular dynamics simulation. However, the contributions of all the rotamers to the free-energy differences associated with mutation of residue 188 may be considered explicitly once they have been identified and their relative free energies determined. Therefore, we describe here the mapping of the rotamers of residue 188 by steric-bump search and energy minimization techniques, and by the computation of potentials of mean force (p.m.f.s.) using umbrella sampling. The usefulness, validity and efficiency of these methods of examining rotameric states is discussed. Adiabatic mapping by energy minimization was found to be unreliable for this residue due to the small magnitude of its interactions with the surrounding protein atoms. Ambiguities in the adiabatic maps were resolved by computing p.m.f.s. The p.m.f. for valine 188 in the unliganded wild-type virus shows a minimum corresponding to the crystallographically observed conformation of valine 188. The p.m.f.s. for valine 188 in the liganded virus and for leucine 188 in the unliganded mutant virus suggest that the experimentally observed conformations may be interpreted as averages of a number of conformations corresponding to those at the minima in the p.m.f.s. The calculations suggest also that the conformation of leucine 188 may change when the ligand binds. The use of the calculated p.m.f.s. to compute the difference in the free energy of binding of an antiviral compound to the wild-type and mutant rhinoviruses is described in the accompanying article.
Binding of an antiviral agent to a sensitive and a resistant human rhinovirus. Computer simulation studies with sampling of amino acid side-chain conformations. II. Calculation of free-energy differences by thermodynamic integration.	Thermodynamic-cycle perturbation theory and molecular dynamics simulations were used to calculate the difference in the free energy of binding of the antiviral compound WIN53338 to the wild-type human rhinovirus 14 and to a drug-resistant mutant of the virus in which valine 188 of the viral protein 1 is mutated to leucine. Because of the difficulty of achieving adequate sampling of all of the rotational isomers of amino acid side-chains in molecular dynamics simulations, an explicit treatment of the effects of the existence of multiple rotational isomers of residue 188 on the calculated free energies was used. The rotamers of residue 188 were first mapped by steric and energetic techniques as described in the accompanying article. Thermodynamic integration was then carried out during simulations of the virus, both with and without the antiviral compound bound, by mutating residue 188 while restraining its side-chain to one conformation. The contributions of the other rotamers of residue 188 to the free-energy changes for this mutation were then added to those calculated by thermodynamic integration as correction factors. Binding of WIN53338 to the wild-type virus was calculated to be favored over binding to the mutant virus by 1.7(+/- 3.0) kcal/mol. This is consistent with experimental data which, if differences in activity are assumed to be due to differences in binding, indicate that the binding affinity of WIN53338 for the wild-type virus is at least 0.15 to 1.7 kcal/mol greater than for the mutant virus. Thermodynamic integration was also performed in the conventional manner without restraints and was found to give less accurate results.
Neuronal calcium sensor protein visinin-like protein-3 interacts with microsomal cytochrome b5 in a Ca2+-dependent manner.	Visinin-like protein-3, which is one of the neuronal calcium sensors, has been shown to be mainly expressed in cerebellar Purkinje cells, but cellular function of this protein has not yet been elucidated. We examined the tissue distribution of murine visinin-like protein-3 transcripts using real-time reverse transcription-PCR. Visinin-like protein-3 mRNA was found to be expressed in peripheral tissues. Particularly, the expression of the transcript in the thymus was significantly higher than in other peripheral tissues. In addition, B6RVTC1 thymoma cells robustly expressed visinin-like protein-3 mRNA. To identify a target protein of visinin-like protein-3, we performed a pull-down experiment using glutathione S-transferase-tagged visinin-like protein-3 and two-dimensional electrophoresis. We demonstrated that microsomal cytochrome b(5) was a Ca(2+)-dependent binding partner of visinin-like protein-3. In a co-immunoprecipitation experiment, it was observed that hippocalcin, as well as visinin-like protein-3, could interact with cytochrome b(5). Furthermore, we confirmed that the sequence Val(114)-Tyr(127) at the C-terminal tail of cytochrome b(5) is the minimal structural requirement for binding to visinin-like protein-3. In addition, the loop His(19)-His(25) at the N terminus of visinin-like protein-3 is essential for binding to cytochrome b(5). Microsomal cytochrome b(5) was also shown to be a potential activator of cytochrome P450. The present findings raise the possibility that visinin-like protein-3 may link Ca(2+) signaling to the machinery of microsomal monooxygenase complex composed of cytochrome b(5), cytochrome P450, and some reductases. This report provides the first evidence of an interaction between visinin-like protein-3 and microsomal cytochrome b(5).
The residue 129 polymorphism in human prion protein does not confer susceptibility to Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease by altering the structure or global stability of PrPC.	There are two common forms of prion protein (PrP) in humans, with either methionine or valine at position 129. This polymorphism is a powerful determinant of the genetic susceptibility of humans toward both sporadic and acquired forms of prion disease and restricts propagation of particular prion strains. Despite its key role, we have no information on the effect of this mutation on the structure, stability, folding, and dynamics of the cellular form of PrP (PrP(C)). Here, we show that the mutation has no measurable effect on the folding, dynamics, and stability of PrP(C). Our data indicate that the 129M/V polymorphism does not affect prion propagation through its effect on PrP(C); rather, its influence is likely to be downstream in the disease mechanism. We infer that the M/V effect is mediated through the conformation or stability of disease-related PrP (PrP(Sc)) or intermediates or on the kinetics of their formation.
FXYD7, mapping of functional sites involved in endoplasmic reticulum export, association with and regulation of Na,K-ATPase.	The brain-specific FXYD7 is a member of the recently defined FXYD family that associates with the alpha1-beta1 Na,K-ATPase isozyme and induces an about 2-fold decrease in its apparent K+ affinity. By using the Xenopus oocyte as an expression system, we have investigated the role of conserved and FXYD7-specific amino acids in the cellular routing of FXYD7 and in its association with and regulation of Na,K-ATPase. In contrast to FXYD2 and FXYD4, the studies on FXYD7 show that the conserved FXYD motif in the extracytoplasmic domain is not involved in the efficient association of FXYD7 with Na,K-ATPase. On the other hand, the conserved Gly40 and Gly29, located on the same face of the transmembrane helix, were found to be implicated both in the association with and the regulation of Na,K-ATPase. Mutational analysis of FXYD7-specific regions revealed the presence of an ER export signal at the end of the cytoplasmic tail. Deletion of a C-terminal valine residue in FXYD7 significantly delayed and decreased its O-glycosylation processing and retarded the rate of its cell surface expression. This result indicates that the C-terminal valine residue is involved in the rapid and selective ER export of FXYD7, which could explain the observed post-translational association of FXYD7 with Na,K-ATPase. In conclusion, our study on FXYD7 provides new information on structural determinants of general importance for FXYD protein action. Moreover, FXYD7 is identified as a new member of proteins with a regulated ER export, which suggests that, among FXYD proteins, FXYD7 has a particular regulatory function in brain.
Tight junction protein Par6 interacts with an evolutionarily conserved region in the amino terminus of PALS1/stardust.	Tight junctions are the structures in mammalian epithelial cells that separate the apical and basolateral membranes and may also be important in the establishment of cell polarity. Two evolutionarily conserved multiprotein complexes, Crumbs-PALS1 (Stardust)-PATJ and Cdc42-Par6-Par3-atypical protein kinase C, have been implicated in the assembly of tight junctions and in polarization of Drosophila melanogaster epithelia. These two complexes have been linked physically and functionally by an interaction between PALS1 and Par6. Here we identify an evolutionarily conserved region in the amino terminus of PALS1 as the Par6 binding site and identify valine and aspartic acid residues in this region as essential for interacting with the PDZ domain of Par6. We have also characterized, in more detail, the amino terminus of Drosophila Stardust and demonstrate that the interaction mechanism between Stardust and Drosophila Par6 is evolutionarily conserved. Par6 interferes with PATJ in binding PALS1, and these two interactions do not appear to function synergistically. Taken together, these results define the molecular mechanisms linking two conserved polarity complexes.
Importance of valine 567 in substrate recognition and oxidation by neuronal nitric oxide synthase.	Nitric oxide (NO) is synthesised by a two-step oxidation of -arginine (L-Arg) in the active site of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) with formation of an intermediate, N omega-hydroxy-L-Arg (NOHA). Crystal structures of NOSs have shown the importance of an active-site Val567 residue (numbered for rat neuronal NOS, nNOS) interacting with non-amino acid substrates. To investigate the role of this Val residue in substrate recognition and NO-formation activity by nNOS, we generated and purified four Val567 mutants of nNOS, Val567Leu, Val567Phe, Val567Arg and Val567Glu. We characterized these proteins and tested their ability to generate NO from the oxidation of natural substrates L-Arg and NOHA, and from N-hydroxyguanidines previously identified as alternative substrates for nNOS. The Val567Leu mutant displayed lower NO formation activities than the wild type (WT) in the presence of all tested compounds. Surprisingly, the Val567Phe mutant formed low amounts of NO only from NOHA. These two mutants displayed lower affinity for L-Arg and NOHA than the WT protein. Val576Glu and Val567Arg mutants were much less stable and did not lead to any formation of NO. These results suggest that Val567 is an important residue for preserving the integrity of the active site, for substrate binding, and subsequently for NO-formation in nNOS.
Studies on the methyl isocyanate adducts with globin.	Isocyanates such as methylisocyanate (MIC), an intermediate in the synthesis of carbamate pesticides, or diisocyanates, used in the production of plastics, are highly reactive toxic compounds that spontaneously bind to biological macromolecules. In vivo formation of stable adducts with blood protein globin offers possibilities for biomonitoring of internal exposure to various reactive species. Thus, biomonitoring of the isocyanates through determination of their specific adducts with globin is a challenge. In this study, we characterized the adducts formed in human globin upon treatment with 100-fold molar excess of MIC. The globin was subject to enzymatic hydrolysis with pronase, and the hydrolysate was analysed by high performance liquid chromatography with positive atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometric detection (HPLC/APCI-MS). The two major MIC adducts were those with N-terminal Val and side-chain of Lys, as confirmed by comparison with the synthetic standards. About 20 other adducts were observed, and several of them were tentatively identified using their MS and MS/MS spectra. Whereas detection of the adducts with Tyr and His was expected, the adducts with Trp and Phe, and a Lys adduct containing two MIC moieties, were probably analytical artifacts resulting from the transcarbamoylation during globin hydrolysis rather than products of direct carbamoylation. The other detected products were MIC-Val-His, derived from the N-terminal dipeptide of globin beta-chain, and dipeptides consisting of MIC-Lys attached to Gly, Val, Leu, Thr, and Glu. Failure to detect the corresponding non-modified dipeptides suggests that the pronase action may be hampered by the amino acid modification. MIC is known as a metabolic intermediate of the industrial solvents N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) and N-methylformamide (MF) in humans and rats. The HPLC/APCI-MS analysis of globin from rats injected with DMF or MF, 1000 mg/kg, revealed the presence of the MIC adducts with both Val and Lys. The level of the Val adduct in globin from the DMF-dosed rats, determined using Edman degradation and GC/MS, was ca. 40 nmol/g, which is a level common in workers occupationally exposed to DMF. This suggests that also the Lys adduct in such human globin samples can be feasible to analysis and is therefore considered for further studies as a potential biomarker of exposure to DMF.
N-Boc-L-valine-connected amidomonophosphane rhodium(I) catalyst for asymmetric arylation of N-tosylarylimines with arylboroxines.	A catalytic asymmetric arylation of sterically tuned imines with arylboroxines was developed by using N-Boc-l-valine-connected amidomonophosphane rhodium(I) catalyst in n-PrOH. The TMS group used for the steric tuning of imines is convertible to other functionalities that are applicable as a key foothold for the carbon-carbon bond-forming coupling reactions.
Procedure for monitoring exposure to sulfur mustard based on modified edman degradation of globin.	A procedure for the modified Edman degradation of globin for determination of sulfur mustard adducts to the N-terminal valine residue in human hemoglobin has been developed for use under field laboratory conditions. The minimum detectable exposure level of human blood (in vitro) to sulfur mustard using this procedure is 100 nM. The interindividual and intraindividual variabilities of the procedure were acceptable (standard deviation < 10% and < 20%, respectively). The procedure could be properly set up and carried out in another laboratory within one working day, demonstrating its robustness.
Inhibitor coordination interactions in the binuclear manganese cluster of arginase.	Arginase is a manganese metalloenzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of L-arginine to form L-ornithine and urea. The structure and stability of the binuclear manganese cluster are critical for catalytic activity as it activates the catalytic nucleophile, metal-bridging hydroxide ion, and stabilizes the tetrahedral intermediate and its flanking states. Here, we report X-ray structures of a series of inhibitors bound to the active site of arginase, and each inhibitor exploits a different mode of coordination with the Mn(2+)(2) cluster. Specifically, we have studied the binding of fluoride ion (F(-); an uncompetitive inhibitor) and L-arginine, L-valine, dinor-N(omega)-hydroxy-L-arginine, descarboxy-nor-N(omega)-hydroxy-L-arginine, and dehydro-2(S)-amino-6-boronohexanoic acid. Some inhibitors, such as fluoride ion, dinor-N(omega)-hydroxy-L-arginine, and dehydro-2(S)-amino-6-boronohexanoic acid, cause the net addition of one ligand to the Mn(2+)(2) cluster. Other inhibitors, such as descarboxy-nor-N(omega)-hydroxy-L-arginine, simply displace the metal-bridging hydroxide ion of the native enzyme and do not cause any net change in the metal coordination polyhedra. The highest affinity inhibitors displace the metal-bridging hydroxide ion (and sometimes occupy a Mn(2+)(A) site found vacant in the native enzyme) and maintain a conserved array of hydrogen bonds with their alpha-amino and -carboxylate groups.
Spectral deconvolution of chemical mixtures by covariance NMR.	A method is presented for the deconvolution of the NMR spectrum of a chemical mixture without requiring physical separation of its components. The method, which is termed "Demix", is based on a principal component analysis of a series of one-dimensional (1D) spectra that are statistically modulated during preparation and TOCSY mixing periods. The largest principal components correspond to the 1D NMR spectra of the scalar J-coupled spin networks of the individual components of the mixture. The method is demonstrated for aqueous mixtures of the amino acids Glu, Leu, Lys, and Val.
Computational protein design is a challenge for implicit solvation models.	Increasingly complex schemes for representing solvent effects in an implicit fashion are being used in computational analyses of biological macromolecules. These schemes speed up the calculations by orders of magnitude and are assumed to compromise little on essential features of the solvation phenomenon. In this work we examine this assumption. Five implicit solvation models, a surface area-based empirical model, two models that approximate the generalized Born treatment and a finite difference Poisson-Boltzmann method are challenged in situations differing from those where these models were calibrated. These situations are encountered in automatic protein design procedures, whose job is to select sequences, which stabilize a given protein 3D structure, from a large number of alternatives. To this end we evaluate the energetic cost of burying amino acids in thousands of environments with different solvent exposures belonging, respectively, to decoys built with random sequences and to native protein crystal structures. In addition we perform actual sequence design calculations. Except for the crudest surface area-based procedure, all the tested models tend to favor the burial of polar amino acids in the protein interior over nonpolar ones, a behavior that leads to poor performance in protein design calculations. We show, on the other hand, that three of the examined models are nonetheless capable of discriminating between the native fold and many nonnative alternatives, a test commonly used to validate force fields. It is concluded that protein design is a particularly challenging test for implicit solvation models because it requires accurate estimates of the solvation contribution of individual residues. This contrasts with native recognition, which depends less on solvation and more on other nonbonded contributions.
Identification of residues within human glycoprotein VI involved in the binding to collagen: evidence for the existence of distinct binding sites.	Glycoprotein VI (GPVI) has a crucial role in platelet responses to collagen. Still, little is known about its interaction with its ligands. In binding assays using soluble or cell-expressed human GPVI, we observed that (i) collagen, and the GPVI-specific ligands collagen-related peptides (CRP) and convulxin, competed with one another for the binding to GPVI and (ii) monoclonal antibodies directed against the extracellular part of the human receptor displayed selective inhibitory properties on GPVI interaction with its ligands. Monoclonal antibody 9E18 strongly reduced the binding of GPVI to collagen/CRP, 3F8 inhibited its interaction with convulxin, whereas 9O12 prevented all three interactions. These observations suggest that ligand-binding sites are distinct, exhibiting specific features but at the same time also sharing some common residues participating in the recognition of these ligands. The epitope of 9O12 was mapped by phage display, along with molecular modeling of human GPVI, which allowed the identification of residues within GPVI potentially involved in ligand recognition. Site-directed mutagenesis revealed that valine 34 and leucine 36 are critical for GPVI interaction with collagen and CRP. The loop might thus be part of a collagen/CRP-binding site.
Structural and functional characteristics of the Val44Met insulin-like growth factor I missense mutation: correlation with effects on growth and development.	We have previously described the phenotype resulting from a missense mutation in the IGF-I gene, which leads to expression of IGF-I with a methionine instead of a valine at position 44 (Val44Met IGF-I). This mutation caused severe growth and mental retardation as well as deafness evident at birth and growth retardation in childhood, but is relatively well tolerated in adulthood. We have conducted a biochemical and structural analysis of Val44Met IGF-I to provide a molecular basis for the phenotype observed. Val44Met IGF-I exhibits a 90-fold decrease in type 1 IGF receptor (IGF-1R) binding compared with wild-type human IGF-I and only poorly stimulates autophosphorylation of the IGF-1R. The ability of Val44Met IGF-I to signal via the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 and Akt/protein kinase B pathways and to stimulate DNA synthesis is correspondingly poorer. Binding or activation of both insulin receptor isoforms is not detectable even at micromolar concentrations. However, Val44Met IGF-I binds IGF-binding protein-2 (IGFBP-2), IGFBP-3, and IGFBP-6 with equal affinity to IGF-I, suggesting the maintenance of overall structure, particularly in the IGFBP binding domain. Structural analysis by nuclear magnetic resonance confirms retention of near-native structure with only local side-chain disruptions despite the significant loss of function. To our knowledge, our results provide the first structural study of a naturally occurring mutant human IGF-I associated with growth and developmental abnormalities and identifies Val44 as an essential residue involved in the IGF-IGF-1R interaction.
Hypofibrinogenaemia associated with a novel heterozygous gamma289 Ala -->Val substitution (fibrinogen Dorfen).	The molecular basis of hypofibrinogenaemia was investigated in a 34-year-old woman and her 10-year-old daughter. DNA sequencing revealed a single heterozygous GCC-->GTC transition in exon 8 of the fibrinogen gamma ?gene in both subjects, predicting a novel gamma289 Ala-->Val substitution. Examination of fibrinogen gamma ?chains by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry failed to detect the variant chain in plasma fibrinogen. Further evidence for its non-expression came from tryptic peptide mapping. The mutation predicts a mass increase of 28 Da in peptide T32, but only the normal (M + 2H) ion was detected at 1418 m/z in the proposita. Our finding that gamma289 is an important determinant of plasma fibrinogen levels highlights the role of mutational analysis in defining structurally important regions of the fibrinogen molecule. This case suggests that the highly conserved Ala(289) is important in maintaining structure of the "a" polymerization site via hydrogen bonding to Thr(371).
Catalytic asymmetric conjugate addition of dialkylzinc reagents to beta-aryl-alpha,beta-unsaturated N-2,4,6-triisopropylphenylsulfonylaldimines with use of N-Boc-L-Val-connected amidophosphane-copper(I) catalyst.	Asymmetric conjugate addition of dialkylzinc to alpha,beta-unsaturated N-2,4,6-triisopropylphenylsulfonylaldimines 9 was catalyzed by 5 mol % N-Boc-L-valine-connected amidophosphane 5a-Cu(MeCN)(4)BF(4) in the presence of 4 angstroms MS in toluene to afford, after hydrolysis of an imine to an aldehyde through a short alumina column and reduction with sodium borohydride, the corresponding beta-alkylated alkanols 10 with 67-91% ee in reasonably high yields.
Solution 1H nuclear magnetic resonance determination of hydrogen bonding of the E10 (66) Arg side-chain to the bound ligand in Aplysia cyano-met myoglobin.	A combined one-dimensional nuclear Overhauser effect, paramagnetic-induced relaxation and two-dimensional sequence-specific 1H n.m.r. assignment of the spectrum of portions of the distal pocket of Aplysia cyano metMyoglobin (metMbCN) has been carried out in order to establish the presence and identity of distal residues in the heme pocket. In the absence of the usual distal E7 His in Aplysia Mb (E7 Val), the sequence-specific assignment of the E7 and E10 residues, together with their hyperfine shift patterns, relaxivities and dipolar connectivities to each other and the remainder of the E helix, reveal that the E10 Arg is turned into the pocket and hydrogen bonds to the bound cyanide group. We have previously found a similar rearrangement of the E10 Arg in Aplysia fluoro metMyoglobin, and the stabilizing effect of this residue was proposed to be responsible for the slow rate of cyanide dissociation from rapidly reduced ferrous Aplysia myoglobin. Based on the similar distal E7 His hydrogen-bonding interaction to the bound ligand in the crystal of sperm whale MbO2 and in solution of its cyano met complex, we propose that the E10 Arg similarly hydrogen bonds to the bound O2 in Aplysia MbO2 and accounts for its strong ligand binding and slow dissociation rate.
Hydrolysis of the amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) 1-40 between Asp23-Val24 produces non-aggregating fragments. An electrospray mass spectrometric study.	The aggregation of full-length (residues 1-40) amyloid beta-peptide (A beta) and fragments corresponding to residues 1-23 and 24-40 was studied by electrospray mass spectrometry, using gramicidin as a non-aggregating reference. Following a lag period, A beta(1-40) at 140 microM concentration aggregates with apparent first-order kinetics. Under acidic conditions A beta(1-40) undergoes spontaneous cleavage between Asp23-Val24 and to a lesser extent also at two other Asp-X motifs. Incubation in acidic H(2)18O showed incorporation of 18O in fragment A beta(1-23), confirming that the Asp23-Val24 peptide bond had been hydrolyzed. Incubation of synthetic A beta(1-23) and A beta(24-40) peptides with A beta(1-40) showed that A beta(24-40) remained in solution for several months, that A beta(1-23) partly disappeared from solution, whereas A beta(1-40) completely disappeared. Further, treatment of sedimentable aggregates formed after co-incubation of the three peptides with hexafluoro-2-propanol or formic acid recovered the intensity of A beta(1-40). These data support previous studies showing that the region of A beta encompassing residues 16-24 is necessary for aggregation into amyloid fibrils.
Characteristic of aromatic amino acid substitution at alpha 96 of hemoglobin.	Replacement of valine by tryptophan or tyrosine at position alpha96 of the alpha chain (alpha96Val), located in the alpha(1)beta(2) subunit interface of hemoglobin leads to low oxygen affinity hemoglobin, and has been suggested to be due to the extra stability introduced by an aromatic amino acid at the alpha96 position. The characteristic of aromatic amino acid substitution at the alpha96 of hemoglobin has been further investigated by producing double mutant r Hb (alpha42Tyr --> Phe, alpha96Val --> Trp). r Hb (alpha42Tyr --> Phe) is known to exhibit almost no cooperativity in binding oxygen, and possesses high oxygen affinity due to the disruption of the hydrogen bond between alpha42Tyr and beta99Asp in thealpha(1)beta(2) subunit interface of deoxy Hb A. The second mutation, alpha96Val -->Trp, may compensate the functional defects of r Hb (alpha42Tyr --> Phe), if the stability due to the introduction of trypophan at the alpha 96 position is strong enough to overcome the defect of r Hb (alpha42Tyr --> Phe). Double mutant r Hb (alpha42Tyr --> Phe, alpha96Val --> Trp) exhibited almost no cooperativity in binding oxygen and possessed high oxygen affinity, similarly to that of r Hb (alpha42Tyr --> Phe). (1)H NMR spectroscopic data of r Hb (alpha42Tyr --> Phe, alpha96Val --> Trp) also showed a very unstable deoxy-quaternary structure. The present investigation has demonstrated that the presence of the crucible hydrogen bond between alpha 42Tyr and beta 99Asp is essential for the novel oxygen binding properties of deoxy Hb (alpha96Val --> Trp) .
Glycogen synthase kinase-3beta phosphorylation of MAP1B at Ser1260 and Thr1265 is spatially restricted to growing axons.	Recent experiments show that the microtubule-associated protein (MAP) 1B is a major phosphorylation substrate for the serine/threonine kinase glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) in differentiating neurons. GSK-3beta phosphorylation of MAP1B appears to act as a molecular switch regulating the control that MAP1B exerts on microtubule dynamics in growing axons and growth cones. Maintaining a population of dynamically unstable microtubules in growth cones is important for axon growth and growth cone pathfinding. We have mapped two GSK-3beta phosphorylation sites on mouse MAP1B to Ser1260 and Thr1265 using site-directed point mutagenesis of recombinant MAP1B proteins, in vitro kinase assays and phospho-specific antibodies. We raised phospho-specific polyclonal antibodies to these two sites and used them to show that MAP1B is phosphorylated by GSK-3beta at Ser1260 and Thr1265 in vivo. We also showed that in the developing nervous system of rat embryos, the expression of GSK-3beta phosphorylated MAP1B is spatially restricted to growing axons, in a gradient that is highest distally, despite the expression of MAP1B and GSK-3beta throughout the entire neuron. This suggests that there is a mechanism that spatially regulates the GSK-3beta phosphorylation of MAP1B in differentiating neurons. Heterologous cell transfection experiments with full-length MAP1B, in which either phosphorylation site was separately mutated to a valine or, in a double mutant, in which both sites were mutated, showed that these GSK-3beta phosphorylation sites contribute to the regulation of microtubule dynamics by MAP1B.
Interaction of the N-terminal region of hirudin with the active-site cleft of thrombin.	Site-specific substitutions of the first five amino acids of the thrombin inhibitor hirudin have been made and the effects of these substitutions on the kinetics of formation of the thrombin-hirudin complex evaluated. The effects of different substitutions of Val1 indicate that nonpolar interactions play a major role in the binding of this residue. In the second position (Val2), polar amino acids were better accommodated than in the first. The mutant with arginine in the second position bound particularly well to thrombin; its dissociation constant was 9-fold lower than that of wild-type recombinant hirudin. Comparison of the effects of single and double mutations involving Val1 and Val2 indicates that there was no cooperativity in the binding of these two residues. Elimination of the hydrophobic interactions made by the aromatic ring of Tyr3 of hirudin resulted in a large loss of binding energy (12.7 kJ mol-1). Replacement of Thr4 of hirudin by serine and alanine suggested that both the gamma-methyl and the hydroxyl group of the threonine were important in the stabilization of the thrombin-hirudin complex. Replacement of Asp5 of hirudin by alanine and glutamate caused about the same loss in binding energy (5 kJ mol-1). The effects of site-specific substitutions are discussed in terms of the crystal structure of the thrombin-hirudin complex. Molecular modeling provided plausible explanations for many of the observed effects. For instance, such studies suggested that the improved binding of the mutant with arginine in the second position could be due to an interaction of the arginine with the primary specificity pocket.
Electron microscopy of DNA complexes with synthetic oligopeptides.	Electron microscopical data is presented on the varying morphology of the complexes formed between DNA and a number of synthetic beta-oligopeptides. In general, these peptides produce DNA compaction or condensation, resulting in two main types of complexes: toroids and rods. By controlling the ratio of peptide to DNA, interpretations of the possible packing of DNA within the various compact particles are advanced. Some understanding of the mechanism of peptide-induced DNA compaction in vitro may be of significance in relation to DNA condensation and the discrimination of gene domains in vivo.
Specific amino acid sequences required for O6-methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase activity: analyses of three residues at or near the methyl acceptor site.	O6-Methylguanine-DNA methyltransferase plays an important role in preventing tumor induction. To elucidate the significance of a highly conserved amino acid sequence of methyltransferase protein, amino acid substitutions were introduced by site-directed mutagenesis of cloned cDNA for human methyltransferase and the activity and stability of mutant forms of enzyme were examined. When cysteine-145, to which the methyl transfer occurs, was replaced by other amino acids, all of the mutants isolated showed the methyltransferase-negative phenotype. From one of the negative mutants, methyltransferase-positive revertants were isolated, all of which carried codons for cysteine. Thus the cysteine residue is essential for acceptance of the methyl group and cannot be replaced by other amino acids. Using this negative and positive selection procedure, analyses were extended to other residues near the acceptor site. At the histidine-146 site, four substitutions (phenylalanine, methionine, asparagine and glutamine) exhibited the positive phenotype but the levels of methyltransferase activity in these mutants were low. With valine-148 substitutions there were six types of positive revertants, among which mutants carrying isoleucine, cysteine and alanine showed significantly high levels of methyltransferase activity. Some mutant forms of cDNA were expressed in methyltransferase-deficient human cells, and the results obtained with Escherichia coli cells were confirmed.
DNA-coated microcrystals.	Coprecipitation leads to self-assembly of bioactive DNA on the surface of salt, sugar or amino-acid crystals and provides a rapid inexpensive immobilization method suitable for preparing dry-powder formulations of nucleic acids, useful for storage, imaging and drug delivery.
Transmembrane peptides from tyrosine kinase receptor. Mutation-related behavior in a lipid bilayer investigated by molecular dynamics simulations.	Polar mutations in transmembrane alpha helices may alter the structural details of the hydrophobic sequences and control intermolecular contacts. We have performed molecular dynamics simulations on the transmembrane domain of the proto-oncogenic and the oncogenic forms of the Neu receptor in a fluid DMPC bilayer to test whether the Glu mutation which replaces the Val residue at position 664 may alter the helical structure and its insertion in the membrane. The simulations show that the wild and the mutant forms of the transmembrane domain have a different behavior in the bilayer. The native transmembrane sequence is found to be more flexible than in the presence of the Glu mutation, characterized by a tendency to pi deformation to accommodate the helix length to the membrane thickness. The mutant form of this domain does not evidence helical deformation in the present simulation. Hydrophobic matching is achieved both by a larger helix tilt and a vertical shift of the helix towards the membrane interface, favoring the accessibility of the Glu side chain to the membrane environment. A rapid exchange of hydrogen bond interactions with the surrounding water molecules and the lipid headgroups is observed. The difference in the behavior between the two peptides in a membrane environment was also observed experimentally. Both simulation and experimental results agree with the hypothesis that water may act as an intermediate for the formation of cross links between the facing Glu side chains stabilizing the dimer.
The Brichos domain-containing C-terminal part of pro-surfactant protein C binds to an unfolded poly-val transmembrane segment.	Native lung surfactant protein C (SP-C) is a 4.2-kDa acylpeptide that associates with alveolar surfactant phospholipids via a transmembrane alpha-helix. This helix contains mainly Val, although poly-Val is inefficient in helix formation, and helical SP-C can spontaneously convert to beta-sheet aggregates and amyloid-like fibrils. SP-C is cleaved out from a 21-kDa integral membrane protein, proSP-C, in the alveolar type II cell. Recently several mutations localized in the endoplasmic reticulum-lumenal (C-terminal) part of proSP-C (CTproSP-C) have been associated with intracellular accumulation of toxic forms of proSP-C, low levels of mature SP-C, and development of interstitial lung disease. CTproSP-C contains a approximately 100-residue Brichos domain of unknown function that is also found in other membrane proteins associated with amyloid formation, dementia, and cancer. Here we find that recombinant CTproSP-C binds lipid-associated SP-C, which is in beta-strand conformation, and that this interaction results in an increased helical content. In contrast, CTproSP-C does not bind alpha-helical SP-C. Recombinant CTproSP-C(L188Q), a mutation associated with interstitial lung disease, shows secondary and quaternary structures similar to those of wild type CTproSP-C but is unable to bind lipid-associated beta-strand SP-C. Transfection of CTproSP-C into HEK293 cells that express proSP-C(L188Q) increases the amount of proSP-C protein, whereas no effect is seen on cells expressing wild type proSP-C. These findings suggest that CTproSP-C binds nonhelical SP-C and thereby prevents beta-sheet aggregation and that mutations in CTproSP-C can interfere with this function.
Determination and modeling of peptide pKa by capillary zone electrophoresis.	In this work, pKa values of polyglycines, poly(L-alanines), and poly(L-valines) with a number of residues up to 10 were determined in different conditions of ionic strength (10 and 100 mM) and temperature (from 15 to 60 degrees C) by capillary electrophoresis. For each peptide family, the pKa values were modeled as a function of the number of residues, the temperature, and the ionic strength. Next, using this set of experimental data, a semiempirical model was developed in order to predict pKa values for any oligopeptide having neutral lateral chains. This model only needs, as input parameters, the number of residues and the pKa of terminal amino acids in their free form. It can predict the peptide pKa values at a given ionic strength and temperature. Comparisons with experimental data from the literature demonstrated that the prediction was possible with a standard deviation of approximately 0.1 pH unit.
N-terminal globin adducts as biomarkers for formation of butadiene derived epoxides.	The aim of this review is to summarize our recent data on butadiene (BD) derived hemoglobin adducts as biomarkers for the internal formation of the individual epoxides formed by butadiene (BD). It is well known that BD is oxidized by cytochrome P450s to several epoxides that form DNA and protein adducts. 1,2-Epoxy-3-butene (EB), 1,2;3,4-diepoxybutane (DEB) and 1,2-epoxy-3,4-butanediol (EB-diol) form N-(2-hydroxy-3-butenyl)-valine (HB-Val), N,N-(2,3-dihydroxy-1,4-butadiyl)-valine (pyr-Val) and N-(2,3,4-trihydroxybutyl)-valine (THB-Val) adducts, respectively. The analysis of HB-Val and THB-Val by the modified Edman degradation and GC-MS/MS has generated valuable insights into BD metabolism across species. In addition, a recently established method for the analysis of pyr-Val has been proven to be suitable for detection of pyr-Val in rodents exposed to BD as low as 1 ppm. These technologies have been applied to study a wide range of exposures to BD, EB, DEB, and 3-butene-1,2-diol as a precursor of EB-diol in male and female mice and rats. Altogether the data have shown that BD metabolism is species and concentration dependent, consistent with metabolism and carcinogenesis data. Mice form much more HB-Val and pyr-Val than rats, especially at low exposures. After 10 days of inhalation exposure to 3 ppm BD, mice formed 12.5-fold more pyr-Val than rats. In contrast, the amounts of THB-Val were similar in mice and rats exposed to 3 or 62.5 ppm BD. Furthermore, it appears that the formation of THB-Val is supralinear in mice and rats due to saturation of metabolic activation pathways. Gender differences in metabolism are less well established. One study with male and female rats exposed to 1000 ppm BD for 90 days demonstrated a 1.6-, 3.5- and 2.0-fold gender difference in formation of HB-Val, pyr-Val and THB-Val, respectively, with females being more efficient in epoxide formation. The analyses of BD derived protein adducts correlate well with the observed species and gender differences in BD-carcinogenesis and suggest that DEB may indeed be the most important metabolite.
The molecular basis for ligand specificity in a mouse olfactory receptor: a network of functionally important residues.	Sequence differences between members of the mouse olfac-tory receptor MOR42 subfamily (MOR42-3 and MOR42-1) are likely to be the basis for variation in ligand binding preference among these receptors. We investigated the specificity of MOR42-3 for a variety of dicarboxylic acids. We used site-directed mutagenesis, guided by homology modeling and ligand docking studies, to locate functionally important residues. Receptors were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and assayed using high throughput electrophysiology. The importance of the Val-113 residue, located deep within the receptor, was analyzed in the context of interhelical interactions. We also screened additional residues predicted to be involved in ligand binding site, based on comparison of ortholog/paralog pairs from the mouse and human olfactory receptor genomes (Man, O., Gilad, Y., and Lancet, D. (2004) Protein Sci. 13, 240-254). A network of 8 residues in transmembrane domains III, V, and VI was identified. These residues form part of the ligand binding pocket of MOR42-3. C12 dicarboxylic acid did not activate the receptor in our functional assay, yet our docking simulations predicted its binding site in MOR42-3. Binding without activation implied that C12 dicarboxylic acid might act as an antagonist. In our functional assay, C12 dicarboxylic acid did indeed act as an antagonist of MOR42-3, in agreement with molecular docking studies. Our results demonstrate a powerful approach based on the synergy between computational predictions and physiological assays.
Functional analysis of mutations in the putative binding site for cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator potentiators. Interaction between activation and inhibition.	An increasing number of compounds able to potentiate the activity of mutants of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) chloride channel have been identified by high throughput screening or by individual search of derivatives of known active compounds. Several lines of evidence suggest that most CFTR potentiators act through the same mechanism, probably by binding to the nucleotide binding domains to promote the activity of the protein and then, with lower affinity, to an inhibitory site. With the aim of identifying the activating binding site, we recently modeled the nucleotide binding domain dimer and predicted a common binding site for potentiators in its interface. To validate this model experimentally, we mutated some of the residues involved in the putative binding site, i.e. Arg(553), Ala(554), and Val(1293). The activity of CFTR potentiators was measured as apical membrane currents on polarized cells stably expressing wild type or mutated proteins. CFTR activity was elicited by application of a membrane-permeable cAMP analogue followed by increasing concentrations of potentiators. We found that all three mutants responded to cAMP, although the affinity of R553Q was higher than that of wild type CFTR. In R553Q and V1293G mutants, the dissociation constant of potentiators for the activating site was increased, whereas the dissociation constant for the inhibitory site was reduced. Our results show that the mutated residues are part of the activating binding site for potentiators, as suggested by the molecular model. In addition, these results suggest that the activating and inhibitory sites are not independent of each other.
Biosynthesis of hyperforin and adhyperforin from amino acid precursors in shoot cultures of Hypericum perforatum.	Hyperforin and adhyperforin contribute to the antidepressant effects of Hypericum perforatum. The involvement of branched-chain amino acids in the biosynthesis of hyperforin and adhyperforin was demonstrated in H. perforatum shoot cultures. L-[U-(13)C(5)]Valine and L-[U-(13)C(6)]isoleucine, upon administration to the shoot cultures, were incorporated into acyl side chain of hyperforin and adhyperforin, respectively. Feeding the shoot cultures with unlabelled L-isoleucine at a concentration of 2mM induced a 3.7-fold increase in the production of adhyperforin. The addition of 3mM L-threonine, a precursor of isoleucine, stimulated a 2.0-fold increase in the accumulation of adhyperforin. The administration of L-valine at concentrations of 0-5mM had no stimulating effect on the hyperforin production in H. perforatum shoot cultures.
Determination of the backbone torsion psi angle by tensor correlation of chemical shift anisotropy and heteronuclear dipole-dipole interaction.	We demonstrate that the backbone torsion psi angle of a uniformly labeled residue can be determined accurately by correlating the chemical shift anisotropy of the carbonyl carbon and the 13C-1H heteronuclear dipole-dipole interaction of the alpha carbon. To obtain the highest sensitivity for the psi angle determination, the following conditions are desired: (i) the recoupling pulse sequences for the CSA and the heteronuclear dipolar interactions are gamma encoded, in which the spatial parts of m=2 are selected; (ii) the homonuclear polarization transfer is based on the scalar spin-spin coupling. Experimental data were obtained for [U-13C, 15N]-alanine and N-acetyl-[U-13C, 15N]-d,l-valine under magic-angle spinning at 25kHz. Only three data points are required for the measurements and the dihedral angles determined are in excellent agreement with the diffraction data.
An active serine is involved in covalent substrate amino acid binding at each reaction center of gramicidin S synthetase.	The condensing peptide forming multienzyme of gramicidin S synthetase (gramicidin S synthetase 2) was specifically labeled at its putative thiotemplate sites for L-valine and L-leucine by covalent incorporation of the 14C-labeled substrate amino acids. The thioester complexes of the multienzyme were digested with CNBr, Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease, and pepsin. Reaction center peptides containing the [14C]valine and [14C]leucine labels were isolated in pure form. They show a high degree of sequence similarity and contain the same consensus sequence LGGH/DXL. The labels were eliminated in the first Edman degradation step. A dehydroalanine was identified which can originate from either a cysteine or a serine. The comparison of the chemical results with the deduced amino acid sequence of the grsB gene encoding the gramicidin S synthetase 2 revealed that 4 such motifs are located within the gene structure, each of them being localized in the 3'-terminal region of one of 4 gene segments grsB1-B4. They have a size of approximately 2 kilobases and presumably code for the 4 amino acid activating domains of the synthetase. Surprisingly a serine was found at each putative substrate amino acid-binding position instead of a cysteine as postulated by the thiotemplate mechanism. Therefore the data suggest that active serine residues are involved in nonribosomal peptide syntheses of microbial peptides.
Chemical shift based editing of CH3 groups in fractionally 13C-labelled proteins using GFT (3, 2)D CT-HCCH-COSY: stereospecific assignments of CH3 groups of Val and Leu residues.	We propose a (3, 2)D CT-HCCH-COSY experiment to rapidly collect the data and provide significant dispersion in the spectral region containing (13)C-(1)H cross peaks of CH(3) groups belonging to Ala, Ile, Leu, Met, Thr and Val residues. This enables one to carry out chemical shift based editing and grouping of all the (13)C-(1)H cross peaks of CH(3) groups belonging to Ala, Ile, Leu, Met, Thr and Val residues in fractionally (10%) (13)C-labelled proteins, which in turn aids in the sequence-specific resonance assignments in general and side-chain resonance assignments in particular, in any given protein. Further, we demonstrate the utility of this experiment for stereospecific assignments of the pro-R and pro-S methyl groups belonging to the Leu and Val residues in fractionally (10%) (13)C-labelled proteins. The proposed experiment opens up a wide range of applications in resonance assignment strategies and structure determination of proteins.
Formation and spectroscopy of a tryptophan radical containing peptide in the gas phase.	A doubly deprotonated tryptophan containing peptide was electrosprayed and isolated in an ion trap. UV excitation on this peptide leads to electron detachment and to the formation of an indolyl radical. The photogenerated radical was fragmented by a second laser. The visible spectrum of the gas-phase neutral tryptophan radical containing peptide has been recorded and constitutes a benchmark for calculations and optical measurements.
Crystal structures at 2.2 A resolution of the catalytic domains of normal ras protein and an oncogenic mutant complexed with GDP.	The biological functions of ras proteins are controlled by the bound guanine nucleotide GDP or GTP. The GTP-bound conformation is biologically active, and is rapidly deactivated to the GDP-bound conformation through interaction with GAP (GTPase Activating Protein). Most transforming mutants of ras proteins have drastically reduced GTP hydrolysis rates even in the presence of GAP. The crystal structures of the GDP complexes of ras proteins at 2.2 A resolution reveal the detailed interaction between the ras proteins and the GDP molecule. All the currently known transforming mutation positions are clustered around the bound guanine nucleotide molecule. The presumed "effector" region and the GAP recognition region are both highly exposed. No significant structural differences were found between the GDP complexes of normal ras protein and the oncogenic mutant with valine at position 12, except the side-chain of the valine residue. However, comparison with GTP-analog complexes of ras proteins suggests that the valine side-chain may inhibit GTP hydrolysis in two possible ways: (1) interacting directly with the gamma-phosphate and altering its orientation or the conformation of protein residues around the phosphates; and/or (2) preventing either the departure of gamma-phosphate on GTP hydrolysis or the entrance of a nucleophilic group to attack the gamma-phosphate. The structural similarity between ras protein and the bacterial elongation factor Tu suggests that their common structural motif might be conserved for other guanine nucleotide binding proteins.
Mutations in the guanine nucleotide-binding domains of a yeast G alpha protein confer a constitutive or uninducible state to the pheromone response pathway.	Several domains of guanine nucleotide-binding proteins are conserved and form the guanine nucleotide-binding pocket. Mutations in these domains in EF-Tu, ras, and Gas have been shown to result in informative phenotypes. We made several analogous changes in SCG1, which encodes the alpha subunit of the G protein involved in pheromone response in yeast. The scg1Lys388 and scg1Ala391 mutations resulted in severe growth and cell morphology defects; this phenotype is similar to the null phenotype and results from constitutive activation of the pheromone response pathway. On the basis of the model for the action of the yeast G protein, the effect of these mutations is consistent with the effect of analogous mutations in ras, which result in a transforming phenotype. The SCG1Ala322 mutation resulted in pheromone response and mating defects. This effect is similar to the effect of the analogous G alpha s mutation, which results in a defect in stimulation of adenylate cyclase. The scg1Val50 mutation, which is analogous to the transforming mutation rasVal12, resulted in multiple effects, including defects in growth, cell morphology, and mating. Some of our results and interpretations are different from previously published results of others for the same mutation in SCG1; specifically, our gene replacement of this mutation resulted in high basal activation of the pheromone response pathway, consistent with a GTPase defect, which was not seen previously with scg1Val50 on a low-copy plasmid. Implications of these phenotypes are discussed.
Sequence recognition of DNA by protein-induced conformational transitions.	The binding of proteins to specific sequences of DNA is an important feature of virtually all DNA transactions. Proteins recognize specific DNA sequences using both direct readout (sensing types and positions of DNA functional groups) and indirect readout (sensing DNA conformation and deformability). Previously we showed that the P22 c2 repressor N-terminal domain (P22R NTD) forces the central non-contacted 5'-ATAT-3' sequence of the DNA operator into the B' state, a state known to affect DNA hydration, rigidity and bending. Usually the B' state, with a narrow minor groove and a spine of hydration, is reserved for A-tract DNA (TpA steps disrupt A-tracts). Here, we have co-crystallized P22R NTD with an operator containing a central 5'-ACGT-3' sequence in the non-contacted region. C.G base pairs have not previously been observed in the B' state and are thought to prevent it. However, P22R NTD induces a narrow minor groove and a spine of hydration to 5'-ACGT-3'. We observe that C.G base pairs have distinctive destabilizing and disordering effects on the spine of hydration. It appears that the reduced stability of the spine results in a higher energy cost for the B to B' transition. The differential effect of DNA sequence on the barrier to this transition allows the protein to sense the non-contacted DNA sequence.
Controlling the helical screw sense of peptides with C-terminal L-valine.	One chiral L-valine (L-Val) was inserted into the C-terminal position of achiral peptide segments constructed from alpha-aminoisobutyric acid (Aib) and alpha,beta-dehydrophenylalanine (Delta(Z)Phe) residues. The IR, (1)H NMR and CD spectra indicated that the dominant conformations of the pentapeptide Boc-Aib-DeltaPhe-(Aib)(2)-L-Val-NH-Bn (3) and the hexapeptide Boc-Aib-DeltaPhe-(Aib)(3)-L-Val-NH-Bn (4) in solution were both right-handed (P) 3(10)-helical structures. X-ray crystallographic analyses of 3 and 4 revealed that only a right-handed (P) 3(10)-helical structure was present in their crystalline states. The conformation of 4 was also studied by molecular-mechanics calculations.
Straight-chain non-polar amino acids are good helix-formers in water.	For comparison with earlier data on naturally occurring non-polar amino acids (Ala, Leu, Phe, Val, Ile), the comparative helix-forming tendencies have been measured for non-polar amino acid residues that have unbranched side-chains, with an ethyl, propyl or butyl group, and also for methionine. The substitutions are made in a 17-residue alanine-based peptide. The results show that straight-chain non-polar amino acids have high helix-forming tendencies compared to beta-branched non-polar amino acids. Restriction of side-chain conformations in the helix, with a corresponding reduction in conformational entropy, is the likely explanation. There is a small increase in helix-forming tendency as the side-chain increases in length from ethyl to butyl, which suggests that a helix-stabilizing hydrophobic interaction is being detected.
Incorporation of chlorinated analogues of aliphatic amino acids during cell-free protein synthesis.	3-Chloro-Abu and 4-chloro-Nva are biosynthetically incorporated into E. coli peptidyl-Pro cis-trans isomerase B, as substitutes for Val and Leu, respectively. The extent of incorporation is up to ~90%, and substituted protein is catalytically active. By contrast, 4-chloro-Val is not an effective replacement for Ile.
Regio- and stereoselective oxidation of propranolol enantiomers by human CYP2D6, cynomolgus monkey CYP2D17 and marmoset CYP2D19.	Toxic and pharmacokinetic profiles of drug candidates are evaluated in vivo often using monkeys as experimental animals, and the data obtained are extrapolated to humans. Well understanding physiological properties, including drug-metabolizing enzymes, of monkeys should increase the accuracy of the extrapolation. The present study was performed to compare regio- and stereoselectivity in the oxidation of propranolol (PL), a chiral substrate, by cytochrome P450 2D (CYP2D) enzymes among humans, cynomolgus monkeys and marmosets. Complimentary DNAs encoding human CYP2D6, cynomolgus monkey CYP2D17 and marmoset CYP2D19 were cloned, and their proteins expressed in a yeast cell expression system. The regio- and stereoselective oxidation of PL enantiomers by yeast cell microsomal fractions were compared. In terms of efficiency of expression in the system, the holo-proteins ranked CYP2D6=CYP2D17>>CYP2D19. This may be caused by the bulky side chain of the amino acid residue at position 119 (leucine for CYP2D19 vs. valine for CYP2D6 and CYP2D17), which can disturb the incorporation of the heme moiety into the active-site cavity. PL enantiomers were oxidized by all of the enzymes mainly into 4-hydroxyproranolol (4-OH-PL), followed by 5-OH-PL and N-desisopropylpropranolol (NDP). In the kinetic analysis, apparent K(m) values were commonly in the M range and substrate enantioselectivity of R-PL<S-PL was observed in both K(m) and V(max) values for the formation of the three metabolites from PL enantiomers. The activity to produce NDP tended to be higher for the monkey enzymes, particularly CYP2D17, than for the human enzyme. These results indicate that in the oxidation of PL enantiomers by CYP2D enzymes, stereoselectivity is similar but regioselectivity is different between humans and monkeys.
Modulation of substrate specificities of D-sialic acid aldolase through single mutations of Val-251.	In a recent directed-evolution study, Escherichia coli D-sialic acid aldolase was converted by introducing eight point mutations into a new enzyme with relaxed specificity, denoted RS-aldolase (also known formerly as L-3-deoxy-manno-2-octulosonic acid (L-KDO) aldolase), which showed a preferred selectivity toward L-KDO. To investigate the underlying molecular basis, we determined the crystal structures of D-sialic acid aldolase and RS-aldolase. All mutations are away from the catalytic center, except for V251I, which is near the opening of the (/)(8)-barrel and proximal to the Schiff base-forming Lys-165. The change of specificity from D-sialic acid to RS-aldolase can be attributed mainly to the V251I substitution, which creates a narrower sugar-binding pocket, but without altering the chirality in the reaction center. The crystal structures of D-sialic acid aldolasel-arabinose and RS-aldolasehydroxypyruvate complexes and five mutants (V251I, V251L, V251R, V251W, and V251I/V265I) of the D-sialic acid aldolase were also determined, revealing the location of substrate molecules and how the contour of the active site pocket was shaped. Interestingly, by mutating Val251 alone, the enzyme can accept substrates of varying size in the aldolase reactions and still retain stereoselectivity. The engineered D-sialic acid aldolase may find applications in synthesizing unnatural sugars of C(6) to C(10) for the design of antagonists and inhibitors of glycoenzymes.
Synergistic effects of sour taste and low temperature in suppressing the bitterness of Aminoleban EN.	Aminoleban EN, a nutritional product for patients with liver failure, contains three branched-chain amino acids (BCAAs): L-leucine, L-isoleucine, and L-valine. As BCAAs are extremely bitter, Aminoleban EN has a low palatability, which is a major cause of patient noncompliance. Nutrients for liver failure often need to be taken for long periods, and poor medication compliance can cause serious problems, such as encephalopathy. Therefore it is important to suppress the bitter taste of Aminoleban EN and thereby improve patient compliance. There are already six different flavoured powders (coffee, green-tea, apple, fruit, plum and pineapple) which can be added to Aminoleban EN to reduce its unpleasant taste and smell, but it is possible that other factors, such as temperature, may also improve the palatability of Aminoleban EN. In this study, flavours alone significantly decreased the bitterness intensity of Aminoleban EN. It was thought that the sweetness and sourness of the flavoured powder would be the main factors involved in decreasing the bitterness. However, low temperature (0-5 C) decreased the bitterness intensity of Aminoleban EN, with or without the flavoured powders, compared with normal room temperature (25-30 C). The sourness intensity of flavoured powders was not decreased at low temperatures, but the sweetness intensity of some flavoured powders did decrease. These results suggest that sourness can be tasted even at low temperatures. As not only the addition of flavoured powders but also low temperatures can reduce the bitterness of Aminioleban EN, the combination of a sour-flavoured powder and a low temperature will improve the palatability of Aminoleban EN the most.
Temperature-dependent intensity anomalies in amino acid esters: weak hydrogen bonds in protected glycine, alanine and valine.	Esters of glycine, alanine and valine are investigated by FTIR and Raman spectroscopy in supersonic jets as gas phase model systems for the neutral peptide N-terminus. The NH-stretching vibrations exhibit very large temperature- and substitution-dependent intensity anomalies which are related to weak, bifurcated intramolecular hydrogen bonds to the carbonyl group. Comparison to theory is only satisfactory at low temperature. Spectral NH aggregation shifts are small or even negligible and the associated IR intensity is remarkably low. In the case of valine, chirality recognition effects are nevertheless detected and rationalized. Comparison to quantum-chemical calculations for dimers shows that dispersion interactions are essential. It also rules out cooperative hydrogen bond topologies and points at deficiencies in standard harmonic treatments with the linear dipole approximation.
Active site hydrophobic residues impact hydrogen tunneling differently in a thermophilic alcohol dehydrogenase at optimal versus nonoptimal temperatures.	A growing body of data suggests that protein motion plays an important role in enzyme catalysis. Two highly conserved hydrophobic active site residues in the cofactor-binding pocket of ht-ADH (Leu176 and V260) have been mutated to a series of hydrophobic side chains of smaller size, as well as one deletion mutant, L176. Mutations decrease k(cat) and increase K(M)(NAD(+)). Most of the observed decreases in effects on k(cat) at pH 7.0 are due to an upward shift in the optimal pH for catalysis; a simple electrostatic model is invoked that relates the change in pK(a) to the distance between the positively charged nicotinamide ring and bound substrate. Structural modeling of the L176 and V260A variants indicates the development of a cavity behind the nicotinamide ring without any significant perturbation of the secondary structure of the enzyme relative to that of the wild type. Primary kinetic isotope effects (KIEs) are modestly increased for all mutants. Above the dynamical transition at 30 C for ht-ADH [Kohen, A., et al. (1999) Nature 399, 496], the temperature dependence of the KIE is seen to increase with a decrease in side chain volume at positions 176 and 260. Additionally, the relative trends in the temperature dependence of the KIE above and below 30 C appear to be reversed for the cofactor-binding pocket mutants in relation to wild-type protein. The aggregate results are interpreted in the context of a full tunneling model of enzymatic hydride transfer that incorporates both protein conformational sampling (preorganization) and active site optimization of tunneling (reorganization). The reduced temperature dependence of the KIE in the mutants below 30 C indicates that at low temperatures, the enzyme adopts conformations refractory to donor-acceptor distance sampling.
Effect of compatible and noncompatible osmolytes on the enzymatic activity and thermal stability of bovine liver catalase.	Catalase is an important antioxidant enzyme that catalyzes the disproportionation of H2O2 into harmless water and molecular oxygen. Due to various applications of the enzyme in different sectors of industry as well as medicine, the enhancement of stability of the enzyme is important. Effect of various classes of compatible as well as noncompatible osmolytes on the enzymatic activity, disaggregation, and thermal stability of bovine liver catalase have been investigated. Compatible osmolytes, proline, xylitol, and valine destabilize the denatured form of the enzyme and, therefore, increase its disaggregation and thermal stability. The increase in the thermal stability is accompanied with a slight increase of activity in comparison to the native enzyme at 25C. On the other hand, histidine, a noncompatible osmolyte stabilizes the denatured form of the protein and hence causes an overall decrease in the thermal stability and enzymatic activity of the enzyme. Chemometric results have confirmed the experimental results and have provided insight into the distribution and number of mole fraction components for the intermediates. The increase in melting temperature (Tm) and enzymatic rate could be further amplified by the intrinsic effect of temperature enhancement on the enzymatic activity for the industrial purposes. 
Residue Val237 is critical for the enantioselectivity of Penicillium expansum lipase.	The shape of the hydrophobic tunnel leading to the active site of Penicillium expansum lipase (PEL) was redesigned by single-point mutations, in order to better understand enzyme enantioselectivity towards naproxen. A variant with a valine-to-glycine substitution at residue 237 exhibited almost no enantioselectivity (E = 1.1) compared with that (E = 104) of wild-type PEL. The function of the residue, Val237, in the hydrophobic tunnel was further analyzed by site-directed mutagenesis. For each of these variants a significant decrease of enantioselectivity (E < 7) was observed compared with that of wild-type enzyme. Further docking result showed that Val237 plays the most important role in stabilizing the correct orientation of (R)-naproxen. Overall, these results indicate that the residue Val237 is the key amino acid residue maintaining the enantioselectivity of the lipase.
THI1, a protein involved in the biosynthesis of thiamin in Arabidopsis thaliana: structural analysis of THI1(A140V) mutant.	In eukaryotes, there are still steps of the vitamin B1 biosynthetic pathway not completely understood. In Arabidopsis thaliana, THI1 protein has been associated with the synthesis of the thiazole ring, a finding supported by the identification of a thiamine pyrophosphate (TPP)-like compound in its structure. Here, we investigated THI1 and its mutant THI1(A140V), responsible for the thiamin auxotrophy in a A. thaliana mutant line, aiming to clarify the impact of this mutation in the stability and activity of THI1. Recently, the THI1 orthologue (THI4) was revealed to be responsible for the donation of the sulfur atom from a cysteine residue to the thiazole ring in the thiamine intermediate. In this context, we carried out a cysteine quantification in THI1 and THI1(A140V) using electron spin resonance (ESR). These data showed that THI1(A140V) contains more sulfur-containing cysteines than THI1, indicating that the function as a sulfur donor is conserved, but the rate of donation reaction is somehow affected. Also, the bound compounds were isolated from both proteins and are present in different amounts in each protein. Unfolding studies presented differences in melting temperatures and also in the concentration of guanidine at which half of the protein unfolds, thus showing that THI1(A140V) has its conformational stability affected by the mutation. Hence, despite keeping its function in the early steps during the synthesis of TPP precursor, our studies have shown a decrease in the THI1(A140V) stability, which might be slowing down the biological activity of the mutant, and thus contributing to thiamin auxotrophy. 
Contribution of hydrophobic residues to the stability of human lysozyme: calorimetric studies and X-ray structural analysis of the five isoleucine to valine mutants.	In order to understand the contribution of hydrophobic residues to the conformational stability of human lysozyme, five Ile mutants (Ile --> Val) in the interior of the protein were constructed. The thermodynamic parameters characterizing the denaturation of these mutant proteins were determined by scanning calorimetry, and the three-dimensional structure of each mutant protein was solved at high resolution by X-ray crystallography. The thermodynamic analyses at 64.9 degrees C and at pH 2.7 revealed the following. (1) The stabilities of all the mutant proteins were decreased as compared with that of the wild-type protein. (2) The changes in the calorimetric enthalpies were larger than those in the Gibbs energies, and were compensated by entropy changes. (3) The destabilization mechanism of the mutant proteins differs, depending on the location of the mutation sites. X-ray analyses showed that the overall structures of all the mutant human lysozymes examined were identical to that of the wild-type protein, and only small structural rearrangements were observed locally around some of the mutation sites. The most striking change among the mutant proteins was found in the mutant protein, 159V, which contains a new water molecule in the cavity created by the mutation. The thermodynamic stabilities of the mutant proteins are discussed in light of the high-resolution X-ray structures of the wild-type and five mutant human lysozymes examined.
Bisaldehyde allosteric effectors as molecular ratchets and probes.	Four new series of monoaldehyde bisacids and bisaldehyde bisacids with varying chain lengths have been synthesized and evaluated as allosteric effectors of hemoglobin. Molecular modeling, oxygen equilibrium, and crystallographic studies were combined for structure/function studies. Crystallographic analyses of the bisaldehydes reveal that Schiff base interaction occurred exclusively between Val 1 alpha and Lys 99 alpha of the opposite alpha chain even though the two terminal Val 1 alpha nitrogens are ideally spaced to also form cross-links. The reason for the observed mode of binding appears to be the influence of chain direction set by key substitutions on the bisaldehyde molecule. Even longer chain derivatives that could overcome the direction set by the key functional groups bind in the same manner. These studies support the general conclusion that long flexible molecules prefer to bind along cavity walls, like double-sided molecular sticky tape, rather than span large open spaces with few chances for interaction. The cross-linked bisaldehydes bind at the same site when incubated under both allosteric states and exhibit reduced cooperativity with a significant decrease in oxygen affinity. The chain length acts as a molecular ratchet and dictates the degree of allosteric effect observed. The tighter the cross-link, the greater the constraint on the tense- (T-) state and the stronger the allosteric effect that is produced. The monoaldehyde bisacids bind in the same fashion with Schiff base formation at Val 1 alpha while the acid that replaces the second aldehyde moiety forms a salt bridge with Lys 99 alpha of the opposite subunit. This class of molecules has weaker allosteric effector activity as would be expected with replacement of one covalent bond by a salt bridge. The importance of Lys 99 alpha on the allosteric equilibrium is confirmed.
Variants of somatotropin in cattle: gene frequencies in major dairy breeds and associated milk production.	The amino acid sequence of bovine somatotropin (bST) varies at position 127 where either valine or leucine is found. The frequencies of leucine127 and valine127 bST gene alleles in cows (n = 302) and sires (n = 70) from major dairy breeds (Holstein, Brown Swiss, Guernsey, Jersey, and Ayrshire) were determined using DNA extracted from whole blood or spermatozoa. A 428 base pair fragment of the bST gene was amplified using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and variants of the bST gene were detected as polymorphisms by Alu I restriction endonuclease digestion of PCR products. Restriction enzyme DNA fragments for the leucine127 variant were 265, 96, 51, and 16 base pair and for the valine127 variant were 265, 147, and 16 base pair as a polymorphism of bST was present in the 147 base pair DNA fragment. Frequencies of leucine127 and valine127 alleles for cows (n = 302) were 1.0 and 0 for Brown Swiss, .93 and .07 for Holstein, .92 and .08 for Guernsey, .79 and .21 for Ayrshire, and .56 and .44 for Jersey, respectively. In Holstein sires used for artificial insemination (n = 70), the frequency of leucine127 and valine127 alleles was .96 and .04. Estimates of transmitting ability for milk production tended to be greater for Holstein cows that were homozygous for leucine127 bST and Jersey cows that were homozygous for valine127 bST whereas Holstein sires with different bST genotypes were similar. In summary, frequencies of alleles for the bST gene were not similar in different dairy breeds and estimates of milk production were correlated with bST gene variant in cows but not sires.
Ultrafast measurements of geminate recombination of NO with site-specific mutants of human myoglobin.	Flash photolysis studies of NO recombination to heme proteins offer a direct probe of protein structural changes on the tens of picoseconds timescale where they can be compared with molecular dynamics simulations. The geminate recombination of NO to site-specific mutants of human myoglobin (Mb) was studied following photodissociation of the MbNO form. Single amino acid changes were introduced at positions Val68, His64, Lys45 and Asp60 because motions of residues at these positions are generally regarded as important for the mechanism of ligand binding. In sharp contrast to the properties of simple porphyrin-NO complexes, the rebinding kinetics are found to be non-exponential for all mutants, even in aqueous solution at 298 K. The Val68 and His64 mutants substantially affect the NO rebinding rates but, surprisingly, so do changes on the protein surface that are further away from the iron. These changes in kinetics occur on a tens of picoseconds timescale, and therefore there is either a fast communication between protein residues over quite long distances or there are subtle differences in protein structure that exert great control over the reaction dynamics. Various models for the rebinding kinetics are evaluated. A model-free approach to data analysis using the maximum entropy method is found to be most useful. This analysis shows that the rate distributions are very different for the mutants, but are generally bimodal.
Conformation of valine side chains in ribonuclease T1 determined by NMR studies of homonuclear and heteronuclear 3J coupling constants.	A conformational analysis of the valine side chains of ribonuclease T1 (RNase T1) was performed using NMR spectroscopy, in particular homonuclear (1H, 1H and 13C, 13C) and heteronuclear (1H, 15N and 1H, 13C) vicinal spin-spin coupling constants as obtained from E.COSY-type NMR experiments. The coupling constants related to the chi 1 dihedral angle in valine, 3JH alpha H beta, 3JNH beta, 3JC'H beta, 3JH alpha C gamma 1, 3JH alpha C gamma 2, 3JC'C gamma 1, and 3JC'C gamma 2, were evaluated in a quantitative manner. The analysis of 3J data allowed for the stereospecific assignment of the valine methyl resonances. On the basis of various models for motional averaging of coupling constants, a fit of the torsion angles chi 1 to a set of the experimental 3J coupling constants (3JH alpha H beta, 3JNH beta, 3JC'H beta) was carried out. The resulting side-chain conformations were examined with respect to NOE distance informations. Single rotameric states emerged for Val16, Val67, Val79, and Val101, while conformational equilibria between staggered rotamers were found for Val33 and Val78. Using a different model approach, Val52 and Val89 are also likely to exhibit unimodal chi 1 angle distributions. The analysis was found to depend critically on the set of Karplus parameters used. Except for Val52 and Val78, the predominant rotamers obtained from 3J coupling informations agree with the conformation in the crystal structure of ribonuclease T1 (Martinez-Oyanedel et al., 1991).
A high-resolution solid-state 13C-NMR study on [1-13C]Ala and [3-13C]Ala and [1-13C]Leu and Val-labelled bacteriorhodopsin. Conformation and dynamics of transmembrane helices, loops and termini, and hydration-induced conformational change.	We have recorded 100.7-MHz high-resolution solid-state 13C-NMR spectra of [3-13C]Ala, [1-13C]Ala-labelled, Leu-labelled and Val-labelled bacteriorhodopsin (bR), to analyze the conformation and dynamics of transmembrane alpha helices and hydration-induced conformational changes. We assigned the 13C-NMR signals of these 13C-labelled amino acid residues to portions of the transmembrane alpha helices, loops and N-terminus and C-terminus, based on the conformation-dependent 13C chemical shift. The assignment of peaks to the transmembrane alpha helices is straightforward in view of the characteristic 13C chemical shifts of the C beta and carbonyl carbons, referred to the data of the model system. The signals of the transmembrane alpha helices were further divided into three or four peaks which are ascribed to either a dispersion of torsion angles of the alpha helices or variation of environments around the helices. In addition, we found that conformation of the N-terminus and C-terminus of bR is virtually the random-coil form which undergoes rapid reorientational motion in the hydrated system. Further, we show that the higher-order (secondary and/or tertiary) structure of bR is influenced by the hydration/dehydration process of the purple membrane, as viewed from the peak profile of the Ala C beta 13C signals. This change of structure occurs between relative humidities of 2% and 4%, consistent with the shift of the absorption maxima of retinal, which arise from the protonation/deprotonation processes of the Schiff base. In contrast, no such change of the carbonyl signals occurs for the Leu, Val and Ala residues. For the latter two residues, some spectral changes were noted at the stage of full hydration.
The hierarchy of complexes and compact structures of trivaline with nucleic acids. III. Complexes of trivaline with trinucleotides forms a rod-like structure with length of about 1000 A in solution]	We demonstrated the ability of trivaline in the course of interaction with certain trinucleotides in solution to form extended fibre-like structures with lengths of up to several thousand angstroms. Such structures were observed for complexes of trivaline with both deoxyribo- and ribonucleotides with homopurine, homopyrimidine, or random sequences, with or without terminal 5'-phosphate. A model of organization of such structures is proposed. It is based on tetramer complex of trivaline with short nucleotides, two structural units of which, consisting of trivaline tetramer and two trinucleotides, form the octamer complex. It has three perpendicular axes of symmetry of the second order. The spatial location of bases in this structure is additionally fixed by nucleopeptide interactions. The latter create favourable conditions for arranging hydrogen bonds between trinucleotides belonging to different tetramer complexes and stacking interactions between the bases of each nucleotide. Octamer complexes are able to form regular aggregates in the form of a "stack", consisting of dozens of elementary units. These aggregates can be electron microscopically visualized as extended fibre-like structures.
The significance of valine 33 as a ligand-specific epitope of transforming growth factor alpha.	Although binding of epidermal growth factor (EGF) and transforming growth factor alpha (TGFalpha) to the EGF receptor (EGFR) is mutually competitive, their binding is not identical, and their biological activities are not always equivalent. To probe for ligand-specific interactions, we have synthesized analogues of TGFalpha with modifications to the residue lying between the fourth and fifth cysteines (the "hinge"). Although this residue lies in a structurally conserved region of the protein, it is not conserved within the EGFR ligand family. Our results show that in TGFalpha there is a preference for a bulky hydrophobic hinge residue; this contrasts with EGF, for which a hydrogen bond donor functionality is preferred. Sequence analysis of the human EGFR ligands revealed that the nature of the hinge residue correlated with the sequence in the B-loop beta-sheet. As this region is an important determinant in recognition of TGFalpha by the chicken EGFR, we assessed the mitogenicity of the TGFalpha hinge mutants, as well as the other EGFR ligands, using chicken embryo fibroblasts. The preference of the chicken EGFR for TGFalpha hinge mutants with hydrophobic side chains paralleled that of the human EGFR. Betacellulin and heparin-binding EGF-like growth factor also possess an hydrophobic hinge; both were at least as potent as TGFalpha for chicken embryo fibroblasts. EGF and amphiregulin, both with hydrogen bond donor functionalities at their hinge, displayed markedly decreased in potency by comparison with TGFalpha. We propose that EGFR ligands can be subclassified into TGFalpha-like and EGF-like and that this is of functional significance, identifying a potential mechanism whereby EGFR can discriminate between its ligands.
Bestatin analogue from Streptomyces neyagawaensis SL-387.	A bestatin analogue, (2S,3R)-3-amino-2-hydroxy-4-phenylbutanoyl-L-valine (AHPA-Val), from the culture filtrate of Streptomyces neyagawaensis SL-387 was obtained in a chemically defined medium containing DL-3-amino-3-phenylpropionic acid. AHPA-Val was 6 times (IC50 = 1.2 micrograms/ml) as strong as bestatin (IC50 = 7.0 micrograms/ml) against porcine kidney microsomal aminopeptidase N, and 4 times (5.6 micrograms/ml) as strong as bestatin (IC50 = 20.7 micrograms/ml) against aminopeptidase N of human metastatic fibrosarcoma HT1080. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report on the microbial production of AHPA-Val.
Comparison of ethylene, propylene and styrene 7,8-oxide in vitro adduct formation on N-terminal valine in human haemoglobin and on N-7-guanine in human DNA.	Epoxides react at various nucleophilic sites in macromolecules such as haemoglobin and DNA. To study the reaction rate constants of ethylene oxide (EO), propylene oxide (PO) and styrene 7,8-oxide (SO) towards two of these positions, i.e., the N-terminal valine in haemoglobin and N-7-guanine in DNA was the central aim of this investigation. These two reactive sites are the most studied haemoglobin and DNA adducts, respectively. Further attention, therefore, was also paid to the applicability in vivo of the in vitro determined reaction constants. The determination of the second-order rate constants between EO and PO and N-terminal valine in Hb [2.7 l (mol Hb h)-1 and 1.0 l (mol Hb h)-1, respectively] were consistent with the literature values. The constants for the reaction with N-7-guanine [16x10(-3) l (mol DNA nucleotide h)-1 and 7. 7x10(-3) l (mol DNA nucleotide h)-1, respectively] were lower than previously published values, probably due to differences in the methodology used. The use of the in vitro obtained values to model the in vivo situation lead to a consistent picture for EO and PO. In contrast, for SO the in vitro ratio between the adduct formation on N-terminal valine [1.5 l (mol Hb h)-1] and N-7-guanine [0.71x10(-3) l (mol DNA nucleotide h)-1] was about two orders of magnitude greater than for the in vivo situation. This was probably due to a lower than expected reactivity of SO towards N-terminal valine in vivo. Further research is needed to elucidate whether the use of SO in vitro, contrasting with the in vivo experiments in which SO was metabolically formed from styrene, could entail an explanation for this discrepancy. Concerning the methodological part, the use of dipeptide standards to replace the alkylated globins as standard lead to an improvement of the method. Especially the commercial availability of the standards, their stability and accurately known adduct content will make them to the standards of choice in the future.
Synthesis and characterization of more potent analogues of hirudin fragment 1-47 containing non-natural amino acids.	Hirudin is the most potent and specific inhibitor of thrombin, a key enzyme in the coagulation process existing in equilibrium between its procoagulant (fast) and anticoagulant (slow) form. In a previous study, we described the solid-phase synthesis of a Trp3 analogue of fragment 1-47 of hirudin HM2, which displayed approximately 5-fold higher thrombin inhibitory potency relative to that of the natural product [De Filippis, V., et al. (1995) Biochemistry 34, 9552-9564]. By combining automated and manual peptide synthesis, here we have produced in high yields seven analogues of fragment 1-47 containing natural and non-natural amino acids. In particular, we have replaced Val1 with tert-butylglycine (tBug), Ser2 with Arg, and Tyr3 with Phe, cyclohexylalanine (Cha), Trp, alpha-naphthylalanine (alphaNal), and beta-naphthylalanine (betaNal). The crude reduced peptides are able to fold almost quantitatively into the disulfide-cross-linked species, whose unique alignment (Cys6-Cys14, Cys16-Cys28, and Cys22-Cys37) has been shown to be identical to that of the natural fragment. The results of conformational characterization provide evidence that synthetic peptides retain the structural features of the natural species, whereas thrombin inhibition data indicate that the synthetic analogues are all more potent inhibitors of thrombin. In particular, Val --> tBug exchange leads to a 3-fold increase in binding, interpreted as arising from a favorable reduction of the entropy of binding, due to the presence of the more symmetric side chain of tBug relative to that of Val. The S2R analogue binds 24- and 125-fold more tightly than the natural fragment to the fast or slow form of thrombin. These results are explained by considering that Arg2 may favorably couple to Glu192, a key residue involved in the slow to fast transition, thus stabilizing the slow form. Replacement of Tyr3 with more hydrophobic residues having different side chain orientations and electronic structures improves binding by 2-40-fold, suggesting that nonpolar interactions and shape-dependent packing effects strongly influence binding at this position. Overall, these results provide new insights for elucidating the mechanism of hirudin-thrombin recognition at the molecular level and highlight new strategies for designing more potent and selective inhibitors of thrombin.
X-ray structures and analysis of 11 cyclosporin derivatives complexed with cyclophilin A.	Eight new X-ray structures of different cyclophilin A/cyclosporin-derivative complexes are presented. These structures, combined with the existing three published cyclosporin complexes, provide a useful structural database for the analysis of protein-ligand interactions. The effect of small chemical differences on protein-ligand hydrogen-bonding, van der Waals interactions and water structure is presented.
Effect of exceptional valine replacement for highly conserved alanine-55 on the catalytic site structure of chymotrypsin-like serine protease.	The catalytic triad consisting of His57, Asp102 and Ser195, which is completely conserved within the chymotrypsin-like serine protease family, plays a central role in catalysis. Highly conserved Ala55 also likely plays an important role in catalysis due to its location just behind the catalytic triad. The only exception to the conserved Ala55 in mammalian serine proteases is Val55 in bovine protein C. Interestingly, it has been demonstrated that the replacement of Ala55 with Thr results in the reduced activity of plasmin in patients with venous thrombosis and with retinochoroidal vascular disorders, which indicates the importance of Ala55 in catalysis. In the present study, we constructed a bovine protein C model which shows that Val55 causes no serious rearrangement of the catalytic site structure. We also constructed an A55T variant model of trypsin for comparison. The A55T substitution alters His57 into an inactive conformation, forming an unusual hydrogen bond between Thr55 O gamma 1 and His57 N epsilon 2. The present study shows that the Ala/Val55 residue contributes heavily to the active conformation of His57 and enables His57 to accept a proton from Ser195 O gamma effectively.
