Vanadium redox cycling, lipid peroxidation and co-oxygenation of benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol.	Mechanism of lipid peroxidation triggered by vanadium in human term placental microsomes was reinvestigated in vitro. Production of lipid peroxyl radicals was estimated from co-oxygenation of benzo(a)pyrene and benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol. Vanadyl(IV), but not vanadate(V) caused a dose-dependent co-oxygenation. Vanadate(V) required the presence of reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate to trigger co-oxygenation of benzo(a)pyrene-7,8-dihydrodiol. To determine the role of pre-formed lipid hydroperoxides, the results obtained with partially peroxidized linoleic acid were compared with those of fresh linoleate. Superoxide dismutase inhibited the co-oxygenation of reaction when fresh linoleic acid was used. To further characterize the role of superoxide anion-radical in the vanadium redox cycling, the increase of optical density of vanadate(V) dissolved in Tris buffer was measured at 328 nm during the addition of KO2. The rate of this reaction producing peroxy-vanadyl complex was decreased by superoxide dismutase, especially, in the presence of catalase. It is suggested that vanadium catalyzes two separate processes, both leading to enhanced lipid peroxidation: (i) initiation, dependent on superoxide and triggered by peroxy-vanadyl; (ii) propagation, dependent on pre-formed lipid hydroperoxide not sensitive to superoxide dismutase. It is postulated that the vanadium-triggered initiation of lipid peroxidation may be crucial for toxicity in organs with limited endogenous lipid peroxidation.
Desferrioxamine enhances the reactivity of vanadium (IV) and vanadium (V) toward ferri- and ferrocytochrome c.	Ligands, especially desferrioxamine, affect the rate at which vanadium reduces or oxidizes cytochrome c. Whether reduction or oxidation occurs, and how fast, depends on the nature of the ligand, the state of reduction of the vanadium, the pH (6.0, 7.0, or 7.4), and the availability of oxygen. In general, oxidation of ferrocytochrome c was favored by (1) low pH, (2) an oxidized state of the vanadium, (3) the presence of oxygen, and (4) more strongly binding ligands (desferrioxamine much greater than histidine = ATP greater than EDTA greater than albumin greater than aquo). Thus, at pH 6.0, desferrioxamine accelerated the V(V)-catalyzed ferrocytochrome c oxidation 160-fold aerobically, and 3500-fold anaerobically. In general, strongly binding ligands slowed oxidations, especially at higher pH. Desferrioxamine was unique among the five ligands in that it not only accelerated oxidation of ferrocytochrome c at pH 6.0, but at pH 7.4 the redox balance shifted to the point where it paradoxically reduced ferricytochrome c. V(V) is an improbable electron donor, but desferrioxamine will reduce cytochrome c, and V(V) accelerates this process. Oxidation of cytochrome c by V(V):desferrioxamine was faster anaerobically, and reduction by V(IV):desferrioxamine was faster aerobically. Although V(V) did not oxidize ferrocytochrome c at pH 7.4, V(IV) did, provided oxygen and desferrioxamine were both present. V(IV):desferrioxamine almost completely reduced ferricytochrome c, and this reduction was followed by a slow, progressive oxidation. This latter oxidation of cytochrome c is mediated by active species generated in the reaction between V(IV):desferrioxamine and oxygen, because none of these reagents alone can induce oxidation at a comparable rate. The mediating species were transient, and generated in reactions with oxygen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Optimum culture conditions for the epoxidation of cis-propenylphosphonate to fosfomycin by Cellvibrio gilvus.	Approximately 470 strains of various microorganisms were tested for their ability to epoxidize cis-propenylphosphonate (PPOH) to (-)-cis-1,2-epoxypropylphosphonate (fosfomycin, FOM). Cellvibrio gilvus KY 3412 was selected as the best strain. To obtain higher activity, FOM-resistant strains were derived by N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine mutagenesis. Mutant KY 3413, showing ten times higher FOM resistance, was selected. The conditions for the conversion of PPOH to FOM during the cultivation of the mutant were optimized. The addition of both cobalt and vanadium ions to the culture medium greatly stimulated the conversion. Furthermore, when the pH was maintained at pH 8.0 during cultivation, the highest conversion was attained. The molar conversion yield of FOM was inversely dependent on the initial concentration of PPOH, that is, conversions of 100% at less than 0.05% PPOH and of 40% at 0.5% PPOH were attained after 5 days cultivation.
Identification of Vanabin-interacting protein 1 (VIP1) from blood cells of the vanadium-rich ascidian Ascidia sydneiensis samea.	Several species of ascidians, the so-called tunicates, accumulate extremely high levels of vanadium ions in their blood cells. We previously identified a family of vanadium-binding proteins, named Vanabins, from blood cells and blood plasma of a vanadium-rich ascidian, Ascidia sydneiensis samea. The 3-dimensional structure of Vanabin2, the predominant vanadium-binding protein in blood cells, has been revealed, and the vanadium-binding properties of Vanabin2 have been studied in detail. Here, we used Far Western blotting to identify a novel protein that interacts with Vanabin2 from a blood cell cDNA library. The protein, named Vanabin-interacting protein 1 (VIP1), was localized in the cytoplasm of signet ring cells and giant cells. Using a two-hybrid method, we revealed that VIP1 interacted with Vanabins 1, 2, 3, and 4 but not with Vanabin P. The N-terminal domain of VIP1 was shown to be important for the interaction. Further, Vanabin1 was found to interact with all of the other Vanabins. These results suggest that VIP1 and Vanabin1 act as metal chaperones or target proteins in vanadocytes.
Differential patterns of accumulation and depuration of dietary selenium and vanadium during metamorphosis in the Gray Treefrog (Hyla versicolor).	Selenium (Se) and vanadium (V) are contaminants commonly found in aquatic systems affected by wastes derived from fossil fuels. To examine their effects on a widely distributed species of amphibian, we exposed gray tree frogs (Hyla versicolor) to Se (as SeO₂) or V (as NaVO₃) in their diet from the early larval period to metamorphosis. Concentrations of Se in Se-enriched food were 1.0 (Se control), 7.5 (Se low), and 32.7 (Se high) μg/g dw. Concentrations of V in V-enriched food were 3.0 (V control), 132.1 (V low), and 485.7 (V high) μg/g dw. Although we observed bioaccumulation of both metals throughout the larval period, no effects on growth, survival, metabolic rate, or lipid content were observed. Se concentrations in tissues did not vary among life stages, neither in Se low nor Se high treatments, such that maximum accumulation had occurred by the mid-larval period. In addition, there was no evidence of depuration of Se in either the Se low or the Se high treatments during metamorphosis. A strikingly different pattern of accumulation and depuration occurred in V-exposed individuals. In treatments V low and V high, maximum body burdens occurred in "premetamorphs" (i.e., animals with developed forelimbs but in which tail resorption had not begun), whereas body burdens in animals having completed metamorphosis were much lower and similar to those in larvae. These results suggest that compared with Se-exposed animals, V-exposed animals were able to depurate a substantial amount of accumulated V during the metamorphic period. In an ecologic context, it appears that amphibians exposed to Se during the larval period may serve as a vector of the metal to terrestrial predators, yet potential transfer of accumulated V to predators would largely be restricted to the aquatic habitat.
Placental vanadium in gestational diabetes mellitus.	Although many studies in animal models and in cell cultures have shown that vanadate has insulin-like effects, it has not been studied in human diabetes mellitus. In this study the levels of vanadium in human placentae from 23 pregnancies complicated by gestational diabetes mellitus were compared with 18 uncomplicated non-diabetic pregnancies closely matched for maternal age, gravidity, and gestational age. Using the unpaired Student's t-test, the mid-disc placental levels in gestational diabetes (7.62 +/- 1.29 micrograms/g dry weight) were significantly lower (p less than 0.05) than controls (8.73 +/- 1.85 micrograms/g dry weight). These findings appear to be independent of placental size and birthweight. When these data were analyzed according to treatment, the vanadium levels in insulin-treated cases (8.07 +/- 1.32 micrograms/g dry weight) were not significantly different from the matched controls (8.84 +/- 1.69 micrograms/dry weight); the levels in noninsulin treated cases (7.08 +/- 1.25 micrograms/g dry weight), however, were significantly (p less than 0.005) lower than controls (8.99 +/- 1.96 micrograms/g dry weight). It is interesting to speculate that there may be increased binding of vanadium to maternal tissues in human diabetes mellitus when insulin is deficient.
High vanadate interferes with the Fiske-Subbarow determination of inorganic phosphate.	We evaluated the possibility that oxyions of vanadium might react with molybdate and, in that manner, interfere with the Fiske-Subbarow colorimetric determination of inorganic phosphate. Phosphate (Pi) standard curves were prepared (0.03-0.30 mumole/ml) in the presence and absence of oxyvanadium solutions (2 X 10(-4) M) prepared from ortho- and metavanadate. Molybdate prepared in 5 N sulfuric acid was added to each standard. Upon addition of a reducing agent to develop color of the phosphomolybdate complex, a less intense color was observed at any given Pi concentration in the presence of oxyvanadium species. The slope of the regression line for the Pi standard curve in the presence of 2 X 10(-4) M oxyvanadium species was markedly depressed. The effect of oxyvanadium was similar when solutions were prepared from ortho- and metavanadate, despite differences in pH of these solutions. In addition, in the final reaction the pH was similar in the presence and absence of oxyvanadium, independent of the source of vanadate used to prepare solutions. Thus, interference by oxyvanadium did not appear to be related to changes in pH of samples containing vanadium oxyions. Interference was concentration dependent and the minimal concentration of vanadium oxyions that interfered was 5 X 10(-5) M. The effects of oxyvanadium (2 X 10(-4) M) on Mg+2-dependent and Na+-K+-ATPase activities in a renal microsomal preparation were then evaluated through the measurement of inorganic phosphate generation. Enzyme activities were determined with and without correction for interference by oxyvanadium with the method of Fiske and Subbarow. A significant artifactual depression of Mg+2 ATPase activity, but not Na+-K+-ATPase activity, was consistently observed when enzyme activities were not corrected for interference by oxyvanadium with the measurement of inorganic phosphate. These data indicate that when effects of high vanadate concentrations (5 X 10(-5) M) on ATP hydrolyzing enzymes are evaluated through changes in Pi generation, artifactual depression of enzyme activity may occur.
A conformational transition of the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium transport ATPase induced by vanadate.	Vanadate binding to sarcoplasmic reticulum vesicles results in the loss of the externally located high affinity calcium binding sites of the calcium transport ATPase. Conversely the occupation by calcium of the internally located low affinity sites in the vanadate enzyme complex leads to the release of vanadate. Since the total number of calcium binding sites is not diminished by vanadate binding but slightly increases we conclude that vanadate binding induces a transition of the enzymes external high to internal low affinity calcium binding sites. The transposition of external to internal calcium binding sites is accompanied by a definite change in the structure of the sarcoplasmic reticulum membranes. On vanadate binding the asymmetrically arranged electron dense protein particles become symmetrically distributed.
Chelate antidotes for sodium vanadate and vanadyl sulfate intoxication in mice.	Eighteen different chelating agents, including all of those previously shown to have a protective action in vanadium intoxication, have been compared as antidotes for acute vanadium intoxication using mice. Of these compounds, those found to be effective antidotes for both vanadate (VO3(-3)) and vanadyl (VO2+) include ascorbic acid, deferoxamine, D-penicillamine, sodium calcium diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (Na3CaDTPA), Na2CaEDTA, glutathione, Tiron, and ethylenediaminetetra(methylene phosphonate). Of the compounds examined, ascorbic acid appeared to be the most promising for human use. When administered at the levels used in this study, it is an effective antidote for intoxication due to either the vanadate or the vanadyl ion. Certain compounds are able to act as antidotes for vanadate solely by virtue of their action as a reducing agent; when these compounds are unable to form complexes with the reduction product (vanadyl ion), they are effective antidotes for the higher oxidation state only when the concentration of vanadyl produced is less than the level that results in toxic effects.
Effects of vanadate in cultured rat heart muscle cells. Vanadate transport, intracellular binding and vanadate-induced changes in beating and in active cation flux.	Cultured rat heart muscle cells have been used to study uptake and intracellular binding of Na483VO4 (vanadate), as well as the influence of vanadate on beating and 86Rb+ uptake of these cells. 1. Vanadate is taken up into cultured rat heart muscle cells in an energy-independent manner by a saturable transport system (Km approximately 60 microM, V approximately 200 pmol per mg protein per min at 37 degrees C). Analysis of intracellular binding of vanadate reveals a curved Scatchard plot indicating more than one binding site. Maximal binding amounts to 3 . 10(9) molecules of vanadate per cell. 2. Vanadate exerts a positive chronotropic and inotropic effect and increases automaticity. First effects can be seen at 1 . 10(-7) M Na3VO4. Concentrations higher than 1. 10(-3) M induce toxic effects (arrhythmias, fibrillation and stand-still of the cell). 3. Vanadate-induced alterations of beating is paralleled by a vanadate-induced stimulation of (86Rb+ + K+) uptake into the cells of up to 75%. Maximal stimulation is obtained at concentrations of 1 . 10(-4)--1 . 10(-3) M vanadate. The stimulation is thought to be due to an increased activity of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase, since it can be inhibited by ouabain. This result is in contrast to in vitro experiments with purified membrane preparations of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase of different organs, where an inhibition of (Na+ + K+)-ATPase by vanadate has been found. 4. The results indicate a possible role of vanadate as an endogenous regulator of active cation flux in heart tissue.
Interaction of vanadium and phosphorus in chicks.	Studies were carried out to determine the effect of dietary vanadium on chicks fed phosphorus deficient and control diets. Vanadium at 50 mg/kg of diet decreased growth of both control and deficient chicks. The high mortality among the phosphorus deficient chicks was significantly alleviated by the presence of vanadium. The increased relative ventricular weights found among the deficient chicks was also alleviated by the presence of dietary vanadium. Vanadium fed at 10 or 20 mg/kg diet did not reduce growth rate but significantly reduced mortality among chicks fed the deficient diet and decreased the relative ventricle weights. Time course studies revealed that chicks are hatched with high relative ventricular weights (.83% of body wt) and remain at that level among chicks fed the phosphorus deficient diet. The addition of vanadium or phosphate to the diet resulted in a progressive decrease in relative ventricular weights. The inclusion of vanadium in the diet resulted in increased serum phosphorus levels among the deficient chicks that may be related to the decrease in mortality and relative ventricle weights.
Bioaccumulation of vanadium and other trace metals in livers of Alaskan cetaceans and pinnipeds.	Concentrations for 38 elements are routinely measured in the marine mammal liver tissues archived in the National Biomonitoring Specimen Bank (NBSB). Results show that hepatic concentrations of vanadium, selenium, silver, cadmium, and mercury are positively correlated with age for beluga whales (Delphinapterus leucas) and of vanadium, selenium, cadmium, and mercury with length for ringed seals (Phoca hispada). Many researchers have reported linear correlations of hepatic selenium, cadmium, and mercury with marine mammal age; however, there is only one other report of a linear correlation of hepatic vanadium with marine mammal age. Vanadium levels are at or below detection limits (< or = 0.01 micrograms/g) in liver tissues of U.S. east coast marine mammals from the NBSB but are present at levels ranging from 0.02 to 1.2 micrograms/g of wet weight in the tissues of Alaskan marine mammals. Although only three bearded seal (Eriganthus barbatus) and three bow-head whale (Balaena mysticetus) liver samples have been analyzed, hepatic vanadium levels also increased with animal size for these species. The presence of relatively high levels of vanadium in the livers of these Alaskan animals may reflect a unique dietary source of vanadium, a unique geochemical source of vanadium, or anthropogenic input to the Alaskan marine environment.
The bidirectional effect of vanadyl ion on the oxygen affinity of human hemoglobin.	The bidirectional effects of vanadyl on the oxygen affinity of hemoglobin depend on the mole ratio of vanadyl to Hb(R). In low R, the vanadyl ion increases Hb's oxygen affinity due to DPG hydrolysis. The lowered oxygen affinity in higher R is mainly due to the reactive-oxygen-species, probably superoxide, induced oxidation of Fe(II)-Hb to Fe(III)-Hb. The conformation change due to vanadyl binding contribute also to the lowered oxygen binding, but is monotonously decreasing with increasing of R values.
