Octreotide in liver cirrhosis: a salvage for variceal bleeding can be a gunshot for kidneys.	The renal effects of octreotide, used for bleeding esophageal varices in cirrhosis, are controversial.
Photoinduced collagen cross-linking: a new approach to venous insufficiency.	What little research has been done on methods of venous valve function recovery with radiofrequency has had disappointing results. Valvuloplasty has some supporters, but the majority of physicians do not consider it a valid therapeutic option.
Controlled study of increasing venous tone in primary varicose veins by oral administration of Ruscus aculeatus and trimethylhespiridinchalcone]	In a randomized double blind study, 50 patients suffering from trunk or branch varicosis were orally treated with either a commercial preparation of Ruscus extract, trimethyl hesperidine chalcone and ascorbic acid (Phlebodril), or a placebo over 2 weeks. Changes of the venous tonus were measured by means of venous occlusion plethysmography in rest position (venous capacity, venous distensibility) as well as during (active) exercise (expelled blood volume). All parameters showed a tendency towards improvement in the verum group. The changes were partly significant (p less than 0.5). The course of the study suggests that the period of treatment possibly was too short to obtain the full pharmacologic effect.
Paresthesia sequelae of the thigh after sclerosis of the internal saphenous arch]	The authors describe an incident following the scleroses of the long sapheno-femoral junction. This was due to the attrition of the sensitive branches of the internal and external cutaneous muscles, and it draws our attention to the necessity for perfected technique, despite possible anatomical variations.
Varicose veins: A comparison of surgery and infection/compression sclerotherapy. Five-year follow-up.	A randomised controlled trial was carried out to compare the clinical outcome 5 years after inpatient surgery and outpatient injection/compression sclerotherapy. 91.3% of those originally treated by injection/compression sclerotherapy and 93.9% of those originally treated surgically were seen at follow-up. 40% of patients treated initially by injection/compression sclerotherapy and 24.2% of those treated surgically were given further treatment. The probability of having no further treatment is significantly greater for those treated surgically. The improved outcome after surgery increased with age, being most striking in those aged over 45. The implications of the 5-year follow-up findings for the long-term cost of treatment are discussed.
