The pathogenesis of atheroma and the rationale for its treatment.	Several theories have been proposed to explain the mechanism causing atheroma; these include endothelial cell injury, smooth muscle cell proliferation, lipid deposition and an abnormality of the vasa vasorum. Based on these hypotheses, new therapies aimed at causing regression or preventing the development of atheroma include heparin, calcium antagonists, beta-receptor antagonists, lipid lowering agents and drugs that manipulate platelets.
The innateness of coronary artery: Vasa vasorum.	Because heart originates from primitive endocardial tube (ventral aorta) embryologically, coronary arteries that supply this tube can be thought as "cardiac vasa vasorum" like arterial vasa vasorum that supply peripheral arteries. Coronary arteries have vasodilative reaction to noradrenaline, different from the most arteries that show vasoconstriction. This phenomenon is similar to vasa vasorum that are insensitive to noradrenaline and has its own vasoregulation. Coronary arteries can supply blood from epicardium, myocardium to endocardium under normal physiological conditions. But heart having a significant myocardial hypertrophy can be susceptible to subendocardial ischemia because the metabolic demands of hypertrophic myocardium cannot be met by a parallel increase of coronary myocardial capillaries. This peculiar characteristic of coronary arteries is similar to vasa vasorum that give rise to ischemic necrosis of media of the host vessel under chronic hypertension. Inherency of coronary arteries is the same endarteries as vasa vasorum. Coronary arteries have many smooth muscle fibers than elastic fibers in media, which protect them to collapse during systole to some extent. This feature also is similar to vasa vasorum. The above similarities support the hypothesis that coronary arteries are a kind of vasa vasorum.
Neoplastic thrombosis from a uterine cancer via the ovarian vein. Venous collateralization via the vasa vasorum in occlusions of the renal vein and the inferior vena cava]	Renal vein and inf. vena caval occlusion by neoplastic thrombus mediated by the ovarian vein from an occult uterine carcinoma is an extraordinary diagnosis. The special angiographic feature consists in demonstrating the renal venous drainage via vasa vasorum of the renal vein and inf. vena cava.
