Quantitative analysis of lymphangiogenic markers in human colorectal cancer.	Lymphatic spread of colorectal cancer cells to regional lymph nodes is one of the early events in metastatic cancer, and is often associated with distant metastatic spread and a poor prognosis. This study examined lymphangiogenic factors, and in particular a panel of newly discovered lymphangiogenic markers, in colorectal cancer tissues from a cohort of patients. Paired samples (background normal mucosa and cancer) of colon tissue were obtained from patients with colorectal cancer. The expression and levels of the VEGF-C and VEGF-D cytokines, the VEGF receptors VEGFR-2 and VEGFR-3, and newly described lymphatic endothelial markers, LYVE-1, Prox-1, podoplanin and 5'-nucleotidase were assessed. RNA was extracted from the frozen colon tissues. The level of expression for each factor/marker was determined using RT-PCR and quantified using a real-time quantitative PCR (RT-QPCR) technique, with respective cloned cDNA plasmids as internal standards. VEGF-D was expressed to a significantly higher degree in the colon tumour tissues. There was no significant difference between the expression levels for both VEGF-C and its receptor, VEGFR-2, in background and cancer tissues. However, levels of the VEGFR-3 receptor were found to be significantly higher in colon cancer than the normal background tissues. LYVE-1 levels were below detection in most cases. There was a significant increase in the degree of Prox-1 and 5'-nucleotidase expression in colon cancer tissue. Podoplanin expression was also increased in the cancer samples. These markers indicate an increase in lymphangiogenesis in colon cancer, and may therefore have prognostic value for colon cancer patients.
Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-C and angiogenesis in esophageal squamous cell carcinoma.	To investigate the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-c (VEGF-C) mRNA and microvessel density (MVD) in human esophageal squamous cell carcinoma (ESCC) and its relationship with clinical significance.
The effect of on VEGF-C cDNA transfection on NB4 cell proliferation, differentiation and resistance to apoptosis]	To explore the biological effect on NB4 cells proliferation, all-trans retinoic acid (ATRA) inducing differentiation and resistance to apoptosis by vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-C cDNA transfection.
DNA demethylation of vascular endothelial growth factor-C is associated with gene expression and its possible involvement of lymphangiogenesis in gastric cancer.	Previous studies have indicated that lymphangiogenesis in solid tumors is associated with lymphatic metastasis. Overexpression of Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-C plays a major role in lymphangiogenesis in cancers. In the present study, DNA methylation and expression of the VEGF-C gene was investigated in gastric cancer (GC). Four GC cell lines (MKN-45, MKN-74, HSC-39 and HSC-43) showed no expression of VEGF-C, and the VEGF-C gene was found to be methylated in these cells. In contrast, 7 GC cell lines (MKN-1, MKN-7, MKN-28, TMK-1, KATO-III, SH101-P4 and HSC-44PE) expressed VEGF-C, and the VEGF-C gene was found to be unmethylated in these cell lines. In addition, expression of VEGF-C mRNA was retrieved by treatment with a demethylating agent, Aza-2'-deoxycytidine. In GC tissue samples, bisulfite DNA sequencing analysis revealed that VEGF-C was not methylated in 9 (29.0%) of 31 GC samples, whereas demethylation was not observed in corresponding non-neoplastic mucosa samples. Overexpression of VEGF-C mRNA was observed in 16 (51.6%) of 31 GC samples by quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Of the 9 GC cases with VEGF-C demethylation, 8 (88.9%) overexpressed VEGF-C. In contrast, of the 22 GC cases without VEGF-C demethylation, 8 (36.4%) overexpressed VEGF-C (p = 0.0155). Furthermore, lymphatic vessel density determined by immunostaining of podoplanin in GC tissues was associated with overexpression of VEGF-C (p < 0.0001). These results suggest that demethylation and activation of the VEGF-C gene is likely involved in lymphangiogenesis in GC.
Study of the correlation between HER-2 gene and lymphangiogenesis and their prognostic significance in human breast cancer]	To demonstrate the molecular mechanism of poor prognosis in HER-2 overexpressing breast carcinoma, to study the correlation between angiogenesis/lymphangiogenesis and HER-2, and the effect of them in the progression and prognosis, so as to provide novel molecular markers for lymph node metastasis and prognosis in breast carcinoma.
Vascular endothelial growth factor-C secreted by pancreatic cancer cell line promotes lymphatic endothelial cell migration in an in vitro model of tumor lymphangiogenesis.	To investigate mechanisms underlying lymphatic node metastasis in pancreatic cancer, we examined roles of vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C) in tumor lymphangiogenesis.
Differential regulation of vascular endothelial growth factor-C and its receptor in the rat hippocampus following transient forebrain ischemia.	We investigated the changes in the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C) and its receptor, VEGFR-3, in the rat hippocampus following transient forebrain ischemia. The expression profiles of VEGF-C and VEGFR-3 were very similar in the control hippocampi, where both genes were constitutively expressed in neurons in the pyramidal cell and granule cell layers. The spatiotemporal expression pattern of VEGF-C was similar to that of VEGFR-3 in the ischemic hippocampus, and in the CA1 and dentate hilar regions both VEGF-C and VEGFR-3 were strongly expressed in activated glial cells rather than in neurons. Most of the activated glial cells expressing both genes were reactive astrocytes, although some were a subpopulation of brain macrophages. In the dentate gyrus, however, VEGFR-3 expression was transiently increased in the innermost layer of granule cells on days 7-10 after reperfusion, coinciding with an increase in polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule staining--a marker for immature neurons. These data suggest that VEGF-C may be involved in glial reaction via paracrine or autocrine mechanisms in the ischemic brain and may carry out specific roles in adult hippocampal neurogenesis during ischemic insults.
Heparanase induces VEGF C and facilitates tumor lymphangiogenesis.	Heparanase is an endoglycosidase that specifically cleaves heparan sulfate side chains, a class of glycosaminoglycans abundantly present in the extracellular matrix and on the cell surface. Heparanase activity is strongly implicated in tumor angiogenesis and metastasis attributed to remodeling of the subepithelial and subendothelial basement membranes. We hypothesized that similar to its proangiogenic capacity, heparanase is also engaged in lymphangiogenesis and utilized the D2-40 monoclonal antibody to study lymphangiogenesis in tumor specimens obtained from 65 head and neck carcinoma patients. Lymphatic density was analyzed for association with clinical parameters and heparanase staining. We provide evidence that lymphatic vessel density (LVD) correlates with head and neck lymph node metastasis (N-stage, p = 0.007) and inversely correlates with tumor cell differentiation (p = 0.007). Notably, heparanase staining correlated with LVD (p = 0.04) and, moreover, with VEGF C levels (p = 0.01). We further demonstrate that heparanase overexpression by epidermoid, breast, melanoma and prostate carcinoma cells induces a 3- to 5-fold elevation in VEGF C expression in vitro and facilitates tumor xenograft lymphangiogenesis in vivo, whereas heparanase gene silencing was associated with decreased VEGF C levels. These findings suggest that heparanase plays a unique dual role in tumor metastasis, facilitating tumor cell invasiveness and inducing VEGF C expression, thereby increasing the density of lymphatic vessels that mobilize metastatic cells.
Omental immune aggregates and tumor metastasis within the peritoneal cavity.	The omentum, an important peritoneal tissue, is studded with a high number of immune aggregates, or "milky spots," the number, function, and phenotype of which is largely unknown. We have analyzed the immune composition on the normal omentum and also have shown that both free immune cells and tumor cells in the peritoneal fluid bind preferentially to these immune aggregates. This binding may be mediated by the network of collagen I fibers, which overlay these areas. In addition, we have shown that not only do omental vessels express vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 3 (VEGFR3), a receptor that is only found on angiogenic blood vessels, but that tumor cells co-localize with these vessels, possibly increasing the ability of tumor to induce neovascularization and therefore thrive.
Mononuclear phagocyte system depletion blocks interstitial tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C expression and induces salt-sensitive hypertension in rats.	We showed recently that mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) cells provide a buffering mechanism for salt-sensitive hypertension by driving interstitial lymphangiogenesis, modulating interstitial Na(+) clearance, and increasing endothelial NO synthase protein expression in response to very high dietary salt via a tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C regulatory mechanism. We now tested whether isotonic saline and deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt treatment leads to a similar regulatory response in Sprague-Dawley rats. Male rats were fed a low-salt diet and received tap water (low-salt diet LSD), 1.0% saline (high-salt diet HSD), or DOCA+1.0% saline (DOCA-HSD). To test the regulatory role of interstitial MPS cells, we further depleted MPS cells with clodronate liposomes. HSD and DOCA-HSD led to Na(+) accumulation in the skin, MPS-driven tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C-mediated hyperplasia of interstitial lymph capillaries, and increased endothelial NO synthase protein expression in skin interstitium. Clodronate liposome MPS cell depletion blocked MPS infiltration in the skin interstitium, resulting in unchanged tonicity-responsive enhance binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C levels and absent hyperplasia of the lymph capillary network. Moreover, no increased skin endothelial NO synthase protein expression occurred in either clodronate liposome-treated HSD or DOCA-salt rats. Thus, absence of the MPS-cell regulatory response converted a salt-resistant blood-pressure state to a salt-sensitive state in HSD rats. Furthermore, salt-sensitive hypertension in DOCA-salt rats was aggravated. We conclude that MPS cells act as onsite controllers of interstitial volume and blood pressure homeostasis, providing a local regulatory salt-sensitive tonicity-responsive enhancer binding protein/vascular endothelial growth factor C-mediated mechanism in the skin to maintain normal blood pressure in states of interstitial Na(+) and Cl(-) accumulation. Failure of this physiological extrarenal regulatory mechanism leads to a salt-sensitive blood pressure response.
Features of corneal neovascularization and lymphangiogenesis induced by different etiological factors in mice.	To analyze the features of corneal neovascularization and lymphangiogenesis induced by different etiological factors.
Silencing Id-1 inhibits lymphangiogenesis through down-regulation of VEGF-C in oral squamous cell carcinoma.	Our previous study demonstrated that overexpression of Id-1 (inhibitor of differentiation/DNA binding) was associated with lymphatic metastasis in human oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCC). In this study, we further unveiled the association of Id-1 with vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C) and peritumoral lymphatic vessel density (PLVD), and the effect of silencing Id-1 on inhibiting lymphangiogenesis in OSCC. We found that Id-1 was associated with VEGF-C (r=0.569, p<0.001) and PLVD (r=0.240, p<0.001) in OSCC. Lentivirus-mediated RNA interference targeting Id-1 in an OSCC cell line Tca8113 resulted in down-regulation of VEGF-C (p=0.003, 0.007). Moreover, when Id-1 was suppressed by injecting Id-1-siRNA-lentivirus into the transplanted tumors in nude mice, VEGF-C was down-regulated (p=0.018) and the PLVD decreased (p=0.001). Our results suggest that Id-1 was correlated with lymphangiogenesis in OSCC. Silencing Id-1 could inhibit lymphangiogenesis through down-regulation of VEGF-C and it might be a promising treatment modality for the lymphatic metastasis of OSCC.
An important role of lymphatic vessel activation in limiting acute inflammation.	In contrast to the established role of blood vessel remodeling in inflammation, the biologic function of the lymphatic vasculature in acute inflammation has remained less explored. We studied 2 established models of acute cutaneous inflammation, namely, oxazolone-induced delayed-type hypersensitivity reactions and ultraviolet B irradiation, in keratin 14-vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-C and keratin 14-VEGF-D transgenic mice. These mice have an expanded network of cutaneous lymphatic vessels. Transgenic delivery of the lymphangiogenic factors VEGF-C and the VEGFR-3 specific ligand mouse VEGF-D significantly limited acute skin inflammation in both experimental models, with a strong reduction of dermal edema. Expression of VEGFR-3 by lymphatic endothelium was strongly down-regulated at the mRNA and protein level in acutely inflamed skin, and no VEGFR-3 expression was detectable on inflamed blood vessels and dermal macrophages. There was no major change of the inflammatory cell infiltrate or the composition of the inflammatory cytokine milieu in the inflamed skin of VEGF-C or VEGF-D transgenic mice. However, the increased network of lymphatic vessels in these mice significantly enhanced lymphatic drainage from the ear skin. These results provide evidence that specific lymphatic vessel activation limits acute skin inflammation via promotion of lymph flow from the skin and reduction of edema formation.
Soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3 suppresses lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis in bladder cancer.	Most bladder cancer patients experience lymphatic metastasis in the course of disease progression, yet the relationship between lymphangiogenesis and lymphatic metastasis is not well known. The aim of this study is to elucidate underlying mechanisms of how expanded lymphatic vessels and tumor microenvironment interacts each other and to find effective therapeutic options to inhibit lymphatic metastasis.
Effects of intermittent parathyroid hormone treatment on osteoprogenitor cells in postmenopausal women.	Intermittent parathyroid hormone (PTH) 1-34 treatment stimulates bone formation, but the molecular mechanisms mediating this effect have not been previously studied in humans. Thus, we used magnetic activated cell sorting to isolate hematopoietic lineage negative (lin-)/alkaline phosphatase positive (AP+) osteoprogenitor cells from bone marrow of 20 postmenopausal women treated with PTH (1-34) for 14 days and 19 control subjects. Serum PINP and CTX increased in PTH-treated subjects (by 97% and 30%, respectively, P<0.001). Bone marrow lin-/AP+ cells from PTH-treated subjects showed an increase in the RANKL/OPG mRNA ratio (by 7.5-fold, P=0.011) and in the mRNAs for c-fos (a known PTH-responsive gene, by 42%, P=0.035) and VEGF-C (by 57%, P=0.046). Gene Set Enrichment Analysis (GSEA, testing for changes in pre-specified pathways) demonstrated that PTH had no effect on osteoblast proliferation, apoptosis, or differentiation markers. However, PTH treatment resulted in a significant decrease (GSEA P-value, 0.005) in a panel of BMP target genes in the lin-/AP+ cells. Our findings thus identify several future directions for studying mechanisms of PTH action in humans. First, given the increasing evidence that PTH induces angiogenesis, the role of increased VEGF-C production by bone marrow osteoprogenitor cells in mediating this effect and the anabolic response to PTH warrants further study. Second, while the observed inhibition of BMP target gene expression by PTH is not consistent with the anabolic effects of PTH on bone and requires further validation, these data do generate the hypothesis that an inhibition of BMP signaling by PTH may, over time, limit the availability of mature osteoblasts on bone surfaces and thereby contribute to the observed waning of the anabolic response to PTH.
Blockade of insulin receptor substrate-1 inhibits corneal lymphangiogenesis.	To analyze whether insulin receptor substrate (IRS-1) is involved in lymphatic vessel development and whether IRS-1 blockade can inhibit lymphangiogenesis in vivo.
Expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-C in gastric carcinoma and the effect of its antisense gene transfection on the proliferation of human gastric cancer cell line SGC-7901.	The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor-C (VEGF-C) in gastric carcinoma and tumor lymphangiogenesis and to determine the effect of antisense-VEGF-C gene transfection on proliferation.
Enhancement of endothelial cell migration by constitutively active LPA(1)-expressing tumor cells.	Lysophosphatidic acid (LPA) receptors belong to G protein-coupled transmembrane receptors (LPA receptors; LPA(1) to LPA(6)). They indicate a variety of cellular response by the interaction with LPA, including cell proliferation, migration and differentiation. Recently, we have reported that constitutive active mutated LPA(1) induced the strong biological effects of rat neuroblastoma B103 cells. In the present study, we examined the effects of mutated LPA(1) on the interaction between B103 cells and endothelial F-2 cells. Each LPA receptor expressing B103 cells were maintained in serum-free DMEM and cell motility assay was performed with a Cell Culture Insert. When F-2 cells were cultured with conditioned medium from Lpar1 and Lpar3-expressing cells, the cell motility of F-2 cells was significantly higher than control cells. Interestingly, the motile activity of F-2 cells was strongly induced by mutated LPA(1) than other cells, correlating with the expression levels of vascular endothelial growth factor (Vegf)-A and Vegf-C. Pretreatment of LPA signaling inhibitors inhibited F-2 cell motility stimulated by mutated LPA(1). These results suggest that activation of LPA signaling via mutated LPA(1) may play an important role in the promotion of angiogenesis in rat neuroblastoma cells.
Suppression of heat shock protein 27 induces long-term dormancy in human breast cancer.	The mechanisms underlying tumor dormancy have been elusive and not well characterized. We recently published an experimental model for the study of human tumor dormancy and the role of angiogenesis, and reported that the angiogenic switch was preceded by a local increase in VEGF-A and basic fibroblast growth factor. In this breast cancer xenograft model (MDA-MB-436 cells), analysis of differentially expressed genes revealed that heat shock protein 27 (HSP27) was significantly up-regulated in angiogenic cells compared with nonangiogenic cells. The effect of HSP27 down-regulation was further evaluated in cell lines, mouse models, and clinical datasets of human patients with breast cancer and melanoma. Stable down-regulation of HSP27 in angiogenic tumor cells was followed by long-term tumor dormancy in vivo. Strikingly, only 4 of 30 HSP27 knockdown xenograft tumors initiated rapid growth after day 70, in correlation with a regain of HSP27 protein expression. Significantly, no tumors escaped from dormancy without HSP27 expression. Down-regulation of HSP27 was associated with reduced endothelial cell proliferation and decreased secretion of VEGF-A, VEGF-C, and basic fibroblast growth factor. Conversely, overexpression of HSP27 in nonangiogenic cells resulted in expansive tumor growth in vivo. By clinical validation, strong HSP27 protein expression was associated with markers of aggressive tumors and decreased survival in patients with breast cancer and melanoma. An HSP27-associated gene expression signature was related to molecular subgroups and survival in breast cancer. Our findings suggest a role for HSP27 in the balance between tumor dormancy and tumor progression, mediated by tumor-vascular interactions. Targeting HSP27 might offer a useful strategy in cancer treatment.
VEGF-C, VEGF-D and VEGFR-3 expression in peripheral neuroblastic tumours.	More than 50% of neuroblastomas (NBs) present with haematogenous and/or lymphatic metastasis; however, little is known about the clinicopathological significance in NBs of the key lymphangiogenesis growth factors vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-C and VEGF-D and the receptor VEGFR-3.
Proteinuria triggers renal lymphangiogenesis prior to the development of interstitial fibrosis.	Proteinuria is an important cause of progressive tubulo-interstitial damage. Whether proteinuria could trigger a renal lymphangiogenic response has not been established. Moreover, the temporal relationship between development of fibrosis, inflammation and lymphangiogenesis in chronic progressive kidney disease is not clear yet. Therefore, we evaluated the time course of lymph vessel (LV) formation in relation to proteinuria and interstitial damage in a rat model of chronic unilateral adriamycin nephrosis. Proteinuria and kidneys were evaluated up to 30 weeks after induction of nephrosis. LVs were identified by podoplanin/VEGFR3 double staining. After 6 weeks proteinuria was well-established, without influx of interstitial macrophages and myofibroblasts, collagen deposition, osteopontin expression (tubular activation) or LV formation. At 12 weeks, a ∼3-fold increase in cortical LV density was found (p<0.001), gradually increasing over time. This corresponded with a significant increase in tubular osteopontin expression (p<0.01) and interstitial myofibroblast numbers (p<0.05), whereas collagen deposition and macrophage numbers were not yet increased. VEGF-C was mostly expressed by tubular cells rather than interstitial cells. Cultured tubular cells stimulated with FCS showed a dose-dependent increase in mRNA and protein expression of VEGF-C which was not observed by human albumin stimulation. We conclude that chronic proteinuria provoked lymphangiogenesis in temporal conjunction with tubular osteopontin expression and influx of myofibroblasts, that preceded interstitial fibrosis.
Mammary cancer gene therapy targeting lymphangiogenesis: VEGF-C siRNA and soluble VEGF receptor-2, a splicing variant.	Metastasis contributes significantly to cancer mortality, and the most common pathway of initial dissemination is via the afferent ducts of the lymphatics. Overexpression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-C has been associated with lymphangiogenesis and lymph node metastasis in a multitude of human neoplasms, including breast cancers. We recently reported that both VEGF-C siRNA and endogenous soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (esVEGFR-2, a new splicing variant) inhibit VEGF-C function and metastasis in a mouse model of metastatic mammary cancer. Here we briefly review our previous experimental work, specifically targeting tumor lymphangiogenesis, in which metastatic mouse mammary cancers received direct intratumoral injections of either expression vectors VEGF-C siRNA or esVEGFR-2, or the empty plasmid vector, once a week for 6 or 8 weeks, followed by in vivo gene electrotransfer of the injected tumors. Throughout our study, both tumor lymphangiogenesis and the multiplicity of lymph node metastasis were significantly inhibited, with an overall reduction in tumor growth, by both VEGF-C siRNA and esVEGFR-2; further, a significant reduction in the number of dilated lymphatic vessels containing intraluminal cancer cells was observed with both treatments. Thus, therapeutic strategies targeting lymphangiogenesis may have great clinical significance for the treatment of metastatic human breast cancer.
Suppression of lymph node and lung metastases of endometrial cancer by muscle-mediated expression of soluble vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-3.	Lymph node metastasis is the most important prognostic factor of endometrial cancer. However, effective therapy has not been established against lymph node metastasis. In this study, we explored the efficacy of gene therapy targeting lymph node metastasis of endometrial cancer by suppressing the action of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)-C through soluble VEGF receptor-3 (sVEGFR-3) expression. For this purpose, we first conducted a model experiment by introducing sVEGFR-3 cDNA into an endometrial cancer cell line HEC1A and established HEC1A/sVEGFR-3 cell line with high sVEGFR-3 expression. The conditioned medium of HEC1A/sVEGFR-3 cells inhibited lymphatic endothelial cell growth in vitro, and sVEGFR-3 expression in HEC1A cells suppressed in vivo lymph node and lung metastases without inhibiting the growth of a subcutaneously inoculated tumor. To validate the therapeutic efficacy, adeno-associated virus vectors encoding sVEGFR-3 were injected into the skeletal muscle of mice with lymph node metastasis. Lymph node and lung metastases of HEC1A cells were completely suppressed by the muscle-mediated expression of sVEGFR-3 using adeno-associated virus vectors. These results suggest the possibility of gene therapy against lymph node and lung metastases of endometrial cancer by using muscle-mediated expression of sVEGFR-3. 
Vasohibin-1 expression is regulated by transforming growth factor-β/bone morphogenic protein signaling pathway between tumor-associated macrophages and pancreatic cancer cells.	Vasohibin-1 has been detected in endothelial cells as an intrinsic angiogenesis inhibitor. Both tumor-associated macrophages (TAMs) and transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β)/bone morphogenic protein (BMP) signaling have been reported to promote angiogenesis in cancer. However, whether vasohibin-1 expression is regulated by TGF-β/BMP signaling between TAMs and cancer cells remains unclear. The expression of TGF-β1, TGF-β2, BMP-4, and BMP-7 in TAMs and the expression of vasohibin-1, vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A), and VEGF-C in two pancreatic cancer cell lines (a nonmetastatic cell line Panc-1 and a distant metastatic cell line HPAF-II) were measured by real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). The TGF-β receptor 1 and BMP receptor 1 were inhibited by the inhibitor SB-431542 and LDN193189, respectively. Thereafter, vasohibin-1, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C expression was detected by real-time RT-PCR. We found that the expression of TGF-β1, TGF-β2, BMP-4, and BMP-7 was upregulated in TAMs cocultured with pancreatic cancer cells. Vasohibin-1, VEGF-A, and VEGF-C mRNA expression in pancreatic cancer cells was upregulated by TAMs. Vasohibin-1 expression in pancreatic cancer cells cocultured with TAMs was upregulated significantly when TGF-β receptors or BMP receptors were inhibited, but VEGF-C expression was downregulated. Therefore, Vasohibin-1 expression is regulated by the TGF-β/BMP signaling between TAMs and pancreatic cancer cells. These results might shed a new light on the antiangiogenesis therapy in the pancreatic cancer. 
Role of VEGF-C gene polymorphisms in susceptibility to hepatocellular carcinoma and its pathological development.	Vascular endothelial growth factor C (VEGF-C), an angiogenic/lymphangiogenic factor with high expression levels in tumor tissues, plays important roles in the development of several malignancies including hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The purpose of this study was to examine whether VEGF-C gene polymorphisms are associated with susceptibility to HCC and its clinicopathological development.
