Management of peripheral arterial injury.	Significant changes in the management of patients, with possible or documented injuries to peripheral arteries, have occurred over the last 20 years.
Impact of concomitant arterial injury on the outcome of laparoscopic bile duct injury.	Concomitant injury to the bile duct and hepatic artery is an increasingly recognized complication of laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC). The impact of a concomitant arterial injury in patients with a bile duct injury (BDI) remains debatable. Early reports described a high incidence of septic complications, difficulty of biliary repair, and increased the risk of recurrent stricture.
Management of simultaneous traumatic brain injury and aortic injury.	Simultaneous traumatic brain injury (TBI) and aortic injury has been considered unsurvivable for many years because treatments such as sedation and blood pressure goals conflict for these 2 conditions. Additionally, surgical interventions for aortic injury often require full anticoagulation, which is contraindicated in patients with TBI. For these reasons, and due to the relative rarity of aortic injury/TBI, little data are available to guide treating physicians.
Diagnosis and treatment of limb fractures associated with acute peripheral ischemia.	Acute Peripheral Ischemia (API) is the most severe acute complication after both open and closed fractures, as ischemia compromises not only the vitality of the affected limb, but also the patient's life, because metabolic anaerobic changes following ischemia have serious local and general consequences. These explain why early diagnosis of API is very important for the prognosis of the traumatized limb.The authors analyse cases when API was not diagnosed immediately after trauma, but some time after the first examination, due to either low systolic BP or to late onset of API. The patients were analysed concerning the type of the fracture, the reason for delayed diagnosis of API, the moment of API diagnosis and the arterial injury. In all those cases, surgery was performed immediately after API diagnosis, in order to identify and treat the complex injuries(bone and vascular).
Surgical repair following trauma to vascular graft causing spinal cord infarction.	A 55-year-old woman with a background of vascular disease presented with signs of bilateral limb ischaemia. Following elective axillobifemoral bypass and hospital discharge, accidental axillary trauma causing a chest wall haematoma, the patient underwent an emergency graft repair. Postextubation, she reported with absent sensation in her legs. Spinal cord infarction was diagnosed through clinical assessment and exclusion of other causes. The aetiology of compromise to the spinal cord blood supply is unclear. Possibilities include intraoperative hypotension, inadvertent compromise to blood supply of thoracic radicular arteries, dislodged atherosclerotic emboli or a combination of these factors. Spinal cord infarction recognised early can be treated. Sedation to assist ventilation had obscured the problem early enough to consider treatment. Patients with vascular risk factors should be carefully managed intraoperatively to minimise hypotensive episodes and care should also be taken not to compromise blood flow of radicular arteries. 
