Cogan's syndrome. An unusual etiology of urticarial vasculitis.	We report the case of an 18-year-old black woman with urticarial vasculitis, vestibuloauditory dysfunction and superficial keratitis. Oral steroid therapy was effective in reducing most clinical manifestations with high-dosage dependency. However, only intravenous pulses of methylprednisolone allowed slight improvement of hearing. In this case, we emphasize urticarial vasculitis as a new manifestation of atypical Cogan's syndrome. A significant titer of Chalmydia trachomatis antibodies was found in our patient: their role in the pathogenesis of Cogan's syndrome is discussed.
Immunoelectron microscopy in dermatology]	The principle of immunoelectronmicroscopic studies using horseradish perpoxidase is described. This method, especially the peroxidase-antiperoxidase multistep technique, reveals more details about the exact localization of immunophenomena in different dermatological diseases. The results of immunological investigations performed on the ultra-structural level in bullous diseases, lupus erythermatosus, vasculitis, and psoriasis are summarized and compared with the immunofluorescent and classical electromicroscopic findings.
A sequential study of the bovine tuberculin reaction.	The sequential histopathological and immunocytochemical changes that characterize the tuberculin reaction were studied in 13 cattle experimentally sensitized to Mycobacterium bovis, and 14 cattle naturally infected with M. bovis. There were two distinct, temporally related patterns of morphological change that were similar for both groups of cattle. The first phase, between 6 hr and 24 hr after the intradermal injection of purified protein derivative (PPD), was characterized by a perivascular aggregation of WC1+ gamma delta T cells and neutrophils and the presence of leucocytoclastic vasculitis within the papillary dermis. The second phase of the reaction was characterized by increased numbers of infiltrating BoCD4+ cells, BoCD8+ cells and macrophages, as well as an increase in expression of the interleukin-2 (IL-2) receptor and the ACT2 antigen. Macrophages were the most numerous infiltrating leucocytes between 24 hr and 72 hr after the intradermal injection of PPD. At 72 hr, the reaction was characterized by intense perivascular cuffing with BoCD4+ cells, BoCD8+ cells and macrophages; gamma delta T cells and neutrophils were a minor component of the reaction and leucocytoclastic vasculitis was no longer observed. No B cells were detected in the dermis throughout the period of study. The increase in skin thickness was primarily because of inflammatory oedema that was contained within the area by a meshwork of fibrin deposited around the collagen bundles of the reticular dermis.
