Respiratory syncytial virus causes increased bronchial epithelial permeability.	Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)-induced diseases are mediated through active cytokines released during infection. We hypothesized that RSV infection causes bronchial epithelial monolayer permeability in vitro via induction of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF).
Dietary lipid hydroperoxides induce expression of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) in human colorectal tumor cells.	Fatty acid hydroperoxides arise from unsaturated fatty acids in the presence of oxygen and elevated temperature during processing of food. Here we have studied their effects on gene expression in colorectal tumor cells using linoleic acid hydroperoxide (LOOH) as a model compound. Its addition to the medium of LT97 human adenoma cells and SW480 human carcinoma cells enhanced the production of intracellular hydrogen peroxide. Furthermore, in both cell lines, increases in VEGF mRNA and protein were observed. Unoxidized linoleic acid had little or no activity. Concomitantly, COX-2 expression was up-regulated. In the LT97 cells, the COX inhibitors SC58560 and SC58236 completely prevented the VEGF induction, suggesting that the effect was dependent on prostaglandin synthesis. In vivo prostaglandin-mediated induction of VEGF secretion is known to be essential for the growth of adenomatous polyps and their progression to carcinomas. Therefore, our results for the first time implicate dietary lipid hydroperoxide as a key risk factor in colon carcinogenesis.
Expression and correlation with metastasis of E-cadherin, CD44H, matrix metalloproteinase-3, nm23H1 and VEGF in nasopharyngeal carcinoma]	To investigate the expression of E-cadherin, CD44H, matrix metalloproteinase-3, nm23H1 and VEGF in nasopharyngeal carcinoma and its relationship to the metastasis.
In vitro anti-proliferative activities of ellagic acid.	The potential cytotoxic and anti-proliferative activities of ellagic acid (a naturally occurring bioactive compound in berries, grapes, and nuts) was evaluated using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC), normal human lung fibroblast cells HEL 299, Caco-2 colon, MCF-7 breast, Hs 578T breast, and DU 145 human prostatic cancer cells. Ellagic acid at concentration in the range 10-100 micromol/L did not affect the viability of normal fibroblast cells during a 24-hour incubation. An increase in adenosine triphosphate (ATP) bioluminescence of approximately 18-21% was observed in normal cells incubated with ellagic acid. In contrast, ellagic acid at 1-100 micromol/L dose-dependently inhibited HUVEC tube formation and proliferation on a reconstituted extracellular matrix and showed strong anti-proliferative activity against the colon, breast, and prostatic cancer cell lines investigated. The most sensitive cells were the Caco-2, and the most resistant were the breast cancer cells. Ellagic acid induced cancer cell death by apoptosis as shown by the microscopic examination of cell gross morphology. Ellagic acid induced reduced cancer cell viability as shown by decreased ATP levels of the cancer cells. After 24 hours incubation of 100 micromol/L of ellagic acid with Caco-2, MCF-7, Hs 578T, and DU 145 cancer cells, ellagic acid suppressed fetal bovine serum (FBS) stimulation of cell migration. The apoptosis induction was accompanied by a decreased in the levels of pro-matrix metalloproteinase-2 (pro-MMP-2 or gelatinase A), pro-matrix metalloproteinase-9 (pro-MMP-9 or gelatinase B), and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF(165)) in conditioned media. The results suggest that ellagic acid expressed a selective cytotoxicity and anti-proliferative activity, and induced apoptosis in Caco-2, MCF-7, Hs 578T, and DU 145 cancer cells without any toxic effect on the viability of normal human lung fibroblast cells. It was also observed that the mechanism of apoptosis induction in ellagic acid-treated cancer cells was associated with decreased ATP production, which is crucial for the viability of cancer cells.
VEGF production by primary human renal proximal tubular cells: requirement of HIF-1, PI3-kinase and MAPKK-1 signaling.	Renal proximal tubular epithelial cells (PTEC) respond to hypoxia exposure or interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) treatment with increased vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production. With respect to O2 deprivation, the hypoxia-inducible factor 1alpha/ beta (HIF-1) is the most important transcription factor driving VEGF mRNA expression. HIF-1 is also activated by IL-1beta and may thus be involved in the stimulation of VEGF production by this cytokine. However, the molecular mechanisms of HIF-1 dependent VEGF synthesis are poorly understood. Herein, human PTEC in primary culture were challenged by hypoxic incubation and/or IL-1beta treatment in absence or presence of specific phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) or mitogen activated protein kinase kinase-1 (MAPKK-1) inhibitors for assay of VEGF protein, VEGF mRNA and detection of HIF-1alpha by Western Blotting, EMSA and fluorescence microscopy. In addition, the activities of PI3K and MAPKK-1 were studied following hypoxia and IL-1beta treatment of the cultures. The study shows that PI3K but not MAPKK-1 inhibition resulted in the loss of hypoxic and IL-1beta induced HIF-1alpha accumulation, whereas VEGF synthesis was reduced by either intervention. Thus, PI3K signaling is required for HIF-1alpha accumulation and VEGF synthesis, whereas MAPKK-1 signaling is required for VEGF synthesis only. Furthermore, hypoxia alone was sufficient to activate PI3K in PTEC in contrast to MAPKK-1, whose activity was lowered in hypoxia.
Inflammatory and angiogenic mRNA levels are altered in a supraspinatus tendon overuse animal model.	Shoulder overuse injuries, especially those to the supraspinatus tendon of the rotator cuff, are common musculoskeletal disorders. Unfortunately, little is known about the disease etiology and pathogenesis. The objective of this study was to determine the levels of specific inflammatory and angiogenic markers in a rat supraspinatus tendon overuse injury model. We hypothesized that inflammation would not be present early in the overuse protocol. Conversely, we hypothesized that the overuse protocol would result in increased angiogenesis early. Increases in five-lipoxygenase activating protein, cyclooxygenase-2, vascular endothelial growth factor, and von Willebrand factor were evaluated by use of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction from 1 day through 16 weeks of treadmill running (overuse protocol). These results provide important information on the role of angiogenesis and inflammation in the disease process. Future studies will further evaluate the mechanisms of the disease process as well as potential targeted treatment modalities.
Lymphatic microvessel density and the expression of lymphangiogenic factors in oral squamous cell carcinoma.	In this study, the expression of several lymphangiogenic growth factors was investigated to determine the mechanism underlying lymphangiogenesis in oral squamous cell carcinoma (OSCCa).
Differential dependency of human cancer cells on vascular endothelial growth factor-mediated autocrine growth and survival.	Analysis using the public microarray database Gene Expression Omnibus indicates significantly higher mRNA expression of VEGF and VEGFRs in colorectal cancer and high grade astrocytoma but not in hepatocellular carcinoma compared to normal tissue. Human malignant astrocytoma cell lines (U251-MG and U373-MG) and HT-1080 fibrosarcoma cells expressed relatively higher levels of VEGF and VEGFRs compared to hepatocellular and colorectal cancer cell lines. Administration of exogenous VEGF-A induced cell growth in a dose-dependent fashion in astrocytoma and fibrosarcoma cells but not in colorectal and hepatocellular cancer cells. The blockade of VEGF inhibited cell survival only in U251-MG, U373-MG and HT-1080 cells. These results collectively suggest the role of autocrine VEGF signaling in various cancer cells and provide a basis for the variable clinical responses to antiangiogenic therapy observed in different types of malignancies.
