Endothelial progenitor cells: mobilization, differentiation, and homing.	Postnatal bone marrow contains a subtype of progenitor cells that have the capacity to migrate to the peripheral circulation and to differentiate into mature endothelial cells. Therefore, these cells have been termed endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs). The isolation of EPCs by adherence culture or magnetic microbeads has been described. In general, EPCs are characterized by the expression of 3 markers, CD133, CD34, and the vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2. During differentiation, EPCs obviously lose CD133 and start to express CD31, vascular endothelial cadherin, and von Willebrand factor. EPCs seem to participate in endothelial repair and neovascularization of ischemic organs. Clinical studies using EPCs for neovascularization have just been started; however, the mechanisms stimulating or inhibiting the differentiation of EPC in vivo and the signals causing their migration and homing to sites of injured endothelium or extravascular tissue are largely unknown at present. Thus, future studies will help to explore areas of potential basic research and clinical application of EPCs.
A naturally occurring soluble form of vascular endothelial growth factor receptor 2 detected in mouse and human plasma.	Angiogenesis and vasculogenesis are regulated in large part by several different growth factors and their associated receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs). Foremost among these is the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) family including VEGF receptor (VEGFR)-2 and -1. VEGFR ligand binding and biological activity are regulated at many levels, one of which is by a soluble, circulating form of VEGFR-1 (sVEGFR-1). This sVEGFR-1 can act as a competitive inhibitor of its ligand, serve as a possible biomarker, and play important roles in cancer and other diseases such as preeclampsia. Recombinant forms of sVEGFR-2 have been shown to have antiangiogenic activity, but a naturally occurring sVEGFR-2 has not been described previously. Here, we report such an entity. Having a molecular weight of approximately 160 kDa, sVEGFR-2 can be detected in mouse and human plasma with several different monoclonal and polyclonal anti-VEGFR-2 antibodies using both ELISA and immunoprecipitation techniques. In vitro studies have determined that the sVEGFR-2 fragment can be found in the conditioned media of mouse and human endothelial cells, thus suggesting that it may be secreted, similar to sVEGFR-1, or proteolytically cleaved from the cell. Potential biological activity of this protein was inferred from experiments in which mouse sVEGFR-2 could bind to VEGF-coated plates. Similar to sVEGFR-1 and other soluble circulating RTKs, sVEGFR-2 may have regulatory consequences with respect to VEGF-mediated angiogenesis as well as potential to serve as a quantitative biomarker of angiogenesis and antiangiogenic drug activity, particularly for drugs that target VEGF or VEGFR-2.
Vascular endothelial growth factor and blood-brain barrier disruption in tuberculous meningitis.	Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is characterized by disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB), cerebral edema and increased intracranial pressure (ICP). Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is a potent vascular permeability factor and a mediator of brain edema.
Vascular endothelial growth factor overexpression increases vascularization by murine but not human endothelial cells in cultured skin substitutes grafted to athymic mice.	Cultured skin substitutes (CSS) consisting of fibroblasts, keratinocytes, and biopolymers are an adjunctive treatment for large burns. Because CSS lack a vascular plexus, they vascularize more slowly than split-thickness autografts. Previously, CSS were prepared with dermal microvascular endothelial cells (ECs), which formed vascular analogs at a low frequency but did not contribute to increased vascularization after grafting. The present study addressed whether keratinocytes genetically modified to overexpress vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), an endothelial cell mitogen, could improve the persistence and organization of ECs in CSS. CSS were prepared with control or VEGF-modified keratinocytes, with (CSS + ECs) or without added ECs, and were grafted to full-thickness wounds in athymic mice. Elevated VEGF expression was detected in VEGF-modified CSS and CSS + ECs compared with controls, but no significant difference in EC density in vitro was observed. After grafting, VEGF-modified CSS and CSS + ECs showed enhanced vascularization, and organization of human ECs into multicellular structures in CSS + ECs was observed. However, VEGF overexpression did not significantly enhance the proliferation of human ECs, suggesting that other factors may be required. Improved persistence and organization of human ECs in vitro will likely be required for their participation in vascularization of CSS + ECs after grafting.
Neovascularization after ischemic stroke]	After ischemic stroke, there is neovascularization around the infarcted area, which is called penumbra. Angiogenesis and arteriogenesis are responsible for the new vessel formation. Until recently, vasculogenesis has been proved to involve mechanisms in postischemic neovascularization, which was thought to be restricted to embryonic development. New blood vessels' formation is a complex pathologic process after ischemic stroke, in which many factors are properly involved. There are factors stimulating neovascularization, such as vascular endothelial growth factor, platelet-derived growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor and angiopoietin; there are also factors inhibiting neovascularization, such as thrombospondin. Functional recovery was found after stroke, which may contribute to angiogensis in the periinfarct tissue. Thus, therapeutic angiogenesis has been initially studied in animal models, but there is still a long way to go for therapeutic angiogenesis to be used in the treatment of stroke patient.
Changes in VEGF and nitric oxide after deep dermal injury in the female, red Duroc pig-further similarities between female, Duroc scar and human hypertrophic scar.	Despite decades of research, our understanding of human hypertrophic scar is limited. A reliable animal model could significantly increase our understanding. We previously confirmed similarities between scarring in the female, red, Duroc pig and human hypertrophic scarring. The purpose of this study was to: (1) measure vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and nitric oxide (NO) levels in wounds on the female Duroc; and (2) to compare the NO levels to those reported for human hypertrophic scar. Shallow and deep wounds were created on four female Durocs. VEGF levels were measured using ELISA and NO levels with the Griess reagent. VEGF and NO levels were increased in deep wounds at 10 days when compared to shallow wounds (p < 0.05). At 15 weeks, VEGF and NO levels had returned to the level of shallow wounds. At 21 weeks, VEGF and NO levels had declined below baseline levels in deep wounds and the NO levels were significantly lower (p < 0.01). We found that VEGF and NO exhibit two distinctly different temporal patterns in shallow and deep wounds on the female Durocs. Furthermore, NO is decreased in female, Duroc scar as it is in human, hypertrophic scar further validating the usefulness of the model.
Analysis of concerted expression of angiogenic growth factors in acute myeloid leukemia: expression of angiopoietin-2 represents an independent prognostic factor for overall survival.	Bone marrow neoangiogenesis plays an important pathogenetic and possible prognostic role in acute myeloid leukemia (AML). Members of the vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and angiopoietin family represent the most specific inducers of angiogenesis secreted by AML blasts. We therefore correlated expression of angiogenic factors with clinical variables.
The history of the angiogenic switch concept.	Spontaneously arising tumor cells are not usually angiogenic at first. The phenotypic switch to angiogenesis is usually accomplished by a substet that induces new capillaries that then converge toward the tumor. The switch clearly involves more than simple upregulation of angiogenic activity and is thought to be the result of a net balance of positive and negative regulators. Tumor growth is although to require disruption of this balance and hence this switch must turned on for cancer progression. Progenitor endothelial cells, the crosstalk between angiogenic factors and their receptors and the interaction between vasculogenesis and lymphangiogenesis are all factors that may contribute to the switch. Its promotion is also the outcome of genetic instability resulting in the emergence of tumor cell lines. This review describes the history of the angiogenic switch illustrated in the literature and with particular reference to the three transgenic mouse models, namely RIP1-TAG2, keratin-14 (K14) (human papilloma virus) HPV16 and papilloma virus, used for stage-specific assessment of the effects of antiangiogenic and antitumorigenic agents.
Characterizing the tumor response to treatment with combretastatin A4 phosphate.	To examine the pathophysiologic impact of treatment with combretastatin A4 phosphate (CA4P) in regions of tumors that ultimately either necrose or survive treatment with this agent.
The modulation of endothelial cell gene expression by green tea polyphenol-EGCG.	Human and animal studies have shown that green tea consumption is associated with a reduced risk of some cancers. This has been attributed to its polyphenol components, in particular (-)-epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG). In addition to be a cancer chemopreventive agent, EGCG inhibits angiogenesis, thus reducing tumor growth and metastasis. We tested EGCG modulation on the gene expression profile of endothelial cells stimulated by VEGF using Affymetrix microarrays. A total of 421 genes were up-regulated and 72 genes were down-regulated at the false discovery rate of 5% by VEGF, EGCG, and EGCG pretreatment followed by VEGF stimulation. The changes in the expression of several pivotal genes were validated by real-time PCR. Furthermore, we have identified two signaling pathways (Wnt and Id) involved in cell proliferation were inhibited by EGCG treatment, suggesting the negative regulation of EGCG on cell proliferation. Our results also indicate that the antiangiogenesis effect of EGCG is partially mediated through its broad inhibition on endothelial cell proliferation. Our data further support earlier observations that the anticancer effect of EGCG is mediated through changes in the expression of genes that are associated with cell proliferation.
Total glucosides of Paeonia lactiflora Pall inhibit vascular endothelial growth factor-induced angiogenesis.	To evaluate the anti-angiogenesis effect of total glucosides of Paeonia lactiflora Pall.
Oxygen tension modulates neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells through a mechanism involving HIF and VEGF.	Cell-based approaches are a promising therapeutic strategy for treating injuries to the nervous system, but the optimal means to promote neurite extension and direct cellular behavior are unclear. Previous studies have examined the behavior of neural-like cells in ambient air (21% oxygen tension), yet these conditions are not representative of the physiological oxygen microenvironment of neural tissues. We hypothesized that neuronal differentiation of a model neural cell line (PC12) could be controlled by modulating local oxygen tension. Compared to ambient conditions, PC12 cells cultured in reduced oxygen exhibited significant increases in neurite extension and total neurite length, with 4% oxygen yielding the highest levels of both indicators. We confirmed neurite extension was mediated through oxygen-responsive mechanisms using small molecules that promote or inhibit HIF-1alpha stabilization. The hypoxic target gene Vegf was implicated as a neurotrophic factor, as neurite formation at 21% oxygen was mimicked with exogenous VEGF, and a VEGF-neutralizing antibody attenuated neurite formation under reduced oxygen conditions. These findings demonstrate that behavior of neural-like cells is driven by the oxygen microenvironment via VEGF function, and suggest promising approaches for future applications in neural repair.
Active Rac1 improves pathologic VEGF neovessel architecture and reduces vascular leak: mechanistic similarities with angiopoietin-1.	Architecturally defective, leaky blood vessels typify pathologic angiogenesis induced by vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A). Such neovascular defects aggravate disease pathology and seriously compromise the therapeutic utility of VEGF. Endothelial cell (EC) transduction with active L61Rac1 strongly improved VEGF-driven angiogenesis in vivo as measured by increased neovascular density, enhanced lumen formation, and reduced vessel leakiness. Conversely, transduction with dominant-negative N17Rac1 strongly inhibited neovascularization. In vitro, active L61Rac1 promoted organization of cortical actin filaments and vascular cords and improved EC-EC junctions, indicating that improved cytoskeletal dynamics are important to the mechanism by which active L61Rac1 rectifies VEGF-driven angiogenesis. SEW2871, a sphingosine 1-phosphate receptor-1 agonist that activates Rac1 in ECs, improved cord formation and EC-EC junctions in vitro similarly to active L61Rac. Moreover, SEW2871 administration in vivo markedly improved VEGF neovessel architecture and reduced neovascular leak. Angiopoietin-1, a cytokine that "normalizes" VEGF neovessels in vivo, activated Rac1 and improved cord formation and EC-EC junctions in vitro comparably to active L61Rac1, and a specific Rac1 inhibitor blocked these effects. These studies distinguish augmentation of Rac1 activity as a means to rectify the pathologic angioarchitecture and dysfunctionality of VEGF neovessels, and they identify a rational pharmacologic strategy for improving VEGF angiogenesis.
Hydroxyethyl starch reduces high stretch ventilation-augmented lung injury via vascular endothelial growth factor.	Disruption of epithelial and endothelial barriers found in patients with acute lung injury often results in the need for the support of mechanical ventilation. High tidal volume (V(T)) mechanical ventilation can increase lung damage through lung inflammation, but the mechanisms are unclear. We hypothesized that a colloid supply with hydroxyethyl starch would decrease neutrophil infiltration, lung edema, and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) production in mice exposed to high V(T) mechanical ventilation. Male C57BL/6 mice, weighing 20 g to 25 g, were exposed to high V(T) (30 mL/kg) mechanical ventilation with room air for 1 h to 5 h and infused with 15 mL/kg/h normal saline or hydroxyethyl starch intravenously at the beginning and every 30 min during ventilation. Evans blue dye, lung wet-to-dry weight ratio, histopathologic grading of lung tissue, myeloperoxidase, and inflammatory cytokine were measured to establish the extent of lung injury. Knockdown of VEGF by short interfering RNA (siRNA) was used to explore the role of VEGF. High V(T) ventilation induced the increases of microvascular permeability, neutrophil influx, expressions of VEGF mRNA and VEGF, production of VEGF protein, positive staining of VEGF in epithelium, and apoptotic epithelial cell death. Lung injury induced by high V(T) ventilation was attenuated with the supply of hydroxyethyl starch and pharmacologic inhibition of VEGF expression by siRNA. We conclude that hydroxyethyl starch reduces high V(T) mechanical ventilation-induced lung injury and neutrophil infiltration through an inhibition of VEGF expression.
Tissue oxygenation in brain, muscle, and fat in a rat model of sleep apnea: differential effect of obstructive apneas and intermittent hypoxia.	To test the hypotheses that the dynamic changes in brain oxygen partial pressure (PtO(2)) in response to obstructive apneas or to intermittent hypoxia differ from those in other organs and that the changes in brain PtO(2) in response to obstructive apneas is a source of oxidative stress.
Regulation of VEGF signaling by membrane traffic.	Recent findings have drawn attention to the role of membrane traffic in the signaling of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF). The significance of this development stems from the pivotal function of VEGF in vasculogenesis and angiogenesis. The outline of the regulation of VEGF receptor (VEGFR) signaling by membrane traffic is similar to that of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), a prototype of the intertwining between membrane traffic and signaling. There are, however, unique features in VEGFR signaling that are conferred in part by the involvement of the co-receptor neuropilin (Nrp). Nrp1 and VEGFR2 are integrated into membrane traffic through the adaptor protein synectin, which recruits myosin VI, a molecular motor that drives inward trafficking [17,21,64]. The recent detection of only mild vascular defects in a knockin mouse model that expresses Nrp1 lacking a cytoplasmic domain [104], questions the co-receptor's role in VEGF signaling and membrane traffic. The regulation of endocytosis by ephrin-B2 is another feature unique to VEGR2/3 [18,19], but it awaits a mechanistic explanation. Current models do not fully explain how membrane traffic bridges between VEGFR and the downstream effectors that produce its functional outcome, such as cell migration. VEGF-A appears to accomplish this task in part by recruiting endocytic vesicles carrying RhoA to internalized active VEGFR2 [58].
Phase I study of cetuximab, irinotecan, and vandetanib (ZD6474) as therapy for patients with previously treated metastastic colorectal cancer.	To determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and safety, and explore efficacy and biomarkers of vandetanib with cetuximab and irinotecan in second-line metastatic colorectal cancer.
