Patent side branches do not affect coronary blood flow in internal thoracic artery-left anterior descending anastomosis: an experimental study.	It has been reported that large side branches of internal thoracic artery grafts may steal flow from the coronary circulation. Material an.
Quantification of coronary artery lumen volume by digital angiography: in vivo validation.	Coronary artery lumen volume may potentially have several advantages over the commonly used variables, such as percent stenosis or minimal lumen diameter, in the assessment of coronary artery disease. The goal of this study is to validate a quantitative assessment of lumen volume using a video densitometry technique.
Incidence of central vein stenosis and occlusion following upper extremity PICC and port placement.	The purpose of this study was to determine the incidence of central vein stenosis and occlusion following upper extremity placement of peripherally inserted central venous catheters (PICCs) and venous ports. One hundred fifty-four patients who underwent venography of the ipsilateral central veins prior to initial and subsequent venous access device insertion were retrospectively identified. All follow-up venograms were interpreted at the time of catheter placement by one interventional radiologist over a 5-year period and compared to the findings on initial venography. For patients with central vein abnormalities, hospital and home infusion service records and radiology reports were reviewed to determine catheter dwell time and potential alternative etiologies of central vein stenosis or occlusion. The effect of catheter caliber and dwell time on development of central vein abnormalities was evaluated. Venography performed prior to initial catheter placement showed that 150 patients had normal central veins. Three patients had central vein stenosis, and one had central vein occlusion. Subsequent venograms (n = 154) at the time of additional venous access device placement demonstrated 8 patients with occlusions and 10 with stenoses. Three of the 18 patients with abnormal follow-up venograms were found to have potential alternative causes of central vein abnormalities. Excluding these 3 patients and the 4 patients with abnormal initial venograms, a 7% incidence of central vein stenosis or occlusion was found in patients with prior indwelling catheters and normal initial venograms. Catheter caliber showed no effect on the subsequent development of central vein abnormalities. Patients who developed new or worsened central vein stenosis or occlusion had significantly (p = 0.03) longer catheter dwell times than patients without central vein abnormalities. New central vein stenosis or occlusion occurred in 7% of patients following upper arm placement of venous access devices. Patients with longer catheter dwell time were more likely to develop central vein abnormalities. In order to preserve vascular access for dialysis fistulae and grafts and adhere to Dialysis Outcomes Quality Initiative guidelines, alternative venous access sites should be considered for patients with chronic renal insufficiency and end-stage renal disease.
Combined transabdominal and transjugular recanalization of thrombosed TIPS, portal and proximal splenic veins.	We present a case of TIPS occlusion in which a small caliber transhepatic safety or anchoring wire in combination with a standard transjugular approach were utilized to recanalize the TIPS, portal and splenic veins. This technique may be a useful adjunct to the typical methods used for recanalization of thrombosed TIPS, portal and splenic veins without the need of large caliber transhepatic sheath access.
Effect of carotid endarterectomy on primary collateral blood flow in patients with severe carotid artery lesions.	In patients with severe obstruction of the internal carotid artery (ICA), it is recognized that the preoperative failure to visualize collaterals of the circle of Willis increases the risk of hemispheric ischemia before, during, and after carotid endarterectomy (CEA). The purpose of the present study was to assess the effect of CEA on the anatomy and function of the circle of Willis.
True aneurysm of the radial artery after iatrogenic injury and successful reconstruction with an interposition vein graft.	Aneurysm of the radial artery is rare and is usually seen after penetrating traumas. The radial artery is most affected at the distal part where it lies superficially. Iatrogenic injuries, such as catheter placement and arterial blood collection, are important interventions in hospitalized patients. In this paper, the authors present a case with a distal radial artery true aneurysm after prolonged radial artery catheterization. Although treatment of aneurysm of the radial artery is still controversial, they reconstructed the excised segment with an interposition vein graft, and recommend such vessel repair to maintain patency whenever possible.
Clinical and Doppler ultrasonography data of a polyurethane vascular access graft for haemodialysis: a prospective study.	Absence of a permanent vascular access in most patients starting haemodialysis remains a cause of high morbidity and costs. This study obtained new clinical and colour Doppler ultrasound (CDU) data of a polyurethane vascular access graft (PVAG) proposing early post-operative cannulation.
Total occlusion versus hairline residual lumen of the internal carotid arteries: accuracy of single section helical CT angiography.	Routine carotid sonography and MR angiography cannot reliably detect the markedly reduced flow velocities associated with very severe carotid stenosis. In this study, we sought to evaluate the accuracy of single row detector helical CT angiography in distinguishing hairline residual lumen from total occlusion of severely stenosed internal carotid arteries (ICAs).
A new optional vena cava filter: retrieval at 12 weeks in an animal model.	To test the feasibility and safety of percutaneous retrieval of a new inferior vena cava (IVC) filter, the Recovery Filter (RF), acutely and after 12-week implantation in sheep.
Endovascular stent implantation in patients with stenotic aortoarteriopathies: early and medium-term results.	Data regarding stent implantation for stenotic aortoarteriopathy (SAA) are incomplete. We report on nine patients with this rare syndrome who underwent arterial stent implantation. Indications, results, and complications for patients with SAA were reviewed. Nine patients underwent 11 procedures. Twenty-two stents were implanted in the aorta or brachiocephalic vessels. Five patients had diffuse stenoses, three patients had middle aortic syndrome, and one patient had thoracic and abdominal coarctation. Associated diagnoses included Williams syndrome (2), neurofibromatosis (2), Takayasu's (1), and congenital rubella (1). Median gradient was 60 mm Hg (20-140 mm Hg). Poststent gradient was 15 mm Hg (0-60 mm Hg; P < 0.001). Additional stents were implanted in two patients and five underwent stent redilation. Two patients (22%) were found to have aneurysm formation. Stent implantation effectively provides gradient relief in SAA. Gradient reduction persists or is amenable to redilation. Importantly, however, uncomplicated stent implantation does not preclude aneurysm formation and may be more common than in traditional patient groups.
Radial artery patency and clinical outcomes: five-year interim results of a randomized trial.	This study was undertaken to compare elective angiographic patency and cardiac event-free survival of the radial artery graft with that of the free right internal thoracic artery or saphenous vein during a 10-year period after primary coronary artery bypass surgery.
Minimally ischemic off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting: active perfusion-assist with nitroglycerin-supplemented blood.	During off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery, concern remains about possible myocardial injury associated with the transient occlusion and stabilization of the target vessels. To try to minimize myocardial ischemia and achieve hemodynamic stability, we used a coronary perfusion catheter combined with the perfusion-assisted direct coronary artery bypass system, which enables active and modified coronary perfusion of the target vessel throughout the duration of multiple grafting.
Angioplasty in acute myocardial infarction after low-dose alteplase and abciximab in transferred patients. A comparison with primary angioplasty on site.	The most important limitation in primary percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI) for acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is the small number of catheterization laboratories and their non-homogeneous territorial distribution. The aim of this study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of an organizational model based on a network including tertiary referral centers and community hospitals for the treatment of AMI with alteplase plus abciximab followed by PCI.
Role of side branches in determining suitable arterial segments for anastomosis in avulsion injuries: experimental studies.	The role of side branches, when the parent arterial trunk is stretched, with emphasis on preventing the effects of avulsion injury, was investigated in an experimental model. In ten New Zealand rabbits, the femoral arteries were isolated with and without side branches in the left and right legs, respectively, and controlled longitudinal traction was applied. The elongation of the arteries just before avulsion rupture at each side, with and without side branches, was compared, by measuring the initial and final length from the inguinal ligament to the mid-point of the distance between the inguinal ligament and the saphenous bifurcation. Side branches were observed to be tethered in a way that resisted elongation of the trunk artery. Arteries without side branches in the right legs elongated more, as they lacked the fixating and protective support provided by the side branches. Comparison of the two legs, with and without side branches, showed an average of 50 percent more arterial elongation, resulting in severe injury to the arteries without side branches. In the light of these results, the authors suggest performing microsurgical arterial anastomosis after resection past a minimum of two unruptured branch points of the avulsed part, in order to obtain a safer arterial segment for a better patency rate.
High-risk clinical features predict increased post-infarction myocardial apoptosis and the benefits as a result of an open infarct-related artery.	Infarct-related artery (IRA) patency after acute myocardial infarction (AMI) is associated with a more favourable clinical course, in particular in patients with high-risk features. As it has been recently reported that IRA patency is associated with a reduced postinfarction apoptotic rate (AR), the aim of our study was to assess whether IRA status late after AMI had a different impact on AR in high- vs. low-risk patients.
Healing process in anastomosis of homologous venous grafts preserved in glutaraldehyde implanted aorta of rabbits.	Autologous vein (AV) is sometimes not suitable or present for a vascular restoration. Homologous vein preserved in glutaraldehyde may be an alternative to AV, but little is yet known about this graft and its healing process after implantation in arteries. The purpose of this study was to compare the initial healing process of glutaraldehyde-tanned homologous venous grafts (group 1) with fresh autologous venous grafts (group 2), at 4 or 15 days.
Regression of postobstructive vasculopathy after revascularization of chronically obstructed pulmonary artery.	Pulmonary vascular resistance decreases dramatically after pulmonary thromboendarterectomy and further improves in time. This may reflect the slow regression of postobstructive pulmonary vasculopathy. We hypothesized that postobstructive pulmonary vasculopathy may regress after reperfusion in a piglet model of chronic (5 weeks) left pulmonary artery obstruction.
Composite Y internal thoracic artery-saphenous vein grafts: short-term angiographic results and vasoreactive profile.	The angiographic patency of composite Y internal thoracic artery-saphenous vein grafts has not been investigated in detail.
Trendelenburg position, head elevation and a midline position optimize right internal jugular vein diameter.	The right internal jugular (RIJ) is commonly used to provide central venous access, and success of cannulation shows a positive correlation with the vein's diameter. The purpose of this study is to establish the patient position resulting in the largest RIJ diameter.
Primary stent placement for infrarenal aortic stenosis: immediate and midterm results.	To evaluate the safety and the long-term clinical and hemodynamic results of primary stent placement of atherosclerotic calcified stenosis of the infrarenal aorta.
Aortoiliac insufficiency: long-term experience with stent placement for treatment.	To establish and report the authors' experience with the long-term outcomes of aortoiliac stent placement for treatment of chronic lower-extremity ischemia.
Noninvasive assessment of coronary artery bypass graft patency by multislice computed tomography.	Follow-up of coronary artery bypass after cardiac surgery is routinely performed by means of X-ray coronary angiography. However, this is an invasive procedure, expensive and includes ionizing radiation exposure, hospitalization and a small risk of complications. Multislice computed tomography is a noninvasive diagnostic tool that permits the visualization of the cardiac structures, including the coronary arteries. The purpose of our study was to compare multislice computed tomography with conventional angiography for the evaluation of graft patency following cardiac surgery.
Flow dynamics of the St Jude Medical Symmetry aortic connector vein graft anastomosis do not contribute to the risk of acute thrombosis.	The efficacy of the St Jude Medical Symmetry aortic connector (St Jude Medical, Inc, St Paul, Minn) for coronary artery bypass is currently debated. Potential drawbacks are the biocompatibility of the endoluminal device, the need for graft manipulation during the procedure, and the 90 degrees offset of the vein graft from the ascending aorta, which may induce graft kinking and abnormal fluid dynamics. In this article, a computational approach was designed to investigate the fluid dynamics pattern at the proximal graft.
Clinical, angiographic, and intravascular ultrasound characteristics of early saphenous vein graft failure.	We sought to examine saphenous vein graft (SVG) lesions that fail within the first year after operation.
Postoperative changes in duplex ultrasound velocity characteristics in the nonmobilized right internal mammary artery in patients with left internal mammary artery bypass grafting.	The internal mammary artery (IMA) is the conduit of choice in coronary revascularization because of its long-term patency. We analyzed the effect of left internal mammary artery (LIMA) harvesting on sternal perfusion. Diameters and velocity parameters of the nonmobilized right internal mammary artery (RIMA) were noninvasively analyzed with duplex ultrasound in 41 patients with LIMA myocardial revascularization pre- (2.6 +/- 5 days) and postoperatively (4.9 +/- 3.9 months). Data of 41 patients were analyzed; 38 patients underwent all examinations with adequate supraclavicular signals. The proximal RIMA diameter and all velocity parameters increased significantly at follow-up (3.1 +/- 0.6 vs. 3.2 +/- 0.5 mm, p = 0.03; diastolic peak velocity [DPV] 15 +/- 7 vs. 27 +/- 9 cm/sec, p < 0.0001; systolic peak velocity [SPV] 90 +/- 24 vs. 105 +/- 29 cm/sec, p < 0.02). This was more pronounced for the diastolic parameters and for all parameters in the proximal part of the RIMA than in the distal part (DPV 11.9 +/- 10.1 vs. 9.5 +/- 10.2 cm/sec, p = NS; SPV 14.9 +/- 33.9 vs. 7.4 +/- 26.0 cm/sec, p = NS). With longer time intervals of follow-up the increase in all diastolic velocity parameters became less pronounced. As demonstrated in the RIMA velocity parameters, patients with skeletonized LIMA grafts (n = 4) had significantly more flow, suggesting hyperemic flow, than patients with pedicled LIMA grafts (n = 34). Only in diastolic velocity integral (DVI) and systolic/diastolic velocity ratio (SDVRA) were there significant differences between diabetics (n = 9) and nondiabetics (n = 29) and only in DVI between female, (n = 8) and male (n = 30) patients. This study indicates that duplex ultrasound is a useful tool for noninvasive RIMA follow-up in LIMA myocardial revascularization.
Saphenous vein loop to femoral artery arteriovenous fistula: a practical alternative.	Secondary to central venous stenosis or thrombosis, alternate sites for permanent hemodialysis need to be explored. The authors' experience with the greater saphenous vein to common femoral artery loop arteriovenous fistula (GSV-CFA AVF) is presented. A retrospective review was performed of 4 women and 3 men with a mean age of 52.7 (range, 44-68) years. The mean number of prior access procedures was 3.85 (range, 1-5). Duplex ultrasound showed the greater saphenous vein (GSV) to be at least 3 mm in diameter. Perioperatively, no acute occlusion or significant steal syndrome developed. Groin wound complications (57.1%) resolved with local wound care and selectively antibiotic administration. Six patients developed mild to moderate edema, which required knee-high compression stockings. The mean follow-up was 15 (range, 9-24) months. Mean primary patency was 7 months, primary assisted patency was 15 months, and secondary patency was 16 months. The fistula was functional for hemodialysis in 71.4% (5/7). All patients developed stenoses within the GSV loop, with a mean of 3.0 balloon angioplasties per fistula. Three secondary surgical procedures were performed (two pseudoaneurysm repairs, one vein patch angioplasty). The GSV did not increase significantly in diameter. Use of a GSV-CFA AVF for dialysis access has acceptable results for alternate-site hemodialysis access. Secondary procedures were common. Factors recognized to be important for success were an adequate-sized GSV preoperatively, positioning of the GSV loop, and patient body habitus.
Primary stenting of subclavian and innominate artery occlusive disease: a single center's experience.	To review immediate and midterm results of primary stenting for innominate and subclavian artery occlusive lesions.
Long-term follow-up of iliac wallstents.	We evaluated the long-term results of the iliac artery stent placement for the treatment of patients with intermittent claudication. From November 1988 to December 1998, 303 legs were treated with metal stents in 259 patients with iliac occlusive arterial disease in a follow-up study approved by the institutional review board. Stenoses (n = 162) were treated after failed angioplasty and occlusions (n = 141) were treated with primary stent placement. According to Fontaine's clinical classification of chronic ischemia, 266 (88%) legs presented stage IIB, 14 (5%) stage III, and 23 (7%) stage IV. In all legs, self-expandable stents (Wallstent) were implanted. The patients were followed up with clinical examination, ankle brachial- index examination measurement and intravenous angiography. The data were analyzed using the univariate analysis (Kaplan-Meier method) and multivariate analysis (Cox proportional model). The primary endpoint of the study was the identification of restenosis or reoclusion of the stenting arterial segment and a secondary endpoint that was an identification of the risk factors of restenosis and reoclusion. The mean +/- SD ankle-brachial index pre-, post-procedure, and in the last control was 0.58 +/- 0.18, 0.90 +/- 0.23, and 0.86 +/- 0.24, respectively. Primary cumulative patency rates were 70% +/- 4 after 5 years, and 65% +/- 5 after 7 years, and secondary patency rates were 92% +/- 2 after 5 years, and 87% +/- 4 after 9 years. Immediate complications in the first 24 hours appeared in 12 (4%) legs, thrombosis in 5 legs, 3 legs presented with distal embolism, 2 thrombi at the access site and pseudo aneurysm and artery rupture in 1 leg. A patient died in the first 24 hours. Within 30 days after the procedure seven complications, 3 thromboses and 4 stenosis appeared. During follow-up, 42 (16%) patients died of other causes. The main causes of death were cardiac disease (39%), cerebrovascular disease (15%), cancer (7%), respiratory diseases (4%), and death due to accidents (2%), and other causes (9%). In 24% of the cases there was insufficient information to assign a principal cause of death. Thirty-six patients (13%) were lost to follow-up. Complications arose in 54 (18%) legs due to occlusion of the treated segment (29%), and stenosis due to intimal hyperplasia (27%). Thirteen patients required surgical treatment. Primary and secondary patency mean time was 80 +/- 3.7 and 102 +/- 2.4 months, respectively. We found no significant relation between patency and the quality of run-off, but a small vessel diameter and the female gender were negative predictive factors for failure (proportional hazards model). The use of stents for treatment of iliac artery occlusive disease may be considered an effective method with a low complication rate and acceptable long-term follow-up results.
Aortobifemoral grafting: factors influencing long-term results.	We present the results and respective determinant factors of 283 consecutive aortobifemoral bypasses. This prospective study included 283 patients with aortoiliac atherosclerotic occlusive disease treated by aortobifemoral reconstructions. Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) grafts were used in 136 patients and Dacron grafts in 147 patients. The 30-day mortality rate was 11 patients (3.9%). Perioperative (< 30 days) graft failure occurred in 6 patients (2.1%), whereas in 14 (5.25%) patients, it occurred during the follow-up period. There were 3 (1.05%) distal anastomotic pseudoaneurysms and 5 (1.7%) graft infections, with no statistical difference between the two types of grafts. The type of prosthesis did not influence cumulative graft patency. The end-to-end configuration of proximal anastomosis and a simultaneously performed femoropopliteal bypass significantly increased the graft patency (p < .05). The associated occlusion of the superficial femoral and popliteal arteries decreased the cumulative graft patency in comparison with that of the patients without artery disease (p < .05). Our results showed that in the aortobifemoral position, there was no significant difference in the patency, anastomotic pseudoaneurysms, and graft infection between PTFE and Dacron grafts. However, the PTFE grafts had a significantly higher rate (p < .05) of distal anastomotic stenosis, which was mostly caused by neointimal hyperplasia.
Surgical treatment of Buerger's disease.	We aimed to evaluate the characteristics of 198 new patients with Buerger's disease treated surgically in the last decade. We also compared these results with our former series reported in 1993. The records of patients with Buerger's disease who were enrolled in an ongoing investigational protocol between 1991 and 2001 were reviewed. Sympathectomy was carried out in 161 patients and revascularization in 19 patients. The cumulative secondary patency rate was 57.9% for bypass grafts at a mean follow-up of 5.4 years. Clinical outcome following sympathectomy was considered improved in 52.3% of patients, stable in 27.8%, and worse in 19.8%. Seven major and 36 minor amputations were performed, with a limb salvage rate of 95.6%. The aggressiveness of the disease has increased compared with previous series, parallel to the expansion of cigarette consumption. Bypass surgery should be considered for patients with severe ischemia who have target vessels. Sympathectomy still has a role to improve distal flow.
Ultrasonographic measurement of intima-media thickness of the carotid artery before coronary artery bypass grafting.	We evaluated the usefulness of measuring intima-media thickness (IMT) of the carotid artery by ultrasonography before coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
Pressure measurement of coronary artery bypass graft with transducer-tipped catheter]	The pressure of in situ arterial graft was measured with Fiber Optic Transducer-Tipped Pressure Monitoring System (Camino). Internal thoracic artery (ITA) and gastroepiploic artery (GEA) were prepared as in situ grafts, and the pressure at the end of each graft was recorded with ascending aortic pressure (Ao) and electrocardiogram, simultaneously. Although the peak systolic pressures of these grafts were identical, the systolic pressure of ITA and GEA formed narrow contours. While the diastolic pressures of Ao was sustained and high, the diastolic pressures of ITA and GEA showed rapid falling. Therefore, ITA and GEA had the risk of inadequate blood supply. This pressure measurement of in situ arterial graft was an easy and effective method for presumption of the ability of blood supply.
Splenocaval versus mesocaval shunt with artificial vascular graft for the treatment of Budd-Chiari syndrome.	Budd-Chiari syndrome (B-CS) is a disease with a poor prognosis, and the results of medication are not satisfactory. Surgical treatments are widely used to depress portal hypertension and hypertension of the inferior vena cava. Splenocaval shunt is usually applied to treat intrahepatic portal hypertension, but we used this method to treat patients with B-CS successfully.
Arterial reconstruction with donor iliac vessels during pancreas transplantation: an intraoperative approach to arterial injury or inadequate flow.	Outcome of pancreas transplantation (PTX) has improved because of use of novel immunosuppression and advances in surgical technique. It is not uncommon for severe atherosclerosis in patients with type 1 insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus or the presence of a previously transplanted organ to limit the options for vascular anastomosis. Herein we report the novel application of donor iliac arterial interposition grafts for arterial reconstruction in patients with severe iliac artery arteriosclerosis, and/or previous transplant who develop an arterial injury or stenosis during surgery.
Hypercoagulability affecting early vein graft patency does not exist after off-pump coronary artery bypass.	Hypercoagulability may compromise the patency of bypass grafts. The authors hypothesized that perioperative in vitro platelet responses to varying agonists (eg, thrombin, platelet activating factor, collagen, adenosine diphosphate) correlate with early graft thrombosis after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB).
Popliteal-to-distal bypass for limb-threatening ischemia.	In a subset of patients requiring lower extremity revascularization, the popliteal artery may be used for inflow, thereby minimizing dissection and the length of vein required for bypass. This retrospective study was done to define the risks and benefits of arterial reconstruction in a population of patients having popliteal-to-distal bypass procedures. Between 1986 and 1990, 32 surgical procedures were performed on 29 patients. The patient's ages ranged from 46 to 86 years, with a mean age of 68 years. Twenty-four of 29 (83%) were men and 19 of the 29 (66%) had diabetes. Most patients had multiple indications for surgical intervention, and these included rest pain (54%), nonhealing ulcers (64%), and gangrene (29%). Arterial bypass with use of the popliteal artery for the proximal anastomosis was performed with in situ saphenous vein (50%), reversed saphenous vein (41%), and orthograde autologous vein (9%). Distal anastomoses were to the posterior tibial artery in 11 bypasses (33%), the peroneal artery in 10 (30%), the anterior tibial artery in two (6%), and the dorsal pedal artery in 10 (30%). Two deaths occurred in the perioperative period for an operative mortality rate of 6.9%. With use of life-table analysis, the cumulative graft patency rate was 97% at 1 year, 97% at 2 years, and 63.5% at 4 years. The overall cumulative limb salvage rate was 90.1% at 1 year, 90.1% at 2 years, and 78.8% at 4 years.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A new vascularized nerve graft model in the rabbit.	The macro- and microanatomy of the rabbit median nerve were studied for the purpose of developing a vascularized nerve graft (VNG) model. A segment of median nerve was then designed as a vascularized graft to serve as a model. This model consists of a 1-cm long median nerve segment and its accompanying brachial artery and vein 3 cm in length, with an arteriovenous fistula created distally. The model was tested by using the VNG to repair an intratemporal facial nerve defect and proven to be reliable. Its monofascicular pattern and diameter match those of the reconstructed facial nerve, making this model unique, compared to other models previously described.
Platelets, prostaglandins, and patency in microvascular surgery.	In light of recent research dealing with the proaggregatory and antiaggregatory effects of prostaglandins on the primary hemostatic event of platelet aggregation, we suggest that patency in microvascular surgery be viewed from a new perspective. The sequence of events in platelet aggregation and the effects of the products of arachidonic acid metabolism on these events are reviewed. Drugs affecting platelet aggregation are classified according to their sites of action. In particular, heparin, dextran, and aspirin are discussed in relation to new information regarding their effects on arachidonic acid metabolism. Original early experimental work and clinical reports from the literature are discussed with a view toward future directions for research in improving patency in microvascular surgery.
Bipolar anastomosis technique (BAT) enables "fast-to-do", high-quality venous end-to-end anastomosis in a new vascular model.	The interrupted suture technique is most commonly used for microsurgical venous anastomosis. Needle-stitch trauma and intraluminal suture, however, potentially cause vascular wall damage, thrombosis, intimal hyperplasia or even stenosis. Therefore, the present study aimed to show the feasibility and reliability of a modified cuff technique (bipolar anastomosis technique (BAT)) for venous end-to-end anastomosis in a new chicken throat vascular model. In ex vivo experiments, freshly resected chicken jugular veins (N = 96) were used to find ideal BAT time to current settings for venous end-to-end anastomosis. Thereafter, the left jugular vein of chickens (N = 40) was dissected in vivo and subsequently anastomosed using BAT. The quality of anastomosis was evaluated by Doppler sonography immediately, at two hours and at two, six, 12, 16, and 29 weeks after surgery. Additional histological examination took place at two hours (N = 8) and at two (N = 6), six (N = 6), 12 (N = 6), 16 (N = 6) and 29 (N = 6) weeks after surgery. Immediately after surgery (N = 40) and at two hours (N = 38) venous anastomoses were found to be patent in Doppler sonography. Anastomotic rupture caused death in two animals within one hour after surgery. Thrombotic occlusion was found in one animal at six weeks after surgery. In the remaining animals (N = 37) only minimal stenosis which decreased to almost normal levels was sonographically found. The average time needed for anastomosis using BAT was less than two minutes. BAT allows fast venous end-to-end anastomosis in a chicken throat vascular model.
Comparison between two on-line reversed line position hemodialysis vascular access flow measurement techniques: saline dilution and thermodilution.	Periodical access flow measurements can predict the development and presence of vascular access flow-limiting stenosis and subsequent thrombosis. Access flow measurement has become a standard in vascular access care. Different techniques to measure access flow are available. The aim of this study was to compare an integrated access flow measurement device, based on thermodilution (Blood Temperature Monitor, BTM, Fresenius Medical Care, Bad Homburg, Germany), with the gold standard, the HD01 (Transonic Systems Inc., Ithaca, NY), whose technique is based on saline dilution. In 40 patients with end-stage renal disease, 40 vascular accesses were studied to determine the correlation between access flow measurements by both techniques. Reproducibility of access flow measurements by both techniques was assessed in 20 patients on a weekly interval.A total of 40 measurement series were performed. Average access flow measured with the saline technique and the thermodilution technique was 1053 (+/-495) ml/min and 1034 (+/-527) ml/min, respectively (p = ns) (n = 40). Correlation between access flow measurements by both techniques expressed in R was 0.79 (r = 0.89). Reproducibility of saline and thermodilution subsequent measurements with a weekly interval, expressed in relative difference (Delta xrel) was 13 (+/-11)% and 24 (+/-14)%, respectively (p < 0.01) (n = 20).BTM access flow measurements correlated well with the HD01 access flow measurements. However, the better reproducibility of HD01 and shorter measurement time compared with BTM access flow measurements should be considered when implementing access flow measurement to prevent vascular access failure.
Direct platelet effect of low molecular weight dextran in small calibre PTFE grafts.	The thrombogenicity of synthetic vascular grafts is a major factor in occlusion of grafts when they are used to bypass small calibre arteries. In this paper, the effect of low molecular weight dextran (LMWD, Dextran-40) on graft surface-platelet interaction was studied using Indium-III-oxine labelled platelets. It was found that LMWD significantly reduced platelet deposition onto graft surfaces (P less than 0.001). Dextran had a direct antiplatelet effect independent of plasma volume expansion as dextran-soaked grafts significantly reduced platelet deposition when compared to systemic dextran administration (P less than 0.001). We therefore conclude that LMWD has a direct antiplatelet effect which is beneficial in reducing platelet deposition on synthetic PTFE grafts which may improve the early patency of such grafts.
Which factors determine the development of late potentials after first myocardial infarction? A multifactorial analysis.	A multifactorial analysis was performed to study the factors that contributed to the occurrence of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram in 106 consecutive patients with a first myocardial infarction. Ninety-three (88%) patients received intravenous thrombolytic therapy within 6 hours of symptom onset. Thirty-two (30%) patients had a late potential on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram on day 6, including 17 of 31 (55%) in whom the infarct-related artery was occluded and 15 of 75 (20%) in whom it was patent (P = 0.0004). Twenty-three variables were analyzed by a multifactorial stepwise regression analysis. Predictors of a late potential were (1) an occluded infarct-related coronary artery (t = -3.653, P = 0.0004) and (2) the extent of myocardial necrosis as indicated by the peak serum lactate dehydrogenase level (t = 3.094, P = 0.0025). The lower incidence of late potentials when the infarct-related coronary artery was patent was independent of left ventricular ejection fraction and peak enzyme levels after infarction.
The open artery hypothesis: beneficial effects and long-term prognostic importance of patency of the infarct-related coronary artery.	There seem to be additional mechanisms of benefit in patients receiving late reperfusion therapy in a time when the opportunity for myocardial salvage has been missed. Previous studies have demonstrated that the restoration of blood flow in the infarct-related coronary artery in patients with acute myocardial infarction improves left ventricular function and reduces mortality. Initially, it was thought that survival was improved because viable myocardium was salvaged. However, data obtained over the past several years have suggested that the restoration of antegrade flow in the infarct-related artery may improve survival via a mechanism independent of the influence on left ventricular function. Clinical interest in the open artery hypothesis has recently resurfaced owing to a substantial improvement in technical aspects of percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI). Observational data suggest a role for late intervention as safer and more effective mechanical reperfusion practices have emerged. Long-term clinical benefits have been shown from balloon angioplasty late after myocardial infarction (MI). Therefore, patients with failed thrombolysis or those with late-presenting MI may still benefit from PCI by mechanisms independent of myocardial salvage. There is accumulative evidence on this matter. Possible mechanisms include reduction of ventricular remodeling, diminished ventricular instability reducing the incidence of arrhythmias, and provision of collaterals to other territories in the event of further coronary artery occlusion. However, caution must be exercised in interpreting the results of studies examining the open artery hypothesis. This hypothesis can be tested in its purest sense in animal experiments; however, the clinical situation is much more complex. Patients may have acute-on-chronic coronary artery occlusion in the presence of multivessel disease and well-developed collateral channels. The pattern of necrosis may also be different with areas of necrosis separated by islands of ischemic, stunned, hibernating, or normal cells. Therefore, the patency of the infarct-related coronary artery in single or multivessel disease days to weeks after infarction markedly influences long-term prognosis unrelated to improvement of left ventricular function. Current technology has made it feasible to open and maintain patency of most occluded infarct-related arteries. However, the hypothesis that late mechanical reperfusion in patients with asymptomatic occluded infarct-related artery will improve long-term clinical outcomes remains to be proved and is currently being tested in a large randomized trial.
Excimer Laser Assisted Non-occlusive Anastomosis (ELANA). Our experience with a training model in vivo.	In this study the ELANA Technique has been reproduced in our experimental laboratory in order to verify its feasibility and reproducibility, the percentage of patent anastomosis in acute at different steps along the learning curve of the surgical team, specific problems related to the surgical technique.
Primary revision of mid-vein stenoses in venous bypass conduits: venous patch versus interposition vein.	Patients after infrainguinal vein bypasses are a group at risk of graft stenosis and occlusion. Revision of failing grafts has been shown to significantly improve bypass patency and limb salvage. Options for surgical revision of mid bypass stenosis includes either patch angioplasty (PA) or interposition grafting (IG). We reviewed our experience with surgical revision of vein bypass stenosis.
The final 10-year follow-up results from the BARI randomized trial.	We sought to compare 10-year clinical outcomes in the BARI (Bypass Angioplasty Revascularization Investigation) trial patients who were randomly assigned to percutaneous transluminal coronary balloon angioplasty (PTCA) versus coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG).
Does PGA external stenting reduce compliance mismatch in venous grafts?	Autogenous vein grafting is widely used in regular bypassing procedures. Due to its mismatch with the host artery in both mechanical property and geometry, the graft often over expands under high arterial blood pressure and forms a step-depth where eddy flow develops, thus causing restenosis, fibrous graft wall, etc. External stents, such as sheaths being used to cuff the graft, have been introduced to eliminate these mismatches and increase the patency. Although histological and immunochemical studies have shown some positive effects of the external stent, the mechanical mismatch under the protection of an external stent remains poorly analyzed.
Factors affecting circuit patency and filter 'life'.	Frequent clotting applying continuous renal replacement therapy means treatment can be inadequate and with increased costs for circuits and nursing time. Patency of the extracorporeal circuit is commonly achieved using anticoagulants such as heparin. When anticoagulants are not used, or clotting occurs within a few hours of use, with anticoagulation, blood flow failure is a likely cause. The blood pump can fail to deliver without operator awareness. Clotting within the membrane and/or venous 'air-trap' chamber is common where resistance to blood flow is high with stasis and turbulence. The design of the venous chamber allows the blood fill level to oscillate and form a clot, with a blood filter at the exit of the chamber also causing clot development. Several practices attempt to prevent clotting, however most without evidence. Adding heparin to the circuit during the preparation phase, ensuring that the access catheter is not obstructed, a blood flow setting of >or=200 ml/min, and administration of substitution fluids before the membrane (predilution) can be useful strategies for increasing circuit patency. An audit of filter life is useful and necessary feedback to nursing staff training strategies. This promotes safety and, when circuit patency is poor, may reflect poor troubleshooting ability.
Results and complications of angioplasty in fibromuscular disease.	Percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) was used to treat 66 patients with 85 renal artery stenoses due to fibromuscular dysplasia. The hypertension was refractory to medical management in 46 patients, and the initial success rate was 100%. Clinical follow-up has been obtained in all patients, who were followed for as long as 121 months. The recurrence rates were 8% of lesions and 10% of patients. Cumulative patency rate predicted for 10 years was 87.07%. The mean systolic pressure decreased by 52 mm Hg and the mean diastolic pressure decreased by 35 mm Hg in response to treatment. Twenty-six patients (39%) were cured, 39 (59%) were classified as improved, and one (2%) did not respond to PTA. Fourteen of the patients also had elevated blood urea nitrogen and creatinine levels. Renal function was improved in 86% of the patients and stabilized in 14% of the patients. Analysis of the long-term results suggests that PTA should be the initial treatment for choice of patients with fibromuscular dysplasia in the renal arteries.
Standards for evaluating results of interventional therapy for peripheral vascular disease.	Uniform standards for evaluating and reporting the results of therapeutic interventions for peripheral vascular disease are clearly needed. They are already established for vascular surgery, as represented by several reports by SVS/ISCVS committees, but they are not always followed by vascular surgeons and have been largely ignored by other vascular interventionists. In this article, the major problematic reporting practices are discussed and illustrated, and 14 recommendations are advanced to deal with them. They are intended to provide precise definitions, objective criteria of success or failure, standardized severity gradation schemes for peripheral vascular disease and its risk factors, and proper procedures for reporting the outcome of all forms of therapeutic intervention. Until these or some other agreed upon reporting standards are accepted and followed, the literature on peripheral vascular disease and its management will continue to be a source of confusion rather than enlightenment.
Lack of diameter effect on short-term patency of size-matched Dacron aortobifemoral grafts.	This study examined the relationship between graft diameter and subsequent patency in 79 patients who received Dacron aortobifemoral bypass grafts for aortoiliac occlusive disease between 1985 and 1989. Sixty-five percent of these patients were men, 25% were diabetic, and 94% were smokers, with an average age of 62 years. Patients were followed for a mean interval of 24 months. Life-table survival was 92% at 3 years. All surviving patients showed "significant" postoperative improvement by use of Society for Vascular Surgery/International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery combined clinical and vascular laboratory criteria. There were three early and five late graft thromboses. Primary and secondary life-table patencies were 85% and 92%, respectively, at 3 years. Dacron bifurcation grafts were selected to match the size of native arteries. Patients receiving small diameter grafts, defined as 12 mm (n = 9) and 14 mm (n = 39), were compared with patients receiving large diameter grafts of 16 mm (n = 26) and 18 mm (n = 5). Small diameter grafts were more likely to be used in women (p less than 0.01), but patient groups were otherwise comparable with respect to age, smoking history, diabetes, outflow status, operative indications, type of proximal anastomosis (end-to-end or end-to-side), location of distal anastomosis (common femoral vs deep femoral), type of graft construction (knitted vs woven), and functional result. Graft diameter did not influence life-table patency, which was 84% for small and 87% for large diameter grafts at 3 years (p = 0.74). Furthermore, none of the other variables listed above influenced graft patency.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Monitoring functional patency of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.	Duplex scanning and Doppler-derived blood pressure measurements were used to serially monitor lower limb hemodynamics in 73 patients who underwent percutaneous transluminal angioplasty. Ninety percutaneous transluminal angioplasty sites judged technically satisfactory by arteriography were evaluated. Significant hemodynamic improvement was seen in 81 (90%) of the 90 limbs, although both hemodynamic and clinical improvement were achieved in only 77 (86%) limbs. Duplex scanning within 1 week of successful angioplasty identified moderate (20% to 49% diameter reduction) or severe (greater than 50% diameter reduction) residual stenosis in 49 (63%) of 77 balloon-dilated arterial segments. The presence of a greater than 50% diameter reduction residual stenosis predicted further restenosis and late clinical failure (11% success rate at 1 year). When the degree of residual stenosis at the percutaneous transluminal angioplasty site was less than 50% diameter reduction by duplex scanning, the procedure was durable (80% success rate at 2 years), even in patients with critical ischemia, poor runoff, or diabetes mellitus.
Technical aspects of compliance assessment.	Basically 2 methods are available to transcutaneously assess the compliance of arteries using ultrasound. One method is based on the pulse wave velocity (mean compliance over a segment), while the other is based on the local distension waveform of an artery (local compliance). Both methods assume compliance to be independent of local blood pressure. The latter method requires accurate assessment of the diameter of the artery under investigation at the onset of a cardiac cycle, the distension during the cardiac cycle and the local pulse pressure. A new method is described to obtain reliable estimates for the arterial diameter and the change in diameter as function of time.
Late potentials on signal-averaged electrocardiograms and patency of the infarct-related artery in survivors of acute myocardial infarction.	This study evaluated the relation between patency of the infarct-related artery and the presence of late potentials on the signal-averaged electrocardiogram (ECG) in 124 consecutive patients (98 men, 26 women; mean age 59 years) with acute myocardial infarction receiving thrombolytic therapy, acute percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty or standard care. All patients were studied by coronary angiography, measurement of ejection fraction and signal-averaged ECG. The infarct-related artery was closed in 51 patients and open in 73. Among patients with no prior myocardial infarction undergoing early attempted reperfusion therapy, a patent artery was associated with a decreased incidence of late potentials (20% versus 71%; no significant difference in ejection fraction). In the 48 patients receiving thrombolytic agents within 4 h of symptom onset, the incidence of late potentials was 24% and 83% among patients with an open or closed artery, respectively (p less than 0.04). The most powerful predictors of late potentials were the presence of a closed infarct-related artery, followed by prior infarction and patient age. Among patients receiving thrombolytic agents within 4 h of symptom onset, the only variable that was predictive of the presence of late potentials was a closed infarct-related artery. These data imply that reperfusion of an infarct-related artery has a beneficial effect on the electrophysiologic substrate for serious ventricular arrhythmias that is independent of change in left ventricular ejection fraction as an index of infarct size. These findings might explain, in part, the low late mortality rate in survivors of myocardial infarction with documented reperfusion of the infarct-related artery.
Kistrin, a polypeptide platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonist, enhances and sustains coronary arterial thrombolysis with recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator in a canine preparation.	Kistrin is a 68-amino acid polypeptide from the venom of the Malayan pit viper Agkistrodon rhodostoma, which inhibits the platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor. Its effect on thrombolysis, reocclusion, and bleeding associated with administration of recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was studied in a canine model of coronary artery thrombosis.
Comparison of the effects of streptokinase and tissue plasminogen activator on regional wall motion after first myocardial infarction: analysis by the centerline method with correction for area at risk.	In a trial of streptokinase versus recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) for a first myocardial infarction, 270 patients were randomized. Regional left ventricular function was assessed in 214 patients at 3 weeks. The infarct-related artery was the left anterior descending artery in 78 patients, the right coronary artery in 122 and a dominant left circumflex artery in 14. Analysis was by the centerline method with a novel correction for the area of myocardium at risk, whereby the search region was determined by the anatomic distribution of the infarct-related artery. Infarct-artery patency at 3 weeks was 73% in the streptokinase group and 71% in the rt-PA group. Global left ventricular function did not differ between the two groups. Mean chord motion (+/- SD) in the most hypokinetic half of the defined search region was similar in the streptokinase and rt-PA groups (-2.4 +/- 1.5 versus -2.3 +/- 1.3, p = 0.63). There were no differences in hyperkinesia of the noninfarct zone. Compared with conventional centerline analysis, regional wall motion in the defined area at risk was significantly more abnormal. The two methods correlated strongly, however (r = 0.99, p less than 0.0001), and both methods produced similar overall results. Patients with a patent infarct-related artery and those with an occluded artery at the time of catheterization had similar levels of global function (ejection fraction 58 +/- 12% versus 57 +/- 12%, p = 0.58).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Regression and persistence: remodelling in a tissue engineered axial vascular assembly.	In later stages of vasculoangiogenesis a vascular network is going through a metamorphosis for optimal perfusion and economy of energy. In this study we make a quantitative approach to phenomena of remodelling in a bioartificial neovascular network and suggest variance of calibre as a parameter of neovascular maturation. For this study, 18 male Lewis rats were subjected to the AV loop operation in combination with a hard porous biogenic matrix and an isolation chamber. The animals were allocated into three groups for different explantation intervals set to 2, 4 and 8 weeks, respectively. Collective attributes like vascular density, percent fractional area and variance of calibre were evaluated for a predefined region of interest (ROI). Late morphogenesis was evaluated by means of scanning electron microscopy. After the fourth week the absolute number of vessels within the ROI decreased (P < 0.03) whereas, on the contrary, the fractional area of all segments increased (P < 0.02). The variance in calibre was significantly increased in the 8-week group (P < 0.05). Lymphatic growth after week 4, early pericyte migration as well as intussusceptive angiogenesis were identified immunohistologically. Phenomena of remodelling were evaluated quantitatively in a neovascular network and variance could be proposed as a parameter of net vascular maturation.
The intrinsic transit time of free microvascular flaps: clinical and prognostic implications.	Microscope-integrated indocyanine green near-infrared videoangiography (ICGA) is a new method for the intraoperative assessment of vascular flow through microvascular anastomoses. The intrinsic transit time (ITT) describes the time period from the dye appears at the arterial anastomosis (t(1)) till it reaches the suture line of the venous anastomosis (t(2)). As the transit time reflects blood flow velocity within the flap, prolonged ITT might correlate with low blood flow and a higher rate of postoperative thrombosis. We performed a clinical trial evaluating the association between intraoperative free flap transit time and early anastomotic complications in elective microsurgery.
Endothelium-dependent responses in long-term human coronary artery bypass grafts.	In the present study, responses of long-term human coronary artery bypass grafts (CABGs) to known endothelium-dependent vasodilators, acetylcholine, calcium ionophore A23187, thrombin, and histamine, as well as authentic nitric oxide, the putative endothelium-derived relaxing factor, were studied. Sixteen CAGBs were isolated within 1-2 hours from hearts of 14 patients receiving a cardiac transplant. A total of 109 ring segments were prepared from these CABGs and studied in vitro. The duration of the CABGs ranged from 7 months to 12 years. Addition of acetylcholine (0.01-10 microM), calcium ionophore A23187 (0.01-1.0 microM), thrombin (0.01-1.0 unit/ml), and histamine (0.01-1.0 microM) consistently produced a dose- and endothelium-dependent relaxation, reaching a maximum of -35.3 +/- 3.3%, -45.3 +/- 5.5%, -26.9 +/- 4.8%, and -17.8 +/- 2.5% (mean +/- SEM), respectively. No significant difference was observed among the CABGs with different duration of transplantation, whereas the relaxant responses of different segments along the entire length of a CABG were markedly different. These latter differences in the endothelium-dependent responses appear to correlate inversely with the development of intimal proliferative lesions in these CABGs. Addition of nitric oxide (0.01-10 microM) produced a potent dose- and endothelium-independent relaxation, which was also slightly depressed in CABGs with severe intimal proliferation. These results demonstrate that long-term transplanted human saphenous vein grafts retain their endothelium-dependent responses and that development of severe intimal proliferative lesions, rather than the duration of the grafts, result in marked alterations in the reactivity of these transplanted CABGs.
The role of continued drinking in loss of portal perfusion after distal splenorenal shunt.	Fifty percent of patients with alcoholic cirrhosis who undergo distal splenorenal shunting for variceal bleeding lose portal perfusion within 1 year. Although it was previously considered that this loss of portal flow was irrevocable, the present study shows that with resolution of alcoholic hepatitis, portal perfusion can be restored. A 34-year-old patient with alcoholic liver disease and a distal splenorenal shunt lost portal perfusion 1 year after the operation. He had continued to drink alcohol and had high sinusoidal pressure. Following forced abstinence over the next 2 years, his sinusoidal pressure fell, liver volume decreased, results of liver biopsy improved, and portal perfusion was restored. Shunt patency was documented, and the same collaterals from the portal vein to the shunt could still be visualized as had been seen when portal flow was absent. Restoration of portal perfusion was attributed to decreased intrahepatic resistance secondary to abstinence from alcohol. A return to drinking in the next 9 months led to alcoholic hepatitis and once again loss of portal perfusion. This study places emphasis on increased intrahepatic resistance rather than the development of portal-to-shunt collaterals as important in the loss of portal flow in such patients.
Results and follow-up after percutaneous pulsed laser-assisted balloon angioplasty guided by spectroscopy.	Few data are available on the long-term outcome of patients who undergo laser-assisted balloon angioplasty for recanalization of occluded peripheral arteries. Because the cost of laser angioplasty is high, the value of the method should be carefully analyzed before it can be considered a routine method for recanalization. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the early and late results of laser-assisted balloon angioplasty in patients who could not be recanalized by conventional techniques.
Assessment of internal jugular vein flow and patency with power duplex Doppler ultrasonography after functional neck dissection]	The purpose of this study was to assess the patency of the internal jugular vein after functional neck dissection.
New technique of vascularization of the trachea and bronchus for lung transplantation.	Ischemic necrosis is implicated as a major cause of dehiscence and stenosis of the airway anastomosis in double and single lung transplants. A new surgical technique to maintain systemic arterial blood flow to the transplanted airways by preserving the donor tracheobronchial arterial circulation was investigated. In a primate model, the tracheobronchial arterial circulation to the transplanted airways was maintained by inclusion of an aortic segment with its bronchial arteries and tracheal collaterals in continuity with the lung bloc. The aortic segment, from just proximal to the left subclavian artery to the level of the pulmonary hilum, was vascularized by anastomosis of the subclavian artery to the recipient left subclavian artery or ascending aorta. Double lung transplantation was performed in three baboons; two survived 48 hours, and one was killed at 30 days. One baboon with a left single lung transplant was killed at 30 days, and one baboon with a right single lung transplant survived 22 days. Angiograms obtained 14 days after transplantation showed patent subclavian anastomoses and aortic segments. Postmortem examination revealed patent subclavian anastomoses without thrombi in the aortic segments. There was no airway necrosis, dehiscence, or stenosis. Tracheal and bronchial anastomoses of surviving animals were healed. Histologic examination revealed typical respiratory tissues without ischemia or necrosis. Radiographic examination of aortic segments injected with lead oxide showed patent bronchial arteries extending along the donor trachea and bronchi and to the anastomotic sites. These experimental studies demonstrate that this technique maintains the donor tracheobronchial arterial circulation and may improve tracheal and bronchial anastomotic healing.
Longterm study of a compliant biological vascular graft.	Clinically implanted prostheses of biological origin have recently been shown to develop aneurysms within several years. To study this process, recently developed bovine heterografts that were implanted in canine ilio-femoral arteries for 27 to 45 months, were studied in vivo and in vitro. Seven out of seven grafts were patent with only one showing evidence of focal aneurysm. Measurements of mechanical properties, including water permeability, compliance, and burst pressure, and of heat shrink temperature and dry weight were obtained before and after a period of controlled exposure to bacterial collagenase; all data suggested that much of the original graft had been replaced with host tissue. However, enzyme susceptibility was less than that of fresh bovine arteries, indicating that at least some of the grafts' crosslinked collagen was preserved. The compliance of these explants was similar to that reported for autogenous vein. Histological examination of the graft wall revealed cellular "intimal" and adventitial zones containing host-generated collagen surrounding a central zone devoid of cellular infiltration, which appears to be unmodified graft "media" highly resistant to degradation. We conclude that, when properly processed, biological prostheses can act as a bioresorbable scaffold for the orderly replacement of structural elements during healing, promoting continued mechanical integrity of the graft. These promising results encourage the further development of prostheses of biological origin.
Digital artery calibre measurement--a new technique of assessing Raynaud's phenomenon.	This study evaluated the use of a high frequency A-mode ultrasound scanner (CUTECH DM70) for monitoring the digital artery vasospasm of Raynaud's Phenomenon (RP). The technique was evaluated on 12 RP patients and 12 age and sex matched controls. The diameter of a single digital artery was measured in these subjects over a range of finger temperatures between 14-35 degrees C. The reproducibility of the measurements was assessed by repeating the procedure in two subjects (a control and an RP patient) on 5 separate days. The results confirmed that the technique is reproducible and monitored vasospasm occurring in all 12 RP patients. In the temperature range tested, none of the controls developed digital artery vasospasm. At finger temperatures greater than 25 degrees C the response to thermal stimuli of the digital arteries in RP patients and controls was similar. However, at temperatures less than 25 degrees C a marked vasoconstriction leading to complete digital artery closure was seen in the RP patients and not in the controls. This technique may prove useful in monitoring RP patients.
Hemodynamic and metabolic responses to graded microvascular occlusion.	The hemodynamic and metabolic consequences of microvascular occlusion, often present in the runoff bed of distal arterial reconstructions, have been difficult to quantitate clinically. To investigate these pathophysiologic relationships, a porcine hindlimb model was developed in which arteriolar patency, which we term outflow capacity, may be quantitatively defined and reduced by serial distal microembolization with 70 microns flow-directed glass bubbles. In 10 anesthetized adult pigs, hindlimb perfusion was limited to femoral artery flow (FAF) by collateral ligation. Serial measurements of outflow resistance (OR), femoral artery flow, and resting muscle pH (mpH), a metabolic index of tissue perfusion, were made as relative outflow capacity (ROC) underwent graded reduction from 1.0 (baseline) to 0 (complete occlusion). Femoral artery flow decreased linearly (FAF = 87 ROC - 3), and outflow resistance increased in hyperbolic fashion (OR = 1.66/ROC) in response to graded peripheral microembolization, whereas resting muscle pH followed a more complex relationship (In mpH = 0.055 ROC + 1.95). An integrated analysis of these results suggests that a 50% to 60% reduction in arteriolar patency represents a critical point beyond which outflow resistance rises rapidly and hindlimb flow decreases to levels that are inadequate to support the metabolic demands of resting tissues.
A flexible approach to infrapopliteal vein grafts in patients with diabetes mellitus.	From October 1985 to August 1989, we performed 156 dorsalis pedis artery bypasses in 146 patients, 139 (95%) of whom had diabetes mellitus. A variety of surgical techniques were used to shorten surgery, limit incision length, and optimize size-matching between vein grafts and arteries whenever possible. Arterial inflow was from the common femoral artery in 58 cases, from the distal superficial femoral or popliteal artery in 88 cases, from a tibial artery in three cases, and from a preexisting bypass in seven cases. In situ (75 cases), ex situ reversed- or nonreversed-vein (62), composite vein (nine), and polytetrafluoroethylene (one) bypasses were constructed. Four patients (2.7%) died, and seven grafts (4.5%) failed within 30 days. Actuarial patency and limb salvage 6 to 52 months after surgery were 87.1% and 91.6%, respectively. There were no significant differences in patency between in situ and ex situ vein grafts (93.2% vs 89.7%) or between common femoral artery inflow site and distal superficial femoral/popliteal artery inflow site (89.3% vs 88%).
The clinical presentation of acute myocardial infarction predicts the severity of the lesion in the infarct-related artery.	The purpose of this study was to correlate the clinical presentation of acute myocardial infarction with the patency rate and degree of residual stenosis of the infarct-related artery. One hundred and forty-five patients who underwent angiography after acute myocardial infarction were divided into two groups according to the time of onset of anginal pain prior to infarction. Group A comprised 119 patients, (109 men, 10 women, aged 53 +/- 9 years) who did not experience any symptoms before infarction or with anginal pain of less than 5 days preceding myocardial infarction, and group B 26 patients (all men, aged 54 +/- 12 years) with previous stable angina for greater than or equal to 1 year. Twenty-two days after acute myocardial infarction, 68 of the 145 patients (47%) had a patent infarct-related artery: 64 patients in group A (54%) and four patients in group B (15.4%) (P less than 0.006). Furthermore, 19 patients in group A (16%) and none in group B had less than 70% stenosis in the infarct-related artery (P less than 0.02). The mean residual stenosis in group A was 83.3 +/- 27% whereas in group B it was 98.1 +/- 4% (P less than 0.001). These results indicate that a long-standing history of angina before acute myocardial infarction is often related to a severe pre-existing atheromatous obstruction, which would account for the higher incidence of total coronary occlusion observed in group B. Thus angina of recent onset preceding acute myocardial infarction is associated with a higher patency rate of the infarct-related artery and frequent less than 70% residual lesions.
Determinants for successful sequential radial artery grafting to the left circumflex and right coronary arteries.	The aim of this retrospective observational study was to delineate determinants for antegrade flow and entire patency of the sequential radial artery graft (RAG) in the left circumflex artery (LCX) and right coronary artery (RCA). Angiograms of 432 RAGs, which were sequentially anastomosed to the LCX and RCA, and were proximally anastomosed with the in-situ internal thoracic artery as the composite I- or Y-graft, were studied. The mean targets of RAG were 2.830.79. We examined effects of characteristics of RAG and the targets, such as native coronary stenosis and their combinations, on competitive flow and occlusion. Of 432 RAGs, 413 (95.6%) were patent to all targets, while 331 (76.6%) provided antegrade flow to all targets in sequential anastomoses. By the univariate and multivariate analyses, 51-75% stenosis of the most distal target was identified as the significant predictor of competitive flow or occlusion (OR=8.59, P<0.0001). The cumulative graft patency rate of RAGs with 76-100% stenosis of the most distal target at 40 months was 88.6%, whereas that of RAGs with 51-75% stenosis of the most distal target was 59.1% (P<0.0001). In sequential RAG, severity of stenosis in the most distal target had the significant impact on prevention of competitive flow and long-term patency to all targets.
Perivascular fat-derived leptin: a potential role in improved vein graft performance in coronary artery bypass surgery.	Perivascular tissue (PVT) surrounding many blood vessels, including those used as bypass conduits, is the source of adipocyte-derived relaxing factors, one of which is leptin. Here, we assessed leptin levels and identified leptin localization in the cushion of fat surrounding 'no-touch-harvested' saphenous veins (SVs) used as grafts in 15 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). Leptin protein was identified in perivascular fat (PVF) extracts by Western blot analysis and leptin levels were 2.2 (0.5-4.2) ng/mg protein [mean (range), n=10] as assessed by ELISA. There was dense leptin immunostaining of fat and adipocyte membranes surrounding these no-touch SV grafts. PVT-derived factors are suggested to play an important role in the superior patency rate of the internal thoracic artery used as a bypass graft. Our findings suggest that, as a potent vasodilator, PVF-derived leptin may also play an important role both at harvesting and in the improved long-term performance of no-touch SVs in patients undergoing CABG.
Uncovered stent-graft in the treatment for residual patent false lumen after surgical repair for acute type A aortic dissection.	Patent false lumen after surgery for acute type A aortic dissection (AAAD) influences the outcome with increased risk of aortic rupture and visceral malperfusion. We report a case of a patient previously operated on for aortic valve repair and replacement of the ascending aorta because of AAAD, presenting at follow-up with a retrograde dissection in aortic arch, persistent patent false lumen and significative aortic enlargement. An extensive (arch and thoraco-abdominal aorta) successful repair was performed using uncovered stent grafts. We welcome discussion on the real indication of this alternative approach and advantages and disadvantages on mid-/long-term follow-up.
The Scandinavian Propaten() trial - 1-year patency of PTFE vascular prostheses with heparin-bonded luminal surfaces compared to ordinary pure PTFE vascular prostheses - a randomised clinical controlled multi-centre trial.	To compare 1-year potencies' of heparin-bonded PTFE [(Hb-PTFE) (Propaten())] grafts with those of ordinary polytetraflouroethylene (PTFE) grafts in a blinded, randomised, clinically controlled, multi-centre study.
Evolution and current applications of the Cabrol procedure and its modifications.	Operations on the proximal aorta for aneurysms and dissections almost invariably involve the use of an aortic conduit. The optimal method for safe and effective conduit to the coronary anastomosis has been a matter for debate. Although the modified Bentall procedure with use of ostial aortic "buttons" may provide superior results and currently constitutes the standard of care for aortic root reconstruction, anatomic difficulties such as the closeness of the ostia to the aortic annulus, extreme aortic dilatation/calcification, and reoperations, may hinder the safe and tension-free conduit to the coronary anastomosis. In this technical review we examine the evolution of the Cabrol technique and its modifications, as well as its current indications and related outcomes.
1.9m diode laser assisted vascular microanastomoses: Experience in 40 clinical procedures.	Since the initial work of Jacobson and Suarez in 1960, microsurgery has evolved greatly. In 2009, we reported our clinical experience with 1.9m diode laser-assisted vascular microanastomoses (LAMA) for free flap reconstruction. In this report, the ongoing study is now expanded to include 11 additional procedures which were analyzed prospectively with a focus on the duration of the LAMA technique.
Impact of the learning curve for endoscopic vein harvest on conduit quality and early graft patency.	Recent studies have suggested that endoscopic vein harvest (EVH) compromises graft patency. To test whether the learning curve for EVH alters conduit integrity owing to increased trauma compared with an open harvest, we analyzed the quality and early patency of conduits procured by technicians with varying EVH experience.
Hybrid one-stage approach to extensive atherosclerotic aneurysm of thoracoabdominal aorta.	We report a 62-year-old man with an atherosclerotic Crawford type II aneurysm involving both common iliac arteries who underwent surgical revascularization of the visceral vessels and renal arteries from the ascending aorta and subsequent endovascular aneurysmal exclusion. Computed tomography imaging at 2 years showed complete exclusion of the aneurysm throughout the thoracoabdominal aorta, confirming the successful antegrade revascularization of visceral vessels and renal arteries. A hybrid approach to thoracoabdominal aneurysms using antegrade visceral and renal revascularization from the ascending aorta before endovascular repair is technically feasible and might constitute an attractive alternative to conventional surgical treatment.
Self-covered technique for a varix on a saphenous vein graft.	We describe a simple technique for eliminating a varix on a saphenous vein graft (SVG). The SVG with varix is passed through a short section of the saphenous vein, and the varix is covered by the short cylinder of the vein. Both parts are fixed by arterial pressure, which expands the SVG. This technique was used in two SVGs in 2 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. The grafts were investigated by angiography 1 year after the surgery, and the patency without varix was confirmed. This simple method is feasible to repair a varix of the SVG.
Case of combined thenar and hypothenar hammer syndrome: case report and brief review of the literature.	Acute or chronic arterial thrombose due to repetitive blunt trauma to the palm of the hand is a rare occupational vascular disease. In most of the cases it affects the ulnar artery and its superficial palmar branch. Repetitive crush is pathogenic and the unique anatomy of the superficial branch of the ulnar artery lying next to the hook of hamate is causative. In rare cases it may affect the superficial palmar branch of the radial artery, called thenar hammer syndrome. The combination of both is an absolute rarity. Both syndromes are occupational diseases in workers using the hand as a hammer. Patients typically present with Raynaud phenomenon or complain about ischemic pain, cold intolerance, or cyanosis. The gold standard in diagnosis is the angiography. Surgical or conservative treatment can be performed successfully. We present a case of combined thenar and hypothenar hammer and a brief review of the literature.
Arterial stiffness in patients with systemic sclerosis]	To study arterial stiffness (AS) in patients with systemic sclerosis (SS).
Bilateral internal thoracic artery in situ versus y-composite graftings: five-year angiographic patency and long-term clinical outcomes.	We compared 5-year graft patency rates and long-term clinical outcomes after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB) using bilateral internal thoracic arteries (ITAs) as in situ grafts with those using bilateral ITAs as a Y-composite graft.
Comparison of a standard and a high-concentration contrast medium protocol for MDCT angiography of the lower limb arteries.	To prospectively compare a compact bolus (CB) injection protocol using high-iodine concentration contrast medium with a standard bolus (SB) injection protocol at equi-iodine doses for run-off computed tomographic angiography (CTA).
Impact of peptide micropatterning on endothelial cell actin remodeling for cell alignment under shear stress.	HSVEC behavior under physiological shear stress in vitro is investigated on PET surfaces micropatterned with both RGDS and WQPPRARI peptides. This technique allows (i) creating geometries on surface to guide cell orientation under shear stress and (ii) controlling surface chemical composition in order to modulate cell behavior. Under shear stress, endothelial cells adhere on patterned PET surfaces and present a more rapid orientation in flow direction in comparison to cells cultured on homogeneous surfaces. Micropatterned surfaces presenting a large surface area ratio of RGDS/WQPPRARI peptides induce fibrillar adhesion, while surfaces presenting an equal RGDS/WQPPRARI peptides surface area ratio preferentially induce focal adhesion.
Value of duplex ultrasound assistance for thromboaspiration and dilation of thrombosed native arterio-venous fistulae.	To evaluate the value of duplex ultrasound assistance during thromboaspiration of thrombosed arteriovenous fistulae for haemodialysis.
Cutting-balloon angioplasty versus balloon angioplasty as treatment for short atherosclerotic lesions in the superficial femoral artery: randomized controlled trial.	To evaluate the treatments of a short-segment atherosclerotic stenosis in the superficial femoral arteries with the cutting balloon angioplasty (CBA) versus conventional balloon angioplasty [percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA)] in a randomized controlled trial.
Do blood pressure levels and other patient characteristics influence native fistula patency?	Arteriovenous fistulas (AVFs) play an important role in access for hemodialysis, yet premature thrombosis is a challenge. This study identifies factors influencing primary patency in a series of AVF creations. Postoperative systolic blood pressure (BP) was of principal interest; demographical information, comorbidities, smoking status, warfarin, aspirin, clopidogrel, and statins were considered. A retrospective review of AVF creations performed by one surgeon between January 2008 and September 2010 was conducted. Fistula patency was denoted by a bruit and measured at 3 weeks and 12 months after surgery. One hundred and fifty-one AVF creations were studied; 134 fistulas (88.7%) were patent at 3 weeks and 85 (56.3%) at 12 months. The odds ratio (OR) for thrombosis at 12 months was 0.16 (95% CI: 0.04, 0.62; p = 0.008) among patients with a postoperative systolic BP of 120-139 mmHg compared with those with a BP of  119 mmHg. Patients taking warfarin yielded an OR of 5.71 at 3 weeks (95% CI: 1.20, 27.11; p = 0.028), and 3.33 at 12 months (95% CI: 1.01, 10.99; p = 0.048). No other variables were statistically significant. Patients with postoperative systolic BP of 120-139 mmHg showed a reduction in fistula thromboses compared with patients with a systolic BP of  119 mmHg. Patients on warfarin were less likely to maintain a patent fistula.
A comparison between the HeRO graft and conventional arteriovenous grafts in hemodialysis patients.	Venous stenosis and occlusion are a major cause of vascular access dysfunction and failure. The HeRO Graft bypasses occlusion and traverses stenosis with outflow directly into the central venous circulation. A randomized, multicenter study was conducted to evaluate the efficacy and safety of the HeRO Graft relative to conventional AV grafts. The design was to enroll 143 patients in a 2:1 randomization ratio between HeRO and conventional AV control groups. Data on 72 subjects (52 HeRO Graft and 20 AV graft controls) were obtained. The HeRO Graft and control cohorts were comparable in baseline characteristics. Adequacy of dialysis, bacteremia rates, and adverse events were consistent between groups. Twelve month Kaplan-Meier estimates for primary and secondary patency rates were 34.8% and 67.6% in the HeRO Graft cohort, and 30.6% and 58.4% in the control cohort. There was no statistical difference in terms of patency between groups. The rates of intervention were 2.2/year for HeRO Graft and 1.6/year for the control (p = 0.100). Median days to loss of secondary patency was 238 for HeRO Graft versus 102 for the control (p = 0.032). The HeRO Graft appears to provide similar patency, adequacy of dialysis, and bacteremia rates to those of conventional AV grafts.
Reinforced aneurysmorrhaphy for true aneurysmal haemodialysis vascular access.	In 2008, a new technique of reinforced aneurysmorrhaphy with a polyester mesh tube for salvaging true aneurysmal arteriovenous (AV) haemodialysis access was described by us. In this study, the long-term patency and complication rates associated with this procedure were analysed, and the effect of reinforced aneurysmorrhaphy on high-flow vascular access was assessed.
Duplex surveillance after endovascular revascularisation for critical limb ischaemia.	Despite the popularity of endovascular therapy (EVT) for critical limb ischaemia (CLI), there are few studies investigating the efficacy of duplex ultrasound (DUS) surveillance after endovascular interventions. The aim of this study was to evaluate DUS surveillance after EVT for CLI.
Reconstruction of small diameter arteries using decellularized vascular scaffolds.	Although artificial vessels are available for large diameter arteries, there are no artificial vessels for small diameter arteries of < 4 mm. We created a decellularized vascular scaffold (length, 10 mm; outer diameter, 1.5 mm; inner diameter, 1.3 mm) from rat abdominal arteries. We measured the biomechanical characteristics of the scaffolds, implanted them to defects made in rat carotid arteries, and evaluated their patency and the endothelial cell linings. Silastic grafts were implanted as controls. The decellularized scaffolds demonstrated similar mechanical characteristics to normal arteries. All of the control grafts were occluded. Fibroblast-like cells were discovered in the thrombus, and fibrous organization was apparent. In contrast, patency of the grafts in 10 of 12 animals was observed 4 weeks after implantation. The internal cavity of the patent scaffold was completely lined by endotheliallike cells. Thus, the possibility of small artery reconstruction using decellularized scaffolds was demonstrated. 
Ultrasonic characterization of the saphenous vein.	The most frequently used conduit for infrainguinal or coronary artery bypass is the saphenous vein, and this report describes the ultrasonic evaluation of anatomic variations in over 1400 limbs. The thigh portion of the greater saphenous vein consisted of a single venous conduit in 67% of the limbs, a complete double system in 8%, a branching double system in 18% and a closed loop double system in 7%. In 92% of the cases, the vein was in medial position, with the remaining 8% positioned laterally. In the calf, a single vein was observed in 65% of the limbs with the remainder demonstrating a double venous system. The vein was positioned anteriorly in 85% of the limbs. The remaining 15% were positioned posteriorly, with 7% of these being a single dominant vein. Proper knowledge of saphenous vein anatomy is vital to the surgeon preparing to use this vein as a bypass conduit and can aid in its preoperative assessment.
Recanalization of occluded superficial femoral arteries using the rotational transluminal angioplasty catheter system (ROTACS).	A total of 85 occluded superficial femoral arteries were treated using the rotational transluminal angioplasty catheter system (ROTACS). The mean length of the occlusions was 7cm; 76% were uncalcified or only slightly calcified whereas 24% were calcified or highly calcified. The mean preoperative ankle:brachial index was 0.51. Primary success was achieved in 62 of 85 cases (73%). The mean length of reperfused occlusions was 6.2 cm: 26% of these lesions were calcified. The mean ankle:brachial index was 0.91. There were 23 primary failures (27%): reperfusion was impossible in 11 cases (including one complicated by perforation) and there were eight dissections, three cases where residual stenosis exceeded 50%, and one other unspecified failure. The mean length of these occlusions was 10.5 cm; 17% were calcified. Two patients developed a distal embolus and one died 10 days after reperfusion. The probability of primary patency of a reperfused artery was 44% at 1 year. Forty-two of the 62 patients who achieved primary success remained symptom free; the mean length of the original occlusion was 4.5 cm. Fifteen patients developed a new area of stenosis whereas five others exhibited new occlusion after a mean interval of 6 months. The mean length of these reperfused arteries was 9 cm. The probability of secondary patency at 1 year was 58%. Arterial calcification did not appear to influence the feasibility of reperfusion using the catheter. The main factor determining successful reperfusion was the length of the occlusal defect (P < 0.05). Reperfusion using the ROTACS did not improve the feasibility of reperfusion by conventional transluminal angioplasty.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Unilateral vascular reconstruction for iliac obstructive disease.	Controversy exists regarding the extent of vascular reconstructive surgery in the presence of unilateral symptomatic iliac obstructive disease. This study reviews the results of unilateral iliac reconstruction, with special emphasis on the need for consecutive contralateral intervention.
Arterial revascularization with the right gastroepiploic artery and internal mammary arteries in 300 patients.	From September 1989 to September 1992, the right gastroepiploic artery in combination with one or both internal mammary arteries was used as a graft in 300 patients who underwent coronary artery bypass grafting. The gastroepiploic artery was the primary choice in preference to the saphenous vein. The study comprised 263 men and 37 women, ranging in age from 31 to 77 years (median age 59 years). Thirty-nine patients (13%) underwent previous bypass procedures with autologous vein grafts. In 17 patients (5.7%) the gastroepiploic artery was used as a single graft. In 150 patients (50%) the gastroepiploic artery in conjunction with one internal mammary artery was used (in 6 patients combined with a vein graft). In 133 patients (44.3%) the gastroepiploic artery was used with both internal mammary arteries. Revascularization in nine patients (3%) was combined with another cardiac procedure; three aortic valve replacements, two mitral valve repairs, and four resections of a left ventricular aneurysm. Ten patients died in the hospital (3.3%; 70% confidence limits 2.3% to 4.8%); two of these patients had an infarction in the area revascularized by the gastroepiploic artery. At late follow-up, 0.5 to 39 months (mean 14 months) after the operation, we found no mortality. One patient with an occluded gastroepiploic artery graft underwent reoperation with the use of the right internal mammary artery. One patient underwent percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty of the right coronary artery after occlusion of the gastroepiploic artery. Elective recatheterization was done in 88 patients 1 to 25 months after operation (mean 10 months). Graft patency in gastroepiploic artery grafts increased steadily from 77% in the first semester of the study to 95% in the fourth semester and then equaled the patency of the internal mammary artery grafts (97%), which was almost constant during the whole period. We conclude that patency of the gastroepiploic artery was initially related to a "learning curve" but eventually equaled that of the internal mammary artery grafts. Furthermore, the gastroepiploic artery may well be the graft of choice in conjunction with the internal mammary arteries.
Aortoiliac and aortofemoral reconstruction of obstructive disease.	This retrospective study evaluates our strategy to limit prosthetic reconstructions for aortoiliac obstructive disease to the diseased segments in 518 patients. There were 363 (70%) reconstructions without femoral anastomotic sites (FEM-0), 107 (21%) reconstructions with one femoral anastomotic site (FEM-1), and 48 (9%) aortobifemoral reconstructions (FEM-2). The ischemic symptoms and the extent of obstructions were significantly more severe in the FEM-1 and FEM-2 groups than in the FEM-0 group. Early operative results were comparable in all three groups. The difference in outcome became apparent when the long-term results were considered. Long-term follow-up continued for up to 20 years after the operation. Primary and secondary patency rates were significantly higher in the FEM-0 group (9% and 4% recurrent obstructions per 5 years, respectively) than in the FEM-1 and FEM-2 groups (both 14% and 10%, respectively), which was explained by patient selection. Late additional surgery was performed after aortoiliac procedures in most cases for recurrent aortoiliac obstruction and after aortofemoral procedures in most cases for false aneurysms. The risk of late additional operations during long-term follow-up were significantly lower in the FEM-0 group than in the FEM-1 and FEM-2 groups. These results support our strategy to tailor prosthetic reconstructive surgery to the individual status of the aortoiliac arteries.
Early exercise testing after treatment with thrombolytic drugs for acute myocardial infarction: importance of reciprocal ST segment depression.	To investigate the clinical importance of reciprocal ST depression induced by exercise testing early after acute myocardial infarction in patients treated with thrombolysis.
Subintimal angioplasty of femoropopliteal artery occlusions: the long-term results.	The technique of subintimal angioplasty has been attempted on 200 consecutive femoropopliteal artery occlusions of median (range) length 11 (2-37) cm. The principle of the technique is to traverse the occlusion in the subintimal plane and recanalise by inflating the angioplasty balloon within the subintimal space. The technical success rate was 159/200 (80%) and was not significantly different for occlusions < 10 cm (81%, n = 73), 11-20 cm (83%, n = 63) or > 20 cm (68%, n = 23), p = 0.20. There were no deaths nor limb loss resulting from the procedure. The median (range) ankle-brachial pressure index increased from 0.61 (0.21-1.0) preangioplasty to 0.90 (0.26-1.50) postangioplasty. The actuarial haemodynamic patencies of technically successful procedures at 12 and 36 months were 71% and 58% respectively, the symptomatic patencies were 73% and 61%. A multiple regression analysis showed that smoking multiplied the risk of reocclusion by 2.70 (p < 0.001), each additional run-off vessel reduced the risk by 0.54 (p < 0.001) and the risk increased by 1.73 (p = 0.020) for every 10 cm of occlusion length. In conclusion, the technical success rate (80%) of subintimal angioplasty for femoropopliteal occlusions is unrelated to occlusion length and for all procedures, including technical failures, cumulative symptomatic and haemodynamic patencies of 46 and 48% can be achieved at 3 years. The factors influencing long-term patency were smoking, the number of calf run-off vessels and occlusion length.
A new and simple technique to achieve a confluent and flow resistant endothelium on vascular ePTFE-grafts using human serum.	Confluent endothelialisation of vascular grafts in vitro before implantation has been suggested as a way to improve patency. With the aim of creating a confluent endothelium or expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (ePTFE) vascular grafts, using a minimum of allo- or xenogenic material, we have investigated the use of human serum for endothelial cell (EC) growth and adhesion to the grafts. Loss of fibronectin from the serum was measured before and after coating. After serum- or collagen I-precoating, the grafts were seeded with cultured adult human endothelial cells from the great saphenous vein and then kept under rotational culture conditions for 2 days. To evaluate the endothelial resistance to detachment the grafts were mounted in parallel to a heart-lung machine, delivering a pulsatile flow of human blood for 1 hour. Evaluation was performed using scanning electron microscopy (SEM). By simply pressing serum through the graft wall, fibronectin corresponding to 19 micrograms/cm2 graft surface was consumed. It was possible to achieve a confluent endothelium on both serum- and collagen I-precoated grafts (n = 8). After being subjected to blood flow, SEM revealed a complete endothelial lining of the grafts (n = 12) except for two serum-precoated grafts which showed < or = 10% and between 10 and 20% denuded areas, and one collagen-coated graft that showed < or = 10% of denuded area. This method provides a way to achieve a confluent and flow resistant endothelial lining on ePTFE vascular grafts.
Lumen enlargement in coronary angioplasty: qualitative and quantitative analysis of vascular mechanisms with intravascular ultrasound]	The purpose of this study was to determine the mechanisms by which balloon angioplasty increases luminal patency. Therefore serial examinations with intravascular ultrasound before and after coronary balloon angioplasty were performed. Forty consecutive patients (7 female, 33 male, aged 58 +/- 9 years) with 49 dilated lesions were examined with a 3.5 F, 20 MHz mechanical intravascular ultrasound imaging system before and immediately after coronary balloon angioplasty. Quantitative measurements of lumen area, total arterial area, plaque area and arterial stretch were performed in the dilated vessel segments. Plaque reduction accounted for 65% and vessel wall stretch for 35% of the total increase in luminal patency after angioplasty. In 34/49 (69%) lesions plaque reduction and in 15/49 (31%) arterial stretch contributed most (> 50%) of the overall increase in luminal area post angioplasty. in lesions with an ultrasound area stenosis before PTCA larger than the mean value of the group (> or = 87%) plaque reduction contributed a significantly higher percentage to luminal gain as compared to lesions with an area stenosis < 87% (76.5 +/- 25.0 vs 52.7 +/- 29.9, p < 0.05). Conversely, PTCA resulted in a significantly greater amount of vessel walls stretch in lesions with an area stenosis < 87% (47.3 +/- 29.9 vs. 24.4 +/- 24.2; p < 0.05). In lesions with localized dissections (32/49 (65%)) after PTCA as compared to lesions without dissection a significantly greater relative reduction of stenosis (24% +/- 13% vs. 19% +/- 7%, p < 0.05) was found. Plaque reduction and to a lesser extent vessel wall stretch constitute the principal mechanisms responsible for increased luminal patency after balloon angioplasty. The amount of plaque reduction and vessel wall stretch on the overall luminal gain after PTCA is dependent on the size of area stenosis. The presence of localized dissections after angioplasty correlates favorably with a better result.
Effect of primary balloon expandable renal artery stents on long-term patency, renal function, and blood pressure in hypertensive and renal insufficient patients with renal artery stenosis.	Stents were deployed in 83 renal artery lesions of 63 subjects. All were hypertensive and 29 were renal insufficient (RI). Technical success was 99%. Long-term (11.3 +/- 3.8 months) patency was evaluated with ultrasound in 69 lesions (51 ostial). Technical success and long-term patency rates were not significantly different between ostial and non-ostial lesions. Ten lesions restenosed (14%). At most recent follow-up (10.2 +/- 4.5 months) hypertensive subjects were classified as cured (3.7%), improved (35.2%), unchanged (53.7%), or worse (7.4%). Systolic pressure was significantly improved throughout follow-up but diastolic pressure was only significantly lower at discharge. Based on serum creatinine, Rl subjects were classified as improved (36%), unchanged (46%), or worse (18%). Complications included transfusion (10), renal artery perforation (3), and renal failure (8). Eight transfused subjects also had retroperitoneal bleeds. Rl subjects were more likely to develop acute renal failure. Subjects who died (9) were more likely to have Rl at baseline and to suffer renal artery perforation during the procedure. Patient risk factors and procedural technique contributed to complications in this study, but for most patients stenting yielded excellent technical success and long-term patency for ostial and non-ostial lesions. The effect on blood pressure and renal function was favorable.
Predischarge duplex imaging of infrainguinal vein grafts does not predict the development of stenoses.	The aim of this study was to determine whether predischarge duplex imaging of an infrainguinal vein graft could predict the subsequent development of graft stenosis.
Arterial reconstruction in the ischemic hand and wrist: effects on microvascular physiology and health-related quality of life.	Patients were evaluated before and after arterial reconstruction surgery (1) to define the physiology of the digital microcirculation in chronic subcritical ischemia, (2) to demonstrate the short-term effects of successful arterial reconstruction on microvascular flow, and (3) to document the effects of surgery on symptoms, function, and health-related quality of life. Arterial insufficiency was the result of a proximal reconstructible occlusive lesion, 1 or more distal unreconstructible occlusions, and secondary reactive vasospasm. Microvascular physiology was evaluated by monitoring digital temperatures, microvascular perfusion (laser Doppler fluxmetry) and perfusion patterns (laser Doppler perfusion patterns (laser Doppler perfusion imaging). Following successful vascular reconstruction, digital temperatures and microvascular perfusion improved significantly, approaching control levels. Although cold sensitivity was unchanged, symptoms decreased and upper extremity function and health-related quality of life improved after successful proximal reconstruction in patients with 2-level arterial occlusion.
Renal artery stenosis: changes in intrarenal Doppler waveform following percutaneous transluminal angioplasty.	To examine the extent of the changes in the intrarenal spectral waveform patterns after percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and whether there is a correlation with the angiographic and clinical results.
Single and tandem stents in sheep iliac arteries: is there a difference in patency?	To compare patency and neointima formation of single and tandem arterial stents.
