Experimental study of the effect of intraportal prostaglandin E1 on hepatic blood flow during reperfusion after ischaemia and hepatectomy.	Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) has protective effects experimentally and clinically in individual models of hepatic ischaemia-reperfusion injury and of partial hepatectomy. The present study investigated the effects of intraportal administration of PGE1 on hepatic blood flow, systemic arterial pressure and long-term animal survival after 60 min of total liver ischaemia followed by 70 per cent partial hepatectomy in rats.
Reduction in vascular responsiveness to adrenomedullin during sepsis.	Although sepsis is characterized by an early, hyperdynamic phase followed by a late, hypodynamic phase, the mechanism responsible for the transition from the hyperdynamic to the hypodynamic state remains unknown. Since recent studies have shown that adrenomedullin (ADM), a novel potent vasodilatory peptide, is upregulated during sepsis, the aim of this study was to determine whether the reduced vascular responsiveness to ADM is associated with the transition from the hyperdynamic phase to the hypodynamic phase of sepsis.
Superior protection in orthotopic rat lung transplantation with cyclic adenosine monophosphate and nitroglycerin-containing preservation solution.	Primary lung graft failure is common, and current lung preservation strategies are suboptimal. Because the decline in lung levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate and cyclic guanosine monophosphate during preservation could enhance adhesiveness of endothelial cells for leukocytes as well as increase vascular permeability and vasoconstriction, we hypothesized that buttressing these levels by means of a preservation solution would significantly improve lung preservation.
Additive effects of late preconditioning produced by monophosphoryl lipid A and the early preconditioning mediated by adenosine receptors and KATP channel.	The cardioprotective effect of preconditioning can be exerted within 1 to 2 hours after initial ischemia, termed classical or early preconditioning, or can reappear 24 hours later as second window or late preconditioning. The objective of this study was to study the interaction between late and early preconditioning and to determine the potential underlying mechanism.
Halothane attenuates nitroglycerin-induced vasodilation and a decrease in intracellular Ca2+ in the rat thoracic aorta.	Although halothane inhibits endothelium-mediated vasorelaxation, the sites of inhibition remain controversial. Because the cytosolic concentration of Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) has crucial roles for tension development, we examined the effects of halothane on nitroglycerin-induced vasorelaxation from the standpoint of [Ca2+]i. Isolated spiral strips of rat thoracic aorta without endothelium were suspended for isometric tension recordings in a physiologic salt solution. Muscle contraction was evoked with 10(-8) M norepinephrine, followed by endothelium-independent vasorelaxation with nitroglycerin 10(-7) and 10(-6) M. The effects of halothane 1.5% and 3% on nitroglycerin-induced vasorelaxation were evaluated along with the concomitant measurement of [Ca2+]i using fura-2-Ca2+ fluorescence. In other muscle strips, incremental doses of norepinephrine were administered during halothane exposure to induce contractions comparable to those without halothane. Nitroglycerin dose-dependently reduced norepinephrine-induced muscle contractions, but the decrease in [Ca2+]i reached a plateau at 10(-7) M, which indicates that nitroglycerin induced [Ca2+]i-dependent and [Ca2+]i-independent vasorelaxation. Both concentrations of halothane inhibited nitroglycerin-induced decreases in muscle tension and [Ca2+]i, not only when the same dose of norepinephrine was used for contraction during halothane exposure, but also at incremental doses of norepinephrine. In conclusion, halothane inhibits nitroglycerin-induced vasorelaxation partly by suppressing Ca2+ changes in the smooth muscle.
The thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone (BRL-49653) lowers blood pressure and protects against impairment of endothelial function in Zucker fatty rats.	Human obesity is associated with insulin resistance, hyperinsulinemia, and a predisposition to hypertension and vascular disease, the origin of which may lie in impairment of endothelial function. We tested the effects of the thiazolidinedione rosiglitazone on blood pressure and endothelial function in insulin-resistant fatty Zucker rats, which display hypertension and abnormal endothelial cell function. We studied fatty Zucker rats given rosiglitazone maleate (50 micromol/kg diet; n = 8) for 9-12 weeks (treated fatty), untreated fatty rats (n = 8), and lean rats (n = 8) given diet alone. At the end of the study, systolic blood pressure was significantly higher in untreated fatty (147 +/- 5 mmHg) than in lean rats (125 +/- 2 mmHg; P < 0.05), but rosiglitazone treatment prevented the development of hypertension in fatty rats (123 +/- 1 mmHg). Fasting hyperinsulinemia in untreated fatty rats (28.7 +/- 6.0 ng/ml) was significantly lowered by rosiglitazone (7.0 +/- 1.4 ng/ml; P < 0.05 vs. untreated fatty), but remained significantly higher than the levels seen in lean rats (1.5 +/- 0.4 ng/ml; P < 0.01). Mesenteric arteries were studied in a myograph. Maximal acetylcholine chloride (1.1 micromol/l)-induced relaxation of norepinephrine hydrochloride (NE)-induced constriction was impaired in untreated fatty (62.4 +/- 3.4%) vs. lean (74.3 +/- 3.5%; P = 0.01) rats; this defect was partially prevented by rosiglitazone (66.5 +/- 3.0%; P = 0.01 vs. untreated fatty). Insulin (50 mU/l) significantly attenuated the contractile response to NE in lean rats (14.7 +/- 3.3%; P = 0.02); this vasodilator effect of insulin was absent in untreated fatty rats at concentrations of 50-5,000 mU/l, but was partially restored by rosiglitazone (9.7 +/- 2.5% attenuation; P = 0.02 vs. no insulin). Thus, rosiglitazone prevents the development of hypertension and partially protects against impaired endothelial function associated with insulin resistance. These latter effects may contribute to the drug's antihypertensive properties.
Trandolapril treatment at low dose improves mechanical and functional properties in perfused coronary arteries of spontaneously hypertensive rat.	The ex-vivo effects of a 1-month treatment period with trandolapril at a low dose (0.3 mg/kg/day) were assessed on the mechanical and functional alterations observed in SHR coronary arteries. The in-vitro intrinsic elastic properties of the wall in treated SHR coronary arteries were determined in comparison to those of SHR rats. In preconstricted preparations, agonist- and flow-induced dilatations were investigated in arteries of both groups. Arterial segments were cannulated at both ends using an arteriograph system. Internal diameter and wall thickness were continuously monitored while intraluminal pressure and flow were controlled. Wall thickness was reduced in arteries of treated rats compared to those in control SHR (mm): 52 +/- 2 vs. 41 +/- 2, P < 0.001, respectively. Arterial stiffness, expressed by the incremental elastic modulus-stress relationship, was significantly lower in arteries of treated compared to control SHRs. In preconstricted preparations, dilatations induced by bradykinin were significantly greater in treated SHR compared to control SHR arteries whereas dilatations induced by acetylcholine were slightly but not significantly increased. On the other hand, starting flow at the plateau of 5-HT-induced constriction led to dilatations which were not significantly different in the treated compared to the control group. The maximal dilatation induced by flow in arteries of treated rats was obtained for the same value of shear stress compared to that determined in preparations of control SHRs: (dyn/cm2) 63 +/- 3 vs. 61 +/- 2, respectively, NS. These results show that together with hypertrophy, the abnormal mechanical properties observed in the coronary arterial wall of SHR were improved by a low dose of trandolapril treatment. However, differential effects of trandolapril treatment were observed on agonist and flow-induced dilatations. Although flow-induced dilatation seemed to remain unaffected, acetylcholine-induced dilatation was slightly improved and bradykinin-induced dilatation was markedly increased by trandolapril treatment.
Effects of K(+)-channel blockers on A1-adenosine receptor-mediated negative inotropy and chronotropy of guinea-pig isolated left and right atria.	Adenosine has previously been shown to stimulate K(+)-efflux and to block L-type calcium channels in atrial myocytes. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the contribution of K(+)-channels in the development of the negative inotropic and chronotropic responses to adenosine agonists in guinea-pig left and right atria, respectively. Tetraethylammonium (TEA) potentiated the negative inotropic and chronotropic responses to R-(-)-N6-(2-phenyl-isopropyl)-adenosine (R-PIA), seen as leftward shifts of the concentration-response curves. Glibenclamide had no effect on the negative inotropic response to R-PIA but increased the rate of onset of the negative chronotropic response in right atria. 4-Aminopyridine (4-AP, 10 mM), potentiated the left atrial inotropic responses to R-PIA, seen as a leftward shift of the concentration-response curve, but slowed the speed of onset of the response to a single concentration (10(-6) M) of R-PIA. This reduction in speed of onset of the response can explain the differences in effects of 4-AP on concentration-response curves reported here and previously. In the right atria, 4-AP (10 mM) inhibited the negative chronotropic responses to R-PIA, seen as a rightward shift of the concentration-response curve and reduction of the maximum response. 4-AP also slowed the onset of the right atrial rate response to R-PIA. These results support the theory that K(+)-efflux plays only a minor role in the negative inotropic responses of guinea-pig left atria to R-PIA. This apparently controls the speed of onset of the response. The negative chronotropic response of guinea-pig right atria to R-PIA appears to be much more dependent upon K(+)-efflux than for the negative inotropic response of the left atria.
Neurovascular relationships in hippocampal slices: physiological and anatomical studies of mechanisms underlying flow-metabolism coupling in intraparenchymal microvessels.	Experiments were carried out to investigate the functional and anatomical relationships between neuronal elements and cerebral microvessels in 300-350-microm thick coronal hippocampal slices maintained at 33-35 degrees C, obtained from 150-200 g male Wistar rats. Cerebral arterioles (9-22 microm in diameter) were visualized in situ and pre-constricted by 22.0+/-6.6% by the addition of the thromboxane A2 agonist U46619 (75 nM), to the bathing medium. The glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (0.01-1 mM) produced a dose-related increase in luminal diameter of pre-constricted vessels. In the presence of 4 microM haemoglobin to scavenge nitric oxide from the extravascular environment of the slice, the increase in diameter evoked by 0.1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate was significantly reduced from 17.5+/-4.6% to 4.8+/-1.7% indicating that N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced vasodilatation of cerebral microvessels is mediated via a mechanism which involves neuronally-derived nitric oxide. In a parallel anatomical study, beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-dependent diaphorase staining was used to reveal the enzyme nitric oxide synthase in vascular endothelium and neurons in slices. A small subpopulation (< 11 cells per slice) of darkly-stained multipolar neurons, 21-32 microm in diameter was observed to give rise to a dense network of fine diaphorase-reactive nerve fibres that ramified throughout the whole of the hippocampus and appeared to come into close apposition with arterioles. Morphometric analysis of the relationship between cerebral microvessels, beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, reduced form-dependent diaphorase-reactive neuronal elements and individual pyramidal layer neurons, identified by filling with biocytin, revealed that for a given point on a pyramidal layer neuron, the proximity of the nearest diaphorase-reactive nerve fibre was less than 10 microm, whilst the distance to the nearest arteriole (the smallest functional unit for controlling blood flow) was in excess of 70 microm. Such a distance would probably preclude diffusion of vasoactive metabolites in effective concentrations from the area of increased neuronal activity. We therefore propose that the diaphorase-reactive nerve network constitutes the functional link. It is possible that during periods of increased neuronal activity, spillover of glutamate from synapses may activate the diaphorase-reactive network. Release of nitric oxide from the network in the vicinity of local cerebral arterioles may then produce relaxation of the vascular smooth muscle, enabling increased blood flow into the capillary network supplying the region of increased metabolic activity. This study has shown that the process whereby increases in neuronal activity elicit a local change in cerebral blood flow remains functionally intact in hippocampal slice preparations. Nitric oxide of neuronal origin appears to be involved in mediating the coupling between neurons and cerebral arterioles. Stereological analysis of the relationship between neuronal and vascular elements within hippocampal slices suggested that a small subpopulation of nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons which give rise to a diffuse network of fine nitric oxide synthase-containing nerve fibres that lie in close apposition to cerebral arterioles may provide the anatomical substrate for coupling of blood flow to metabolism.
Vasomotor responses of coronary stenoses to acetylcholine and their relation to serum lipid levels in stable angina pectoris.	The effects of acetylcholine administration on coronary stenoses in relation to serum lipids level were evaluated in 18 patients (15 men, 3 women) with coronary artery disease and stable angina. Intracoronary acetylcholine was infused in concentrations 10(-7), 10(-6), 10(-5) M, followed by intracoronary bolus administration of isosorbide dinitrate. Computerized angiography was used to assess the changes in the diameter of stenoses and of proximal and distal segments. During acetylcholine infusion, at concentrations between 10(-7) to 10(-5) M, there was a significant (p <0.01) dose-dependent constriction of proximal and distal segments and of stenoses reversed by isosorbide dinitrate. There was no correlation between the serum total cholesterol level and the responses of proximal and distal segments to acetylcholine or nitrate. A correlation (p <0.05) was found between the serum total cholesterol level and the response of stenoses to acetylcholine, but there was no correlation with the response to isosorbide dinitrate. In conclusion, in patients with stable angina current serum total cholesterol level correlates with the vasomotor response of coronary stenoses to intracoronary acetylcholine. These findings are consistent with a direct effect of cholesterol, increasing basal coronary vasomotor tone and increasing the stimulated vasoconstrictor response of stenoses.
Network vascular communication initiated by increases in tissue adenosine.	Vascular communication of vasomotor signals appears to coordinate the distribution of tissue blood flow. This study was performed to determine whether elevated tissue concentrations of adenosine or nitric oxide could induce vascular communicating signals. To test this, remote arteriolar responses were tested when drugs were applied either directly to an arteriole ( approximately 20 microm diameter), or into the tissue in a region (with no vessels over 10 microm in diameter) that was 500 microm away from the arteriole and that bore no defined relationship to the flow path of the remote arteriole. In anesthetized hamster cheek pouch (n = 25), or cremaster muscle (n = 10), remote arteriolar responses were measured in response to nitric oxide (NO) donors (10(-5) to 10(-3) M), adenosine (10(-5) to 10(-3) M), or papaverine (10(-5) to 10(-2) M) applied for 40-120 s. Papaverine caused no remote response when applied directly while adenosine and NO donors caused similar, late-onset (10-20 s), dose-dependent, remote responses in both preparations. Remarkably however, only adenosine initiated a consistent remote arteriolar dilation when applied to the tissue site. Thus, increases in tissue adenosine may be critical for vascular communication of metabolic demands without regard to the specific blood flow path.
Nitric oxide-dependent renal vasodilatation is not altered in rat with rHuEpo-induced hypertension.	Recombinant human erythropoietin (rHuEpo) is the treatment of choice in anemia associated with end-stage renal disease. Its major side effect is hypertension, which occurs in 8-30% of uremic patients. The exact mechanism of rHuEpo-induced hypertension has not been fully elucidated, and several possibilities have been proposed, such as a direct vascular effect of the drug with a shift in the balance of constrictor and relaxing endothelial factors (endothelins and nitric oxide (NO)). Recent papers suggested an enhanced rather than reduced activity of endogenous NO system in rats with normal renal function and rHuEpo-induced hypertension. Our study was designed to verify whether, in spite of enhanced activity of the renal NO system, rHuEpo may affect endothelium-dependent (acetylcholine-induced) and/or endothelium-independent (sodium nitroprusside-induced) vasorelaxation and to evaluate basal NO release by the infusion of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) in an isolated and perfused rat kidney model.
Superoxide anion and K+ channels mediate electrical stimulation-induced relaxation in the rat basilar artery.	Electrical field stimulation (a single pulse, 0.2 ms) caused a rapid relaxation of rat basilar artery segments precontracted with different agents, but not with 30 mM KCl. This relaxation was not modified by endothelium removal, 10 microM tetrodotoxin, 1 microM propranolol, 1 microM atropine, 30 microM indomethacin, 10 microM methylene blue, 100 microM N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester or 1 microM cimetidine but it was significantly reduced by 50 and 100 U/ml superoxide dismutase. Charybdotoxin (0.1 and 0.2 microM), a blocker of large-conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels (BK(Ca)), decreased the relaxation elicited by electrical stimulation, whereas it was unaltered by 10 microM glibenclamide or 1 microM apamin, blockers of ATP-sensitive (K(ATP)) or small-conductance K(Ca) channels, respectively. Thapsigargin (0.01 and 0.1 microM), an inhibitor of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase, increased the electrical stimulation-induced relaxation, which was nearly abolished by charybdotoxin. These results show that electrical stimulation induces endothelium-independent and non-neurogenic relaxations in the rat basilar artery. This response appears to involve generation of superoxide anion, increase of cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration and subsequent activation of BK(Ca) channels.
Effect of isosorbide mononitrate on the human optic nerve and choroidal circulations.	To assess the effects of the nitric oxide donor 5-isosorbide mononitrate (ISMO) on blood flow in the optic nerve head (ON flow) and choroid (Ch flow).
Effects of certain cerebral circulation activating drugs on regional cerebral blood flow in rats.	The effects of certain cerebral circulation activating drugs on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in the frontal cortex (FCOR), hippocampus (HPC) and nucleus caudatus (CAD) were investigated using the hydrogen clearance method in rats. All the drugs used in the present study, i.e., ozagrel, ifenprodil, pentoxifylline, cinnarizine and dilazep, caused an increase in rCBF in the FCOR, HPC and CAD. Ozagrel was the most potent in increasing rCBF at the FCOR. Ozagrel, ifenprodil, cinnarizine and dilazep were more effective than pentoxifylline in increasing rCBF at the HPC. On the other hand, all the drugs showed almost the same potency in increasing rCBF at the CAD. These results suggested that measurement of rCBF is useful for estimating the efficacy of cerebral circulation activating drugs.
Hemorheology and vascular endothelial cells]	The vascular endothelium is a biologically active monolayer of cells providing an interface between the blood flow and tissues. Vascular Endothelial Cells (VEC) have two functional states. The endothelium is normally anti-thrombotic and anti-adhesive to ensure blood fluidity. During aggressions, such as atherosclerosis, inflammation states, metabolic diseases (through chemical or mechanical stimuli), VEC can reverse its functions by expressing stored material or by slower involvement of previously are repressed genes. Endothelial cells have three types of anti-thrombotic properties: vaso regulating properties: VEC release vasomotor components, such as endothelin (vasoconstriction), prostacyclin and nitric oxide, (vasodilatation). Endothelial cells also have antithrombotic and hemostatic properties. They express proteoglycans on their surface, including some negative-charge, plasminogen, sulfate glycosaminoglycans (heparan-sulfate), and secrete plasminogen tissular activator (t-PA) and tissular factor inhibitor. One fundamental action of the endothelium in that area is the production and expression of thrombomodulin, a thrombin receptor. This function has a major anticoagulation effect, controlling continual thrombin generation at the sub-endothelium and blood cell interface. Moreover, endothelial cells show anti-adhesion properties. During cardio-vascular diseases, all of these properties may be reversed. Thus the VEC have a determinant role in hemodynamic control through these various metabolic activities, such as control of homeostasis, vascular tone, blood fluidity, coagulating properties, cellular adhesion. Otherwise, many studies have demonstrated that local blood flow conditions have a crucial role on the VEC properties (mechanoactivation and mechanotransduction concept). In conclusion, knowledge of all the properties of the endothelial cells and control of the phenomena which define their functions is a key element in understanding cardiovascular diseases.
Effect of aspirin and ifetroban on skeletal muscle blood flow in patients with congestive heart failure treated with Enalapril. Ifetroban Study Group.	The purpose of this study was to determine the acute and chronic effects of cyclooxygenase inhibition with aspirin and thromboxane A2 receptor blockade with ifetroban on the chronic vasodilating effects of enalapril in the skeletal muscle circulation of patients with heart failure.
Impaired endothelium-dependent relaxation in mesenteric arteries of reduced renal mass hypertensive rats.	Endothelium-dependent relaxation is not fully understood in volume-dependent models of hypertension. This study investigated the relaxation mediated by endothelium-derived nitric oxide (EDNO) and hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) in superior mesenteric arteries from reduced renal mass hypertensive rats, an experimental model for volume-dependent hypertension. Hypertension was induced in male Wistar rats by subtotal nephrectomy and salt-loading (hypertensive group). The control group comprised rats that drank tap water after subtotal nephrectomy. Relaxation of isolated superior mesenteric arterial rings was investigated at the end of the 2-week study. In high K+-precontracted arterial rings, relaxation caused by acetylcholine (ACh) was markedly reduced in the hypertensive group compared with the findings for the control group (34+/-4% vs. 54+/-5% decrease in tension). In both groups, the relaxation was abolished by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase. In phenylephrine-precontracted arterial rings, relaxation caused by ACh was also small in the hypertensive group, while it was large in the control group (49 +/- 5% vs. 96 +/- 2%). Superfusion of L-NAME inhibited most of the relaxation caused by ACh, but the arteries still exhibited relaxation. Apamin, a blocker of Ca-dependent K+ channel, together with L-NAME further inhibited the residual relaxation. The relaxation inhibited by apamin was also reduced in the hypertensive group. We conclude that the relaxation inhibited by L-NAME was mediated by EDNO, while that inhibited by apamin was mediated by EDHF. Endothelium-independent relaxation caused by nitroprusside and diazoxide was normal in the hypertensive group. The relaxation mediated by both EDNO and EDHF was depressed in the arteries of reduced renal mass hypertensive rats as the result of an arterial endothelial abnormality.
Serotonin reuptake inhibitor, fluoxetine, dilates isolated skeletal muscle arterioles. Possible role of altered Ca2+ sensitivity.	1. Inhibitors of serotonin reuptake in the central nervous system, such as fluoxetine, may also affect the function of vascular tissues. Thus, we investigated the effect of fluoxetine on the vasomotor responses of isolated, pressurized arterioles of rat gracilis muscle (98 +/- 4 microns in diameter at 80 mmHg perfusion pressure). 2. We have found that increasing concentrations of fluoxetine dilated arterioles up to 155 +/- 5 microns with an EC50 of 2.5 +/- 0.5 x 10(-6) M. 3. Removal of the endothelium, application of 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, an inhibitor of aminopyridine sensitive K+ channels), or use of glibenclamide (an inhibitor of ATP-sensitive K+ channels) did not affect the vasodilator response to fluoxetine. 4. In the presence of 10(-6), 2 x 10(-6) or 10(-5) M fluoxetine noradrenaline (NA, 10(-9)-10(-5) M) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT, 10(-9)-10(-5)M)-induced constrictions were significantly attenuated resulting in concentration-dependent parallel rightward shifts of their dose-response curves (pA2 = 6.1 +/- 0.1 and 6.9 +/- 0.1, respectively). 5. Increasing concentrations of Ca2+ (10(-4) 3 x 10(-2) M) elicited arteriolar constrictions (up to approximately 30%), which were markedly reduced by 2 x 10(-6)M fluoxetine, whereas 10(-5)M fluoxetine practically abolished these responses. 6. In conclusion, fluoxetine, elicits substantial dilations of isolated skeletal muscle arterioles, a response which is not mediated by 4-AP- and ATP-sensitive K+ channels or endothelium-derived dilator factors. The findings that fluoxetine had a greater inhibitory effect on Ca2+ elicited constrictions than on responses to NA and 5-HT suggest that fluoxetine may inhibit Ca2+ channel(s) or interfere with the signal transduction by Ca2+ in the vascular smooth muscle cells.
Effects of endothelial impairment by saponin on the responses to vasodilators and nitrergic nerve stimulation in isolated canine corpus cavernosum.	1. Responsiveness to EDRF-releasing substances and inhibitory nerve stimulation of canine isolated penile corpus cavernosum with and without saponin treatment were investigated. 2. Histological studies demonstrated that saponin did not detach endothelial cells from underlying tissues, but induced degenerative changes in the endothelial cells selectively. 3. In the cavernous strips contracted with phenylephrine, addition of acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside, ATP and Ca2+ ionophore A23187 induced relaxations, but substance P and bradykinin did not change the muscle tone. 4. Acetylcholine-induced relaxation was significantly attenuated but not abolished by NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG). L-arginine restored the response inhibited by L-NOARG. The L-NOARG resistant relaxation was not influenced by 1H[1,2,4]oxadiazole[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) but was suppressed in the strips contracted with K+. Treatment with saponin abolished the relaxation elicited by acetylcholine and A23187 but did not influence the response to nitroprusside and ATP. The ATP-induced relaxation was attenuated by aminophylline. 5. Transmural electrical stimulation at 2-20 Hz produced endothelium-independent relaxations which were abolished by tetrodotoxin and L-NOARG but unaffected by treatment with saponin. In saponin-treated cavernous strips, the neurogenic relaxation was not affected by acetylcholine, physostigmine, atropine and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) but was abolished by ODQ. 6. It is concluded that acetylcholine-induced relaxations are endothelium-dependent and mediated partly by NO and also by other substances from the endothelium. The endothelium-independent relaxation to ATP is likely to be mediated by P1 purinoceptors. The function of nitrergic nerve does not seem to be prejunctionally modulated by acetylcholine and VIP.
Morphological plasticity and rearrangement of cytoskeletons in pituicytes cultured from adult rat neurohypophysis.	The adult rat neurohypophysis reveals drastic morphological plasticity of neuron-glial organization during chronic physiological stimulation. Pituicytes are modified astrocytes in the neurohypophysis, and shape conversion of them largely contributes to the morphological plasticity. The present study aimed to investigate the receptor-mediated mechanism for shape conversion of the pituicyte morphology, particularly in relation with changes of cytoskeletal organization. The cultured pituicytes from adult rat neurohypophysis were mostly flat amorphous shape in normal salt solution. Histochemical experiments showed that thick bundle of microfilament (stress fibers) and fine fibers of microtubule distributed evenly within the pituicyte. When pituicytes were treated with adenosine (more than 1 microM), isoproterenol (IPR); beta-agonist, more than 10 nM), and dibutyryl cyclic AMP (dBcAMP, 1 mM), the pituicyte morphology changed from flat to stellate shape. Upon treatment with dBcAMP, stress fibers within pituicyte cytoplasm disappeared, and microtubule assembled in the cellular processes and cytoplasm surrounding the nucleus. Pretreatment with colchicine (microtubule-disrupting agent, 25 microM) and orthovanadate (tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor, 1 mM) prevented dBcAMP-induced stellation of the pituicyte morphology. Treatment with sphingosine (protein kinase C inhibitor, 10 microM), W-7 (calmodulin dependent protein kinase inhibitor, 40 microM), ML-9 (myosin light chain kinase inhibitor, 20 microM), and cytochalasinB (CytB; microfilament disrupting agent, 5 microM), induced stellation of the pituicyte morphology. Treatment of endothelin-1 (more than 0.1 nM) and endotheline-3 (more than 0.1 nM) reverted dBcAMP-induced stellation of the pituicyte morphology to original flat one and also reverted arrangement of cytoskeletons of stress fiber and microtubules as seen in control one. The present results reveal that pituicyte shape conversion is mediated via beta-adrenergic, adenosine and endotheline and depend on rearrangement of stress fibers and microtubules. In addition, the mechanism of shape conversion of pituicytes cultured from adult neurohypophysis is quite similar to that of astrocytes cultured from neonatal brains and possibly is useful for understanding morphological plasticity of adult brains.
Ileal and colonic contractions by endothelin-1 in experimentally induced paralytic ileus in rats.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of endothelin-1 on the isolated distal ileum and proximal colon in an experimentally induced ileus in rats. Ileal and colonic contractions by endothelin-1, acetylcholine alone and with endothelin-1 were recorded both in normal and experimentally induced paralytic ileus in rats. In the control group, all the responses to acetylcholine were found to be potentiated significantly when used together with endothelin-1 but in paralytic ileus group, no detectable change was observed in the responses of the amine after administration of acetylcholine together with endothelin-1. This study indicates that endothelin-1 might have an effect on gastrointestinal motility and postoperative paralytic ileus.
Cardioprotective effects of YM934, an ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener, on stunned myocardium in anesthetized dogs.	The effects of YM934 [2-(3,4-dihydro-2,2-dimethyl-6-nitro-2H-1,4-benzoxazin-4-yl) pyridine N-oxide], an adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channel opener, on stunned myocardium were examined. Forty eight anesthetized dogs were subjected to 15 min of left anterior descending (LAD) coronary artery occlusion followed by 3 hours of reperfusion. To elucidate the possible contribution of the cardioprotective property of YM934 to stunned myocardium, a nonhypotensive dose of YM934 was directly injected into the LAD coronary artery before the ischemic insults. Intracoronary artery infusion (i.c.) of YM934 (0.1 microg/kg/min) produced a marked improvement in post-ischemic regional contractile dysfunction. The effects were not associated with improvement of hemodynamics, including regional myocardial blood flow during ischemia, heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure. The anatomic areas at risk expressed as a percentage of the left ventricle and regional myocardial blood flow were not significantly different between groups. The cardioprotective effect of YM934 was completely blocked by pretreatment with an ATP-sensitive potassium channel blocker, glibenclamide (1.0 mg/kg i.v. bolus). These results suggest that YM934 exerts cardioprotective effect on stunned myocardium through opening myocardial ATP-sensitive potassium channels.
Improvement of impaired myocardial vasodilatation due to diffuse coronary atherosclerosis in hypercholesterolemics after lipid-lowering therapy.	Diminished myocardial vasodilatation (MVD) in hypercholesterolemics without overt coronary stenosis has been reported. However, whether the diminished MVD of angiographically normal coronary arteries in hypercholesterolemics can be reversed after lipid-lowering therapy is not known.
Transient vasodilatory effects of adrenomedullin on cerebral parenchymal microvessels in cats.	We studied the effects of adrenomedullin, structural homology of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), on the cerebral parenchymal microvessels in cats by our photoelectric method. Adrenomedullin significantly increased cerebral blood volume (CBV) at 0.5 and 1 min after intracarotid injection (0.01-1 nmol/kg, maximum; +0.71 vol% for 0.1 nmol/kg adrenomedullin). Adrenomedullin antagonist, adrenomedullin22-62 (0.01-10 nmol/kg), caused no significant changes in CBV and mean arterial blood pressure. Preinjection of 10 nmol/kg adrenomedullin22-52 blocked the vasodilatory effect of 0.01 nmol/kg adrenomedullin (P < 0.05). Pretreatment of 1 nmol/kg CGRP8-37, which has antagonistic activity against CGRP, also inhibited the vasodilatation of adrenomedullin. The degree of CBV reduction after adrenomedullin22-52 injection was greater than that after CGRP8-37 injection. Adrenomedullin has no major role in the maintenance of resting tone of intracerebral parenchymal vessels. Intravascularly administered adrenomedullin dilates cortical microvessels mainly through the specific adrenomedullin receptor.
Bioactivity and interactions of adrenomedullin and brain natriuretic peptide in patients with heart failure.	Plasma concentrations of the recently discovered hormones adrenomedullin (ADM), from vascular tissue, and brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), secreted by myocardium, are elevated in patients with heart failure. We tested the hypotheses that short-term increments in circulating levels of these hormones, within the pathophysiological range, would have biological effects and that the 2 hormone systems interact. Eight patients with heart failure (left ventricular ejection fractions <35%) received 4-hour infusions of BNP (3.0 pmol. kg(-1). min(-1)) alone, ADM (2.7 pmol. kg(-1). min(-1) and 5.4 pmol. kg(-1). min(-1) for 2 hours each) alone, ADM and BNP combined, and placebo. BNP and ADM infusions raised plasma levels of the respective peptide within the pathophysiological range. Arterial blood pressure fell (P<0.05) with all peptide infusions, but cardiac output was unchanged. Heart rate increased with ADM and combined infusions (P<0.01). Sodium excretion rose (P<0.05), and creatinine clearance was sustained during both BNP and combined infusions. Urine volume increased in response to BNP alone (P=0.02). Despite a >2-fold increase in plasma renin with both ADM and combined infusions (P<0.05), plasma aldosterone remained lower than time-matched placebo levels. Plasma noradrenaline was increased by combined, BNP, and higher dose ADM infusions (P<0.05). ADM suppressed plasma cGMP (P<0.05) and inhibited the plasma cGMP response to BNP (P<0.05). The vascular hormones ADM and BNP, produced by myocardium, at plasma concentrations within the pathophysiological range have hemodynamic, renal, and hormonal effects and measurable interactions in patients with heart failure.
Troglitazone inhibits the capacitative Ca2+ entry in endothelial cells.	To investigate the effects of troglitazone on the capacitative Ca2+ entry, we monitored changes in cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) induced by thapsigargin in fura-2-loaded porcine endothelial cells in situ and in primary culture. In aortic valve endothelial cells in situ, thapsigargin induced sustained elevation of [Ca2+]i. Both troglitazone and SKF 96365 inhibited the steady state increase in [Ca2+]i in a concentration-dependent manner. At 30 microM, troglitazone and SKF 96365 inhibited the [Ca2+]i elevation to 19.4 +/- 3.6% and 43.9 +/- 4.5%, respectively. In aortic endothelial cells in primary culture, both troglitazone (10 microM) and SKF 96365 (100 microM) completely inhibited the thapsigargin-induced [Ca2+]i increase. The EC50 value of troglitazone (1.4 +/- 0.1 microM) was lower than that of SKF 96365 (10.0 +/- 3.3 microM). We suggest that troglitazone would be a useful tool to investigate the capacitative Ca2+ entry.
Reduced coronary NO production in conscious dogs after the development of alloxan-induced diabetes.	The role of nitric oxide (NO) in the control of coronary blood flow (CBF) during the development of diabetes is unknown. To study this, mongrel dogs were chronically instrumented using sterile techniques for measurements of systemic hemodynamics and CBF. With heart rate controlled (150 beats/min), veratrine (1-10 micrograms/kg) caused dose-dependent increases in CBF; e.g., 5 mirograms/kg of veratrine increased CBF by 57 +/- 7% from 41 +/- 1.3 ml/min (P < 0.05). The dogs developed diabetes 4-5 wk after injection of alloxan (40-60 mg/kg iv, blood glucose levels were 384 +/- 18 mg/dl). After diabetes the same doses of veratrine caused smaller increases in CBF; i.e., 5 micrograms/kg of veratrine increased CBF by 32 +/- 2% (P < 0.05 compared with control) from 28 +/- 4 ml/min. ACh- and adenosine-induced coronary vasodilation were reduced after diabetes as well. In anesthetized dogs after diabetes, vagal stimulation caused smaller increases in CBF. ACh and bradykinin caused smaller increases in NO(-)(2) production in coronary microvessels from diabetic dogs. Furthermore, despite the fact that mRNA for endothelial cell NO synthase from the aorta was increased twofold with the use of Northern blotting, the protein for aortic endothelial constitutive NO synthase was reduced by 66% after diabetes, as determined by Western blotting. Our results indicate that the NO-dependent coronary vasodilation by the Bezold-Jarisch reflex is impaired in conscious dogs after diabetes. The mechanism responsible for the impaired endothelium-dependent coronary vasodilation is most likely the decreased release of NO from the endothelium.
Impairment of EDR by a long-term PDGF treatment in organ-cultured rabbit mesenteric artery.	Platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) has been shown to act chronically on blood vessels to regulate not only proliferation but also vascular tone. These effects may be at least partly due to the chronic effect of PDGF on vascular endothelium. To evaluate this possibility, we examined the effects of PDGF on the endothelium-dependent relaxation (EDR) and total RNA for endothelial nitric oxide (NO) synthase (eNOS) using an organ culture system. In rabbit mesenteric arteries cultured in a serum-free medium for 1 wk, amplitude of the substance P-induced EDR did not change, whereas dependency of the EDR on NO (approximately 60.0% vs. 18.9%) and the total amounts of recoverable eNOS mRNA estimated by RT-PCR were increased compared with those in freshly isolated arteries. Culture with PDGF for 1 wk decreased the relaxant effect of substance P and ionomycin (P < 0.01 compared with the arteries without PDGF), NO production estimated by bioassay (P < 0.01), and eNOS mRNA level, whereas the sodium nitroprusside-induced relaxation did not change. These results suggest that PDGF has a chronic effect on vascular endothelium to decrease eNOS mRNA and NO production and to impair NO-dependent EDR.
Pulmonary artery endothelium-dependent vasodilation is impaired in a chicken model of pulmonary hypertension.	Among chicken strains, broilers are prone to pulmonary hypertension, whereas Leghorns are not. Relaxations to endothelium-dependent (ACh, A23187) and endothelium-independent [sodium nitroprusside (SNP), papaverine (PPV)] vasodilators were compared in preconstricted pulmonary artery (PA) rings from these chicken strains. ACh (10(-7), 10(-6), and 10(-5) M)- and A23187 (10(-6) and 10(-5.5) M)-induced relaxations were smaller (P < 0.05) in broilers than Leghorns. N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10(-3.5) M) caused similar reductions in ACh-induced relaxations in both strains. L-Arginine (10(-4) M) enhanced ACh-induced relaxations more in broilers than Leghorns. Relaxations to 10(-10)-10(-6) M SNP did not differ between strains, but were greater (P < 0.05) in broilers than Leghorns at higher concentrations (10(-5) and 10(-4) M). PPV (10(-4) M)- and SNP (10(-4) M)-induced maximal relaxations were greater in broilers than in Leghorns (176.2 +/- 14.7 vs. 120.9 +/- 14.7% and 201.3 +/- 7.8 vs. 171.2 +/- 10.7%, respectively, P < 0.05). Broiler PA rings appear to have increased intrinsic tone and reduced endothelium-derived nitric oxide activity, both of which may contribute to the susceptibility of broiler chickens to pulmonary hypertension.
Characterization of acute reversible systemic hypertension in a model of heme protein-induced renal injury.	In the glycerol model of renal injury we describe an acute rise in systemic arterial pressure which is attended by a reduced vasodilatory response to acetylcholine in vivo; vasodilatory responses to verapamil, however, were not impaired. Neither arginine nor sodium nitroprusside diminished this rise in blood pressure; N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) elevated basal mean arterial pressure and markedly blunted the rise in mean arterial pressure following the administration of glycerol. Aortic rings from the glycerol-treated rat demonstrate an impaired vasodilatory response to acetylcholine, an effect not repaired by arginine; the vasodilatory responses to nitric oxide donors, sodium nitroprusside and SIN-1, were also impaired; 8-bromo-cGMP, at higher doses, evinced a vasodilatory response comparable to that observed in the control rings. This pattern of responses was not a nonspecific effect of aortic injury, since aortic rings treated with mercuric chloride, a potent oxidant, displayed an impaired vasodilatory response to acetylcholine but not to sodium nitroprusside. We conclude that in the glycerol model of heme protein-induced tissue injury, there is an acute elevation in mean arterial pressure attended by impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in vitro and in vivo. We suggest that the acute scavenging of nitric oxide by heme proteins depletes the blood vessel wall of its endogenous vasodilator and permeation of heme proteins into the blood vessel wall may contribute to such sustained effects as observed in vitro.
Basal nitric oxide production is impaired in offspring of patients with essential hypertension.	There is considerable evidence that endothelium-dependent nitric oxide (NO)-mediated vasodilatation in response to acetylcholine is impaired in essential hypertension, whereas the endothelium-independent response to sodium nitroprusside is normal. More limited data have suggested that there is also reduced vasoconstriction in response to N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), a competitive inhibitor of basal NO release. As it is not known whether endothelial dysfunction in hypertension, if indeed present, is a cause or consequence of the condition, we have studied the normotensive offspring of parents with essential hypertension. Both basal and stimulated vascular responses were examined in 12 normotensive offspring [mean age (+/-S.E.M.) 26.1+/-1.4 years] of parents with essential hypertension and compared with those in 12 age-matched offspring (mean age 25.6+/-1.1 years) of normotensive subjects. Forearm blood flow was measured simultaneously in both arms by venous occlusion plethysmography, both at baseline and during intra-arterial brachial infusion of increasing doses of acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside, noradrenaline and L-NMMA. There were no significant differences between the groups in the responses to acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside or noradrenaline. In contrast, the vasoconstrictor response to L-NMMA was significantly blunted in the offspring of hypertensive parents compared with that in the offspring of normotensive parents (P=0.005). Thus endothelial dysfunction, as demonstrated by impaired basal production of NO, is present in subjects at high risk of essential hypertension, and does not occur simply as a consequence of the condition.
Nitric oxide donors can increase heart rate independent of autonomic activation.	Administration of nitric oxide (NO) donors in vivo is accompanied by a baroreflex-mediated increase in heart rate (HR). In vitro, however, NO donors can increase HR directly by stimulating a pathway that involves NO, cGMP, and the hyperpolarization-activated current (I(f)). The aim of this study was to assess the functional significance of this pathway in vivo by testing whether NO donors can increase HR in the anesthetized rabbit independent of the autonomic nervous system. New Zealand White rabbits were vagotomized, cardiac sympathectomized, and treated with propranolol (0.3 mg/kg iv). The NO donor molsidomine (0.2 mg/kg iv) caused a progressive increase (Delta) in HR (DeltaHR, 14 +/- 3 beats/min; P < 0.01). This effect was significantly reduced by the I(f) blocker ZD-7288 (0.2 mg/kg iv; DeltaHR, 2 +/- 3 beats/min; P = not significant). Similar results were seen with sodium nitroprusside. The positive chronotropic effect of sodium nitroprusside (50 microM) was confirmed in the isolated working rabbit heart preparation (DeltaHR, 17 +/- 3 beats/min; P < 0.01). In conclusion, NO donors exert a small, but significant, positive chronotropic effect in vivo that is independent of the autonomic nervous system. These results are also consistent with data in sinoatrial node cells that show that NO donors increase HR by stimulating I(f).
Effects of acute and chronic hypoxia on nitric oxide-mediated relaxation of fetal guinea pig arteries.	These studies tested whether fetal artery reactivity is sensitive to both acute changes in oxygen levels (in vitro) and chronic changes (in utero).
Cortical NADH during pharmacological manipulations of the respiratory chain and spreading depression in vivo.	The nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) is one of the main means for energy transfer in the mitochondrial respiratory chain and is an important parameter of cellular metabolism. NADH can be measured by its fluorescence and various fluorometric methods have been developed. In this study, a pulsed nitrogen laser combined with a fibreoptic set-up and photomultipliers was used to induce and measure NADH fluorescence on the cortical surface. The aim of the study was to assess the suitability of the laser induced spectroscopy for in vivo and on-line measurement of NADH in neuroscience and particularly for the assessment of neuronal metabolism. Changes in cerebral blood flow may affect fluorescence measurement. To assess the consequences of alterations in blood flow, the vasodilators glyceryl trinitrate and nimodipine and the vasoconstrictor endothelin-1 were applied. The induced hemodynamic changes were verified by colour Doppler sonography. The tests using the vasodilators showed that an increased blood flow in the brain increased not only NADH fluorescence but also the scattered light measured. The vasoconstrictor caused opposite effects. Insertion of a compensation method (subtraction of the scattered light) allowed the exclusion of hemodynamic artifacts. Effects of changes in the cellular metabolism were induced by sodium cyanide, an inhibitor of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, or by 2,4-dinitrophenol (2,4-DNP), an uncoupler of the oxidative phosphorylation. Sodium cyanide induced a transient increase of NADH fluorescence and 2,4-DNP decreased intracellular NADH fluorescence. Furthermore, the repercussions of cortical spreading depressions (CSD), a response of the brain to noxious stimuli, on cortical NADH fluorescence were determined. A single CSD decreased cortical NADH fluorescence for about 1 min, followed by a 5- to 10-min increase. The changes in NADH levels seem to correspond with the excitation and inhibition of neuronal metabolism, respectively. In summary, the measurement of NADH fluorescence using the laser technique allows the determination of changes in oxidative phosphorylation with high regional selectivity and time resolution.
Cardiovascular changes following acute and chronic chemical lesions of the dorsal periaqueductal gray in conscious rats.	This study was carried out to investigate the effects of chemical lesions of dorsal periaqueductal gray (DPAG) on resting arterial pressure (AP) and heart rate (HR) as well as on cardiac baroreflex of conscious normotensive rats. Lesions were performed by bilateral microinjections of 150 mM NMDA into the DPAG (DPAG-lesion group). Controls were similarly injected with 165 mM NaCl (DPAG-sham group). Animals with chronic lesions confined only to the superior colliculus (SC-lesion group) were also used as controls of DPAG-lesion. Cardiovascular parameters were recorded 1 or 7 days after the microinjections of NMDA in acute and chronic groups, respectively. Cardiac baroreflex was assessed by measuring the HR responses to the intravenous injection of phenylephrine or sodium nitroprusside. Baroreflex was estimated by sigmoidal curve fitting of HR responses. An increased baroreflex gain was observed in chronic DPAG-lesion rats compared to both DPAG-sham (p < 0.01) and SC-lesion (p < 0.05) chronic groups. The chronic DPAG-lesion group showed also an elevation of both the tachycardia (p < 0.05) and bradycardia (p < 0.01) plateaus compared to chronic DPAG-sham rats, while the SC-lesion group showed an elevation of the bradycardia plateau only (p < 0.01). Similar results on baroreflex function were observed following acute lesion of the DPAG, i.e. an increase in baroreflex gain (p < 0.01) and the elevation of both tachycardia (p < 0.05) and bradycardia plateaus (p < 0.01) compared to the acute DPAG-sham group. Resting AP and HR did not differ among the chronic groups. In contrast, the acute lesion of the DPAG produced a reduction in AP (p < 0.01) accompanied by an increase in HR (p < 0.01). The present data suggest that the DPAG is involved in the tonic and reflex control of AP and HR in conscious rats. In addition, the SC seems to contribute to the baroreflex cardioinhibition.
Eugenodilol: a third-generation beta-adrenoceptor blocker, derived from eugenol, with alpha-adrenoceptor blocking and beta2-adrenoceptor agonist-associated vasorelaxant activities.	Eugenodilol, derived from natural eugenol, was first investigated with in vivo and in vitro models. In our in vivo study, eugenodilol (0.5, 1.0, and 1.5 mg/kg, i.v.) produced dose-dependent hypotensive and bradycardic responses in pentobarbital-anesthetized Wistar rats. Eugenodilol also inhibited the tachycardia and arterial pressor effects induced by (-)isoproterenol and phenylephrine, respectively. In our in vitro study, eugenodilol competitively antagonized (-)isoproterenol-induced positive inotropic and chronotropic effects and tracheal-relaxation responses on isolated guinea pig tissues in a concentration-dependent manner. The apparent pA2 values were 7.88+/-0.12 for right atria, 7.52+/-0.05 for left atria, and 7.33+/-0.15 for trachea, indicating that eugenodilol was a nonselective beta-adrenoceptor blocker. In thoracic aorta experiments, the apparent pA2 values of alpha-adrenoceptor blockade were 7.05+/-0.25 and 6.87+/-0.08 for eugenodilol and labetalol, respectively. In addition, eugenodilol produced cumulative relaxation responses on isolated guinea pig tracheal strips. The effects were competitively antagonized by ICI 118,551 (10(-8)-10(-6) M), a relatively selective beta2-adrenoceptor antagonist. In the radioligand-binding assay, the Ki values of [3H]CGP-12177 binding to rat ventricle and lung membranes were 9.72 and 48.29 nM, respectively, and the value of [3H]prazosin binding to rat brain membrane was 38.72 nM. These results further confirmed the alpha/beta-adrenoceptors-blocking activities of eugenodilol reported in the functional studies. We conclude that eugenodilol is a novel third-generation beta-adrenoceptor blocker with ancillary blocking activity at alpha-adrenoceptors and weak sympathomimetic activity at beta2-adrenoceptors.
Influence of FR 167653, an inhibitor of TNF-alpha and IL-1, on the cardiovascular responses to chronic infusion of lipopolysaccharide in conscious rats.	Conscious, male Long Evans rats (350-450 g) chronically instrumented for the measurement of regional haemodynamics, were infused with FR 167653, a dual inhibitor of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) synthesis (0.32 mg/kg/h) for 24 h, beginning 1 h before coinfusion of saline, or with saline for 24 h beginning 1 h before coinfusion of lipopolysaccharide (150 microg/kg/h), or with FR 167653 beginning 1 h before coinfusion of lipopolysaccharide. Animals infused with FR 167653 and saline showed progressive hindquarters vasoconstriction over the 24-h period, but this was not different from the change seen in animals (n = 3) infused with saline alone. However, plasma analysis at the end of the coinfusion of FR 167653 and saline showed substantial elevation in levels of creatine kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, and potassium, consistent with some tissue damage (heart, liver, or skeletal muscle, or a combination of these). Animals coinfused with saline and lipopolysaccharide showed biphasic decreases in mean arterial blood pressure accompanied by renal hyperaemic vasodilatation, and decreases followed by increases in mesenteric and hindquarters flows and vascular conductances. At the end of the infusion period, plasma analysis showed signs of renal dysfunction (elevated creatinine) and hepatic dysfunction (elevated alkaline phosphatase, gamma-glutamyl transferase, and alanine aminotransferase). In the presence of FR 167653, the hypotensive effects of lipopolysaccharide were abolished, but regional haemodynamics were unchanged, as were signs of organ dysfunction. One explanation of these observations is that FR 167653 causes a relative improvement in cardiac function during infusion of lipopolysaccharide, and this opposes the hypotensive effects of the latter, in spite of its persistent vasodilator effects.
Effect of prolonged treatment with amlodipine on enhanced vascular contractility in cardiomyopathic hamsters.	This study examined the effects of prolonged treatment with amlodipine on the enhanced vascular contractions in dilated cardiomyopathic (CM) hamsters. From the ages of 5 to 20 weeks, CM hamsters (BIO 53.58) orally received amlodipine. Then we compared the contractile responses to vasoconstrictors in aortas and mesenteric arteries from CM hamsters with or without treatment with those in the arteries from controls (F1b). We also investigated the effect of amlodipine treatment on the Ca2+ sensitivity of tension in beta-escin-skinned smooth muscle of mesenteric artery. The contractile responses to phenylephrine, angiotensin II, and high K+ in both aorta and mesenteric artery were greatly enhanced in CM hamsters compared with controls. Amlodipine treatment slightly but significantly inhibited the enhanced responses in aorta but did not alter the responses in mesenteric arteries. The Ca2+ sensitivity of tension was significantly increased in CM hamster preparations, which was unaffected by amlodipine treatment. These data indicate that amlodipine treatment differentially affects the enhanced responses to vasoconstrictors between large and small blood vessels from CM hamsters. The lack of effect of amlodipine treatment on the responsiveness of CM mesenteric artery leads to the suggestion that the preventive effect of amlodipine on focal myocytolytic necrosis of cardiomyocytes, which was previously reported to be the main cause of cardiomyopathy, results from an action on cardiomyocytes.
Inhibitory mechanism of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine on acetylcholine-induced depressor responses in dogs.	The significance of the blood pressure elevation caused by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) to inhibitory mechanism of the drug on depressor responses to acetylcholine in anesthetized dogs was investigated. L-NNA (50 mg kg(-1), i.v.) elevated blood pressure to a plateau of 30-50 mm Hg above baseline level and shifted the dose-response curve for acetylcholine-induced responses to the right by about 70-fold. Prevention by hydralazine (1 mg kg(-1), i.v.) of the blood pressure elevation over baseline level caused by L-NNA attenuated the inhibitory effect of L-NNA on the responses to acetylcholine. Intravenous neostigmine (30 microg kg(-1) bolus followed by 15 microg kg(-1) min(-1)) attenuated the inhibitory effect of L-NNA. The magnitude of the rightward shift in the dose-response curve for carbachol-induced depressor responses was only 3-fold. These results suggest that the accelerated acetylcholine metabolism by blood pressure elevation contributes to a considerable degree to the inhibitory mechanism of L-NNA.
Immunocytochemical localisation of neuropeptide-containing nerve fibres in human labial glands.	Different neuropeptide-containing nerve fibers (vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P, neuropeptide Y) and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) positive nerve fibers were investigated to clarify their role in the function of human labial glands using immunohisto- and immunocytochemical techniques. The distribution pattern of all immunoreactive nerve fibers was similar both in the control and in the Sjgren's syndrome specimens. A large number of thin varicose vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and NOS positive nerve fibers were seen around or in close contact with the acini. Some of the immunoreactive nerve fibers were associated with the salivary ducts and blood vessels. Substance P and neuropeptide Y immunoreactive nerve fibers were located mainly around the blood vessels. Immunocytochemistry demonstrated that some of the positive nerve fibers were in direct contact with the acini, blood vessels and with the lymphocytes. The gap between the membranes of immunoreactive nerve terminals and the target cells was 40 to 200 nm. The number of the nerve terminals in Sjgren's syndrome specimens was decreased and some degenerated axons were also found. These results suggest that these neuropeptides and nitric oxide might act as a neurotransmitter in the regulation of secretion and blood flow in the labial glands. These fibers might also alter the neuroimmunological processes, because the investigated neuropeptides are known to be immunoregulators.
The effect of amiodarone on the ventricular fibrillation threshold.	We evaluated the antifibrillatory effect of two different doses of amiodarone after cardiac arrest with a cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) model in 19 pigs. Ventricular fibrillation was induced by pacing the right ventricle using a primary drive train at a cycle length of 270 msec for 8 beats. The minimum current strength necessary to induce sustained ventricular fibrillation was defined as the ventricular fibrillation threshold (VFT) measured in mA. Three VFT determinations were made at baseline, followed by 9 minutes of continuous CPR with two determinations of VFT, and three after stabilization. The pigs were placed into one of three groups: amiodarone 2 or 5 mg/kg, or placebo. The average poststabilization VFT in each group was compared with the average baseline VFT. Pigs receiving amiodarone 2 mg/kg had significantly higher VFT after stabilization than at baseline (22.88+/-12.76 to 27.10+/-10.18 mA, p=0.048), as did those receiving 5 mg/kg (17.03+/-7.01 to 28.08+/-11.58 mA, p=0.002). The deltaVFT was significantly greater with amiodarone 5 mg/kg than with vehicle (placebo), but not with 2 mg/kg. There were no changes in VFT in any group during CPR versus baseline. When active treatments were combined, the trend was toward better survival in the amiodarone groups (13/13) compared with the placebo group (4/6, p=0.076).
Combined high-speed NMR imaging of perfusion and microscopic coronary conductance vessels in the isolated rat heart.	Noninvasive characterization of microcirculation at the level of both coronary conductance and resistance vessels is of major importance for the understanding of microvascular adaptive processes in the heart. The objective of this study was to determine simultaneously myocardial perfusion and microvessel diameters in the myocardium by magnetic resonance (MR) imaging within the same heart. A MR imaging method is presented which combines high-resolution perfusion measurement (140 x 140 microm2) by spin labeling with flow-weighted MR microscopy of coronary microvessels (phi > 140 microm). We determined changes in myocardial perfusion and vessel diameters of isolated beating rat hearts (n = 10) at rest and during administration of nitroglycerin (0.5 mg/min). Alterations in perfusion were validated by microsphere measurements. Under the influence of nitroglycerin an increase in perfusion (+2.51 +/- 0.4 ml x min(-1) x g(-1), mean +/- SEM) and vessel diameters (+14.22 +/- 1.92%) could be observed. Endocardial perfusion revealed a modest enhanced susceptibility to nitroglycerin in comparison to epicardial perfusion. Analysis of vessels according to their diameters showed no significant differences. MR imaging allows the noninvasive and simultaneous determination of conducting arteries and smaller resistance vessels in one and the same beating rat heart. Due to an excellent spatial resolution of these methods, transmural characterization of both parameters at rest and during vasodilation is feasible.
Insulin therapy improves insulin-stimulated endothelial function in patients with type 2 diabetes and ischemic heart disease.	Blunted insulin-stimulated endothelial function may be a mechanism for the development of atherothrombotic disease in type 2 diabetes, but it is unknown whether hypoglycemic drug therapy can modulate this abnormality. We studied patients with type 2 diabetes and stable ischemic heart disease (n = 28) and lean, healthy control subjects (n = 31). Forearm blood flow was measured by venous occlusion plethysmography during dose-response studies of acetylcholine (ACh) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) infused into the brachial artery. In the patients and 10 healthy control subjects, ACh was repeated after intrabrachial infusion of insulin. Patients were restudied after 2 months of insulin therapy with four daily subcutaneous injections (treatment group, n = 19) or without hypoglycemic drug therapy (time control group, n = 9). Insulin infusion raised venous serum insulin in the forearm to high physiological levels (133 +/- 14.6 mU/l in patients) with a minor increase in systemic venous serum insulin. This increased the ACh response by 149 +/- 47, 110 +/- 33, 100 +/- 45, and 106 +/- 44% during the four ACh doses in healthy control subjects (P < 0.0001) but had no effect in patients (P = 0.3). After 2 months, HbA(1c) in the treatment group had decreased from 10.0 +/- 0.4 to 7.5 +/- 0.2%. Although neither the ACh response (P = 0.09) nor the SNP response (P = 0.4) had changed significantly, insulin stimulation had a significant effect, as the ACh response increased by 58 +/- 25, 84 +/- 66, 120 +/- 93, and 69 +/- 36% (P = 0.0002). In the time control group, insulin stimulation remained without effect after 8 weeks (P = 0.7). In conclusion, insulin therapy partly restores insulin-stimulated endothelial function in patients with type 2 diabetes and ischemic heart disease.
Ginkgo biloba extract-induced relaxation of rat aorta is associated with increase in endothelial intracellular calcium level.	Ginkgo biloba extract (GBE) has been used clinically for improving peripheral vascular diseases in France and Germany. In the present study, to clarify the pharmacological properties of vasodilation produced by GBE, we examined the effect of GBE and quercetin, one of the ingredients in GBE, on the thoracic aorta isolated from Wistar rats. GBE produced a dose-dependent relaxation in the aortic ring precontracted with noradrenaline, and the relaxation was abolished by L-N(G)-nitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Quercetin produced a similar relaxation, which was also abolished by L-NAME. We then examined the effects of GBE and quercetin on the intracellular calcium level ([Ca2+]i) of cultured aortic endothelial cells using a fluorescent confocal microscopic imaging system. Both GBE and quercetin produced significant increases in [Ca2+]i in the endothelial cells. The increase in [Ca2+]i by quercetin (10(-6) M) was abolished by removing the extracellular Ca2+, but was not affected by thapsigargin, a calcium pump inhibitor. These findings suggest that a principal ingredient of GBE producing vasodilation is quercetin, which can activate nitric oxide synthesis and release by increasing [Ca2+]i in vascular endothelial cells.
Comparative vasodilation of peroxynitrite and 3-morpholinosydnonimine.	Vasorelaxation mediated by peroxynitrite (ONOO-) and 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1) were investigated in isolated bovine intramammary arteries. Both ONOO- and SIN-1 relaxed U 46619-precontracted rings in a dose-dependent, endothelium-independent manner. Pretreatment with an adenylyl cyclase inhibitor, SQ 22536 [(9-tetrahydro-2-furyl)adenine], resulted in an enhanced ONOO--mediated relaxation, but did not modulate the response to SIN-1. ODQ (1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one), a potent and selective inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC), did not significantly affect relaxant actions of ONOO-, but ODQ markedly attenuated SIN-1-elicited relaxation with a rightward shift in the dose-response curve and an unaltered maximal response. In the presence of carboxy-PTIO (2-phenyl-4,4,5,5,-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide), a putative nitric oxide scavenger and ONOO- inactivator, the relaxant response to ONOO- was abolished, while relaxant actions of SIN-1 appeared to be unaffected. The results reveal a difference between ONOO- and SIN-1-mediated relaxation with regards to the role of the sGC and suggest that ONOO--evoked relaxation may not be associated with sGC activity, but rather depends on an sGC-independent mechanism triggered by ONOO- and/or NO itself. It also re-emphasizes that SIN-1 induces a vasorelaxant response, in part, via stimulation of sGC.
The influence of deliberate hypotension on splanchnic perfusion balance with use of either isoflurane or esmolol and nitroglycerin.	Various techniques to induce deliberate hypotension (DH) have different influences on splanchnic perfusion. The aim of our study was to determine whether splanchnic perfusion is clinically impaired during DH by using either isoflurane (ISO) or a combination of esmolol and nitroglycerin (E/N). We randomized 16 patients undergoing elective maxillofacial surgery to receive either ISO (0.7%-1.8%) or E (105 g x kg(-1) x min(-1)) and N (1-6 mg/h) to induce DH. General anesthesia was performed in both groups by IV midazolam 0.07 mg/kg, fentanyl 0.003 mg/kg, propofol 1.5 mg/kg, and vecuronium 0.1 mg/kg followed by a propofol infusion with 6 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1). After the induction of anesthesia, a gastric tonometer (TRIP NGS Catheter) and a radial artery catheter were inserted. Baseline values of gastric intramucosal pH (pHi) were determined 60 min after placement of the catheter and before the induction of DH. The pHi values were calculated every 60 min until DH was discontinued. In both groups, DH was satisfactorily established. None of the pHi values calculated was less than 7.37 in the E/N or 7.41 in the ISO group. Arterial blood lactate levels did not increase in any of the patients. We conclude that neither method of producing DH compromises splanchnic tissue oxygen balance in healthy patients. Furthermore, overall organ perfusion was sufficient in both groups, because none of the patients showed an increase in blood lactate.
Quantitative aspects of the inhibition by N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine of responses to endothelium-dependent vasodilators in human forearm vasculature.	1. N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) constricts human forearm resistance vasculature and selectively attenuates vasodilator responses to endothelium-dependent vasodilators. Incomplete inhibition of such responses could be due to an inadequate dose of L-NMMA or to NO-independent vasodilator mechanisms. 2. This study sought to determine doses of L-NMMA that are maximally effective in reducing basal and stimulated forearm blood flow. Drugs were infused via the brachial artery in 32 healthy men. Acetylcholine (11 - 330 nmol min(-1)) was compared with albuterol (0.33 - 10 nmol min(-1)), and nitroprusside (1.7 - 20 nmol min(-1)). 3. The effect of L-NMMA on basal flow approached maximum (53+/-2% reduction) at a dose of 16 micromol min(-1). L-NMMA (16 micromol min(-1)) did not significantly influence responses to nitroprusside, but antagonized acetylcholine and albuterol (each P<0.001, by repeated measures analysis of variance). 4. Inhibition of acetylcholine by L-NMMA (16 micromol min(-1)) was strongly influenced by acetylcholine dose (73+/-7% inhibition at 11 nmol min(-1), P<0.01; 4+/-11% inhibition at 330 nmol min(-1), P=NS, Student's paired t-test). Significant inhibition of albuterol was observed at all doses. 5. A higher dose of L-NMMA (64 micromol min(-1)) did not significantly inhibit the response to acetylcholine (330 nmol min(-1)). Responses to this dose of acetylcholine were unaffected by a cyclo-oxygenase (COX) inhibitor (indometacin) alone but combined COX and NO inhibition attenuated acetylcholine responses by 42+/-19%, implying that there is a compensatory increase in the contribution of prostaglandins or NO to acetylcholine-induced dilatation when one or other pathway is inhibited.
Clonidine-induced nitric oxide-dependent vasorelaxation mediated by endothelial alpha(2)-adrenoceptor activation.	1. To assess the involvement of endothelial alpha(2)-adrenoceptors in the clonidine-induced vasodilatation, the mesenteric artery of Sprague Dawley rats was cannulated and perfused with Tyrode solution (2 ml min(-1)). We measured perfusion pressure, nitric oxide (NO) in the perfusate using chemiluminescence, and tissue cyclic GMP by RIA. 2. In phenylephrine-precontracted mesenteries, clonidine elicited concentration-dependent vasodilatations associated to a rise in luminal NO. One hundred nM rauwolscine or 100 microM L(omega)-nitro-L-arginine antagonized the clonidine-induced vasodilatation. Guanabenz, guanfacine, and oxymetazoline mimicked the clonidine-induced vasorelaxation. 3. In non-contracted mesenteries, 100 nM clonidine elicited a maximal rise of NO (123+/-13 pmol); associated to a peak in tissue cyclic GMP. Endothelium removal, L(omega)-nitro-L-arginine, or rauwolscine ablated the rise in NO. One hundred nM aminoclonidine, guanfacine, guanabenz, UK14,304 and oxymetazoline mimicked the clonidine-induced surge of NO. Ten microM ODQ obliterated the clonidine-induced vasorelaxation and the associated tissue cyclic GMP accumulation; 10 - 100 nM sildenafil increased tissue cyclic GMP accumulation without altering the clonidine-induced NO release. 4. alpha(2)-Adrenergic blockers antagonized the clonidine-induced rise in NO. Consistent with a preferential alpha(2D)-adrenoceptor activation, the K(B)s for yohimbine, rauwolscine, phentolamine, WB-4101, and prazosin were: 6.8, 24, 19, 165, and 1489 nM, respectively. 5. Rat pretreatment with 100 mg kg(-1) 6-hydroxydopamine reduced 95% tissue noradrenaline and 60% neuropeptide Y. In these preparations, 100 nM clonidine elicited a rise of 91.9+/-15.5 pmol NO. Perfusion with 1 microM guanethidine or 1 microM guanethidine plus 1 microM atropine did not modify the NO surge evoked by 100 nM clonidine. 6. Clonidine and congeners activate endothelial alpha(2D)-adrenoceptors coupled to the L-arginine pathway, suggesting that the antihypertensive action of clonidine involves an endothelial vasorelaxation mediated by NO release, in addition to presynaptic mechanisms.
Reciprocal regulation of cyclic GMP content by cyclic GMP-phosphodiesterase and guanylate cyclase in SHR with CsA-induced nephrotoxicity.	1. The effect of the immunosuppressant drug, cyclosporin A (CsA), on the nitric oxide (NO)-cyclic GMP pathway was examined in spontaneous hypertensive rats (SHR). 2. CsA (50 mg kg(-1)) treatment for 14 days induced typical CsA nephrotoxicity, which was characterized by morphological changes in the glomerulus and proximal tubule as well as an abnormality of creatinine clearance, FENa and BUN. 3. CsA significantly decreased both NOS activity in the kidney and NOx contents in urine, but significantly increased cyclic GMP content in the kidney. 4. A marked change in two kinds of enzyme, which contribute towards the increase in cyclic GMP in tissue, namely, a decrease in cyclic GMP-phosphodiesterase activity and increase in guanylate cyclase activity, was observed in the kidney treated with CsA. 5. In the isolated perfused kidney, a decreased in perfusion pressure induced by SNP in the kidney isolated from CsA group was significantly greater than that of control. 6. There seem to exist a reciprocal mechanism to maintain cyclic GMP content via both a decrease in cyclic GMP degradation and an increase in synthesis of cyclic GMP in the kidney treated with CsA. This mechanism is likely to be playing an important role to regulate the homeostasis in the kidney with CsA nephrotoxicity.
Cellular target of voltage and calcium-dependent K(+) channel blockers involved in EDHF-mediated responses in rat superior mesenteric artery.	1. We have investigated the cellular target of K(+) channel blockers responsible for the inhibition of the EDHF-mediated relaxation in the rat mesenteric artery by studying their effects on tension, smooth muscle cell (SMC) membrane potential and endothelial cell Ca(2+) signal ([Ca(2+)](endo)). 2. In arteries contracted with prostaglandin F(2 alpha) (2.5 - 10 microM), relaxation evoked by ACh (0.01 - 3 microM) was abolished by a combination of charybdotoxin (ChTX, 0.1 microM) plus apamin (Apa, 0.1 microM) and was inhibited by 68+/-6% (n=6) by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 5 mM). 3. ACh(0.001 - 3 microM) increased [Ca(2+)](endo) and hyperpolarized SMCs with the same potency, the pD(2) values were equal to 7.2+/-0.08 (n=4) and 7.2+/-0.07 (n=9), respectively. SMCs hyperpolarization to ACh (1 microM) was abolished by high K(+) solution or by ChTX/Apa. It was decreased by 66+/-5% (n=6) by 4-AP. 4. The increase in [Ca(2+)](endo) evoked by ACh (1 microM) was insensitive to ChTX/Apa but was depressed by 58+/-16% (n=6) and 27+/-4% (n=7) by raising external K(+) concentration and by 4-AP, respectively. 5. The effect of 4-AP on [Ca(2+)](endo) was not affected by increasing external K(+) concentration. In Ca-free/EGTA solution, the transient increase in [Ca(2+)](endo) evoked by ACh (1 microM) was abolished by thapsigargin (1 microM) and was decreased by 75+/-7% (n=5) by 4-AP. 6. These results show that inhibition of EDHF-evoked responses by 4-AP may be attributed to a decrease in the Ca(2+) release activated by ACh in endothelial cells. The abolition of SMCs hyperpolarization to ACh by ChTX/Apa is not related to an interaction with the [Ca(2+)](endo).
Effect of simvastatin on renal function in autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease.	In animal models, HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors were able to improve renal function and endothelium-dependent vascular reactivity. In various experimental renal diseases, including autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors improved the rate of decline in renal function. We studied the effect of simvastatin on ADPKD patients.
Rutaecarpine-induced block of delayed rectifier K+ current in NG108-15 neuronal cells.	The effects of rutaecarpine on ionic currents of NG108-15 neuronal cells were investigated in this study. Rutaecarpine (2-100 microM) suppressed the amplitude of delayed rectifier K+ current (I(K(DR))) in a concentration-dependent manner. The IC50 value for rutaecarpine-induced inhibition of I(K(DR)) was 11 microM. I(K(DR)) present in these cells is sensitive to the inhibition by quinidine and dendrotoxin, yet not by E-4031. The presence of rutaecarpine enhanced the rate and extent of I(K(DR)) inactivation, although it had no effect on the initial activation phase of I(K(DR)). Recovery from block by rutaecarpine (5 microM) was fitted by a single exponential with a value of 2.87 s. Crossover of tail currents in the presence of rutaecarpine was also observed. Cell-attached single-channel recordings revealed that rutaecarpine decreased channel activity, but it did not alter single-channel amplitude. With the aid of the binding scheme, a quantitative description of the rutaecarpine actions on I(K(DR)) was provided. However, rutaecarpine (20 microM) had no effect on L-type Ca2+ current. Under current-clamp configuration, rutaecarpine prolonged action potential duration in NG108-15 cells. These results show that rutaecarpine is a blocker of the K(DR) channel. The increase in action potential duration induced by rutaecarpine can be explained mainly by its blocking actions on I(K(DR)).
Inhibition of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors by bicuculline.	A study was made on the effects of bicuculline, the classical gamma-aminobutyric acid-A receptor antagonist, on heteromeric mouse muscle alphabetagammadelta, heteromeric neuronal rat alpha2beta4 and alpha4beta2 and homomeric human alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Bicuculline reduced the ACh-induced currents in a rapid and reversible way, with IC50 values of 34+/-1.5 microM for mouse muscle alphabetagammadelta and 12.4+/-0.7 and 18+/-1 microM for rat neuronal alpha2beta4 and alpha4beta2 nAChRs, respectively. Therefore, the three types of heteromeric receptors are inhibited by bicuculline but the neuronal alpha2beta4 and alpha4beta2 receptors were more sensitive than the muscle alphabetagammadelta receptor. The Hill coefficients for ACh-current inhibition were close to one for all types of receptors, suggesting a single site of action for bicuculline inhibition of nAChRs. Bicuculline shifted the ACh-dose-current response curve to the right and the maximal current was reduced, a reduction that for the heteromeric receptors was not overcome by high concentrations of ACh. The effect of bicuculline was examined at different membrane potentials, and the ACh-current-membrane potential relationships obtained indicate that the inhibition by bicuculline is voltage-dependent for muscle alphabetagammadelta and neuronal alpha2beta4 and alpha4beta2 nAChRs. All these results are consistent with the notion that bicuculline blocks the heteromeric muscle and neuronal nAChRs in a non-competitive way. Studies were also made on the wild type (wt alpha7) and mutant leu-to-threo (L248T) homomeric human neuronal alpha7-nAChRs. In sharp contrast to the heteromeric ACh receptors examined, bicuculline blocked in a competitive way the homomeric wt alpha7-nAChRs, as evidenced by a parallel shift of the bicuculline dose-ACh-current inhibition on raising the ACh concentration. Moreover, similar to the effects of serotonin on wt and mutant alpha7 ACh receptors, the mutation converted bicuculline from an antagonist into a competitive agonist. All this suggests that bicuculline may serve as a lead molecule to design new anticholinergic substances.
Effect of volatile anesthetics on the force-frequency relation in human ventricular myocardium: the role of the sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium-release channel.	In human ventricular myocardium, contractile force increases at higher stimulation frequencies (positive force-frequency relation). In failing hearts, the force-frequency relation (FFR) is negative. Data on the effect of volatile anesthetics on FFR are very limited.
Dissociation between vasodilation and Leishmania infection-enhancing effects of sand fly saliva and maxadilan.	In this study, the ability of maxadilan and Lutzomyia longipalpis salivary gland lysate to enhance the infection of CBA mice by Leishmania major and of BALB/c mice by L. braziliensis was tested. No difference was observed between sizes of lesion in CBA mice infected with L. major and treated or not with salivary gland lysate or maxadilan, although they were injected in concentrations that induced cutaneous vasodilation. Although parasites were more frequently observed in foot pads and spleens of animals treated with maxadilan than in the animals treated with salivary gland lysate or saline, the differences were small and not statistically significant. The lesions in BALB/c mice infected with L. braziliensis and treated with maxadilan were slightly larger than in animals that received Leishmania alone. Such differences disappeared 14 weeks after infection, and were statistically significant only in one of two experiments.
Endothelin-Induced cyclooxygenase-dependent superoxide generation contributes to K+ channel functional impairment after brain injury.	This study determined if endothelin (ET-1) generates superoxide anion (O2-) in a cyclooxygenase-dependent manner and if such production contributes to impairment of dilation to activators of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) and calcium-sensitive K+ (Kca) channels following fluid percussion brain injury (FPI) in newborn pigs equipped with closed cranial windows. Superoxide dismutase (SOD)-inhibitable nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) reduction was determined as an index of O2- generation. Under non-brain injury conditions, topical ET-1 (10(-10) M, the concentration present in CSF following FPI) increased SOD-inhibitable NBT reduction from 1 +/- 1 to 17 +/- 3 pmol/mm2. Indomethacin, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, blunted such NBT reduction (1 +/- 1 to 4 +/- 1 pmol/mm2), while the ET-1 antagonist BQ123 blocked NBT reduction. BQ123 and indomethacin also blunted the NBT reduction observed after FPI. Under non-brain injury conditions, ET-1 (10(-10) M) coadministered with the KATP and Kca channel agonists cromakalim and NS1619 (10-8, 10(-6) M) diminished dilation to these K+ channel agonists, while indomethacin partially prevented such impairment (13 +/- 1 and 23 +/- 1 vs. 2 +/- 1 and 6 +/- 1 vs. 6 +/- 1 and 14 +/- 2% for cromakalim in untreated, ET-1, and ET-1 plus indomethacin-treated piglets, respectively). Cromakalim- and NS1619-induced pial artery dilation was attenuated following FPI, while indomethacin or BQ123 preadministration partially prevented such impairment (13 +/- 1 and 23 +/- 1, sham control; 1 +/- 1 and 4 +/- 1, FPI; 8 +/- 1 and 16 +/- 3%, FPI and indomethacin-pretreated for responses to cromakalim 10(-8), 10-6 M, respectively). These data show that ET-1 increased O2- production in a cyclooxygenase-dependent manner and contributed to this production after FPI. These data also show that ET-1 blunted KATP and Kca channel-mediated cerebrovasodilation in a cyclooxygenase dependent manner. These data suggest that ET-1-induced cyclooxygenase-dependent O2- generation contributes to KATP and Kca channel function impairment after FPI.
Homogeneous cell-based fluorescence polarization assay for the direct detection of cAMP.	A fluorescence polarization-based functional assay for cyclic AMP (cAMP) production in cells has been proven effective for the detection of agonist-stimulated cAMP production in a HEK 293 recombinant cell line expressing the corticotropin-releasing factor subtype 2alpha (CRF2alpha) receptor. Assays were completed in a single well of a 384-well microplate with no transfer, separation, or wash steps incurred. The assay performance is excellent for adaptation to the high throughput screening environment in terms of speed of analysis, magnitude of displaced signal, precision, and detection limits for cAMP quantitation. Relative potencies of agonists and antagonists are maintained with respect to radiometric assays. The assay withstands up to 5% DMSO and up to 10 microM concentrations of highly colored compound. These attributes suggest that accurate assessment of drug binding can be measured using this assay.
Levosimendan is a mitochondrial K(ATP) channel opener.	Levosimendan, a new inodilator developed for the treatment of heart failure has been shown to have a vasodilatory effect via opening of K(ATP) channels in the plasma membrane of vascular smooth muscle cells. In this study, we investigated the effects of levosimendan on the mitochondrial K(ATP) channel. This compound did not influence mitochondrial transmembrane potential (DeltaPsi), and at up to 2.2 microM had no effect on the respiration rate of rat liver mitochondria, respiring on 5 mM succinate (+5 microM rotenone). A sensitive method was developed for assessing K(ATP) channel opening activity employing rat liver mitochondria, respiring only on endogenous substrates in the presence of 400 microM ATP and 1 microg oligomycin/mg mitochondrial protein. In this model, levosimendan (0.7-2.6 microM) decreased DeltaPsi by 6.5-40.4% (n=3, incubation time 15 min). This effect was dependent on the K+ concentration in the incubation medium and was abolished by the selective blocker of the mitochondrial K(ATP) channel-5-hydroxydecanoate (200 microM). Our results indicate that levosimendan opens mitochondrial K(ATP) channels.
Sildenafil inhibits agonist-evoked rat uterine contractility: influence of guanylyl cyclase inhibition.	Sildenafil shows a potent relaxant effect on corpus cavernosum smooth muscles by prolonging cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) actions. We investigated whether this inhibitory effect of sildenafil was also displayed on the uterine musculature. Isolated uteri of non-pregnant rats were used to measure the possible sildenafil-induced inhibition of contractions evoked by various oxytocic agents, viz., prostaglandin E2, oxytocin and acetylcholine. The relation of these effects to sildenafil action on cGMP was also examined, using methylene blue as a guanylyl cyclase inhibitor. Sildenafil (30 and 100 nM) was found to shift to the right the non-cumulative concentration-response curves of the test agonists in a concentration-dependent manner. The shift was accompanied by a reduction in the maximal response of the tissue to all uterine stimulants selected. Sildenafil also elicited a marked concentration-dependent increase in EC25 of prostaglandin E2, oxytocin and acetylcholine, as compared to their respective control values. Preincubation of the uterine strip with methylene blue (10 microM) reduced the inhibitory effects of sildenafil on oxytocin- and acetylcholine-evoked contractions, at submaximal concentrations of each agonist. The results suggest that sildenafil inhibits the uterotonic potentials of various oxytocic agents and that this effect could be probably related to the drug's action on cGMP.
A triglyceride-rich fat emulsion and free fatty acids but not very low density lipoproteins impair endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation.	To investigate the effects of triglycerides and free fatty acids on endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent vasorelaxation.
Potentiation of bradykinin-induced tissue plasminogen activator release by angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition.	The aim of the present study was to determine the effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibition on the local stimulated release of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) from the endothelium.
Lack of evidence for peripheral alpha(1)- adrenoceptor blockade during long-term treatment of heart failure with carvedilol.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether carvedilol's alpha(1)-adrenoceptor antagonism persists during long-term therapy of patients with congestive heart failure (CHF).
Coronary artery endothelial protection after local delivery of 17beta-estradiol during balloon angioplasty in a porcine model: a potential new pharmacologic approach to improve endothelial function.	The goal of this research was to study the effect of locally delivered 17beta-estradiol (17beta-E) during angioplasty on endothelial function after percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) at four weeks.
Adrenomedullin augments the neurohumoral response to haemorrhage in non-pregnant but not in pregnant sheep.	Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a novel peptide with actions which include reduction of arterial pressure and interaction with a number of hormone systems. In order to assess possible interactions with the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) and the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis, we have examined neurohumoral responses to hypotensive haemorrhage (15 ml/kg over 15 min) with or without co-infusions of ADM (5.5 pmol/kg per min) in six non-pregnant and eight pregnant conscious sheep. Haemorrhage induced a greater decrease in arterial pressure, but a blunted increase in heart rate in pregnant sheep. There was no significant effect of ADM on haemodynamic responses to haemorrhage in either group. In non-pregnant sheep, haemorrhage-induced activation of both RAS and HPA was significantly augmented by ADM, as indicated by greater increases in plasma renin activity (P<0.01), angiotensin II (P<0.05) and arginine vasopressin (P<0.01). In contrast, ADM did not augment these responses to haemorrhage in pregnant sheep. Rather, plasma concentrations of aldosterone (P=0.039) and adrenocorticotrophic hormone (P=0.012) were decreased by ADM. In conclusion, ADM-induced augmentation of the RAS and HPA responses to hypotensive haemorrhage is abolished in the pregnant state.
Coagulative modifications in patients with systemic sclerosis treated with iloprost or nifedipine.	This study compared iloprost and nifedipine to ascertain whether they could improve parameters of endothelial and platelet functions in the treatment of Raynaud's phenomenon secondary to systemic sclerosis. Thirteen patients affected by systemic sclerosis were treated with intravenous infusion of iloprost, and 7 patients were treated with oral nifedipine. Blood samples were taken at baseline and after 6 and 12 months of therapy to assess main serological indexes of endothelial damage, thrombin activation, fibrinolysis, as well as natural inhibitors of coagulation. After 12 months of therapy, the patients treated with iloprost had a significant decrease in thrombomodulin levels (p = 0.02) and a significant increase in tissue-plasminogen activator levels (p = 0.007), in comparison with the patients taking nifedipine (p = 0.007). Moreover, patients treated with nifedipine showed increased levels of thrombin-antithrombin complex after 12 months of therapy in comparison with baseline values (p = 0.03) and in comparison with the values of the patients treated with iloprost over the same period (p = 0.05). These preliminary results thus seem to indicate that iloprost plays an important, if at least partial, role in the protection and restoration of endothelial integrity in patients with systemic sclerosis.
Additive effects of nicorandil on coronary blood flow during continuous administration of nitroglycerin.	We examined whether patients with ischemic heart disease (IHD) should be treated with nicorandil, an adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channel opener, in addition to the regular use of nitrates.
Improvement of coronary artery endothelial dysfunction with lipid-lowering therapy: heterogeneity of segmental response and correlation with plasma-oxidized low density lipoprotein.	This study assessed coronary artery endothelial function in patients with hypercholesterolemia before and after lipid lowering, using quantitative angiography to examine the acetylcholine (Ach) response along the entire analyzable vessel.
Intrahepatic adenosine triggers a hepatorenal reflex to regulate renal sodium and water excretion.	The mechanism for water and sodium retention in liver cirrhosis is related to the disturbance in hepatic portal circulation. We hypothesize that the increases in intraportal adenosine, which occur when the portal blood flow decreases, may trigger the hepatorenal reflex to inhibit renal water and sodium excretion. In anesthetized rats, intravenous vs. intraportal adenosine-induced effect on renal water and sodium excretion was compared in normal animals and animals with hepatic or renal denervation, and in the presence of an adenosine receptor antagonist. Compared to saline infusion, intraportal adenosine (0.02 mg kg(-1) min(-1) for 1 h) infusion decreased urine flow by 51.3% (11.7 +/- 2.3 vs. 5.7 +/- 0.5 microl min(-1)) for the first 30 min and by 49% (22.8 +/- 5.4 vs. 11.6 +/- 1.5 microl min(-1)) for the second 30-min duration. Urinary sodium excretion was also decreased. Intraportal administration of an adenosine receptor antagonist (8-phenyltheophylline (8-PT), 3 mg kg(-1) bolus injection followed by 0.05 mg kg(-1) min(-1) continuous infusion), as well as liver or kidney denervation, abolished adenosine-induced inhibition. In contrast, intravenous adenosine infusion had no influence on either urine flow or sodium excretion. The data indicated that selectively increased intraportal adenosine inhibited renal water and sodium excretion. The water and sodium retention commonly seen in the hepatorenal syndrome may be related to intraportal adenosine accumulation due to the decrease in intraportal portal flow.
Free cytosolic Ca2+ recordings from myenteric neurones in multilayer intestinal preparations.	The ability to simultaneously monitor different myenteric neurones in a multilayer preparation may enhance our understanding of the enteric nervous system. Longitudinal muscle myenteric plexus preparations were mounted in recording chambers with a coverslip base and loaded with Indo-1-AM. cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i); changes were recorded at room temperature with a confocal microscope. In addition to mechanical (pressure-ring) and pharmacological (nifedipine) reduction of muscle contractions, purpose-designed software was developed to reposition regions of interest and avoid artefacts. Confocal scanning permitted optical selection of single cell layers. High K+ depolarization, used to distinguish between excitable and nonexcitable cells, caused a synchronous [Ca2+]i rise in 84.3% of the ganglion cells. Acetylcholine, substance P and serotonin (all at 10(-5) mol L(-1)) induced transient [Ca2+]i changes in subpopulations of myenteric neurones (45.1%, 42.9 and 21.9%, respectively). In addition to immediate responses to agonists, delayed [Ca2+]i changes were also recorded, suggesting the presence of both directly activated and synaptically driven neurones. Functionally identified neurones and other cells in close apposition to the ganglia (interstitial cells of Cajal) could also be studied. This study demonstrates the potential of optical Ca2+ recordings to monitor spread of activity in myenteric neurones and to study their interaction with non-neuronal targets.
Upregulation of phosphodiesterase 1A1 expression is associated with the development of nitrate tolerance.	The efficacy of nitroglycerin (NTG) as a vasodilator is limited by tolerance, which develops shortly after treatment begins. In vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), NTG is denitrated to form nitric oxide (NO), which activates guanylyl cyclase and generates cGMP. cGMP plays a key role in nitrate-induced vasodilation by reducing intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. Therefore, one possible mechanism for development of nitrate tolerance would be increased activity of the cGMP phosphodiesterase (PDE), which decreases cGMP levels.
Volume overload left ventricular hypertrophy: effects on coronary microvascular reactivity in rabbits.	The mechanisms controlling the coronary vascular responses of vessels perfusing the left ventricular (LV) myocardium that is hypertrophied from chronic volume overload are unclear. We hypothesised that endothelial function is compromised, and receptor-mediated contraction is exacerbated, in coronary resistance vessels from rabbits with LV hypertrophy compared to controls. The mitral valve of 10 rabbits was damaged surgically to cause mitral regurgitation and chronic volume overload, resulting in LV hypertrophy (LV hypertrophy rabbits). Echocardiographic assessment at 12 weeks verified that mitral regurgitation was present in LV hypertrophy but not sham-operated, weight- and age-matched animals (control rabbits; n = 17). Percentage increases from weeks 0 to 12 in LV cross-sectional area (47 +/- 7 % vs. 2 +/- 8 %), LV volume (47 +/- 14 % vs. 7 +/- 10 %) and LV mass (27 +/- 4 % vs. 3 +/- 6 %), were greater (all P < 0.05) in LV hypertrophy vs. control rabbits, respectively. At 12 weeks, coronary resistance vessel (approximately 130 microm, internal diameter) reactivity was evaluated using wire myography. Endothelium-dependent (i.e. acetylcholine, 10(-8)-10(-5) M) and -independent (i.e. sodium nitroprusside, 10(-9)-10(-4) M) relaxation, and receptor-mediated vasocontraction (i.e. endothelin-1, 10(-11)-10(-7) M) were similar between groups. However, tension development in response to nitric oxide synthase inhibition (10(-6) M N (G)-monomethyl-L-arginine) was greater (P < 0.05) in LV hypertrophy compared to control rabbits. These results indicate that while coronary resistance vessel function is similar between groups, our estimate of basal nitric oxide production is greater in vessels from LV hypertrophy than control rabbits.
Nitric oxide reduces the palmitoylation of rat myelin proteolipid protein by an indirect mechanism.	Brain slices from 20-day-old rats were incubated with [3H]palmitate for 2 hours in the absence or presence of the NO-donors S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine (SNAP), ethyl-2-[hydroxyimino]-5-nitro-3-hexeneamide (NOR-3), 4-phenyl-3-furoxan carbonitrile (PFC) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP). Each of these drugs reduced the incorporation of [3H]palmitate into myelin proteolipid protein (PLP) in a concentration-dependent manner, SNP being the most active. The effect of SNAP was prevented by the NO-scavenger PTIO (2-phenyl-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl-3-oxide). Furthermore, decayed-SNAP, sodium nitrite and N- nitrosopyrrolidine were inactive, suggesting that free NO and/or some of its direct oxidation products are the active molecular species. The amount of fatty acids bound to PLP and the rate of deacylation were unaffected by NO. Although NO diminished the number of thiols in brain and myelin proteins, with the formation of both nitrosothiols and disulfides, these changes did not parallel those in PLP acylation. In contrast, NO was effective at reducing the palmitoylation of brain and myelin lipids, and this effect along with that of PLP, was ascribed to a decrease in palmitoyl-CoA levels. The NO-induced reduction in acyl-CoA concentration was due to the decline in ATP levels, while the amount of [3H]palmitate incorporated into the tissue, the activity of palmitoyl-CoA ligase and palmitoyl-CoA hydrolase, and the concentration of CoASH were unaltered by the drugs. Experiments with endogenously-synthesized [18O]fatty acids confirmed that NO affects predominantly the ATP-dependent palmitoylation of PLP. In conclusion, the inhibitory action of NO on the fatty acylation of PLP is indirect and caused by energy depletion.
Inhibitory effects of melatonin on vascular reactivity: possible role of vasoactive mediators.	Melatonin (MEL), the principal hormone of the vertebral pineal gland, elicits several neurobiological effects. However, the effects of MEL on vascular tissues are still vague. The first goal of this study was to investigate the effect of MEL on isolated rabbit aortic rings and its role in the vascular reactivity to contractile agents, noradrenaline (NA) and phenylephrine (PHE) and relaxant agents (acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside). In addition, the levels of nitric oxide (NO), cGMP, total calcium, lipid peroxides, superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione (GSH) were also investigated in tissue homogenates of rabbit aortic rings preincubated (20 min) in MEL with and without contractile agents. Our results revealed that MEL has an endothelium-dependent vaso-relaxant effect and potentiated significantly the vaso-relaxant effect of acetylcholine. Moreover, MEL (10(-4) M) had a significant inhibitory effect on the contractile responses of aortic rings to both NA and PHE. In comparison with control tissue rings, the levels of lipid peroxides were significantly increased while the levels of GSH, and SOD activities were significantly decreased in tissue homogenates of aortic rings pre-incubated (20 min) in NA or PHE. In addition, the levels of NO and cGMP were significantly lower in tissue rings pre-treated with NA and PHE, respectively. Also, the levels of total calcium were significantly increased only in tissue rings pre-treated with NA. The levels of lipid peroxides were significantly decreased, while the levels of GSH, NO and cGMP and SOD activities were significantly increased in tissue homogenates of aortic rings incubated (20 min) in MEL (10(-4) M) in comparison to ring tissues incubated in NA or PHE alone. In aortic rings incubated in MEL+PHE, the levels of lipid peroxides were significantly lower while the levels of GSH and cGMP and SOD activities were significantly higher than their levels in ring tissues incubated in PHE. In aortic rings incubated in MEL+NA, the levels of lipid peroxides and total calcium were significantly lower while the levels of NO were significantly higher than their levels in ring tissues incubated in NA alone. We conclude that MEL has an endothelium dependent vasorelaxant effect and potentiates the endothelium dependent vasorelaxation induced by acetylcholine. MEL inhibits the contractile responses of aortic rings to NA and PHE. These effects may be, in part, due to re-balancing the pro-oxidant/antioxidants system, lowered calcium content and elevated NO and cGMP levels in vascular tissue.
Delayed inflammation in rat meninges: implications for migraine pathophysiology.	Nitric oxide (NO) has been implicated in migraine pathogenesis based on the delayed development of typical migraine headache 4-6 h after infusing the NO donor nitroglycerin [glyceryl trinitrate (GTN)] to migraineurs. Furthermore, inhibiting the synthesis of NO by treatment with a NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor attenuates spontaneous migraine headaches in 67% of subjects. Because NO has been linked to inflammation and cytokine expression, we investigated the delayed consequences of brief GTN infusion (30 min) on the development of meningeal inflammation in a rat model using doses relevant to the human model. We found dose-dependent Type II NOS [inducible NOS (iNOS)] mRNA upregulation in dura mater beginning at 2 h and an increase in the corresponding protein expression at 4, 6 and 10 h after infusion. Type II NOS immunoreactivity was expressed chiefly within resident meningeal macrophages. Consistent with development of a delayed inflammatory response, we detected induction of interleukin 1beta in dura mater at 2 and 6 h and increased interleukin 6 in dural macrophages and in rat cerebrospinal fluid at 6 h after GTN infusion. Myeloperoxidase-positive cells were rarely found. Leakage of plasma proteins from dural blood vessels was first detected 4 h after GTN infusion, and this was suppressed by administering a specific Type II NOS inhibitor [L-N(6)-(1-iminoethyl)-lysine (L-NIL)]. In addition to cytokine induction, macrophage iNOS upregulation and oedema formation after GTN infusion, dural mast cells exhibited granular changes consistent with secretion at 4 and 6 h. Because iNOS was expressed in dural macrophages following topical GTN, and in the spleen after intravenous injection, the data suggest that the inflammatory response is mediated by direct actions on the dura and does not develop secondary to events within the brain. Our findings point to the importance of new gene expression and cytokine expression as fundamental to the delayed response following GTN infusion, and support the hypothesis that a similar response develops in human meninges after GTN challenge.
Usefulness of flow-mediated dilation of the brachial artery and/or the intima-media thickness of the carotid artery in predicting coronary narrowing in patients suspected of having coronary artery disease.	It has been reported that flow-mediated dilation (FMD) of the brachial artery and the carotid intima-media thickness (IMT), markers of atherosclerosis, are altered in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD), but it is still not known if the presence of CAD can be detected using these markers. We examined whether the presence of CAD can be detected by FMD of the brachial artery and/or IMT. Eighty-one patients who underwent coronary angiography for the first time were enrolled. In each patient, brachial artery diameter responses to FMD and the administration of nitroglycerin spray, and carotid IMT were measured using high-resolution ultrasound (10 MHz) before coronary angiography. CAD was defined as >50% stenosis of a major coronary artery. Fifty-six patients had CAD. FMD was lower and IMT was greater in patients with CAD (FMD, 2.9 +/- 0.2% vs 9.4 +/- 0.5%; IMT, 1.09 +/- 0.05 vs 0.79 +/- 0.04 mm, both p <0.0001). Nitroglycerin-induced dilation did not differ in the 2 groups. Multivariate analysis showed that FMD was the only predictor of the presence of CAD (p = 0.0026). Receiver-operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that a cutoff value for FMD for detecting the presence of CAD was 6%, with a sensitivity of 0.93 (52 of 56) and a specificity of 0.88 (22 of 25). These findings suggest that FMD but not IMT may be used to detect the presence of CAD in patients with suspected CAD.
Progressive action potential duration shortening and the conversion from atrial flutter to atrial fibrillation in the isolated canine right atrium.	We sought to evaluate the effects of progressive shortening of the action potential duration (APD) on atrial wave front stability.
Regulation of SP-B and SP-C secretion in rat type II cells in primary culture.	Secretion of lung surfactant phospholipids is a highly regulated process. A variety of physiological and pharmacological agents stimulate surfactant phospholipid secretion in isolated type II cells. Although the lipid and hydrophobic protein components of surfactant are believed to be secreted together by exocytosis of lamellar body contents, regulation of surfactant protein (SP) B and SP-C secretion has not previously been examined. To address the question of whether secretion of SP-B and SP-C is stimulated by the same agonists that stimulate phospholipid secretion, we measured secretion of all four SPs under the same conditions used to measure phosphatidylcholine secretion. Freshly isolated rat type II cells were cultured overnight and exposed to known surfactant phospholipid secretagogues for 2.5 h, after which the amounts of SP-A, SP-B, SP-C, and SP-D in the medium were measured with immunoblotting. Secretion of SP-B and SP-C was stimulated three- to fivefold by terbutaline, 5'-(N-ethylcarboxyamido)adenosine, ATP, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate, and ionomycin. Similar to their effects on phospholipid secretion, the stimulatory effects of the agonists were abolished by Ro 31-8220. Secretion of SP-A and SP-D was not stimulated by the secretagogues tested. We conclude that secretion of the phospholipid and hydrophobic protein components of surfactant is similarly regulated, whereas secretion of the hydrophilic proteins is regulated differently.
Pulmonary microvascular and perivascular interstitial geometry during development of mild hydraulic edema.	To study pulmonary arteriolar vasomotion in control conditions and in the transition to hydraulic edema, changes in subpleural pulmonary arteriolar diameter and perivascular interstitial volume were evaluated in anesthetized spontaneously breathing rabbits. Images of subpleural pulmonary microvessels were recorded in control conditions and for up to 180 min during a 0.5 ml x kg(-1) x min(-1) intravenous saline infusion through an intact parietal pleural window. Images were digitized and analyzed with a semiautomatic procedure to determine vessel diameter and perivascular interstitial thickness from which interstitial fluid volume was derived. In control vessels, the diameter of approximately 30-, approximately 50-, and approximately 80-microm arterioles and the perivascular interstitial thickness were fairly stable. During infusion, the diameter increased maximally by 20% in approximately 30 microm vessels, was unchanged in approximately 50 microm vessels, and decreased by 25% in approximately 80-microm arterioles; the perivascular interstitial volume increased by 54% only around 30-microm microvessels. In papaverine-treated rabbits, all arterioles dilated and a larger increase in perivascular interstitial thickness was observed. The data suggest that the opposite vasomotor behavior of 30- and 80-microm arterioles during development of mild edema may represent a local specific response of the pulmonary microcirculation to reduce capillary pressure in the face of an increased transendothelial fluid filtration, thus counteracting progression toward severe edema.
Inhibition of human mast cell activation with the novel selective adenosine A(2B) receptor antagonist 3-isobutyl-8-pyrrolidinoxanthine (IPDX)(2).	The antiasthmatic drug enprofylline was the first known selective, though not potent, A(2B) antagonist. On the basis of structure-activity relationships (SARs) of xanthine derivatives, we designed a novel selective adenosine A(2B) receptor antagonist, 3-isobutyl-8-pyrrolidinoxanthine (IPDX), with potency greater than that of enprofylline. IPDX displaced [3H]ZM241385 ([3H]4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)[1,2,4]triazolo[2,3-a]-[1,3,5]triazin-5-ylamino]ethyl)phenol) from human A(2B) adenosine receptors with a K(i) value of 470 +/- 2 nM and inhibited A(2B)-dependent cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation in human erythroleukemia (HEL) cells with a K(B) value of 625 +/- 71 nM. We found that IPDX was more selective than enprofylline toward human A(2B) receptors. It was 38-, 55-, and 82-fold more selective for human A(2B) than for human A(1) (K(i) value of 24 +/- 8 microM), human A(2A) (K(B) value of 36 +/- 8 microM), and human A(3) (K(i) value of 53 +/- 10 microM) adenosine receptors, respectively. IPDX inhibited NECA (5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine)-induced interleukin-8 secretion in human mast cells (HMC-1) with a potency close to that determined for A(2B)-mediated cAMP accumulation in HEL cells, thus confirming the role of A(2B) adenosine receptors in mediating human mast cell activation. Since adenosine triggers bronchoconstriction in asthmatic patients through human mast cell activation, IPDX may become a basis for the development of new antiasthmatic drugs with improved properties compared with those of enprofylline. Our data demonstrate that IPDX can be used as a tool to differentiate between A(2B) and other adenosine receptor-mediated responses.
Effects of nebivolol on human platelet aggregation.	It has been documented that beta-adrenergic antagonists can influence platelet aggregation by a mechanism independent of their ability to antagonize beta-adrenoceptors. Nebivolol, a selective beta1-adrenergic receptor antagonist with additional hemodynamic effects, is able to vasodilate human forearm vasculature by acting on the L-arginine/nitric oxide pathway. Constitutive nitric oxide synthase is present also in human platelets, resulting in the formation of nitric oxide, an endogenous inhibitor of platelet aggregation. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of nebivolol on platelet aggregation and in particular to determine the involvement of the platelet L-arginine/nitric oxide pathway. Propranolol, a nonselective beta-adrenergic antagonist, and carvedilol, a beta-blocker with vasodilating properties, were compared with nebivolol on platelet activity. Plasma from healthy male subjects was used. Platelet aggregation was achieved with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) (3 microM) and collagen (1 microg/ml), using the Born turbidimetric method to measure platelet aggregation. Our results showed that nebivolol, propranolol, and carvedilol all had an inhibitory effect on both ADP- and collagen-induced platelet aggregation. Nebivolol exhibited the greatest inhibition effect on platelet aggregation. The mechanism responsible for the inhibitory effect of nebivolol appeared to involve a nitric oxide-dependent pathway. Indeed, L-arginine augmented the inhibitory effects of nebivolol on platelet aggregation induced by collagen and ADP. Furthermore, the inhibitory effect of nebivolol on platelet aggregation was reduced in the presence of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA). In conclusion, we have demonstrated in this study that nebivolol's mechanism of platelet aggregation inhibition differs from that of other beta-adrenergic antagonists by being partially dependent on nitric oxide production.
Endothelial NO and prostanoid involvement in newborn and juvenile pig pial arteriolar vasomotor responses.	Specific cerebrovascular dilatory responses in newborn piglets are entirely prostanoid dependent, but require both nitric oxide (NO) and prostanoids in juveniles. We examined endothelial dependency and mechanisms of NO- and prostanoid-mediated cerebrovascular responses in anesthetized newborn and juvenile pigs implanted with closed cranial windows. Light/dye endothelial injury inhibited newborn and juvenile hypercapnic and bradykinin (BK) responses and inhibited dilation to acetylcholine in juveniles. Iloprost and NO act permissively in restoring light/dye inhibited newborn and juvenile responses, respectively. Differences in sensitivity to iloprost and sodium nitroprusside were not observed. Juvenile (not newborn) hypercapnic and BK cerebrovascular responses were sensitive to soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibition. Pial arteriolar diameter and cortical production of prostacyclin, cAMP, and cGMP in response to BK were measured under control conditions, after treatment with indomethacin and/or N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). Indomethacin inhibited BK responses in newborns. Juvenile responses were inhibited by L-NAME, and mildly by indomethacin. Cortical 6-keto-PGF(1 alpha), cAMP, and cGMP increased in response to BK in both age groups. Newborn cerebrovascular responses are largely NO independent, but NO becomes more important with maturation.
Increased inactivation of nitric oxide is involved in impaired coronary flow reserve in heart failure.	Recent evidence suggests that increased inactivation of endothelium-derived nitric oxide (NO) by oxygen free radical (OFR) formation is involved in the pathogenesis of endothelial dysfunction in heart failure (HF). However, it is unclear whether increased OFR limits coronary flow reserve in HF. To test this hypothesis, we examined the effects of antioxidant therapy on coronary flow reserve in a canine model of tachycardia-induced HF. The flow reserve (percent increase in coronary blood flow) to adenosine or to 20-s ischemia was less and OFR formation (electron-spin resonance spectroscopy) in myocardial tissues was greater in HF dogs than in controls. Immunohistochemical staining of 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal, an OFR-induced lipid peroxide, was detected in coronary microvessels of HF dogs. Intracoronary infusion of a cell-permeable OFR scavenger, tiron, suppressed OFR formation and improved the vasodilating capacity to adenosine or brief ischemia in HF dogs but not in controls. A NO synthesis inhibitor, N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), diminished the beneficial effects of tiron in HF dogs. Vasodilation to sodium nitroprusside was similar between control and HF dogs, and no change in its response was noted with tiron or tiron + L-NMMA in either group. In summary, antioxidant treatment with tiron improved coronary flow reserve by increasing NO bioactivity in HF dogs. Thus increased OFR formation may impair coronary flow reserve in HF by reducing NO bioactivity.
Nutritive blood flow affects microdialysis O/I ratio for [(14)C]ethanol and (3)H(2)O in perfused rat hindlimb.	Changes in the microdialysis outflow-to-inflow (O/I) ratio for [(14)C]ethanol and (3)H(2)O were determined in the perfused rat hindlimb after increases and decreases in nutritive flow mediated by the vasoconstrictors norepinephrine (NE) and serotonin (5-HT), respectively. Microdialysis probes (containing 10 mM [(14)C]ethanol and (3)H(2)O pumped at 1 or 2 microl/min) were inserted through the calf of the rat. Hindlimb perfusion flow rate was varied from 6 to 56 ml x min(-1) x 100 g(-1) in the presence of NE, 5-HT, or saline vehicle. The O/I ratios for both tracers were determined at each perfusion flow rate, as was perfusion pressure, oxygen uptake (a surrogate indicator of nutritive flow), and lactate release. Both tracers showed a decreased O/I ratio as hindlimb perfusion flow was increased, with [(14)C]ethanol being higher than (3)H(2)O. NE decreased the O/I ratio compared with vehicle, and 5-HT increased it for both tracers and both microdialysis flow rates. We conclude that the microdialysis O/I ratio, while able to detect changes in total flow, is also sensitive to changes in nutritive and nonnutritive flow, where the latter still extracts tracer, but less than the former.
Changes in vasoreactivity of rat pulmonary artery after 7 d tail-suspension.	To clarify the effects of simulated microgravity on the local regulating function of the pulmonary circulation.
Effect of obesity on endothelium-dependent, nitric oxide-mediated vasodilation in normotensive individuals and patients with essential hypertension.	The purpose of this study was to determine the interdependent and independent effects of hypertension and obesity on endothelial function in humans. We evaluated the forearm blood flow (FBF) response to acetylcholine, an endothelium-dependent vasodilator, and isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN), an endothelium-independent vasodilator, in 16 lean and 12 obese normotensive individuals and the 18 lean and 15 obese hypertensive patients with no history of smoking, hypercholesterolemia, diabetes mellitus, or renal dysfunction. The FBF was measured using a mercury-filled Silastic strain-gauge plethysmograph. The systolic and diastolic blood pressures (BP) and forearm vascular resistance were significantly greater in hypertensive patients than in the normotensive individuals. Insulin resistance, determined by a homeostatic model assessment (HOMA), was significantly greater in the obese group than in the lean group (3.59 +/- 1.68 v 1.91 +/- 1.12, P < .01). There was no significant difference in the HOMA index between normotensive and hypertensive subjects regardless of weight. The response of FBF to acetylcholine was greatest in lean normotensive individuals and least in obese hypertensive patients (40.5 +/- 8.5 and 10.4 +/- 2.8 mL/min/100 mL of tissue, P < .001 v other groups). The FBF response was similar in obese normotensive individuals and lean hypertensive patients (24.1 +/- 7.9 and 19.3 +/- 3.2 mL/min/100 mL of tissue). The vasodilatory effect of ISDN was similar in all four groups. Multiple regression analysis revealed that the maximal FBF response to acetylcholine correlated independently with age (P = .043), obesity (P = .012), HOMA index (P = .002), and mean BP (P < .001). These findings suggest that obesity and hypertension are independently involved in abnormal endothelium-dependent vasodilation by attenuated nitric oxide production.
Protective effects of nitroglycerin-induced preconditioning mediated by calcitonin gene-related peptide in rat small intestine.	Previous studies of myocardium have shown that ischemic preconditioning could be mimicked by nitroglycerin through stimulating the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). The present study examined whether nitroglycerin could also provide a preconditioning stimulus in the peripheral vascular bed (the anse intestinalis of rat), and whether endogenous CGRP is involved in this process. The model of in situ perfusion was prepared with rat small intestine. One hour of ischemia and 15 min of reperfusion caused a significant impairment of intestinal morphology and an increase in the release of both lactate dehydrogenase and malondialdehyde. Pretreatment with nitroglycerin, 10(-7), 3 x 10(-7), 10(-6) M for 5 min produced a significant improvement of intestinal tissue morphology and a decrease in the release of both lactate dehydrogenase and malondialdehyde. However, the protection afforded by nitroglycerin was abolished by CGRP-(8-37), a selective CGRP acceptor antagonist. Pretreatment with capsaicin, which specifically depletes the transmitter content of sensory nerves, also abolished the protection by nitroglycerin. In addition, the content of CGRP-like immunoreactivity in the effluent was increased during nitroglycerin perfusion. On the other hand, the results from the in vivo experiment showed that nitroglycerin (i.v. 0.13 mg/kg) injected 5 min before prolonged ischemia could provide significant protection against the injury caused by 30-min ischemia and 1-h reperfusion in the rat small intestine, but would also cause a significant increase in the levels of CGRP in the plasma. All these findings suggest that nitroglycerin-induced preconditioning is related to stimulation of CGRP release in the rat small intestine.
Nitric oxide modulates cerebral blood flow stimulation by acetazolamide in the rat cortex: a laser Doppler scanning study.	The involvement of nitric oxide (NO) in cerebral blood flow (CBF) stimulation by acetazolamide was studied in anaesthetised, mechanically ventilated Wistar rats. CBF was monitored by laser Doppler scanning. Acetazolamide induced a long-lasting significant rCBF-increase. Application of NG-Nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA), an inhibitor of all NO synthetases (NOS), prevented CBF stimulation by acetazolamide. Continuous infusion of the exogenous NO donor SIN-1 (3-morpholinosydnonimine) suppressed L-NNA induced increases of mean arterial blood pressure without effect on rCBF in comparison to baseline. Additional acetazolamide injection then again caused a significant increase of rCBF in spite of NOS-inhibition. We thus conclude that NO is involved in acetazolamide-induced CBF stimulation. The mere continuous presence of NO is sufficient to re-establish the acetazolamide-response in spite of NOS-inhibition. These data suggest that NO acts rather as a modulator than as a mediator of the acetazolamide-induced CBF response.
Effect of vasodilator hydralazine on tumor microvascular random flow and blood volume as measured by intravoxel incoherent motion (IVIM) weighted MRI in conjunction with Gd-DTPA-Albumin enhanced MRI.	We studied the effect of hydralazine on tumor blood volume fraction and microvascular random flow velocity magnitude by IVIM weighted MRI in conjunction with dynamic Gd-DTPA-Albumin enhanced MRI. Blood volume fraction maps were obtained from the dynamic Gd-DTPA-Albumin enhanced MRI measurements. The average blood volume fraction of R3230 AC adenocarcinoma decreased from 0.125 +/- 0.022 (s.d.) ml/g to 0.105 +/- 0.018 (s.d.) ml/g (p < 0.001) after the administration of hydralazine at a dose of 5 mg/kg. The microvascular random flow velocity magnitude maps were obtained from the IVIM weighted MRI signals by utilizing the Gd-DTPA-Albumin measured blood volume fractions as an input in the compartmental modeling analysis of the IVIM weighted MRI signal. The random-directional microvascular flow induced MRI signal attenuation was separated from the molecular diffusion induced signal attenuation. Flow induced attenuation was more significant after the administration of hydralazine. The mean microvascular random flow velocity magnitude increased from 0.52 +/- 0.15 (s.d.) mm/sec to 0.73 +/- 0.23 (s.d.) mm/sec (p < 0.05) in the presence of the above blood volume fraction change.
Low-dose estrogen supplementation improves vascular function in hypogonadal men.	It is widely accepted that in women, estrogens provide protection against the development of cardiovascular disease. However, the cardiovascular role of estrogens in men remains uncertain, despite preliminary evidence that endogenous estrogens produced by aromatization of androgenic precursors are of physiological importance. Hypogonadal men have very low levels of circulating estrogen. We studied the responsiveness of forearm resistance arteries to vasoconstrictor and vasodilator agents in 12 men (mean+/-SEM age, 68.7+/-2.6 years) rendered hypogonadal as a result of treatment for prostatic cancer, before and after 8 weeks of estrogen supplementation (estradiol valerate 1 mg daily; n=7) or placebo (n=5). Forearm blood flow was measured by venous occlusion plethysmography, and vasoactive agents were infused through a brachial artery cannula in doses that did not affect blood pressure or heart rate. Estrogen supplementation was well tolerated, with no adverse effects. After estrogen treatment, mean estradiol levels increased from <30 to 308+/-65 pmol/L, and both systolic and diastolic blood pressures were reduced. HDL cholesterol levels increased significantly, and vasoconstrictor responses to the NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (1, 2, 4 micromol/min) were enhanced. Vasoconstrictor responses to angiotensin II (8, 16, 32 ng/min) were markedly attenuated by estrogen treatment, as were vasoconstrictor responses to norepinephrine (25, 50, 100 ng/min). Estrogen did not alter the vasodilator responses to acetylcholine (9.25, 18.5, 37 microgram/min) or to the endothelium-independent agent sodium nitroprusside (1.6 microgram/min). Responses to all vasoactive agents were unchanged after administration of placebo. We conclude that low-dose estrogen supplementation in hypogonadal men is well tolerated, lowers blood pressure, and may affect vascular reactivity in a manner that is potentially beneficial, through several mechanisms, including enhancement of basal NO release and attenuation of vasoconstrictor responses to angiotensin II and norepinephrine. These findings suggest the need to consider a possible clinical role for estrogenic compounds in cardiovascular risk reduction in some groups of men.
Does leptin stimulate nitric oxide to oppose the effects of sympathetic activation?	Leptin decreases appetite and increases sympathetic nerve activity and arterial pressure. Recent reports suggest that leptin may also have peripheral vasodilator actions that would tend to reduce arterial pressure. We tested the hypothesis that the direct vascular actions of leptin oppose sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction. We evaluated the effects of intravenous leptin (1 mg/kg over 3 hours) on arterial pressure and mesenteric, hindlimb, and renal blood flows in conscious rats. We then tested whether blockade of nitric oxide or the sympathetic nervous system would unmask a pressor or depressor effect of leptin, consistent with direct vascular actions. Acute intravenous administration of leptin alone did not change arterial pressure or regional blood flows. This was despite a significant increase in lumbar sympathetic nerve activity. Administration of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester significantly increased arterial pressure and caused vasoconstriction. However, leptin did not have any significant effect on hemodynamics in the presence of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester despite continued sympathoactivation. alpha-Adrenoceptor blockade with prazosin alone or combined with yohimbine significantly decreased arterial pressure and caused vasodilation. Again, leptin did not have any effect on arterial pressure or regional blood flow in the presence of sympathetic blockade. These data demonstrate that leptin does not have vasodilator actions in vivo at concentrations that are sufficient to increase sympathetic nerve activity. The absence of a pressor effect of leptin-induced sympathetic activation may merely reflect the brief duration of leptin administration. These data support the concept that the chronic hemodynamic actions of leptin are likely to be related to sympathetic activation.
Value of linsidomin in assessing myocardial viability with thallium-201 SPECT.	Myocardial viability can be assessed with rest/24 h redistribution (201)Tl myocardial single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). The intravenous injection of vasodilators induces an early redistribution of (201)Tl and shortens the total examination time. The aim of this study was to compare the images after injection of linsidomin with the 24 h images. We studied 51 consecutive patients (38 males, 13 females), aged 66+/-11 years, referred for assessment of myocardial viability after acute myocardial infarction. SPECT acquisition at rest (30 projections over 180 degrees, 30 s per projection) was performed 20 min after injection of (201)Tl. A second acquisition (same parameters) was performed 2 min after intravenous injection of linsidomin (2 mg). A delayed acquisition was performed on the following day (50 s per step). Myocardial perfusion at rest was normal in 111 of 255 segments. For the 144 other segments, 24 h images were similar to the images acquired after the injection of linsidomin in 94% of cases (136 of 144 segments). The 24 h images showed partial redistribution that was not present after linsidomin in only eight segments (6%). Injection of linsidomin after rest acquisition can provide a reliable and more rapid assessment of myocardial viability. This very simple protocol (rest/linsidomin (201)Tl myocardial SPECT) can be performed in less than 1 h.
Cardiovascular effects of colforsin daropate hydrochloride for acute heart failure after open heart surgery]	Colforsin daropate hydrochloride (COL) is a novel drug for the treatment of acute heart failure. COL stimulates adenylate cyclase directly and produces positive inotropic and vasodilator effects accompanied by the increase in cellular cAMP. We investigated its cardiovascular effects for 9 patients who showed low cardiac index (< 3.0 l/min/m2) after open-heart surgery in ICU. After 2 or 3 hours from administration of COL, heart rate and cardiac index increased, and pulmonary artery pressure and central venous pressure decreased significantly, but blood pressure and systemic venous oxygen saturation did not show significant change. In conclusion, COL improved hemodynamics through positive inotropic and vasodilator effects without hypotension. We should investigate more proper usage of this drug to avoid such side effects as tachycardia and arrhythmia, which occurred in some cases.
No improvement in perfusion and oxygenation of experimental tumors upon application of vasodilator drugs.	The oxygen deficiency seen in solid tumors is predominantly caused by an insufficient O2 supply as a result of inadequate tumor perfusion. The aim of this study was to analyze whether a number of vasodilator drugs might be suitable to increase tumor perfusion and consequently improve the oxygenation status of experimental tumors. Rats with s.c. DS-sarcomas were treated with either Na+-nitroprusside (7-25 microg x min(-1) x kg(-1) BW) or nifedipine (10 microg x min(-1) x kg(-1) BW). Red blood cell (RBC) flux was assessed continuously using laser-Doppler flowmetry and mean tumor pO2 was measured polarographically using O2-sensitive catheter electrodes. Systemic application of the vasodilator drugs resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in MABP. In parallel, tumor perfusion was reduced linearly with falling MABP resulting in a decrease in RBC flux by approximately 40%. Resistance to flow did not change during the infusion indicating that these drugs have no impact on tumor vessel diameter. With decreasing tumor perfusion, tumor pO2 was reduced parallel to the MABP drop. This effect was more distinct with Na+-nitroprusside than with nifedipine due to the more pronounced fall in MABP. The vasodilator drugs studied are not suitable for dilation of tumor vessels either because the tumor vasculature lacks contractile wall elements or because the vessels are already maximally dilated.
Endothelium-dependent vasodilatory effect of vitisin C, a novel plant oligostilbene from Vitis plants (Vitaceae), in rabbit aorta.	We investigated the pharmacological properties of vitisin C, a novel plant oligostilbene from Vitis plants. Vitisin C (1-10 microM) dose-dependently inhibited the contractile responses of endothelium-intact rabbit thoracic aorta induced by phenylephrine (1 microM). These inhibitory effects were abolished in the presence of N (G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 300 microM), a potent inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, but not atropine (1 microM), a non-selective muscarinic cholinoceptor antagonist. In endothelium-denuded rabbit aorta, vitisin C was ineffective in attenuating phenylephrine-induced contraction. Moreover, vitisin C (10 microM) increased cGMP production in endothelium-intact, but not endothelium-denuded, aorta, and this increase was abolished in the presence of L-NAME (300 microM). To assess Ca(2+) movement across the endothelial cell membrane induced by vitisin C, we further investigated (45)Ca(2+) influx into cultured rabbit aortic endothelial cells in the presence of vitisin C (3 microM), carbachol (1 microM) or A23187 (10 nM). Vitisin C and carbachol significantly enhanced (45)Ca(2+) influx, which was inhibited by nifedipine (10 microM), a blocker of L-type Ca(2+) channels. In the presence of SK&F96365, a blocker of receptor-operated Ca(2+) channels, (45)Ca(2+) influx induced by carbachol was significantly inhibited, whereas that induced by vitisin C was not affected. On the other hand, A23187 enhanced (45)Ca(2+) influx in the presence and absence of nifedipine and SK&F96365. These results suggest that vitisin C evokes endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation through enhancing nitric oxide release, which is facilitated by Ca(2+) influx into endothelial cells via nifedipine-sensitive Ca(2+) channels.
Residual C-peptide secretion and endothelial function in patients with Type II diabetes.	Recent studies have demonstrated that C-peptide exerts beneficial effects on endothelial function. To investigate the relationship between residual pancreatic C-peptide secretion and endothelial function in patients with well controlled or poorly controlled Type II diabetes, we studied 100 patients with Type II diabetes that were free from diabetic neuropathy. In all patients, insulin resistance, residual pancreatic C-peptide secretion, endothelial function and oxidative stress were investigated using the homoeostasis model assessment (HOMA) index, glucagon bolus test, brachial reactivity, Trolox equivalent antioxidant capacity (TEAC) and thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS). The patients were categorized into quartiles on the basis of plasma HbA(1c) (glycated haemoglobin) concentration. Analysis of the data showed significant increases in plasma glucose concentration, HOMA index, microalbuminuria and TBARS, and significant decreases in plasma C-peptide, AUC (area under the curve) plasma C-peptide and TEAC, through the different quartiles (from the lowest to the highest HbA(1c) concentration). With regard to parameters of endothelial function, changes in diameter showed a significant declining trend through the different quartiles. Endothelial-dependent changes in diameter were independently and significantly associated with AUC C-peptide levels, TEAC and TBARS. In conclusion, our study demonstrated that patients with Type II diabetes with good residual C-peptide secretion are better protected from endothelial dysfunction that those with poor C-peptide secretion.
Intramuscular gene transfer of FGF-2 attenuates endothelial dysfunction and inhibits intimal hyperplasia of vein grafts in poor-runoff limbs of rabbit.	We previously demonstrated that sustained disturbance of endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation and poor distal runoff in ischemic limbs were critical factors affecting the neointimal development of autologous vein grafts (VGs). Also, we recently showed the superior therapeutic potential of basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF/FGF-2) boosted by the recombinant Sendai virus (SeV) for severe limb ischemia compared with that of vascular endothelial growth factor. Here, the effect of FGF-2 on neointimal hyperplasia of VGs was examined in a rabbit model of poor-runoff limbs. Two weeks after initial surgery for the induction of poor-runoff, SeV-expressing human FGF-2 (SeV-hFGF2) or that encoding firefly luciferase (109 plaque-forming units/head) was injected into the thigh and calf muscle. At that time, the femoral vein was implanted in the femoral artery in an end-to-end manner in some groups. FGF-2 gene-transferred limbs demonstrated significantly increased blood flow assessed not only by laser Doppler flow image but also by ultrasonic transit-time flowmeter (USTF). USTF also showed a significant increase in the blood flow ratio of the deep femoral artery to external iliac artery, indicating that collateral flow was significantly restored in the thigh muscles (P < 0.01). Reduction of neointimal hyperplasia was also observed in the VGs treated by SeV-hFGF2; these grafts demonstrated significant restoration of endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation. These findings thus extend the indications of therapeutic angiogenesis using SeV-hFGF2 to include not only limb salvage but also prevention of late graft failure.
Attenuation of activity-induced increases in cerebellar blood flow in mice lacking neuronal nitric oxide synthase.	We used mice deficient in neuronal nitric oxide (NO) synthase (nNOS) to specifically investigate the role of neuronal NO in the increase of cerebellar blood flow (BFcrb) produced by neural activation. Crus II, a region of the cerebellar cortex that receives trigeminal sensory afferents, was activated by low-intensity stimulation of the upper lip (5-25 V, 4-16 Hz) in anesthetized mice. BFcrb was recorded in Crus II by using a laser-Doppler flow probe. In wild-type mice, upper lip stimulation increased BFcrb in the Crus II by 28 +/- 3% (25 V, 10 Hz, n = 6). The rise in BFcrb was attenuated by 73 +/- 3% in nNOS-/- mice (P < 0.05, n = 6). The increases in BFcrb produced by superfusion of Crus II with glutamate or by systemic administration of harmaline were also attenuated in nNOS-/- mice (P < 0.05). In contrast, the increases in BFcrb produced by topical superfusion of Crus II with acetylcholine or adenosine and the increase in BFcrb produced by hypercapnia were not affected (P > 0.05). The field potentials evoked in the Crus II by upper lip stimulation did not differ between wild-type and nNOS-null mice. These data provide the first nonpharmacological evidence that nNOS-derived NO is a critical link between glutamatergic synaptic activity and blood flow in the activated cerebellum.
The effect of a mixed meal on endothelium-dependent vasodilation is dependent on fat content in healthy humans.	Impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation (EDV) is an early marker of atherosclerosis. The aim of the present study was to investigate how meals with different fat contents influence endothelial vasodilatory function. A total of 26 young, healthy men and women aged 20-30 years ingested an ordinary Western meal [34 energy% (E%) fat, n =10], or isocaloric meals with low-fat (20 E%, n =8), or minimal-fat (3 E%, n =8) content. EDV was assessed as forearm blood flow (FBF) during local administration of 4 microg/min methacholine chloride (Mch-FBF) and endothelium-independent vasodilation as FBF during administration of 10 microg/min sodium nitroprusside (SNP-FBF) at baseline and 1 and 2 h after each meal. FBF was determined by venous occlusion plethysmography. An endothelial function index (EFI) was calculated as the Mch-FBF/SNP-FBF ratio. Both Mch-FBF and the EFI were decreased at 1 h after the 34 E% fat meal ( P <0.01 and P <0.05 respectively), but approached fasting levels after 2 h. Mch-FBF and EFI did not change significantly in the group consuming the 20 E% fat meal, but increased in the 3 E% fat group ( P <0.01 and P <0.05 compared with baseline for Mch-FBF and EFI respectively). SNP-FBF was not significantly affected by any of the meals. In conclusion, low-fat meals did not attenuate EDV, in contrast with an ordinary Western meal, which transiently impaired EDV. Our findings indicate that a dietary fat content of 20 E% or less might be beneficial to endothelial vasodilatory function.
Exercise restores beta-adrenergic vasorelaxation in aged rat carotid arteries.	Aging is associated with alterations in beta-adrenergic receptor (beta-AR) signaling and reduction in cardiovascular responses to beta-AR stimulation. Because exercise can attenuate age-related impairment in myocardial beta-AR signaling and function, we tested whether training could also exert favorable effects on vascular beta-AR responses. We evaluated common carotid artery responsiveness in isolated vessel ring preparations from 8 aged male Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats trained for 6 wk in a 5 days/wk swimming protocol, 10 untrained age-matched rats, and 10 young WKY rats. Vessels were preconstricted with phenylephrine (10-6 M), and vasodilation was assessed in response to the beta-AR agonist isoproterenol (10-10-3 x 10-8 M), the alpha2-AR agonist UK-14304 (10-9-10-6 M), the muscarinic receptor agonist ACh (10-9-10-6 M), and nitroprusside (10-8-10-5 M). beta-AR density and cytoplasmic beta-AR kinase (beta-ARK) activity were tested on pooled carotid arteries. beta-ARK expression was assessed in two endothelial cell lines from bovine aorta and aorta isolated from a 12-wk WKY rat. beta-AR, alpha2-AR, and muscarinic responses, but not that to nitroprusside, were depressed in untrained aged vs. young animals. Exercise training restored beta-AR and muscarinic responses but did not affect vasodilation induced by UK-14304 and nitroprusside. Aged carotid arteries showed reduced beta-AR number and increased beta-ARK activity. Training counterbalanced these phenomena and restored beta-AR density and beta-ARK activity to levels observed in young rat carotids. Our data indicate that age impairs beta-AR vasorelaxation in rat carotid arteries through beta-AR downregulation and desensitization. Exercise restores this response and reverts age-related modification in beta-ARs and beta-ARK. Our data support an important role for beta-ARK in vascular beta-AR vasorelaxation.
The C242T p22phox polymorphism and endothelium-dependent vasodilation in subjects with hypercholesterolaemia.	Oxidative stress plays a major pathogenetic role in cardiovascular disease. The C242T variant of the CYBA gene encoding the p22phox subunit of the NAD(P)H oxidase, a major source of superoxide production, has been shown to be associated with coronary artery disease and with vascular superoxide production in human veins ex vivo. Since superoxide degrades nitric oxide (NO), we hypothesized that the C242T variant influences endothelium-dependent vasodilation of the human forearm vasculature in vivo. In the present study, 90 subjects with elevated cholesterol levels were stratified for the C242T polymorphism of the CYBA p22phox gene. Endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilation were assessed by plethysmographic monitoring of forearm blood flow responses to intra-arterial infusion of acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside respectively. N(G)-Monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) was infused to analyse NO-mediated basal vascular tone. Baseline parameters (age, gender, blood pressure, body mass index, cholesterol level) were similar across the genotypes. No differences in forearm blood flow responses to the intra-arterial infusion of acetylcholine, sodium nitroprusside or L-NMMA were found across the CYBA p22phox genotypes. Our sample size of n =90 had a power of >80% (beta=0.20) with a P value of <0.05 (alpha=0.05) to detect a difference greater than 156% in the forearm blood flow response to acetylcholine across genotypes (S.D. 336%; average increase in forearm blood flow=514%). In conclusion, at a power of 80%, our study excludes a major effect of the C242T CYBA p22phox polymorphism on acetylcholine-mediated endothelium-dependent vasodilation and basal NO-mediated vascular tone of the human forearm circulation in subjects with hypercholesterolaemia.
Histamine inhibits atrial myocytic ANP release via H2 receptor-cAMP-protein kinase signaling.	Changes in cyclic nucleotide production and atrial dynamics have been known to modulate atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) release. Although cardiac atrium expresses histamine receptors and contains histamine, the role of histamine in the regulation of ANP release has to be defined. The purpose of the present study was to define the effect of histamine on the regulation of ANP release in perfused beating rabbit atria. Histamine decreased ANP release concomitantly with increases in cAMP efflux and atrial dynamics in a concentration-dependent manner. Histamine-induced decrease in ANP release was a function of an increase in cAMP production. Blockade of histamine H2 receptor with cimetidine but not of H1 receptor with triprolidine abolished the responses of histamine. Cell-permeable cAMP analog, 8-Br-cAMP, mimicked the effects of histamine, and the responses were dose-dependent and blocked by a protein kinase A (PKA)-selective inhibitor, KT5720. Nifedipine failed to modulate histamine-induced decrease in ANP release. Protein kinase nonselective inhibitor staurosporine blocked histamine-induced changes in a concentration-dependent manner. KT5720 and RP-adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, another PKA-selective inhibitor, attenuated histamine-induced changes. These results suggest that histamine decreases atrial ANP release by H2 receptor-cAMP signaling via PKA-dependent and -independent pathways.
Endothelium-dependent and -independent vascular dysfunction in type 1 diabetes: role of conventional risk factors, sex, and glycemic control.	Defective NO release/response may contribute to increased coronary risk and the loss of sex difference in coronary heart disease in diabetes. We aimed to determine whether NO release/response is impaired in type 1 diabetes and whether any defects are greater in women than men.
Inhibition of left ventricular remodelling preserves chamber systolic function in pressure-overloaded mice.	Controversy exists whether the development of left-ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) is a mechanism able to prevent cardiac dysfunction under conditions of pressure overload. In the present study we re-assessed the long-term effects of attenuating LVH by using L- and D-propranolol, which are equally able to inhibit the development of LVH induced by aortic banding. The aortic arch was banded proximal to the left common carotid artery in 71 CD-1 mice that were then assigned randomly to receive L-propranolol, D-propranolol (both 80 mg/kg per day) or vehicle. Concurrently, sham-operated mice were given L-propranolol, D-propranolol or vehicle. LV dimension and performance were evaluated under isoflurane anaesthesia by cine-magnetic resonance imaging, echocardiography and cardiac catheterization up to 8 weeks after surgery. After 2 weeks of pressure overload, the vehicle-treated banded mice had enhanced LV weight, normal chamber size and increased relative wall thickness (concentric hypertrophy), whereas L-propranolol- or D-propranolol-banded mice showed a markedly blunted hypertrophic response, i.e. normal chamber size and normal relative wall thickness, as well as preserved systolic LV chamber function. After 4 weeks, the vehicle-treated banded mice showed LV enlargement with a reduced relative wall thickness (eccentric remodelling) and a clear-cut deterioration in LV systolic function. In contrast, L-propranolol- or D-propranolol-treated banded mice showed normal chamber size with a normal relative wall thickness and preserved systolic function. A distinct histological feature was that in banded mice, L-or D-propranolol attenuated the development of cardiomyocyte hypertrophy but not the attendant myocardial fibrosis. At the 8-week stage, LV dysfunction was present in propranolol-treated banded mice although it was much less severe than in vehicle-treated banded mice. It is concluded that (i) deterioration of LV systolic performance is delayed if LV hypertrophy is inhibited, (ii) banding-induced deterioration of LV systolic function is associated with LV eccentric remodelling and (iii) the antihypertrophic effect of propranolol is due to a selective action on cardiomyocytes rather than on collagen accumulation
Ischaemic tolerance in aged mouse myocardium: the role of adenosine and effects of A1 adenosine receptor overexpression.	The genesis of the ischaemia intolerant phenotype in aged myocardium is poorly understood. We tested the hypothesis that impaired adenosine-mediated protection contributes to ischaemic intolerance, and examined whether this is countered by A1 adenosine receptor (A1AR) overexpression. Responses to 20 min ischaemia and 45 min reperfusion were assessed in perfused hearts from young (2-4 months) and moderately aged (16-18 months) mice. Post-ischaemic contractility was impaired by ageing with elevated ventricular diastolic (32 +/- 2 vs. 18 +/- 2 mmHg in young) and reduced developed (37 +/- 3 vs. 83 +/- 6 mmHg in young) pressures. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) loss was exaggerated (27 +/- 2 vs. 16 +/- 2 IU g-1 in young) whereas the incidence of tachyarrhythmias was similar in young (15 +/- 1 %) and aged hearts (16 +/- 1 %). Functional analysis confirmed equipotent effects of 50 micro M adenosine at A1 and A2 receptors in young and aged hearts. Nonetheless, while 50 micro M adenosine improved diastolic (5 +/- 1 mmHg) and developed pressures (134 +/- 7 mmHg) and LDH loss (6 +/- 2 IU g-1) in young hearts, it did not alter these variables in the aged group. Adenosine did attenuate arrhythmogenesis for both ages (to ~10 %). In contrast to adenosine, 50 micro M diazoxide reduced ischaemic damage and arrhythmogenesis for both ages. Contractile and anti-necrotic effects of adenosine were limited by 100 micro M 5-hydroxydecanoate (5-HD) and 3 micro M chelerythrine. Anti-arrhythmic effects were limited by 5-HD but not chelerythrine. Non-selective (100 micro M 8-sulfophenyltheophylline) and A1-selective (150 nM 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine) adenosine receptor antagonism impaired ischaemic tolerance in young but not aged hearts. Quantitative real-time PCR and radioligand analysis indicated that impaired protection is unrelated to changes in A1AR mRNA transcription, or receptor density (~8 fmol mg-1 protein in both age groups). However, A1AR overexpression improved tolerance for both ages, restoring adenosine-mediated protection. These data reveal impaired protection via exogenous and endogenous adenosine contributes to ischaemic intolerance with ageing. This is independent of A1AR expression, and involves ineffective activation of a 5-HD-/diazoxide-sensitive process. The effects of A1AR overexpression indicate that the age-related failure in signalling can be overcome.
Periodontal disease is associated with brachial artery endothelial dysfunction and systemic inflammation.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether periodontal disease is associated with endothelial dysfunction and systemic inflammation. Epidemiological studies suggest that severe periodontal disease is associated with increased cardiovascular disease risk, but the mechanisms remain unknown.
Restoration of endothelial function by increasing high-density lipoprotein in subjects with isolated low high-density lipoprotein.	Loss-of-function mutations in the ATP-binding cassette (ABCA)-1 gene locus are the underlying cause for familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia, providing a human isolated low-HDL model. In these familial hypoalphalipoproteinemia subjects, we evaluated the impact of isolated low HDL on endothelial function and the vascular effects of an acute increase in HDL.
Endothelin antagonism on aldosterone-induced oxidative stress and vascular remodeling.	Endothelin A (ETA) receptor blockade has prevented vascular remodeling in aldosterone and salt-induced hypertension. To evaluate effects of the ETA receptor antagonist, BMS 182874, compared with the aldosterone antagonist, spironolactone, on vascular remodeling in aldosterone-infused rats not exposed to a high salt diet, Sprague-Dawley rats were infused subcutaneously with aldosterone (0.75 microg/h) and treated with BMS 182874 (40 mg. kg-1. d-1), spironolactone, or hydralazine (both 25 mg. kg-1. d-1) while receiving a normal salt diet for 6 weeks. Aldosterone increased systolic BP (P<0.01), plasma endothelin (3.33+/-0.32 versus 1.85+/-0.40 pmol/L in control, P<0.05), systemic oxidative stress as shown by plasma thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances and vascular nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH) activity. Aldosterone increased small artery media thickness (17.7+/-0.9 versus 13.6+/-0.8 microm in control, P<0.05) and media/lumen ratio (7.6+/-0.4 versus 5.5+/-0.4% in control, P<0.05), with growth index of 21% indicating hypertrophic remodeling. Laser confocal microscopy showed increased collagen and fibronectin deposition and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) content in the vessel wall of aldosterone-infused rats. The 3 treatments lowered BP, although hydralazine was slightly less effective. BMS 182874 and spironolactone decreased oxidative stress, normalized the hypertrophic remodeling, decreased collagen and fibronectin deposition, and reduced ICAM-1 abundance in the vascular wall of aldosterone-infused rats, whereas hydralazine only reduced NADPH activity in aorta but did not affect the remaining parameters. Vascular remodeling of small arteries occurs in aldosterone-infused rats exposed to a normal salt diet and may be mediated in part by ET-1 via stimulation of ETA receptors. Endothelin blockade may exert beneficial effects on vascular remodeling, fibrosis, oxidative stress, and adhesion molecule expression in aldosterone-induced hypertension.
The nitric oxide donor molsidomine prevents ischemia/reperfusion injury of the adult rat small intestine.	It is suggested that gastrointestinal mucosal blood flow depends on a balanced release of vasoactive substances from the endothelium. The present study investigated the effects of molsidomine on the small intestine after ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury in four groups of 10 rats each composed: (1) SO, sham operation; (2) untreated I/R; (3) ML, I/R plus molsidomine pretreatment; (4) L-NAME, I/R plus N-omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester pretreatment. Intestinal ischemia for 45 min and reperfusion for 60 min were applied. Ileum specimens were obtained to determine the tissue level of malondialdehyde (MDA) and histologic changes. Mean MDA levels in the SO, untreated I/R, ML, and L-NAME groups were 95.60 +/- 2.59, 136.90 +/- 4.35, 121.10 +/- 3.38, and 137.40 +/- 4.42 nmol/g wet tissue, respectively. Although the MDA level in the ML group was higher than in the SO group ( P < 0.0001), it was significantly lower compared to the untreated I/R and L-NAME groups ( P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001). Mucosal injury scores (MIS) in groups 1-4 were 0.2 +/- 0.42, 3.9 +/- 0.73, 1.5 +/- 0.70, and 4.1 +/- 0.56, respectively. In group 3 the MIS was significantly lower than in groups 2 and 4 ( P < 0.0001, P < 0.0001). Molsidomine plays a role in attenuating reperfusion injury of the small intestine by depression of tissue MDA levels and MIS and regulates post-ischemic intestinal perfusion while restoring the intestinal microcirculatory blood flow and histologic injury.
Homocellular conduction along endothelium and smooth muscle of arterioles in hamster cheek pouch: unmasking an NO wave.	We investigated roles for homocellular (endothelium or smooth muscle) and heterocellular (myoendothelial) conduction pathways along hamster cheek pouch arterioles in vivo (n=64; diameter, 33+/-1 microm). Endothelium-dependent and -independent vasoactive agents were delivered from micropipettes (0.5 or 1 second pulse) onto an arteriole while observing diameter changes at defined distances along the vessel. Acetylcholine (ACh) produced maximal diameter (63+/-1 microm) locally and vasodilation conducted rapidly ( approximately 10 microm response at 2 mm, <1 second). Responses to bradykinin (BK) were similar, whereas sodium nitroprusside produced maximal dilation locally without conduction. KCl evoked biphasic conduction of vasoconstriction and vasodilation, whereas phenylephrine (PE) produced conducted vasoconstriction. Disrupting the integrity of endothelium as a conduction pathway using focal light-dye treatment (LDT) abolished conducted vasodilation to BK and to KCl but not to ACh. Disruption of smooth muscle integrity with LDT abolished conducted vasoconstriction with no effect on conducted vasodilation. After LDT of respective cell layers at sites 1 mm apart, vasodilation to ACh conducted past disrupted smooth muscle or disrupted endothelium, but not beyond both sites in series. The loss of conduction after selective LDT indicates a lack of effective myoendothelial coupling along the arteriolar wall. During NO synthase inhibition (L-NA, 100 micromol/L), conducted vasodilation was abolished to BK and to KCl yet remained intact to ACh. However, after LDT of smooth muscle, L-NA inhibited conduction to ACh by 60%. Thus, conduction of vasodilation entails a wave of NO release along arteriolar endothelium that is masked when smooth muscle provides a parallel conduction pathway.
Endothelial cell signaling during conducted vasomotor responses.	ACh and KCl stimulate vasomotor responses that spread rapidly and bidirectionally along arteriole walls, most likely via spread of electric current or Ca2+ through gap junctions. We examined these possibilities with isolated, cannulated, and perfused hamster cheek pouch arterioles (50- to 80-microm resting diameter). After intraluminal loading of 2 microM fluo 3 to measure Ca2+ or 1 microM di-8-ANEPPS to measure membrane potential, photometric techniques were used to selectively measure changes in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) or membrane potential in endothelial cells. Activation of the endothelium by micropipette application of ACh (10-4 M, 1.0-s pulse) to a short segment of arteriole (100-200 microm) increased endothelial cell [Ca2+]i and caused hyperpolarization at the site of stimulation. This response was followed rapidly by vasodilation of the entire arteriole ( approximately 2-mm length). Change in membrane potential always preceded dilation, both at the site of stimulation and at distant sites along the arteriole. In contrast, an increase in endothelial cell [Ca2+]i was observed only at the application site. Micropipette application of KCl, which can depolarize both smooth muscle and endothelial cells (250 mM, 2.5-s pulse), also caused a rapid, spreading response consisting of depolarization followed by vasoconstriction. With KCl stimulation, in addition to changes in membrane potential, increases in endothelial cell [Ca2+]i were observed at distant sites not directly exposed to KCl. The rapid longitudinal spread of both hyperpolarizing and depolarizing responses support electrical coupling as the mode of signal transmission along the arteriolar length. In addition, the relatively short distance between heterologous cell types enables the superimposed radial Ca2+ signaling between smooth muscle and endothelial cells to modulate vasomotor responses.
Alterations in EDHF-type relaxation and phosphodiesterase activity in mesenteric arteries from diabetic rats.	In isolated superior mesenteric artery rings from age-matched control rats and streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetic rats, we investigated the role of cAMP in endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-type relaxation. The ACh-induced EDHF-type relaxation was significantly weaker in STZ-induced diabetic rats than in control rats, and in both groups of rats it was attenuated by 18alpha-glycyrrhetinic acid (18alpha-GA), an inhibitor of gap junctions, and enhanced by IBMX, a cAMP-phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitor. These enhanced EDHF-type responses were very similar in magnitude between diabetic and age-matched control rats. The EDHF-type relaxation was enhanced by cilostamide, a PDE3-selective inhibitor, but not by Ro 20-1724, a PDE4-selective inhibitor. The expression levels of the mRNAs and proteins for two cAMP PDEs (PDE3A, PDE3B) were significantly increased in STZ-induced diabetic rats, but those for PDE4D were not. We conclude that the impairment of EDHF-type relaxations in STZ-induced diabetic rats may be attributed to a reduction in the action of cAMP via increased PDE activity.
Differential role of PTK and ERK MAPK in superoxide impairment of K(ATP) and K(Ca) channel cerebrovasodilation.	Previously, superoxide (O2 -) has been observed to impair pial artery dilation (PAD) to activators of the ATP-sensitive (KATP) and calcium-sensitive (KCa) K+ channels. This study tested the hypothesis that activation of protein tyrosine kinase (PTK) and the ERK isoform of MAPK by O2 - contribute to impairment of KATP and KCa channel PAD. Exposure of the cerebral cortex to a xanthine oxidase O2 --generating system (OX) blunted PAD to cromakalim, a KATP agonist, but preadministration of genistein, a PTK antagonist, or U-0126, an ERK MAPK inhibitor, almost completely prevented such impairment (11 +/- 1 and 22 +/- 1 vs. 3 +/- 1 and 7 +/- 1 vs. 10 +/- 1 and 16 +/- 2% for cromakalim with 10-8 and 10-6 M PAD during control, OX, and OX + genistein conditions). In contrast, neither genistein nor U-0126 robustly protected PAD to NS-1619, a KCa agonist, after OX exposure (11 +/- 1 and 18 +/- 2 vs. 1 +/- 1 and 2 +/- 1 vs. 4 +/- 1 and 6 +/- 1% for 10-8 and 10-6 M NS-1619 during control, OX, and OX + genistein conditions). These data show that PTK and ERK MAPK activation contribute to O2 --induced KATP and KCa channel PAD impairment and suggest a differential greater role for PTK and ERK MAPK in KATP vs. KCa channel PAD impairment.
Exercise training improves conduit vessel function in patients with coronary artery disease.	It is well established that endothelial dysfunction is present in coronary artery disease (CAD), although few studies have determined the effect of training on peripheral conduit vessel function in patients with CAD. A randomized, crossover design determined the effect of 8 wk of predominantly lower limb, combined aerobic and resistance training, in 10 patients with treated CAD. Endothelium-dependent dilation of the brachial artery was determined, by using high-resolution vascular ultrasonography, from flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) after ischemia. Endothelium-independent vasodilation was measured after administration of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN). Baseline function was compared with that of 10 control subjects. Compared with matched healthy control subjects, FMD and GTN responses were significantly impaired in the untrained CAD patients [3.0 +/- 0.8 (SE) vs. 5.8 +/- 0.8% and 14.5 +/- 1.9 vs. 20.4 +/- 1.5%, respectively; both P < 0.05]. Training significantly improved FMD in the CAD patients (from 3.0 +/- 0.8 to 5.7 +/- 1.1%; P < 0.05) but not responsiveness to GTN (14.5 +/- 1.9 vs. 12.1 +/- 1.4%; P = not significant). Exercise training improves endothelium-dependent conduit vessel dilation in subjects with CAD, and the effect, evident in the brachial artery, appears to be generalized rather than limited to vessels of exercising muscle beds. These results provide evidence for the benefit of exercise training, as an adjunct to routine therapy, in patients with a history of CAD.
Clinical study on Tianbaokang injection against oxidative injury of vascular endothelial function in ischemic apoplexy]	To discuss clinical effects and therapeutic mechanisms of Tianbaokang Injection on ischemic apoplexy.
Nitric oxide-induced decrease in calcium sensitivity of resistance arteries is attributable to activation of the myosin light chain phosphatase and antagonized by the RhoA/Rho kinase pathway.	NO-induced dilations in resistance arteries (RAs) are not associated with decreases in vascular smooth muscle cell Ca2+. We tested whether a cGMP-dependent activation of the smooth muscle myosin light chain phosphatase (MLCP) resulting in a Ca2+ desensitization of the contractile apparatus was the underlying mechanism and whether it could be antagonized by the RhoA pathway.
Selective impairment in sympathetic vasomotor control with norepinephrine transporter inhibition.	Norepinephrine transporter (NET) inhibition increases the responsiveness to vasoactive medications and attenuates the response to sympathetic stimuli. The phenomenon may be a result of impaired regulation of sympathetic vasomotor tone.
Electrocardiographic changes associated with the nasopharyngeal reflex in conscious rabbits: vago-sympathetic co-activation.	Electrocardiographic responses were assessed in conscious rabbits when the nasopharyngeal reflex was elicited by inhalation of formaldehyde vapour. There was a profound fall in heart rate (224+/-5 to 64+/-4 beats per min (bpm)) associated with abnormal or absent P-waves. There were no changes in the QRS complex. The R-T interval (control value 118+/-4 ms) was initially shortened to 107+/-3 ms and then prolonged to 130+/-4 ms. Heart rate and P-wave changes were prevented by muscarinic cholinergic blockade with methylscopolamine. The R-T shortening was reduced by 79+/-4% by beta-adrenergic blockade with propranolol. Methylscopolamine also unmasked small tachycardic responses (5-25 bpm) in 5/7 animals. This tachycardia was prevented by propranolol. Thus both parasympathetic vagal cardiac nerves and sympathetic cardiac nerves are activated during the nasopharyngeal reflex, with increased vagal effects in the sino-atrial node, and increased sympathetic effects in the ventricular myocardium.
Relaxation by urocortin of rat renal arteries: effects of diabetes in males and females.	Urocortin is a peptide structurally related to corticotropin releasing factor (CRF), and the present study was performed to examine the effects of diabetes mellitus on the relaxation by urocortin of renal arteries from males and females.
ETA and ETB receptor function in pancreatitis-associated microcirculatory failure, inflammation, and parenchymal injury.	The role of endothelin (ET)A and ETB receptor function in experimental pancreatitis is still not fully understood. Using a rat model of sodium taurocholate-induced pancreatitis and intravital microscopy, we therefore studied whether selective inhibition of ETA receptor function or combined ETA and ETB receptor blockade affects the development of pancreatitis-associated microcirculatory failure, inflammation, and parenchymal injury. Pretreatment with 10 mg/kg body wt of a combined ETA/B receptor antagonist, which is thought to mediate a simultaneous inhibition of both receptors, did not attenuate the pancreatitis-induced microcirculatory failure, inflammatory response, and parenchymal tissue injury. In contrast, pretreatment with a low concentration of the combined ETA/B receptor antagonist (4 mg/kg body wt), which predominantly inhibits the ETA receptor, revealed an improvement of some microcirculatory disorders and a significant attenuation of leukocyte recruitment and tissue injury. Furthermore, pretreatment with a selective ETA receptor antagonist (1 microg/kg body wt) almost abolished pancreatitis-associated capillary constriction, restored functional capillary density, and, consequently, improved overall nutritive perfusion. Importantly, the maintenance of an appropriate microcirculation by selective ETA receptor inhibition was accompanied by a significant attenuation of the inflammation-associated leukocytic response and by a marked reduction of parenchymal injury. Thus our study indicates that pancreatitis-associated development of microcirculatory failure, inflammation, and parenchymal injury is caused by ETs coupling onto the ETA receptor, which therefore may represent a promising target for novel strategies in the treatment of pancreatitis.
Exogenous nitric oxide increases basal leg glucose uptake in humans.	This study addressed the role of blood flow and nitric oxide in leg glucose uptake. Seven subjects (5 men, 2 women) were studied during conditions of resting blood flow and increased blood flow, achieved by infusion of the nitric oxide (NO) donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) into the femoral artery. Femoral arterial and venous blood samples were obtained and blood flow was determined by infusion of indocyanine green dye. SNP infusion significantly increased leg blood flow (769 +/- 103 v 450 +/- 65 mL. min(-1). leg(-1), P <.001), but did not affect arterial (4.68 +/- 0.13 mmol/L control, 4.63 +/- 0.09 mmol/L SNP) or venous (4.60 +/- 0.14 mmol/L control, 4.54 +/- 0.10 mmol/L SNP) glucose concentrations. Glucose uptake was significantly (P <.01) higher during SNP infusion (65 +/- 6 micromol. min(-1). leg(-1)) than during the basal period (34 +/- 6 micromol. min(-1). leg(-1)), whereas lactate release was unaffected (rest, 45 +/- 11 micromol. min(-1). leg(-1); SNP, 42 +/- 14 micromol. min(-1). leg(-1)). We conclude that blood flow and/or NO increase basal leg glucose uptake.
Age-related changes in electrical reactions of rat aorta endothelium elicited by acetylcholine and ATP.	Age-related changes in some electrophysiological parameters of the endothelium in isolated rat aorta were studied. In comparison with young rats (6 months), resting potential of the endothelium in aged rats (24-26 months) was significantly higher and varied in a wider range. The electrical responses of intact endothelium of isolated aorta to acetylcholine were typical and regular in young rats, while in aged rats these responses were irregular and atypical. It is hypothesized that atypical electrical responses of the endothelium to acetylcholine and ATP in aged animals result from functional clustering associated with disturbances in electrical contacts between endotheliocytes. We hypothesize that the age-related decrease in NO production is related to disturbances of electrical properties of endothelial membrane.
Blockade of calcium entry accelerates arsenite-mediated apoptosis in rat cerebellar granule cells.	Arsenical exposure can cause defects in the central nervous system, yet the underlying cellular and molecular mechanisms are largely unknown. We have recently demonstrated that sodium arsenite induces apoptosis of cultured cortical and cerebellar neurons, suggesting that arsenite-induced neuronal apoptosis may contribute to at least some of its neurotoxic effects. Here we investigated the effect of Ca2+ on arsenite-mediated cerebellar granule neuron death. Sodium arsenite induced apoptosis in cerebellar neurons which were maintained in the presence of serum and depolarizing concentrations of potassium chloride (25 mM KCI). Under these conditions, inhibition of calcium entry by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker DL-aminophosphonovalerate (APV) or calcium channel antagonist nifedipine increased arsenite-induced apoptosis, while APV or nifedipine alone had little effect on cell viability. In cortical neurons or cerebellar neurons maintained at low potassium (5 mM), arsenite also induced apoptosis. However, the addition of APV or nifedipine did not alter levels of arsenite-induced apoptosis. These data suggest that arsenite-mediated apoptosis is regulated by intracellular calcium levels.
Repetitive brief ischemia: intermittent reperfusion during ischemia ameliorates the extent of injury in the perfused kidney.	Acute renal failure commonly follows reduced renal perfusion or ischemia. Reperfusion is essential for recovery but can itself cause functional and structural injury to the kidney. The separate contributions of ischemia and of reperfusion were examined in the isolated perfused rat kidney. Three groups were studied: brief (5 min) ischemia, 20 min ischemia, and repetitive brief ischemia (4 periods of 5 min) with repetitive intervening reperfusion of 5 min. A control group had no intervention, the three ischemia groups were given a baseline perfusion of 30 min before intervention and all groups were perfused for a total of 80 min. In addition, the effects of exogenous *NO from sodium nitroprusside and xanthine oxidase inhibition by allopurinol were assessed in the repetitive brief ischemia-reperfusion model. Brief ischemia produced minimal morphological injury with near normal functional recovery. Repetitive brief ischemia-reperfusion caused less functional and morphological injury than an equivalent single period of ischemia (20 min) suggesting that intermittent reperfusion is less injurious than ischemia alone over the time course of study. Pretreatment with allopurinol improved renal function after repetitive brief ischemia-reperfusion compared with the allopurinol-untreated repetitive brief ischemia-reperfusion group. Similarly, sodium nitroprusside reduced renal vascular resistance but did not improve the glomerular filtration rate or sodium reabsorption in the repetitive brief ischemia-reperfusion model. Thus, these studies show that the duration of uninterrupted ischemia is more critical than reperfusion in determining the extent of renal ischemia-reperfusion injury and that allopurinol, in particular, counteracts the oxidative stress of reperfusion.
Sinus tachyarrhythmias and the specific bradycardic agents: a marriage made in heaven?	A relatively novel group of drugs that inhibit the funny current in the sinus node pacemaker cells, the so-called specific bradycardic agents, are likely to play a significant role in the management of a wide range of cardiovascular disorders, including the sinus tachyarrhythmias. This comprehensive review initially provides an insight into these agents, their historical background, and their mechanism of action. It then discusses the differential diagnosis of the sinus tachyarrhythmias (normal sinus tachycardia, inappropriate sinus tachycardia, postural orthostatic tachycardia syndrome, and sinus node reentry tachycardia), elaborates on their pathophysiologic basis, and provides up-to-date evidence-based information on their optimum management. The specific bradycardic agents, by the very nature of their mode of action, may prove ideal therapies for the management of the sinus tachyarrhythmias, and this is explored at every stage.
Response by the corpuscles of Stannius to hypotensive stimuli in three divergent ray-finned fishes (Amia calva, Anguilla rostrata, and Catastomus commersoni): cardiovascular and morphological changes.	In accordance with their vital role in cardiovascular physiology () corpuscles of Stannius (CS) from two teleosts and an holostean species showed marked and consistent degranulation and exocytotic responses to hypotensive stimuli. In eels (Anguilla rostrata LeSueur) acute blood withdrawal (hypovolemic hypotension) was followed by a prompt decrease in cardiac output (CO) and dorsal aortic pressure (P(DA)), a compensatory tachycardic response and an increase in systemic vascular resistance (R(SYS)). Isovolemic hypotension induced by papaverine i.v., led to a similar, but more prolonged, decrease in P(DA) but the heart rate (HR) continued to accelerate, thereby counterbalancing the severe and persistent decrease in R(SYS). Both hypovolemic and isovolemic hypotension were followed by a significant depletion of cytoplasmic granules from eel CS even though plasma concentrations of Ca, Mg, Na(+), and K(+) were normal. In an ancient holostean fish, the bowfin, Amia calva and a generalized teleost fish, Catastomus commersoni, the number of cytoplasmic granules decreased by 39% and 54%, respectively, 120 min after the acute withdrawal of 8 ml kg bw(-1) of blood. These findings suggest that a primary role of the CS is to release cytoplasmic granules containing renin or isorenin into the blood circulation, in response to hypotension and/or hypovolemia.
Microvascular reactivity in experimental diabetes: responses of male and female rats.	To study the influence of sex on the responses of microvessels to vasoactive agents in experimental diabetes.
Purinergic receptors on microglial cells: functional expression in acute brain slices and modulation of microglial activation in vitro.	Microglial cells are the pathologic sensors in the brain. ATP released from damaged cells is a candidate for signalling neural injury to microglia. Moreover, ATP is an extracellular messenger for propagating astrocyte activity in the form of Ca2+ waves. To test for the functional expression of purinoreceptors in microglial cells we employed the patch-clamp technique in acute slices of adult mouse brain. ATP triggered a nonselective cationic and a K+ current. Pharmacological screening with purinergic ligands indicated the presence of P2Y1 and P2Y2/4 receptors linked to the activation of a K+ current and P2X receptors, including P2X7, linked to the activation of a nonselective cationic current. These findings suggest that microglial cells in situ express different purinergic receptors with distinct sensitivity and functional coupling. To test for the involvement of purinoreceptors in microglial activation, we stimulated cultured microglial cells with lipopolysaccharide and measured the release of tumour necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-6, interleukin-12 and macrophage inflammatory protein 1alpha, induction of K+ outward currents and nitric oxide release. All these parameters were reduced in the presence of purinergic ligands, indicating that purinergic receptor activation attenuated indicators of microglial activation.
Impaired vasodilator responses to atrial natriuretic peptide in essential hypertension.	Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) has vasodilating and diuretic/natriuretic properties, both of which contribute to lower blood pressure. These effects are mediated by binding of ANP to a cell-surface receptor [type A guanylyl cyclase (GC-A)]. It has been demonstrated by studies in monogenetic mouse models that the ANP/GC-A system participates in the maintenance of blood pressure homeostasis.
C-peptide has no effect on forearm blood flow during local hyperinsulinaemia in healthy humans.	C-peptide increases forearm blood flow (FBF) in patients with Type 1 diabetes, probably by interaction with insulin, but not in healthy subjects. It is unclear if the vasodilating effect is sealed at normal fasting insulin concentrations.
Protective effects of cyanidin-3-O-glucoside from blackberry extract against peroxynitrite-induced endothelial dysfunction and vascular failure.	Anthocyanins are a group of naturally occurring phenolic compounds as colorants in several plants, flowers and fruits. These pigments have a great importance as quality indicators, as chemotaxonomic markers and antioxidants. The content of blackberry (Rubus species) juice was investigated by HPLC/ESI/MS using narrow bore HPLC columns. Using this method we demonstrated that cyanidin-3-O-glucoside represents about 80% of the total anthocyanin contents in blackberry extract. Here we investigated antioxidant activity of the blackberry juice and cyanidin-3-O-glucoside on the endothelial dysfunction in cells and in vascular rings exposed to peroxynitrite. In human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) in vitro, peroxynitrite caused a significant suppression of mitochondrial respiration (38 +/- 2.1% of control cells), as measured by the mitochondrial-dependent conversion of the dye MTT to formazan. Peroxynitrite caused DNA strand breakage (63 +/- 1.9% single strand vs 3 +/- 0.9% single strand in control cells), as measured by the alkaline unwinding assay, and caused an activation of PARS, as measured by the incorporation of radiolabeled NAD(+) to nuclear proteins. Blackberry juice (different dilutions that contained 80 ppm;40 ppm;14.5 ppm of cyanidin-3-O-glucoside) and cyanidin-3-O-glucoside (as chloride) (0.085 microM; 0.028 microM; 0.0085 microM) reduced the peroxynitrite-induced suppression of mitochondrial respiration, DNA damage and PARS activation in HUVECs. Vascular rings exposed to peroxynitrite exhibited reduced endothelium-dependent relaxant responses in response to acetylcholine as well as a vascular contractility dysfunction in response to norepinephrine. The development of this peroxynitrite-induced vascular dysfunction was ameliorated by the blackberry juice (different dilutions that contained 80 ppm;40 ppm;14.5 ppm of cyanidin-3-O-glucoside) and cyanidin-3-O-glucoside (as chloride) (0.085 microM;0.028 microM;0.0085 microM). In conclusion our findings clearly demonstrate that blackberry juice containing cyanidin-3-O-glucoside is a scavenger of peroxynitrite and that exert a protective effect against endothelial dysfunction and vascular failure induced by peroxynitrite.
Effects of posture and venous insufficiency on endothelial-dependent and -independent cutaneous vasodilation in the perimalleolar region.	To assess the effects of posture, endothelial function and venous insufficiency on cutaneous microvascular vasodilator function in the gaiter area, in particular defining factors which may affect microangiopathy and ulcer formation.
Effects of adenosine on intraocular pressure, optic nerve head blood flow, and choroidal blood flow in healthy humans.	There is evidence from a variety of animal studies that the adenosine system plays a role in the control of intraocular pressure (IOP) and ocular blood flow. However, human data on the effect of adenosine on IOP and choroidal and optic nerve blood flow are not available.
A potential mechanism for the impairment of nitric oxide formation caused by prolonged oral exposure to arsenate in rabbits.	We have recently found evidence for impairment of nitric oxide (NO) formation and induction of oxidative stress in residents of an endemic area of chronic arsenic poisoning in Inner Mongolia, China. To investigate the underlying mechanisms responsible for these phenomena, a subchronic animal experiment was conducted using male New Zealand White rabbits. After 18 weeks of continuous exposure of rabbits to 5 mg/l of arsenate in drinking water, a significant decrease in systemic NO production occurred, as shown by significantly reduced plasma NO metabolites levels (76% of control) and a tendency towards decreased serum cGMP levels (81.4% of control). On the other hand, increased oxidative stress, as shown by significantly increased urinary hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) (120% of control), was observed in arsenate-exposed rabbits. In additional experiments measuring aortic tension, the addition of either the calcium ionophore A23187 or acethylcholine (ACh) induced a transient vasoconstriction of aortic rings prepared from arsenate-exposed rabbits, but not in those prepared from control animals. This calcium-dependent contractility action observed in aorta rings from arsenate-exposed rabbits was markedly attenuated by the superoxide (O2(.-)) scavenging enzyme Cu, Zn-SOD, as well as diphenyleneiodonium (DPI) or N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), which are inhibitors for nitric oxide synthase (NOS). However, the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin or the xanthine oxidase blocker allopurinol had no effect on this vasoconstriction. These results suggest that arsenate-mediated reduction of systemic NO may be associated with the enzymatic uncoupling reaction of NOS with a subsequent enhancement of reactive oxygen species such as O2(.-), an endothelium-derived vasoconstricting factor. Furthermore, hepatic levels of (6R)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydro-L-biopterin (BH(4)), a cofactor for NOS, were markedly reduced in arsenate-exposed rabbits to 62% of control, while no significant change occurred in cardiac L-arginine levels. These results suggest that prolonged exposure of rabbits to oral arsenate may impair the bioavailability of BH(4) in endothelial cells and, as a consequence, disrupt the balance between NO and O2(.-) produced from endothelial NOS, such that enhanced free radicals are produced at the expense of NO.
The effect of trimetazidine on liver regeneration after partial hepatectomy under hepatic blood inflow occlusion.	It has been shown that hepatic blood inflow occlusion impairs liver regeneration. Our aim in this study was to investigate the effect of trimetazidine, known as an anti-ischemic and anti-oxidant agent, on liver regeneration after hepatic blood inflow occlusion.
Improved endothelial function after a modified harvesting technique of the internal thoracic artery.	One of the most important factors in bypass surgery is the preservation of endothelial function in the arterial graft. It was of interest, therefore, whether a slightly modified preparation procedure during surgery could contribute to improved endothelial function of the graft. We compared the functional activity of internal thoracic arteries (ITA) prepared according to the traditional harvesting method with occlusion by a clip, dissection at the distal end and storage of the artery in papaverine until its implantation (CA) with the functional activity of arteries which were also prepared and wrapped in papaverine, but were left perfused and dissected immediately before their anastomoses (PA).
The inhibitory action of protamine on human internal thoracic artery contractions: the effect of free hemoglobin.	We investigated the mechanism of the protamine action and the effects of free hemoglobin on protamine-induced responses in endothelium-denuded and-intact human internal thoracic artery (ITA) rings precontracted with phenylephrine (PE) or high KCl.
Inhibition of myocardial apoptosis reduces infarct size and improves regional contractile dysfunction during reperfusion.	Myocardial apoptosis is primarily triggered during reperfusion (R) through various mechanisms that may involve endonuclease to cleavage genomic DNA in the internucleosomal linker regions. However, the relative contribution of myocardial apoptosis to development of myocardial injury during R remains unknown. In the present study, we examined whether inhibition of apoptosis with aurintricarboxylic acid (ATA), an endonuclease inhibitor, during R reduces infarct size and improves regional contractile function.
Hyperthyroidism enhances endothelium-dependent relaxation in the rat renal artery.	Hyperthyroidism has pronounced effects on vascular function and endothelium-dependent relaxation. The aim of the present study was to identify mechanisms underlying hyperthyroidism-induced alterations in endothelial function in rats.
Effect of vinpocetin on the hemorheologic parameters in patients with chronic cerebrovascular disease]	Data collected from large number of multicenter, randomized trials in acute and chronic stroke patients provide evidence, that incidence and high mortality of cerebrovascular disorders can be decreased mainly by prevention and that the effectiveness of acute stroke treatment is limited. The terminology of "chronic cerebrovascular diseases" involves many pathologic entities and often atypical clinical symptoms refer to the focal or global hypoperfusion of the brain. However, hemorheological disturbances seem to be important factors of the complex pathomechanism. Vinpocetine has successfully been used in the treatment of cerebrovascular diseases, the part of the mechanism of action are the favourable rheological effects demonstrated after oral administration in more previous studies.
Changes of reactivity of rabbit femoral venous rings after 21 d simulated weightlessness]	To study the effects of simulated weightlessness on reactivity of leg veins.
Visceral obesity is characterized by impaired nitric oxide-independent vasodilation.	Endothelial dysfunction has been described in obesity. This study examines the impact of visceral obesity on nitric oxide-independent relaxation in the human forearm.
Ischaemic preconditioning and a mitochondrial KATP channel opener both produce cardioprotection accompanied by F1F0-ATPase inhibition in early ischaemia.	Ischaemic preconditioning gives powerful protection against prolonged ischaemia affecting several intracellular regulatory and messenger pathways, although their mutual importance is far from established. Protective, preconditioning-like effects have been reported for K(ATP) channel openers, and most of the evidence points to the mitochondrial K(ATP) channels. We show here that the K(ATP) channel opener diazoxide, which acts selectively on the mitochondrial channel, causes potentiation of ischaemic inhibition of mitochondrial ATP synthase (F(1)F(0)-ATPase) along with cardioprotection. These effects are comparable with that of ischaemic preconditioning. The administration of diazoxide did not affect the cellular energy state as monitored with (31)P NMR. The actions of both diazoxide and ischaemic preconditioning were prevented by 5-hydroxydecanoate, a specific inhibitor of the mitochondrial K(ATP) channel. Thus mitochondrial K(ATP) channel opening and ischaemic preconditioning must share common mechanisms of action involving mitochondrial F(1)F(0)-ATPase, although involvement of the energy state in protection could not be proved.
Blockade of A2A adenosine receptors prevents basic fibroblast growth factor-induced reactive astrogliosis in rat striatal primary astrocytes.	Previous literature data show that blockade of A(2A) adenosine receptors via selective antagonists induces protection in various models of neurodegenerative diseases. The mechanisms underlying this effect are still largely unknown. Since it is known that excessive reactive astrogliosis is a factor contributing to cell death in diseases characterized by neurodegenerative events, the present study has been aimed at determining whether selective A(2A) receptor antagonists can counteract the formation of reactive astrocytes induced in vitro by basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), a typical trigger of this reaction. Exposure of primary rat striatal astrocytes to the selective A(2A) antagonist SCH58261 resulted in concentration-dependent abolition of bFGF induction of astrogliosis in vitro. This effect could also be reproduced with the chemically unrelated A(2A) antagonist KW-6002. The direct activation of A(2A) adenosine receptors by selective receptor agonists was not sufficient per se to induce astrogliosis, suggesting that the A(2A) receptor needs to act in concert with other bFGF-induced genes to trigger the formation of reactive astrocytes. These results provide a mechanism at the basis of the neuroprotection induced by A(2A) receptor antagonists in models of brain damage and highlight this adenosine receptor subtype as a novel target for the pharmacological modulation of the gliotic reaction.
Tetrahydrobiopterin attenuates homocysteine induced endothelial dysfunction.	Homocysteine is an independent risk factor for atherosclerotic vascular disease. It impairs endothelial function via increasing superoxide production and quenching nitric oxide (NO) release. Tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) is a critical cofactor that couples nitric oxide synthase and facilitates the production of nitric oxide (vs. superoxide anions). In the first study, the effects of hyperhomocysteinemia (0.1 mM, 3 h) on endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation to ACh and A23187 were examined in isolated segments of rat aortae in the presence or absence of BH4 (0.1 mM). In the second study, the effects of hyperhomocysteinemia (24 h) on nitric oxide production and superoxide release (using lucigenin chemiluminescence) were studied in human umbilical vein endothelial cells in the absence or presence of BH4 (10 microM). Homocysteine incubation impaired receptor-dependent and -independent endothelial function to ACh and A23187. This effect was attenuated by BH4. Furthermore, homocysteine exposure increased superoxide production and impaired agonist-stimulated nitric oxide release. These effects were attenuated by BH4 (p < 0.05). Hyperhomocysteinemia impairs endothelial function, in part due to a diminished bioavailability of BH4 with resultant uncoupling of nitric oxide synthase. BH4 may represent an important target for strategies aimed at improving endothelial dysfunction secondary to hyperhomocysteinemia.
Effect of cilostazol on vasomotor reactivity in patients with vasospastic angina pectoris.	We examined the effects of cilostazol on impaired coronary arterial responses in patients with vasospastic angina (VSA). Thirty patients who were diagnosed with VSA based on an acetylcholine provocation test and 10 subjects with normal coronary arteries were enrolled. The patients were divided into the following 3 groups: no antiplatelet agent treatment group, aspirin treatment, or cilostazol treatment groups. Coronary flow reserve (CFR), coronary flow volume at maximum hyperemia, and epicardial coronary artery diameter after administration of N(G)-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) were examined using a Doppler flow wire before and 6 months after the start of this study. CFR, coronary flow volume at maximum hyperemia, and diameter changes by L-NMMA were significantly increased in the cilostazol treatment group compared with the other 2 groups. In conclusion, cilostazol increased CFR and flow-dependent coronary dilation; these changes were attributable to nitric oxide. Cilostazol may improve coronary vascular endothelial dysfunction and coronary hemodynamics in patients with VSA.
Drugs modifying nitric oxide metabolism affect plasma cholesterol levels, coagulation parameters, blood pressure values and the appearance of plasma myocardial necrosis markers in rabbits: opposite effects of L-NAME and nitroglycerine.	Various experiments have shown that decreased nitric oxide values alter plasma lipid levels or coagulation parameters or blood pressure values or cause myocardial necrosis phenomena, but it is not clear whether these alterations are reciprocally connected, or whether nitric oxide changes are involved in the appearance of some coronary disease risk factors (lipid, coagulation, blood pressure alterations) and myocardial necrosis.
Evaluation of the effects of sildenafil citrate (Viagra) on canine renal artery, carotid and aortic blood flow with the aid of color Doppler sonography.	Erectile dysfunction is the inability to achieve or maintain an erection sufficient for satisfactory sexual performance. Oral use of sildenafil citrate has been proved to be effective in the treatment of erectile dysfunction. Although the effects of sildenafil citrate have been investigated in several studies, its effect on aortic, carotid and renal artery blood flow is unknown. The aim of this study was to investigate the early and late phase effects of sildenafil citrate on canine aortic, carotid and renal artery blood flow using color Doppler sonography (CDS).
Analysis of factors that determine the compliance of rat jejunum to distension in vivo.	Distension of the intestine is commonly used to elicit reflex responses at other sites in the gastrointestinal tract, and also to evaluate pain of intestinal origin. The sensory neurones, that initiate the reflexes or pain responses, react to the forces generated in the wall of the intestine. Thus, the responses of the intestine at the site of distension, particularly changes in contractile activity, influence the signals from the gut. In the present work we have analysed the relationship between distension and pressure changes in the jejunum of the rat, in vivo. Isovolumic distension for 5 min caused an initial pressure increase which declined quickly in the first 30 s, and then declined more slowly. Phasic pressure increases were superimposed on the baseline pressure change. Hexamethonium blocked the phasic pressure increases, whereas the initial rapid and subsequent slower pressure decline during distension persisted. Inhibition of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) increased intraluminal pressure and caused increased frequency and irregularity of phasic pressure increases. However, the decline in jejunal pressure during distension was not changed by inhibition of NOS. The pressure decline during isovolumic distension was similar whether saline or paraffin oil were used to distend the intestine, indicating that the decline was not due to increased hydrostatic pressure causing water and electrolyte to cross the mucosal epithelium from the lumen to the intestinal interstitium. Hyoscine had no significant effect on the pressure profile when the intestine was distended. However, when the systemic or the local circulation of the jejunum was infused with nicardipine, the pressure that was achieved during isovolumic distension was less, although the rate of change in pressure during the slow decline was similar. It is concluded that distension evokes phasic pressure increases in the jejunum, that are nerve-mediated, and increases the tension in the wall through a stretch-activated increase in contractile force generated by the circular muscle. The decline in pressure during maintained distension is primarily a consequence of visco-elastic properties of the wall of the intestine.
Effect of 0.2 percent glyceryl trinitrate ointment on wound healing after a hemorrhoidectomy: results of a randomized, prospective, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial.	Glyceryl trinitrate ointment acts as a dilator of the internal anal sphincter. It has been used as a treatment modality that replaces the lateral sphincterotomy in chronic anal fissures. When glyceryl trinitrate ointment is applied to the wound from a hemorrhoidectomy, it is thought that it will shorten the healing time and decrease postoperative pain. Our study focused on the efficacy of using 0.2 percent glyceryl trinitrate ointment to shorten the healing time after a hemorrhoidectomy.
Oral sildenafil as long-term adjunct therapy to inhaled iloprost in severe pulmonary arterial hypertension.	We sought to investigate the impact of adjunct sildenafil on exercise capacity and hemodynamic parameters in patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) who fulfilled predefined criteria of deterioration despite ongoing treatment with inhaled iloprost.
Acquired microvascular dysfunction in inflammatory bowel disease: Loss of nitric oxide-mediated vasodilation.	Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD; i.e., Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis) is characterized by refractory inflammatory ulceration and damage to the intestine. Mechanisms underlying impaired healing are not defined. Because microvascular dysfunction resulting in diminished vasodilatory capacity and tissue hypoperfusion is associated with impaired wound healing, we hypothesized that microvascular dysfunction may also occur in chronic IBD.
Endothelium-dependent relaxation in response to poly-L-arginine in canine coronary arteries: implications about hyperpolarization as a mechanism of vasodilatation.	To study the mechanism by which poly-L-arginine mediates endothelium-dependent relaxation.
Somatosensory evoked potential and histopathological investigations in ischaemia-induced brain damage: effects of trimetazidine in rats.	We studied the protective effects of trimetazidine (TMZ) on brain damage by means of somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) in rats. The TMZ group did not show any statistically significant difference from the control group with respect to SEPs. However, the percentage of cells with ischaemic cell damage in hippocampal regions was significantly smaller in the TMZ group than the control group. Trimetazidine reduced the number of damaged cells in the cerebral tissue during the ischaemia-reperfusion damage. It was suggested that higher doses of trimetazidine may further reduce the number of cells with ischaemic damage.
Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide, effects in the human nose.	Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating peptide (PACAP) is a neuropeptide with strong vaso- and bronchodilator capacity. There is recent evidence that PACAP decreases the release of proinflammatory cytokines and we have previously shown that PACAP inhibits neutrophil chemotaxis in vitro, but little is known about the effects of PACAP in human upper and lower airways.
Chronic exercise reduces adhesion molecules/iNOS expression and partially reverses vascular responsiveness in hypercholesterolemic rabbit aortae.	To investigate exercise effects on the vascular function in hypercholesterolemia, male New Zealand White rabbits were divided into four groups; i.e. the normal diet control, the high cholesterol diet control, normal diet with exercise, and high cholesterol diet with exercise. High cholesterol diet groups were fed 2% cholesterol rabbit chow for 8 weeks. Animals of exercise groups ran on a treadmill at 0.88 km/h for 10-60 min/day, 5 day/week, and 8 weeks in total. Thoracic aortae were, then, isolated for functional and immunohistochemical analysis. We found that in rabbit aortae, (1). high cholesterol diet feeding caused lipid deposition and intimal thickening, induced expression of P-selectin, VCAM-1, MCP-1 and iNOS, and impaired acetylcholine (ACh)-evoked vasorelaxation; (2). exercise significantly reduced the protein expression of adhesion molecules/iNOS, and the intimal thickness in hypercholesterolemia; (3). chronic exercise enhanced ACh-evoked vasorelaxation in normal rabbits, but it only significantly improved vascular responses to the high dose (10(-6) M) of ACh in hypercholesterolemic rabbits; (4). both exercise and diet effects on vascular responses were mediated by altering the release of NO and endothelium-derived hyperpolarization factor. We conclude that exercise training decreases the expression of adhesion molecules and iNOS, and ameliorates the severe vascular dysfunction induced by high cholesterol feeding.
Elevated non-esterified fatty acids impair nitric oxide independent vasodilation, in humans: evidence for a role of inwardly rectifying potassium channels.	To evaluate the role of elevation of non-esterified fatty acids on forearm nitric oxide (NO) dependent and independent relaxation, four studies were performed in the forearms of 14 normals: (1). endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilations were assessed during acetylcholine (Ach) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) infusions; (2). flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) was assessed; (3) .bradykinin (BK) was infused during NO and prostaglandin inhibition (NO clamp); (4). blood flow (FBF) was measured during Ouabain, a Na(+)/K(+) ATPase, and BaCl(2), rectifying potassium channel (K(IR)) blockers, respectively. All studies were performed before and after 120 min. Intralipid+heparin (high-NEFA) infusion. Ach-mediated FBF increase was lower at high-NEFA (332+/-34 vs. 436+/-44% at 45 microg l forearm(-1) min(-1); % of ratio infused: control arm P<0.05), while SNP response was similar. FMD did not differ before and during high-NEFA, which induced a blunted response of FBF during BK with or without NO clamp. Ouabain and BaCl(2)-mediated FBF inhibition was lower (P<0.01) at high-NEFA. During ouabain alone FBF decreased slightly.
Interaction of physical training and chronic nitroglycerin treatment on blood pressure, nitric oxide, and oxidants/antioxidants in the rat heart.	Many individuals with cardiovascular diseases undergo physical conditioning with or without medication. Therefore, this study investigated the interaction of exercise training and chronic nitroglycerin treatment on blood pressure (BP) and changes in cardiac nitric oxide (NO) and antioxidants in rats. Fisher 344 rats were divided into four groups treated as: (1) sedentary control, (2) exercise training for 8 weeks, (3) nitroglycerin (15 mg/kg, s.c. for 8 weeks), and (4) training+nitroglycerin for 8 weeks. Respiratory exchange ratio (RER), BP, and heart rate (HR) were monitored weekly for 8 weeks. The animals were sacrificed 24 h after last treatments, hearts isolated, and analyzed. Physical conditioning significantly increased RER, cardiac NO levels, and endothelial eNOS protein expression. Training significantly enhanced cardiac glutathione (GSH) levels, GSH/GSSG ratio, and the up-regulation of cardiac copper/zinc-superoxide dismutase (CuZn-SOD), manganese (Mn)-SOD, catalase (CAT), glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities, and protein expression. Training also caused depletion of cardiac malondialdehyde (MDA) and protein carbonyls with a significant increase in RER without any change in BP and HR. Chronic nitroglycerin administration significantly increased cardiac NO levels and eNOS protein expression. Nitroglycerin administration significantly enhanced cardiac Mn-SOD, CAT, and GST activities, and protein expression with decreased MDA levels and BP. Interaction of training and chronic nitroglycerin treatment increased cardiac NO levels with enhanced eNOS and iNOS protein expressions, GSH/GSSG ratio, and the up-regulation of antioxidant enzymes. This interaction normalized BP and HR and increased RER. The data suggest that the interaction of physical training and chronic nitroglycerin treatment resulted in the maintenance of BP and RER by up-regulating the antioxidants and NO levels and by reducing the oxidative stress in the rat heart.
Effects of chronic systemic hypoxia on contraction evoked by noradrenaline in the rat iliac artery.	Comparisons were made between responses evoked by noradrenaline (NA) in iliac artery rings from normoxic (N) rats and chronically hypoxic (CH) rats kept in 12 % O(2) for 3-4 weeks. At P(O(2)) of 100 mmHg, cumulative concentration-response curves (CCRC) to NA were greatly depressed in endothelium-intact (E+) rings, but not endothelium-denuded (E-) rings, of CH rats relative to N rats. However, CCRCs evoked by NA in E+ and E- rings during nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibition were similar in N and CH rats. Reducing P(O(2)) to 55 mmHg depressed CCRCs to NA in E+ and E- rings of CH and N rats in the absence and presence of NO synthase inhibition. At P(O(2)) of 100 mmHg, CCRCs evoked by phenylephrine were comparable in E+ and E- rings of N and CH rats as were CCRCs for the relaxation evoked by isoprenaline, which were similarly rightward shifted by NO synthase inhibition. However, CCRCs evoked by the NO donor sodium nitroprusside were leftward shifted in E- rings of CH rats relative to N rats. Further, in the presence of the alpha(2) adrenoceptor inhibitor rauwolscine, CCRCs to NA were comparable in E+ rings of CH and N rats. Thus, the depressive effects of chronic hypoxia on NA-evoked contractions of iliac artery are additional to those of acute hypoxia. We propose that they reflect a facilitation of the contribution of NO to alpha(2) adrenoceptor-evoked relaxation that includes an increased sensitivity of the vascular smooth muscle of arteries from CH rats to NO.
Effects of hypoglycemia on the cerebral circulation in awake goats.	We electromagnetically measured blood flow to one cerebral hemisphere and determined cerebrovascular reactivity to vasoconstrictor and vasodilator stimuli during normoglycemia and insulin-induced hypoglycemia in unanesthetized goats. Control blood glucose concentration was 84 +/- 4 mg, and insulin, injected intravenously, decreased glycemia with a concomitant increment in cerebral blood flow and reduction in cerebrovascular resistance in all the animals. When glycemia decreased to 60 to 65 mg/dl, the animals began to show signs of increased adrenergic activity, and when it decreased to less than 30 mg/dl, they showed signs of CNS depression. Cerebral blood flow began to rise significantly at a glycemia of 50 to 55 mg/dl, and progressively increased to reach an increment of 36% +/- 4% when glycemia was less than 30 mg/dl. Norepinephrine (0.3 to 9 micrograms), tyramine (50 to 500 micrograms), and 5-hydroxytryptamine (0.1 to 9 micrograms) reduced cerebral blood flow, and this effect was lower during severe hypoglycemia. Acetylcholine (0.01 to 1 microgram), isoproterenol (0.03 to 3 micrograms), diazoxide (0.3 to 9 mg), and inhalation of 10% CO2 in air increased cerebral blood flow, and this effect was also lower during severe hypoglycemia. The results show that insulin-induced hypoglycemia causes cerebral vasodilation and reduction of the capacity of cerebral blood vessels to constrict and dilate. They also show that the glycemic thresholds for increasing cerebral blood flow are near to, or slightly lower than, the thresholds for hypoglycemic symptoms. This experimental model of hypoglycemia closely resembles the conditions in hypoglycemic patients and permits serial evaluation of the cerebrovascular effects of hypoglycemia without using anesthesia.
Similarities between effects of superoxide-mediated endothelium-derived relaxing factor and cromakalim.	A stable endothelium-derived relaxing factor has been reported to be generated on exposure of endothelial cells to the superoxide anion. In this study, we first evaluated the effects of the relaxing factor and cromakalim on mechanical tone and, second, assessed their consequences on the 86Rb efflux rate. On application of hypoxanthine-xanthine oxidase to a bath for generating superoxide anion, the precontracted rabbit mesenteric artery exhibited another transient increase in contraction, followed by sustained relaxation. This relaxation was lost in the K(+)-physiological salt solution (PSS) (greater than 35 mM) and was inhibited by glibenclamide (10 microM) but not by N-methyl-L-arginine or methylene blue. Hypoxanthine-xanthine oxidase application did not increase either basal or stimulated synthesis of guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate. In the presence of 2 mM ethylene glycol-bis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid and 10 mM MgCl2, the relaxing factor caused a significant increase in 86Rb efflux from the aortic and mesenteric arterial segments, as did the cromakalim. The increased 86Rb efflux, either by the relaxing factor or by cromakalim, was wholly inhibited by glibenclamide. These results suggest that superoxide-mediated endogenous relaxing factor may have a similar mechanism of action to cromakalim in vasodilatation.
Oral administration of carvedilol and prazosin inhibits the prostaglandin F2 alpha- and noradrenaline-induced contraction of human hand veins in vivo.	Carvedilol is a beta-blocker with additional vasodilating activity. This study was performed in order to determine whether the vasodilator action of orally administered carvedilol in man is based upon an alpha-adrenoceptor antagonism exclusively or if evidence for an additional mechanism could be confirmed. The influence of carvedilol (50 mg p.o.) and prazosin (2 mg p.o.) upon the vasoconstrictor effect of noradrenaline and prostaglandin F2 alpha, infused into superficial hand veins, was established in 8 healthy male volunteers. Increasing dosages of the vasoconstrictors below their threshold of systemic activity were employed in order to obtain dose-response curves of the hand veins congested at a venous occlusion pressure of 40 mmHg. These dose-response curves were repeated 1 and 3.5 h after oral administration of either carvedilol, prazosin, or placebo. The ex vivo, in vitro alpha 1-receptor occupancy in plasma was measured before and after each vasoconstrictor dose-response curve, using an alpha 1-radioreceptor binding assay. Washout periods of 48 h were kept between study days, investigating the influence of one orally administered drug upon one of the local vasoconstrictor dose-response curves at a time. In the alpha 1-radioreceptor assay, plasma concentrations from 0.9- to 1.7-fold the equilibrium dissociation constant (Ki) of carvedilol could be evaluated 1 as well as 3.5 h after medication, corresponding with a receptor occupancy of 44%-63%. After prazosin, 9-13 times the Ki values were determined, which amounts to an alpha 1-adrenoceptor occupation of about 90%-93%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Nitric oxide is a potent relaxant of human and rabbit corpus cavernosum.	Nitric oxide (NO) caused a potent, marked, and transient relaxation of precontracted strips of corpus cavernosum isolated from humans and rabbits. The relaxation response elicited by NO was very similar to the relaxation evoked by electrical field stimulation via the nonadrenergic-noncholinergic pathway. Sodium nitroprusside, nitroglycerin, and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, which are nitrovasodilators known to generate NO, also caused marked concentration-dependent relaxation of corpus cavernosum. Relaxant responses to NO were enhanced by the cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase inhibitor M&B 22,948 and inhibited by oxyhemoglobin. Similarly, relaxation of corpus cavernosum in response to electrical field stimulation or acetylcholine was enhanced by M&B 22,948 and inhibited by oxyhemoglobin. NO stimulated cyclic GMP formation in corpus cavernosum and a close positive correlation was found between the magnitudes of relaxation and cyclic GMP formation. The data suggest that NO-elicited activation of guanylate cyclase and cyclic GMP formation represents the signal transduction mechanism responsible for relaxation and nonadrenergic-noncholinergic-mediated penile erection. These observations indicate that NO is a potent relaxant of human and rabbit corpus cavernosum and support our hypothesis that endogenous NO is the principal mediator of penile erection caused by nonadrenergic-noncholinergic stimulation.
Endothelium-dependent relaxation of rabbit middle cerebral artery to a histamine H3-agonist is reduced by inhibitors of nitric oxide and prostacyclin synthesis.	1. The possible involvement of prostanoids and endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) in the vasodilatation induced by a histamine H3-agonist was examined in the rabbit perfused middle cerebral artery preconstricted with K+ (50 mM). 2. The endothelium-dependent relaxation to (R)-alpha-methylhistamine [(R)-alpha-MeHA] was competitively antagonized by thioperamide (an H3-antagonist) with a pA2 of 9.05, but unaffected by propranolol, atropine, L- and D-sulpiride. This effect was stereoselective since the (S)-isomer was 100 times less potent than the (R)-isomer. 3. Two inhibitors of nitric oxide synthesis, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), inhibited the relaxation induced by (R)-alpha-methylhistamine. The inhibitory effects of 10(-5) M NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester and 10(-5) M NG-monomethyl-L-arginine were reversed by equimolar concentrations of L-arginine, but strongly enhanced by 10(-4) M tranylcypromine. Tranylcypromine alone (10(-5) M-10(-4) M) partially reduced the (R)-alpha-methylhistamine-induced relaxation. Both dexamethasone and indomethacin also inhibited this relaxation. 4. The results suggest that the H3-mediated relaxation of the rabbit middle cerebral artery may involve release of both a prostanoid, probably prostacyclin, and endothelium-derived relaxing factor. The relaxant effects of these two endogenous compounds appear to be synergistic.
Clinical pharmacology of carvedilol.	Animal work has shown that carvedilol is a nonselective beta-blocking drug. It has a vasodilator action from alpha-receptor blockade, but there is evidence that it has further action to relax smooth muscle, possibly from calcium channel antagonism. Carvedilol is lipid soluble and 25% bioavailable, and it has a half-life of about 7 h. It lowers blood pressure at rest and reduces the tachycardia and the rise of blood pressure on exercise. It reduces the level of blood pressure reached during isometric exercise or the cold pressor test. Cardiac output at rest is maintained, and the haemodynamics in the compromised heart is improved. It has an important peripheral vasodilator action, peripheral flow being maintained to important organs, e.g. kidneys, despite the fall in blood pressure. Exercising renin and noradrenaline levels are increased, as are the latter at rest. Carvedilol is lipid neutral. Carvedilol shifts the dose-response curve to isoprenaline to the right, as well as to alpha-stimulants such as phenylephrine. Responses to angiotensin are little affected. The ratio of beta- to alpha-blockade has been found to be 7.6 for 50 mg and 12.5 for 100 mg of carvedilol. There is no evidence of a decline in alpha-blockade after 1 week of continuous administration.
Inhibitors of calmodulin impair the constitutive but not the inducible nitric oxide synthase activity in the rat aorta.	The possibility that calmodulin inhibitors impair the constitutive but not the inducible nitric oxide synthase(s)-mediated inhibitions of tone was investigated in the rat aorta. The endothelium-dependent relaxations evoked by acetylcholine, ATP and the calcium ionophore A23187 (which are mediated by the constitutive nitric oxide synthase) were inhibited by calmodulin inhibitors [calmidazolium, W-7 and (N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalene-sulfonamide, hydrochloride, fendiline] and by an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, nitro L-arginine. Nitro L-arginine but not calmidazolium reduced the inhibitory influence of the endothelium on the concentration-contraction curves evoked by phenylephrine. Treatment of aortic rings without endothelium with interleukin-1 beta inhibited the contractions to phenylephrine by inducing nitric oxide synthase activity. Nitro L-arginine but not calmidazolium restored the contractility of the aortic rings. The relaxations evoked by a donor of nitric oxide, 3-morpholino-sydnonimine, were minimally affected by calmidazolium and nitro L-arginine. The basal tissue content in, and the production of, guanosine 3',5' cyclic monophosphate evoked by acetylcholine in rings with endothelium were inhibited by calmidazolium and nitro L-arginine. The production of cyclic GMP evoked by interleukin-1 beta in rings without endothelium was inhibited by nitro L-arginine but not by calmidazolium. These observations indicate that calmodulin inhibitors inhibit the constitutive but not the inducible nitric oxide synthase(s) in the rat aorta.
Spasmolytic action of nicorandil in canine conductive coronary arteries in vivo is not modified by glibenclamide.	The spasmolytic effects of nicorandil, cromakalim, and nitroglycerin on coronary arteries were investigated by angiographic technique in anesthetized dogs. With intracoronary arterial (i.a.) U 46619, a thromboxane A2 mimetic, the diameter of coronary arteries decreased in a sustained manner by 36.1 +/- 1.6% from control levels (coronary spasm). With a successive i.a. injection of nicorandil (300 micrograms), cromakalim (30 micrograms), or nitroglycerin (3 micrograms), the diameter recovered control levels (102.9 +/- 3.9, 96.8 +/- 5.6, and 100.1 +/- 4.3%, respectively). In dogs treated intravenously (i.v.) with glibenclamide, a pharmacologic antagonist of K-channel openers, the spasmolytic effect of cromakalim was significantly reduced, whereas the activity of nicorandil or nitroglycerin remained unaffected. We also investigated a possible modification by glibenclamide of the increase in coronary blood flow (CBF) induced by i.a. nicorandil and cromakalim in anesthetized dogs. The dose-dependent blood flow responses to cromakalim and nicorandil were significantly attenuated by glibenclamide, whereas the response to nitroglycerin remained unaffected. These results suggest that the spasmolytic effect of nicorandil on canine conductive coronary vessels is not mediated by K-channel opening but by a nitroglycerin-like action and that the dilatation of resistive coronary vessels induced by nicorandil may be largely due to its action as a K-channel opener.
Cardiovascular effects of a novel calcium entry blocking and selective beta 1-adrenoceptor blocking agent, YM-16151-4, in anesthetized and conscious dogs.	Cardiovascular effects of YM-16151-4, a combined calcium entry blocking and beta 1-adrenoceptor blocking agent, were evaluated in dogs. In anesthetized dogs, YM-16151-4 (0.01-1 mg/kg intravenously, i.v.) dose-dependently increased coronary blood flow (CBF) and decreased mean blood pressure (MBP), total peripheral resistance (TPR), dP/dtmax, double product, and left ventricular (LV) work without increasing heart rate (HR) and cardiac output (CO). YM-16151-4 increased vertebral blood flow as well as CBF, but had no effect on carotid, mesenteric, renal, and femoral blood flow. Coronary vasodilating activity of YM-16151-4 was also observed after intracoronary artery injection (i.a.). In anesthetized and vagotomized dogs, YM-16151-4 dose-dependently inhibited isoproterenol (0.2 micrograms/kg i.v.)-induced tachycardia and decrease in diastolic BP (DBP), with ED50 values of 0.039 and 0.52 mg/kg i.v., respectively. In conscious dogs, YM-16151-4 (0.1-1 mg/kg i.v.) produced a dose-dependent hypotensive effect with no effect on HR or PQ-interval. The hypotensive effect of YM-16151-4 (0.3 and 1 mg/kg i.v.) reached its maximum approximately 1-2 h after each dosing and lasted 6-8 h. These results suggest that YM-16151-4 actually behaves as a hybrid compound, combining calcium entry blocking and beta 1-adrenoceptor blocking activities, and that this compound could be a novel long-acting antianginal and antihypertensive agent.
Involvement of capsaicin-sensitive neurones in the haemodynamic effects of exogenous vasoactive peptides: studies in conscious, adult Long Evans rats treated neonatally with capsaicin.	1. The regional haemodynamic effects of i.v. bolus injections of bradykinin (0.05 or 0.5 nmol), cholecystokinin (0.175 or 1.75 nmol), substance P (0.01 or 0.1 nmol) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (0.05 or 0.5 nmol) were assessed in conscious, adult Long Evans rats that had been treated neonatally with either capsaicin (50 mg kg-1, s.c.) or vehicle. 2. In vehicle-treated rats, both doses of bradykinin were without effect on blood pressure, but caused tachycardia and hindquarters vasodilatation. Moreover, after the higher dose there were dilatations in the renal and superior mesenteric vascular beds. In capsaicin-treated rats the hindquarters vasodilator effects elicited by both doses of bradykinin were significantly reduced, while the tachycardia and responses in the renal and superior mesenteric vascular beds were unchanged. 3. In vehicle-treated rats, cholecystokinin caused dose-dependent increases in blood pressure accompanied by renal, superior mesenteric and hindquarters vasoconstriction followed, after the higher dose, by a hindquarters vasodilatation. The lower dose produced a tachycardia, while there was a bradycardia followed by a tachycardia after the higher dose. In capsaicin-treated rats, the pressor response, as well as the renal vasoconstrictor effects of cholecystokinin, were greater than in vehicle-treated rats, while the heart rate, superior mesenteric or hindquarters responses were not different. 4. In vehicle-treated rats, substance P produced a dose-dependent depressor response and tachycardia accompanied by dilatations in the renal and hindquarters vascular beds and constriction in the superior mesenteric vascular bed. In capsaicin-treated rats, the responses to the lower dose of substance P were not different from those in vehicle-treated rats, while the depressor response to the higher dose of substance P was slightly less than in vehicle-treated rats and the renal vasodilatation was absent.5. In vehicle-treated rats, calcitonin gene-related peptide caused dose-dependent hypotensive and tachycardic effects associated with dilatations in renal and hindquarters vascular beds and a constriction in the superior mesenteric vascular bed. After the higher dose, the renal vasodilatation was followed by a modest vasoconstriction. In capsaicin-treated rats, the depressor responses to both doses of calcitonin generelated peptide were slightly more prolonged than in vehicle-treated animals, whereas the heart rate and renal and mesenteric vascular conductance changes were not significantly different. However, there was a more sustained hindquarters vasodilator response to the higher dose of calcitonin gene-related peptide in the capsaicin-treated rats.6. The results suggest that peripheral, capsaicin-sensitive neurones are involved in the cardiovascular responses to exogenous bradykinin and cholecystokinin in conscious rats. It does not appear that the extent of involvement of these neurones is underestimated on account of development of marked supersensitivity to the peptides they normally release, since responses to such peptides (e.g. substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide) are relatively normal in capsaicin-treated rats.
Chronic arterial vasodilation, central hemodynamics, and cardiac hypertrophy in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	To determine the possible contribution of cardiac volume overload in the failure of arterial vasodilators to induce regression of left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH), we evaluated in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) the changes in central hemodynamics caused by treatment with hydralazine or minoxidil. Cardiac output measured by the thermodilution technique and filling pressures were measured in conscious, freely moving rats. Increases in cardiac output were observed after 1 day of treatment, and persisted during chronic treatment; ganglionic blockade did not affect this increase. However, the LV end-diastolic pressure and right atrial pressure of SHRs were not increased by hydralazine or minoxidil. Minoxidil increased the LV weight, and decreased the LV wall thickness to LV internal radius ratio, whereas hydralazine did not change these parameters. We conclude that in SHRs changes in filling pressures do not represent the primary stimulus for the persistence or progression of cardiac hypertrophy during chronic arterial vasodilation.
Nitric oxide mediates protective effect of endothelin receptor antagonism during myocardial ischemia and reperfusion.	Endothelin (ET) receptor antagonism protects from ischemia-reperfusion injury. We hypothesized that the cardioprotective effect is related to nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Buffer-perfused rat and mouse hearts were subjected to ischemia and reperfusion. At the onset of ischemia, the rat hearts received vehicle, the dual endothelin type A/type B (ETA/ETB) receptor antagonist bosentan (10 microM), the NO synthase inhibitor NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA; 100 microM), the combination of bosentan and L-NMMA or the combination of bosentan, L-NMMA, and the NO substrate L-arginine (1 mM). Hearts from wild-type and endothelial NO synthase (eNOS)-deficient mice received either vehicle or bosentan. Myocardial performance, endothelial function, NO outflow, and eNOS expression were monitored. Bosentan significantly improved myocardial function during reperfusion in rats and in wild-type mice, but not in eNOS-deficient mice. The functional protection afforded by bosentan was inhibited by L-NMMA, whereas it was restored by L-arginine. Myocardial expression of eNOS (immunoblotting) increased significantly in bosentan-treated rat hearts compared with vehicle hearts. Recovery of NO outflow during reperfusion was enhanced in the bosentan-treated rat heart. The endothelium-dependent vasodilator adenosine diphosphate increased coronary flow by 18 +/- 9% at the end of reperfusion in the bosentan group, whereas it reduced coronary flow by 7 +/- 5% in the vehicle group (P < 0.001). The response to the endothelium-independent dilator sodium nitroprusside was not different between the two groups. In conclusion, the dual ETA/ETB receptor antagonist bosentan preserved endothelial and cardiac contractile function during ischemia and reperfusion via a mechanism dependent on endothelial NO production.
Estradiol-induced expression of N(+)-K(+)-ATPase catalytic isoforms in rat arteries: gender differences in activity mediated by nitric oxide donors.	We tested the hypothesis that previously demonstrated gender differences in ACh-induced vascular relaxation could involve diverse Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase functions. We determined Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase by measuring arterial ouabain-sensitive 86Rb uptake in response to ACh. We found a significant increase of Na+ pump activity only in aortic rings from female rats (control 206 +/- 11 vs. 367 +/- 29 nmol 86Rb/K.min(-1).g wt tissue(-1); P < 0.01). Ovariectomy eliminated sex differences in Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase function, and chronic in vivo hormone replacement with 17beta-estradiol restored the ACh effect on Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase. Because ACh acts by enhancing production of NO, we examined whether the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) mimics the action of ACh on Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity. SNP increased ouabain-sensitive 86Rb uptake in denuded female arteries (control 123 +/- 7 vs. 197 +/- 12 nmol 86Rb/K.min(-1).g wt tissue(-1); P < 0.05). Methylene blue (an inhibitor of guanylate cyclase) and KT-5823 (a cGMP-dependent kinase inhibitor) blocked the stimulatory action of SNP. Exposure of female thoracic aorta to the Na+/K+ pump inhibitor ouabain significantly decreased SNP-induced and ACh-mediated relaxation of aortic rings. At the molecular level, Western blot analysis of arterial tissue revealed significant gender differences in the relative abundance of catalytic isoforms of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase. Female-derived aortas exhibited a greater proportion of alpha2-isoform (44%) compared with male-derived aortas. Furthermore, estradiol upregulated the expression of alpha2 mRNA in male arterial explants. Our results demonstrate that enhancement of ACh-induced relaxation observed in female rats may be in part explained by 1) NO-dependent increased Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase activity in female vascular tissue and 2) greater abundance of Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase alpha2-isoform in females.
Influence of exercise on dilatation of the basilar artery during diabetes mellitus.	Our goal was to examine whether exercise training alleviates impaired nitric oxide synthase (NOS)-dependent dilatation of the basilar artery in Type 1 diabetic rats. To test this hypothesis, we measured in vivo diameter of the basilar artery in sedentary and exercised nondiabetic and diabetic rats in response to NOS-dependent (acetylcholine) and -independent (nitroglycerin) agonists. To determine the potential role for nitric oxide in vasodilatation in sedentary and exercised nondiabetic and diabetic rats, we examined responses after NG-monomethyl-l-arginine (l-NMMA). We found that acetylcholine produced dilatation of the basilar artery that was similar in sedentary and exercised nondiabetic rats. Acetylcholine produced only minimal vasodilatation in sedentary diabetic rats. However, exercise alleviated impaired acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation in diabetic rats. Nitroglycerin produced dilatation of the basilar artery that was similar in sedentary and exercised nondiabetic and diabetic rats. l-NMMA produced similar inhibition of acetylcholine-induced dilatation of the basilar artery in sedentary and exercised nondiabetic and diabetic rats. Finally, we found that endothelial NOS (eNOS) protein in the basilar artery was higher in diabetic compared with nondiabetic rats and that exercise increased eNOS protein in the basilar artery of nondiabetic and diabetic rats. We conclude that 1) exercise can alleviate impaired NOS-dependent dilatation of the basilar artery during diabetes mellitus, 2) the synthesis and release of nitric oxide accounts for dilatation of the basilar artery to acetylcholine in sedentary and exercised nondiabetic and diabetic rats, and 3) exercise may exert its affect on cerebrovascular reactivity during diabetes by altering levels of eNOS protein in the basilar artery.
Potassium channel dysfunction in cerebral arteries of insulin-resistant rats is mediated by reactive oxygen species.	Insulin resistance (IR) increases the risk of stroke in humans. One possible underlying factor is cerebrovascular dysfunction resulting from altered K(+) channel function. Thus, the goal of this study was to examine K+ channel-mediated relaxation in IR cerebral arteries.
Nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside dilates rat small arteries by activation of inward rectifier potassium channels.	The role of vascular smooth muscle inward rectifier K+ (K(IR)) channels in the mechanisms underlying vasodilation is still unclear. The hypothesis that K(IR) channels are involved in sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced dilation of rat-tail small arteries was tested. SNP relaxed tail small arteries with an EC50 of 2.6x10(-8) mol/L. Endothelium removal did not attenuate this effect. Vessel pretreatment with hydroxocobalamin, a nitric oxide (NO) scavenger, but not with rhodanese and sodium thiosulfate, inactivators of cyanide (CN), abolished the SNP effect. Vessel pretreatment with 10(-5) mol/L Ba2+, a specific blocker of K(IR) channels at micromolar concentrations, reduced the SNP effect. Low concentrations of K+ dilated the vessels; this effect was attenuated largely after pretreatment with 3x10(-5) mol/L Ba2+. In freshly isolated smooth muscle cells, a barium-sensitive current was observed at potentials negative to the potassium equilibrium potential. Application of 10(-4) mol/L SNP increased the barium-sensitive current 1.79+/-0.23-fold at -100 mV and hyperpolarized the membrane potential by 8.6+/-0.5 mV. In tissue from freshly dissected vessels, transcripts for K(IR) 2.1 and 2.2, but not for K(IR) 2.3 and 2.4, were found. However, only K(IR) 2.1 antibodies immunostained the tunica media of the vessel. These data suggest that vascular smooth muscle K(IR) 2.1 channels are involved in the SNP-induced dilation of rat-tail small arteries.
Abnormal vasoconstrictor responses to angiotensin II and noradrenaline in isolated small arteries from patients with cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL).	Cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) is characterized by ultrastructural abnormalities in small cerebral and systemic vessels. We assessed vasomotor function in systemic small arteries in CADASIL.
Vasorelaxation and hyperpolarisation of rat small mesenteric artery by the quaternary anion tetraphenylboron.	This study characterises the vasorelaxation and hyperpolarisation effects of the negatively charged quaternary compound tetraphenylboron (TPB) in the rat small mesenteric artery. Segments of rat small mesenteric artery were mounted in a myograph and vessel tone and membrane potential were measured simultaneously. In vessels pre-contracted with vasopressin (0.3-0.6 nM), U46619 (30-90 nM) or methoxamine (0.3-3 microM), TPB (0.1-100 microM) produced a marked endothelium-independent relaxation. However, vasorelaxation responses to TPB were abolished in tissues pre-contracted with K(+) (50 mM), and significantly inhibited by glibenclamide (glib, 10 microM). In the absence of tone, TPB (1-30 microM) caused a concentration-dependent membrane hyperpolarisation of rat mesenteric artery smooth muscle cells, which was not dependent on the endothelium, but sensitive to glibenclamide (10 microM). In methoxamine (0.3-3 microM) pre-contracted vessels, the relaxation response was associated with a marked hyperpolarisation, which was also sensitive to glibenclamide (10 microM), further inhibited by a combination of K(+) channel blockers (glib [10 microM], charybdotoxin [100 nM], apamin [100 nM], 4-aminopyridine [1 mM] and Ba(2+) [30 microM]) and abolished by 50 mM K(+). The results of this study show that TPB causes a vasorelaxation and hyperpolarisation response in the rat small mesenteric artery through a direct action on the vascular smooth muscle. TPB exerts its effects partially via the activation of K(ATP) channels, but also by another mechanism involving K(+)-dependent hyperpolarisation.
gp91phox-containing NADPH oxidase mediates endothelial dysfunction in renovascular hypertension.	Isoforms of the NADPH oxidase contribute to vascular superoxide anion (*O2-) formation and limit NO bioavailability. We hypothesized that the endothelial gp91phox-containing NADPH oxidase is predominant in generating the O2- to scavenge endothelial NO and thus is responsible for the development of endothelial dysfunction.
Chronic nitric oxide exposure alters the balance between endothelium-derived relaxing factors released from rat renal arteries: prevention by treatment with NOX-100, a NO scavenger.	We investigated whether nitric oxide (NO) exposure alters the balance between NO and endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) released from rat renal arteries. To produce states of acutely or chronically excessive NO, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) was administered intraperitoneally to rats in a single dose of 4 mg/kg (LPS-single group) or in stepwise doses of 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 mg/kg every other day (LPS-repeated group). On the day after LPS treatment, the protein levels of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and endothelial NOS (eNOS) were measured, and the relaxation responses were determined in the renal arteries. The protein levels of iNOS markedly increased in both LPS-treated groups, while those of eNOS significantly increased in the LPS-repeated group compared with those in the respective control groups. In both LPS-treated groups, the relaxations in response to acetylcholine (ACh) and sodium nitroprusside remained unchanged. The ACh-induced relaxations in the presence of N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, a NOS inhibitor, or by 1H-[1, 2, 4-] oxadiazole [4, 3-a] quinoxalin-1-one, a soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitor, i.e. EDHF-mediated relaxations were significantly impaired in the LPS-repeated group but not in the LPS-single group, indicating increase in NO-mediated relaxation in the LPS-repeated group. These changes in the protein levels and EDHF-mediated relaxations induced by ACh observed in the LPS-repeated group were restored by treatment with NOX-100, a NO scavenger. These results suggest that persistent but not acute excessive NO exposure in rats impairs EDHF-mediated relaxation in renal arteries, leading to a compensatory upregulation of the eNOS/NO pathway.
In vivo pertussis toxin treatment reduces contraction of rat resistance arteries but not that of mouse trachea.	In order to develop an in vitro method for detecting residual pertussis toxin activity in acellular pertussis vaccines, the effects of in vivo pertussis toxin treatment on contraction and relaxation properties of isolated mouse trachea and of isolated rat small mesenteric resistance arteries were studied. In vivo pertussis toxin treatment (24 or 72 microg/kg, intraperitoneally (i.p.)) did not affect contraction and relaxation properties of isolated BALB/c or NIH mouse trachea. In vivo pertussis toxin treatment (30 microg/kg, intravenously) significantly reduced noradrenaline- or KCl-induced maximal contraction and reduced sensitivity to noradrenaline in isolated male Wistar rat small mesenteric resistance arteries. However, in vivo pertussis toxin treatment did not affect relaxation properties of isolated rat small mesenteric resistance arteries. These results support the hypothesis that vasoconstriction-regulating mechanisms and not airway constriction mechanisms are involved in pertussis toxin-induced histamine sensitisation. The vasoconstriction-regulating mechanisms may provide a lead for further development of an in vitro method for measuring biologically active pertussis toxin in acellular pertussis vaccines based on mechanisms involved in the histamine sensitisation test.
Prenatal stress changes rat arterial adrenergic reactivity in a regionally selective manner.	A suboptimal fetal environment has been linked to increased risk of cardiovascular disease in adulthood. We investigated whether intrauterine stress (IUS) alters the development of adrenergic reactivity in different types of rat arteries. Intrauterine stress was induced by ligation of the uterine arteries at day 13 of pregnancy in Wistar rats. First-order mesenteric, renal, femoral and saphenous arteries of the 21-day-old male offspring were studied in a myograph. IUS in the rat changes arterial adrenergic reactivity in a regionally selective manner. Adrenoceptor-mediated responses are altered in the renal artery. Maximal contractile responses to phenylephrine were increased, while sensitivity to the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor agonist was decreased. Intrauterine stress significantly reduced contractile responses to norepinephrine and enhanced relaxing responses to isoproterenol in the renal artery. Adrenergic responses were not modified in mesenteric, femoral and saphenous arteries. In the kidneys the densities of [(3)H]prazosin binding sites, periarterial adrenergic nerves and of the glomeruli were not altered after intrauterine stress at day 13 of gestation. The observed regionally selective alterations in arterial reactivity might link a suboptimal fetal environment to the development of cardiovascular disease in the adult.
Morphometric and histological changes in the vascular wall after external radiation for the prevention of intimal hyperplasia.	Recent reports describe spontaneous dissections and aneurysms after coronary and peripheral artery irradiation for the prevention of intimal hyperplasia. We investigated histological changes and the vasomotor reaction in the vascular wall after external radiation for the prevention of intimal hyperplasia in rabbits.
Investigation on interaction between tacrolimus and sildenafil in kidney-transplanted patients with erectile dysfunction.	Sildenafil may provide an effective treatment for erectile dysfunction, frequently observed in uremic patients and after kidney transplantation. Pharmacokinetic interactions between sildenafil and tacrolimus are to be expected due to a common elimination pathway via cytochrome P450 3A4. Therefore, the pharmacokinetics during combined use of these agents were studied over 9 days.
Relaxation effects of adrenomedullin in isolated rabbit corpus cavernosum smooth muscle.	To clarify the pharmacological effects of adrenomedullin, a potent vasodilator and hypotensive peptide isolated from human phaeochromocytoma cells, on corpus cavernosal smooth muscle in vitro, as the intracavernosal injection of adrenomedullin induces penile erection in the anaesthetized cat.
Peroxynitrite-induced relaxation in isolated canine cerebral arteries and mechanisms of action.	The present study was undertaken to determine the vascular actions of peroxynitrite (ONOO(-)), the product of superoxide and nitric oxide (NO), in isolated canine cerebral arteries and to gain insight into its potential mechanisms of action. In the absence of any vasoactive agent, ONOO(-) (from 10(-7) to 10(-6) M) was able to reduce the basal tension. In prostaglandin F2alpha-precontracted canine basilar arterial rings, ONOO(-) elicited concentration-dependent relaxation at concentrations from 10(-8) to 10(-5) M. The effective concentrations producing approximately 50% maximal relaxation (EC(50)) to ONOO(-) were 4.06 x 10(-6) and 4.12 x 10(-6) M in intact and denuded rings, respectively (P > 0.05). No significant differences in relaxation responses were found in ring preparations with or without endothelium (P > 0.05). The presence of either 5 microM methylene blue (MB) or 5 microM 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo-[4,3-alpha]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) significantly inhibited the relaxations induced by ONOO(-). Tetraethylammonium chloride (T-2265) significantly decreased the ONOO(-)-induced relaxations in a concentration-dependent manner. However, ONOO(-) had no effect on rings precontracted by high KCL (P > 0.05). Addition of low concentrations of calyculin A (50 nM) was able to abolish the ONOO(-)-induced relaxation. Furthermore, ONOO(-) significantly inhibited calcium-induced contractions of K(+)-depolarized canine cerebral rings in a concentration-related manner. Lastly, a variety of pharmacological agents and antagonists including L-NMMA, l-arginine, indomethacin, atropine, naloxone, diphenhydramine, cimetine, glibenclamide, haloperidol, etc., did not influence the relaxant effects of ONOO(-) on the rings. Our new results suggest that ONOO(-)-triggered relaxation, on canine cerebral arteries, is mediated by elevation of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels, membrane hyperpolarization via K+ channel activation, activation of myosin light chain phosphatase activity, and interference with calcium movement and cellular membrane Ca(2+) entry.
Vasoactive response of isolated pulpal arterioles to endothelin-1.	The vasoactive effect of endothelin-1 applied intraluminally or extraluminally was studied in vitro in isolated perfused porcine pulpal arterioles using a microperfusion system. Pulpal arterioles (outer diameter, 94.2 +/- 2.8 microm, n = 12) were cannulated and perfused at a constant flow rate in an environment-controlled bath on the stage of an inverted microscope. The vessel diameters were measured online. Both intraluminal and extraluminal application of endothelin-1 (10(-16) M to 10(-8) M) induced dose-dependent constrictions, reaching 82.3 +/- 1.7% (n = 12) and 70.5 +/- 1.3% (n = 12) at 10(-8) M, respectively. Nifedipine reversed endothelin-1-induced constriction dose-dependently at 10(-7) M and above. These data demonstrate that endothelin-1 induces calcium-dependent vasoconstriction in porcine pulpal arterioles, with extraluminal application more potent, which seems to reflect the possible modulation of vascular endothelium in the control of vascular tone.
Effect of amlodipine on vascular responses after coronary stenting compared with an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor.	Prevention of restenosis after coronary stenting is clinically important. We compared amlodipine and quinapril to determine which is more effective in preventing restenosis after stenting.
Analysis of the effects of phosphodiesterase type 3 and 4 inhibitors in cerebral arteries.	Inhibitors of phosphodiesterases 3 and 4, the main cyclic AMP (cAMP) degrading enzymes in arteries, may have therapeutic potential in cerebrovascular disorders. We analysed the effects of such phosphodiesterases in guinea pig cerebral arteries with organ bath technique and cyclic nucleotide assays. Guinea pig and human cerebral arteries were used for phosphodiesterase assays. Cilostazol (6-[4-(1-cyclohexyl-1H-tetrazol-5-yl)butoxy]-3,4-dihydro-2(1H)-quinolinone), a phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitor, was compared to conventional phosphodiesterase 3 and 4 inhibitors. Phosphodiesterases 3 and 4 were the major contributors to total cAMP hydrolysis in the arteries examined. The phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitors additionally attenuated cyclic GMP (cGMP) hydrolysis, but relaxant responses were not dependent on an intact endothelium or on the nitric oxide-cGMP pathway. Conversely, the phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitor used was endothelium-dependent and affected by cGMP levels. This suggests that phosphodiesterase 3 inhibitors are still effective under conditions with possible dysfunctional nitric oxide-cGMP pathway, such as in ischemic stroke or cerebral vasospasm.
Protective effect of enalapril on vascular reactivity of the rat aorta.	Cardiovascular complications are the major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM). Strategies that interrupt the renin-angiotensin system have been shown to reduce the ensuing threatening risk factors. The present study was carried out to investigate the effect of subchronic administration of enalapril on the aortic reactivity of streptozotocin (STZ)-diabetic rats. For this purpose, STZ-diabetic rats received enalapril (10 and 20 mg/kg ip) daily for 2 months. Contractile responses to phenylephrine (PE) and relaxation responses to acetylcholine (Ach) and isosorbide dinitrate (ISD) were obtained from aortic rings. Concentration-response curves from enalapril-treated diabetic (ED) rats to PE were attenuated as compared to vehicle-treated diabetics (VD), especially at a dose of 20 mg/kg for enalapril. In addition, endothelium-dependent relaxation responses induced by Ach was significantly higher in ED rats as compared to diabetic ones. The endothelium-independent relaxation responses for ISD were also found not to be significantly different among the groups. Therefore, subchronic treatment of diabetic rats with enalapril in a dose-dependent manner could prevent the functional changes in vascular reactivity in diabetic rats.
Melatonin ameliorates chronic renal failure-induced oxidative organ damage in rats.	Chronic renal failure (CRF) is associated with oxidative stress that promotes production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Melatonin, the chief secretory product of the pineal gland, was recently found to be a potent free radical scavenger and antioxidant. The aim of this study was to examine the role of melatonin in protecting the aorta, heart, corpus cavernosum, lung, diaphragm, and kidney tissues against oxidative damage in a rat model of CRF, which was induced by five of six nephrectomy. Male Wistar albino rats were randomly assigned to either the CRF group or the sham-operated control group, which had received saline or melatonin (10 mg/kg, i.p.) for 4 wk. CRF was evaluated by serum blood urea nitrogen (BUN) level and creatinine measurements. Aorta and corporeal tissues were used for contractility studies, or stored along with heart, lung, diaphragm, and kidney tissues for the measurement of malondialdehyde (MDA, an index of lipid peroxidation), protein carbonylation (PC, an index for protein oxidation), and glutathione (GSH) levels (a key antioxidant). Plasma MDA, PC, and GSH levels and erythrocytic superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and glutathione peroxidase (GSH-Px) activities were studied to evaluate the changes of antioxidant status in CRF. In the CRF group, the contraction and the relaxation of aorta and corpus cavernosum samples decreased significantly compared with controls (P < 0.05-0.001). Melatonin treatment of the CRF group restored these responses. In the CRF group, there were significant increases in tissue MDA and PC levels in all tissues with marked reductions in GSH levels compared with controls (P < 0.05-0.001). In the plasma, while MDA and PC levels increased, GSH, SOD, CAT, and GSH-Px activities were reduced. Melatonin treatment reversed these effects as well. In this study, the increase in MDA and PC levels and the concomitant decrease in GSH levels of tissues and plasma and also SOD, CAT, GSH-Px activities of plasma demonstrate the role of oxidative mechanisms in CRF-induced tissue damage, and melatonin, via its free radical scavenging and antioxidant properties, ameliorates oxidative organ injury. CRF-induced dysfunction of the aorta and corpus cavernosum of rats was reversed by melatonin treatment. Thus, supplementing CRF patients with adjuvant therapy of melatonin may have some benefit.
Transient mitochondrial permeability transition pore opening mediates preconditioning-induced protection.	Transient (low-conductance) opening of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP) may limit mitochondrial calcium load and mediate mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) signaling. We hypothesize that transient mPTP opening and ROS mediate the protection associated with myocardial preconditioning and mitochondrial uncoupling.
Mechanisms of pethidine-induced vasodilatation]	To investigate the vasodilating effects of pethidine, particularly in association with intracellular calcium.
Carvedilol inhibits basal and stimulated ACE production in human endothelial cells.	Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) plays an important role in the pathophysiology of cardiovascular disease. We examined the effect of carvedilol, a cardiovascular drug, on basal and stimulated ACE production in human endothelial cells. Carvedilol (0.625-5 microM), in a concentration-dependent manner, inhibited basal and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF, 0.5 nM) or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA, 10 nM) induced ACE up-regulation. Carvedilol has non-selective beta-adrenoceptor and selective alpha1-adrenoceptor blocking activity, calcium channel blocking, and anti-oxidant activity. To study whether these activities were related to ACE down-regulation, endothelial cells were treated with metoprolol (1-10 microM), propranolol (1-10 microM), prazosin (1-5 microM), nicardipine (1-10 microM), probucol (1-100 microM), or ascorbic acid (1-100 microM). None of these compounds modified ACE. VEGF (0.5 nM) and PMA (10 nM) induced PKC phosphorylation, which was inhibited by co-treatment of cell cultures with carvedilol (5 microM). In conclusion, carvedilol inhibited basal and VEGF or PMA induced ACE up-regulation. Inhibition of PKC phosphorylation was probably involved in carvedilol action.
Estrogen receptor-mediated vascular responsiveness to nebivolol: a novel endothelium-related mechanism of therapeutic vasorelaxation.	Nebivolol is a highly selective and lipophilic beta1-adrenergic receptor antagonist with vasodilating characteristics attributed mainly to endothelial generation of nitric oxide (NO). Coincidently, rapid vascular vasodilating effects of estradiol are also widely reported and membrane-initiated signaling by estrogen receptor (ER), leading to generation of NO, parallels the vasodilating effects observed for nebivolol. Thus, we hypothesized that the NO-dependent vasodilating effect attributed to nebivolol may be partially mediated through its interaction with the membrane-associated form of ER. The objective of this study was to examine the ER-mediated/endothelium-dependent vascular responses to nebivolol and the specific binding properties of nebivolol to ER. In isolated rat aortic rings, the endothelium-dependent vasodilating effect of nebivolol was significantly blocked by the use of the potent ER antagonist, ICI 182,780. In contrast, in the absence of intact endothelium, nebivolol-induced vasorelaxation was not blocked by ICI 182,780, strongly suggesting that nebivolol-elicited vasorelaxation is partially dependent on ER-mediated pathways. Further, we examined the binding of nebivolol to ER (MCF-7 cells) by radioligand binding assay and revealed specific binding kinetics with an estimated DC50 of 5 x 10 M, coinciding with the approximate EC50 of nebivolol as a vasorelaxant. In conclusion, the endothelium-dependent vascular response to nebivolol is attributed partially to its interaction with ER.
Effects of short-term exposure to homocysteine on vascular responsiveness of human internal mammary artery.	The aim of this study was to investigate the acute direct effects of homocysteine (Hcy) on the vascular responsiveness of human internal mammary artery (IMA) and to define the possible underlying mechanisms. The contractile response to both phenylephrine (Phe) (-36%) and KCl (-18%) was significantly reduced in arteries that were incubated with Hcy (10 (-4)M, 30 minutes), compared with controls (P < 0.05). Removal of endothelium did not significantly alter the responses of human IMA to Phe. Hcy (10 (-6)M) also caused a relaxation response in human IMA rings precontracted with Phe (10 (-4) M) and this effect was not inhibited by N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 10(-4) M), by l-NAME (10 (-4)M) + indomethacin (10 (-4)M), or by intimal rubbing. In addition, contractions induced by stepwise addition to calcium (Ca2+) to high KCl solution with no Ca(2+) were significantly inhibited by Hcy incubation as well as contractions induced by Phe in the absence of extracellular Ca (2+) (P < 0.05). On the other hand, Hcy (10 M, 30 minutes) did not significantly inhibit the relaxation responses to either acetylcholine (ACh) or sodium nitroprusside (SNP) (P > 0.05). These results demonstrated that short-term exposure to Hcy significantly decreased vascular responsiveness in human IMA without affecting endothelium-dependent and -independent vasorelaxation. This effect is not NO-, prostaglandin- or endothelium-dependent. The mechanism is uncertain but seems to depend on the interactions of Hcy with Ca(2+) influxes and/or other undefined direct effects in this tissue.
Four natriuretic peptides (ANP, BNP, VNP and CNP) coexist in the sturgeon: identification of BNP in fish lineage.	The natriuretic peptide (NP) family is composed of three members: atrial, brain/ventricular and C-type NPs (ANP, BNP/VNP and CNP respectively) in tetrapods and teleostean fish, but only CNP in elasmobranch fish. In order to trace the process of divergence of the NP family in early vertebrate evolution, we attempted to detect NPs in the primitive ray-finned fish, the sturgeon (Acipenser transmontanus). Unexpectedly, we isolated four distinct NP cDNAs from the heart and brain of this chondrostean fish. The single NP from the brain was CNP, as judged from the lack of C-terminal 'tail' sequence extending from the intramolecular ring. Two of the three cardiac NPs were ANP and VNP, as judged by the presence of an amidation signal at its C-terminus (ANP) and a long and conserved C-terminal tail sequence (VNP) respectively. The third cardiac NP was most probably BNP because it possessed all the features characteristic of BNP including: (1) the presence of dibasic amino acids within the intramolecular ring; (2) the presence of AUUUA repeats in the 3'-untranslated region of its mRNA; (3) equivalent expression of its mRNA in the atrium and ventricle and appreciable expression in the brain. Based on the sturgeon BNP sequence, we further isolated BNP cDNA from the heart of tilapia and pufferfish for the first time in teleostean fish. Phylogenetic analysis of the precursors showed that newly identified NPs belong to each group of the four NPs. The current identification of both VNP and BNP in the sturgeon clearly showed that BNP and VNP are coded by distinct genes, and that the NP family consists of at least four members in the ray-finned fish. VNP has not been molecularly identified in mammals but its presence is suggested from physiological studies; heterologous fish VNP exhibited more potent vasorelaxant activity than homologous mammalian ANP in the isolated coronary artery of dogs.
Role of ATP-sensitive K+ channels in relaxation of penile resistance arteries.	To investigate the functional presence of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium (K+) channels (K(ATP)) in penile resistance arteries by evaluating the relaxant effects of the selective K(ATP) channel openers, cromakalim and levcromakalim, and also the involvement of K(ATP) channels in the relaxation of two drugs currently used in the treatment of erectile dysfunction (ie, prostaglandin E1 [PGE1] and sildenafil).
Vascular hyporesponsiveness in the mesenteric artery of anaesthetized rats with cirrhosis and portal hypertension: an in-vivo study.	Cirrhosis is complicated by splanchnic vasodilation. Nitric oxide (NO) and prostacyclin contribute to this. Vascular hyporesponsiveness has been reported, but the underlying pathophysiological mechanisms are unclear.
Role of NAD(P)H oxidase on vascular alterations in angiotensin II-infused mice.	Angiotensin (Ang) II stimulates vascular reactive oxygen species generation via NAD(P)H oxidase activation. We investigated whether vascular NAD(P)H oxidase influences structure and function of resistance arteries from Ang II-infused mice.
An age-related decline in endothelial function is not associated with alterations in L-arginine transport in humans.	Endothelial dysfunction is established in aged individuals; however, the mechanism(s) are not fully elucidated. We have previously identified l-arginine transport as a potential rate-limiting factor in nitric oxide (NO) production in heart-failure patients, characterized with endothelial dysfunction. We therefore aimed to investigate whether the age-related decline in endothelial function is due to reduced transport of the NO precursor, L-arginine.
Development of insulin resistance by nitrate tolerance in conscious rabbits.	Clinical evidence has been raised to suggest that transdermal nitroglycerin increases the sensitivity of peripheral tissues to the hypoglycemic effect of insulin. In this study we determined whether development of tolerance to the hypotensive effect of nitroglycerin also resulted in tolerance to the insulin-sensitizing effect in rabbits. Intravenous glucose disposal and hyperinsulinemic euglycemic glucose clamp studies were performed on naive and hemodynamic nitrate tolerant conscious New Zealand white rabbits. These rabbits were exposed to continuous "patch on" with nitroglycerin (0.07 mg/kg/h) or placebo patches over 7 days. Nitroglycerin treatment of 7 days produced a lack of hypotensive response to a single intravenous bolus of 30 microg/kg nitroglycerin, which caused a significant decrease in mean arterial blood pressure in control rabbits. A six-hour exposure to transdermal nitroglycerin significantly increased insulin sensitivity determined by hyperinsulinemic (100 microU/ml) euglycemic (5.5 mmol/l) glucose clamping as compared with that seen in rabbits treated with placebo patches. A significant decrease in insulin sensitivity was observed in the nitroglycerin patch-treated animals both in the presence and after the removal of the last patch when the patches were applied over 7 days. We conclude that acutely nitrate patches improve insulin sensitivity whereas a 7-day chronic treatment schedule that results in hemodynamic nitrate tolerance also produces insulin resistance.
An in vitro method of studying functional responses of penile resistance arteries under isobaric conditions.	We developed an in vitro method that allows us to study the physiopharmacological responses of penile resistance arteries under isobaric conditions.
Effects of exercise training on the vascular reactivity of the whole kidney circulation in rabbits.	Exercise training is known to improve vasodilating mechanisms mediated by endothelium-dependent relaxing factors in the cardiac and skeletal muscle vascular beds. However, the effects of exercise training on visceral vascular reactivity, including the renal circulation, are still unclear. We used the experimental model of the isolated perfused rabbit kidney, which involves both the renal macro- and microcirculation, to test the hypothesis that exercise training improves vasodilator mechanisms in the entire renal circulation. New Zealand White rabbits were pen confined (Sed; n = 24) or treadmill trained (0% grade) for 5 days/wk at a speed of 18 m/min during 60 min over a 12-wk period (ExT; n = 24). Kidneys isolated from Sed and ExT rabbits were continuously perfused in a nonrecirculating system under conditions of constant flow and precontracted with norepinephrine (NE). We assessed the effects of exercise training on renal vascular reactivity using endothelial-dependent [acetylcholine (ACh) and bradykinin (BK)] and -independent [sodium nitroprusside (SNP)] vasodilators. ACh induced marked and dose-related vasodilator responses in kidneys from Sed rabbits, the reduction in perfusion pressure reaching 41 +/- 8% (n = 6; P < 0.05). In the kidneys from ExT rabbits, vasodilation induced by ACh was significantly enhanced to 54 +/- 6% (n = 6; P < 0.05). In contrast, BK-induced renal vasodilation was not enhanced by training [19 +/- 8 and 13 +/- 4% reduction in perfusion pressure for Sed and ExT rabbits, respectively (n = 6; P > 0.05)]. Continuous perfusion of isolated kidneys from ExT animals with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 300 microM), an inhibitor of nitric oxide (NO) biosynthesis, completely blunted the additional vasodilation elicited by ACh [reduction in perfusion pressure of 54 +/- 6 and 38 +/- 5% for ExT and L-NAME + ExT, respectively (n = 6; P < 0.05)]. On the other hand, L-NAME infusion did not affect ACh-induced vasodilation in Sed animals. Exercise training also increased renal vasodilation induced by SNP [36 +/- 7 and 45 +/- 10% reduction in perfusion pressure for Sed and ExT rabbits, respectively (n = 6; P < 0.05)]. It is concluded that exercise training alters the rabbit kidney vascular reactivity, enhancing endothelium-dependent and -independent renal vasodilation. This effect seems to be related not only to an increased bioavailability of NO but also to the enhanced responsiveness of the renal vascular smooth muscle to NO.
Mechanism of cicaprost-induced desensitization in rat pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells involves a PKA-mediated inhibition of adenylyl cyclase.	Long-term infusion of prostacyclin, or its analogs, is an effective treatment for severe pulmonary arterial hypertension. However, dose escalation is often required to maintain efficacy. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanisms of prostacyclin receptor desensitization using the prostacyclin analog cicaprost in rat pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells (PASMCs). Desensitization of the cAMP response occurred in 63 nM cicaprost after a 6-h preincubation with agonist. This desensitization was reversed 12 h after agonist removal, and resensitization was inhibited by 10 microg/ml of cycloheximide. Desensitization was heterologous since desensitization to other G(s)alpha-adenylyl cyclase (AC)-coupled agonists, isoproterenol (1 microM), adrenomedullin (100 nM), or bradykinin (1 microM), was also reduced by preincubation with cicaprost. The reduced cAMP response to prolonged cicaprost exposure appeared to be due to inhibition of AC activity since the responses to the directly acting AC agonist forskolin (3 microM) and the selective AC5 activator NKH-477 were similarly reduced. Expression of AC2 and AC5/6 protein levels transiently decreased after 1 h of cicaprost exposure. The PKA inhibitor H-89 (1 microM) added 1 h before cicaprost preincubation (6 h, 63 nM) completely reversed cicaprost-induced desensitization, whereas the PKC inhibitor bisindolylmaleimide (100 nM) was only partly effective. Desensitization was not prevented by the G(i) inhibitor pertussis toxin. In conclusion, chronic treatment of PASMCs with cicaprost induced heterologous, reversible desensitization by inhibition of AC activity. Our data suggest that heterologous G(s)alpha desensitization by cicaprost is mediated predominantly by a PKA-inhibitable isoform of AC, most likely AC5/6.
Synergistic interaction between enalapril, L-arginine and tetrahydrobiopterin in smooth muscle cell apoptosis and aortic remodeling induction in SHR.	Smooth muscle cell (SMC) apoptosis occurs at the onset of enalapril-induced regression of aortic hypertrophy in SHR. A potential mechanism is the correction of endothelial dysfunction (ED) leading to reduced production of reactive oxygen species and enhanced bioavailability of nitric oxide (NO), a potent apoptosis inducer. Stimulants of NO include the precursor L-arginine and the NO synthase cofactor tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)), which correct ED in several models. The objective was to examine the relationships between ED and the cell growth/death balance during vascular remodeling induced by enalapril in SHR. SHR, 10-week-old, received enalapril (ENA: 30 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1) p.o.) for 1 or 2 weeks, or a co-treatment of L-arginine (2.0 g x kg(-1) x day(-1) p.o.) and BH(4) (5.4 mg x kg(-1) x day(-1) i.p. twice daily) administered alone (group: LB) or in combination with enalapril (ENA+LB) for 1 week. Controls received vehicle. After 1 week, ED was completely corrected with LB but not affected significantly by ENA, whereas both treatments failed to induce SMC apoptosis or aortic remodeling. The correction of ED and the induction of SMC apoptosis (3.3-fold increase in TUNEL labeling) required 2 weeks of ENA treatment. The combination of LB with ENA for 1 week, however, was additive for the reduction of SMC proliferation, and synergistic for the induction of apoptosis and regression of vascular hypertrophy. These interactions were independent of blood pressure regulation. Our results suggest that the correction of ED is not sufficient to induce SMC apoptosis and vascular remodeling, although it facilitates these responses during enalapril treatment.
Attenuated endothelium-mediated relaxation by acteoside in rat aorta: Role of endothelial [Ca2+]i and nitric oxide/cyclic GMP pathway.	Acteoside and other phenylethanoid glycoside are contained in many plants that are widely used in traditional Chinese herbal medicine. Acteoside possesses multiple biological actions. Its effect on the vascular system is, however, incompletely understood. This study was aimed to investigate the role of endothelial [Ca2+]i, nitric oxide (NO), and cyclic GMP in acteoside-induced inhibition of endothelial NO-mediated relaxation in rat aorta. Acteoside reduced endothelial NO-dependent relaxation induced by acetylcholine (Ach) or A23187. Acteoside inhibited Ach-stimulated increase in tissue content of cyclic GMP in endothelium-intact rings. L-NNA abolished the stimulatory effect of Ach. Treatment with acteoside significantly suppressed bradykinin-induced increase in [Ca2+]i of cultured rat aortic endothelial cells. Acute exposure to acteoside (30 microM) did not affect the expression of eNOS mRNA in endothelium-intact rings. In summary, acteoside impairs endothelial NO-mediated aortic relaxation partially through inhibition of agonist-induced endothelial Ca2+ mobilization and Ca2+-dependent NO production and subsequent suppression of cyclic GMP formation. This novel pharmacological action if occurring in small vessels in vivo, may contribute to the reported anti-inflammatory effect of acteoside against NO-mediated vascular permeability-related acute edema.
Involvement of the nitric oxide system in the anti-atherosclerotic potential of lacidipine in the ApoE-deficient mouse: a morphological, functional, and electrochemical study.	The present study investigated the anti-atherosclerotic activity of lacidipine, a calcium antagonist with antioxidant properties in apoE-deficient mice. These mice show widespread vascular lesions which closely resemble the inflammatory-fibrous plaques seen in humans in atherosclerosis. Mice were fed a Western-type diet (WTD), and treated for 8 weeks with either vehicle or lacidipine at 3 or 10 mg/kg/day. In parallel with histological studies of atherosclerotic lesions in the aorta, functional studies on vascular acetylcholine (ACh) reactivity and analysis of voltammetric levels of nitric oxide (NO) were performed. Recent work has suggested that dihydropyridines (DHPs) modulate vascular relaxation via an increase in the release of NO. Lacidipine treatment had no effect on the plasma lipid profile. However, a significant (p < 0.01) dose-related reduction of 36.4% and 43.3% of the aortic lesion area in respect to methocel-treated mice was observed. Moreover, the aortic ring from control apoE-deficient mice fed a WTD for 8 weeks showed a lower relaxation in response to ACh in comparison to wild-type C57BL/6J mice; on the contrary, lacidipine-treated apoE-deficient mice lacidipine-treated displayed a response similar to that of wildtype C57BL/6J mice. Voltammetric analyses demonstrated a significant decrease of NO release in apoE-deficient mice, while lacidipine-treated mice showed enhanced activity of the NO system. We conclude that lacidipine reduced the extent of atherosclerotic area in hypercholesterolemic apoE-deficient mice, and this reduction may be associated with the capacity of the drug to maintain endothelial NO levels at concentrations useful to protect against vascular damage.
Cardiovascular drugs: adenosine role in coronary syndromes and percutaneous coronary interventions.	Adenosine is an endogenous nucleoside available for the diagnosis and treatment of various cardiovascular conditions. It may be given for pharmacologic stress tests as well as administered directly into the coronary arteries during cardiac catheterization. The latter treatment may be utilized to measure fractional flow reserve in addition to treating the no-reflow phenomenon. Adenosine has also been shown to improve the clinical outcome of thrombolytics given in the setting of acute myocardial infarction. Adenosine is a useful agent for evaluation and treatment of the cardiovascular system.
Novel expression of resistin in rat testis: functional role and regulation by nutritional status and hormonal factors.	Resistin, a recently cloned adipose-secreted factor, is primarily involved in the modulation of insulin sensitivity and adipocyte differentiation. However, additional metabolic or endocrine functions of this molecule remain largely unexplored. In this study, a series of experiments were undertaken to explore the potential expression, regulation and functional role of this novel adipocytokine in rat testis. Resistin gene expression was demonstrated in rat testis throughout postnatal development, with maximum mRNA levels in adult specimens. At this age, resistin peptide was immunodetected in interstitial Leydig cells and Sertoli cells within seminiferous tubules. Testicular expression of resistin was under hormonal regulation of pituitary gonadotropins and showed stage-specificity, with peak expression values at stages II-VI of the seminiferous epithelial cycle. In addition, testicular resistin mRNA was down-regulated by the selective agonist of PPARgamma, rosiglitazone, in vivo and in vitro. Similarly, fasting and central administration of the adipocyte-derived factor, leptin, evoked a significant reduction in testicular resistin mRNA levels, whereas they remained unaltered in a model of diet-induced obesity. From a functional standpoint, resistin, in a dose-dependent manner, significantly increased both basal and choriogonadotropin-stimulated testosterone secretion in vitro. Overall, our present results provide the first evidence for the expression, regulation and functional role of resistin in rat testis. These data underscore a reproductive facet of this recently cloned molecule, which may operate as a novel endocrine integrator linking energy homeostasis and reproduction.
L-arginine supplementation prolongs exercise capacity in congestive heart failure.	In congestive heart failure (CHF), endothelial dysfunction may contribute to impairment of exercise induced vasodilatation and decreased exercise capacity. We hypothesised that administration of L-arginine, a precursor of nitric oxide (NO) and postulated antioxidant, may improve endothelium-dependent vasodilatation and exercise capacity and also exert antioxidant activity.
Levosimendan interacts with potassium channel blockers in human saphenous veins.	The involvement of potassium channels in the venodilating capacity of the inodilator levosimendan in human saphenous vein preparations was investigated. Levosimendan caused relaxation with 50% effective concentration (EC50) of 0.32 +/- 0.04 microM in isolated veins contracted by 5-hydroxytryptamine. Fifteen microM glibenclamide, a blocker of the ATP-sensitive potassium channels (K(ATP)), partially inhibited the relaxing effect of the inodilator. In the presence of iberiotoxin, the selective blocker of large conductance calcium-activated potassium channels (BK(Ca)), levosimendan induced contraction with EC50 of 0.21 +/- 0.06 microM. We presume that levosimendan dilates human saphenous veins by interacting with hyperpolarizing potassium channels (K(ATP) and BK(Ca)).
Effects of the calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist BIBN4096BS on alpha-CGRP-induced regional haemodynamic changes in anaesthetised rats.	Several studies suggest that a calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) receptor antagonist may have antimigraine properties, most probably via the inhibition of CGRP-induced cranial vasodilatation. We recently showed that the novel selective CGRP receptor antagonist, BIBN4096BS (1-piperidinecarboxamide, -N-[2-[[5-amino-1-[[4-(4-pyridinyl)-1-piperazinyl] carbonyl] pentyl]amino]-1-[(3,5-dibromo-4-hydroxyphenyl) methyl]-2-oxoethyl]-4-(1,4-dihydro-2-oxo-3(2H)-quinazolinyl)-, [[R-(R,(R*,S*)]), attenuated the CGRP-induced porcine carotid vasodilatation in a model predictive of antimigraine activity. In order to evaluate the potential safety of BIBN4096BS in migraine therapy, this study was designed to investigate the effects of intravenous BIBN4096BS on alpha-CGRP-induced systemic and regional haemodynamic changes in anaesthetised rats, using radioactive microspheres. In vehicle-pretreated animals, consecutive intravenous infusions of alpha-CGRP (0.25, 0.5 and 1 microg kg(-1) min.(-1)) dose-dependently decreased mean arterial blood pressure with an accompanying increase in heart rate and systemic vascular conductance whereas cardiac output remained unchanged. Alpha-CGRP also increased the vascular conductance to the heart, brain, gastrointestinal tract, adrenals, skeletal muscles and skin, whilst that to the kidneys, spleen, mesentery/pancreas and liver remained unaltered. The above systemic and regional haemodynamic responses to alpha-CGRP were clearly attenuated in BIBN4096BS (3 mg kg(-1) intravenously)-pretreated animals. These results indicate that exogenously administered alpha-CGRP dilates regional vascular beds via CGRP receptors on the basis of the antagonism produced by BIBN4096BS. Moreover, the fact that BIBN4096BS did not alter baseline haemodynamics suggests that endogenously produced CGRP does not play an important role in regulating the systemic and regional haemodynamics under resting conditions.
Carvedilol differentially regulates cytokine production from activated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells.	Chronic inflammation is one of the important mechanisms involved in atherosclerosis formation. The activated monocytes and their secreted cytokines contribute significantly to this inflammatory process. Here we examined the effects of carvedilol, a recently introduced cardio-protective alpha-1- and beta-receptor blocker, on cytokine production from various stimuli-activated human immune effector cells. By ELISA analysis, we showed that carvedilol inhibited interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), but enhanced interleukin (IL)-12 production in phytohemagglutinin (PHA)- and concanavalin A (ConA)-stimulated human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs). The production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) was marginally affected. When purified monocytes were examined, we observed the consistent up-regulation of IL-12 production while both IL-10 and TNF-alpha were unaffected or marginally down-regulated, respectively, by carvedilol. In agreement with the observation in monocytes, the production of IL-12 from activated macrophages was also up-regulated by carvedilol. We concluded that carvedilol might mediate its therapeutic effects through differentially regulating cytokine production from activated mononuclear cells, including at least monocytes and macrophages.
Methylprednisolone enhances contraction of porcine femoral head epiphyseal arteries.	The pathomechanism of steroid-induced femoral head necrosis is thought to be disturbed femoral head blood flow. We hypothesize that methylprednisolone increases vasocontraction of femoral head epiphyseal arteries, thereby reducing femoral head blood flow. Nine immature female domestic pigs were randomly selected from a group of 18 to receive 24-hour methylprednisolone treatment, whereas the nine remaining pigs received the placebo control in a blinded fashion. After sacrifice, lateral epiphyseal artery segments from the femoral heads were mounted as ring preparations on a small vessel myograph. Isometric active tension was measured in relation to cumulating doses of the vasoconstrictors noradrenaline and endothelin-1, and the vasodilator bradykinin. Vasocontraction to noradrenaline was not altered by methylprednisolone. Bradykinin elicited a concentration-dependent vasodilation which was lower in the corticosteroid-treated vessels. Vasoconstriction to endothelin-1 was stronger in the corticosteroid-treated vessels. Our data indicate that methylprednisolone enhances contraction of femoral head lateral epiphyseal arteries and may decrease femoral head blood flow. To our knowledge, this pathomechanic factor in femoral head necrosis has not been described before.
Inhibitory effects of L-arginine derivatives on endothelium-dependent vasorelaxing response to acetylcholine of the rat aorta.	N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine alkyl esters (A-1-A-B) and L-arginine alkyl esters (E-1-E-B) were synthesized, and the vasorelaxing effects of acetylcholine were studied in the absence or presence of these compounds in rat aortic rings with intact endothelium that was precontracted with phenylephrine. These compounds revealed that the nitro group is an essential inhibiting group of these inhibitors, and that hydrophobic functional groups can fine-tune the binding effects. Among them, A-3 is the most potent inhibitor.
Impaired endothelial function in never-treated hypertensive subjects carrying the Arg972 polymorphism in the insulin receptor substrate-1 gene.	Some cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension and insulin resistance, are associated with endothelial dysfunction. Insulin regulates both in vitro and in vivo expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) via a pathway involving insulin receptor substrate-1 (IRS-1) and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase. Recently, we found that human endothelial cells obtained from carriers of the Arg(972) IRS-1 polymorphism exhibited reduced eNOS expression in response to chronic exposure to insulin. A reduction in eNOS expression would be expected to be associated with impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilation. To investigate a possible relationship between Arg(972) IRS-1 polymorphism and endothelial dysfunction in vivo, we enrolled a cohort of 100 never-treated hypertensive subjects. Endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent vasodilation were assessed by increasing doses of acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside. IRS-1 polymorphism was detected by PCR. The allelic frequency of the Arg(972) IRS-1 variant was 8.0%. Stratifying subjects according to IRS-1 genotype, we observed that acetylcholine-stimulated forearm blood flow was significantly (P < 0.0001) lower in Gly/Arg heterozygous carriers than in Gly/Gly carriers (11.3 +/- 4.4 vs. 14.7 +/- 5.9 ml/100 ml(-1) of tissue per min(-1)). Sodium nitroprusside caused comparable increments in forearm blood flow in both groups (12.9 +/- 2.4 vs. 13.3 +/- 3.5 ml/100 ml(-1) of tissue per min(-1)). Our data strongly suggest that, by inducing endothelial dysfunction, the Arg(972) IRS-1 polymorphism may contribute to the genetic predisposition to develop cardiovascular disease.
The effect of cutaneous mast cell degranulation on sensitivity to heat.	To determine whether depletion of inflammatory mediators from cutaneous mast cells influences cutaneous sensitivity to heat or the thermal hyperalgesia provoked by capsaicin or noradrenaline.
Neuromuscular electric stimulation enhances endothelial vascular control and hemodynamic function in paretic upper extremities of patients with stroke.	To investigate the effects of neuromuscular electric stimulation (NMES) on endothelial vascular control and hemodynamic function in patients in rehabilitation after acute stroke.
Pharmacological assessment of composite arterial conduits using angiography early in the postoperative period.	Muscular arteries are vulnerable to vasospasm unlike elastic arteries. Having developed experimental models of composite arterial grafts, we assessed and compared the responses of the grafts with different pharmacological agents using angiography early in the postoperative period.
Music improves dopaminergic neurotransmission: demonstration based on the effect of music on blood pressure regulation.	The mechanism by which music modifies brain function is not clear. Clinical findings indicate that music reduces blood pressure in various patients. We investigated the effect of music on blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Previous studies indicated that calcium increases brain dopamine (DA) synthesis through a calmodulin (CaM)-dependent system. Increased DA levels reduce blood pressure in SHR. In this study, we examined the effects of music on this pathway. Systolic blood pressure in SHR was reduced by exposure to Mozart's music (K.205), and the effect vanished when this pathway was inhibited. Exposure to music also significantly increased serum calcium levels and neostriatal DA levels. These results suggest that music leads to increased calcium/CaM-dependent DA synthesis in the brain, thus causing a reduction in blood pressure. Music might regulate and/or affect various brain functions through dopaminergic neurotransmission, and might therefore be effective for rectification of symptoms in various diseases that involve DA dysfunction.
Effects of rosiglitazone on endothelial function in men with coronary artery disease without diabetes mellitus.	Recent data have shown that peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma agonists may exert protective effects on the vascular endothelium by amelioration of insulin resistance and through direct anti-inflammatory effects. In this study we assessed the effect of rosiglitazone on biochemical and biophysical indexes of endothelial function in male, nondiabetic patients with coronary artery disease. Consecutive male subjects (n = 71) with clinically stable, angiographically documented coronary artery disease and without diabetes mellitus were investigated. Patients were randomized in a double-blind manner to placebo or rosiglitazone for a total of 24 weeks. Flow-mediated dilation (FMD) of the brachial artery, C-reactive protein, von Willebrand factor, intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 levels, and parameters of glucose and lipid metabolism were measured at baseline and after 12 and 24 weeks of treatment. Rosiglitazone treatment significantly reduced C-reactive protein (median 0.56 mg/L [interquartile range 0.33 to 1.02] to 0.33 mg/L [interquartile range 0.26 to 0.40], p <0.01), von Willebrand factor (139 +/- 47 to 132 +/- 44 IU/dl, p = 0.02), insulin resistance index (p = 0.05), and mean low-density lipoprotein (LDL) density (p <0.001) compared with placebo. However, no significant differences were seen between the rosiglitazone and placebo groups with regard to brachial artery FMD, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, or vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 levels. Rosiglitazone treatment significantly increased LDL (2.62 +/- 0.72 to 2.95 +/- 0.84 mmol/L, p = 0.03) and triglyceride (1.23 +/- 0.63 to 1.56 +/- 0.98 mmol/L, p = 0.04) levels. Thus, rosiglitazone reduced markers of inflammation and endothelial activation, but this did not translate into an improvement in FMD. Increased LDL and triglyceride levels may have played a role.
Vasopressin effects on the coronary circulation after a short ischemia in anesthetized goats: role of nitric oxide and prostanoids.	To examine the coronary effects of arginine-vasopressin during reperfusion after a short ischemia, left circumflex coronary artery flow was electromagnetically measured, and 15 min total occlusion of this artery followed by reperfusion was induced in anesthetized goats (five nontreated, five treated with the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthesis Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and five treated with the inhibitor of cyclooxygenase meclofenamate). The vasoactive drugs and L-NAME were intracoronarily injected, and meclofenamate by i.v. route. At 60 min of reperfusion, coronary vascular conductance was not changed significantly in nontreated and was decreased by 35% (P<0.01) in L-NAME-treated and by 30% (P<0.01) in meclofenamate-treated animals. During reperfusion, the coronary vasodilatation with acetylcholine (3-100 ng) and sodium nitroprusside (1-10 microg) was not altered in nontreated animals, and the vasodilatation with acetylcholine but not with sodium nitroprusside was partially decreased in L-NAME--but not in meclofenamate-treated animals. The vasoconstriction in response to arginine-vasopressin (0.03-0.3 microg) was increased during reperfusion in nontreated, was not changed in L-NAME-treated and was decreased in meclofenamate-treated animals. Therefore, it is suggested that during reperfusion after a short ischemia: (1) the coronary vasodilator reserve is preserved; (2) the coronary vasodilatation with acetylcholine is also preserved, but in this vasodilatation, the role of nitric oxide may be attenuated and prostanoids may be not involved; and (3) the coronary vasoconstriction with arginine-vasopressin is increased, probably due to both attenuation of the modulatory role of nitric oxide and the release of vasoconstrictor prostanoids.
Electrophysiologic effects of nicorandil on the guinea pig long QT1 syndrome model.	The slow component of the delayed rectifier K+ current IKs modulates repolarization of the cardiac action potential (AP), and the loss of IKs is known to cause long QT1 (LQT1) syndrome by prolonging action potential duration (APD). In this study, we generated a guinea pig LQT1 syndrome model using the IKs blocker chromanol 293B and then assayed the electrophysiologic effects of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel IK,ATP opener nicorandil on this model.
Endothelin-1 gene expression in endothelial cells is potently inhibited by a vasodilator, dilazep.	Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is considered to be involved in various cardiovascular and renal disorders. The objective of this study was to investigate whether a vasodilator and antiplatelet agent, 1,4-bis[3-(3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoyloxy) propyl]perhydro-1,4-diazepine dihydrochloride monohydrate (dilazep, DZ), has an ET-1-inhibiting effect in vitro. Bovine aortic endothelial cells (BAEC) and human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) pretreated with fetal calf serum were treated with DZ and preproET-1 (PpET-1) transcription was evaluated by Northern blot analysis. ET-1 peptide release in culture medium was evaluated by radioimmunoassay. The effect of DZ on the ET-1 promoter/enhancer apparatus was evaluated in transfection experiments using -5 kb ET-1 promoter/enhancer constructs. Modest inhibition of PpET-1 gene transcription was detected after 30 min of DZ treatment (0.56+/-0.19 vs. 1 , p<0.01) and more marked inhibition was seen at 24 h (0.04+/-0.04 vs. 1, p<0.0001). ET-1 peptide release was suppressed strongly after 3 h (382.5+/-2.9 vs. 673.5+/-74.5pg/ml, p< 0.001) and 24 h (38.8+/-9.8 vs. 5,075+/-52.0pg/ml, p<0.0001). DZ potently inhibited PpET-1 transcription in a concentration-dependent manner (0.42+/-0.18 vs. 1, p<0.001, at 100micromol/l). DZ suppressed PpET-1 transcription in confluent HUVEC at 3 h (0.41 +/-0.11 vs. 1, p<0.0001). DZ strongly inhibited PpET-1 transcription after 1 h of thrombin (TH) treatment (0.30+/-0.01 vs. 1.51+/-0.03, p<0.0001). Transfection experiments using the 5 kb ET-1 promoter-luciferase plasmid revealed that DZ strongly suppressed ET-1 promoter activity by 99% (p<0.01). DZ potently inhibited ET-1 gene expression at the transcription level in serum- or TH-treated endothelial cells.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase activity: a comparison of pentaerythritol tetranitrate with other organic nitrates.	Mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH-2) was recently identified to be essential for the bioactivation of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN). Here we assessed whether other organic nitrates are bioactivated by a similar mechanism. The ALDH-2 inhibitor benomyl reduced the vasodilator potency, but not the efficacy, of GTN, pentaerythritol tetranitrate (PETN), and pentaerythritol trinitrate in phenylephrine-constricted rat aorta, whereas vasodilator responses to isosorbide dinitrate, isosorbide-5-mononitrate, pentaerythritol dinitrate, pentaerythritol mononitrate, and the endothelium-dependent vasodilator acetylcholine were not affected. Likewise, benomyl decreased GTN- and PETN-elicited phosphorylation of the cGMP-activated protein kinase substrate vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) but not that elicited by other nitrates. The vasodilator potency of organic nitrates correlated with their potency to inhibit ALDH-2 dehydrogenase activity in mitochondria from rat heart and increase mitochondrial superoxide formation, as detected by chemiluminescence. In contrast, mitochondrial ALDH-2 esterase activity was not affected by PETN and its metabolites, whereas it was inhibited by benomyl, GTN applied in vitro and in vivo, and some sulfhydryl oxidants. The bioactivation-related metabolism of GTN to glyceryl-1,2-dinitrate by isolated RAW macrophages was reduced by the ALDH-2 inhibitors benomyl and daidzin, as well as by GTN at concentrations >1 microM. We conclude that mitochondrial ALDH-2, specifically its esterase activity, is required for the bioactivation of the organic nitrates with high vasodilator potency, such as GTN and PETN, but not for the less potent nitrates. It is interesting that ALDH-2 esterase activity was inhibited by GTN only, not by the other nitrates tested. This difference might explain why GTN elicits mitochondrial superoxide formation and nitrate tolerance with the highest potency.
Comparison of the development of tolerance to nitroglycerin in aortic preparations isolated from non-diabetic and diabetic rats.	To clarify whether or not tolerance to nitroglycerin is developed more easily in a diabetic than in a non-diabetic state, the effects of nitroglycerin on aortic preparations isolated from diabetic and non-diabetic rats were examined and compared with those of nicorandil, which has been known to develop less tolerance than does nitroglycerin. Contractile responses to norepinephrine, relaxant responses to nitroglycerin and nicorandil, and the tolerance development to nitroglycerin were found to be no different between diabetic and non-diabetic aortic preparations. N-Acetylcysteine preincubated together with nitroglycerin prevented the tolerance development to nitroglycerin in non-diabetic but not in diabetic aortic preparations. The results suggest that the tolerance to nitroglycerin is developed in the diabetic as well as in the non-diabetic state.
The resistance of some rat cerebral arteries to the vasorelaxant effect of cromakalim and other K+ channel openers.	1. Cromakalim (0.01-30 microM) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 0.01-100 microM) were tested for their ability to relax a number of pre-contracted small arteries (approximate diameter 200-700 microM at 100 mmHg) from the rat, rabbit and guinea-pig. 2. In the rat, SNP (0.01-100 microM) caused near maximal relaxation in all vessels studied including the middle cerebral, anterior cerebellar, basilar, mesenteric and renal arteries. Cromakalim (0.01-30 microM) relaxed pre-contracted mesenteric and renal arteries but was only a weak relaxant of all the rat cerebral arteries with the exception of the basilar artery. Similar experiments using mesenteric and cerebral vessels from the rabbit and guinea-pig showed cromakalim could relax pre-contracted vessels in a concentration-dependent manner. 3. Two other K+ channel openers, nicorandil and pinacidil, were also tested for their ability to relax rat cerebral arteries. Nicorandil (0.01-100 microM) was ineffective in the rat anterior cerebellar artery at concentrations up to 100 microM. Pinacidil (0.01-100 microM) caused significant vasorelaxation, although high concentrations were required (greater than 10 microM) and the response was insensitive to the effects of glibenclamide (3 microM). 4. Electrophysiological experiments with the rat anterior cerebellar artery showed that cromakalim (up to 30 microM) failed to influence the resting membrane potential of impaled single smooth muscle cells. 5. The results showed that some rat small cerebral arteries were resistant to the effects of K+ channel openers including cromakalim, pinacidil and nicorandil. This is peculiar to this vascular tree since the same vessels from other species do not exhibit the same behaviour. Such a phenomenon could result from a lack of K+ channels opened by cromakalim in rat cerebral arteries.
Increase of potassium conductance and spontaneous electric activity in vitro: comparison of nicorandil and cicletanine]	Nicorandil (N) increases potassium conductance in vascular smooth muscle and so induces vasodilation; N also dose-dependently reduces action potential duration (APD). However, it is unclear whether increased potassium conductance, and concomitant APD shortening, might be arrhythmogenic, particularly when myocardial ischemia (where potassium efflux is increased) concurs. Data on the anti-arrhythmic effectiveness of N have also been published: N reduced the spontaneous discharge of sino-atrial node and so reduced heart rate, both in vitro and man. On the other hand, among other vasodilators, cicletanine (C) has been reported to increase potassium conductance, an effect which was advocated to explain its antiarrhythmic potency. In the present investigation the direct myocardial effects of N were compared to those following C in 63 experiments (from 13 Guinea-pigs), using atrial strips (containing sino-atrial node) superfused in 1-compartment bath with normal Tyrode's solution. Using glass microelectrodes, standard electrophysiologic variables were recorded (APA, RMP, APD50%, Vmax) in spontaneously beating atrial tissue, either in Tyrode, dimethyl-sulfoxide (DMSO 1:100, as solvent), C 10(-5) M (in DMSO 1:100), and N 10(-3) M (in DMSO 1:100), whose respective perfusion periods (15 min) were randomized, always following 15 min of washout with Tyrode. Only N was tested in experiments of both 15 and 30 min duration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Influence of serum cholesterol on atherogenesis and intimal hyperplasia after angioplasty: inhibition by amlodipine.	The objectives of the present study were to determine whether serum hypercholesterolemia (HC) promotes the development of spontaneous and angioplasty-induced lesions and whether amlodipine inhibits these lesions and cellular processes underlying their genesis. Rabbits were fed normal, 0.5%, or 2% cholesterol diets for 9 wk, which resulted in the development of increasing HC. After week one, balloon dilation of the abdominal aorta was performed while the thoracic aorta was not disturbed and monitored for the development of spontaneous lesions. Lesion size increased with the degree of HC and was accompanied by increased collagen synthesis and smooth muscle cell (SMC) proliferation at each site. Amlodipine (5 mg/kg p.o.) inhibited lesion size by 50% (P < 0.01) at both sites in cholesterol-fed animals but not at angioplasty sites in animals on a normal diet. Local collagen synthesis was inhibited at both sites by amlodipine in the diet animals. The increase in HC was accompanied by a 1.7-fold increase in basal Ca2+ uptake in SMCs in the thoracic aorta, which was not altered by amlodipine, nifedipine, Ni2+, or La3+, revealing an uninhibitable calcium leak during atherogenesis. In culture, cholesterol enrichment increased SMC proliferation, collagen synthesis, and the secretion of a soluble SMC mitogen, which were inhibited by amlodipine (10(-9) M). Finally, in SMC membranes, amlodipine uniquely restored the cholesterol-expanded membrane bilayer width without any effect on membrane fluidity. This study establishes a causal role between serum HC and the development of spontaneous and angioplasty-induced lesions and the ability of amlodipine to disrupt this action by a novel remodelling action on the SMC membrane.
Contribution of endothelin to coronary vasomotor tone is abolished after myocardial infarction.	Left ventricular dysfunction in swine with a recent myocardial infarction (MI) is associated with neurohumoral activation, including increased catecholamines and endothelin (ET). Although the increase in ET may serve to maintain blood pressure and, hence, perfusion of essential organs such as the heart and brain, it could also compromise myocardial perfusion by evoking coronary vasoconstriction. In the present study, we tested the hypothesis that endogenous ET contributes to perturbations in myocardial O2 balance during exercise in remodeled myocardium of swine with a recent MI. For this purpose, 26 chronically instrumented swine (10 with and 16 without MI) were studied at rest and while running on a treadmill at 1-4 km/h. After MI, plasma ET increased from 3.2 +/- 0.4 to 4.9 +/- 0.3 pM (P < 0.05). In normal swine, blockade of ETA (by EMD-122946) or ETA-ETB (by tezosentan) receptors resulted in an increase in coronary venous PO2, i.e., coronary vasodilation at rest, which decreased during exercise. In contrast, neither ETA nor ETA-ETB receptor blockade resulted in coronary vasodilation in swine with MI. Coronary vasoconstriction to intravenous ET-1 infusion in awake resting swine was blunted after MI. To investigate whether factors released by cardiac myocytes contributed to decreased vascular responsiveness to ET, we performed ET-1 dose-response curves in isolated coronary arterioles (70-200 microm). Vasoconstriction to ET-1 in isolated arterioles from MI swine was enhanced. In conclusion, the vasoconstrictor influence of endogenous as well as exogenous ET on coronary circulation in vivo is reduced. Because the response of isolated coronary arterioles to ET is increased after MI, the reduced vasoconstrictor influence in vivo suggests modulation of ET receptor sensitivity by cardiac myocytes, which may serve to maintain adequate myocardial perfusion.
Magnesium inhibits norepinephrine release by blocking N-type calcium channels at peripheral sympathetic nerve endings.	Although Mg2+ contributes to blood pressure regulation partly in terms of vasodilator action, its sympatholytic effect may also play an important role to control blood pressure. Thus, in the present study, we investigated the effect of Mg2+ on sympathetic tone and blood pressure. We studied its actions on the blood pressure response to hydralazine, a direct vasodilator, in conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), and to electrical stimulation in the pithed Sprague-Dawley rat; catecholamine release by peripheral sympathetic nerve endings; and the N-type Ca2+ channels of cultured neural cells. Intravenous Mg2+ infusion (MgSO4: 3x10(-6) mol/kg body weight/min) induced the greater hypotensive response to hydralazine with attenuated reflex tachycardia in SHRs. In pithed rats, Mg2+ infusion significantly attenuated the blood pressure elevation (2+/-2 mm Hg versus 27+/-6 mm Hg, P<0.01) in response to spinal electrical stimulation. In the perfused mesenteric arteries system, norepinephrine release was significantly attenuated (51+/-2%, P<0.01) by high Mg2+ concentration solution (4.8 mmol/L) compared with normal Mg2+ solution (1.2 mmol/L). When we applied the perforated whole-cell patch clamp method to nerve growth factor-treated PC12 cells, Mg2+ blocked voltage-gated Ca2+ currents in a concentration-dependent manner. The majority of the voltage-gated Ca2+ currents were carried through N-type channels, followed by L-type channels. Mg2+ blocked both of these channels. These findings suggest that Mg2+ blocks mainly N-type Ca2+ channels at nerve endings, and thus inhibits norepinephrine release, which decreases blood pressure independent of its direct vasodilating action.
Disruption of microtubular network attenuates histamine-induced dilation in rat mesenteric vessels.	Cytoplasmic microtubules are important in many cellular homeostatic processes in the cell. They regulate cell shape and movement as well as serving as a network by which vesicles and membrane-bound organelles can travel. Lately, there have been many studies demonstrating that microtubules are involved in regulation of intracellular signaling and, therefore, affect vascular reactivity. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that microtubule disruption attenuates agonist-induced endothelium-dependent vasodilation. Isolated mesenteric arterial bed from normotensive rats was preconstricted with phenylephrine, and dose-response curves for histamine, acetylcholine (ACh), sodium nitroprusside (SNP), and pinacidil were performed before and after incubation with nocodazole or colchicine. Treatment of the vascular beds with nocodazole or colchicine significantly attenuated histamine relaxation but did not change the ACh-, SNP-, or pinacidil-induced vasorelaxation. Nocodazole did not cause an additional attenuation of the histamine-mediated dilation in mesenteric vessels in the presence of Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, high extracellular K+, or K+ channel blockers. These data suggest that disruption of microtubules affects an essential endothelial component of histamine-mediated vasodilation in the mesenteric arterial bed. The mechanism(s) involved in this effect might be related to an impairment of endothelial NO synthesis, which might not be as important for the ACh as for the histamine vasodilator response in rat mesenteric vessels. These results demonstrate the importance of the microtubular system for endothelium-dependent NO-mediated smooth muscle relaxation.
Salt-induced ANG II suppression impairs the response of cerebral artery smooth muscle cells to prostacyclin.	Recent studies have demonstrated that cerebral arteries from rats fed a high-salt (HS) diet exhibit impaired vasodilation and altered electrophysiological response to reduction in PO2. The present study examined whether an increase in salt intake alters the response of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC) to prostacyclin, a crucial mediator of hypoxic dilation in cerebral arteries. VSMC were isolated from cerebral arteries of male Sprague-Dawley rats maintained on an HS (4% NaCl) or a low-salt diet (0.4% NaCl) for 3 days. The stable prostacyclin analog iloprost (10 ng/ml) inhibited serotonin (0.1-10 microM)-induced contractions and the increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in VSMC isolated from arteries of animals fed the low-salt diet. In contrast, iloprost had no effect on serotonin-induced contractions and increases in [Ca2+]i in VSMC isolated from arteries of rats fed the HS diet. Preventing the fall in ANG in rats fed the HS diet by infusion of a low dose of ANG II (5 ng.kg(-1).min(-1) i.v.) restored the inhibitory effect of iloprost on serotonin-induced contractions and increases in [Ca2+]i in VSMC from animals fed the HS diet. These effects were reversed by AT1 receptor blockade with losartan. These results indicate that ANG II suppression secondary to elevated dietary salt intake impairs vascular relaxation and Ca2+ regulation by prostacyclin.
Inhibitory effect of high concentration of glucose on relaxations to activation of ATP-sensitive K+ channels in human omental artery.	The present study was designed to examine in the human omental artery whether high concentrations of D-glucose inhibit the activity of ATP-sensitive K+ channels in the vascular smooth muscle and whether this inhibitory effect is mediated by the production of superoxide.
KATP-channel-induced vasodilation is modulated by the Na,K-pump activity in rabbit coronary small arteries.	The purpose of the study was to evaluate the importance of the Na,K-pump in relaxations induced by K(ATP)-channel openers in rabbit coronary small arteries. Arterial segments were mounted in myographs for recording of isometric tension. Whole-cell patch clamp was used to assess K(ATP)-channel currents in isolated smooth muscle cells from the arteries. In arteries preconstricted with the thromboxane A(2) analogue U46619 pinacidil and cromakalim induced concentration-dependent relaxations. In arteries preconstricted with potassium (124 mM) only high concentrations of pinacidil had a small relaxant effect. In arteries preconstricted with U46619 pinacidil-induced relaxations were unaffected by pretreatment with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) and only slightly reduced after mechanical removal of the endothelium. Pinacidil induced relaxations were not significantly affected by 1 microM glibenclamide. However, the relaxations were partly inhibited in potassium-free media and by 1 microM ouabain. In contrast, the concentration-dependent relaxation to cromakalim was partly blocked by 1 microM glibenclamide and partly by 1 microM ouabain and when both drugs were present the inhibition increased. Ouabain (1 microM) and glibenclamide (1 microM) each partly inhibited an ATP-sensitive current induced by pinacidil and cromakalim. In the presence of both inhibitors a greater inhibition was seen. When the solution in the patch pipette was sodium-free the current was reduced and ouabain had no effect. The study suggests that the relaxation to cromakalim and most likely pinacidil is mediated through opening of K(ATP) channels. Inhibition of the Na,K-pump, however, may change the local environment for the K(ATP) channels (i.e. increases the ATP/ADPratio and/or decreases the transmembrane potassium gradient), which partly prevents the activation of the K(ATP)-channel current.
cGMP-dependent protein kinase mediates NO- but not acetylcholine-induced dilations in resistance vessels in vivo.	cGMP and cGMP-dependent protein kinase type I (cGKI) mediate the dilation of large vessels in response to NO and acetylcholine (ACh). However, the physiological significance of the NO/cGMP/cGKI pathway in resistance vessels is controversial. Here, we analyzed NO- and ACh-induced dilations of arterioles in cGKI-deficient (cGKI-/-) or endothelial NO synthase-deficient (eNOS-/-) mice. Mean arterial pressure was similar in cGKI-/- and wild-type mice (105 mm Hg). Pressure drops in response to intracarotid bolus application of the NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP) were almost abolished in cGKI-/- mice, whereas ACh-induced pressure decreases remained intact in cGKI-/- and eNOS-/- mice. The direct observation of arterioles in the cremaster muscle by intravital microscopy showed impaired SNP-induced dilations in cGKI-/- mice (by 80%) and normal ACh-induced dilations in cGKI-/- and eNOS-/- mice. ACh-induced dilations in eNOS-/- mice were attenuated by iberiotoxin (by 50%), indicating that they were mediated in part by Ca2+-activated K+ channels, but not by inhibitors of cyclooxygenase or p450-monooxygenases. We conclude that cGMP and cGKI are the major effectors of NO to induce acute dilations of murine resistance vessels. However, the NO/cGMP/cGKI pathway is not essential for ACh-induced dilation of arterioles and for basal blood pressure regulation in mice.
Impairment of PI3-K/Akt pathway underlies attenuated endothelial function in aorta of type 2 diabetic mouse model.	The phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-K) pathway, which activates serine/threonine protein kinase Akt, enhances endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) phosphorylation and nitric oxide (NO) production. We investigated the involvement of the PI3-K/Akt pathway in the relaxation responses to acetylcholine (ACh) and clonidine in a new type 2 diabetic model (streptozotocin plus nicotinamide-induced diabetic mice). Plasma glucose and insulin levels were significantly elevated in our model, and intravenous glucose tolerance tests revealed clear abnormalities in glucose tolerance and insulin responsiveness. Although in our model the ACh-induced relaxation and NOx- (NO2-+NO3-)/cGMP production were unchanged, the clonidine-induced and insulin-induced relaxations and NOx-/cGMP production were all greatly attenuated. In control mice, the clonidine-induced and insulin-induced relaxations were each abolished by LY294002 and by Wortmannin (inhibitors of PI3-K), and also by Akt-inhibitor treatment. The ACh-induced relaxation was unaffected by such treatments in either group of mice. The expression level of total Akt protein was significantly decreased in the diabetic mice aorta, but those for the p85 and p110gamma subunits of PI3-K were not. The clonidine-induced Ser-473 phosphorylation of Akt through PI3-K was significantly decreased in our model; however, that induced by ACh was not. These results suggest that relaxation responses and NO production mediated via the PI3-K/Akt pathway are decreased in this type 2 diabetic model. This may be a major cause of endothelial dysfunction (and the resulting hypertension) in type 2 diabetes.
The conduction of dilation along an arteriole is diminished in the cremaster muscle of hypertensive hamsters.	Arteriolar vasomotor responses can include a component that conducts along the vessel through gap junction channels. This study examined conducted vasomotor responses in arterioles of the hypertensive hamster. The cremaster muscle of normotensive (CHF-148) and spontaneously hypertensive (CHF-H4) hamsters was exteriorized. Micropipettes containing phenylephrine (0.1 M) or acetylcholine (ACh; 1.0 M) were positioned along second-order arterioles and diameter responses were recorded locally for every 0.4 mm upstream to 1.6 mm. Substantative local constrictions to phenylephrine(PE) were poorly conducted to the 0.4-mm site in normotensive and hypertensive hamsters. Local dilation to ACh decayed by 3 +/- 1 microm/mm as it conducted along arterioles of the normotensive hamster. In contrast, conducted dilation decayed by 7 +/- 1 microm/mm (p < 0.05) in the hypertensive hamster. This hypertension-induced increase in decay was reversed by alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade (phentolamine: 1 microM). However, arteriolar constriction to global alpha(1)- (PE) and alpha(2)- (clonidine) adrenergic agonists was unaffected by hypertension. Rather, sympathetic nervous activity was elevated in the hypertensive hamster as indicated by a greater reduction in arterial pressure upon sympathetic ablation (hexamethonium infusion: 30 mg/kg). This study provides the first evidence that vascular cell-cell communication is altered by the elevated sympathetic nervous activity observed in the hypertensive hamster.
Sildenafil citrate (viagra) induces cardioprotective effects after ischemia/reperfusion injury in infant rabbits.	Infants undergoing surgery for congenital heart disease are at risk for myocardial ischemia during cardiopulmonary bypass, circulatory arrest, or low-flow states. The purpose of this study was to demonstrate the effects of sildenafil, a selective phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE-5) inhibitor on myocardial functional improvement and infarct size reduction during ischemia/reperfusion injury in infant rabbits. Infant rabbits (aged 8 wk) were treated with sildenafil citrate (0.7 mg/kg i.v.) or normal saline 30 min before sustained ischemia for 30 min and reperfusion for 3 h. Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) was used to assess left ventricular cardiac output (LVCO) and aortic velocity time integral (VTI). After ischemia/reperfusion, risk area was demarcated by Evan's blue dye and infarct size determined by computer morphometry of triphenyltetrazolium chloride-stained sections. The sildenafil-treated group had preservation and elevation in LVCO (143% of baseline, p < 0.05) and an elevated aortic VTI (145% of baseline, p < 0.05) after 30 min of ischemia compared with the control group LVCO (72% of baseline, p < 0.05) and aortic VTI (73% of baseline, p < 0.05). This is a statistically significant increase in LVCO and aortic VTI in the sildenafil group compared with controls (n = 6/group, p < 0.05). The sildenafil-treated group had significant reduction in infarct size (15.5 +/- 1.2 versus 33 +/- 2.3 in the saline group, % risk area, mean +/- SEM, n = 10-15/group, p < 0.05). For the first time, we have shown that sildenafil citrate promotes myocardial protection in infant rabbits as evidenced by postischemic preservation and elevation in LVCO and aortic VTI and reduction in infarct size.
Exogenous nitric oxide inhibits sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction in human skin.	Two experiments were performed to identify whether nitric oxide (NO) inhibits sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction in human skin. In eight subjects increasing doses of sodium nitroprusside (SNP; 8.4 x 10(-6)-8.4 x 10(-3)m) were administered via intradermal microdialysis. At each dose of SNP, cutaneous vasoconstrictor responsiveness was assessed during a 3 min whole-body cold stress. The relative reduction in forearm cutaneous vascular conductance (CVC) during the cold stress was significantly attenuated for SNP doses greater than 8.4 x 10(-4)m (control: 63.0 +/- 4.1%, SNP 8.4 x 10(-6)m: 57.1 +/- 4.7%, SNP 8.4 x 10(-5)m: 57.0 +/- 3.6%, SNP 8.4 x 10(-4)m: 44.5 +/- 5.4% and SNP 8.4 x 10(-3)m: 28.8 +/- 7.9%). The second experiment was performed to identify whether this response was due to NO attenuating sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction or due to a non-specific effect of an elevated CVC secondary to SNP administration. In seven subjects forearm CVC during a whole-body cold stress was assessed at two sites: at a site dilated via microdialysis administration of SNP and at a site dilated with isoproterenol (ISO). CVC was not different between sites prior to (SNP: 0.42 +/- 0.11; ISO: 0.46 +/- 0.11 AU mmHg(-1) (AU, arbitrary units), P > 0.05) or following drug infusion (SNP: 1.36 +/- 0.21; ISO: 1.27 +/- 0.23 AU mmHg(-1), P > 0.05). The reduction in CVC during the subsequent cold stress was significantly less at the SNP site (38.1 +/- 6.2%) relative to the ISO site (65.0 +/- 5.5%; P= 0.007). These data suggest NO is capable of inhibiting sympathetically mediated vasoconstriction in the cutaneous vasculature.
Exhaled nitric oxide before and after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass--response to acetylcholine and nitroglycerin.	Pulmonary endothelial dysfunction may occur after ischaemia-reperfusion injury and can be revealed as a reduced vasodilatory response upon administration of acetylcholine (ACh). ACh also releases the endothelium-derived vasodilator nitric oxide but direct measurements of this gas are difficult to perform in vivo. We wanted to study the effects of i.v. administration of ACh and the endothelium-independent vasodilator nitroglycerin on exhaled nitric oxide in relation to pulmonary endothelial dysfunction after open-heart surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
Angiotensin-(1-7) attenuates neointimal formation after stent implantation in the rat.	Angiotensin-(1-7) is an endogenous, biologically active peptide of the renin-angiotensin system with vasodilatory, antithrombotic, and antiproliferative properties. This study examined the effects of angiotensin-(1-7) infusion on neointimal formation after stent placement in the rat. Male Wistar rats underwent stent implantation in the abdominal aorta or sham surgery. Subsequently, an osmotic minipump was placed for angiotensin-(1-7) (24 microg/kg per hour) or saline administration. After 4 weeks, histomorphometric and histological analyses were performed, and the endothelial function was measured in isolated thoracic aortic rings. Stent implantation resulted in equal mean injury scores within the groups. The angiotensin-(1-7)-treated group displayed a significant reduction in neointimal thickness (112+/-8 versus 141+/-11 microm; P<0.05), neointimal area (0.51+/-0.05 versus 0.70+/-0.07 mm2; P<0.05), and percentage stenosis (10.4+/-1.0 versus 14.0+/-1.3%; P<0.05) compared with the saline-treated group. Furthermore, angiotensin-(1-7) infusion attenuated the stenting-induced impairment in endothelium-dependent relaxation (42.6+/-3.0 versus 64.5+/-6.0% of phenylephrine maximal contraction; P<0.001). In conclusion, angiotensin-(1-7) treatment attenuates neointimal formation after stent implantation in the rat, combined with an improvement of endothelial function.
Small artery remodeling depends on tissue-type transglutaminase.	Remodeling of small arteries is essential in the long-term regulation of blood pressure and blood flow to specific organs or tissues. A large part of the change in vessel diameter may occur through non-growth-related reorganization of vessel wall components. The hypothesis was tested that tissue-type transglutaminase (tTG), a cross-linking enzyme, contributes to the inward remodeling of small arteries. The in vivo inward remodeling of rat mesenteric arteries, induced by low blood flow, was attenuated by inhibition of tTG. Rat skeletal muscle arteries expressed tTG, as identified by Western blot and immunostaining. In vitro, activation of these arteries with endothelin-1 resulted in inward remodeling, which was blocked by tTG inhibitors. Small arteries obtained from rats and pigs both showed inward remodeling after exposure to exogenous transglutaminase, which was inhibited by addition of a nitric oxide donor. Enhanced expression of tTG, induced by retinoic acid, increased inward remodeling of porcine coronary arteries kept in organ culture for 3 days. The activity of tTG was dependent on pressure. Inhibition of tTG reversed remodeling, causing a substantial increase in vessel diameter. In a collagen gel contraction assay, tTG determined the compaction of collagen by smooth muscle cells. Collectively, these data show that small artery remodeling associated with chronic vasoconstriction depends on tissue-type transglutaminase. This mechanism may reveal a novel therapeutic target for pathologies associated with inward remodeling of the resistance arteries.
Loss of endothelium-dependent relaxation in abdominal aorta preserved in a co-storage system.	The potentially detrimental influence of parenchymal cells on endothelial function during preservation in UW solution was examined by co-storage of rat abdominal aortic rings with isolated liver cells. Cold storage of rings in UW solution alone for up to 96 h had no effect on the response to acetylcholine, though constriction was progressively lost. Co-storage of rings with liver cells resulted in no loss of sodium nitroprusside response, but the relaxation response to acetylcholine was reduced. The loss of acetylcholine response could not be attributed to Kupffer cells, the lowering of pH, oxygen depletion, or the loss of constriction. A similar loss of endothelial function was observed in rings stored in pieces of liver, kidney or heart. We conclude that parenchymal cells exude factors during preservation by cold storage which reversibly inhibit vascular NO production. These factors could significantly impair whole organ function on reperfusion.
Altered airway responsiveness in CD38-deficient mice.	Cyclic ADP-ribose (cADPR) mobilizes calcium from intracellular stores and contributes to agonist-induced intracellular calcium elevation in airway smooth muscle (ASM). In this study we determined the functional role of CD38/cADPR signaling in the regulation of airway tone using CD38 deficient (cd38(-/-)) mice. The responsiveness to different doses of methacholine, as determined by changes in lung resistance and dynamic compliance, was significantly (P < or = 0.05) lower in cd38(-/-) mice compared with wild-type controls. To determine the mechanism responsible for the reduced responsiveness, we measured the intracellular calcium responses to contractile agonists in ASM cells. In ASM cells isolated from cd38(-/-) mice, the intracellular calcium responses to acetylcholine and endothelin-1 were significantly lower than in controls. Pretreatment of ASM cells with a cADPR antagonist resulted in attenuated intracellular calcium responses to endothelin-1 in cells isolated from wild-type mice, but not in those isolated from the cd38(-/-) mice. Very low cADPR levels and no detectable ADP-ribosyl cyclase activity were observed in lung tissue from cd38(-/-) mice, suggesting that CD38 is a critical source for cADPR synthesis. The results of the present study demonstrate that CD38/cADPR contributes to airway smooth muscle tone and responsiveness through its effects on agonist-induced elevation of intracellular calcium in ASM cells.
Effect of nicorandil, a K+ATP -channel opener, on coronary capillary architecture and volume after early myocardial ischemia-reperfusion--a 3-dimensional confocal laser microscopic study--.	Previous experimental and clinical studies have reported that nicorandil, an adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive K+ channel opener, exerts a beneficial effect on microvascular function and clinical outcome after myocardial ischemia. The present study assessed whether intravenous administration of nicorandil affects the 3-dimensional (3-D) architectural characteristics of capillaries and their volume after early myocardial reperfusion.
The behaviour of the flow-mediated brachial artery vasodilatation during orthostatic stress in normal man.	Flow-mediated brachial artery vasodilatation is an index of endothelial function. Published literature describes only supine data and no study has been performed during vertical displacement. This subject deserves investigation for two main reasons: humans spend the larger part of their life in the upright position; this position has significant effects on neural vascular regulation.
Vascular endothelial dysfunction tested by blunted response to endothelium-dependent vasodilation by salbutamol and its related factors in uncomplicated pre-menopausal obese women.	Vascular endothelial dysfunction (VED) plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and is associated with insulin resistance and visceral obesity. We examined the predicting factors of VED in uncomplicated premenopausal obese women using analysis of endothelium-dependent vasodilation by radial artery pulse wave obtained through applanation tonometry.
Differential effects of sodium tungstate and vanadyl sulfate on vascular responsiveness to vasoactive agents and insulin sensitivity in fructose-fed rats.	High fructose feeding induces insulin resistance, impaired glucose tolerance, and hypertension in rats and mimics most of the features of the metabolic syndrome X. The effects of a 6-week treatment with the transition metals administered in drinking water, vanadium (VOSO4.5H2O, 0.75 mg/mL) or tungsten (Na2O4W, 2 g/mL), were investigated on the reactivity to norepinephrine (NEPI) or acetylcholine (ACh) of thoracic aorta rings isolated from fructose (60%) or standard chow fed rats. Maximal effect (Emax) and pD2 (-log EC50) values were determined in each case in the presence or absence of endothelium, while the degree of insulin resistance was determined using the euglycemic hyper insulinemic glucose clamp technique. Aortic segments isolated from 6-week fructose-fed animals were characterized by NEPI hyperresponsiveness (increase in Emax) and endothelium-dependent NEPI supersensitivity (increase in pD2) without any change in the reactivity to ACh. Vanadium or tungsten administered in fructose-fed animals prevented both hypertension and NEPI hyperresponsiveness, while vanadium, but not tungsten, reduced NEPI supersensitivity. Vanadium, but not tungsten, increased the relaxing activity of ACh, both in control and fructose-fed animals. Insulin resistance associated with high fructose feeding was reversed by vanadium but not by tungsten treatment. The differential effects of the two transition metals on vascular responsiveness to NEPI or ACh may be explained by their differential effects on insulin sensitivity.
Poly-ADP-ribose polymerase inhibition reduces mesenteric injury after cardiopulmonary bypass.	We investigated the effects of PARS inhibition on intestinal injury in a canine model of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB).
Endothelial nitric oxide synthase gene transfer restores endothelium-dependent relaxations and attenuates lesion formation in carotid arteries in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice.	Nitric oxide (NO) and monocyte chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) exert partly opposing effects in vascular biology. NO plays pleiotropic vasoprotective roles including vasodilation and inhibition of platelet aggregation, smooth muscle cell proliferation, and endothelial monocyte adhesion, the last effect being mediated by MCP-1 downregulation. Early stages of arteriosclerosis are associated with reduced NO bioactivity and enhanced MCP-1 expression. We have evaluated adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of human endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) and of a N-terminal deletion (8ND) mutant of the MCP-1 gene that acts as a MCP-1 inhibitor in arteriosclerosis-prone, apolipoprotein E-deficient (ApoE(-/-)) mice. Endothelium-dependent relaxations were impaired in carotid arteries instilled with a noncoding adenoviral vector but were restored by eNOS gene transfer (p < 0.01). A perivascular collar was placed around the common carotid artery to accelerate lesion formation. eNOS gene transfer reduced lesion surface areas, intima/media ratios, and macrophage contents in the media at 5-week follow-up (p < 0.05). In contrast, 8ND-MCP-1 gene transfer did not prevent lesion formation. In conclusion, eNOS gene transfer restores endothelium-dependent vasodilation and inhibits lesion formation in ApoE(-/-) mouse carotids. Further studies are needed to assess whether vasoprotection is maintained at later disease stages and to evaluate the long-term efficacy of eNOS gene therapy for primary arteriosclerosis.
Inflammation, insulin, and endothelial function in overweight children and adolescents: the role of exercise.	To assess subclinical inflammation, fasting insulin, and endothelial function before and after exercise in overweight children and adolescents.
Clinical impact of selective spasm provocation tests: comparisons between acetylcholine and ergonovine in 1508 examinations.	There are few reports regarding the concordance of coronary arterial response between acetylcholine (ACh) and ergonovine (ER) spasm provocation tests.
Not so EEZE: the 'EDHF' antagonist 14, 15 epoxyeicosa-5(Z)-enoic acid has vasodilator properties in mesenteric arteries.	P-450 metabolites, including the epoxyeicosatrienoic acids, are likely candidates for endothelial derived hyperpolarising factor (EDHF). In the present study, we confirm that the stable analogue 11-nonyloxyundec-8(Z)-enoic acid is a vasodilator of murine vessels. However, we also show that the 'epoxyeicosatrienoic acid receptor' antagonist 14,15 EEZE similarly dilates murine vessels contracted with U46619, prostaglandin F2alpha or methoxamine, but not with endothelin-1 or potassium. We suggest that 14,15 EEZE is a partial agonist for the epoxyeicosatrienoic acids/EDHF receptor. These results illustrate an important pharmacological property of this antagonists, which is being increasingly used to study the nature of EDHF.
Regulation of thrombomodulin expression in human vascular smooth muscle cells by COX-2-derived prostaglandins.	There is concern that cyclooxygenase (COX)-2 inhibitors may promote atherothrombosis by inhibiting vascular formation of prostacyclin (PGI2) and an increased thrombotic risk of COX-2 inhibitors has been reported. It is widely accepted that the prothrombotic effects of COX-2 inhibitors can be explained by the removal of platelet-inhibitory PGI2. Using microarray chip technology, we have previously demonstrated that thrombomodulin (TM) mRNA is upregulated in cultured human coronary artery smooth muscle cells by the stable prostacyclin mimetic iloprost. This study is the first to demonstrate a stimulation of the expression of functionally active thrombomodulin in human smooth muscle cells by prostaglandins, endogenously formed via the COX-2 pathway. Because TM is an important inhibitor of blood coagulation, these findings provide a novel platelet-independent mechanism to explain the prothrombotic effects of COX-2 inhibitors. The full text of this article is available online at http://circres.ahajournals.org.
Changes of local brain tissue oxygen pressure after vasopressin during spontaneous circulation.	Brain tissue oxygen pressure (PbtO2) correlates to cerebral blood flow (CBF) during spontaneous circulation, with one important regulator being nitric oxide (NO). Although it is established that arginine vasopressin (AVP) improves CBF and global cerebral oxygenation during cardiopulmonary resuscitation, it is unknown whether similar beneficial effects are present during spontaneous circulation. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of AVP with and without pre-treatment with the NO synthase inhibitor N-omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) on local brain tissue oxygenation in a beating heart model.
The in vitro and in vivo pharmacological activity of Boiga dendrophila (mangrove catsnake) venom.	The great taxonomic and prey base diversity of colubrids (non-front-fanged snakes) suggests that their venoms may represent a 'literal gold mine' for scientists eager to find novel pharmacological probes. While pharmacological characterization is lacking for most of these venoms, this is even more so with regard to activity of colubrid venoms on the mammalian autonomic nervous system. This study characterizes the activity of venom from the colubrid, Boiga dendrophila using in vitro smooth muscle preparations and the anaesthetized rat. In the prostatic segment of the rat vas deferens, cumulative additions of venom (1-150 microg ml(-1)) induced concentration-dependent inhibition of electrically evoked (0.2 Hz, 0.3 ms, 70-100 V) twitches. The inhibitory effect of venom (100 microg ml(-1)) was attenuated by 8-phenyltheophylline (8-PT) (20 microM) and 8-cyclopentyl-1, 3-dipropylxanthine (20 microM) but not idazoxan (1 microM), or a combination of ranitidine (0.2 microM) and thioperamide (10 microM). The inhibitory effect of venom (100 microg ml(-1)) was augmented by dipyridamole (10 microM) but abolished by pretreatment with adenosine deaminase (7.5 units/100 microl) suggesting that it contains components with adenosine A(1) receptor activity, most likely adenosine. In isolated segments of guinea-pig ileum, venom (10-100 microg ml(-1)) caused concentration-dependent contractions which were inhibited by the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine (0.1 microM) but not by the histamine receptor antagonist mepyramine (0.5 microM). In the anaesthetized rat, venom (5-7.5 mg kg(-1), i.v.) caused a hypotensive effect. Our data suggest that the venom contains components with purinergic and muscarinic receptor activity.
Prolonged nitric oxide inhalation during recovery from chronic hypoxia does not decrease nitric oxide-dependent relaxation in pulmonary arteries.	To investigate the effects of long-term nitric oxide (NO) inhalation on the recovery process of right ventricular hypertrophy (RVH) and functional alterations in the NO-cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) relaxation pathway in rat conduit pulmonary arteries (PAs) in established chronic hypoxic pulmonary hypertension.
Static magnetic fields alter arteriolar tone in vivo.	This study was designed to directly quantify the effect of localized static magnetic field (SMF) exposure on the diameter of microvessels in adult rat skeletal muscle in vivo. Microvascular networks in the exteriorized rat spinotrapezius microvasculature were exposed to a localized, uniform 70 mT SMF for 15 min. Arteriolar vessel diameters were measured; and the extent of vessel contraction, microvascular tone, was calculated before exposure, immediately after exposure, and 15 and 30 min after removal of the field. A calculated value of high tone corresponds to vessels that are vasoconstricted and a calculated value of low tone refers to vessels that are vasodilated. Vessels with initial tone <15% showed an increasing trend in tone and, conversely, vessels with initial tone >15% showed a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in tone 15 and 30 min following application, respectively. Further classification of the data with regards to the initial vessel diameter demonstrated that vessels with initial diameters <30 microm and initial tone <15%, smaller diameter vessels that are initially vasodilated, showed significant (P < 0.05) increase in tone immediately, 15 and 30 min following SMF exposure. Additionally, <30 microm vessels with >15% initial tone, smaller diameter vessels that are initially vasoconstricted, demonstrated a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in tone 30 min after SMF exposure. Vessels with initial diameters >30 microm had no significant response to the SMF. These results imply that SMF exposure influences arteriolar diameters, and therefore microvascular tone, in a restorative fashion acting to normalize the tone to the median tone value of 15% following exposure. Because this response occurs primarily in the resistance arterioles, which significantly influence tissue perfusion, SMF application could be efficacious for the treatment of both ischemic and edematous tissue disorders involving compromised microvascular function.
Variations of endothelium-dependent vasoresponses in congestive heart failure.	Endothelium-dependent vasodilation decreases in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). Whether this decreased vasodilation occurs simultaneously in different vascular beds has not been elucidated. We studied the vasomotor reactivity in both coronary and peripheral resistance vessels in a rat CHF model produced by ligating the left coronary artery. Variations in vessel diameter in response to vasoactive drug administration were measured using an in vitro system of coronary resistance vessels from cardiac muscle and peripheral resistance vessels from cremaster muscle. Vascular responses to acetylcholine were impaired in the early stage of CHF (at 2 weeks), whereas the reaction to bradykinin was preserved. NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) inhibited the responses of acetylcholine; however, L-NMMA only partially inhibited the responses to bradykinin. Vascular reactivity to A23187 was preserved in the early stage and was impaired in the late stage of CHF (at 8 weeks). These reactions were inhibited by L-NMMA. The response to sodium nitroprusside remained constant in both stages of CHF. The responses were similar in the coronary resistance and peripheral resistance vessels. This suggests that acetylcholine transmission is impaired in the early stages of CHF but that with CHF of longer duration there is progressive impairment of nitric oxide production and release in both coronary and peripheral resistance vessels.
Oral sildenafil reduces pulmonary hypertension after cardiac surgery.	Treatment of postoperative pulmonary hypertension with intravenous (IV) pulmonary vasodilators is hampered by the lack of selectivity. Inhaled nitric oxide produces selective pulmonary vasodilation; however, it requires a special device, and weaning can cause rebound. Oral sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase type V inhibitor. Sildenafil can produce sustained pulmonary vasodilatation in patients with hypoxic or primary pulmonary hypertension; however, experience with postoperative pulmonary hypertension is limited. We report our initial experience with eight patients who received oral sildenafil as adjunctive therapy for postoperative pulmonary hypertension
Statins as coronary vasodilators in isolated bovine coronary arteries--involvement of PGI2 and NO.	Here we studied direct vasodilation induced by statins in isolated bovine coronary arteries. In rings of coronary bovine arteries preconstricted with prostaglandin F(2 alpha) (3 x 10(-8) - 10(-5)), lovastatin, simvastatin, atorvastatin and cerivastatin (3-30 microM) but not pravastatin induced concentration-dependent vasodilation. Removal of endothelium diminished response to simvastatin, cerivastatin and atorvastatin (30 microM) (67.4+/-4.56 vs. 22.7+/-8.14%, 96.9+/-2.27% vs. 54.5+/-6.86%, 67.4+/-4.01% vs. 34.6+/-5.66%, respectively). In presence of L-NAME (300 microM) or indomethacin (5 microM) responses to simvastatin, atorvastatin and cerivastatin, were also partially diminished. In contrast, lovastatin-induced vasorelaxation was not significantly affected by removal of endothelium (35.6+/-4.19% vs. 28.8+/-5.24%) or by pretreatment with L-NAME or indomethacin. In summary, with the exception of pravastatin, statins act as coronary vasodilators. Simvastatin, cerivastatin and atorvastatin but not lovastatin induced vasodilation displayed endothelium dependent- and endothelium-independent components. The endothelium-dependent effect of statins was mediated by NO and PGI(2), while the mechanism of smooth muscle cells-dependent component remains to be determined.
Greater vasopressin-induced vasoconstriction and inferior effects of nitrovasodilators and milrinone in the radial artery than in the internal thoracic artery.	Vasopressin may be a potential cause of spasm in both the radial artery and the internal thoracic artery. This study compared the vasopressin-induced contraction and the effects of milrinone, nitroglycerin, and nitroprusside in vasopressin-induced contraction between the human radial artery and the internal thoracic artery to find effective antispastic methods for arterial grafts.
Effect of MCI-154 on calcium sensitivity of vascular smooth muscle and its mechanism in hemorrhagic shock in rats]	To observe the effects of new calcium sensitizer MCI-154 on calcium sensitivity of vascular smooth muscle following hemorrhagic shock (HS) in rats, and to explore its mechanism.
Impaired endothelium-dependent responses and enhanced influence of Rho-kinase in cerebral arterioles in type II diabetes.	Although the incidence of type II diabetes is increasing, very little is known regarding vascular responses in the cerebral circulation in this disease. The goals of this study were to examine the role of superoxide in impaired endothelium-dependent responses and to examine the influence of Rho-kinase on vascular tone in the cerebral microcirculation in type II diabetes.
Pharmacological properties of furoxans and benzofuroxans: recent developments.	The chemistry of furoxans (1, 2, 5-oxadiazole-2-oxides) and benzofuroxans (benzo[1, 2-c]1, 2, 5-oxadiazole-1-oxides) is very well known. These systems are widely used in organic chemistry as intermediate compounds for the synthesis of numerous heterocycles. In the other hand, furoxan and benzofuroxan derivatives were extensively studied as bioactive compounds. They possess remarkable biological activities, such as anti-microbial and anti-parasitic properties, mutagenic, immunosuppressive and anticancer effects, anti-aggregating and vasorelaxant activity, among others. In some cases, molecular mode of action was proposed. Recently, the research and development in the medicinal chemistry of these systems have produced hybrid compounds in which furoxan or benzofuroxan moieties together with a classical drug moieties are present in a single molecule. So, new anti-ulcer drugs, calcium channel modulators and vasodilator derivatives were described and they are currently in study. In this presentation recent developments in the medicinal chemistry of furoxans and benzofuroxans will be reviewed.
The synthesis of 20-HETE in small porcine coronary arteries antagonizes EDHF-mediated relaxation.	Exogenous application of 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE) to small (300-500 microm) porcine coronary arteries elicits contraction by activating the Rho kinase and increasing the sensitivity of contractile proteins to Ca2+. Here, we determined whether 20-HETE is involved in the regulation of coronary artery tone as well as its role in the modulation of endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated responses.
Role of beta2 adrenergic receptors in human atherosclerotic coronary arteries.	Adrenergic regulation of coronary vasomotion is balanced between alpha1-adrenergic-mediated (alpha1-AR) constriction and beta2-adrenergic-mediated (beta2-AR) relaxation. This study aimed at assessing the role of beta2-ARs in normal, mildly atherosclerotic, and stenotic human coronary arteries.
Effects of inhaled nitrous oxide 50% on estimated cerebral perfusion pressure and zero flow pressure in healthy volunteers.	The role of vascular tone in determining cerebral perfusion pressure is increasingly being appreciated. It has been suggested that zero flow pressure, the arterial pressure at which blood flow ceases, represents the effective downstream pressure of the cerebral circulation. Nitrous oxide is a cerebral vasodilator and may therefore decrease zero flow pressure and increase cerebral perfusion pressure. However, these effects may be opposed by the increase in intracranial blood volume produced by cerebral vasodilation. We studied eight healthy volunteers at normocapnia and studied the effects of the inhalation of nitrous oxide 50% on estimated cerebral perfusion pressure and zero flow pressure using transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. We found that nitrous oxide 50% significantly increased estimated cerebral perfusion pressure (p = 0.03), whilst decreasing zero flow pressure (p = 0.01). These results suggest that the vasomotor effects of nitrous oxide predominate in determining the effective downstream pressure of the cerebral circulation in healthy individuals.
Levosimendan is superior to milrinone and dobutamine in selectively increasing microvascular gastric mucosal oxygenation in dogs.	The effect of levosimendan, a novel inotropic vasodilator (inodilator), on the microvascular gastric mucosal hemoglobin oxygenation (muHbo(2)) is unknown. A possible effect could thereby be selective for the splanchnic region or could primarily reflect changes in systemic oxygen transport (Do(2)) and/or oxygen consumption (Vo(2). We compared systemic and regional effects of levosimendan with those of established inotropes, milrinone and dobutamine.
Influence of resting tension on protease-activated receptor-mediated relaxation in guinea-pig tracheas.	We investigate the role of resting tension on thrombin (THR) induced relaxation of guinea-pig tracheas precontracted with acetylcholine (ACh). Isometric contractions of isolated guinea-pig tracheas were recorded at 4 and 6 g resting tension; and ACh dose-response curves were performed. THR relaxed ACh-precontracted tracheas and this effect was mimicked by the type 2 protease activating receptor agonist peptide (PAR-2 AP) and trypsin. The relaxant effect of 3 U ml(-1) THR and 100 nmol ml(-1) PAR-2 AP was prevented at 4 g by preincubation with the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor l-NAME and at 6g resting tension by ibuprofen and diclofenac. However, adenosine trisphospahate (ATP) relaxation was totally prevented by cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitors but not by NOS inhibitors at both resting tensions. Resting tension influenced the effect of PGE2 on contractile tone of isolated guinea-pig tracheas, the maximal relaxation being -11.1+/-2.97 and -2.0+/-0.4 6 mg mg(-1) tissue wet weight at 6 and 4 g, respectively. Moreover, 30 nmol ml(-1) PGE2 can relax ACh-precontracted tracheas, being the effect up to 91 and 30% at 6 and 4 g, respectively. These data demonstrate that trachea responsiveness is highly dependent on the smooth muscle length, revealing new aspects of stretch-activated receptors that can influence trachea responsiveness in vivo.
Control of oxidative stress in microcirculation of spontaneously hypertensive rats.	One mechanism for organ damage in individuals with arterial hypertension may be due to oxygen free radical production. This study was designed to localize free radicals in a microvascular network of mature spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Because glucocorticoids play a role in pressure elevation of SHRs, we investigated their role in microvascular free radical formation. Oxygen radical production in mesentery was detected by tetranitroblue tetrazolium reduction to formazan aided by digital light-absorption measurements. Formazan deposits were observed in the endothelial cells and lumens of all microvessels and in lymphatic endothelia but were fewer in tissue parenchyma. The formazan distribution in younger (14-16 wk old) WKY rats and SHRs was heterogeneous with low values in capillaries and small arterioles/venules (<30 microm) but enhanced deposits in larger venules. Adrenalectomy served to reduce the formazan density in SHRs to the level of WKY rats, whereas dexamethasone supplementation of the adrenalectomized rats caused elevation in the larger venules of SHRs. In older (40 wk old) SHRs, formazan levels were elevated in all hierarchies of microvessels. After pressure reduction was employed with chronic hydralazine treatment, the formazan deposits were reduced in all locations of the microcirculation in both WKY rats and SHRs. Elevated formazan deposits were also found in lymphatic endothelium. These results suggest that oxygen free radical production is elevated in both high- and low-pressure regions of SHR microcirculation via a process that is controlled by glucocorticoids. Older SHRs have higher formazan levels than younger SHRs in all microvessels. Chronic hydralazine treatment, which serves to reduce arterial blood pressure, attenuates tetranitroblue tetrazolium reduction in WKY rats and SHRs even in venules of the microcirculation, which has no micropressure elevation. Free radical production may be a more global condition in SHRs and may not be limited to arteries and arterioles.
Impaired insulin-induced vasodilation in small coronary arteries of Zucker obese rats is mediated by reactive oxygen species.	Insulin resistance (IR) and associated hyperinsulinemia are major risk factors for coronary artery disease. Mechanisms linking hyperinsulinemia to coronary vascular dysfunction in IR are unclear. We evaluated insulin-induced vasodilation in isolated small coronary arteries (SCA; approximately 225 microm) of Zucker obese (ZO) and control Zucker lean (ZL) rats. Vascular responses to insulin (0.1-100 ng/ml), ACh (10(-9)-10(-5) mol/l), and sodium nitroprusside (10(-8)-10(-4) mol/l) were assessed in SCA by measurement of intraluminal diameter using videomicroscopy. Insulin-induced dilation was decreased in ZO compared with ZL rats, whereas ACh and sodium nitroprusside elicited similar vasodilations. Pretreatment of arteries with SOD (200 U/ml), a scavenger of reactive oxygen species (ROS), restored the vasorelaxation response to insulin in ZO arteries, whereas ZL arteries were unaffected. Pretreatment of SCA with N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 micromol/l), an inhibitor of endothelial nitric oxide (NO) synthase (eNOS), elicited a vasoconstrictor response to insulin that was greater in ZO than in ZL rats. This vasoconstrictor response was reversed to vasodilation in ZO and ZL rats by cotreatment of the SCA with SOD or apocynin (10 micromol/l), a specific inhibitor of vascular NADPH oxidase. Lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence showed increased basal ROS levels as well as insulin (330 ng/ml)-stimulated production of ROS in ZO arteries that was sensitive to inhibition by apocynin. Western blot analysis revealed increased eNOS expression in ZO rats, whereas Mn SOD and Cu,Zn SOD expression were similar to ZL rats. Thus IR in ZO rats leads to decreased insulin-induced vasodilation, probably as a result of increased production of ROS by vascular NADPH oxidase, leading to decreased NO bioavailability, despite a compensatory increase in eNOS expression.
The pulmonary biology of isoprostanes.	Isoprostanes were first recognized as convenient markers of oxidative stress, but their powerful effects on a variety of cell functions are now also being increasingly appreciated. This is particularly true of the lung, which is comprised of a wide variety of different cell types (smooth muscle, innervation, epithelium, lymphatics, etc.), all of which have been shown to respond to exogenously applied isoprostanes. In this review, we summarize these biological responses in the lung, and also consider the roles that isoprostanes might play in a range of pulmonary clinical disorders.
All D-VIP mitigates vasodilation elicited by L-VIP, micellar L-VIP and micellar PACAP1-38, but not PACAP1-38, in vivo.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether all D-vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), an inactive optical isomer of L-VIP, modulates the vasorelaxant effects of human L-VIP and pituitary adenylate cyclase activating peptide (PACAP)1-38, two ubiquitous and pleiotropic neuropeptides that activate VPAC1 and VPAC2, two VIP subtype receptors, in the intact peripheral microcirculation. Using intravital microscopy, we found that suffusion of all D-VIP had no significant effects on arteriolar diameter in the intact hamster cheek pouch. However, all D-VIP significantly attenuated L-VIP-induced vasodilation in a concentration-dependent fashion (P<0.05). likewise, all D-VIP significantly attenuated the vasorelaxant effects of L-VIP associated with sterically stabilized phospholipid micelles (SSM; P<0.05). Although all D-VIP had no significant effects on L-PACAP1-38-induced vasodilation, it abrogated PACAP1-38 in SSM-induced responses (P<0.05). The effects of all D-VIP were specific because it had no significant effects on acetylcholine-, nitroglycerin- and bradykinin-induced vasodilation. Taken together, these data indicate that all D-VIP attenuates the vasorelaxant effects of random coil and alpha-helix L-VIP as well as those of alpha-helix but not random coil PACAP in the intact peripheral microcirculation in a specific fashion. These effects are mediated, most likely, through interactions with VPAC1/VPAC2 receptors. We suggest that all D-VIP could be exploited as a novel, safe and active targeting moiety of VPAC1/VPAC2 receptors in vivo.
Endothelin-1 acts via protein kinase C to block KATP channels in rabbit coronary and pulmonary arterial smooth muscle cells.	We investigated the effects of the vasoconstrictor endothelin-1 (ET-1) on the whole-cell ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) currents of smooth muscle cells that were isolated enzymatically from rabbit coronary artery (CASMCs) and pulmonary artery (PASMCs). The size of the KATP current did not differ significantly between CASMCs and PASMCs. ET-1 reduced the KATP current in a concentration-dependent manner, and this inhibition was greater in PASMCs than in CASMCs (half-inhibition values of 12.20 nM and 1.98 nM in CASMCs and PASMCs, respectively). However, the level of inhibition induced by other vasoconstrictors (angiotensin II, norepinephrine, and serotonin) were not significantly different between CASMCs and PASMCs. Pretreatment with the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitors staurosporine (100 nM) and GF 109203X (1 microM) prevented ET-1-induced inhibition of the KATP current in both arterial smooth muscle cell preparations. The PKC activators phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) and 1-olelyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol (OAG) reduced the KATP current in dose-dependent manner. Although the numbers of ET receptors were not significantly different between the 2 arterial smooth muscle cell preparations, the effects of PDBu and OAG were greater on PASMCs. ET-1-induced inhibition of the KATP current was unaffected by the PKA inhibitor Rp-cAMPs (100 microM) and PKA inhibitory peptide (5 microM).
Effects of renal nerve stimulation on intrarenal blood flow in rats with intact or inactivated NO synthases.	We studied a possible action of nitric oxide (NO), an intrarenal vasodilator, to buffer a decrease in renal perfusion induced by electrical stimulation of renal nerves (RNS).
Kinin B2 receptor-coupled signal transduction in human cultured keratinocytes.	Kinins are key pro-inflammatory peptides that exhibit mitogenic effects in tissue-specific cellular systems. Since the life span of the keratinocyte is regulated by receptors that control proliferation and differentiation, and since both processes are affected during wound healing, we have examined the consequence of kinin B2 receptors (B2R) activation in cultured human keratinocytes. Stimulation of keratinocytes by Lys-bradykinin (LBK) induced a rapid and sustained phosphorylation of 42/44 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) that translocated to the nucleus, and decreased only after 120 min of stimulation. Kinin B1 and B2 receptor (B1R and B2R) antagonists showed that phosphorylation was mainly because of B2R activation. The GF109203X inhibitor almost completely abolished the effect of LBK, suggesting the involvement of protein kinase C in the signal cascade. MAPK phosphorylation was partially dependent on epidermal growth factor receptor transactivation as assessed by the selective inhibitor, AG1478. LBK stimulation did not result in cell proliferation, but produced a rapid c-Fos expression, nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappaB, and a moderated (pro)filaggrin synthesis, indicating that it may modulate cell differentiation. Our results support the view that kinins may affect the life span of human keratinocytes and highlight the importance that kinin peptides may have in the pathogenesis and/or progression of skin diseases.
Prevention of gentamicin induced ototoxicity by trimetazidine in animal model.	To show the efficacy of intra-peritoneally administered trimetazidine to prevent gentamicin ototoxicity, which is still an important cause of profound deafness among children in different parts of the world.
Alteration of binding sites for [3H]P1075 and [3H]glibenclamide in renovascular hypertensive rat aorta.	The alterations of the binding sites for ATP-sensitive K+ channel (K(ATP)) openers and blockers in aortic strips were investigated in hypertensive rats.
Activation of ATP-sensitive potassium channels prevents the cleavage of cytosolic mu-calpain and abrogates the elevation of nuclear c-Fos and c-Jun expressions after hypoxic-ischemia in neonatal rat brain.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether activation of ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels with diazoxide (DIZ) is able to prevent the cleavage of cytosolic mu-calpain and abrogate the elevation of nuclear c-Fos and c-Jun protein (c-Fos, c-Jun) expressions after hypoxic-ischemia (HI) in brain. The model of hypoxic-ischemic brain injury (HIBI) was made in the 7-day-old Sprague-Dawley (SD) rats by left carotid arterial ligation and hypoxia (8% oxygen). DIZ was injected into the left lateral ventricle (5 microl, 1 mg/ml) before or post-hypoxic-ischemia (HI) insults. Western blot and computer image processing were used to detect the integrated density of nuclear c-Fos and c-Jun at 4 h and cleavage of cytosolic mu-calpain at 24 h after HI insults from cerebral cortical and hippocampal samples. Compared with HI controls (c-Fos=30.37+/-7.39 from cortical samples, 58.61+/-3.64 from hippocampal samples; c-Jun=52.48+/-14.23 from cortical samples, 35.55+/-4.73 from hippocampal samples), there was a significant down-regulation of c-Fos and c-Jun expressions from cortical and hippocampal samples in rats treated with DIZ before (c-Fos=11.10+/-4.64 from cortical samples, 4.82+/-3.38 from hippocampal samples; c-Jun=19.01+/-5.29 from cortical samples, 35.55+/-4.73 from hippocampal samples) or post- (c-Fos=18.81+/-7.93 from cortical samples, 11.33+/-7.05 from hippocampal samples; c-Jun=24.64+/-10.01 from cortical samples, 19.75+/-3.47 from hippocampal samples) HI insults. Furthermore, the ratio of 76 kD/80 kD of mu-calpain was down-regulated from cortical and hippocampal samples in rats treated with DIZ before or post-HI insults, demonstrating a significant difference compared with that observed in HI controls. Finally, the increase in DNA fragments caused by the HI injury was decreased or eliminated by the treatment with DIZ. These data suggests that activation of KATP channels by DIZ reduces the degree of mu-calpain proteolysis, and c-Fos and c-Jun expressions in immature brain may contribute to the neuroprotection of K(ATP) channel openers against HIBI.
Trimetazidine in Angina Combination Therapy--the TACT study: trimetazidine versus conventional treatment in patients with stable angina pectoris in a randomized, placebo-controlled, multicenter study.	The aim of this study was to assess the efficacy and acceptability of trimetazidine (TMZ) in combination with hemodynamic agents (beta-blockers or long-acting nitrates) in 177 stable angina patients. In this randomized, placebo-controlled study (TACT: Trimetazidine in Angina Combination Therapy), stable angina patients resistant to nitrates or beta-blockers were selected. After a 1-week selection period (W0), patients who had a difference of <10% in duration between 2 positive exercise tests, defined as 1-mm ST-segment depression (STD) 80 milliseconds after J point with angina pain or 1.5 mm without pain were randomly treated with TMZ (20 mg t.i.d., n = 90) or placebo (Pbo t.i.d., n = 87) orally. A final exercise test was performed after 12 weeks of treatment (W12). The efficacy was assessed by exercise test duration, time to 1-mm STD, time to angina onset, mean number of angina attacks, mean short-acting nitrate consumption, and rate-pressure product. Differences (W12 - W0) in these parameters were analyzed using the Student t test. All statistical tests were conducted at the 5% significance level. At inclusion and during the study, 52% of patients received long-acting nitrates, and 48% were treated with a beta-blocker as monotherapy. At the beginning of the study, the TMZ and Pbo groups were statistically homogeneous with respect to all analyzed characteristics (demographic characteristics, characteristics of anamnesis, characteristics used for evaluation of antianginal therapy efficacy). For various reasons, 11 patients (7 from the Pbo group and 4 from the TMZ group) were excluded from the trial. A total of 166 patients (80 from the Pbo group and 86 from the TMZ group) completed the study in full compliance with the protocol. After 12 weeks of therapy, exercise test duration increased from 417.7 +/- 14.2 (W0) to 506.8 +/- 17.7 seconds (W12) in the TMZ group versus 435.3 +/- 14.8 (W0) to 458.9 +/- 16.2 seconds (W12) in the Pbo group (P < 0.05). Time to 1-mm STD increased from 389.0 +/- 15.3 (W0) to 479.6 +/- 18.6 seconds (W12) in the TMZ group versus 411.8 +/- 15.2 (W0) to 428.5 +/- 17.3 seconds (W12) in the Pbo group (P < 0.05). Time to onset of anginal pain increased from 417.0 +/- 16.9 (W0) to 517.3 +/- 21.0 seconds (W12) in the TMZ group versus 415.1 +/- 16.5 (W0) to 436.4 +/- 18.5 seconds (W12) in the Pbo group (P < 0.005). The mean number of anginal attacks per week decreased from 5.6 +/- 0.6 to 2.7 +/- 0.5 in the TMZ group versus 6.8 +/- 0.7 to 5.1 +/- 0.7 in the Pbo group (P < 0.05), mean consumption short-acting nitrates per week decreased from 5.2 +/- 0.9 to 2.8 +/- 0.8 in the TMZ group versus 5.5 +/- 0.8 to 4.1 +/- 0.9 in the Pbo group (NS). No change in the rate-pressure product was seen in both. The combination of trimetazidine with beta-blockers or long-acting nitrates significantly improves exercise stress test parameters and angina symptoms compared with placebo. Due to its metabolic effect, free of any hemodynamic action, trimetazidine has proven to be beneficial for combination in patients with stable angina.
Effect of estrogen therapy on cerebral arteries during stroke in female rats.	To investigate the effect of estrogen therapy on the structural and functional properties of the middle cerebral artery during ischemia and reperfusion.
Leukotoxin, 9,10-epoxy-12-octadecenoate, causes vasodilation in isolated pulmonary artery rings preconstricted with endothelin 1]	Leukotoxin, a cytochrome P450-dependent metabolite of linoleate synthesized by neutrophils, caused dose dependent vasodilation (10(15)-5 x 10(-4) M) of isolated rat pulmonary arterial rings preconstricted with endothelin 1 (10(-8) M), although similar doses of linoleate had no effect. The relaxing effect of leukotoxin was largely ablated by mechanical denudation of the endothelium and by treatment with L-NMMA (1 mM) and methylene blue (5 x 10(-6) M), but not indomethacin (10(-5) M). Endothelium-independent relaxation of leukotoxin was not inhibited by pretreatment with nicardipine (10(-6) M) in both pulmonary arterial rings and aortic rings. In A7r5 cultured rat aortic smooth muscle cells, leukotoxin markedly inhibited Ca2+ uptake in the basal nonstimulated state, and in the stimulated state with endothelin 1. We conclude that leukotoxin causes vascular tone-dependent vasodilation via augmentation of EDRF production, and causes decrease of intracellular calcium concentration that is not related to the dihydropyridine-sensitive calcium channel, which may be a mechanism of the endothelium-independent relaxation caused by leukotoxin.
Effect of caffeine on cerebral blood flow response to somatosensory stimulation.	Despite caffeine's wide consumption and well-documented psychoactive effects, little is known regarding the effects of caffeine on neurovascular coupling. In the present study, we evaluated the effects of caffeine, an adenosine receptor antagonist, on intracerebral arterioles in vitro and subsequently, on the pial circulation in vivo during cortical activation induced by contralateral sciatic nerve stimulation (SNS). In our in vitro studies, we utilized isolated intracerebral arterioles to determine the effects of caffeine (10 or 50 micromol/L) on adenosine-induced vasodilatation. At the lower concentration, caffeine was without effect, but at the higher concentration, caffeine produced significant attenuation. In our in vivo studies, we determined the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) caffeine concentrations at 15, 30, and 60 mins after intravenous administration of 5, 10 and 40 mg/kg. At the latter two concentrations, CSF levels exceeded 10 micromol/L. We then evaluated the pial arteriolar response during cortical activation caused by contralateral SNS after administering caffeine intravenously (0, 5, 10, 20 30, and 40 mg/kg). The pial circulation was observed through a closed cranial window in chloralose-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. The contralateral sciatic nerve was isolated, positioned on silver electrodes and stimulated for 20 secs (0.20 V, 0.5 ms, and 5 Hz). Arteriolar diameter was quantified using an automated video dimension analyzer. Contralateral SNS resulted in a 23.8% +/-3.9% increase in pial arteriolar diameter in the hindlimb sensory cortex under control conditions. Intravenous administration of caffeine at the lowest dose studied (5 mg/kg) had no effect on either resting arteriolar diameter or SNS-induced vasodilatation. However, at higher doses (10, 20, 30, and 40 mg/kg, intravenously), caffeine significantly (P < 0.05; n = 6) attenuated both resting diameter and cerebral blood flow (CBF) responses to somatosensory stimulation. Intravenous administration of theophylline (10, 20, and 40 mg/kg), another adenosine receptor antagonist, also significantly reduced SNS-induced vasodilatation in a dose-dependent manner. Hypercarbic vasodilatation was unaffected by either caffeine or theophylline. The results of the present study show that caffeine significantly reduces cerebrovascular responses to both adenosine and to somatosensory stimulation and supports a role of adenosine in the regulation of CBF during functional neuronal activity.
The vasodilatory effect of alfuzosin and tamsulosin in passive orthostasis: a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.	To compare in details the effects of urologically used alpha(1)-blockers alfuzosin and tamsulosin on the cardiovascular responses to passive orthostasis.
Hydrogen peroxide acts as both vasodilator and vasoconstrictor in the control of perfused mouse mesenteric resistance arteries.	Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) plays a key role in the control of resistance artery (RA) tone and is hypothesized as an endothelial-derived hyperpolarizing factor.
Dissociation of membrane potential and intracellular calcium during ventricular fibrillation.	Membrane potential and intracellular calcium during VF.
Urocortin-induced relaxation in the human internal mammary artery.	Urocortin, a potent vasodilator, plays physiological or pathophysiological roles in the cardiovascular system. However, little is known about its action in human vascular tissues. The present study was designed to investigate the vascular effect of urocortin on human internal mammary artery (IMA) in vitro and the possible underlying mechanisms.
Levosimendan: a new inodilatory drug for the treatment of decompensated heart failure.	Levosimendan is a new calcium sensitizer developed for the treatment of congestive heart failure. Experimental studies indicate that levosimendan increases myocardial contractility and dilates both the peripheral and coronary vessels. Its positive inotropic effect is based on calcium-dependent binding of the drug to cardiac troponin C. It also acts as an opener of ATP-dependent potassium channels in vascular smooth muscle, thus inducing vasodilation. Although levosimendan acts preferentially as a calcium sensitizer it has also demonstrated selective phosphodiesterase III inhibitory effects in vitro. However, this selective inhibition does not seem to contribute to the positive action at pharmacologically relevant concentrations. Levosimendan has an active metabolite, OR-1896. Similarly to levosimendan, the metabolite exerts its positive inotropic and vasodilatory effects on myocardium and vasculature. The elimination half-life of levosimendan is about 1 hour. Thus, with intravenous administration, the parent drug rapidly disappears from the circulation after the infusion is stopped. The active metabolite, however, has a half-life of approximately 80 hours, and can be detected in circulation up to 2 weeks after stopping a 24-hour infusion of levosimendan. The intravenous formulation of levosimendan has been studied in several randomized comparative studies in patients with decompensated heart failure. Both patients with ischemic and non-ischemic etiology have participated in the studies. Levosimendan produces significant, dose-dependent increases in cardiac output, stroke volume and heart rate, and decreases in PCWP, mean blood pressure, mean pulmonary artery pressure, mean right atrial pressure and total peripheral resistance. With a loading dose, the effects on PCWP and cardiac ouput are seen within few minutes. There is no sign of development of tolerance even with a prolonged infusion up to 48 hours. Cardiac performance is improved with no significant increases in oxygen consumption or potentially malignant rhythm disorders. Due to the formation of an active metabolite, the hemodynamic effects are maintained up to several days after stopping levosimendan infusion. Compared to dobutamine, levosimendan produces similar increase in cardiac output but profoundly greater decrease in pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. On the contrary to dobutamine, the hemodynamic effects are not attenuated with concomitant beta-blocker use. Levosimendan has been shown to have favourable effects on symptoms of heart failure superior to placebo and at least comparable to dobutamine. Mortality and morbidity in levosimendan treated patients has been shown to be significantly lower when compared to dobutamine or placebo treated patients. The most common adverse events associated with levosimendan treatment are headache and hypotension, as a likely consequence of the vasodilating properties of the compound. In conclusion, levosimendan offers a new effective option for the treatment of acutely decompensated heart failure. Unlike traditional inotropes, levosimendan seems also to be safe in terms of morbidity and mortality.
Detection of peripheral vascular stenosis by assessing skeletal muscle flow reserve.	We sought to determine whether the severity of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) can be assessed by measuring blood flow reserve in limb skeletal muscle with contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEU).
Abnormal endothelium-dependent microvascular reactivity in recently preeclamptic women.	To assess endothelial function at the level of skin microvasculature, using iontophoretic administration of acetylcholine (endothelium-dependent vasodilator) and sodium nitroprusside (endothelium-independent vasodilator), in women who recently had a preeclamptic pregnancy.
Effect of an aqueous distillate of Origanum onites L. on isolated rat fundus, duodenum and ileum: evidence for the role of oxygenated monoterpenes.	The aqueous distillate of Origanum onites L. (Labiatae) was reported to have various ethnomedical uses including effects on the gastrointestinal tract. The effects of three different doses (0.1, 0.2 and 0.4 mL) of the aqueous distillate of Origanum onites on isolated rat fundus, duodenum and ileum against acetylcholine induced contractions were investigated in this study. The aqueous distillate inhibited contractions in a dose dependent manner. Inhibitions were lowest on fundus. Carvacrol, being the major compound of the test substance, did not inhibit acetylcholine induced contractions of the isolated rat fundus, indicating the presence of other active principles including menthane diols. As being one of the first pharmacological studies on aqueous distillates, a possible pharmacological activity of cis-p-menth-4-ene-1,2-diol and 3,7-dimethyl-1-octen-3,7-diol is proposed in this study.
Depletion of Ca2+ from intracellular stores of the rat portal vein stimulates a tonic contraction.	The possibility that Ca2+ store depletion can stimulate contraction of the rat portal vein was investigated in functional experiments. Ca2+ stores were depleted with phenylephrine or cyclopiazonic acid in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ and then washed out for 30 min. Upon re-addition of extracellular Ca2+, a tonic contraction was produced, showing the stimulus for contraction was Ca2+ store depletion. The contractions were abolished by niflumic acid and nifedipine however, indicating they were dependent on depolarization resulting from opening of Ca2+-activated Cl- channels and Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated channels. Cumulative additions of phenylephrine below 3x10(-6) M did not produce tonic contractions but did in high K+ Krebs solution, where levcromakalim had no effect. This showed the tonic contractions were initially prevented by K+ channel opening. Increased Ca2+ entry through voltage-gated channels may therefore stimulate Ca2+-activated Cl- channels. Ca2+ store depletion could stimulate this by opening store-operated non-selective cation channels, resulting in depolarization.
Acute effects of hydrocortisone on plasma nitrate/nitrite activity and forearm vasodilator responsiveness in normal human subjects.	1. The aim of the present study was to examine the acute effects of cortisol infusion on plasma nitrate/nitrite (NO) activity and forearm vascular responsiveness to acetylcholine. 2. We performed two randomized, placebo-controlled, cross-over studies. Study A examined the effects of intravenous hydrocortisone (200 mg over a 3 h period) on blood pressure (BP) and plasma NO activity in six healthy male volunteers. Study B examined the effects of intra-arterial hydrocortisone on cholinergic vasodilator responsiveness in six healthy male volunteers. Vasodilator responsiveness was measured by bilateral strain gauge plethysmography. 3. In study A, there was no significant change in BP during the hydrocortisone infusion. Comparing values obtained following 180 min infusion of hydrocortisone and control, there were significant increases in plasma cortisol (3441 +/- 342 vs 209 +/- 29 nmol/L, respectively; P < 0.001) and glucose (5.7 +/- 0.2 vs 4.6 +/- 0.2 mmol/L, respectively; P < 0.05) and a reduction in plasma renin concentration (PRC) (8.1 +/- 1.2 vs 11.0 +/- 1.8 pg/mL, respectively; P < 0.05) following hydrocortisone infusion. However, there were no significant changes in either plasma NO or in the endogenous NO synthase inhibitors asymmetrical and symmetrical dimethylarginine. 4. In study B, there was no significant change in BP or in cholinergic vasodilator responsiveness during the hydrocortisone infusion. 5. Short-term cortisol infusions do not alter biochemical or physiological markers of NO activity. If cortisol-induced hypertension is mediated by suppression of NO activity in humans, it seems likely that these changes take more than 3 h to become detectable.
Effect of dietary docosahexaenoic acid on the endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation in diabetic rats.	1. The aim of the present study was to investigate the responses to acetylcholine (ACh; 3 nmol/L-30 micromol/L) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP; 3 nmol/L-30 micromol/L) of precontracted aortic rings from diabetic rats supplemented with docosahexaenoic acid (DHA). 2. Diabetes was induced by streptozotocin (STZ; 55 mg/kg). Diabetic and sham rats were fed, over a period of 8 weeks, either control diet or a DHA-supplemented diet. Aortic endothelial fatty acid composition was analysed by gas chromatography. The involvement of endothelial-derived nitric oxide (NO) and cyclo-oxygenase (COX) metabolites in response to ACh was assessed using the NO synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (100 micromol/L) and the COX inhibitor indomethacin (1 micromol/L), respectively. 3. The DHA-supplemented diet induced a small increase in n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA; P < 0.001) owing to the incorporation of DHA in the endothelial cells of sham animals (1.6 +/- 0.2% in the DHA group compared with traces in the control group; P < 0.001) and diabetic animals (1.3 +/- 0.2% in the DHA group compared with traces in control group; P < 0.001), without a decrease in n-6 PUFA, despite a small decrease in arachidonic acid content (P < 0.05). Diabetes did not modify the incorporation of DHA in endothelial cells, but did significantly increase the arachidonic acid content (0.6 +/- 0.0 vs 0.4 +/- 0.1% in control group in the STZ and sham groups, respectively; P < 0.001). Acetylcholine-induced relaxation was significantly reduced in STZ groups compared with the sham groups (P < 0.001) and the DHA-supplemented diet did not modify these effects. In contrast, neither the DHA-supplemented diet nor diabetes affected the aortic relaxation induced by SNP. N(G)-Nitro-L-arginine methyl ester strongly inhibited the relaxant effects of ACh in the sham groups (P < 0.001) and abolished ACh-induced relaxation in the STZ groups (P < 0.001). The diet did not modify these effects. In the presence of indomethacin, the relaxation induced by ACh was decreased in the sham groups (P < 0.01), but not in the STZ groups. The DHA-supplemented diet did not have any effect on these responses. 4. In conclusion, these results suggest that, in the present study, the endothelial dysfunction occurring in the rat model of STZ-induced diabetes is associated with modifications of both the synthesis of COX derivatives and NO metabolism and is not affected by dietary supplementation with DHA.
Effects of chronic anabolic steroid treatment on tonic and reflex cardiovascular control in male rats.	The aim of this study was to analyze the cardiovascular effects of chronic stanozolol administration in male rats. The rats were randomly assigned to one of three groups: (1) control (n=12), (2) chronic treatment with low dose of stanozolol (LD, n=18, 5 mg/kgweek) and; (3) treatment with high dose of stanozolol (HD, n=28, 20 mg/kgweek). Mean arterial pressure (MAP) was higher in both HD (128+/-2.2 mmHg) and LD (126+/-2.5 mmHg) than control (116+/-2 mmHg). The LD group showed an increase in cardiac output (control 121+/-2.5, LD 154+/-5.9 ml/min), whereas in the HD group total peripheral resistance increased (control 1.03+/-0.07, HD 1.26+/-0.07 mmHg/ml/min). Acute sympathetic blockade caused a similar decrease in MAP in all groups. In conscious rats, the baroreflex index for bradycardia (control -3.7+/-0.4, LD -2.0+/-0.1 beat/mmHg) and tachycardia (control -3.6+/-0.3, LD -4.7+/-0.2 beat/mmHg) responses changed only in the LD group. Cardiac hypertrophy was observed in both treated groups (P<0.05). In conclusion, hypertension with differential hemodynamic changes and alterations in the reflex control in heart rate is seen at different stanozolol doses, which may be important variables in the cardiovascular effects of anabolic steroids.
Coronary vasodilatory action of elgodipine in coronary artery disease.	The effects of intravenous elgodipine, a new second-generation dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, on hemodynamics and coronary artery diameter were investigated in 15 patients undergoing cardiac catheterization for suspected coronary artery disease. Despite a significant decrease in systemic blood pressure, elgodipine infused at a rate of 1.5 micrograms/kg/min over a period of 10 minutes did not affect heart rate and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure. The contractile responses during isovolumic contraction showed a slight but significant increase in maximum velocity (56 +/- 10 to 60 +/- 10 seconds-1; p less than 0.005), whereas the time constant of early relaxation was shortened from 49 +/- 11 to 44 +/- 9 ms (p less than 0.05). Coronary sinus and great cardiac vein flow increased significantly by 15 and 26%, respectively. As mean aortic pressure decreased, a significant decrease in coronary sinus (-27%) and great cardiac vein (-28%) resistance was observed, while the calculated myocardial oxygen consumption remained unchanged. In all, 69 coronary segments (including 13 stenotic segments) were analyzed quantitatively using computer-assisted quantitative coronary angiography. A significant increase in mean coronary artery diameter (2.27 +/- 0.53 to 2.48 +/- 0.53 mm; p less than 0.000001), as well as in obstruction diameter, (1.08 +/- 0.29 to 1.36 +/- 0.32 mm; p less than 0.02), was observed. The results demonstrate that elgodipine, in the route and dose described, induces significant vasodilatation of both coronary resistance and epicardial conductance vessels, without adverse effects on heart rate, myocardial oxygen demand and contractile indexes.
Comparative effects of glyceryl trinitrate and amyl nitrite on pulse wave reflection and augmentation index.	The influence of vasodilators on augmentation index (AIx) offers a simple, rapid and noninvasive method of evaluating vascular function. Glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) is widely used as an endothelium-independent vasodilator, although other nitrates that are shorter acting may have advantages in clinical studies. The aim of this study was to compare the effects of two short-acting nitrates, GTN and amyl nitrite, which have differing pharmacodynamic profiles.
Short-term oral folic acid supplementation enhances endothelial function in patients with type 2 diabetes.	Endothelial dysfunction and arterial stiffening are commonly observed in type 2 diabetes. These abnormalities might be secondary to increased plasma concentrations of homocysteine. We sought to determine whether oral folic acid supplementation, by lowering homocysteine levels, enhanced endothelial function and reduced arterial stiffness in type 2 diabetes.
Sympathomimetics, inotropics, and vasodilators.	Management of the critically ill patient often necessitates the use of multiple inotropic and vasoactive medications. This article offers a concise, clinical reference to guide the practicing clinician in the use of these agents. The focus is on parenteral agents used for acute rather than chronic management. Physiologic concepts basic to understanding the use of these agents are reviewed briefly. Sympathomimetic agents are discussed with inotropes since many of them have cardiotonic properties. Vasodilator therapy is addressed only as it is used in combination therapy. Nursing implications and treatment regimes are included.
The protective effect of puerarin against myocardial reperfusion injury. Study on cardiac function.	In order to find out if puerarin could protect the hearts from myocardial reperfusion injury after cardiac arrest, twelve dogs divided into two equal groups were placed on moderately hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass and their hearts were subjected to 140 min of cold cardioplegic arrest and 60 min of reperfusion. In the control group, the hearts were perfused with a crystalloid cardioplegic solution (CPS) through the aortic root every 20 min during arrest. In the treated group, the hearts received CPS containing puerarin (2 mg/kg). Cardiac hemodynamic variables were monitored throughout the experiments. Left ventricular function curves were formed before ischemia and after 60 min of reperfusion. The results showed that the recovery of left ventricular function in the treated group was significantly better than that in the controls (81 +/- 11% versus 39 +/- 7%, P less than 0.01). Compared with preischemic values, the increase of coronary blood flow (CBF) at cardiac arrest in the puerarin-treated group was higher than that in the control group (214 +/- 11 versus 177 +/- 4 ml/min, P less than 0.01). The data indicate that puerarin has protective effects on the cardiac function after prolonged arrest and reperfusion.
Anisodamine inhibits non-selectively muscarinic receptors in isolated canine veins.	Organ chamber experiments were designed to determine the effects of anisodamine, an alkaloid structurally related to atropine, on prejunctional M2- and postjunctional M2-muscarinic receptors in isolated canine saphenous veins. The results showed that both acetylcholine-induced contraction and dilatation were inhibited in a competitive manner by anisodamine or atropine. The affinity of anisodamine for pre- and postjunctional muscarinic receptors was comparable (pKB = 7.78 and 7.86, respectively). However, compared with atropine, the affinity of anisodamine for prejunctional M2-receptors was about 1/8; while that for postjunctional M1-receptors was only 1/25 of that of atropine (pKB = 8.69 and 9.25, respectively for atropine). The data demonstrate that anisodamine is a non-selective muscarinic antagonist, a modulator rather than a vasodilator. The probable mechanisms involved are discussed.
The inhibitory effects of cromakalim and its active enantiomer BRL 38227 against various agonists in guinea pig and human airways: comparison with pinacidil and verapamil.	The effects of the potassium channel activators, cromakalim, BRL 38227 and pinacidil, and the calcium antagonist, verapamil, have been compared against various spasmogens on airway responses in vitro and in vivo in the guinea pig and also in human isolated bronchi. In guinea pig tracheal spirals, potassium channel activators generally had a greater inhibitory effect than verapamil against tone induced by a wide range of spasmogens (spontaneous, 5-hydroxytryptamine, leukotriene D4, prostaglandin E2). The potassium channel activators had very little effect against potassium chloride- and carbachol-induced tone in guinea pig tracheal spirals [e.g., cromakalim (20 microM) induced relaxations of 0.21 +/- 0.03 (relative to an isoprenaline maximum = 1.0, mean +/- S.E.M.) against carbachol, compared to 0.77 +/- 0.03 against histamine]. In vivo, the potassium channel activators prevented histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced bronchoconstrictions, but had little inhibitory effect against acetylcholine. In contrast, in human bronchi, cromakalim was capable of inducing powerful concentration-dependent relaxations against carbachol-induced tone [cromakalim (20 microM) induced relaxations of 0.77 +/- 0.09 (relative to isoprenaline = 1.0, mean +/- S.E.M.) against carbachol, compared to 0.95 +/- 0.04 against histamine]. In human bronchi, all the inhibitory agents were more potent and more effective, except that verapamil did not have an increased maximum response. We conclude that potassium channel activators should be effective at relaxing contractions induced by a wide range of spasmogens in man.
Inhibition of ATP-sensitive K+ channels in cardiac muscle by the sulphonylurea drug glibenclamide.	The effects of the sulphonylurea drug glibenclamide were tested upon ATP-sensitive K+ (KATP) channels activated by 20 microM SR 44866 in isolated ventricular myocytes from guinea pig hearts. Glibenclamide inhibited the openings of KATP channels in both cell-attached and excised inside-out membrane patches. Glibenclamide inhibited the whole-cell KATP current (I-KATP) with an EC50 of 6 nM and Hill Coefficient of 1.26. The kinetics of the onset of inhibition of I-KATP were complex and dose-dependent. The recovery of I-KATP from inhibition was largely dose-independent. The application of glibenclamide for short periods of time was followed by the continued development of inhibition. These results suggest that the cell was loaded with the drug before it interacted with the KATP channel. It is proposed that the sulphonylurea receptor site is to be found in the lipid phase of the membrane. In consequence critical factors involved in the sulphonylurea drug-induced inhibition of KATP channels will include the rates of drug absorption into and exit from the membrane lipid. That sulphonylureas will be concentrated in the membrane lipid suggests that the EC50 value for channel inhibition does not represent the true affinity of the drugs for their receptor.
Relaxant effects of BRL 38227 and pinacidil on the rat gastric fundus.	Concentration-effect curves for BRL 38227 (lemakalim) and pinacidil were obtained in longitudinal muscle strips of the rat gastric fundus contracted by prostaglandin F2 alpha. Both agents induced a concentration-dependent relaxation, with BRL 38227 (EC50 = 3 x 10(-6) M) being more potent than pinacidil (EC50 = 8 x 10(-6) M). Glibenclamide (10(-7), 10(-6) and 10(-5) M) antagonized the relaxant effect of BRL 38227 and pinacidil but neither antagonism was of the simple competitive type. Phentolamine (10(-7), 10(-6) and 10(-5) M) competitively antagonized the effect of pinacidil and non-competitively that of BRL 38227. Glibenclamide had no influence on the relaxant effect induced by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or by electrical field stimulation in the presence of atropine and guanethidine. The results suggest that glibenclamide-sensitive K+ channels are present in the rat gastric fundus and that they do not mediate the inhibitory response to non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic neurostimulation.
An adenosine agonist and prostaglandin E1 cause breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier by opening tight junctions between vascular endothelial cells.	Macular edema occurs in several disease processes, but little is known about the mechanisms by which it occurs in any disease process. Previously, the authors showed that intravitreous injection of adenosine agonists, prostaglandin E1 (PGE1), or epinephrine in rabbits, causes breakdown of the blood-retinal barrier (BRB) measured by vitreous fluorophotometry. N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA), a nonspecific adenosine agonist, and PGE1, cause much greater breakdown of the BRB than the other agents tested. In this study, rabbit eyes were examined ultrastructurally and electron immunocytochemically for extravascular albumin as an indicator of BRB failure after intravitreous injection of these agents or vehicle alone to investigate potential mechanisms involved in BRB compromise. Six hours after injection, there were significantly more open tight junctions between retinal vascular endothelial cells in NECA-, PGE1-, and adenosine-injected eyes than in vehicle-injected eyes. Immunocytochemical staining for serum albumin showed that many of the junctions that appeared open were functionally open. Forty-eight hours after injection of PGE1 (10(-4) mol/l), the percentage of open vascular endothelial cell tight junctions had returned to that of the control specimens, but the opening of tight junctions by NECA (10(-3) mol/l) did not appear to be reversed after 48 hr. Pinocytotic vesicular transport was prominent in all eyes, and no difference was found between vehicle- and drug-injected eyes. These data suggest that NECA and PGE1 cause breakdown of the BRB, at least in part, by opening tight junctions between retinal vascular endothelial cells.
Examinations of the relative fluidity in cerebrovascular disease patients.	Parallel with the increasing incidence of cerebrovascular diseases, and the limitations of possible surgical methods, the importance of drug therapy has significantly increased. Due to our knowledge of haemorheology the effectiveness of therapies may be measured by means of useful circulatory markers. In course of our research activities of one and a half decades the changes in blood viscosity were measured during vinpocetine therapy, and were compared to the changes of haematocrit and mean corpuscular volume (MCV) values. The effect of vinpocetine and secale alkaloids or vinpocetine and pentoxifylline were compared by sequential analysis in other cases. The results of these examinations proved that vinpocetine is effective in both short and long-term therapy.
Stereoselective disposition and tissue distribution of carvedilol enantiomers in rats.	After intravenous bolus injection of rac-carvedilol at 2 mg/kg to the rat, the (+)-(R)- and (-)-(S)-enantiomer levels in the blood and tissues (liver, kidney, heart, muscle, spleen, and aorta) were measured by stereospecific HPLC assay. As compared with the (+)-(R), the (-)-(S) had a larger Vdss (3.32 vs. 2.21 liter/kg), MRT (33.4 vs. 25.6 min), and CLtot (96.1 vs. 83.8 ml/min/kg). AUC comparison after iv and po administration showed systemic bioavailability of the (-)-(S) to be about half that of its antipode, explained by the fact that the free fraction of the (-)-(S) in blood was 1.65-fold greater than that of the (+)-(R). Tissue-to-blood partition coefficient values for the (-)-(S) were 1.6- to 2.1-fold greater than those for the (+)-(R) in all tissues, showing that the (-)-(S) accumulates more extensively in the tissues. These results were consistent with the greater Vdss for the (-)-(S) estimated from systemic blood data. The stereoselective tissue distribution of carvedilol enantiomers results from an enantiomeric difference in plasma protein binding rather than in tissue binding.
Endothelial mechanisms underlying responses to acetylcholine in the horse deep dorsal penile vein.	This study evaluates the mechanisms underlying endothelium-dependent responses to acetylcholine in horse deep dorsal penile veins. Acetylcholine-induced relaxation was abolished by endothelium removal, the soluble guanylyl cyclase-inhibitor, and the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors. Acetylcholine-induced relaxation was inhibited by high K+ concentrations and blockade of large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated potassium (BK(Ca)) channels, and voltage-dependent potassium (K(v)) channels. Relaxations were unaffected by a small-conductance K(Ca) (SK(Ca)) channel blocker, or an ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channel blocker. Relaxation in response to a NO donor was unaffected by K(Ca) channel blockers, but inhibited by high K+ concentrations and a K(v) channel blocker. In the presence of a NO synthase inhibitor, acetylcholine-induced contractions were inhibited by a cyclooxygenase blocker and abolished by endothelial removal. The contractile response was competitively inhibited by muscarinic receptor antagonists, high affinity M1 and M3 antagonists, while the M2 antagonist had no effect. The pharmacological profile suggests that acetylcholine contraction is mediated by muscarinic M1 receptors. Our findings indicate that acetylcholine-induced relaxation in the horse deep dorsal penile vein is essentially mediated by NO, acting via the cGMP-dependent pathway and opening of K+ channels. The contraction elicited by acetylcholine is prostanoid-mediated and induced by endothelial muscarinic M1 receptor activation.
Selective COX-2 inhibition with different doses of rofecoxib does not impair endothelial function in patients with coronary artery disease.	In this study, we investigated the effects of both 25 and 50 mg daily doses of rofecoxib on the endothelial functions of patients with coronary artery disease (CAD). For this purpose, 34 patients with documented severe CAD and who were under aspirin treatment (300 mg/day) were randomized to receive 4 weeks of treatment with a placebo (n = 10, group I), rofecoxib 25 mg/day (n = 12, group II), and rofecoxib 50 mg/day (n = 12, group III). Brachial artery vasodilator responses were measured in order to evaluate endothelial function. The percentage of change in endothelial-dependent vasodilation in groups I, II, and III were similar at the baseline level and showed no significant change after treatment (6.2+/-3.9% vs. 5.9+/-3.1% and 5.8+/-3.3% vs. 5.6+/-3.8% and 6.1+/-4.5% vs. 5.8+/-4.1%, respectively; P > 0.05). Compared with the baseline, endothelium-independent vasodilatation, as assessed by nitroglycerine (NTG), remained unchanged after the treatment period (11.2+/-6.9% vs. 10.3+/-7.1% and 11.2+/-6.3% vs. 9.9+/-5.1% and 9.5+/-4.9% and 8.8+/-4.6%, respectively; P> 0.05). Treatment with both doses also showed no significant effects on high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) levels and resting arterial diameters (P > 0.05). In conclusion, 4 weeks of treatment with standard and high doses of rofecoxib showed no significant effects on either endothelial-dependent or independent vasodilator response or plasma hs-CRP levels in patients with severe CAD taking concomitant aspirin.
Cerebrovascular reactivity to adenosine analogues in 0.6-0.7 gestation and near-term fetal sheep.	During acute hypoxia, fetal sheep less than 0.7 gestation increase cerebral blood flow (CBF) relatively less than fetal sheep near term. We hypothesized that cerebrovascular reactivity to a hypoxic vasodilator metabolite such as adenosine might be diminished in immature fetuses. This study examined cerebral vasoreactivity to adenosine analogues in nine sheep fetuses less than 0.7 gestation (90-103 days) and nine near term (129-143 days). Fetuses were equipped in utero with a closed cranial window, and pial arterioles were studied by intravital microscopy. 5'-(N-ethylcarboxamido)-adenosine (NECA; 10(-9)-10(-5) M) and N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA; 10(-9)-10(-4) M) each caused a dose-dependent increase in arteriolar diameter that was attenuated in the presence of the adenosine receptor antagonist 8-phenyltheophylline (8-PT; 5 x 10(-6) M). Dose-response curves to the agonists were similar for both age groups. NECA was a more potent vasodilator than CPA, in keeping with their affinity for the A2 receptor. Suffusion of 8-PT alone at less than 10(-5) M had no effect on arteriolar diameter. We conclude that adenosine is able to dilate fetal cerebral arterioles as young as 0.6 gestation by acting at an A2 receptor, although resting tone is not influenced by adenosine. The immature fetal sheep CBF response to hypoxia is not attributable to undeveloped vasoreactivity to adenosine.
L-NMMA in brain microcirculation of mice is inhibited by blockade of cyclooxygenase and by superoxide dismutase.	As previously reported, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) constricted pial arterioles, inhibited dilation of pial arterioles by acetylcholine (ACh) or L-arginine (L-Arg), and enhanced platelet adhesion/aggregation at sites of endothelial damage. However, all of these effects were inhibited by local application of 20 micrograms/ml indomethacin (Indo). When 100 micrograms/ml acetylsalicylic acid were used instead of Indo, the acid also blocked the effects of L-NMMA. Superoxide dismutase (SOD; 50 U/ml) blocked the constriction produced by L-NMMA and also blocked the constriction produced by N omega-nitro-L-arginine (NNA). SOD also prevented L-NMMA from blocking dilation by ACh. SOD itself had no effect on diameter or on the response to ACh, norepinephrine, or BaCl2. The effects of L-NMMA and of Indo were also selective. Thus L-NMMA did not inhibit dilation by prostacyclin or bradykinin, and Indo did not inhibit dilation by prostacyclin. Indo did not interfere with the ability of arginase to enhance platelet adhesion/aggregation or with the ability of ACh or L-Arg to inhibit adhesion/aggregation. We conclude that in mouse cerebral microcirculation the ability of L-NMMA and NNA to constrict arterioles, the ability of L-NMMA to inhibit dilation by ACh or L-Arg and the ability of L-NMMA to enhance platelet adhesion/aggregation are all related to interference with phenomena dependent on "classical" endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRFACh). However, in this preparation the action of L-NMMA or NNA may not be due to competitive inhibition of the enzyme producing EDRFACh from L-Arg. Rather, L-NMMA and NNA appear to activate cyclooxygenase with resultant production of superoxide, which inactivates EDRFACh.
Inhibition of endothelium-derived relaxing factor-dependent circulatory control in intact rats.	The effects of the endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) inhibitors NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) and methylene blue (MB) on resting hemodynamics and responses to vasodilators were studied in the intact rat anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium. L-NMMA infusions (100 mg/kg) significantly increased mean blood pressure by 48%; this effect was rapidly reversed by L-arginine (300 mg/kg). MB (50 mg/kg) decreased mean blood pressure by 24%. Both MB and L-NMMA significantly attenuated the vasodepressor responses to acetylcholine, ATP, and adenosine. By use of radiolabeled microspheres, it was determined that the blood pressure increase after L-NMMA was due to a marked increase in systemic vascular resistance (SVR; from 1.3 +/- 0.1 to 3.1 +/- 0.3 mmHg.ml-1.min-1) and decreased cardiac output. L-NMMA increased vascular resistance in brain, cerebellum, skin, skeletal muscle, ear, white and brown fat, kidney, spleen, hepatic artery, and gastrointestinal tract. Flow decreased in the skin, kidneys, ear, white and brown fat, gastrointestinal tract, portal venous circulation, and liver in response to L-NMMA. In contrast, MB decreased heart rate, blood pressure, and SVR significantly. MB increased blood flow and decreased vascular resistance in several organs, including the brain, and skeletal muscle. These results indicate that both MB and L-NMMA can inhibit agonist-induced EDRF-mediated vasodepressor responses. However, inhibition of agonist-induced responses did not predict the general and regional hemodynamic responses to L-NMMA or MB infusion.
Direct demonstration by transthoracic Doppler echocardiography of adenosine-induced coronary steal in the collateral-dependent vessel.	Coronary flow velocity reserve was measured to assess the frequency of coronary steal in the collateral-dependent coronary arteries using transthoracic Doppler echocardiography. Coronary steal occurred in half the vessels studied. There was no significant difference between coronary flow velocity reserve in poorly and well-developed collaterals.
Pulmonary arterial hypertension in intensive care unit and operating room]	To review the perioperative anaesthetic management of pulmonary arterial hypertension.
Dexamethasone prevents impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxation in arteries cultured with fetal bovine serum.	In the present study, we assessed the effects of dexamethasone on fetal bovine serum-induced dysfunction of mesenteric endothelial cells using an organ culture procedure. In rabbit mesenteric arteries cultured in the presence of 10% fetal bovine serum for 7 days, the endothelium-dependent, nitric oxide (NO)-mediated relaxations caused by substance P and ionomycin were decreased as compared to those in non-treated arteries. Dexamethasone (3 microM) inhibited the proliferative stimuli-induced endothelial dysfunction without affecting the contractility or NO susceptibility of smooth muscle cells. Cross-sectioned hematoxylin-eosin staining and whole-mount CD31 staining indicated that chronic proliferative stimulation induced detachment of endothelial cells from the tunica intima in some regions, and also caused thickening of the arterial wall and shortening of the internal diameter. Endothelial NO synthesis (eNOS) mRNA expression was also decreased by the treatment with fetal bovine serum. The dexamethasone treatment did not inhibit the smooth muscle hypertrophy, but it inhibited the peeling of endothelial cells and recovered the eNOS mRNA expression. These results suggest that DEX ameliorate the impairments of arterial relaxation induced by proliferative stimuli and that these beneficial effects may be mediated by maintaining the adhesion of endothelial cells to the vascular wall and/or by recovering eNOS mRNA expression.
The contribution of nitric oxide and vasodilatory prostanoids to bradykinin-mediated vasodilation in Type 1 diabetes.	To investigate the effect of bradykinin on endothelial tone in normoalbuminuric Type 1 diabetic patients and specifically whether any changes are mediated through nitric oxide or prostaglandins.
A selective endothelin ET(A) receptor antagonist, SB 234551, improves cerebral perfusion following permanent focal cerebral ischemia in rats.	In recent experimental studies, a selective antagonist of endothelin ET(A) receptors, SB 234551, improved neurological and histological outcome in both head trauma and transient focal cerebral ischemia. The present study was conducted to ascertain the degree to which hemodynamic alterations are responsible for this therapeutic effect in a model of permanent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAo) in rats. Anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to permanent MCAo by insertion of an intraluminal nylon suture coated with poly-L-lysine. The agent (SB 234551, 30 microg/kg/min = 1.8 mg/kg/h) or vehicle (PBS; 0.6 ml/h) was administered by i.v. infusion beginning 15 min after onset of MCAo and lasting for 23.75 h. Autoradiographic measurement of local cerebral blood flow (lCBF) was performed at 24 h. Physiological data were similar among groups. SB 234551 augmented perfusion by 1.7- to 1.8-fold in both the ischemic hemisphere and in the contralateral (non-ischemic) hemisphere when compared to vehicle-treated ischemic animals. In the ischemic hemisphere, the brain regions significantly benefited were those lying outside the zone of most dense ischemia (i.e., paramedian cortex and thalamus), while in the non-ischemic hemisphere all regions measured showed significant lCBF augmentation. This study demonstrates that SB 234551 therapy results in significant improvement of local cerebral perfusion in the ischemic as well as in the non-ischemic hemispheres after permanent MCAo.
Acidosis-induced relaxation of human internal mammary artery is due to activation of ATP-sensitive potassium channels.	Metabolic acidosis is associated with various clinical situations including diabetes mellitus and renal diseases. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of acidosis on the resting as well as precontracted human left internal mammary artery. The vessels were obtained from the patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting surgery at The Aga Khan University Hospital, Karachi. Left internal mammary artery was cut into rings and isometric tension recording experiments were performed. Decrease in pH of the bathing solution from 7.4 to 6.8 had no effect on the resting tension of left internal mammary artery, whereas, acidic pH markedly relaxed the contractions to 24.8 mM KCl and 300 nM phenylephrine. Interestingly, when the KCl- or phenylephrine-contracted rings were treated with 3 microM glibenclamide; an inhibitor of ATP-sensitive potassium (K(ATP)) channels, the relaxant effect of acidosis was abolished. Similarly, acidosis failed to cause relaxation of 100 nM endothelin-1-induced contraction in Ca2+-free bathing solution or in the presence of a voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel inhibitor, verapamil (10 microM), whereas, endothelin-1-induced contraction was attenuated by acidosis in Ca2+-containing normal solution. From all these data, it is concluded that under the acidic pH conditions, opening of K(ATP) channels occurs; resulting in the hyperpolarization, decrease in Ca2+ influx via voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels and subsequent relaxation of human left internal mammary artery.
alpha2-Adrenoceptor subsensitivity in mesenteric vascular bed of cholestatic rats: the role of nitric oxide and endogenous opioids.	Cholestasis is associated with vascular changes and in previous studies decreased response of visceral vessels of cholestatic animals to phenylephrine and acetylcholine has been shown. In the present study, the response of mesenteric vascular bed of cholestatic rats to clonidine (an alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist) was investigated and we also examined the role of endogenous opioids and nitric oxide (NO). Seven-day ligation of bile duct was used as the model to study cholestasis. Six groups of rats, each of which divided into two subgroups (bile duct-ligated and sham-operated), were examined. Three groups of animals were chronically treated with either normal saline, naltrexone (an opioid receptor antagonist, 20 mg/kg/day, s.c.) or aminoguanidine (a selective inducible nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, 150 mg/kg/day, s.c.) for 7 days. After 7 days the response of the mesenteric vascular bed to subsequent doses of clonidine was studied. In other two groups, 7 days after the operation, the response of the mesenteric vascular bed to clonidine in the presence of either yuhimbine, an alpha2-adrenoceptor antagonist, or N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), a non-selective nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, was studied. In the last group, vasodilation response to sodium nitroprusside (an endothelium-independent vasorelaxant) was evaluated. Clonidine caused vasodilation in a dose-dependent manner by acting on endothelial alpha2-adrenoceptors since its effect was antagonized by yohimbine, and this vasodilation was through the L-arginine pathway since there was no response in the presence of L-NAME in the perfusate. Compared to sham-operated rats, there was a significant right shift in the clonidine concentration curves of cholestatic animals. Maximum response in cholestatic rats was significantly lower comparing to the sham group (P<0.01) and the dose of clonidine that causes 50% of maximum response (ED50) was significantly higher in cholestatic rats (P<0.05). Vasodilation response to sodium nitroprusside was the same in cholestatic and sham-operated rats. Seven-day treatment with aminoguanidine recovered the effect of cholestasis. Seven-day treatment with naltrexone caused an increase in maximum response (P<0.01) and a decrease in ED50 (P<0.05) in cholestatic rats, while this treatment in sham-operated rats caused a decrease in the maximum response (P<0.01) and an increase in ED50 (P<0.05). This study showed that cholestasis is associated with decreased responsiveness of mesenteric vascular bed to clonidine and the cholestasis-associated NO overproduction and increased level of endogenous opioids may contribute to this process.
Site-dependent inhibition of neuronal c-jun in the brainstem elicited by imidazoline I1 receptor activation: role in rilmenidine-evoked hypotension.	Clonidine (a mixed alpha2-adrenoceptor and imidazoline I1 receptor agonist)-evoked hypotension was associated with dissimilar reductions in c-jun gene expression in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) and the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) in normotensive rats. In the present study, we investigated the relative contribution of the alpha2-adrenoceptor vs. the imidazoline I1 receptor to the reduction in c-jun gene expression in these two brainstem areas. In conscious spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs), equihypotensive doses of three centrally acting hypotensive drugs with different selectivity for the two receptors were administered intracisternally (4 microl) to limit their actions to the brain. As a control, a similar hypotensive response was elicited by i.v. hydralazine. Clonidine (0.5 microg), or alpha-methylnorepinephrine (alpha-MNE, 4 microg), a highly selective alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist, similarly reduced c-jun mRNA expression in the NTS and rostral ventrolateral medulla. In contrast, a similar hypotensive response (-37+/-3.5 mm Hg) caused by the selective imidazoline I1 receptor agonist rilmenidine (25 microg) was associated with reduction in c-jun mRNA expression in the rostral ventrolateral medulla, but not in the NTS. Further, intra-rostral ventrolateral medulla rilmenidine (40 nmol) reduced c-Jun protein expression in rostral ventrolateral medulla and blood pressure and both responses were antagonized by selective imidazoline I1 receptor (efaroxan, 4 nmol), but not alpha2-adrenoceptor (SK&F 86466, 10 nmol) blockade. These results suggest: (1) the c-jun containing neurons in the brainstem are involved in the centrally mediated hypotension elicited by centrally acting antihypertensive agents, and (2) the alpha2-adrenoceptor modulates c-jun gene expression in the NTS and rostral ventrolateral medulla implicated in centrally mediated hypotension, and (3) the imidazoline I1 receptor mediated inhibition of c-jun gene expression in the rostral ventrolateral medulla, but not in the NTS, contributes to the centrally mediated hypotension by the second generation drugs.
Mitogen-activated protein kinase contributes to elevated basal tone in aortic smooth muscle from hypertensive rats.	The role of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in increased basal tone -spontaneous resistance in vascular muscle strips- was clarified in aortic smooth muscle from deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats. The MAPK/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) kinase inhibitor, PD098059 (2'-amino-3'-methoxyflavone), significantly inhibited basal tone in a dose-dependent manner. The basal level of ERK1/2 activation was inhibited by PD098059 and was significantly greater in hypertensive rats than in sham-operated rats. In contrast, inhibition with PD098059 was not observed in sham-operated rats. GF109203X (2-[1-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-1H-indol-3-yl]-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)maleimide), an inhibitor of protein kinase C (PKC), decreased both basal tone and ERK1/2 activity in the hypertensive rats. In contrast, Y27632 ((R)-(+)-trans-N-(4-Pyridyl)-4-(1-aminoethyl)cyclohexanecarboxamide) and verapamil, inhibitors of Rho kinase and voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels, respectively, significantly inhibited basal tone but not ERK1/2 activity. Thus, basal vascular tone is elevated by the altered activation of MAPK in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats, and this is regulated by PKC, but not by Rho or intracellular Ca2+.
Requisite roles of A2A receptors, nitric oxide, and KATP channels in retinal arteriolar dilation in response to adenosine.	Adenosine is a potent vasodilator of retinal microvessels and is implicated to be a major regulator of retinal blood flow during metabolic stress. However, the receptor subtypes and the underlying signaling mechanism responsible for the dilation of retinal microvessels in response to adenosine remain unclear. In the present study, the roles of specific adenosine receptor subtypes, nitric oxide (NO), and adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive K(+) (K(ATP)) channels in adenosine-induced dilation of retinal arterioles in vitro were examined.
Carvedilol blockade of alpha1- and beta-adrenoceptor induced inotropic responses in rats with congestive heart failure.	Carvedilol is a combined alpha(1)- and beta-adrenoceptor antagonist. We investigated the ability of carvedilol to antagonize functional effects mediated through myocardial alpha(1)-adrenoceptors in failing vs. non-failing (sham-operated) control hearts and compared such antagonisms to those of myocardial beta-adrenoceptors. Congestive heart failure was induced in Wistar rats by coronary artery ligation. Papillary muscles experiments were performed. Carvedilol antagonized inotropic effects mediated through myocardial alpha(1)-adrenoceptors with similar potencies in failing (pK(i)=7.7 (95%, CI; 7.4-8.0)) and sham-operated hearts (pK(i)=7.9 (95%, CI; 7.6-8.1)). The potency for the alpha(1)-adrenoceptors was 10-30-fold lower than that for the beta-adrenoceptors. In failing hearts, the alpha(1)-adrenoceptor mediated response was similar in size to the attenuated beta-adrenoceptor mediated inotropic response. The beta-adrenoceptor mediated lusitropic effects were not, however, attenuated in failing compared to sham-operated hearts. A low degree of alpha(1)-adrenoceptor blockade in the myocardium may contribute to the beneficial effects of carvedilol in heart failure.
Effect of a nifedipine induced reduction in blood pressure on the association between ocular pulse amplitude and ocular fundus pulsation amplitude in systemic hypertension.	The ocular pressure/volume relation, which is described by the Friedenwald equation, forms the basis of intraocular pressure (IOP) measurement with Schiotz tonometry and measurement of pulsatile ocular blood flow (POBF) with pneumotonometry. Changes in intraocular volume during the cardiac cycle are caused by arterial inflow and venous outflow and are accompanied by changes in IOP. The relation between volume and pressure changes is dependent on the elastic properties of the eye coats as described by the ocular rigidity coefficient. Previous studies indicate that there is a vascular contribution to ocular rigidity and that the volume/pressure relationship may depend on the mean arterial pressure.
Endothelin-3 is a potent pulmonary vasodilator in the rat.	The properties of endothelin-3 (ET-3) were investigated in isolated pulmonary artery rings and isolated blood-perfused lungs of the rat. ET-3 elicited a concentration-dependent relaxation of pulmonary artery rings, and effect inhibited by the nitric oxide synthesis inhibitor L-NG-monomethyl-L-arginine. At 0.1 microM, the response to ET-3 was biphasic, resulting in a sustained contraction. In the isolated lung, ET-3 caused a dose-dependent increase in pulmonary arterial pressure. In lungs ventilated with 3% oxygen, 10 nM ET-3 completely reversed the resultant hypoxic vasoconstriction (HPV) by 100 +/- 8%, an effect unchanged by either indomethacin (1 microM) or glibenclamide (10 microM). L-NG-monomethyl-L-arginine attenuated both the ET-3 dilation in prostaglandin F2 alpha-constricted lungs and the dose-dependent vasodilation of HPV by acetylcholine. ET-3 (10 nM) showed the response time to peak pulmonary arterial pressure generation by hypoxia, the size of the response being unchanged. These results demonstrate that ET-3 has both vasodilator and constrictor actions in the rat lung and that, like acetylcholine, the former is mediated in part via the release of nitric oxide. ET-3 also has the ability to modulate HPV.
Adenosine reverses the stimulatory effect of angiotensin II on the renal Na+-ATPase activity through the A2 receptor.	In the present paper, we report the modulation of the Angiotensin II (Ang II)-stimulated Na+-ATPase activity of the proximal tubule basolateral membrane by adenosine (Ado). Preincubation of isolated basolateral membrane with 10(-8)M Ang II increases the Na+-ATPase activity from 7.5+/-0.3 (control) to 14.6+/-0.9 nmol Pi x mg(-1)x min(-1)nmol Pi x mg(-1) x min(-1) (p<0.05). Incubation of Ang II-stimulated enzyme with 10(-6)M Ado, in the presence of the A1 receptor antagonist DPCPX (10(-6)M), completely reverses the Ang II-induced effect bringing the Na+-ATPase activity to the basal level. The following evidences demonstrate involvement of the A2 receptor/Gs protein/adenylyl cyclase/PKA signaling pathway in the inhibitory effect induced by Ado on the Ang II-stimulated Na+-ATPase activity in the presence of the DPCPX: 1) the inhibitory effect of Ado is abolished by the A2 receptor selective antagonist DMPX (10(-8)M); 2) the effect induced by Ado is blocked by 10(-8)M GDPbetaS and mimicked by 10(-9)M cholera toxin and 10(-8)M GTPgammaS; 3) the stimulatory effect of Ang II is reduced by 10(-6)M forskolin, an activator of adenylyl cyclase, or 10(-6)M cAMP; 4) Ado stimulates PKA activity; 5) the inhibitory effect induced by this nucleoside is reversed by the PKA inhibitor peptide.
Acetylcholine and bradykinin enhance hypotension and affect the function of remodeled conduit arteries in SHR and SHR treated with nitric oxide donors.	Discrepancy was found between enhanced hypotension and attenuated relaxation of conduit arteries in response to acetylcholine (ACh) and bradykinin (BK) in nitric oxide (NO)-deficient hypertension. The question is whether a similar phenomenon occurs in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) with a different pathogenesis. Wistar rats, SHR, and SHR treated with NO donors [molsidomine (50 mg/kg) or pentaerythritol tetranitrate (100 mg/kg), twice a day, by gavage] were studied. After 6 weeks of treatment systolic blood pressure (BP) was increased significantly in experimental groups. Under anesthesia, the carotid artery was cannulated for BP recording and the jugular vein for drug administration. The iliac artery was used for in vitro studies and determination of geometry. Compared to control, SHR showed a significantly enhanced (P < 0.01) hypotensive response to ACh (1 and 10 microg, 87.9 +/- 6.9 and 108.1 +/- 5.1 vs 35.9 +/- 4.7 and 64.0 +/- 3.3 mmHg), and BK (100 microg, 106.7 +/- 8.3 vs 53.3 +/- 5.2 mmHg). SHR receiving NO donors yielded similar results. In contrast, maximum relaxation of the iliac artery in response to ACh was attenuated in SHR (12.1 +/- 3.6 vs 74.2 +/- 8.6% in controls, P < 0.01). Iliac artery inner diameter also increased (680 +/- 46 vs 828 +/- 28 microm in controls, P < 0.01). Wall thickness, wall cross-section area, wall thickness/inner diameter ratio increased significantly (P < 0.01). No differences were found in this respect among SHR and SHR treated with NO donors. These findings demonstrated enhanced hypotension and attenuated relaxation of the conduit artery in response to NO activators in SHR and in SHR treated with NO donors, a response similar to that found in NO-deficient hypertension.
Rapid and stable re-entry within the pulmonary vein as a mechanism initiating paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.	We investigated the hypothesis that re-entrant pulmonary vein (PV) tachycardias may serve as a mechanism for initiating and sustaining paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF).
Venodilation contributes to propofol-mediated hypotension in humans.	The present investigation explored the possibility that the commonly observed hypotension that occurs during induction of anesthesia with propofol might be related to its ability to produce venodilation. Thirty-six ASA I and II patients who received no premedication were studied. The first 20 patients were divided into two equal groups. Hemodynamic measurements consisted of heart rate, arterial blood pressure, and forearm venous compliance by occlusive plethysmography. Baseline measurements were made in awake patients while resting in a supine position. Repeat measurements were made during steady-state infusions of propofol (2.5 mg/kg bolus injection, followed by a continuous infusion at 200 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) or thiopental (4 mg/kg bolus injection, followed by continuous infusion at 200 micrograms.kg-1.min-1), 10 min after tracheal intubation while patients were artificially ventilated. Both anesthetics resulted in a significant (P less than 0.05) and similar tachycardia; however, propofol produced significant decreases in systolic (-30 +/- 9 mm Hg) and diastolic (-11 +/- 4 mm Hg) arterial blood pressure. Forearm venous compliance was significantly increased during propofol administration but unchanged in patients receiving thiopental. In four additional patients receiving smaller consecutive infusions of propofol (50 and 100 micrograms.kg-1.min-1), significant subtle increases in forearm compliance were also recorded. These increases were not observed in four patients who received placebo infusions. Thus, one mechanism promoting hypotension during propofol anesthesia in humans seems to be related to its direct effects on venous smooth muscle tone and presumably venous return.
Pharmacological approaches to the treatment of intermittent claudication.	Intermittent claudication is a common condition of the elderly, occurring in 3 to 20% of individuals over the age of 65 years. Although local disease is usually benign, life expectancy in patients with intermittent claudication is reduced by approximately 10 years due to associated cardiovascular mortality. Several classes of drugs have been used in intermittent claudication, but clinical studies evaluating their efficacy leave much to be desired. Pentoxifylline (oxpentifylline), a rheological agent, and naftidrofuryl, an enhancer of aerobic metabolism, are the 2 most widely investigated and utilised drugs. The combined results of 10 placebo-controlled studies with pentoxifylline and 4 with naftidrofuryl estimate increases in claudication distances of 51 and 42%, respectively. However, due to publication bias, these figures are probably overestimates of the true benefit from treatment with these drugs. It is likely that any benefit from pentoxifylline or naftidrofuryl is small and of little clinical importance. The suggestion that naftidrofuryl has greater efficacy in older patients remains unproven. Other classes of drugs including vasodilators, antiplatelet drugs, anticoagulants and prostaglandins have not been shown to be effective. Only 2 approaches to the management of intermittent claudication have been shown convincingly to be of benefit: stopping smoking and exercising regularly.
Responses to vasodilator drugs on pulmonary artery preparations from pulmonary hypertensive rats.	1. Relaxant responses to six vasodilator drugs, with different mechanisms of action, were examined on noradrenaline (0.1 microM)-contracted ring preparations of pulmonary artery and aorta taken from rats with pulmonary hypertension induced by monocrotaline or chronic hypoxia. 2. On pulmonary artery preparations from monocrotaline-treated rats, compared with controls, (a) the maximum relaxation to pinacidil and cromakalim was significantly increased, but their potency (negative log EC50) was unchanged, (b) the potencies of nitroprusside and sodium nitrite were significantly reduced (10 fold and 3 fold respectively), but there was no change in the maxima, (c) for nicorandil there was an increase in maximum relaxation and a decrease in potency (3 fold), and (d) for atriopeptin II there was no change in potency or maximum. 3. The increase in maximum relaxation for pinacidil and the decrease in potency for nitroprusside were also demonstrated in pulmonary artery preparations from rats with chronic hypoxic pulmonary hypertension. The other four drugs were not examined in preparations from hypoxic rats. 4. In both models of pulmonary hypertension, no change in maximum response or potency was seen on aortic preparations for any of the vasodilator drugs. 5. In control preparations, none of the drugs was more potent on pulmonary artery than on aorta (i.e. they were not pulmonary-selective). In preparations from pulmonary hypertensive rats, pinacidil was selective for pulmonary artery, in contrast to nitroprusside which was selective for aorta.6. It is concluded that the development of pulmonary hypertension in rats is accompanied by changes in the responsiveness of the pulmonary arteries to some vasodilator drugs; whether or not these changes occur depends on the mechanism of action of the vasodilator drug, but they are independent of the method of inducing pulmonary hypertension.7. It is postulated that the reduction in potency seen for nitroprusside, sodium nitrite and nicorandil may be due to desensitization of soluble guanylate cyclase in pulmonary vascular smooth muscle in pulmonary hypertension.
Mechanisms of coronary vasodilatation produced by ATP in guinea-pig isolated perfused heart.	1. Isolated hearts of guinea-pigs were perfused in vitro with a physiological salt solution via a retrograde aortic cannulation (Langendorff preparation) at constant perfusion pressure. Bolus intra-arterial injections of various vasodilator drugs were made and the coronary flow responses were measured with an electromagnetic flow probe placed in the arterial inflow circuit. Inhibitory drugs were infused intra-arterially. 2. Nitro-L-arginine (NLA; 500 microM), an NO synthesis inhibitor, decreased coronary baseline flow by 16 +/- 0.8%, converted acetylcholine-induced coronary vasodilatation to vasoconstriction and had no effect on coronary flow responses to adenosine or papaverine. Sodium nitroprusside-induced responses were enhanced during NLA infusion by 46 +/- 11%. 3. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) increased coronary flow but coronary flow responses to ATP were not altered by infusion of NLA. 4. ATP-induced coronary dilatation was not significantly attenuated by infusion of the adenosine receptor antagonist XAC, (xanthine amine congener; 2 microM), whereas XAC decreased coronary flow responses to adenosine by 75% +/- 5%. 5. ATP-induced coronary flow responses were reduced by only 31 +/- 4% during indomethacin infusion (2.8 microM) whereas indomethacin completely eliminated the initial vasoconstriction phase and greatly attenuated the peak flow and duration of the later vasodilatation phase seen in response to arachidonic acid (0.75 nmol). Indomethacin had no effect on vasodilatations produced by adenosine or prostaglandin I2. 6. These results indicate that ATP-induced coronary dilatation in the isolated, perfused heart of the guinea-pig is not dependent upon NO production or upon degradation of ATP to adenosine. The coronary dilator action of ATP may be partially dependent (approximately 30%) upon the production of vasodilator prostaglandins.
Pharmacology of bipyridine phosphodiesterase III inhibitors.	The bipyridine phosphodiesterase III inhibitors amrinone and milrinone form a new class of positive inotropic vasodilator agents that are beneficial in the treatment of acute and chronic heart failure. These agents inhibit the intracellular hydrolysis of cyclic AMP, thereby promoting cyclic AMP-catalysed phosphorylation of sarcolemmal calcium channels and activating the calcium pump. They also have vasodilator and lusitropic actions and are devoid of the central stimulant actions that narrow the therapeutic index of theophylline and other methylxanthines. Receptor down-regulation, which curtails the inotropic efficacy of beta-adrenoceptor agonists, does not compromise the efficacy of phosphodiesterase inhibitors. The effectiveness of these new agents is, however, dependent upon some degree of basal adenylate cyclase activity.
Enhanced vasodilatory responses to bradykinin in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Vasodilatory responses to bradykinin (BK) and acetylcholine (ACh) were compared in phenylephrine preconstricted perfused kidneys from 30-week-old male stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). Responses to ACh did not differ between kidneys from SHRSP and WHY. BK-induced dilatation was greater in kidneys from SHRSP relative to WHY and was not affected by indomethacin or captopril. These results indicate that renal vasodilatory responsiveness to bradykinin is enhanced in SHRSP with established hypertension.
The effect of the K+ agonist nicorandil on peripheral vascular resistance.	The vasoactive effect of nicorandil on coronary arteries is well known. Nicorandil exerts its vasodilatory effect through a dual mechanism of action: involving on the one hand cyclic guanosine monophosphate (c GMP) as a nitrovasodilatator, and on the other hand, acting as a potassium channel opener.
A study of mechanisms involved in vasodilatation induced by resveratrol in isolated porcine coronary artery.	The present study was designed to investigate the acute relaxing effect of phytoestrogen resveratrol on isolated porcine coronary arteries and to determine the mechanisms underlying its vasodilatation. Rings of porcine coronary arteries were suspended in organ baths containing Krebs-Henseleit solution, and then isometric tension was measured. Resveratrol concentration-dependently relaxed arterial rings precontracted with 30 mM KCl. The IC(50) value of resveratrol was 38.67+/-3.21 microM. Incubation with N(omega)-L-nitro-arginine (L-NNA), endothelium removal or the presence of a potent inhibitor of protein tyrosine phosphatase sodium orthovanadate partly decreased the relaxation induced by resveratrol. However, the relaxation induced by resveratrol was unaffected by the estrogen receptor antagonist tamoxifen, the inhibitor of prostanoid synthesis indomethacin, the antagonist of beta-adrenoceptors propranolol or the protein synthesis inhibitor, cycloheximide. In addition, resveratrol significantly decreased the contractile responses of 5-HT, KCl and CaCl(2), and shifted their cumulative concentration-response curves to the right. These results suggest that the mechanisms of vasorelaxation induced by resveratrol are heterogeneous, two mechanisms participating partially in the relaxation of porcine coronary artery were detected in the study, one being the nitric oxide released from the endothelium, the other causing inhibition of Ca(2+) influx, but estrogen receptors were not involved in resveratrol-induced relaxation.
The effects of nitroglycerine on the redox status of rat erythrocytes and reticulocytes.	The effects of nitroglycerine (NTG) are mediated by liberated nitric oxide (NO) after NTG enzymatic bio-transformation in cells. The aim of this study was to evaluate some products of NTG bio-transformation and their consequences on the redox status of rat erythrocytes and reticulocytes, considering the absence and presence of functional mitochondria in these cells, respectively. Rat erythrocyte and reticulocyte-rich red blood cell (RBC) suspensions were aerobically incubated (2 h, 37 degrees C) without (control) or in the presence of different concentrations of NTG (0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0 and 1.5 mM). In rat erythrocytes, NTG did not elevate the concentrations of any reactive nitrogen species (RNS). However, NTG robustly increased concentration of methemoglobin (MetHb), suggesting that NTG bio-transformation was primarily connected with hemoglobin (Hb). NTG-induced MetHb formation was followed by the induction of lipid peroxidation. In rat reticulocytes, NTG caused an increase in the levels of nitrite, peroxinitrite, hydrogen peroxide, MetHb and lipid peroxide levels, but it decreased the level of the superoxide anion radical. Millimolar concentrations of NTG caused oxidative damage of both erythrocytes and reticulocytes. These data indicate that two pathways of NTG bio-transformation exist in reticulocytes: one generating RNS and the other connected with Hb (as in erythrocytes). In conclusion, NTG bio-transformation is different in erythrocytes and reticulocytes due to the presence of mitochondria in the latter.
Effects of carvedilol on cardiac cytokines expression and remodeling in rat with acute myocardial infarction.	A number of observations suggest that cytokines may be important modulators in the ventricular remodeling process. It is unclear whether carvedilol modulates myocardial pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines expression. We hypothesized that carvedilol could improve ventricular remodeling partly through the modulation of cytokines. The goal of this study was to evaluate the effects of carvedilol on cardiac cytokines expression as well as on myocardial and extracellular matrix remodeling in rats with acute myocardial infarction.
Treatment of obese female and male SHHF/Mcc-fa(cp) rats with antihypertensive drugs, nifedipine and enalapril: effects on body weight, fat distribution, insulin resistance and systolic pressure.	Little is known about the effects of common antihypertensive drugs in obese, insulin-resistant females. Nine-month-old obese female SHHF/Mcc-fa(cp) rats that received either nifedipine, a calcium channel antagonist, or enalapril, an angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitor, for three months were compared with untreated SHHF/Mcc-fa(cp) rats (controls). After one month, nifedipine significantly decreased body weight in obese females compared to either enalapril or controls. After three months of treatment, total, abdominal, and subcutaneous fat masses were decreased in obese females given nifedipine compared to either enalapril or controls. Enalapril treatment was associated with a redistribution of fat mass from abdominal to subcutaneous depots. Nifedipine reduced plasma triglyceride and fasting glucose levels and improved insulin response to an oral glucose load in obese females, whereas enalapril did not appear to affect glycemic control. Systolic pressure was not significantly decreased until after two months of treatment with nifedipine or three months of treatment with enalapril in obese females and may have coincided with improvement in insulin-resistance. Similarly, plasma atrial natriuretic peptide concentrations were significantly lower in obese females given nifedipine. To determine how obese males responded to a calcium channel antagonist, six-month-old obese male SHHF/Mcc-fa(cp) rats were treated for three months with either nifedipine or placebo (controls). Nifedipine-treated obese males showed a mild but significant decrease in weight gain that was due to a decrease in fat deposition in both subcutaneous and abdominal depots and systolic blood pressure was significantly reduced after one month of treatment. Nifedipine did not affect other plasma biochemical parameters in obese males. In conclusion, nifedipine improved systolic pressure and glycemic control in obese female SHHF/Mcc-fa(cp) rats, effects that may be associated with a marked loss in body weight and fat mass and improved lipid metabolism. Nifedipine-treated obese males exhibited only a diminished weight gain that was not associated with changes in diabetic characteristics.
Increases in oxygen consumption without cerebral blood volume change during visual stimulation under hypotension condition.	The magnitude of the blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signal depends on cerebral blood flow (CBF), cerebral blood volume (CBV) and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO2). Thus, it is difficult to separate CMRO2 changes from CBF and CBV changes. To detect the BOLD signal changes induced only by CMRO2 responses without significant evoked CBF and CBV changes, BOLD and CBV functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) responses to visual stimulation were measured under normal and hypotension conditions in isoflurane-anesthetized cats at 4.7 T. When the mean arterial blood pressure (MABP) decreased from 89+/-10 to 50+/-1 mm Hg (mean+/-standard deviation, n=5) by infusion of vasodilator sodium nitroprusside, baseline CBV in the visual cortex increased by 28.4%+/-8.3%. The neural activity-evoked CBV increase in the visual cortex was 10.8%+/-3.9% at normal MABP, but was negligible at hypotension. Positive BOLD changes of +1.8%+/-0.5% (gradient echo time=25 ms) at normal MABP condition became prolonged negative changes of -1.2%+/-0.3% at hypotension. The negative BOLD response at hypotension starts approximately 1 sec earlier than positive BOLD response, but similar to CBV change at normal MABP condition. Our finding shows that the negative BOLD signals in an absence of CBV changes are indicative of an increase in CMRO2. The vasodilator-induced hypotension model simplifies the physiological source of the BOLD fMRI signals, providing an insight into spatial and temporal CMRO2 changes.
Mechanism of coronary vasodilation produced by bradykinin.	Bradykinin has been demonstrated to be an endothelium-dependent vasodilator in the cerebral circulation of the mouse, but the actions of bradykinin on regional tissue perfusion in the canine coronary circulation have not been studied.
New insights into the vascular mechanisms underlying the beneficial effect of swimming training on the endothelial vasodilator function in apolipoprotein E-deficient mice.	The antiatherogenic role of exercise is poorly understood. We examined the swimming exercise-induced vascular mechanisms which enhance the endothelial vasodilator function in apoE(-/-) mice. Male apoE(-/-) mice treated for 9 weeks with a lipid-rich diet were divided into two groups: the exercise group (apoE(-/-) X), which underwent a 9-week swimming protocol (50 min/day; 5days/week) and the sedentary group (apoE(-/-) S). C57BL/6 mice were used as the control group. Atherosclerotic lesions in the aortic roots were significantly reduced in apoE(-/-) X compared to apoE(-/-) S. Relaxation to acetylcholine was improved in apoE(-/-) X as compared to apoE(-/-) S and control mice with E(max) and pD(2) values significantly higher. pD(2) values in response to papaverine were higher in apoE(-/-) X than in the other groups. Relaxation in response to A23187 and DEA-NONOate were similar. These findings suggest that swimming training may increase the sensitivity of relaxation to acetylcholine, which in turn activates acetylcholine-mediated signaling pathways leading to increased NO bioactivity. Swimming may also prolong the signaling actions of NO by stimulating the sensitivity of vascular smooth muscle cells to cyclic nucleotides. These appear to be the key mechanisms underlying the improvement of the NO-cGMP pathway in exercised apoE(-/-) mice.
Elevated guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate mediates the depression of nitrovasodilator reactivity in endothelium-intact blood vessels.	The influence of endothelium-derived nitric oxide (EDNO) on relaxation induced by the nitrovasodilators, sodium nitroprusside and sodium nitrite was assessed in phenylephrine-stimulated hamster thoracic aortas, a preparation that displays significant basal release of EDNO. Removal of the endothelium or treatment with the NO synthase inhibitors, NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NAG, 10-30 microM) or NG-methyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA; 100 microM) increased the potency and, except for sodium nitroprusside in endothelium-denuded segments, also increased the efficacy of the nitrovasodilators. Removal of the endothelium had no effect on relaxations induced by isoproterenol, an indication that these effects were specific for the nitrovasodilators. Removal of the endothelium, treatment of endothelium-intact preparations with L-NAG or L-NMMA, or exposure of these vessels to the guanylate cyclase inhibitor, methylene blue (10 microM) increased reactivity of the aortas to the guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cGMP) analogue, 8-Br cGMP. Measurement of cGMP revealed that endothelium-intact segments had a 6.5 fold higher level of cGMP than endothelium-denuded preparations and that sodium nitroprusside increased cGMP in both preparations by similar amounts in a concentration-dependent fashion. Exposure of endothelium-denuded or L-NAG-treated segments to sodium nitroprusside, to mimic the effects of basally released EDNO, depressed sodium nitrite and 8-Br cGMP reactivity in a manner similar to endothelium-intact segments. These data indicate that EDNO increases cGMP levels in vascular smooth muscle and that the elevated cGMP levels depress nitrovasodilator and 8-Br cGMP reactivities.
Comparative effects of some nitric oxide donors on cyclic GMP levels in rat cerebellar slices.	In the central nervous system, glutamate receptor activation and other stimuli can lead to the cellular production of nitric oxide (NO), an activator of the cyclic GMP-synthesising enzyme, soluble guanylate cyclase. Four 'nitrovasodilators' which yield NO were tested for their ability to elevate cGMP levels in rat cerebellar slices. Nitroprusside (NP), SIN-1, S-nitroso-N-penicillamine (SNAP) and hydroxylamine all caused very large (up to 300-fold) increments. Their threshold concentrations were between 1 and 30 microM. SNAP was the most potent (EC50 approximately 50 microM) followed by hydroxylamine (200 microM) and SIN-1 (1 mM), the latter compound having the highest efficacy. No maximal response to NP was evident at concentrations up to 10 mM. Slices could be challenged a second time with NP (300 microM) with no evidence of a change in sensitivity. The NO-donors are likely to be valuable for studying the functions of NO in brain tissue; however, the concentrations of NP, SNAP and SIN-1 required to elevate cGMP in the slices are orders of magnitude higher than those needed to stimulate guanylate cyclase activity in broken cell preparations, suggesting that rapid inactivation of NO takes place in the intact tissue.
Ursolic acid mediates the vasorelaxant activity of Lepechinia caulescens via NO release in isolated rat thoracic aorta.	We have determined that the methanolic extract of L. caulescens (MELc) produced a significant vasodilator effect in a concentration-dependent and endothelium-dependent manner. This relaxation was blocked by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methylester (L-NAME), indicating that MELc vasodilator properties are endothelium mediated due to liberation of nitric oxide (NO). In this paper we aimed to corroborate its mode of action. MELc effects on noradrenaline (NA)-induced contraction in isolated rat aortic thoracic rings with endothelium (+E), in the presence of atropine (0.1 microM) and 1-H-[1,2,4]-oxadiazolo-[4,3a]-quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ, 1 microM) were conducted. MELc relaxation curve was significantly shifted to the right in the presence of ODQ and atropine, thus confirming that its mode of action is related with activation of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) and the consequent increment in NO formation. Bio-guided study of MELc allowed the isolation of ursolic acid (UA, 50 mg) and ursolic-oleanolic acids mixture [UA/OA (7:3), 450 mg]. The relaxant effect of UA (0.038-110 microM) was evaluated in functional experiments. UA induced a significant relaxation in a concentration- and endothelium-dependent manner (IC(50)=44.15 microM) and did not produce a vasorelaxant effect on contraction evoked by KCl (80 mM). In addition, NA-induced contraction was significantly displaced to the right by UA (30 microM). In order to determine its mode of action, UA-induced relaxant effect was evaluated in the presence of atropine (0.1 microM), indomethacin (10 microM), L-NAME (100 microM) and ODQ (1 microM). Relaxation was blocked by L-NAME and ODQ. On the other hand, UA (3 microM) provoked a significant displacement to the left in the relaxation curve induced by sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 0.32 nM to 0.1 microM), but it was not significant in the presence of Carbamoyl choline (carbachol, 1 nM to 10 microM). These results indicate that UA-mediated relaxation is endothelium dependent, probably due to NO release, and the consequent activation of vascular smooth muscle soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC), a signal transduction enzyme that forms the second messenger cGMP.
Correction of endothelial dysfunction in diabetic female rats by tetrahydrobiopterin and chronic insulin.	Diabetes-induced vascular dysfunction has mainly been studied in males. However, the mechanisms involved may not correspond to those in females. Here we analyzed the effects of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)) and chronic insulin on the physiology of mesenteric arterioles of alloxan-diabetic female rats. The parameters studied were the mesenteric arteriolar reactivity (intravital microscopy), nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity (conversion of L-arginine to L-citrulline), eNOS gene expression (RT-PCR), NO production (diaminofluorescein), reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation (intravital fluorescence microscopy) and Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity (spectrophotometry) and gene expression (RT-PCR). The reduced endothelium-dependent vasodilation of diabetic females was corrected by both BH(4) and insulin. NOS activity was decreased by diabetes, but insulin did not correct it. However, NOS expression was not modified by either diabetes or insulin. Arterioles of diabetic rats exhibited lower NO production, which was fully corrected by BH(4) and only partially by insulin. ROS generation was increased in diabetic rats, and both BH(4) and insulin normalized it. Diabetes did not change SOD activity and gene expression. However, insulin increased SOD activity but not its expression. Our data suggest that, similarly to males, endothelial dysfunction in female diabetic rats involves an altered ROS/NO imbalance. In contrast to males, however, insulin does not regulate NOS in the microcirculation of diabetic females.
Altered insulin-mediated and insulin-like growth factor-1-mediated vasorelaxation in aortas of obese Zucker rats.	Insulin and insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) have vasorelaxant effects in vivo, which is dependent on nitric oxide (NO) production. The aim of this study was to investigate the vasorelaxant responses mediated by insulin and/or IGF-1 in aortas of obese Zucker rats.
Clinical pharmacology of vasodilatory beta-blocking drugs.	The clinical pharmacology of beta-adrenoceptor blockers is summarized. They have a variety of pharmacological actions on the beta-adrenoceptors. For example, propranolol is a nonselective beta-blocker with antagonist effects on both beta 1 and beta 2 receptors, atenolol is a selective beta 1-antagonist, and celiprolol is a selective beta 1-antagonist, partial beta 2-agonist. beta 1-Receptor blockade tends to reduce heart rate, cardiac output, and arterial pressure while increasing peripheral vascular resistance, whereas beta 2-receptor blockade tends to be disadvantageous in causing bronchoconstriction and peripheral vasoconstriction. Selective beta 1-antagonist, beta 2-agonist activity would, therefore, appear to be particularly beneficial in offering the advantages of beta 1 blockade plus peripheral vasodilation. The beta 1- and beta 2-receptor actions of drugs are not always clearly identifiable, as in the demonstration of celiprolol's partial beta 2-agonist activity in human beings. This is because, in vivo, cardiovascular reflexes are intact and it has not, so far, been possible to remove endogenous catecholamines. This review summarizes various studies to investigate partial agonist activity, with particular emphasis on celiprolol.
Vasodilatory beta-blockers: systemic and regional hemodynamic effects.	The systemic and regional hemodynamic alterations in hypertension and of the beta-adrenergic receptor inhibiting agents are reviewed. Hemodynamically, hypertension may be regarded as persistent elevation of arterial pressure associated with increased total peripheral resistance. In early or mild essential hypertension, however, increased total peripheral resistance may not readily be recognized because of the overriding effect of increased cardiac output. Clearly, the hemodynamics of blood pressure control are complex, and the mechanisms of antihypertensive agents must be used appropriately. The early beta-blockers reduced heart rate and cardiac output immediately after intravenous administration without immediately reducing arterial pressure, and calculated total peripheral resistance was increased. With prolonged oral treatment, arterial pressure decreased while maintaining a reduced heart rate and cardiac output. Total peripheral resistance, however, remained elevated. Recent beta-blockers, such as celiprolol, provide an improved physiologic response by instantly reducing arterial pressure and total peripheral resistance without reducing heart rate or cardiac output or expanding intravascular volume.
The effects of cardioselective vasodilating beta-blockers on lipids.	Ideally, an antihypertensive agent should have a neutral effect or, preferably, produce a favorable shift in the serum lipid and lipoprotein profile, which is associated with a decrease in coronary heart disease risk. The thiazides and loop diuretics increase total lipid levels, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and triglycerides. beta-Blockers without beta 2-agonist properties increase triglycerides and decrease high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels. Calcium antagonists, angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors, and combined alpha/beta-blockers are generally thought to have little effect on the lipid profile, although some studies have indicated a modest beneficial effect. alpha-Adrenoceptor antagonists are known to reduce LDL cholesterol levels modestly and to increase HDL cholesterol levels. The overall results of the currently available studies with celiprolol, a selective beta 1-antagonist with ancillary beta 2-agonist and vasodilating properties, indicate a favorable effect of the drug on serum lipid and lipoprotein profiles.
SK&F 87516, a close analog of fenoldopam, is a partial agonist at dopamine-1 and alpha-2 receptors and produces stimulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2 receptors in the cardiovascular system of the rat.	In pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, SK&F 87516 (1.25-80 micrograms/kg/min intravenously over 15 min), the fluoro analog of the selective DA-1 dopamine receptor agonist fenoldopam produced dose-related decreases in carotid artery blood pressure that faded during the infusion period. These effects were abolished by SCH 23390, prolonged by ritanserin, but unchanged by bilateral vagotomy, atenolol, ICI 118,551, idazoxan, methylatropine or S-sulpiride. SK&F 87516 also inhibited the hypotensive effects of clonidine and of the DA-1 receptor agonist fenoldopam, but not of acetylcholine. In pithed rats, SK&F 87516 produced a biphasic vasopressor response. The initial phase was enhanced by SCH 23390 and converted to a transient hypotension by idazoxan. The secondary response was inhibited by ritanserin and enalapril. In pithed, but not in intact rats, SK&F 87516 increased plasma renin activity. In intact rats, SK&F 87516 produced dose-related bradycardic effects that were inhibited (50%) by idazoxan, methylatropine or bilateral vagotomy and abolished by chlorisondamine or pithing. In pithed rats pretreated with either saline or idazoxan, SK&F 87516 reduced the tachycardia to electrical stimulation of preganglionic more than that to postganglionic cardioaccelerator nerve fibers. However, it did not modify heart rate increases evoked by intravenous norepinephrine. In conclusion, SK&F 87516 produces hypotension via vascular DA-1 receptor stimulation. The fading of this effect during the infusion of SK&F 87516 may be related to the partial agonist property of this compound at DA-1 receptors and the stimulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine-2 receptors. SK&F 87516 also behaves as a partial agonist at alpha-2 adrenoceptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Semiquantitative imaging measurement of baseline and vasomodulated normal prostatic blood flow using sildenafil.	The physiologic variability of blood flow to the prostate has not been studied until this time. We report the vasoactive effects of sildenafil and phenylephrine on blood flow of the normal prostate. Sildenafil increases prostate blood flow by approximately 75% and phenylephrine reduces the flow incrementally. Administration of these drugs with dynamic contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance imaging may improve the diagnosis of cancerous tissue because according to the literature, tumor angiogenic vessels lack the vasoactive physiologic response of the normal tissue.
Clinical pharmacology of ibopamine.	Ibopamine is an orally active derivative of dopamine (DA) which metabolizes to its active form, epinine. Epinine is one of the few catecholamines that possess dopaminergic--DA1 and DA2--activity, alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 1, and beta 2 activity, with indirect sympathomimetic action of dopamine. Ibopamine increased positive dP/dt, stroke volume, aortic blood flow, renal blood flow, and diuresis in animals. In healthy volunteers and patients with heart failure, a single oral dose of ibopamine showed primary vasodilating action (postsynaptic DA1 activity and presynaptic DA2 activity). Following a single oral dose of 100 or 200 mg of ibopamine, the plasma concentration of epinine reached its peak within 30 minutes, and declined rapidly so that concentration was not detectable after 1.5-3 hours. Pharmacokinetics and hemodynamic effects in congestive heart failure patients are also discussed.
Microcirculation in rat soleus muscle after eccentric exercise: the effect of nifedipine.	This paper explores the role of the calcium entry blocker nifedipine in the explanation of eccentric exercise-induced fibre damage by changes in skeletal muscle microcirculation. Eccentric exercise (EE) was induced by indirect stimulation of rat soleus muscle in its lengthening phase during cycling. Muscle damage was assessed by histology, electron microscopy and muscle tension 48 h later. Diameters of arterioles and venules, their response to dilator and constrictor stimuli and pattern of capillary flow were measured in epiiluminated muscles using intravital microscopy. Tetanic tension developed by EE muscles was lower (8.60 +/- 1.02, means +/- SEM, n = 8 N g(-1) wet weight compared to 12.25 +/- 0.56 in controls, P < 0.01). Electron microscopy showed changes similar to those in muscles exposed to EE by downhill running (Z line streaming, disruption of sarcolemma, swollen tubules). A total of 16% of muscle fibres were damaged, and fibre areas and interstitial space were enlarged. Capillary red blood cell flow showed tendency to a greater intermittency. Large venules were narrower, but arterioles and smaller venules had diameters similar to control muscles. Vessel dilatation to topically applied 10(-4) M adenosine was attenuated. Daily administration of calcium entry blocker nifedipine by gavage (2 mg/kg/day in two equal doses) removed the narrowing of venules, restored the dilator response of all vessels to adenosine and increased capillary:fibre ratio. The percentage of damaged fibres decreased to 4.7 and the size of the interstitial space and fibre areas was normalized. Thus muscle damage caused by eccentric exercise was attenuated by nifedipine due to its beneficial effect on muscle microcirculation, which was impaired by eccentric exercise.
Relative contribution of intracellular and extracellular Ca2+ to alpha2-adrenoceptor-mediated contractions of ovine pulmonary artery.	We have examined the mechanism of contractions elicited by guanfacine, a selective agonist for alpha(2A/D)-adrenoceptors and its modulations by cyclic nucleotides in isolated ovine resistance intra-pulmonary artery. Guanfacine (10 nM-30 microM) produced concentration-dependent contraction of the pulmonary artery rings mounted for isometric recording. Yohimbine (0.1 microM), a nonspecific alpha(2)-adrenoceptor antagonist caused a parallel shift to the right (1.2 log unit) in the concentration-response curve of guanfacine without depressing the maxima. Preincubation of the tissues with Ca(2+)-free solution (EGTA 1mM) for 30 min caused a rightward shift (0.8 log unit) of the concentration-response curve of guanfacine with the inhibition of the maxima by 30+/-4.6%. L-type calcium channel blocker, nifedipine (1 microM) slightly inhibited (20%) the maximal contraction elicited with guanfacine (10 microM). On the other hand, brief exposure to cyclopiazonic acid (10 microM), an inhibitor of IP3-sensitive sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase, resulted in marked inhibition of concentration-dependent contractions elicited with guanfacine (10 nM-30 microM), with the maxima being inhibited by 51+/-3.11%. In addition, agents that increase intracellular cAMP and cGMP suppressed guanfacine-induced contractions. The results of the present study suggest that alpha(2)-adrenoceptor-mediated contractions in ovine resistance pulmonary artery is primarily dependent on intracellular Ca(2+) with a small contribution from Ca(2+)-influx through voltage-dependent L-type calcium channels.
Mechanism of non-capacitative Ca2+ influx in response to bradykinin in vascular endothelial cells.	Bradykinin is a potent vasoactive nonapeptide. It elicits a rise in cytosolic Ca(2+) (Ca(2+))(i) in endothelial cells, resulting in Ca(2+)-dependent synthesis and release of endothelial vasodilators. In the present study, we investigated the mechanism of bradykinin-induced Ca(2+) influx in primary cultured rat aortic endothelial cells and in a mouse heart microvessel endothelial cell line (H5V). Bradykinin-induced Ca(2+) influx was resolved into capacitative Ca(2+) entry (CCE) and non-CCE. The non-CCE component was inhibited by a B2 receptor antagonist (HOE140; 1 microM) and a phospholipase C (PLC) inhibitor (U73122; 10 microM). The action of bradykinin could be mimicked by 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-glycerol, an analogue of diacylglycerol (DAG), and by RHC80267, a DAG-lipase inhibitor. Immunoblots showed that TRPC6 was one of the main TRPC channels expressed in endothelial cells. Transfection of H5V cells with two siRNA constructs against TRPC6 both markedly reduced the TRPC6 protein level and, at the same time, decreased the percentage of cells displaying bradykinin-induced non-CCE. siRNA transfection also reduced the magnitude of non-CCE among the cells responding to bradykinin. Taken together, our data suggest that bradykinin-induced non-CCE is mediated via the B2-PLC pathway, and that DAG may be involved in this process. Further, TRPC6 is one of the important channels participating in bradykinin-induced non-CCE in endothelial cells.
The effect of an adenosine A1 receptor agonist in the treatment of experimental subarachnoid hemorrhage-induced cerebrovasospasm.	Adenosine is a potent vasodilator and an important modulator of cardiovascular function. It has been postulated that nitric oxide (NO) is involved in adenosine-induced vasodilation. This study was designed to examine the effect of an adenosine A1 agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA), in the prevention of subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH)-induced vasospasm. Method. Experimental SAH was induced in Sprague-Dawley rats by injecting 0.3 mL autogenous blood into the cisterna magna. Intraperitoneal injections of CPA (0.003 mg/kg), or vehicle were administered 5 min and 24 hours after induction of SAH. The degree of vasospasm was determined by averaging the cross sectional areas of the basilar artery 2 days after SAH. Expressions of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in basilar artery were evaluated. Findings. There were no significant differences among the control and treated groups in physiological parameters recorded before sacrifice. When compared with animals in the control group, cross-sectional area of basilar arteries areas in the SAH only, SAH plus vehicle and SAH plus CPA groups were reduced by 19% (p < 0.01), 22% (p < 0.01), and 9% (p = 0.133), respectively. The cross-sectional areas of the CPA-treated group differed significantly from those of the SAH only and SAH plus vehicle group (p < 0.05). Induction of iNOS-mRNA and protein in basilar artery by SAH was not significantly diminished by CPA. The SAH-induced suppression of eNOS-mRNA and protein were relieved by CPA treatment. Conclusions. This is the first evidence to show an adenosine A1 receptor agonist is effective in partially preventing SAH-induced vasospasm without significant cardiovascular complications. The mechanisms of adenosine A1 receptor agonists in attenuating SAH-induced vasospasm may be, in part, related to preserve the normal eNOS expression after SAH. Inability in reversing the increased iNOS expression after SAH may lead to the incomplete anti-spastic effect of CPA.
Na+ -K+ -2Cl- cotransporter is implicated in gender differences in the response of the rat aorta to phenylephrine.	Inhibition of the Na(+)-K(+)-2Cl(-) cotransporter (NKCC1) with bumetanide reduced contractile responses to phenylephrine (PE) in male rat aortas (129+/-4% of 60 mM KCl-induced contraction control vs 108+/-7% bumetanide; PE 10(-5) M; P<0.01) but did not change equivalent responses in female rat aortas. Removal of the endothelium blunted the effect of NKCC1 inhibition on the response to PE (10(-5) M) in males, whereas in denuded aorta from female rats, bumetanide reduced this response (162+/-5% control vs 146+/-3% bumetanide; P<0.05). NKCC1 basal activity did not show gender differences in intact aortic rings, but in the presence of PE, bumetanide-sensitive (86)Rb(+)/K(+) uptake increased more in male than female aortas (179+/-8 in males vs 158+/-5 nmol (86)Rb(+)/K(+) min(-1) (g aorta)(-1) in females; P<0.05). PE did not stimulate NKCC1 activity in denuded aorta from male rats. However, in female rats, PE increased NKCC1 activity similarly in both denuded (169+/-11 nmol (86)Rb(+)/K(+) min(-1) (g aorta)(-1)) and intact aortas. Ovariectomy increased the bumetanide-sensitive (86)Rb(+)/K(+) uptake increase elicited by PE (223+/-17 nmol (86)Rb(+)/K(+) min(-1) (g aorta)(-1)) and hormone replacement with 17beta-estradiol prevented this effect (159+/-29 nmol (86)Rb(+)/K(+) min(-1) (g aorta)(-1)). Na(+),K(+)-ATPase basal activity, measured as ouabain-sensitive (86)Rb(+)/K(+) uptake, was similar in male and female rats, but the effect of PE was significantly less in intact male aortas (232+/-16 in males vs 296+/-25 nmol (86)Rb(+)/K(+) min(-1) (g aorta)(-1) in females; P<0.05). Our results suggest that PE induced activation of NKCC1 and Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in the rat aorta in a gender-dependent way.
Hypoxic vasoconstriction of partial muscular intra-acinar pulmonary arteries in murine precision cut lung slices.	Acute alveolar hypoxia causes pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV) which serves to match lung perfusion to ventilation. The underlying mechanisms are not fully resolved yet. The major vascular segment contributing to HPV, the intra-acinar artery, is mostly located in that part of the lung that cannot be selectively reached by the presently available techniques, e.g. hemodynamic studies of isolated perfused lungs, recordings from dissected proximal arterial segments or analysis of subpleural vessels. The aim of the present study was to establish a model which allows the investigation of HPV and its underlying mechanisms in small intra-acinar arteries.
Impairment of dilator responses of cerebral arterioles during diabetes mellitus: role of inducible NO synthase.	During diabetes, expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) plays an important role in the development of endothelial dysfunction in extracranial blood vessels. Progression of vascular dysfunction after the onset of diabetes differs among vascular beds. In this study, the effects of hyperglycemia/diabetes on vasomotor function were examined in cerebral arterioles at 2 different times in control and iNOS-deficient mice and compared with the effects on carotid arteries.
Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) magnetic resonance imaging in patients with dypiridamole induced ischaemia; a PET comparative study.	Blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) MRI relies on changes in deoxyhaemoglobin level in tissues under stress for signal variation and may be used for detection of ischaemic myocardium.
Effects of milrinone on blood flow of the Y-graft composed with the radial and the internal thoracic artery in patients with coronary artery disease.	Milrinone has been known to dilate the internal thoracic artery (ITA) and the radial artery (RA). The effect of milrinone, however, on each graft is unclear when the left ITA (LITA) and the RA form a Y-graft. This study evaluated the changes in blood flow of a composite Y-graft in response to milrinone.
Contractile recovery of heart muscle after hypothermic hypoxia is improved by nicorandil via mitochondrial K(ATP) channels.	The ATP-sensitive potassium channel (K(ATP)) opener nicorandil used instead of potassium in hypothermic cardioplegia significantly improves preservation of cardiac function and energetics in the in situ heart preparation. The present study, therefore, examines the effect of nicorandil at different temperatures and the role of sarcolemmal and mitochondrial K(ATP) channels under ex vivo conditions using contractile force (CF) and action potential duration (APD) as end points.
The role of potassium channels in the vasodilatory effect of levosimendan in human internal thoracic arteries.	We investigated the role of potassium channels in vasodilatory effect of levosimendan in human internal thoracic arteries.
Vasodilator drugs that act by stimulating guanylate cyclase in vascular smooth muscle]	Many exogenous and endogenous vasodilator substances produce their effects by stimulation of guanylate cyclase in vascular smooth muscle and increasing cyclic 3',5'-guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) levels. Activation of such enzyme leads to vasodilatation. Possibly as a consequence of a change in the pattern of protein phosphorylation, including dephosphorylation of the light chain myosin and of a decrease in the bioavailability of free calcium. Guanylate cyclase exists in two different forms in the vascular smooth muscle cells: a cytosolic (soluble) and the other associated to membranes (particulate). The nitro vasodilators and vasodilators with endothelium-dependent activity, act by main stimulation of the soluble guanylate cyclase, while the atrial natriuretic factor acts specifically on the particulate form of the enzyme. Guanylate cyclase represents the final path in the vasodilatation induced by diverse endogenous and exogenous substances, an aspect that has created a great interest among investigators due to its possible physiological, physiopathological and therapeutic implications. The more relevant aspects related with the mechanism of action of this numerous group of drugs are deeply analyzed in the present review.
Endothelium-independent flow-induced dilation in the mouse carotid artery.	We investigated the locus of flow regulation of vascular tone in carotid arteries of C57 Bl/6 and eNOS(-/-) mice.
Peculiarities of regulation of cardiac function in some mammals]	We studied acetylcholine induced changes of action potentials (AP) in ventricles and atria of bat, hedgehog, yakut ground squirrel, and laboratory mice. In atria of all these species of mammals acetylcholine caused pronounced dose dependent shortening of AP. However sensitivity of ventricles of studied animals to acetylcholine was different. Acetylcholine induced AP shortening was 29.4, 42.1, 6.6 and 11% in ventricles of bat, hedgehog, laboratory mice and ground squirrel, respectively. Ventricles of none of previously studied mammals had sensitivity to acetylcholine comparable by magnitude to acetylcholine sensitivity which we found in hedgehog and bat. It is suggested that these animals have unique nervous regulation of cardiac action, principally different from that of other mammals, which do not require parasympathetic regulation of ventricles.
Vasorelaxant effect of Win 55,212-2 in rat aorta: new mechanisms involved.	R(+)-[2,3-dihydro-5-methyl-3-[(moroholinyl)methyl] pyrrolo [1,2,3-de]-1,4benzoxazinyl]-1(1-naphthalenyl) methanone mesylate (Win 55,212-2) is a synthetic cannabinoid classically classified as a potent CB(1) and CB(2) agonist with high stereoselectivity and a slight preference for CB(2) cannabinoid receptors. Its vascular actions are not always explained by its binding to these cannabinoid receptors and new targets are being proposed. The aim of this study was to further assess the vascular actions of Win 55,212-2. Isometric tension changes in response to a cumulative concentration-response curve of Win 55,212-2 (10(-9) M-10(-4) M) were recorded in aortic rings from male Wistar rats. The involvement of the endothelium, cannabinoid receptors, vanilloid receptors, and the release of calcitonin gene related peptide (CGRP) was tested. Win 55,212-2 caused a concentration-dependent vasorelaxation in rat aorta. This vascular effect was significantly inhibited by endothelial denudation, inhibition of nitric oxide synthesis, a CB(1) receptor antagonist, a transient receptor potential vanilloid-1 antagonist, capsaicin desensibilization, and a CGRP receptor antagonist (P<0.001). CB(2) and non-CB(1)/non-CB(2) receptor antagonists only caused a slight inhibitory effect in vasorelaxation to Win 55,212-2. The present findings indicate that endothelium and nitric oxide-dependent vasorelaxation induced by Win 55,212-2 mainly involves vanilloid receptors while CB(1), CB(2) and nonCB(1)/nonCB(2) cannabinoid receptors have a minor participation in its vascular effect.
Antiinflammatory effects of Tacrolimus in a mouse model of pleurisy.	Tacrolimus is an antibiotic macrolide with immunosuppressant properties isolated from Streptomyces tsukubaensis.
A review of isosorbide dinitrate and hydralazine in the management of heart failure in black patients, with a focus on a new fixed-dose combination.	It is estimated that 25% to 30% of patients with heart failure (HE) in the United States are black. Compared with nonblack patients, black patients have a reduced ability to produce endogenous nitric oxide, which may be associated with enhanced responsiveness to drugs that increase the delivery of nitric oxide, such as nitrates. When used with nitrates, hydralazine (HYD) acts as an antioxidant and prevents development of nitrate tolerance.
L-arginine improves endothelial and myocardial function after brain death.	Recently, we showed that brain death (BD) leads to a severe impairment of endothelial function.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase inhibition reverses vascular dysfunction after gamma-irradiation.	The generation of reactive oxygen species during gamma-irradiation may induce DNA damage, leading to activation of the nuclear enzyme poly(adenosine diphosphate [ADP]-ribose) polymerase (PARP) culminating in endothelial dysfunction. In the present study, we assessed the effect of PARP inhibition on changes in vascular function after acute and short-term irradiation.
Expression of iNOS mRNA associated with suppression of colonic contraction in rat colitis.	Nitric oxide (NO) synthesis and inducible NO synthase (NOS) expression are increased in colon of patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) and associated with decreased contractility. The aim was to investigate which subtype of NOS that is activated in experimental colitis.
Calcium channel blocking activity of calycosin, a major active component of Astragali Radix, on rat aorta.	To investigate the vasoactivity of calycosin, a major active component of Astragali Radix.
Vasorelaxing effect of levosimendan against 5-hydroxytryptamine-induced contractions in isolated human conduit bypass grafts.	Levosimendan is a novel inodilator drug developed for the treatment of heart failure. The possible vasodilating property of the drug in human coronary artery bypass grafts was investigated. Isometric tensions of the left internal thoracic artery (LITA, n = 8) as well as the proximal and distal segments of the radial artery (RA, n = 8 and 8) were measured in isolated organ baths. Concentration-relaxation curves for levosimendan (0.009-1.14 micromol L(-1)) were obtained against 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; serotonin, 0.002-9.3 micromol L(-1))-induced contractions. 5-HT-induced contraction of LITA was considerably smaller than that of the proximal and distal RAs. Levosimendan relaxed the grafts in the following order of calculated maximum efficacies (E(max)): LITA > proximal RA > distal RA (LITA 100.3+/-16.2% of 5-HT-induced maximum tension, proximal RA 86.9+/-8.6%, distal RA 59.4+/-17.5%, P < 0.05 LITA vs distal RA). The potency values of levosimendan, expressed as the negative logarithm of 50% effective concentrations (pD(2)), were comparable in the three bypass grafts (LITA -6.52+/-0.44 log mol L(-1), proximal RA -6.60+/-0.49 log mol L(-1), distal RA -6.85+/-0.45 log mol L(-1)). The results suggest that levosimendan is an effective vasorelaxant of conduit bypass grafts and may serve as a new therapeutic tool, especially in the case of LITA and proximal RA grafts, for relieving perioperative spasm and subsequent graft failure.
Parasympathetic dysfunction is associated with baroreflex and chemoreflex impairment in streptozotocin-induced diabetes in rats.	This study explored physiological mechanisms of diabetic dysfunction in baroreceptors and chemoreceptors-mediated hemodynamic responses, and cholinergic neurotransmission in 30-day diabetic rats (n = 14) and controls (n = 14). Basal hemodynamic data and vagal response to electrical stimulation and methacholine injection were also evaluated. Muscarinic receptors were characterized using a radioligand receptor binding assay ([3H]N methylscopolamine). Experimental diabetes (50 mg/kg of STZ, i.v.) decreased systolic, diastolic, and mean arterial pressure and basal heart rate. Heart rate (HR) responses to vagal electrical stimulation (16, 32, and 64 Hz) were 15%, 11%, and 14% higher in diabetics vs non-diabetics, as were HR responses to methacholine injection (-130+/-24, -172+/-18, -206+/-15 bpm vs. -48+/-15, -116+/-12, -151+/-18 bpm, P < 0.05). Muscarinic receptor density was higher (267.4+/-11 vs 193.5+/-22 fmol/mg/prot, P < 0.05) in the atria of diabetic rats than in those of controls; the affinity was similar between groups. Diabetes-induced reduction of reflex responses to baro- (reflex bradycardia: -3.4+/-0.3 and -2.7+/-0.2 bpm/mm Hg; reflex tachycardia: -1.6+/-0.1 and -1.4+/-0.07 bpm/mm Hg, in control and diabetics, P < 0.05) and chemoreceptor stimulation, enhancement of HR responsiveness to cardiac vagal electrical stimulation and methacholine stimulation, plus an increase in the number of atrial muscarinic receptors indicates reduced parasympathetic activity, which is probably derived from central nervous system derangement.
Time-course of endothelial adaptation following acute and regular exercise.	Regular exercise training has emerged as a powerful tool to improve endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation. However, little is known about the magnitude of change and the permanence of exercise-induced adaptations in endothelial function.
Mechanisms underlying the cardiovascular effects of a labdenic diterpene isolated from Moldenhawera nutans in normotensive rats.	Cardiovascular effects of Labd-8 (17)-en-15-oic acid (Labd-8), a labdenic diterpene isolated from methanolic extract of Moldenhawera nutans were investigated in normotensive rats. Additionally, this study examined the role of autonomic nervous system in the mediation of these cardiovascular effects. In pentobarbital-anesthetized rats, bolus intravenous (i.v.) injection of Labd-8 (1-10 mg/kg) induced dose-dependent hypotensive and tachycardiac responses. After cervical bivagotomy, hypotensive responses to Labd-8 were significantly enhanced whereas the tachycardia was completely abolished. In conscious rats, Labd-8 (1-10 mg/kg, i.v.) also decreased blood pressure and increased heart rate in a dose-dependent manner. Pretreatment with methylatropine (1 mg/kg, i.v.) or propranolol (2 mg/kg, i.v.) significantly reduced the tachycardia evoked by Labd-8 without affecting the hypotension. Blockade of ganglionic neurotransmission with hexamethonium (30 mg/kg, i.v.) reduced and abolished the hypotensive and tachycardic effects of Labd-8, respectively. However, hypotensive effects of Labd-8 were not reduced by pretreatment with N(w)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 20 mg/kg, i.v.), a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. In rat endothelium-containing aorta preparations, Labd-8 (1-1000 micro g/ml) induced a concentration-dependent reduction of potassium (60 mM)-induced contraction [IC(50) (geometric mean +/-95% confidence interval)=313.6 (191.4-513.8) micro g/ml], an effect that remained unaffected [IC(50)=440.8 (225.1-863.3) micro g/ml] by removal of vascular endothelium. These results show that i.v. treatment with Labd-8-induced dose-dependent hypotensive and tachycardiac effects in both conscious and anesthetized rats. The tachycardia is mediated reflexly through inhibition of vagal and activation of sympathetic drive to the heart. The hypotension is mainly due to withdrawal of sympathetic tone to the vasculature and also partly to an active vascular relaxation. Released nitric oxide from vascular endothelial cells is not involved in the mediation of Labd-8-induced hypotension.
Flow-mediated vasodilatation of carotid and brachial arteries in healthy subjects and in lacunar stroke patients.	The vasodilatory response of arteries can be measured by ultrasound, and it was previously shown that brachial artery (BA) vasodilatation can be tested by postischemic hyperemia. In the current study, the primary objective was to determine if hypercapnia can be used to assess common carotid artery (CCA) flow-mediated vasodilatation (FMVD) in healthy subjects. Secondary objectives were to investigate CCA-FMVD in lacunar patients and whether BA-FMVD parallels CCA-FMVD. We used ultrasound to measure flow-mediated and nitroglycerin (NTG)-mediated vasodilatation in the CCA and BA in 20 healthy subjects and in 17 lacunar patients. BA-FMVD was induced by a postischemic maneuver. For the CCA, FMVD was induced by hypercapnia from CO(2)-enriched inhalation. BA and CCA vasodilatation were measured after sublingual NTG administration. BA dilated significantly in healthy (6.7%) and stroke subjects (4.2%) under postischemic conditions. The CCA dilated significantly after CO(2) inhalation (11.4% in healthy subjects and 4% in lacunar patients) and NTG administration (18% in healthy subjects and 10.6% in lacunar patients). Surprisingly, there was a strong negative correlation between CCA- and BA-FMVD in healthy subjects. CCA vasodilatation induced by CO(2) inhalation and NTG administration can be measured. The strong negative correlation between CCA- and BA-FMVD suggests that there could be different mechanisms of vasodilatation.
Identification of a cytochrome P450 2C9-derived endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor in essential hypertensive patients.	We assessed the role of cytochrome P450 2C9 (CYP 2C9)-derived endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) in the forearm microcirculation of essential hypertensive patients (EH) by utilizing sulfaphenazole (SUL), a selective CYP 2C9 inhibitor.
Nitrate administration increases blood flow in dysfunctional but viable myocardium, leading to improved assessment of myocardial viability: A PET study.	SPECT with 99mTc-labeled agents is better able to detect viability after nitrate administration. Nitrates induce vasodilation and may increase blood flow to severely hypoperfused but viable myocardium, thereby enhancing tracer delivery and improving the detection of viability. Quantitative data on the changes in blood flow are lacking in SPECT but can be provided by PET. The aim of the present study was to use PET to evaluate whether nitrate administration increases blood flow to chronically dysfunctional but viable myocardium.
The latest generation of beta-blockers: new pharmacologic properties.	beta-Blockers have generally demonstrated smaller reductions in cardiovascular events, compared with other antihypertensive classes, despite similar reductions in blood pressure. This may be due to the ineffectiveness of traditional beta-blockers, such as atenolol, in reducing central aortic pressure, a strong, independent predictor of cardiovascular outcome. However, the beta-blocker class is heterogeneous, and some newer beta-blockers, which exhibit vasodilatory effects independent of beta-blockade, provide beneficial effects on arterial stiffness and endothelial dysfunction, which may lead to reductions in central aortic pressure and improvements in clinical outcomes. For example, the vasodilating beta-blocker nebivolol was shown to improve forearm blood flow and arterial stiffness and, in a large clinical study, to significantly reduce morbidity and mortality, independent of left ventricular ejection fraction, among patients with chronic heart failure. Further research is warranted to investigate any potential differences between traditional and newer vasodilating beta-blockers on cardiovascular outcomes.
Impairment of endothelium-dependent aorta relaxation by phospholipid components of oxidized low-density lipoprotein.	Oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL) is a major component in the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis and plays a role in the changes of vascular reactivity observed in this disease. Herein the authors investigate the potential involvement of platelet-activating factor (PAF)-like phospholipid components of oxidized LDL in rabbit aorta reactivity. Aortic rings were precontracted with noradrenaline (0.5 microM) and relaxation was induced by subsequent stimulation with sequential additions of acetylcholine (1 nM to 3 microM). High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) fractions (6- and 7-min) obtained from phospholipids extracted from oxidized LDL inhibited relaxation evoked by acetylcholine, but not the relaxation induced by sodium nitroprusside. This effect was not antagonized either by incubation of the fractions with PAF acetylhydrolase or by incubation of the aortic rings with a PAF receptor antagonist. Authentic PAF or C4-PAF, a PAF mimetic previously found in fractions 6 and 7 did not inhibit acetylcholine-induced relaxation. In contrast, lyso-PAF inhibited acetylcholine, but not sodium nitroprusside-induced relaxation. The authors conclude that phospholipids of oxidized LDL impair vascular reactivity to endothelium-dependent agonists. This effect is not due to oxidatively generated proinflammatory PAF mimetics, but rather to a metabolite of these phospholipids, lysoPAF.
Dietary silica modifies the characteristics of endothelial dilation in rat aorta.	Considering the importance of nitric oxide generation in the regulation of vessel tone, reduced endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) expression in alveolar macrophages exposed to short-term silica (Si) suggests the possibility of Si-induced changes in endothelial functions. In this experimental study, the functional changes of the endothelial cells were investigated in the aortic rings of rats subjected to 50 mg Si/kg body weight in their drinking water for 8 days. Norepinephrine elicited contractility and dilation response to acetylcholine (ACh) was significantly high in the aortic rings of Si-treated group. Alteration in receptor-independent endothelial response to A23187 in the aortic rings of Si-exposed rats was less obvious, but sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-elicited dilation was reduced significantly. A23187-induced relaxation was fully eliminated with N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) pretreatment, whereas 19.24 +/- 4.36% of ACh response was L-NAME resistant and eliminated with 10-5 M tetraethylammonium (TEA). Despite a significant reduction in the share of NO, the contribution of indomethacine (IND)-sensitive relaxation to ACh response remained unchanged in Si group. As a result, our findings demonstrated that Si both modifies the characteristics of endothelial relaxants and attenuates smooth muscle cell responsiveness to NO. Si-induced reduced NO association with elevated endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) in response to ACh, together with reduced NO sensitization, might have clinical importance in cardiovascular pathology.
Coronary vasomotor response to phenylephrine in heart transplant patients.	Coronary vasomotor responses to sympathetic stimulation vary with endothelial-layer integrity or presence of atherosclerosis. Our study objective was to assess the effects of phenylephrine-induced alpha-adrenergic stimulation on coronary vasomotion in heart transplant recipients with and without graft atherosclerosis.
Nitric oxide-dependent vasodilatation by ethanolic extract of Hancornia speciosa via phosphatidyl-inositol 3-kinase.	The vasodilator effect of the ethanolic extract of leaves from Hancornia speciosa Gomes (HSE) was studied in rat aortic rings. HSE produced a concentration-dependent vasodilatation (pIC(50)=5.6+/-0.1), which was completely abolished in endothelium-denuded vessels. The endothelium-dependent vasodilatation induced by HSE was abolished by l-NAME (100 microM), a nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, but not atropine (1 microM; pIC(50)=5.6+/-0.2), a muscarinic receptor antagonist, nor indomethacin (10 microM; pIC(50)=5.4+/-0.2), a cyclooxygenase inhibitor. The concentration-response curve of HSE was significantly shifted to the left by superoxide dismutase (SOD; 300U/mL). In addition, while SOD displaced the 3-morpholino-sidnonimine (SIN-1; P<0.05) concentration-effect curve to the left, HSE (50 microg/mL) had no effect. Finally, wortmannin (0.3 microM), an inhibitor of phosphatidyl-inositol 3-kinase (PI3K), dramatically reduced the vasodilator effect of HSE. Together, these findings lead us to conclude that HSE induces a NO- and endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in rat aortic preparations, likely by a mechanism dependent on the activation of PI3K.
Rho-kinase contributes to hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced cerebral endothelial dysfunction.	Hypoxia/reoxygenation (H/R) in vitro induced cerebral endothelial dysfunction is mediated by superoxide production. However, the intracellular pathways involved remain unclear. The present study was designed to investigate the involvement of Rho-kinase and its interaction with nitric oxide (NO) in cerebral endothelial dysfunction after H/R. Arterial diameter and intraluminal pressure were simultaneously measured in vitro on rat posterior cerebral arteries. Vascular NO production was determined by measuring stable NO metabolites nitrate/nitrite. H/R selectively inhibited cerebral vasodilation to the endothelium-dependent agonist acetylcholine (ACh, 0.01 to 10 micromol/L) and caused NO deficiency. H/R-impaired vasodilation to ACh was reversed by Y27632 (1 micromol/L), a specific inhibitor of Rho-kinase, but not by chelerythrine (1 micromol/L), a selective inhibitor of protein kinase C. Y27632 had no protective effect in the presence of N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 100 micromol/L), a specific endothelial NO synthase inhibitor. L-NAME (100 micromol/L) alone failed to modulate H/R-impaired vasodilation, so did L-arginine (3 mmol/L), a substrate for NO synthase. However, a stable NO donor diethylenetetra amine-NONOate (5 micromol/L) normalized H/R-impaired dilation to ACh. In conclusion, H/R-induced endothelial dysfunction is associated with activation of Rho-kinase-dependent pathway and NO deficiency. Pretreatment with either Y27632 or the stable NO donor profoundly prevented H/R-mediated cerebral endothelial dysfunction.
Kynurenine in combination with probenecid mitigates the stimulation-induced increase of c-fos immunoreactivity of the rat caudal trigeminal nucleus in an experimental migraine model.	Nitroglycerin, often used as a migraine model, results in increased number of c-fos immunoreactive secondary sensory neurons in the caudal trigeminal nucleus. Since synapses between first- and second-order trigeminal neurons are mediated by excitatory amino acids, NMDA receptors are presumably inhibited by kynurenic acid, the only known endogeneous NMDA receptor antagonist. Although kynurenic acid does not cross the BBB, its precursor, kynurenine, if combined with probenecid, crosses it readily. Systemic kynurenine + probenecid treatment significantly diminishes nitroglycerin-induced increase of c-fos immunoreactivity in the brainstem.
Nicorandil opens mitochondrial K(ATP) channels not only directly but also through a NO-PKG-dependent pathway.	Nicorandil, a hybrid of nitrate generator and potassium channel opener, protects ischemic myocardium by opening mitochondrial ATP sensitive potassium (mitoK(ATP)) channels. We recently found that nitric oxide (NO) opened K(ATP) channels in rabbit hearts by a protein kinase G (PKG) mechanism. This study examined whether the NO-donor property of nicorandil also contributes to opening of mitoK(ATP) channels through PKG. MitoK(ATP) channel opening was monitored in adult rabbit cardiomyocytes by measuring reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, an established marker of channel opening. Nicorandil increased ROS production in a dose-dependent manner. The selective mitoK(ATP) channel inhibitor 5-hydroxydecanoate (200 microM) completely blocked ROS production by nicorandil at all doses. The PKG inhibitor 8-bromoguanosine-3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothioate, Rpisomer (Rp-8-Br-cGMPs, 50 microM) shifted the dose-ROS production curve to the right with an increase of the EC(50) from 2.4 x 10(-5) M to 6.9 x 10(-5) M. Rp- 8-Br-cGMPs did not affect the increase in ROS production by the selective mitoK(ATP) channel opener diazoxide while it completely blocked increased ROS production from the NO donor S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (1 microM). Furthermore ODQ, an antagonist of soluble guanylyl cyclase, blocked nicorandil's ability to increase ROS generation. These results indicate that nicorandil, in addition to its direct effect on the channels, opens mitoK(ATP) channels indirectly via a NO-PKG signaling pathway.
Time course of vasodilation at the onset of repetitive skeletal muscle contractions.	To characterize the vasodilatory response in the transition from a single skeletal contraction to a series of contractions, we measured the response of hamster cremaster muscle arterioles associated with four to five skeletal muscle fibers stimulated to contract for one, two, three, or four contractions (250-ms train duration) at 4-s intervals [15 contractions per minute (CPM)] for up to 12 s, at stimulus frequencies of 4, 10, 20, 30, 40, 60, and 80 Hz. To investigate the contribution of contraction frequency, we stimulated muscle fiber bundles at 30 or 60 CPM for 12 s at stimulus frequencies of 4, 20, and 60 Hz. Arteriolar diameters at the site of overlap with the stimulated muscle fibers were measured before and after each contraction. At 15 CPM at 4, 20, and 60 Hz, we observed a peak change in diameter following the first contraction of 1.1 +/- 0.1, 1.6 +/- 0.2, and 2.1 +/- 0.2 mum that almost doubled in response to the second contraction (2.0 +/- 0.1, 3.0 +/- 0.1, and 3.8 +/- 0.1 mum, respectively), but there was no further dilation following the third or fourth contraction. A similar response occurred at all stimulus and contraction frequencies tested. At 30 and 60 CPM at 60 Hz, the plateau after two contractions was followed by a further increase in diameter to a second plateau at 7-8 s. Therefore, the vasodilatory response in the transition from single to multiple contractions had components that were stimulation parameter dependent and independent and showed a plateauing behavior indicative of rapid changes in either the nature and/or concentration of vasodilators released or changes in vascular reactivity.
Baroreflex control of renal sympathetic nerve activity during air-jet stress in rats.	The effects of acute emotional stress on the sympathetic component of the arterial baroreceptor reflex have not yet been described in conscious animals and humans. Arterial pressure (AP) and renal sympathetic nerve activity (RSNA) were simultaneously recorded in 11 conscious rats before and during exposure to a mild environmental stressor (jet of air). Baroreflex function curves relating AP and RSNA were constructed by fitting a sigmoid function to RSNA and AP measured during sequential nitroprusside and phenylephrine administrations. Stress increased mean AP from 112 +/- 2 to 124 +/- 2 mmHg, heart rate from 381 +/- 10 to 438 +/- 18 beats/min, and RSNA from 0.80 +/- 0.14 to 1.49 +/- 0.23 microV. The RSNA-AP relationship was shifted toward higher AP values, and its maximum gain was significantly (P < 0.01) increased from 9.0 +/- 1.3 to 16.2 +/- 2.1 normalized units (NU)/mmHg. The latter effect was secondary to an increase (P < 0.01) in the range of the RSNA variation from 285 +/- 33 to 619 +/- 59 NU. In addition, the operating range of the reflex was increased (P < 0.01) from 34 +/- 2 to 41 +/- 3 mmHg. The present study indicates that in rats, the baroreflex control of RSNA is sensitized and operates over a larger range during emotional stress, which suggests that renal vascular tone, and possibly AP, are very efficiently controlled by the sympathetic nervous system under this condition.
Novel Rho kinase inhibitors with anti-inflammatory and vasodilatory activities.	Increased Rho kinase (ROCK) activity contributes to smooth muscle contraction and regulates blood pressure homeostasis. We hypothesized that potent and selective ROCK inhibitors with novel structural motifs would help elucidate the functional role of ROCK and further explore the therapeutic potential of ROCK inhibition for hypertension. In this article, we characterized two aminofurazan-based inhibitors, GSK269962A [N-(3-{[2-(4-amino-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-yl)-1-ethyl-1H-imidazo[4, 5-c]pyridin-6-yl]oxy}phenyl)-4-{[2-(4-morpholinyl)ethyl]-oxy}benzamide] and SB-7720770-B [4-(7-{[(3S)-3-amino-1-pyrrolidinyl]carbonyl}-1-ethyl-1H-imidazo[4,5-c]pyridin-2-yl)-1,2,5-oxadiazol-3-amine], as members of a novel class of compounds that potently inhibit ROCK enzymatic activity. GSK269962A and SB-772077-B have IC50 values of 1.6 and 5.6 nM toward recombinant human ROCK1, respectively. GSK269962A also exhibited more than 30-fold selectivity against a panel of serine/threonine kinases. In lipopolysaccharide-stimulated monocytes, these inhibitors blocked the generation of inflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-6 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha. Furthermore, both SB-772077-B and GSK269962A induced vasorelaxation in preconstricted rat aorta with an IC50 of 39 and 35 nM, respectively. Oral administration of either GSK269962A or SB-772077-B produced a profound dose-dependent reduction of systemic blood pressure in spontaneously hypertensive rats. At doses of 1, 3, and 30 mg/kg, both compounds induced a reduction in blood pressure of approximately 10, 20, and 50 mm Hg. In addition, administration of SB-772077-B also dramatically lowered blood pressure in DOCA salt-induced hypertensive rats. SB-772077-B and GSK269962A represent a novel class of ROCK inhibitors that have profound effects in the vasculature and may enable us to further evaluate the potential beneficial effects of ROCK inhibition in animal models of cardiovascular as well as other chronic diseases.
Vasoactive drugs enhance pancreatic islet blood flow, augment insulin secretion and improve glucose tolerance in female rats.	Pravastatin, irbesartan and captopril are frequently used in the treatment of patients with Type 2 diabetes. These drugs also exert beneficial metabolic effects, causing an improved glucose tolerance in patients, but the precise mechanisms by which this is achieved remain elusive. To this end, we have studied whether these drugs influence insulin secretion in vivo through effects on islet blood perfusion. Captopril (3 mg/kg of body weight), irbesartan (3 mg/kg of body weight) and pravastatin (0.5 mg/kg of body weight) were injected intravenously into anaesthetized female Wistar rats. Blood flow rates were determined by a microsphere technique. Blood glucose concentrations were measured with test reagent strips and serum insulin concentrations were measured by ELISA. Pancreatic blood flow was markedly increased by pravastatin (P<0.001), captopril (P<0.05) and irbesartan (P<0.01). Pancreatic islet blood flow was significantly and preferentially enhanced after the administration of captopril (P<0.01), irbesartan (P<0.01) and pravastatin (P<0.001). Kidney blood flow was enhanced significantly by pravastatin (P<0.01), irbesartan (P<0.05) and captopril (P<0.01). Captopril and pravastatin also enhanced late-phase insulin secretion and positively influenced glycaemia in intraperitoneal glucose tolerance tests. In conclusion, the present study suggests that a local pancreatic renin-angiotensin system and pravastatin treatment may be selectively controlling pancreatic islet blood flow, augmenting insulin secretion and thereby improving glucose tolerance. Our findings indicate significant gender-related differences in the vascular response to these agents. Since statins and renin-angiotensin system inhibitors are frequently used by diabetic patients, the antidiabetic actions of these drugs reported previously might occur, in part, through the beneficial direct islet effects shown in the present study.
Rho-kinase inhibition acutely augments blood flow in focal cerebral ischemia via endothelial mechanisms.	Rho-kinase is a serine threonine kinase that increases vasomotor tone via its effects on both endothelium and smooth muscle. Rho-kinase inhibition reduces cerebral infarct size in wild type, but not endothelial nitric oxide synthase deficient (eNOS-/-) mice. The mechanism may be related to Rho-kinase activation under hypoxic/ischemic conditions and impaired vasodilation because of downregulation of eNOS activity. To further implicate Rho-kinase in impaired vascular relaxation during hypoxia/ischemia, we exposed isolated vessels from rat and mouse to 60 mins of hypoxia, and showed that hypoxia reversibly abolished acetylcholine-induced eNOS-dependent relaxation, and that Rho-kinase inhibitor hydroxyfasudil partially preserved this relaxation during hypoxia. We, therefore, hypothesized that if hypoxia-induced Rho-kinase activation acutely impairs vasodilation in ischemic cortex, in vivo, then Rho-kinase inhibitors would acutely augment cerebral blood flow (CBF) as a mechanism by which they reduce infarct size. To test this, we studied the acute cerebral hemodynamic effects of Rho-kinase inhibitors in ischemic core and penumbra during distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (dMCAO) in wild-type and eNOS-/- mice using laser speckle flowmetry. When administered 60 mins before or immediately after dMCAO, Rho-kinase inhibitors hydroxyfasudil and Y-27632 reduced the area of severely ischemic cortex. However, hydroxyfasudil did not reduce the area of CBF deficit in eNOS-/- mice, suggesting that its effect on CBF within the ischemic cortex is primarily endothelium-dependent, and not mediated by its direct vasodilator effect on vascular smooth muscle. Our results suggest that Rho-kinase negatively regulates eNOS activity in acutely ischemic brain, thereby worsening the CBF deficit. Therefore, rapid nontranscriptional upregulation of eNOS activity by small molecule inhibitors of Rho-kinase may be a viable therapeutic approach in acute stroke.
Relationship between vascular damage degrees and endothelial progenitor cells in patients with erectile dysfunction: effect of vardenafil administration and PDE5 expression in the bone marrow.	To evaluate the levels of circulating progenitor cells (PCs) and the effect of a single dose of vardenafil 20mg on the number of these cells in men with erectile dysfunction (ED) and various degree of vascular injury at the carotid artery level.
Subjects with non-allergic non-infectious perennial rhinitis do not show nasal hyper-responsiveness to bradykinin.	Symptoms in non-allergic non-infectious perennial rhinitis (NANIPER) are characteristically trigged by non-specific irritants. Hyper-responsiveness to cold dry air has been demonstrated in NANIPER. Bradykinin is a peptide involved in allergic inflammation. Neurally mediated hyper-responsiveness to bradykinin has been demonstrated in allergic rhinitis. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether hyper-responsiveness to bradykinin is present in NANIPER. Normal subjects (n = 13) and subjects with NANIPER (n = 10) were subjected to a nasal bradykinin challenge protocol. Secretory responses were measured using filter paper disks, and congestive responses measured using acoustic rhinometry. Compared to normal subjects, with NANIPER had a greater secretory response to control challenge with Hartman's solution. On the other hand, the normal ipsilateral secretory and congestive response to bradykinin was absent in NANIPER. Subjects with NANIPER did not demonstrate any evidence of reflex responses to bradykinin, and no evidence of nasal hyper-responsiveness to bradykinin. Hyper-responsiveness to bradykinin is absent in NANIPER. These results suggest that autonomic hyporesponsiveness rather than neural hyper-responsiveness may be an important factor in the etiology of NANIPER.
Noradrenaline-induced contraction of mice aorta is enhanced in schistosomiasis.	Schistosomiasis, an intravascular parasitic disease caused by Schistosoma mansoni, is related to alterations of murine vascular reactivity in the mesenteric bed, characterized by an impairment of the l-arginine/NO pathway and an increased potency of 5-hydroxytryptamine. The current study was performed to test the hypothesis that a similar alteration of reactivity also occurs in the aorta and to identify the mechanism behind such an increase. We found that aorta from mice infected with male S. mansoni exhibited an enhanced contraction in response to noradrenaline and 100 mM KCl. The inhibition of nitric oxide synthase increased aortic maximal contraction in response to noradrenaline in both groups, but the effect was less pronounced in infected mice than in control mice. Endothelium-dependent relaxation induced by acetylcholine was also smaller in infected mice compared to control mice, while endothelial-independent relaxation induced by sodium nitroprusside and forskolin was similar in both groups. The inhibition of voltage-dependent L-type Ca(2+) channels reduced the maximal contraction in response to noradrenaline more effectively in infected than in control mice. Conversely the inhibition of K(ATP) channels had a smaller effect in the infected group. As a conclusion, our data indicate that schistosomiasis also alters murine vascular reactivity outside the mesenteric bed, due to a partial impairment of NO signaling, a reduced contribution of K(ATP) channels and an increased Ca(2+) influx through L-type Ca(2+) channels.
Vascular hyperresponsiveness to adrenomedullin during pregnancy is associated with increased generation of cyclic nucleotides in rat mesenteric artery.	Cardiovascular adaptation is a hallmark of pregnancy. Here we report on vascular hyperresponsiveness to an endogenous vasodilator, adrenomedullin (ADM), during pregnancy. Intravenous administration of ADM dose dependently decreased the mean arterial pressure, and the decrease was significantly greater in pregnant compared with nonpregnant rats without affecting the heart rate. In endothelium-intact mesenteric artery precontracted by ED70 concentration of norepinephrine, the potency and efficacy of ADM in causing the vasodilation of mesenteric arterial rings from pregnant rats are significantly higher compared with nonpregnant females at diestrus. The magnitude of inhibition of concentration-dependent response to ADM by the inhibition of either soluble guanylate cyclase or adenylate cyclase was greater in pregnant rats. Moreover, ADM-induced cyclic nucleotide generation, both cGMP and cAMP, in the mesenteric artery was elevated during pregnancy and was sensitive to the receptor antagonist, ADM22-52. These findings suggest that during pregnancy the vasodilatory effects of ADM are greater and are associated with increased generation of cyclic nucleotides in resistance vessels, and these changes may be part of the cardiovascular adaptations that occur during pregnancy.
The dietary flavonoid quercetin activates BKCa currents in coronary arteries via production of H2O2. Role in vasodilatation.	Large conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels (BKCa) regulate coronary artery tone in vivo, play a key role in blood pressure regulation, and have been suggested as novel potential drug targets in hypertension. Quercetin exerts systemic and coronary vasodilator effects in vitro and reduces blood pressure in several rat models of hypertension, and its consumption is associated with a lower mortality rate from coronary heart disease in epidemiological studies. We hypothesized that quercetin might activate BKCa channel in isolated myocytes from rat coronary arteries and that this mechanism might be involved in its coronary artery relaxant effects.
Nitrates, arterial function, wave reflections and coronary heart disease.	This chapter traces the history of nitroglycerin from the initial nitration of glycerol to its widespread clinical use. The pharmacologic differences between nitroglycerin and nitric oxide are described, as well as their similar mechanisms of action. The vasoactivity of nitroglycerin requires a biochemical transformation, the nature of which remains incompletely understood. This poorly defined mechanism probably also relates to the phenomenon of nitroglycerin tolerance. By increasing the distensibility of muscular arteries, nitroglycerin slows pulse wave velocity, reduces wave reflections and alters the shape of the aortic pulse. This alteration reduces the systolic blood pressure and left ventricular after load and helps to explain the usefulness of nitroglycerin in angina pectoris, congestive heart failure and isolated systolic hypertension.
The CX3C chemokine fractalkine induces vascular dysfunction by generation of superoxide anions.	The chemokine fractalkine activates platelets and induces leukocyte adhesion to the endothelium. Expression of fractalkine and its receptor, CX3CR1, is elevated in coronary artery disease. We assessed the effects of fractalkine on vascular function in isolated rat aorta.
Acute hyperglycemia in uterine arteries from pregnant, but not non-pregnant mice, enhances endothelium-dependent relaxation.	Poorly controlled diabetes in pregnancy, characterized by hypo- and hyperglycemia, is associated with adverse outcomes. We hypothesized that aberrant glucose levels affect vascular function in pregnancy. The effects of glucose concentration on constriction and endothelium-dependent relaxation in uterine arteries of normal C57BL/6 mice were examined. Ex-vivo arteries from 18 pregnant and 14 non-pregnant mice were mounted on a wire myograph, constricted with phenylephrine and relaxed with incremental doses of acetylcholine, in physiological saline solution containing 5 mmol/L glucose. Arteries were then exposed to solutions with 2, 5, 8 or 12 mmol/L glucose for 30 min and constriction/relaxation repeated. On altering glucose concentrations to 2, 8 or 12 mmol/L, maximal constriction was increased in arteries from pregnant but not from non-pregnant mice (paired t-test, p<0.05). Endothelium-dependent relaxation was enhanced at 12 mmol/L glucose in arteries from pregnant (two-way ANOVA, p<0.01), but not from non-pregnant mice. Endothelium-dependent relaxation in the uterine artery was pre-dominantly mediated by a non-nitric oxide/non-prostanoid mechanism, with a smaller contribution from nitric oxide, and no prostanoid-mediated relaxation. In summary, acute changes in glucose concentration alter both constriction and endothelium-dependent relaxation in uterine arteries of normal pregnant mice; these effects are unique to pregnancy.
Effects of a novel smooth muscle relaxant, KT-362, on contraction and cytosolic Ca2+ level in the rat aorta.	1. Inhibitory effects of a novel smooth muscle relaxant, KT-362 (5-[3-([2-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-ethyl]amino)-1-oxopropyl]-2,3,4,5- tetrahydro-1,5-benzothiazepine fumarate), on contraction and the cytosolic Ca2+ level ([Ca2+]cyt) in isolated vascular smooth muscle of rat aorta were examined. 2. KT-362 inhibited the contractions induced by high K+ and noradrenaline. The inhibitory effect was antagonized by an increase in external Ca2+ concentration. A Ca2+ channel activator, Bay K 8644, did not change the effect of KT-362 on high K+-induced contraction. 3. [Ca2+]cyt, measured with fura-2-Ca2+ fluorescence, increased during the contractions induced by high K+ or noradrenaline. KT-362 decreased [Ca2+]cyt and muscle tension stimulated by high K+ or noradrenaline. By contrast, a Ca2+ channel blocker, verapamil, inhibited the noradrenaline-induced increase in [Ca2+]cyt with only partial inhibition of the noradrenaline-induced contraction and KT-362 inhibited the verapamil-insensitive portion of the contraction without changing [Ca2+]cyt. 4. In a Ca2(+)-free solution, noradrenaline and caffeine induced a transient contraction following a transient increase in [Ca2+]cyt. KT-362 inhibited the increments due to noradrenaline but not those induced by caffeine. 5. These results suggest that KT-362 inhibits vascular smooth muscle contraction by inhibiting Ca2+ channels, receptor-mediated Ca2+ mobilization, and receptor-mediated Ca2+ sensitization of contractile elements.
Effects of porcine galanin on the mesenteric microcirculation and arteriolar smooth muscle in the rat.	The actions of porcine galanin on the mesenteric circulation at the arteriolar level and on the isolated mesenteric small artery were studied in the rat. Male Wistar rats were anesthetized then laparotomized. Microscopic observation of the mesenteric microvascular area was made with a video camera and changes in arteriolar diameter were measured continuously with a width analyzer. Galanin (0.03-300 pmol), given intra-arterially into the mesenteric arteriole, caused an intermittent interruption of blood flow within 40 s and finally stopped the blood flow within a few minutes. The diameter of arterioles was not changed or was slightly widened. Galanin also relaxed the preconstricted small mesenteric artery in an endothelium-independent manner. Furthermore, the relaxing action of galanin was not antagonized by glibenclamide, indicating that activation of ATP-sensitive K+ channels was not involved. The present results suggest that galanin plays a modulatory role in the mesenteric circulation.
Endothelial nitric oxide synthase activation leads to dilatory H2O2 production in mouse cerebral arteries.	Hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) produced by the vascular endothelium is a signaling molecule regulating vascular tone. We hypothesized that H2O2 derived from eNOS activity could play a physiological role in endothelium-dependent dilation of mouse cerebral arteries.
Effect of melatonin on vascular responses in aortic rings of aging rats.	In old animals a marked reduction in endothelium-dependent relaxation occurs. Since there is evidence that the endothelial dysfunction associated with aging may be partly related to the local formation of reactive oxygen species, the purpose of this study was to examine the effect of the natural antioxidant melatonin (10(-5)mol/l) on in vitro contractility of aged aortic rings under conditions of increased oxidative stress (40 m mol/l glucose concentration in medium). Experiments were carried out in 18-20 months old, Wistar male rats, using adult (6-7 months old) animals as controls. A higher plasma lipid peroxidation was found in aged rats as compared to the younger ones. In a first experiment, dose-response curves for acetylcholine-induced relaxation of aortic rings were conducted. Analyzed as a main factor in a factorial ANOVA, age decreased and melatonin augmented the relaxing response to acetylcholine. melatonin's restoring effect on aortic ring relaxation was found in aged aortic rings only and was more pronounced in the presence of a high glucose medium. In a second experiment, the effect of melatonin on the contractility response to phenylephrine of intact or endothelium-denuded aortic rings obtained from aged or control rats was examined in normal or high glucose medium. A main factor analysis in the factorial ANOVA indicated that age and operation augmented, and melatonin decreased, aortic ring contractility response to phenylephrine. Melatonin's restoring effect on aortic contractility was seen in aged aortic rings. The effect of age or a high glucose medium on phenylephrine-induced contractility was more pronounced in the absence of an intact endothelium. Aging did not affect the relaxant response of intact or endothelium-denuded rings to sodium nitroprusside. The results support the improvement by melatonin of vascular response in aging rats, presumably via its antioxidant activity.
Methotrexate regulates the expression of glucocorticoid receptor alpha and beta isoforms in normal human peripheral mononuclear cells and human lymphocyte cell lines in vitro.	MTX is an effective therapy for autoimmune-inflammatory diseases. The mechanisms that mediate these actions are not completely clear. It is accepted that many of these effects are mediated through the release of adenosine with the activation of the adenosine receptor A2. MTX is used as a steroid sparing agent. An improved in vitro GC cell sensitivity in GC insensitive asthma patients has been demonstrated after MTX treatment. Most GC actions are mediated by the GCR. The effect of MTX on GCRs expression has not been previously evaluated. Therefore, we evaluate if MTX regulates the expression of glucocorticoid receptors, increasing the expression of the active receptor (GCR alpha) and/or decreasing the expression of the dominant negative receptor (GCR beta). We show that MTX increases the mRNA and protein levels of GCR alpha and decreases or leaves unchanged the protein expression of the GCR beta in CEM cells in culture. This effect was also observed in other lymphocytes (Jurkat and Raji) and in PBMNC from healthy volunteers. We also show that upon MTX treatment PBMC from normal volunteers exhibit a higher sensitivity to DEX inhibition on LPS-induced TNF alpha release. To explore if these actions are mediated by adenosine through the adenosine receptor A2 we evaluate the effect of adenosine on the GCRs expression and the effect of an A2 receptor blocker (DMPX) on MTX effects on GCRs expression. Our results show that adenosine does not mimic and DMPX can enhance MTX effects on these receptors. We conclude that MTX increases the GCR alpha/GCR beta ratio of expression in lymphocytes which could mediate its previously reported effects in improving cell glucocorticoid sensitivity. These actions are not mediated by the adenosine receptor A2.
Smooth muscle caveolae differentially regulate specific agonist induced bladder contractions.	Caveolae are cholesterol-rich plasmalemmal microdomains that serve as sites for sequestration of signaling proteins and thus may facilitate, organize, and integrate responses to extracellular stimuli. While previous studies in the bladder have demonstrated alterations in caveolae with particular physiologic or pathologic conditions, little attention has been focused on the functional significance of these organelles. Therefore, the purpose of this study was to investigate the role of caveolae in the modulation of receptor-mediated signal transduction and determine the presence and localization of caveolin proteins in bladder tissue.
Transient AT1 receptor-inhibition in prehypertensive spontaneously hypertensive rats results in maintained cardiac protection until advanced age.	In young spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), transient angiotensin II type 1 receptor (AT1R) blockade decreases blood pressure for a prolonged period. We tested the hypothesis that transient AT1R blockade in SHR leads to cardiac protection until advanced age.
Fat intake modifies vascular responsiveness and receptor expression of vasoconstrictors: implications for diet-induced obesity.	Angiotensin II (Ang II), endothelin-1 (ET-1) and reactive oxygen species (ROS) have been implicated in the development of pathologic changes associated with obesity including hypertension and atherosclerosis. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of dietary fat content on vasoreactivity and receptor expression at the level of gene and protein expression.
Effects of acute changes in pulmonary wedge pressure on periodic breathing at rest in heart failure patients.	Patients with heart failure (HF) display a number of breathing abnormalities including periodic breathing (PB) at rest. Although the mechanism(s) contributing to PB remain unclear, we examined whether changes in pulmonary wedge pressure (PWP) and pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) alter PB in patients with established HF.
Usage of the T1 effect of an iron oxide contrast agent in an animal model to quantify myocardial blood flow by MRI.	To present a new method for fully quantitative analysis of myocardial blood flow (MBF) using magnetic resonance imaging. The first pass of an intravascular iron oxide contrast medium can be used to quantify myocardial perfusion. The technique was validated in an animal model using colored microspheres.
Effects of increased intracellular Cl- concentration on membrane responses to acetylcholine in the isolated endothelium of guinea pig mesenteric arteries.	ACh-induced membrane responses in vascular endothelial cells that have been reported vary between preparations from a sustained hyperpolarization to a transient hyperpolarization followed by a depolarization; the reason for this variation is unknown. Using the perforated whole-cell clamp technique, we investigated ACh-induced membrane currents in freshly isolated endothelial layers having a resting membrane potential of less negative than -10 mV. A group of cells was electrically isolated using a wide-bore micropipette, and their membrane potential was well controlled. ACh activated K(+) and Cl(-) currents simultaneously. The K(+) current was blocked by a combination of charybdotoxin and apamin and appears to result from the opening of IK(Ca) and SK(Ca) channels. The Cl(-) current was partially blocked by tamoxifen, niflumic acid, or DIDS and appears to be produced by Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) channels. When the pipettes contained 20 mM Cl(-), the ACh-induced K(+) conductance started decreasing during a 1-min application of ACh while the Cl(-) conductance continued, making the ACh-induced hyperpolarization sustained. When the pipettes contained 150 mM Cl(-), both conductances started decreasing during a 1-min application of ACh, making the ACh-induced hyperpolarization small and transient. [Cl(-)](i) is very likely modified by experimental procedures such as the cell isolation and the intracellular dialysis with the pipette solution. Such a variability in [Cl(-)](i) may be one of the reasons for the variations in the ACh-induced membrane response.
Longchain n-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids and microvascular reactivity: observation in the hamster cheek pouch.	Previous experiments in our laboratory, using the hamster cheek pouch microcirculation, have shown that precapillary vessels exhibit spontaneous rhythmic luminal variations, termed vasomotion, a myogenic activity sustained by a balance between membrane currents among which polarizing K(+) currents play an important role. In these microvessels, endothelium-derived relaxing factors (EDRFs) seem to regulate arteriolar diameter [via nitric oxide (NO) and cyclic GMP] and vasomotion [probably via endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)]. Fish or fish oil diet can decrease the risk of cardiovascular diseases, probably by modifying the conductance of selective ion channels, such as K(+) and/or Ca(++), and/or increasing the production of vasodilators, such as NO. To investigate its effect on microvascular reactivity, using the same preparation and an intravital microscope coupled to a closed circuit TV system, male hamsters were treated for 14 days, twice a day, with 0.4 mL/100 g body weight with fish or olive oil. An attempt was also undertaken to record in arterioles, in vivo, the membrane potential of smooth muscle cells during their vasomotor activity combining conventional microelectrode and intravital microscopy techniques. The effects of topical application of two vasodilators, acetylcholine [endothelium-dependent one, NO release and membrane hyperpolarization via Ca(++)-activated K(+) channels (K(Ca))] and sodium nitroprusside (endothelium-independent, NO donor and no change on membrane potential) and two vasoconstrictors which elicited membrane depolarization via Ca(++) channels, phenylephrine (alpha(1)-adrenergic receptor agonist) and serotonin (5-hydroxi-tryptamine) on mean internal diameter of arterioles and venules, arteriolar blood flows, spontaneous arteriolar vasomotion frequency and amplitude and functional capillary density (FCD, number of capillaries with flowing red blood cells per unit area of tissue) were determined. Anesthesia was induced by sodium pentobarbital (i.p.) and maintained with alpha-chloralose through the femoral vein. In the presence of vasomotion, the membrane potentials are slowly oscillating by about 20 mV around values of approximately -50 mV in perfect synchrony with vasomotor movements and depolarizing phases coincide with vasoconstrictions while polarizing ones with vasodilatations. Comparing all parameters, in control conditions, only the spontaneous vasomotion frequency was significantly higher (2.37 times higher) on the group treated with fish oil and persisted as such throughout all experiments. With topical application of the drugs mentioned above, the group treated with fish oil showed, for each drug concentration, a balance towards vasodilatation with consequent increase on arteriolar blood flow and on FCD, compared with the olive oil treated one. No significant changes on mean arterial pressure, spontaneous arteriolar vasomotion amplitude or venular diameter could be detected in the two groups. Our results support the concept that, in the hamster cheek pouch microcirculation, fish oil supplementation activates K(+) channels which act as the EDHF and might also increase the production of vasodilators, probably NO.
A new approach to intravital videomicroscopy of rat spinotrapezius muscle.	A modified preparation of the rat spinotrapezius muscle is described in which optimal conditions for intravital microscopy can be achieved while the supplying blood vessels are left fully intact, and mechanical stress to the muscle during preparation is reduced to an unavoidable minimum. The viability of the preparation is demonstrated using the response of arterial microvessels to endothelium-dependent and -independent dilators and to changes of ambient PO2, the presence of spontaneous vasomotion, and histochemical analysis of pertinent enzyme systems. The preparation is viable for much longer experimental time periods (up to 10 hours) than reported previously, provided the intensity of illumination is kept at a very low level. If the latter prerequisite is met, tissue edema, maximal vasodilation, and the associated loss of responsiveness to vasoactive stimuli of arterioles is reliably avoided.
Effects of landiolol on mechanical and metabolic changes in rat reperfused ischaemic hearts.	1. The aim of the present study was to clarify the effects of landiolol, a short-acting selective beta(1)-adrenoceptor blocking agent, on mechanical and metabolic changes in postischaemic perfused hearts. 2. Rat isolated hearts (n = 30) were randomly separated into non-ischaemic or ischaemic groups. The latter group was further divided into Krebs'-Henseleit solution (KHS)- and landiolol (30, 100 or 300 micromol/L)-treated groups. Ischaemic hearts were subjected to 25 min global ischaemia and 20 min reperfusion under atrial pacing. Time-course changes in left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP), LV developed pressure (LVDP), peak positive velocity of change of LV pressure (LVdP/dt(max)) and coronary flow were observed along with tissue contents of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), creatine phosphate, inorganic phosphate (Pi), malondialdehyde (MDA) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) release in coronary effluent. The effects of landiolol on rat isolated aortic preparations under KCl contraction were also investigated. 3. Ischaemia-reperfusion significantly impaired cardiodynamics, such as LVEDP, LVDP and LVdP/dt(max), decreased myocardial ATP content and increased Pi and LDH release. In the 30 micromol/L landiolol-treated group, cardiovascular parameters impaired by ischaemia-reperfusion and increased LDH release were further exacerbated and myocardial MDA content was significantly increased. In the 300 micromol/L landiolol-treated group, cardiac contractile dysfunction was improved and myocardial MDA, ATP and Pi contents were preserved. All measurements in the 100 micromol/L landiolol-treated group were similar to those in the ischaemic KHS group. Furthermore, significant relaxations of isolated aortic preparations were obtained with landiolol 30-1000 micromol/L, suggesting a possible calcium antagonism with landiolol. 4. In conclusion, landiolol, at low concentrations, aggravated myocardial ischaemia-reperfusion injuries, whereas at high concentrations it ameliorated them. The former effect may be mediated by the production of reactive oxygen species, whereas the latter may involve calcium antagonist activity.
Endothelium-dependent vasodilatory and hypotensive effects of Crotalaria sessiliflora L. in rats.	The aim of the present study was to investigate the vasoactive effect of Crotalaria sessiliflora L. extract (CSE) on rats and its mechanism when combining in vivo and in vitro approaches. CSE (0.5-5 mg/ml) induced concentration-dependent relaxation on endothelium-intact thoracic aortic rings precontracted with phenylephrine (PE, 10(-5) M). This effect disappeared with the removal of functional endothelium. Pretreatment of the aortic strips with either N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA, 10(-5) M) or methylene blue (10(-5) M) significantly reduced the relaxation induced by CSE. The endothelium-dependent relaxation caused by CSE was associated with production of cGMP. CSE (5 mg/ml) increased the production of cGMP in endothelium-intact aortic rings and this effect was significantly attenuated by L-NNA (10(-5) M) and methylene blue (10(-5) M). Relaxation in response to CSE in strips precontracted with PGF2alpha (3x10(-5) M) was eliminated by removing extracellular Ca2+ and significantly reduced by pretreatment with ruthenium red (10(-5) M). In in vivo tests, injection of 40 mg/kg of CSE induced an increase in plasma NO production, and this effect was blocked by L-NNA. Furthermore, CSE produced dose-dependent and transient decrease in blood pressure in normotensive rats and this effect was blocked by atropine as well as L-NNA. These findings suggest that CSE induces endothelium-dependent relaxation via NO/cGMP signaling by promoting extracellular Ca2+ influx and the release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores of endothelium, probably due to endothelial muscarinic receptor activation.
Converting enzyme inhibitors and the role of the sulfhydryl group in the potentiation of exo- and endogenous nitrovasodilators.	In this study, the effect of bradykinin on coronary flow in the isolated rat heart was significantly potentiated when cysteine or the sulfhydryl-containing converting enzyme inhibitors captopril and zofenoprilat were administered simultaneously. In contrast, the effect of concomitant administration of enalaprilat only slightly increased the effect of bradykinin on coronary flow. In nitrate-tolerant hearts of rats pretreated with isosorbide dinitrate (15 mg daily), the increase in coronary flow by nitroglycerin and bradykinin was significantly less when compared to control hearts. The effect of captopril was not affected by pretreatment. The involvement of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) in the effect of captopril was apparent from experiments with L-arginine, the precursor of EDRF, and L-NMMA, the "false" precursor of EDRF. L-Arginine increased the effect of captopril, whereas L-NMMA showed a competitive antagonism for the effect of captopril on coronary flow in the isolated rat heart. Clinically, the effect of captopril was studied in 10 patients with stable, exercise-induced angina pectoris that had been treated for 3 weeks with slow-release isosorbide dinitrate (20 mg four times daily). At day 7, a baseline exercise test was obtained. Subsequently, patients with chest pain and at least 1-mm ST-segment depression on the ECG during exercise were included. They received on day 14 and 21 either captopril (25 mg) or placebo 1 h before exercise testing in a randomized, double-blind, crossover design. Captopril significantly improved the combined score of maximal ST-segment depression, maximal workload, and time to angina when compared to placebo. No differences in the pressure-rate index at rest and during exercise were seen. These results indicate that the sulfhydryl group of certain angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors can potentiate their effect on the endogenous nitrovasodilator EDRF. In the clinical situation, this may lead to an improved exercise performance in patients with stable angina pectoris during chronic nitrate treatment, independent of its systemic vascular effects.
Vasodilator effects of peptides derived from egg white proteins.	The aim of this work was to investigate the effect of several peptides, identified before and after simulated gastrointestinal digestion of an egg white hydrolysate, on the vascular function, in rat aorta. The sequences IVF, RADHPFL and YAEERYPIL (0.1 mM) induced vasodilatation in intact aortic rings, with the maximum percentage of dilation corresponding to RADHPFL (40.5+/-7.0%). Two of the end products of the gastrointestinal digestion, RADHP and YPI, also showed vasodilator activity with degrees of relaxation higher than 50%. However, all these peptides failed to induce relaxation in endothelium-denuded aortic rings. The relaxation induced by RADHP was concentration-dependent and it was partially blocked by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME (100 microM) and by the B(1) bradykinin receptor antagonist Des-HOE 140 (30 nM), thus showing that it was mediated by NO production through the activation of B(1) bradykinin receptors. These findings suggest that these peptides could reduce the vascular resistance and could be used as functional food ingredients in the prevention and treatment of hypertension.
Vasodilatory effect of tuberoinfundibular peptide (TIP39): requirement of receptor desensitization and its beneficial effect in the post-ischemic heart.	Tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) is a member of the parathyroid hormone (PTH) family and a highly specific ligand of the PTH-receptor type 2 (PTH-2r). Recent studies have shown vasoactive properties of TIP39 in the kidney. This effect was stronger after desensitization of the parathyroid hormone-receptor type 1 (PTH-1r). The aims of our study were three-fold: (1) to investigate the influence of TIP39 on coronary resistance (CR), (2) to investigate a possible cross-talk between vascular PTH-receptors in the cardiovascular system, and (3) to investigate whether the endogenously released PTHrP during ischemia induces such a desensitizing effect. Experiments were performed on isolated rat hearts that were perfused with a constant pressure (Langendorff mode) and the coronary flow was determined. Under basal conditions, TIP39 showed no influences on CR. However, TIP39 reduced the CR by approximately 22% after pre-treatment of the hearts with a PTH-1r agonist. This TIP39 effect was abolished either by co-administration of a PTH-2r antagonist or by inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) formation. In an ischemia-reperfusion model endogenously released PTHrP desensitized the PTH-1r and pre-ischemic addition of TIP39 reduced post-ischemic CR by about 28%. Again, this effect was completely abolished in the presence of the PTH-2r antagonist or the PTH-1r-antagonist or by inhibition of NO formation. However, no effect was observed when TIP39 was washed-out prior to ischemia or if the treatment with TIP39 was restricted to the reperfusion. Furthermore, a pre-ischemic application of the NO-dependent vasorelaxant bradykinin provoked a similar effect on the post-ischemic CR than TIP39. In conclusion, a NO-dependent vasodilatory effect of TIP39 was demonstrated if the PTH-1r is desensitized by either exogenously applicated PTHrP peptides or endogenously released PTHrP.
OPC-28326, a selective femoral arterial vasodilator, augments ischemia induced angiogenesis.	OPC-28326, 4-(N-methyl-2-phenylethylamino)-1-(3,5-dimethyl-4-propionyl-aminobenzoyl) piperidine hydrochloride monohydrate, is a newly developed selective peripheral vasodilator and increases blood flow to lower extremities with alpha2-adrenergic antagonist property. Here, we investigated the effect of OPC-28326 on ischemia-induced angiogenesis. OPC-28326 enhanced tube formation by human aortic endothelial cells (HAECs). Moreover, OPC-28326 enhanced the number of microvessels sprouting from aortic rings embedded in collagen gel. OPC-28326 markedly induced phosphorylation of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) in HAECs via phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase PI3K/Akt (PI3K/Akt) pathway. Next, the angiogenic effect of OPC-28326 was evaluated in a mouse hindlimb ischemia model. Blood flow recovery to the ischemic leg was significantly enhanced by OPC-28326. Furthermore, anti-CD31 immunostaining revealed that OPC-28326 increased capillary density in the ischemic muscle. However, OPC-28326 failed to promote blood flow recovery in ischemic hindlimb in eNOS-deficient mice. These results suggest that OPC-28326 promotes angiogenesis, which was associated with activation of eNOS via PI3K/Akt pathway. OPC-28326 might be promising to treat patients with ischemic vascular diseases.
EGCG, a green tea polyphenol, improves endothelial function and insulin sensitivity, reduces blood pressure, and protects against myocardial I/R injury in SHR.	Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), a bioactive polyphenol in green tea, may augment metabolic and vascular actions of insulin. Therefore, we investigated effects of EGCG treatment to simultaneously improve cardiovascular and metabolic function in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR; model of metabolic syndrome with hypertension, insulin resistance, and overweight). In acute studies, EGCG (1-100 microM) elicited dose-dependent vasodilation in mesenteric vascular beds (MVB) isolated from SHR ex vivo that was inhibitable by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; nitric oxide synthase antagonist) or wortmannin [phosphatidylinositol (PI) 3-kinase inhibitor]. In chronic studies, 9-wk-old SHR were treated by gavage for 3 wk with EGCG (200 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)), enalapril (30 mg.kg(-1).day(-1)), or vehicle. A separate group of SHR receiving L-NAME (80 mg/l in drinking water) was treated for 3 wk with either EGCG or vehicle. Vasodilator actions of insulin were significantly improved in MVB from EGCG- or enalapril-treated SHR (when compared with vehicle-treated SHR). Both EGCG and enalapril therapy significantly lowered systolic blood pressure (SBP) in SHR. EGCG therapy of SHR significantly reduced infarct size and improved cardiac function in Langendorff-perfused hearts exposed to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. In SHR given L-NAME, beneficial effects of EGCG on SBP and I/R were not observed. Both enalapril and EGCG treatment of SHR improved insulin sensitivity and raised plasma adiponectin levels. We conclude that acute actions of EGCG to stimulate production of nitric oxide from endothelium using PI 3-kinase-dependent pathways may explain, in part, beneficial effects of EGCG therapy to simultaneously improve metabolic and cardiovascular pathophysiology in SHR. These findings may be relevant to understanding potential benefits of green tea consumption in patients with the metabolic syndrome.
Effects of formoterol and BRL 37344 on human umbilical arteries in vitro in normotensive and pre-eclamptic pregnancy.	Alterations in vascular responses to beta-adrenoceptor agonists in normotensive pregnancy and pre-eclampsia are not fully understood. Thus, we studied changes in vasodilator responses to beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist formoterol and beta(3)-adrenoceptor agonist BRL 37344 on umbilical arteries isolated from normotensive (n=12) and pre-eclamptic (n=12) pregnant women. Changes in the relaxant effect of formoterol and BRL 37344 were investigated by measuring isometric tensions in endothelium-denuded strips of umbilical arteries in the presence or absence of metoprolol, ICI 118.551 and SR 59230A (beta(1), beta(2), beta(3)-adrenoceptor antagonists, respectively, 10(-6) mol/L). Effects of formoterol and BRL 37344 on cAMP levels of umbilical arteries were evaluated by radioimmunoassay kits. Formoterol (10(-10)-10(-4) mol/L) and BRL 37344 (10(-10)-10(-4) mol/L) caused concentration-dependent relaxation of the contraction induced by phenylephrine (10(-5) mol/L) in umbilical artery strips isolated from both groups. E(max) values of formoterol and BRL 37344 (for normotensive pregnant women: 87.33+/-0.87 and 53.25+/-1.17 vs. for pre-eclampsia: 73.68+/-1.58 and 43.64+/-1.19, n=12, P>0.05, respectively) were significantly smaller in strips from pre-eclamptic women (P<0.05), with no significant change in pD(2) values. E(max) values of formoterol were significantly higher than those of BRL 37344 in both tissue (P<0.05). ICI 118.551 and SR 59230A, but not metoprolol, antagonized the relaxant effects of formoterol and of BRL 37344 on umbilical artery strips isolated from normotensive and pre-eclamptic pregnant women. Formoterol and BRL 37344 increased cAMP levels in both groups, but less significant in pre-eclamptic strips (P<0.05). These results suggest that the relaxation caused in human umbilical arteries by formoterol and BRL 37344 is mediated by a mixed population of beta(2)- and beta(3)-adrenoceptor subtypes, with contribution of cAMP. Umbilical arteries from subjects with pre-eclampsia showed a weaker beta(2)- and beta(3)-receptor-mediated relaxation to formoterol and BRL 37344, suggesting that the reduced action of formoterol and BRL 37344 may be partly due to a decreased effect of cAMP.
Novel role of AQP-1 in NO-dependent vasorelaxation.	Nitric oxide (NO) produced by endothelial cells diffuses to vascular smooth muscle cells to cause dilatation of the renal vasculature and other vessels. Although it is generally assumed that NO moves from cell to cell by free diffusion, we recently showed that aquaporin-1 (AQP-1) transports NO across cell membranes. AQP-1 is expressed in endothelial and vascular smooth muscle cells. We hypothesized that diffusion of NO into vascular smooth muscle cells and out of endothelial cells is facilitated by AQP-1, and transport of NO by AQP-1 is involved in endothelium-dependent relaxation. In intact aortic rings from AQP-1 -/- mice, vasorelaxation induced by acetylcholine (which increases endogenous NO) was reduced (P < 0.0001 vs. control). No differences were found in the relaxation caused by intracellular delivery of NO or intracellular cGMP between strains. In endothelium-denuded aortic rings from AQP-1 -/- mice, the vasorelaxant capability of NO released in the extracellular space was reduced (P < 0.0001 vs. control). Influx of NO (5 microM) into vascular smooth muscle cells was 0.17 +/- 0.02 f.u./s for control and 0.07 +/- 0.01 f.u./s for AQP-1 -/- mice, 62% lower (P < 0.002). NO released by endothelial cells in response to 1 microM acetylcholine was 96.2 +/- 17.7 pmol NO/mg for control and 41.9 +/- 13.4 pmol NO/mg for AQP-1 -/- mice, 56% reduction (P < 0.04). NOS3 expression was 1.33 +/- 0.29 O.D. units for control and 3.84 +/- 0.76 O.D. units for AQP-1 -/- mice, 188% increase (P < 0.01). We conclude that 1) AQP-1 facilitates NO influx into vascular smooth muscle cells, 2) AQP-1 facilitates NO diffusion out of endothelial cells, and 3) transport of NO by AQP-1 is required for full expression of endothelium-dependent relaxation.
Carbon monoxide-mediated activation of large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channels contributes to mesenteric vasodilatation in cirrhotic rats.	Large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channels (BK(Ca)s) are important regulators of arterial tone and represent a mediator of the endogenous vasodilator carbon monoxide (CO). Because an up-regulation of the heme oxygenase (HO)/CO system has been associated with mesenteric vasodilatation of cirrhosis, we analyzed the interactions of BK(Ca) and of HO/CO in the endothelium-dependent dilatation of mesenteric arteries in ascitic cirrhotic rats. In pressurized mesenteric arteries (diameter, 170-350 microm) of ascitic cirrhotic rats, we evaluated the effect of inhibition of BK(Ca), HO, and guanylyl-cyclase on dilatation induced by acetylcholine and by exogenous CO; and HO-1 and BK(Ca) subunit protein expression. Inhibition of HO and of BK(Ca) reduced acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation more in cirrhotic rats than in control rats, whereas inhibition of guanylyl-cyclase had a similar effect in the two groups. CO was more effective in cirrhotic rats than in control rats, and the effect was hindered by BK(Ca) inhibition. The expression of HO-1 and of BK(Ca) alpha-subunit was higher in mesenteric arteries of cirrhotic rats compared with that of control animals, whereas the expression of the BK(Ca) beta1-subunit was lower. In conclusion, an overexpression of BK(Ca) alpha-subunits, possibly due to HO up-regulation with increased CO production, participates in the endothelium-dependent alterations and mesenteric arterial vasodilatation of ascitic cirrhotic rats.
The enhanced endothelin-1-induced contraction in cultured coronary arteries from mature female pigs is not antagonized by 17beta-estradiol.	We have previously reported that organ cultured coronary arteries from market-age pigs (6-9 months of age) exhibit an enhanced contraction to the atherosclerotic-associated peptide, endothelin-1 (ET-1). The objective of this study was to investigate the interaction of 17beta-estradiol with ET-1 in organ cultured coronary arteries from older female pigs (3-4 years old). A cumulative concentration-response relationship (1 x 10(-9) M to 3 x 10(-7) M) was generated to ET-1, and the isometric tension measured in fresh and organ cultured (4 days at 37 degrees C) arterial rings that were each pre-incubated for 50 min in different concentrations (1 x 10(-9) M to 1 x 10(-5) M) of 17beta-estradiol. Compared to freshly used arteries, culturing induced a 2-fold increase in tension development to ET-1 (3 x 10(-7) M). Although 17beta-estradiol previously relaxed pre-constricted (with a 60 mM KCl solution) arteries, it did not affect the constrictive response to ET-1. Also, using an ET-1 ELISA we found that 17beta-estradiol did not effect ET-1 production in intact arteries. Our results indicate that 17beta-estradiol does not attenuate the production and constrictive properties of ET-1 in coronary arteries demonstrating a dedifferentiated cell phenotype.
Programmed aortic dysfunction and reduced Na+,K+-ATPase activity present in first generation offspring of lard-fed rats does not persist to the second generation.	We have previously reported that male and female offspring of Sprague-Dawley rats fed a diet rich (approximately 50% of caloric intake from fat) in animal fat (lard) during pregnancy and suckling (OHF) demonstrate cardiovascular dysfunction, including blunted endothelium-dependent vasodilatation in the aorta as well as reduced renal Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity. Cardiovascular dysfunction has been reported in other models of developmental programming and some researchers describe transmission from F(1) to F(2) generations. Here we report a study of vascular function, as assessed in isolated rings of aorta mounted in an organ bath, and renal Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity in 6-month-old male and female F(2) offspring of lard-fed and control-fed (OC) dams (n = 13 per diet group). An increase in brain (OC 0.61 +/- 0.01% versus OHF 0.66 +/- 0.02% of bodyweight) and kidney weights (OC 0.32 +/- 0.01% versus OHF 0.37 +/- 0.01% of bodyweight) was observed in female F(2) offspring of lard-fed dams compared with F(2) controls (P < 0.03). Constrictor responses to phenylephrine in the aorta were not different from F(2) controls (repeated measures ANOVA, P = 0.85). Also, endothelium-dependent dilator function, as assessed by responses to acetylcholine (repeated measures ANOVA, P = 0.96) and passive distensibility in the absence of extracellular calcium (repeated measures ANOVA, P = 0.68), was similar. Additionally, renal Na(+),K(+)-ATPase activity was not statistically different from that observed in control animals (ANOVA, P = 0.89). Although a maternal diet rich in animal fat has deleterious effects on parameters of cardiovascular risk in F(1) animals, it does not appear that disorders previously reported in the F(1) generation are transmitted to the F(2) generation.
Deletion of neuronal NOS prevents impaired vasodilation in septic mouse skeletal muscle.	Sepsis-stimulated nitric oxide (NO) production impairs arteriolar responsiveness in skeletal muscle. Using wild type (WT), eNOS(-/-), iNOS(-/-) and nNOS(-/-) mice, we aimed to determine the key nitric oxide synthase (NOS) isoenzyme(s) responsible for the arteriolar hyporesponsiveness to acetylcholine (ACh) in septic skeletal muscle.
The role of NO-cGMP pathway and potassium channels on the relaxation induced by clonidine in the rat mesenteric arterial bed.	The mechanisms involved in the vasodilation action of clonidine have not yet been completely elucidated. We investigated the potential mechanisms that seem to be involved in the clonidine vasodilator effect using rat isolated mesenteric arterial bed (MAB). In precontracted MAB, clonidine (10-300 pmol) induced a dose-dependent relaxation, that was inhibited by endothelium removal (deoxycholic acid - 2.5 mM) and reduced by the alpha(2) adrenoceptor inhibitors yohimbine (1-3 microM) and rauwolscine (1 microM). The endothelium-dependent vasodilation induced by clonidine was reduced by the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor L-NAME (0.3 mM) and guanylyl cyclase inhibitor ODQ (10 microM) but was not affected by indomethacin (3-10 microM) alone. High K+ (25 mM) solution reduced the vasodilator effect of clonidine that was further attenuated by L-NAME. In the presence of high K+ plus L-NAME, the residual vasodilator effect of clonidine was further reduced by indomethacin (3 microM). The Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channel (K+(Ca2+)) inhibitors, charybdotoxin (ChTx; 0.1 microM) plus apamin (0.1 microM), also reduced the vasodilation induced by clonidine, however this response was not further reduced in the presence of L-NAME as observed with acetylcholine (10 pmol). In the presence of ATP-dependent K+ channel (K+(ATP)) blocker, glibenclamide (10 microM), the inhibitory effect of ChTx plus apamin plus L-NAME was increased. In contrast, the vasodilation induced by clonidine was not affected by voltage-dependent K+ channels (K(V)) blocker, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, 1 mM). In conclusion, our results demonstrate that clonidine activates alpha(2)-adrenoceptors in rat MAB and that the endothelium-dependent vasodilation is mediated by activation of NO-cGMP pathway, hyperpolarization due to activation of K+(Ca) and K+(ATP) channels. Prostaglandins might participate in the vasodilator effect of clonidine when NO and EDHF mechanisms are blunted.
S-nitrosoglutathione-containing hydrogel increases dermal blood flow in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Endothelial dysfunction is characterized by decreased vasodilatory capacity of the arterioles mainly due to the reduced release of nitric oxide (NO). Application of NO donors may prevent or even reverse the consequences of endothelial dysfunction, such as diabetic leg ulcers.
Plasmin induces endothelium-dependent nitric oxide-mediated relaxation in the porcine coronary artery.	Plasmin is a key enzyme in fibrinolysis. We attempted to determine the possible role of plasmin in the regulation of vascular tone, while also investigating the mechanism of plasmin-induced vasorelaxation.
Anti-LOX-1 rescues endothelial function in coronary arterioles in atherosclerotic ApoE knockout mice.	We hypothesized that atherosclerosis inhibits NO-mediated endothelium-dependent dilation of coronary arterioles through interaction of ox-LDL with its receptor, LOX-1, through the production of O2- in endothelial cells.
In vivo observation of leukocyte-endothelium interaction in ischemia reperfusion injury with the dorsal window chamber and the effects of pentoxifylline on reperfusion injury.	Ischemia reperfusion injury can cause failure in microsurgical operations. Interaction between leukocytes and endothelium is recognized as an integral step in ischemia reperfusion injury. Pentoxifylline is a methylxanthine derivative that has pharmacological properties that can be beneficial in ischemia reperfusion injury. The aim of this study was to investigate the in vivo effect of pentoxifylline on leukocyte-endothelium interaction in ischemia reperfusion injury.
Taurine protects against low-density lipoprotein-induced endothelial dysfunction by the DDAH/ADMA pathway.	Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA), a major endogenous nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor, is thought to be a key contributor for endothelial dysfunction. Decrease in activity of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH), a major hydrolase of ADMA, causes accumulation of ADMA in some risk factors of atherosclerosis, including hypercholesterolemia. Taurine is a semi-essential amino acid that has previously been shown to have endothelial protective effects. The present study was to test whether the protective effect of taurine on endothelial function is related to modulation of the DDAH/ADMA pathway. A single injection of native LDL (4 mg/kg, i.v.) markedly reduced endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation and the plasma level of NO, and increased plasma concentrations of ADMA, malondialdehyde (MDA) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). Treatment with taurine in vivo (60 or 180 mg/kg) significantly attenuated the inhibition of endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation and the reduced level of NO, and decreased the elevated levels of ADMA, MDA, and TNF-alpha. Incubation human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) with ox-LDL (100 microg/ml) for 24 h markedly increased the medium levels of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), ADMA, TNF-alpha and MDA, and decreased the level of NO in the medium and the intracellular activity of DDAH. Taurine (1 or 5 microg/ml) significantly attenuated the increases in the levels of LDH, ADMA, TNF-alpha and MDA, and the decrease in the level of NO and the activity of DDAH induced by ox-LDL in HUVECs. The present results suggested that taurine protected against endothelial dysfunction induced by native LDL in vivo or by ox-LDL in endothelial cells, and the protective effect of taurine on the endothelium is related to decrease in ADMA level by increasing of DDAH activity.
DCEBIO-mediated dilations are attenuated in the female rat middle cerebral artery.	Unlike in peripheral vessels, the endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated component to P2Y(2) receptor-mediated dilations is significantly attenuated in the middle cerebral artery (MCA) of female rats compared to male rats. One aspect to the EDHF phenomenon is activation of the intermediate calcium-sensitive potassium (IK(Ca)) channels located on the endothelium. In an attempt to pinpoint the site along the EDHF pathway that is compromised in females, we tested the hypothesis that direct activation of IK(Ca) channels with DCEBIO would elicit attenuated hyperpolarization in the endothelium and smooth muscle of females compared to males.
Novel nitric oxide synthase--dependent mechanism of vasorelaxation in small arteries from hypertensive rats.	To determine the mechanism(s) involved in vasorelaxation of small arteries from hypertensive rats, normotensive (NORM), angiotensin II-infused (ANG), high-salt (HS), ANG high-salt (ANG/HS), placebo, and deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt rats were studied. Third-order mesenteric arteries from ANG or ANG/HS displayed decreased sensitivity to acetylcholine (ACh)-induced vasorelaxation compared with NORM or HS, respectively. Maximal relaxations were comparable between groups. Blockade of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels had no effect on ANG versus blunting relaxation in NORM (log EC(50): -6.8+/-0.1 versus -7.2+/-0.1 mol/L). NO synthase (NOS) inhibition abolished ACh-mediated relaxation in small arteries from ANG, ANG/HS, and deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt versus blunting relaxation in NORM, HS, and placebo (% maximal relaxation: ANG: 2.7+/-1.8; ANG/HS: 7.2+/-3.2; NORM: 91+/-3.1; HS: 82.1+/-13.3; deoxycorticosterone acetate-salt: 35.2+/-17.7; placebo: 79.3+/-10.3), indicating that NOS is the primary vasorelaxation pathway in these arteries from hypertensive rats. We hypothesized that NO/cGMP signaling and NOS-dependent H(2)O(2) maintains vasorelaxation in small arteries from ANG. ACh increased NOS-dependent cGMP production, indicating that NO/cGMP signaling is present in small arteries from ANG (55.7+/-6.9 versus 30.5+/-5.1 pmol/mg), and ACh stimulated NOS-dependent H(2)O(2) production (ACh: 2.8+/-0.2 micromol/mg; N(omega)-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester hydrochloride+ACh: 1.8+/-0.1 micromol/mg) in small arteries from ANG. H(2)O(2) induced vasorelaxation and catalase blunted ACh-mediated vasorelaxation. In conclusion, Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel-mediated relaxation is dysfunctional in small mesenteric arteries from hypertensive rats, and the NOS pathway compensates to maintain vasorelaxation in these arteries through NOS-mediated cGMP and H(2)O(2) production.
Modulation of vascular reactivity in normal, hypertensive and diabetic rat aortae by a non-antioxidant flavonoid.	In this study, we report the effects of a non-antioxidant flavonoid flavone on vascular reactivity in Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rat isolated aortae. Whether flavone directly modulates vascular reactivity in spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) and streptozotocin-induced diabetic-WKY rat isolated aortae was also determined. Thoracic aortic rings were mounted in organ chambers and exposed to various drug treatments in the presence of flavone (10 microM) or its vehicle (DMSO), which served as control. Pretreatment with flavone enhanced relaxant effects to endothelium-dependent vasodilator acetylcholine (ACh) and attenuated contractile effects to alpha(1)-receptor agonist phenylephrine (PE) in WKY aortae compared to those observed in control aortic rings. Flavone had no effect on relaxations to ACh in WKY aortae incubated with either L-NAME or methylene blue, but enhanced relaxations to ACh in WKY aortae incubated with indomethacin or partially depolarized with KCl. Relaxations to ACh are totally abolished in both control or flavone pretreated endothelium-denuded WKY aortae. Flavone attenuated the inhibition by beta-NADH of ACh-induced relaxation in WKY aortae, but it had no significant effect on the transient contractions induced by beta-NADH nor the pyrogallol-induced abolishment of ACh-induced relaxation in WKY aortae. Flavone enhanced endothelium-independent relaxation to sodium nitroprusside (SNP) in both endothelium-intact and -denuded WKY aortae. Flavone enhanced relaxation to ACh and SNP as well as attenuated contractile effects to PE in SHR and diabetic aortae, a finding similar to that observed in normal WKY aortae. From these results, we conclude that flavone modulates vascular reactivity in normal as well as hypertensive and diabetic aortae. These effects of flavone results probably through enhanced bioactivity of nitric oxide released from the endothelium.
The effect of intravenous PACAP38 on cerebral hemodynamics in healthy volunteers.	PACAP38 is an endogenous peptide located in trigeminal perivascular nerve fibers in the brain. It reduces neuronal loss and infarct size in animal stroke models and has been proposed a candidate substance for human clinical studies of stroke. The effect on systemic hemodynamics and regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) is not well understood. We here present the first study of the effect of PACAP38 on cerebral hemodynamics in humans. PACAP (10 pmol kg(-1) min(-1)) or placebo (0.9% saline) was infused for 20 min into 12 healthy young volunteers in a cross over, double blind study. rCBF was measured with SPECT and (133)Xe inhalation and mean blood flow velocity in the middle cerebral artery was measured with transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. End tidal partial pressure of CO(2) (P(et)CO(2)) and vital parameters were recorded throughout the 2 hour study period. PACAP38 decreased rCBF in all regions of interest (ROIs) by approximately 3-10%, though not uniformly significant. P(et)CO(2) decreased significantly during PACAP38 infusion compared to placebo (P=0.032), peak decrease was 8.9+/-3.8%. After correction for P(et)CO(2), rCBF remained unchanged in most ROIs. Heart rate increased 61.9+/-22.4% (P<0.0001 vs. placebo). These findings suggest that PACAP38 has no major direct effect on rCBF in healthy volunteers. The marked increase in heart rate and the reduction in rCBF caused by decreased P(et)CO(2) are important dose-limiting factors to consider in future clinical studies.
Characterization of the relaxant response to N,N'-dipropyl-1,2-bis(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamine in porcine coronary arteries.	N,N'-Dialkyl-1,2-bis(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamines show structural analogy with estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators. Because the vasodilator properties of these compounds are unknown, we investigated their potential to relax porcine coronary arteries and determined the mechanism(s) of relaxation. Isolated porcine coronary arterial rings were suspended in organ chambers, precontracted with KCl (30 mM), and the relaxant response was determined by measurement of changes in isometric force. Dependent on the chemical structure, the drugs induced concentration-dependent relaxation in rings with and without endothelium. N,N'-Dipropyl-1,2-bis(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamine (8) was most potent and showed a 12- to 15-fold higher vasodilatory effect than 17beta-estradiol (E2). The vasorelaxation was independent of endothelium. Calcium concentration-dependent contractions in high-potassium depolarizing medium were insurmountably inhibited by 8. The effect of the L-type Ca2+ channel activator (S)-(-)-Bay K 8644 [(S)-(-)-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]-3-pyridine-carboxylic acid methyl ester], which induced a leftward shift of Ca2+ contraction, was blocked by 8. The relaxant response to 8 was unaffected by the estrogen receptor antagonist ICI 182,780 (7alpha-[9-[(4,4,5,5,5-pentafluoropentyl]-sulfinyl]nonyl]-estra-1,3,5(10)-triene-3,17beta-diol) and K+ channel blockers, i.e., TEA, glibenclamide, and 4-aminopyridine. Furthermore, the vasodilatory effect of 8 was unaffected by the adenylyl cyclase inhibitor SQ 22536 [9-(tetrahydro-2-furanyl)-9H-purin-6-amine], the guanylyl cyclase inhibitor ODQ [1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one], the protein kinase A inhibitor KT 5720 [(9S,10S,12R)-2,3,9,10,11,12-hexahydro-10-hydroxy-9-methyl-1-oxo-9,12-epoxy-1H-diindolo[1,2,3-fg: 3',2',1'-kl]pyrrolo[3,4-i][1,6]benzodiazocine-10-carboxylic acid hexyl ester], the protein kinase G inhibitor KT 5823 [(9S,10R,12R)-2,3,9,10,11,12-hexahydro-10-methoxy-2,9-dimethyl-1-oxo-9,12-epoxy-1H-diindolo[1,2,3-fg:3',2',1'-kl]pyrrolo[3,4-i][1,6]benzodiazocine-10-carboxylic acid methyl ester], and the p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) inhibitor SB 203580 [4-(4-fluorophenyl)-2-(4-methylsulfinylphenyl)-5-(4-pyridyl)-1H-imidazole]. Western blot analysis demonstrated that 8, unlike E2, raloxifene, and tamoxifen, failed to stimulate p38 MAPK. It is concluded that N,N'-dipropyl-1,2-bis(2,6-dichloro-4-hydroxyphenyl)ethylenediamine induces endothelium-independent relaxation of coronary arteries; the mechanism apparently involves inhibition of L-type Ca2+ channels. The drug may be protective against cardiovascular diseases.
Identification of a novel polymorphism in the 3'UTR of the L-arginine transporter gene SLC7A1: contribution to hypertension and endothelial dysfunction.	Endothelial dysfunction because of reduced nitric oxide bioavailability is a key feature of essential hypertension. We have found that normotensive siblings of subjects with essential hypertension have impaired endothelial function accompanied by altered arginine metabolism.
Exogenous calcitonin gene-related peptide perturbs the direction and length of gubernaculum in capsaicin-treated rats.	Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) released from the genitofemoral nerve (GFN) is proposed to control gubernacular migration to the scrotum during inguinoscrotal descent. As previous studies suggested that both CGRP and androgens are necessary to stimulate gubernacular elongation and proliferation, this study aimed to test whether CGRP perturbed growth of the gubernaculum by exogenous injection in a rat model of GFN blockade with an intact androgen pathway. Sprague-Dawley rats (day 0, n = 34) were injected with capsaicin (sensory neurotixin) or vehicle. CGRP (25 microl of 2 x 10 5 molar concentration) Or castor oil was administered at the umbilicus 24 h later, then every other day thereafter for 10 days. Groups of rats were sacrified on days 8 and 28, and the tip of the gubernaculunx was identified in relation to the scrotum and umbilicus. The length of the processus vaginalis (PV) was measured. In group 1 (capsaicin and CGRP), at 8 days of age (n = 8) the testes were found in the intraabdominal or suprainguinal position in 87.5% (14 testes) and the tip of the gubernaculum was oriented more laterally than normal. However the mean PV length was 5.1 mm, which was shorter than control groups (9-10.8 mm) (P < 0.001, t-test). On the other hand, at day 28, the testes were located proximal to the internal inguinal ring in 66.7% (8 testes) with their gubernacular tip oriented in part towards the umbilicus. The mean of the PV length was 12.2 mm, which was significantly decreased compared to other groups (P < 0.001, t-test). In group 2 (capsaicin and castor oil) and group 3 (vehicle and CGRP) the testes of one rat in each group at 28 days of age were located in the abdomen at the internal inguinal ring with the distal gubernacular attachment lying free and directed caudally towards the scrotum, while the rest of the testes were found in the normal location. These findings suggest that chemical interruption of sensory nerves followed by CGRP injections in rats can perturb gubernacular growth and can change the direction of migration.
Disruption of endothelial caveolae is associated with impairment of both NO- as well as EDHF in acetylcholine-induced relaxation depending on their relative contribution in different vascular beds.	Caveolae represent an important structural element involved in endothelial signal-transduction. The present study was designed to investigate the role of caveolae in endothelium-dependent relaxation of different vascular beds. Caveolae were disrupted by cholesterol depletion with filipin (4x10(-6) g L(-1)) or methyl-beta-cyclodextrin (MCD; 1x10(-3) mol L(-1)) and the effect on endothelium-dependent relaxation was studied in rat aorta, small renal arteries and mesenteric arteries in the absence and presence of L-NMMA. The contribution of NO and EDHF, respectively, to total relaxation in response to acetylcholine (ACh) gradually changed from aorta (71.2+/-6.1% and 28.8+/-6.1%), to renal arteries (48.6+/-6.4% and 51.4+/-6.4%) and to mesenteric arteries (9.1+/-4.0% and 90.9+/-4.1%). Electron microscopy confirmed filipin to decrease the number of endothelial caveolae in all vessels studied. Incubation with filipin inhibited endothelium-dependent relaxation induced by cumulative doses of ACh (3x10(-9)-10(-4) mol L(-1)) in all three vascular beds. In aorta, treatment with either filipin or MCD only inhibited the NO component, whereas in renal artery both NO and EDHF formation were affected. In contrast, in mesenteric arteries, filipin treatment only reduced EDHF formation. Disruption of endothelial caveolae is associated with the impairment of both NO and EDHF in acetylcholine-induced relaxation.
Endothelial dysfunction and compromised eNOS/Akt signaling in the thoracic aorta during the progression of Marfan syndrome.	Aortic complications account for the major mortality in Marfan syndrome (MFS), a connective tissue disorder caused by mutations in FBN1 encoding fibrillin-1. We hypothesized that MFS impaired endothelial function and nitric oxide (NO) production in the aorta.
Smooth muscle mediates circumferential conduction of hyperpolarization and relaxation to focal endothelial cell activation in large coronary arteries.	Longitudinal conduction of endothelium-dependent vasodilatation is mediated by intercellular spread of hyperpolarization via gap junctions along the endothelium. If similar electrical signals from the endothelium conduct around the circumference of arteries via smooth muscle cells, then, both longitudinal and circumferential spread of such signals would make it possible for a wide annulus of a large blood vessel like an epicardial coronary artery to dilate to local stimuli. To examine this in vitro, we developed a dual-chambered organ bath in which both membrane potential and force are independently determined in endothelium-intact and -denuded regions of a single annulus of artery. Hyperpolarizations and relaxations to endothelium-dependent vasodilators like bradykinin (BK) and substance P in smooth muscle cells immediately beneath the local endothelium-intact region (local responses) are conducted via smooth muscle cells around the circumference of the artery. The local relaxation was partially inhibited by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N(G)-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG), and subsequently abolished by further treatment with a combination of two characteristic inhibitors of endothelium-dependent hyperpolarization-the Ca2+ -activated potassium channel (KCa) channel inhibitors, apamin and charybdotoxin. The conducted hyperpolarizations and relaxations to BK were unaffected by L-NOARG, but were abolished by apamin and charybdotoxin. In conclusion, these studies demonstrate for the first time that NO acts only as a local vasodilator, whereas endothelium-dependent hyperpolarization (EDH) causes local and remote vasodilatation in large coronary arteries. We propose that such a remote EDH-dependent signalling mechanism compensates for the loss of the local NO-dependent vasodilatation in diseased arteries.
Determinants of 4 alpha-phorbol sensitivity in transmembrane domains 3 and 4 of the cation channel TRPV4.	TRPV4, a Ca(2+)-permeable member of the vanilloid subgroup of the transient receptor potential (TRP) channels, is activated by cell swelling and moderate heat (>27 degrees C) as well as by diverse chemical compounds including synthetic 4 alpha-phorbol esters, the plant extract bisandrographolide A, and endogenous epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs; 5,6-EET and 8,9-EET). Previous work identified a tyrosine residue located in the first half of putative transmembrane segment 3 (TM3) as a crucial determinant for the activation of TRPV4 by its most specific agonist 4 alpha-phorbol 12,13-didecanoate (4 alpha-PDD), suggesting that 4 alpha-PDD interacts with the channel through its transmembrane segments. To obtain insight in the 4 alpha-PDD-binding site and in the mechanism of ligand-dependent TRPV4 activation, we investigated the consequences of specific point mutations in TM4 on the sensitivity of the channel to different chemical and physical stimuli. Mutations of two hydrophobic residues in the central part of TM4 (Leu(584) and Trp(586)) caused a severe reduction of the sensitivity of the channel to 4 alpha-PDD, bisandrographolide A, and heat, whereas responses to cell swelling, arachidonic acid, and 5,6-EET remained unaffected. In contrast, mutations of two residues in the C-terminal part of TM4 (Tyr(591) and Arg(594)) affected channel activation of TRPV4 by all stimuli, suggesting an involvement in channel gating rather than in interaction with agonists. Based on a comparison of the responses of WT and mutant TRPV4 to 4 alpha-PDD and different 4 alpha-phorbol esters, we conclude that the length of the fatty acid moiety determines the ligand binding affinity and propose a model for the interaction between 4 alpha-phorbol esters and the TM3/4 region of TRPV4.
Dehydroepiandrosterone upregulates soluble guanylate cyclase and inhibits hypoxic pulmonary hypertension.	It has been reported that dehydroepiandrosterone is a pulmonary vasodilator and inhibits chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension. Additionally, dehydroepiandrosterone has been shown to improve systemic vascular endothelial function. Thus, we hypothesized that chronic treatment with dehydroepiandrosterone would attenuate hypoxic pulmonary hypertension by enhancing pulmonary artery endothelial function.
To dip or not to dip: on the physiology of blood pressure decrease during nocturnal sleep in healthy humans.	That sleep is accompanied by a blood pressure decrease is well known; however, the underlying physiology deserves further investigation. The present study examines in healthy subjects 2 main questions: is this dipping actively evoked? and what are the consequences of nondipping for daytime blood pressure? Nocturnal blood pressure was extrinsically elevated in 12 sleeping subjects to mean daytime values by continuously infused phenylephrine. This nondipping significantly lowered morning blood pressure during rest and 3 hours after resuming physical activity compared with a control condition (isotonic saline). Neither muscle sympathetic nerve activity nor sensitivity of alpha-adrenoceptors was reduced. However, the set point for initiation of regulatory responses through the baroreflex was clearly shifted toward lower blood pressure levels. Our results support the hypothesis of an actively regulated central mechanism for blood pressure resetting and set point consolidation of the baroreflex during nighttime sleep. This is suggested by the fact that extrinsically induced nondipping induces sustained decrease in blood pressure during the following morning through an actively lowered baroreflex set point.
Increased dilator response to nitrate and decreased flow-mediated dilatation in migraineurs.	It has been known that in a migraine attack intracranial and extracranial arteries on the headache side dilate and when the migraine attack has subsided, the intracranial arteries show segmental narrowing. We hypothesized that patients with migraine had an underlying systemic vasomotion abnormality and there might be an increased nitrate-mediated vasodilatory response in the brachial artery of migraineurs. Accordingly we aimed to measure endothelium dependent and independent functions of brachial artery in migraineurs and healthy subjects.
Apelin modulates aortic vascular tone via endothelial nitric oxide synthase phosphorylation pathway in diabetic mice.	The apelin receptor APJ is a putative receptor protein related to angiotensin (Ang) type 1 receptor. The apelin-APJ system has been implicated in diabetes, but its role in the diabetic vasculature and the mechanisms involved remain unclear. Our aim here was to explore the regulatory role of apelin in the aortic vascular tone in diabetic mice.
Effects of kallidinogenase on ischemic changes induced by repeated intravitreal injections of endothelin-1 in rabbit retina.	Repeated intravitreal injections of endothelin-1 (ET-1) lead to alterations in the visually evoked potentials (VEPs) and loss of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in rabbits. The purpose of this study was to determine whether kallidinogenase can offset the alterations induced by ET-1.
Elevated glucose attenuates agonist- and flow-stimulated endothelial nitric oxide synthase activity in microvascular retinal endothelial cells.	Impaired vasoactive release of opposing vasodilator and vasoconstrictor mediators due to endothelial dysfunction is integral to the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy. The aim of this study was to determine the effect of hyperglycemia on the expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) and the release of nitric oxide (NO) in bovine microvascular retinal endothelial cells (BRECs) under both static (basal and acetylcholine stimulated) and flow (laminar shear stress [10 dynes/cm2 and pulsatile flow 0.3 to 23 dynes/cm2) conditions using a laminar shear apparatus and an in vitro perfused transcapillary culture system. The activity and expression of eNOS, measured by nitrate levels and immunoblot, respectively, were determined following exposure of BRECs to varying concentrations of glucose and mannitol (0 to 25 mM). Under static conditions the expression of eNOS decreased significantly following exposure to increasing concentrations of glucose when compared to osmotic mannitol controls and was accompanied by a significant dose-dependent decrease in nitrate levels in conditioned medium. The acetylcholine stimulated increase in NO release (2.0 +/- 0.3-fold) was significantly reduced by 55% +/- 5% and 65% +/- 4.5% following exposure to 16 and 25 mM glucose, respectively, when compared to osmotic controls. In parallel studies, glucose significantly inhibited both laminar shear stress and pulsatile flow-induced activity when compared to mannitol. We conclude that hyperglycemia impairs agonist- and flow-dependent release of NO in retinal microvascular endothelial cells and may thus contribute to the vascular endothelial dysfunction and impaired autoregulation of diabetic retinopathy.
Angiostatin does not contribute to skeletal muscle microvascular rarefaction with low nitric oxide bioavailability.	Ischemic angiogenesis is dependent on vascular nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability, in part by reducing matrix metalloproteinases (MMP)-2 and -9 activity and angiostatin production. In the metabolic syndrome, the authors have demonstrated that reduced skeletal muscle microvessel density (SKMVD) was correlated with chronic reductions in NO bioavailability, but these relationships are complicated by the presence of the multiple pathological states inherent in the metabolic syndrome. Given this, the authors hypothesized that low NO bioavailability could reduce SKMVD in normal rats, independent of any systemic pathologies associated with the metabolic syndrome, and that this would be correlated with increased angiostatin production.
Update on therapies for pulmonary hypertension.	Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is often difficult to diagnose and many different disorders may result in elevated pulmonary arterial pressure requiring therapy. Left untreated, PH usually has a dismal prognosis culminating in right ventricular failure and death. Besides conservative therapeutic strategies such as anticoagulation and diuretics, the past decade has brought remarkable improvements in therapy for the major classification groups of PH (pulmonary arterial and chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension), based on a better understanding of the underlying pathobiology. Selection of appropriate therapies for PH remains complex and requires familiarity with the disease process, evidence from clinical trials, complicated drug delivery systems, dosing regimens, side effects and complications. Despite these advances, none of the current therapeutic pathways is curative. This article discusses the currently available drug therapy for PH, considers the surgical option for some patients with chronic thromboembolic disease, and looks forward to possible new forms of therapy emerging from bench research.
Essential role of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in vascular effects of erythropoietin.	Erythropoietin (EPO) fosters tissue oxygenation by stimulating erythropoiesis. More recently, EPO has been recognized as a tissue-protective cytokine. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that endothelial NO synthase (eNOS) plays a key role in the vascular protective effect of EPO. A murine model of wire-induced injury of carotid artery was used to examine the effect of EPO on endothelial repair and arterial wall architecture. Recombinant human EPO (1000 U/kg, SC, biweekly) was administered for 2 weeks in wild-type and eNOS-deficient mice after which reactivity of isolated carotid arteries was studied in vitro, and the vasculature was histologically assessed. Injured arteries exhibited impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxations to acetylcholine (P<0.05). This was associated with increased medial cross-sectional area (P<0.05). EPO upregulated expression of phosphorylated Ser1177-eNOS and normalized the vasodilator response to acetylcholine (P<0.05). Furthermore, EPO prevented the injury-induced increase in medial cross-sectional area (P<0.05). The vascular protective effects of EPO were abolished in eNOS-deficient mice. Most notably, EPO significantly increased systolic blood pressure and enhanced medial thickening of injured carotid arteries in eNOS-deficient mice (P<0.05). Our results demonstrate that EPO prevents aberrant remodeling of the injured carotid artery. The protective effects of EPO are critically dependent on activation of eNOS.
Effect of adenosine receptor subtypes stimulation on mixed lymphocyte reaction.	The cell-to-cell interaction through binding of intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 on monocytes to their ligands lymphocyte function-associated antigen (LFA)-1 on T-cells plays important roles in cytokine production and T-cell proliferation. Interleukin (IL)-18, which plasma levels are elevated in patients during acute rejection following organ transplantation, induces the expression of ICAM-1 on monocytes, production of interferon (IFN)-gamma and IL-12 and lymphocyte proliferation during human mixed lymphocyte reaction. Activation of the adenosine A(2A) receptor on during reperfusion of various tissues has been found to markedly reduce ischemia-reperfusion injury. In the present study, we examined the effect of adenosine at increasing concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 100 microM on the IL-18-enhanced expression of ICAM-1, production of IFN-gamma and IL-12 and lymphocyte proliferation during human mixed lymphocyte reaction. Adenosine inhibited the IL-18-initiated immune responses. The IC(50) values of adenosine for inhibition of the IL-18-enhanced ICAM-1 expression, IFN-gamma production and lymphocyte proliferation were 20 microM, respectively. The actions of adenosine depended on the stimulation of adenosine A(2A) receptor. An inhibitor of protein kinase A (PKA) at 100 microM inhibited the actions of adenosine, suggesting that PKA might be involved in the actions of adenosine. On the other hand, the stimulation of adenosine A(1) and A(3) receptor blocked the actions of adenosine A(2A) receptor stimulation. These results suggest that adenosine inhibits the immune responses during mixed lymphocyte reaction via adenosine A(2A) receptor.
Inhibitory effects of prostaglandin E1 on activation of hepatic stellate cells in rabbits with schistosomiasis.	Liver fibrosis is the result of an imbalance between synthesis and degradation of extracellular matrix proteins of the liver. At the cellular and molecular levels, this progressive process is mainly characterized by activation of hepatic stellate cells (HSCs). Schistosoma japonica is one of the most prevalent causes of liver fibrosis in China. It is characterized by hepatocyte damage, inflammation, and chronic parasite egg-induced granuloma formation leading to fibrosis. This study aimed to investigate the inhibitory effects of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on activation of HSCs and the alteration of type I and III collagen in rabbits with schistosomiasis. The study may promote the clinical application of praziquantel and PGE1 as a combined therapy to reverse hepatic fibrosis caused by schistosomiasis.
Increased insulin sensitivity and reduced micro and macro vascular disease induced by 2-deoxy-D-glucose during metabolic syndrome in obese JCR: LA-cp rats.	The metabolic syndrome, characterized by obesity, insulin resistance and dyslipidemia, is a major cause of cardiovascular disease. The origins of the syndrome have been hypothesized to lie in continuous availability of energy dense foods in modern societies. In contrast, human physiology has evolved in an environment of sporadic food supply and frequent food deprivation. Intermittent food restriction in rats has previously been shown to lead to reduction of cardiovascular risk and a greater life span. The non-metabolizable glucose analogue, 2-deoxy-D-glucose (2-DG) is taken up by cells and induces pharmacological inhibition of metabolism of glucose. We hypothesized that intermittent inhibition of glucose metabolism, a metabolic deprivation, may mimic intermittent food deprivation and ameliorate metabolic and pathophysiological aspects of the metabolic syndrome.
Inhibitory effects of coronary vasodilator papaverine on heterologously-expressed HERG currents in Xenopus oocytes.	To characterize the effects of papaverine on HERG channels expressed in Xenopus oocytes as well as cardiac action potential in rabbit ventricular myocytes.
Augmented hyperaemia and reduced tissue injury in response to ischaemia in subjects with the 34C > T variant of the AMPD1 gene.	In patients with coronary artery disease, the 34C > T variant of the adenosine mono-phosphate deaminase gene (AMPD1), encoding a dysfunctional protein, predicts improved survival. We hypothesized that in subjects with this variant allele, ischaemia-induced intracellular adenosine formation is increased, augmenting reactive hyperaemia and ischaemic tolerance.
Ionizing non-fatal whole-body irradiation inhibits Ca2+-dependent K+ channels in endothelial cells of rat coronary artery: possible contribution to depression of endothelium-dependent vascular relaxation.	The goal of this study was to evaluate the influence of ionizing irradiation on large conductance Ca2+-dependent potassium (BKCa) channels in rat coronary endothelial cells.
Definitive role for natriuretic peptide receptor-C in mediating the vasorelaxant activity of C-type natriuretic peptide and endothelium-derived hyperpolarising factor.	C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP) has recently been suggested to represent an endothelium-derived hyperpolarising factor (EDHF) in the mammalian resistance vasculature and, as such, important in the regulation of local blood flow and systemic blood pressure. Additionally, this peptide has been shown to protect against ischaemia-reperfusion injury and inhibits leukocyte and platelet activation. Herein, we use a novel, selective natriuretic peptide receptor-C (NPR-C) antagonist (M372049) to highlight the pivotal contribution of CNP/NPR-C signalling in the EDHF-dependent regulation of vascular tone and investigate the mechanism(s) underlying the release and biological activity of CNP.
The effects of iloprost and vitamin C on kidney as a remote organ after ischemia/reperfusion of lower extremities.	Abdominal aortic surgery can cause ischemic/reperfusion (I/R) injury in not only the lower extremities, but also in the remote organs and tissues such as lungs, kidneys, heart, and liver during abdominal aortic surgery. It can result in mortality and morbidity because of the remote organ injury in early postoperative period. In this study, we investigate the effects of iloprost and vitamin C on the kidney remote organ damage after I/R following abdominal aortic surgery.
Direct effects of lead (Pb2+) on the relaxation of in vitro cultured rat aorta to acetylcholine.	Lead (Pb(2+)) exposure is related to increased blood pressure or hypertension of human or animals. Abnormal vascular relaxant responses of low level Pb(2+) exposed animals were reported by several studies. However, it is difficult to tell whether these effects were induced directly by Pb(2+) or not. In this study we hypothesized that Pb(2+) can directly affect the relaxation of vessels. Male Wistar rat aortae were removed and cultured in PMRI 1640 with 1 ppm Pb(2+) (4.8 microM lead acetate) for 0.5, 6, 12 and 24h, and then their responses to acetylcholine (ACh) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) were examined. After incubated for 24h, the relaxation induced by ACh was significantly decreased in Pb(2+) exposed aortic rings. However, there was not significant difference in relaxation induced by SNP between Pb(2+) exposed and control group. The nitrite in the culture media of aortic rings cultured for 24h, measured with Griess method, was significantly decreased in the Pb(2+) exposed group. The expression of endothelial NOS (eNOS) and isoform NOS (iNOS) in the homogenate of aortic rings cultured for 24h was measured by Western blot. The expression of eNOS of the Pb(2+) exposed group was significantly upregulated compared with that of the control group. However, there was no significant difference in the expression of iNOS in control and Pb(2+) exposed group. In conclusion, Pb(2+) was able to directly affect the relaxation of rat aorta. This effect may have some relation with the lower level of NO in the media, though the expression of eNOS was upregulated.
Effect of mexidol and nitroglycerine on iron-sulfur centers, cytochrome P-450, and nitric oxide formation in liver tissue of experimental animals.	In experiments on mice we studied the effect of individual or combined treatment with mexidol and nitroglycerine on iron-sulfur centers of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, cytochrome P-450 of the endoplasmic reticulum, and nitric oxide formation in the liver tissue. Mexidol had a potent effect on these parameters and protected iron-sulfur centers from oxidation, including that induced by nitroglycerine.
Effect of isosorbide dinitrate on gastric blood flow in rats with liver cirrhosis determined by analyzing gastric blood flow, portal vein pressure and blood gas.	We investigated the effects of isosorbide dinitrate (IDN) on gastric blood flow (GBF), portal venous pressure (PVP) and blood gas of rats with liver cirrhosis (LC) accompanied by portal hypertension. Thirty male Wistar rats (LC in 17 and normal in 13) were used. Before and after IDN administration, GBF, PVP and blood gas in the femoral artery and portal vein were measured. Portal blood oxygen concentration was estimated by calculating the ratio of PO2 in portal blood and that in arterial blood (PpvO2/PaO2) of each rat. The GBF in the LC rats was significantly lower than that in the normal rats. In the LC group, IDN administration significantly increased the GBF. The PpvO2/PaO2 value in the group with LC was significantly lower after IDN administration than that before IDN administration. In the investigation whether changes in PVP or Ppv/PaO2 contributed more to the change in GBF after IDN administration, a significant correlation was found between rates of change in GBF and PpvO2/PaO2 were significantly correlated (r= -0.733, p <0.05). The effect of IDN on changes in the stomach accompanying portal hypertension is mainly attributable to a decrease in preload, which suppresses inflow to the stomach, as reflected by a decrease in PpvO2/ PaO2, rather than to a decrease in afterload on GBF, as reflected by a decrease in PVP.
Mechanisms responsible for the heterogeneous coronary microvascular response to nitroglycerin.	Nitroglycerin dilates large (greater than or equal to 100 microns) but not small coronary arterial microvessels, and a putative metabolite of nitroglycerin, S-nitroso-L-cysteine, has been shown in vitro to dilate both large and small coronary microvessels. Based on this evidence, we tested the hypothesis that the lack of response of small coronary microvessels was due to an inability of small coronary microvessels to convert nitroglycerin into its vasoactive metabolite and examined possible explanations for this phenomenon. We studied left ventricular epicardial microvessels in vivo using video microscopy and stroboscopic epi-illumination in anesthetized, open-chest dogs. Diameters were determined while the epicardium was suffused with nitroglycerin, S-nitroso-L-cysteine, or S-nitroso-D-cysteine (all 10 microM) and nitroglycerin in the presence of L- or D-cysteine (100 microM). None of the agents affected systemic hemodynamics. Nitroglycerin dilated large arterioles (20 +/- 2%) but not small arterioles (1 +/- 1%). Both S-nitroso-L-cysteine and S-nitroso-D-cysteine were potent dilators of all size classes of microvessels. Concomitant application of L-cysteine and nitroglycerin evoked dilation in small microvessels (22 +/- 4%, p less than 0.5 versus nitroglycerin alone) and larger microvessels (27 +/- 6%, p = NS versus nitroglycerin alone). D-Cysteine did not alter the microvascular response to nitroglycerin in either small (7 +/- 4%, p = NS versus nitroglycerin alone) or large (18 +/- 3%, p = NS versus nitroglycerin alone) microvessels. Neither L-cysteine nor D-cysteine had a direct effect on microvascular diameter. These findings suggest that 1) sulfhydryl groups are required for the conversion of nitroglycerin to its vasoactive metabolite; 2) the interaction between nitroglycerin and sulfhydryl residues is a stereospecific process, indicating either an intracellular mechanism or a membrane-associated enzymatic reaction; and 3) a lack of available sulfhydryl groups may be responsible for the lack of response of small coronary arterioles to nitroglycerin.
In vivo endothelial denudation disrupts smooth muscle caveolae and differentially impairs agonist-induced constriction in small arteries.	Experiments were performed to determine the effects of endothelial denudation in vivo on vasoconstrictor responses of mouse tail artery segments in vitro. A sterile wire (70 microm diameter) was inserted into tail arteries of anesthetized mice to mechanically denude the endothelium, and the animals were allowed to recover for 48 hours. The function of pressurized tail artery segments was then studied in vitro. Intimal injury markedly reduced endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine. Constriction evoked by the selective alpha1-adrenoceptor (alpha1-AR) agonist, phenylephrine, was not affected by in vivo endothelial denudation, indicating that the contractile function of vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) was not impaired. However, constriction to the selective alpha2-AR agonist UK14304 or to endothelin-1 was significantly inhibited. Confocal microscopy of intact tail arteries localized caveolin-1 to punctuate structures, arranged in rows on or close to the surface of VSMCs. After in vivo endothelial denudation, this pattern was disrupted and caveolin-1 was localized to intracellular sites. When VSMC caveolae were disrupted in control arteries using the cholesterol acceptor methyl-beta-cyclodextrin, there was a similar impairment in constriction to endothelin-1 or alpha2-AR stimulation, but not alpha1-AR activation. These results suggest that intimal injury to small cutaneous arteries disrupts VSMC surface caveolae and selectively impairs constriction to stimuli that are dependent on these structures for signaling.
Nitric oxide-independent stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase with BAY 41-2272 in cardiovascular disease.	The nitric oxide (NO)-soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC)-cyclic 3',5'-guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) pathway plays an important role in cardiovascular regulation by promoting vasodilation and inhibiting vascular smooth muscle cell growth, platelet aggregation, and leukocyte adhesion. In pathophysiological states with endothelial dysfunction this signaling pathway is impaired. Activation of sGC has traditionally been achieved with nitrovasodilators; however, these drugs are associated with the development of tolerance and potentially deleterious cGMP-independent actions. In this review the actions of BAY 41-2272, the prototype of a new class of NO-independent sGC stimulators, in cardiovascular disease models is discussed. BAY 41-2272 binds to a regulatory site on the alpha-subunit of sGC and stimulates the enzyme synergistically with NO. BAY 41-2272 had antihypertensive actions and attenuated remodeling in models of systemic arterial hypertension. It also unloaded the heart in experimental congestive heart failure. BAY 41-2272 reduced pulmonary vascular resistance in acute and chronic experimental pulmonary arterial hypertension. Furthermore, BAY 41-2272 inhibited platelet aggregation in vitro and leukocyte adhesion in vivo. These findings make direct sGC stimulation with BAY 41-2272 a promising new therapeutic strategy for cardiovascular diseases and warrant further studies. Finally, the significance of the novel NO- and heme-independent sGC activator BAY 58-2667, which activates two forms of NO-insensitive sGC, is briefly discussed.
Comparative effects of melatonin and vitamin E in restoring aortic relaxation in pancreatectomized rats.	In a previous study we reported the efficacy of melatonin to restore the decreased relaxation response to acetylcholine (ACh) or to sodium nitroprusside (SNP) in aortic rings of rats turned hyperglycemic by subtotal pancreatectomy. The effect was amplified by pre-incubation in a high (44 mmol/l) glucose solution, a situation that resulted in oxidative stress. We hereby compare the effect of another antioxidant, vitamin E, with that of melatonin on ACh response in intact aortic rings or on SNP response in endothelium-denuded aortic rings obtained from pancreatectomized or sham-operated rats. Dose-response curves to ACh or SNP were performed in the presence or absence of melatonin or vitamin E (10-5 mol/1) in 10 or 44 mmol/1 glucose medium. Melatonin was more effective than vitamin E in restoring ACh- or SNP-induced relaxation of aortic rings in a high glucose medium. The differences between the two antioxidants may rely on the ability of melatonin to diffuse readily into intracellular compartments.
ATP-induced relaxation of porcine retinal arterioles depends on the perivascular retinal tissue and acts via an adenosine receptor.	Purinergic compounds and cyclooxygenase inhibitors are involved in the tone regulation of isolated retinal arterioles in vitro, but it is unknown whether the perivascular retinal tissue influences these effects.
Bradykinin induced sustained anti-adrenergic actions in guinea pig heart muscle involves PKC.	Adenosine attenuates the effect of beta-adrenergic stimulation upon contractile force, both when present during beta-adrenergic stimulation and for a period after washout of adenosine. Protein kinase C (PKC) mediates the sustained effect. The present study investigated if bradykinin (500 nM) could induce anti-beta-adrenergic actions.
Trimetazidine improves endothelial dysfunction in chronic heart failure: an antioxidant effect.	To determine whether trimetazidine (TMZ) improves the endothelium-dependent relaxation (EDR) in chronic heart failure (CHF) and whether this effect is associated with its antioxidant properties.
Measurement of flow-mediated vasodilation of the brachial artery: a comparison of measurements in the seated and supine positions.	Measurement of flow-mediated vasodilation (FMD) is used to assess endothelial function in humans and according to the guidelines, subjects must remain supine during the study. However, measurement of FMD while seated would be more comfortable and convenient for patients, so the purpose of this study was to determine the effect of the patient's position on FMD results.
Polymorphisms in the human soluble epoxide hydrolase gene EPHX2 linked to neuronal survival after ischemic injury.	Single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the human EPHX2 gene have recently been implicated in susceptibility to cardiovascular disease, including stroke. EPHX2 encodes for soluble epoxide hydrolase (sEH), an important enzyme in the metabolic breakdown of arachidonic acid-derived eicosanoids referred to as epoxyeicosatrienoic acids (EETs). We previously demonstrated that EETs are protective against ischemic cell death in culture. Therefore, we tested the hypothesis that polymorphisms in the human EPHX2 gene alter sEH enzyme activity and affect neuronal survival after ischemic injury in vitro. Human EPHX2 mutants were recreated by site-directed mutagenesis and fused downstream of TAT protein transduction domain. Western blot analysis and immunocytochemistry staining revealed high-transduction efficiency of human TAT-sEH variants in rat primary cultured cortical neurons, associated with increased metabolism of 14,15-EET to corresponding 14,15-dihydroxyeicosatrienoic acid. A human variant of sEH with Arg103Cys amino acid substitution, previously demonstrated to increase sEH enzymatic activity, was associated with increased cell death induced in cortical neurons by oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD) and reoxygenation. In contrast, the Arg287Gln mutation was associated with reduced sEH activity and protection from OGD-induced neuronal cell death. We conclude that sequence variations in the human EPHX2 gene alter susceptibility to ischemic injury and neuronal survival in a manner linked to changes in the hydrolase activity of the enzyme. The findings suggest that human EPHX2 mutations may in part explain the genetic variability in sensitivity to ischemic brain injury and stroke outcome.
Transport function of lymph nodes in body antiorthostatic posture]	The spontaneous contractile activity of isolated lymph nodes and the lymph flow from intestine lymphatic vessel in antiorthostatic posture of rats with an inclination angle of 30 degrees during 7-14 days, was decreased. Contractions of the rat lymph nodes in response to actions of adrenaline, acetylcholine and histamine were diminished. There are changes of biochemical components of lymph and blood plasma with simultaneous decrease of the blood plasma volume. It is concluded that the lymphatic system on antiorthostatic posture plays the compensatory role with the purpose of stabilization of homeostasis in the brain.
Keeping your patient hemo dynamically stable.	Follow this guide to use vasoactive medications safely in a medical/surgical unit.
The effect of mode of delivery on placental chorionic plate vascular reactivity.	To determine whether delivery mode influences placental chorionic plate arterial and venous vascular reactivity.
Assessment of heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) activity in the cavernous tissues of sildenafil citrate-treated rats.	To assess heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) activity in the cavernous tissue of sildenafil citrate-treated rats.
Increased expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase and caveolin-1 in the aorta of rats with isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy.	Isoproterenol-induced cardiac hypertrophy is associated with increased expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase in the aorta but without signs of improved endothelial function. The aim was to examine the hypothesis that increased expression of eNOS allosteric inhibitor caveolin-1 could be associated with unimproved endothelium-dependent relaxations. Rats received isoproterenol (5 mg/kg body mass, i.p., n = 13) or its vehicle (n = 14) during 1 week. Systolic blood pressure (SBP) and heart rate (HR) were measured by the tail-cuff method. Expression of eNOS and caveolin-1 was measured using immunoblotting analysis. Relaxations of isolated aorta to acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside were evaluated ex vivo. After 1 week of isoproterenol administration, basal SBP and HR were decreased (SBP 110 +/- 3 vs. 126 +/- 3 mmHg, p < 0.05; HR 342 +/- 8 vs. 366 +/- 6 beats/min, p < 0.05). Isoproterenol increased the mass of the left ventricle (+33% +/- 4% vs. control; p < 0.05) and right ventricle (+40% +/- 9%; p < 0.05). Isoproterenol administration increased the expression of eNOS (+53% +/- 12%; p < 0.05) and caveolin-1 (+54% +/- 20%, p < 0.05) in the aorta. Relaxation of isolated aorta to acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside showed a trend towards a worsened endothelial function and a lower sensitivity to exogenous NO. Thus, 1 week of isoproterenol administration led to increased eNOS expression in the aorta without amelioration of endothelial vasorelaxation function. Concomitant increase in caveolin-1 expression may be responsible for this paradox.
Nitroglycerin induces late preconditioning against arrhythmias but not stunning in conscious sheep.	Nitroglycerin, a nitric oxide donor, induces late preconditioning against stunning by short ischemia-reperfusion periods. The study purpose was to assess similar nitroglycerin protection against stunning and arrhythmias produced by prolonged reversible ischemia.
Nitric oxide generation by NO donors is enhanced following balloon injury in the porcine coronary artery.	Vasospasm is a complication of cardiological procedures such as balloon angioplasty and may be related to vascular oxidant stress. Although nitric oxide donor drugs are often administered to prevent vasospasm, the response to these drugs in balloon-injured arteries has not been studied. Pig coronary arteries were balloon-injured in vitro and relaxations to nitric oxide (NO)-donating and NO-independent vasodilators studied. Generation of superoxide in response to injury was assayed using dihydroethidium. NO formation on addition of the NO donor drugs was studied using an amperometric sensor. Expression of nitrotyrosine, a peroxynitrite marker, was probed using immunocytochemistry. In vitro injury enhanced sensitivity to the NO donors SNAP and SpermineNONOate but blunted the response to isoprenaline or chromakalim. With both donors, NO formation was significantly enhanced in the presence of an injured vessel. Vascular superoxide generation was also increased throughout the vessel wall and a small increase in nitrotyrosine was detected in the injured vessel media following addition of SNAP. In conclusion, injured vessels were more sensitive to NO donors and this appears to be due to enhanced NO generation by the donor molecule. Increased formation of peroxynitrite within the injured vessel may contribute to the enhanced relaxation in injured vessels.
Evaluation of tissue-engineered vascular autografts.	This study evaluated the endothelial function and mechanical properties of tissue-engineered vascular autografts (TEVAs) constructed with autologous mononuclear bone marrow cells (MN-BMCs) and a biodegradable scaffold using a canine inferior vena cava (IVC) model. MN-BMCs were obtained from a dog and seeded onto a biodegradable tubular scaffold consisting of polyglycolide fiber and poly(L-lactide-co-epsilon-caprolactone) sponge. This scaffold was implanted in the IVC of the same dog on the day of surgery. TEVAs were analyzed biochemically, biomechanically, and histologically after implantation. When TEVAs were explanted and stimulated with acetylcholine at 1 month, they produced nitrates and nitrites dose dependently. N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methylester significantly inhibited these reactions. With stimulation by acetylcholine, factor VIII-positive cells of TEVAs produced endothelial nitric oxide synthase proteins, and the ratio of endothelial nitric oxide synthase/s17 mRNA was similar among native IVC and TEVAs 1 and 3 months after implantation. TEVAs had biochemical properties and wall thickness similar to those of native IVC at 6 months after implantation, and tolerated venous pressure well without any problems such as calcification. The number of inflammatory cells in TEVAs and the ratio of CD4/s17 mRNA decreased significantly with time. These results indicate that TEVAs are a biocompatible material with functional endothelial cells and biomechanical properties and do not have unwanted side effects.
Study of endothelium-dependent blood oscillations in the human skin microcirculatory bed]	Cutaneous microcirculation parameters were studied with laser Doppler flowmetry in healthy volunteers. To investigate endothelial-dependent peripheral blood flow oscillations the iontophoresis of 1% acetylcholine solution was carried out. To estimate the contribution of rhythmical components in blood flow signal the continuous wavelet-transform spectral analysis was used. To reveal correlation between microcirculation parameters under study the correlation analysis was used. The microcirculation index was shown to be the factor producing cross-correlation dependences. The only positive significant correlation between the blood flow oscillation amplitude in the range of endothelial activity normalized to mean microcirculation index at rest and maximal microcirculation index during the iontophoresis of acetylcholine was revealed.
The association between angiotensin II-induced free radical generation and membrane fluidity in neutrophils of patients with metabolic syndrome.	Angiotensin II (Ang II) is able to induce free radical generation in neutrophils, which is more elevated in neutrophils of patients with hypercholesterolemia (HC). In addition, the signal processing through angiotensin I (Ang I) receptors is altered. In present study, we compared the Ang II-triggered free radical generation of neutrophils obtained from patients with relatively isolated forms of metabolic syndrome (MS) with membrane-bound cholesterol content and membrane fluidity. We determined the enhancement of Ang II-induced superoxide anion and leukotriene C(4) (LTC(4)) generation, membrane fluidity and cell-bound cholesterol content of neutrophils obtained from 12 control subjects, 11 patients with obesity (Ob), 10 patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (t2-DM) and 12 patients with HC. The alteration of signal processing was studied after preincubation with different inhibiting drugs. Superoxide anion, LTC(4) production and membrane rigidity were increased in the following order: control < Ob < t2-DM < HC. Both Ang II-induced superoxide anion and LTC(4) generation were decreased in control cells by pertussis toxin and fluvastatin (Flu), whereas in each patient group, mepacrin, verapamil and Flu were effective, suggesting alterations in signal pathways, which may be attributed to isoprenylation. The enhancement of superoxide anion and LTC(4) generation correlated significantly with membrane rigidity, independently from the experimental groups and membrane-bound cholesterol content. Membrane rigidity of neutrophils, obtained from patients with MS, plays a role in Ang II-induced free radical generation independent of intracellular cholesterol homeostasis.
Protective effect of puerarin on endothelial dysfunction of heat shock protein 60 induced specific immunity in apolipoprotein E-null mice]	To investigate the influence of endothelial dysfunction induced by inoculated dendritic cells (DCs) loaded heat shock protein 60 (HSP60) in apolipoprotein (Apo) E-null mice, and the effect of Puerarin on it.
Pulmonary hypertension: pathogenesis and management.	Notable progress has been achieved in our understanding of the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension, in particular the role of vasodilators, vasoconstrictors and the intracellular signaling pathways, cytokines, chemokines and growth factors involved. A comprehensive history and clinical examination is mandatory in the assessment and determination of the cause of pulmonary hypertension. This should be complemented by a rationale approach to investigation. Treatment of secondary pulmonary hypertension involves targeting the underlying cause. General measures include oxygen therapy and judicious use of diuretics in patients with overt right heart failure. Newer therapies that have been developed for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary hypertension include prostanoids, modulators of vascular remodelling such as bosentan and its analogues and PGE-5 inhibitors such as sildenafil. New therapies are likely to become available in the future as our understanding of the pathogenesis of pulmonary hypertension evolves.
Nifedipine: a novel vasodilator]	Nifedipine was synthesized by Bayer Germany in 1966 and considered for clinical use as a coronary vasodilator in patients with angina pectoris. Japanese investigators played a great part in the pre-clinical and clinical development of nifedipine. Professor Hashimoto demonstrated that nifedipine could increase coronary blood flow even in extremely low dosages, and Professor Kimura found that nifedipine is highly efficacious in preventing anginal attacks in patients with angina pectoris, particularly those with variant form of angina. In early trials it was noted that nifedipine decreased blood pressure in patients with angina pectoris and clinical research by Professor Murakami established a role for nifedipine in the treatment of hypertension. As a prototype L-type calcium (Ca2+) channel antagonist, nifedipine has contributed a great deal to our understanding of the pathophysiological roles of Ca2+ channels in cardiovascular disorders.
Analysis of pulmonary and systemic vascular responses to cromakalim, an activator of K+ATP channels.	Cardiovascular and pulmonary responses to cromakalim, a member of a novel class of antihypertensive agents that open ATP-sensitive K+ (K+ATP) channels, were investigated in the anesthetized cat. Intravenous injections of cromakalim in doses of 30-300 micrograms/kg decreased arterial pressure (AP), pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP), and increased cardiac output (CO), while producing small changes in right and left atrial pressures. Pulmonary and systemic vascular resistances were decreased and vasodilator responses to cromakalim were blocked by glybenclamide, a K+ATP channel-blocking agent. The low dose of cromakalim caused a reflex increase in heart rate (HR) and right ventricular contractile force (RVCF), whereas the high dose decreased HR and RVCF. Under constant-flow conditions the K+ATP channel opener caused dose-dependent decreases in hindquarters perfusion pressure, and when tone was elevated in the pulmonary vascular bed, dose-dependent decreases in pulmonary lobar arterial perfusion pressure. Hindquarters and pulmonary lobar vasodilator responses to cromakalim were inhibited in a specific manner by glybenclamide. The present data show that cromakalim has significant vasodilator activity in both the systemic and pulmonary vascular beds and suggest that responses to this agent result from activation of glybenclamide-sensitive K+ATP channels. These data show that cromakalim can cause substantial decreases in systemic and pulmonary vascular resistance in a dose that has little effect on RVCF.
The dualistic mode of action of the vasodilator drug, nicorandil, differentiated by glibenclamide in 86Rb flux studies in rabbit isolated vascular smooth muscle.	(1) In rabbit isolated aorta, the effects of the antianginal drug, nicorandil, of the K+ channel opener, cromakalim, and of the nitrovasodilator, sodium nitroprusside, on 86Rb efflux and on contractile force were compared. (2) In ion flux studies using 86Rb as a marker of K+ ions, both nicorandil and cromakalim, but not sodium nitroprusside, increased the efflux of 86Rb in non-stimulated preparations. The increase of membrane K+ conductance induced by nicorandil and cromakalim was totally suppressed by 10(-5) mol/l of the sulfonylurea derivative, glibenclamide. (3) The vasoconstrictor drug, noradrenaline (3 x 10(-7) mol/l), effectively increased the rate of 86Rb efflux. This stimulatory response was unaffected by glibenclamide, but was totally inhibited by Ca2+ depletion suggesting that the activation of Ca2(+)-sensitive K+ channels was responsible for this action of noradrenaline. (4) Sodium nitroprusside and nicorandil, the latter in the presence of glibenclamide to suppress the glibenclamide-sensitive stimulatory component on 86Rb efflux, antagonized the noradrenaline-induced increase in 86Rb efflux, while cromakalim in the presence of glibenclamide had no effect. (5) All of the vasodilators relaxed rabbit aortic strips contracted by 10(-7) mol/l noradrenaline in a concentration-dependent manner. (6) The vasodilatory response to cromakalim was antagonized by glibenclamide, whereas the relaxant action of nicorandil and of sodium nitroprusside remained unaffected. (7) These results demonstrate that under particular experimental circumstances, nicorandil can behave in vascular smooth muscle both as an opener of glibenclamide-sensitive K+ channels, and as a directly acting nitrovasodilator which acts via reduction of cellular calcium levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Energetic consequences of substances currently used or recommended for long-term treatment of chronic heart failure.	Vasodilators have been shown to improve hemodynamics of the failing heart as a short-term effect, and to decrease mortality as a long-term result. We, therefore, studied the effects of vasodilators and inotropic agents on myocardial mechanics and energetics in patients with congestive heart failure New York Heart Association (NYHA) classes II-III. In these patients, who underwent routine heart catheterization, myocardial oxygen consumption was measured using the argon method, and LV pressure and geometry were obtained from LV angiography using a Millar microtipped catheter. All data were analyzed for one single heart beat. The best correlation was found between MVO2/beat and the systolic stress-time integral which considers LV pressure, LV wall thickness, and LV geometry. The relation between MVO2/beat and peak systolic wall stress was less relevant. No correlation was found between MVO2/beat and pressure-volume work, dP/dtmax, and mean velocity of circumferential fiber shortening. The intravenous application of nitroprusside and the ACE-inhibitor benazepril decreased both the systolic stress-time integral and the myocardial oxygen consumption in proportion to each other, indicating unchanged economy of myocardial contraction. In contrast, beta 1-agonists and phosphodiesterase inhibitors increased myocardial oxygen consumption independently of changes in the stress-time integral. In conclusion, vasodilators decrease LV pressure and chamber size and thereby proportionally reduce MVO2/beat. The reduction of energy needed for myocardial contraction may partially explain the long-term effects of the ACE-inhibitors and combinations of vasodilators. Pure inotropic substances, especially beta 1-agonists, increase myocardial oxygen consumption with only minor changes of systolic stress-time integral.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Coronary effects of nicorandil in comparison with nitroglycerin in chronic conscious dogs.	The effects of nicorandil (0.2 mg/kg, IV) and nitroglycerin (15 micrograms/kg, IV) on large and small coronary arteries were compared in conscious dogs instrumented with ultrasonic crystals and electromagnetic flow meters in the circumflex coronary artery. Nicorandil dilated the large coronary arteries to the same extent, but with a longer duration of action than nitroglycerin. The small coronary arteries dilated for a very short period of time with nitroglycerin, but dilated markedly with nicorandil. The dilatory action of nicorandil on large coronary arteries persisted after the action on the small coronary artery fell to the control value, indicating that the dilatory action on the large coronary arteries is due to the direct relaxing effect on smooth muscle and is not the result of the flow-dependent effect. The measurement of the plasma concentration of nicorandil after incremental infusions of the agent showed that the dilation of the small coronary artery took place at only a very high level (above 200 ng/ml). On the other hand, the large coronary arteries responded to nicorandil at a much lower concentration (about 100 ng/ml, the clinically effective plasma concentration of nicorandil) than the small coronary resistance arteries. In conclusion, whereas nicorandil possesses a dilatory action on both large and small coronary arteries, in a clinical setting, with a daily dosage of 15-30 mg, part of the beneficial effects of nicorandil may be the result of a dilation of the large coronary arteries and may be due to the fact that a coronary steal phenomenon does not occur after nicorandil administration.
Protective effects of nicorandil on myocardial mitochondria function during ischemia and reperfusion]	Experiment with recirculating blood perfusion device showed that nicorandil 0.15 mmol/L significantly counteracted the harmful effect of ischemic and reperfused injury on the respiratory function of myocardial mitochondria. The oxidative phosphorylation efficiency (ADP/O) was increased 19% (p less than 0.01), the respiratory control rate(RCR) was also increased 40% (p less than 0.01); while the content of myocardial calcium and Ca/Mg were decreased; and the ischemia and reperfusion-induced increase of myocardial water content was abolished as compared with solvent control. The results indicate that nicorandil has protective effect on myocardial mitochondria function during ischemia and reperfusion, which may be the result of blocking Ca2+ from entering the cell and prevent lipid peroxidation.
Endothelin-1-induced vasoconstriction in humans. Reversal by calcium channel blockade but not by nitrovasodilators or endothelium-derived relaxing factor.	The vascular effects of endothelin-1 (ET) in humans were investigated by brachial artery infusions of ET into 25 healthy volunteers. Forearm blood flow increased from a mean +/- SD value of 2.3 +/- 1.5 to 2.5 +/- 1.5 ml/min/100 ml forearm tissue (n = 25, p less than 0.05) in response to low dose (0.5 ng/min/100 ml forearm tissue) ET infusion and decreased to 1.78 +/- 1.3 and 1.1 +/- 0.9 ml/min/100 ml forearm tissue (p less than 0.001) during higher dosages (25 and 50 ng/min/100 ml forearm tissue). Sodium nitroprusside (0.6 micrograms/min/100 ml forearm tissue, n = 6), acetylcholine (16 micrograms/min/100 ml forearm tissue, n = 7), nifedipine (6 micrograms/min/100 ml forearm tissue, n = 6), and verapamil (80 micrograms/min/100 ml forearm tissue, n = 6) were infused alone and in combination with ET to evaluate the interactions between ET-induced vasoconstriction and stimulation of vascular muscle cyclic GMP levels by sodium nitroprusside, release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor by acetylcholine, and blockade of voltage-operated calcium channels by nifedipine and verapamil. Neither the vasodilator nor the vasoconstrictor response to ET was influenced by sodium nitroprusside or acetylcholine. In contrast, both calcium antagonists converted ET-induced vasoconstriction (e.g., delta forearm vascular resistance to ET 50 ng/min/100 ml forearm tissue, 151 +/- 100% and 164 +/- 92% in verapamil and nifedipine groups, respectively) to vasodilation (-35 +/- 12% and -21 +/- 16%, p less than 0.05). Our results demonstrate both ET-induced vasodilation (at low dosages) and vasoconstriction (at high dosages) in resistance vessels of normal humans. Blockade of voltage-operated calcium channels prevented ET-induced vasoconstriction and unmasked the vasodilator effect of high ET dosages. In human resistance vessels, blockade of voltage-operated Ca2+ channels but not cyclic GMP-dependent vasodilation may be an effective tool to inhibit ET-induced vasoconstriction.
Development and mechanism of a specific supersensitivity to nitrovasodilators after inhibition of vascular nitric oxide synthesis in vivo.	The mechanism of the increased sensitivity to nitrovasodilators after removal of endothelial nitric oxide (NO) was investigated in vitro and in vivo. The vasoconstrictor potency of phenylephrine and the force of contraction of rat isolated aortic rings were significantly enhanced after endothelium removal or treatment with inhibitors of endothelial NO synthase. Furthermore, these procedures led to a significant decrease in the basal levels of cGMP in the vascular rings. Moreover, the potency of glyceryl trinitrate (n3Gro) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as relaxing agents and the ability of SNP to induce increases in cGMP in aortic rings were significantly enhanced in those rings denuded of endothelium or treated with the inhibitors. These procedures did not affect the vasodilator actions of isoprenaline or 8-bromo-cGMP. In the anesthetized rat, treatment with the inhibitors enhanced significantly the hypotensive responses to n3Gro without affecting those to isoprenaline. These data indicate that the removal of the basal NO-mediated vasodilator tone in the cardiovascular system leads, at the level of the soluble guanylate cyclase, to a specific supersensitivity to nitrovasodilators in vivo. The existence of such a phenomenon has important implications for understanding the local physiological control of blood flow, its pathological disturbances, and the mechanism of action of nitrovasodilators.
Cell density modulates the decrease of cytosolic free Ca2+ induced by atrial natriuretic hormone, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine and 8-bromo cyclic GMP in cultured rat mesangial cells.	Cyclic GMP-elevating agents, including atrial natriuretic hormone and NO-generating vasodilators, decrease cytosolic free Ca2+ levels in mesangial cells. We have investigated the role of cell density as a modulator of the decrease in cytosolic free Ca2+ induced by the cyclic GMP (cGMP)-elevating vasodilators atrial natriuretic peptide (99-126) [ANP (99-126); 'atriopeptin 28'] and the NO-generating vasodilator S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), in cultured rat mesangial cells. Increasing cell density was significantly correlated with the decrease in cytosolic free Ca2+ induced by ANP (99-126) or SNAP. Moreover, this effect was independent of the cells' proliferative status. ANP (99-126) and SNAP induced greater fold stimulation of cGMP accumulation in high-density cells, but the levels of cGMP elicited by high concentrations of ANP (99-126) or SNAP were similar in high- and low-density cells. 8-Bromo cGMP was more effective in decreasing cytosolic free Ca2+ in high- than in low-density cells, suggesting that the greater effectiveness of ANP (99-126) and SNAP was, in part, due to greater effectiveness of endogenous cGMP in high-density cells. The results document that cell density, but not proliferative status, plays an important role in the modulation of intracellular Ca2+ dynamics in rat mesangial cells by atriopeptins, NO-generating vasodilators and cGMP.
Synergistic actions of nitrovasodilators and isoprenaline on rat aortic smooth muscle.	Previous studies have established that nitrovasodilators potentiate the inhibition of platelet function by activators of adenylyl cyclase, but uncertainty exists as to whether a comparable effect is seen in vascular smooth muscle. We initially studied the effects of the nitrovasodilators, sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), on the relaxation by isoprenaline of rat aortic smooth muscle that had been precontracted by phenylephrine. Concentrations of SNP (0.25 nM) and SIN-1 (30 nM) that relaxed aortic smooth muscle less than 30% alone, caused significant (3-fold) decreases in the IC50 values for isoprenaline. The cAMP phosphodiesterase inhibitors, cilostamide (20 nM) and Ro 20-1724 (10 microM), caused comparable reductions in the IC50 values for isoprenaline. At these concentrations, each of the four compounds also increased the maximum relaxation achieved with isoprenaline. Even more marked synergistic interactions were observed between isoprenaline and either the nitrovasodilators or the cAMP phosphodiesterase inhibitors when these compounds were added simultaneously before contraction of aortic smooth muscle by phenylephrine. Thus, concentrations of SNP (5 nM), SIN-1 (1 microM), cilostamide (1 microM) and Ro 20-1724 (100 microM) that inhibited contraction by less than 30% decreased the IC50 values for isoprenaline by 8- to 10-fold. At the above concentrations, these compounds each caused a supra-additive inhibition of contraction when added with 100 nM isoprenaline. Thus, synergism between nitrovasodilators and isoprenaline, an activator of adenylyl cyclase, could be detected in vascular smooth muscle and was particularly marked when inhibition of contraction was studied. This action of nitrovasodilators resembled that of inhibitors of cAMP phosphodiesterase.
Interactions between alpha-adrenoceptors and adenosine receptors on microvascular smooth muscle.	alpha 2-Adrenoceptor but not alpha 1-adrenoceptor constriction of arterioles is selectively inhibited by tissue acidosis, ischemia, and increased metabolic rate. To further examine neural-local interactions, we studied the effect of adenosine receptor stimulation on alpha 1- or alpha 2-adrenoceptor constriction. Intravital microscopy was used to study large arterioles (133 +/- 3 microns diam; mean +/- SE), small arterioles (16 +/- 1 microns), and large venules (178 +/- 3 microns) of rat cremaster skeletal muscle. Concentration-response (diameter change) curves were obtained for bath-added norepinephrine in the presence of either rauwolscine or prazosin to provide selective alpha 1- and alpha 2-constriction, respectively. The adenosine receptor agonist 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (2.24 x 10(-8) M) significantly attenuated both alpha 1- and alpha 2-constriction by 5- to 20-fold; alpha 1-constriction was three- to fourfold more sensitive than alpha 2-constriction. Similar inhibitory effects were obtained with adenosine (2.24 x 10(-6) M). The adenosine receptor antagonist 8-[4-[N(2-aminoethyl)carbamoylmethoxy]phenyl]-1,3-dipropylxanthine (0.7 microM) reversed the inhibitory effect of adenosine, which implicates extracellular A2 adenosine receptors. Intrinsic tone in large vessels was unaffected by adenosine receptor stimulation but was completely inhibited in small arterioles. These findings suggest that both alpha 2- and especially alpha 1-adrenoceptor constriction and intrinsic tone (of small but not large arterioles) are inhibited by physiologically relevant concentrations of adenosine.
Dilatation in the femoral vascular bed does not cause retrograde relaxation of the iliac artery in the anaesthetized pig.	We tested the hypothesis that dilatation of a feeding artery may be elicited by transmission of a signal through the tissue of the arterial wall from a vasodilated peripheral vascular bed.
Na+/H+ exchanger is required for hyperglycaemia-induced endothelial dysfunction via calcium-dependent calpain.	Recent studies have reported that the calcium-dependent protease calpain is involved in hyperglycaemia-induced endothelial dysfunction and that the Na(+)/H(+) exchanger (NHE) is responsible for an increase in the intracellular calcium (Ca(2+)(i)) concentration in diabetes. We hypothesized that activation of NHE mediates hyperglycaemia-induced endothelial dysfunction via calcium-dependent calpain.
Apocynin-induced vasodilation involves Rho kinase inhibition but not NADPH oxidase inhibition.	The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that NADPH oxidase inhibition with apocynin would lower blood pressure and improve endothelial function in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs). Although apocyin effectively dilated arterial segments in vitro, it failed to lower blood pressure or improve endothelial function. Further experiments were performed in normotensive rats and in NADPH oxidase subunit knock-out mice to test if apocynin-induced vasodilation depends on NADPH oxidase inhibition at all.
Manganese superoxide dismutase and aldehyde dehydrogenase deficiency increase mitochondrial oxidative stress and aggravate age-dependent vascular dysfunction.	Imbalance between pro- and antioxidant species (e.g. during aging) plays a crucial role for vascular function and is associated with oxidative gene regulation and modification. Vascular aging is associated with progressive deterioration of vascular homeostasis leading to reduced relaxation, hypertrophy, and a higher risk of thrombotic events. These effects can be explained by a reduction in free bioavailable nitric oxide that is inactivated by an age-dependent increase in superoxide formation. In the present study, mitochondria as a source of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the contribution of manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD, SOD-2) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH-2) were investigated.
Exercise restores coronary vascular function independent of myogenic tone or hyperglycemic status in db/db mice.	Regulation of coronary function in diabetic hearts is an important component in preventing ischemic cardiac events but remains poorly studied. Exercise is recommended in the management of diabetes, but its effects on diabetic coronary function are relatively unknown. We investigated coronary artery myogenic tone and endothelial function, essential elements in maintaining vascular fluid dynamics in the myocardium. We hypothesized that exercise reduces pressure-induced myogenic constriction of coronary arteries while improving endothelial function in db/db mice, a model of type 2 diabetes. We used pressurized mouse coronary arteries isolated from hearts of control and db/db mice that were sedentary or exercised for 1 h/day on a motorized exercise-wheel system (set at 5.2 m/day, 5 days/wk). Exercise caused a approximately 10% weight loss in db/db mice and decreased whole body oxidative stress, as measured by plasma 8-isoprostane levels, but failed to improve hyperglycemia or plasma insulin levels. Exercise did not alter myogenic regulation of arterial diameter stimulated by increased transmural pressure, nor did it alter smooth muscle responses to U-46619 (a thromboxane agonist) or sodium nitroprusside (an endothelium-independent dilator). Moderate levels of exercise restored ACh-simulated, endothelium-dependent coronary artery vasodilation in db/db mice and increased expression of Mn SOD and decreased nitrotyrosine levels in hearts of db/db mice. We conclude that the vascular benefits of moderate levels of exercise were independent of changes in myogenic tone or hyperglycemic status and primarily involved increased nitric oxide bioavailability in the coronary microcirculation.
Vasoreactivity and histology of the radial artery: comparison of open versus endoscopic approaches.	Radial artery harvesting using the less invasive endoscopic technique involves dissection in a narrow tunnel and may cause an injury or induce vasospasm to the conduit. To assess this hypothesis, radial artery segments harvested endoscopically or conventionally were studied for reactivity and integrity.
Cytochrome P-450 2C9 signaling does not contribute to age-associated vascular endothelial dysfunction in humans.	Oxidative stress impairs endothelium-dependent dilation (EDD) with aging in healthy sedentary adults. Increased cytochrome P-450 2C9 (CYP 2C9) signaling can contribute to oxidative stress-mediated suppression of EDD, but its role in aging is unknown. We hypothesized that inhibition of CYP 2C9 signaling with sulfaphenazole would improve EDD in older, but not young, healthy sedentary adults. At baseline, increases in forearm blood flow (FBF; venous occlusion plethysmography) in response to brachial artery infusions of ACh (1, 2, 4, and 8 microg.100 ml forearm volume(-1).min(-1)), an endothelium-dependent dilator, were smaller in older [n = 14, 63 +/- 1 (SE) yr] than in young (n = 11, 23 +/- 2 yr) adults (P < 0.05), with a reduction in peak FBF of 32% (11.8 +/- 1.7 vs. 17.3 +/- 2.3 ml.100 ml tissue(-1).min(-1)). Infusion of sulfaphenazole at doses that block CYP 2C9 signaling in humans did not affect the FBF responses to ACh in the older (peak FBF = 13.0 +/- 4.3 ml.100 ml tissue(-1).min(-1), P = 0.41) or the young (peak FBF = 17.1 +/- 1.9 ml.100 ml tissue(-1).min(-1), P = 0.55) adults. Coadministration of the nitric oxide inhibitor l-NMMA and sulfaphenazole decreased the FBF response to ACh in young and older subjects (P < 0.05); the effect was smaller in the older subjects, but group differences in EDD remained (P < 0.05). Endothelium-independent dilation assessed with sodium nitroprusside was not different in the young and older subjects. These results provide the first support for the concept that increased CYP 2C9 signaling does not contribute to impairments in EDD with aging in healthy adults.
Puerarin protects PC12 cells against beta-amyloid-induced cell injury.	beta-Amyloid protein (Abeta), a major protein component of brain senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease, is known to be directly responsible for the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and induction of apoptosis. In this study, the protective effect of puerarin, an isoflavone purified from the radix of the Chinese herb Pueraria lobata, on Abeta-induced rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cultures was investigated. Although exposure of PC12 cells to 50 microM Abeta25-35 caused significant viability loss and apoptotic rate increase, pretreatment of the cells with puerarin for 24h reduced the viability loss and apoptotic rate. Puerarin (1 microM) significantly inhibited Abeta25-35-induced apoptosis of PC12 cells. Preincubation of the cell with puerarin also restored the ROS and mitochondrial membrane potential levels that had been altered as a result of Abeta25-35 treatment. Puerarin was also found to increase the Bcl-2/Bax ratio and reduce caspase-3 activation. These results suggest that puerarin could attenuate Abeta25-35-induced PC12 cell injure and apoptosis and could also promote the survival of PC12 cells. Therefore, puerarin may act as an intracellular ROS scavenger, and its antioxidant properties may protect against Abeta25-35-induced cell injury.
p75 neurotrophin receptor regulates agonist-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction.	A member of the TNF receptor family, the p75 neurotrophin receptor (p75(NTR)) has been previously shown to play a role in the regulation of fibrin deposition in the lung. However, the role of p75(NTR) in the regulation of pulmonary vascular tone in the lung is unknown. In the present study, we evaluated the expression of p75(NTR) in mouse pulmonary arteries and the putative role of p75(NTR) in modulating pulmonary vascular tone and agonist responsiveness using wild-type (WT) and p75(NTR) knockout (p75(-/-)) mice. Our data indicated that p75(NTR) is expressed in both smooth muscle and endothelial cells within the pulmonary vascular wall in WT mice. Pulmonary artery rings from p75(-/-) mice exhibited significantly elevated active tension due to endothelin-1-mediated Ca(2+) influx. Furthermore, the contraction due to capacitative Ca(2+) entry (CCE) in response to phenylephrine-mediated active depletion of intracellular Ca(2+) stores was significantly enhanced compared with WT rings. The contraction due to CCE induced by passive store depletion, however, was comparable between WT and p75(-/-) rings. Active tension induced by serotonin, U-46619 (a thromboxane A(2) analog), thrombin, 4-aminopyridine (a K(+) channel blocker), and high extracellular K(+) in p75(-/-) rings was similar to that in WT rings. Deletion of p75(NTR) did not alter pulmonary vasodilation to sodium nitroprusside (a nitric oxide donor). These data suggest that intact p75(NTR) signaling may play a role in modulating pulmonary vasoconstriction induced by endothelin-1 and by active store depletion.
Role of oxidative stress in multiparity-induced endothelial dysfunction.	Multiparity is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease. We tested whether multiparity induces oxidative stress in rat vascular tissue. Coronary arteries and thoracic aorta were isolated from multiparous and age-matched virgin rats. Relaxation to ACh and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) was measured by wire myography. We also tested the effect of the superoxide dismutase mimetic MnTE2PyP (30 microM), the NADPH oxidase inhibitor apocynin (10 microM), and the peroxynitrite scavenger FeTPPs (10 microM) on ACh-mediated relaxation in coronary arteries. Vascular superoxide anion was measured using the luminol derivative L-012 and nitric oxide (NO) generation by the Griess reaction. Multiparity reduced maximal response and sensitivity to ACh in coronary arteries [maximal relaxation (E(max)): multiparous 49+/-3% vs. virgins 95%+/-3%; EC(50): multiparous 135+/-1 nM vs. virgins 60+/-1 nM], and in aortic rings (E(max): multiparous 38+/-3% vs. virgins 79+/-4%; EC(50): multiparous 160+/-2 nM vs. virgins 90+/-3 nM). Coronary arteries from the two groups relaxed similarly to SNP. Superoxide anions formation was significantly higher in both coronary arteries (2.8-fold increase) and aorta (4.1-fold increase) from multiparous rats compared with virgins. In multiparous rats, incubation with MnTE2PyP, apocynin, and FeTPPs improved maximal relaxation to ACh (MnTE2PyP: 74+/-5%; vehicle: 41+/-5%; apocynin: 73+/-3% vs. vehicle: 41+/-3%; FeTPPs: 72+/-3% vs. vehicle: 46+/-3%) and increased sensitivity (EC(50): MnTE2PyP: 61+/-0.5 nM vs. vehicle: 91+/-1 nM; apocynin: 45+/-3 nM vs. vehicle: 91+/-6 nM; FeTPP: 131 +/- 2 nM vs. vehicle: 185+/-1 nM). Multiparity also reduced total nitrate/nitrite levels (multiparous: 2.5+/-2 micromol/mg protein vs. virgins: 7+/-1 micromol/mg protein) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase protein levels (multiparous: 0.53+/-0.1 protein/actin vs. virgins: 1.0+/-0.14 protein/actin). These data suggest that multiparity induces endothelial dysfunction through decreased NO bioavailability and increased reactive oxygen species formation.
Soluble guanylyl cyclase activation by HMR-1766 (ataciguat) in cells exposed to oxidative stress.	Many vascular diseases are characterized by increased levels of ROS that destroy the biological activity of nitric oxide and limit cGMP formation. In the present study, we investigated the cGMP-forming ability of HMR-1766 in cells exposed to oxidative stress. Pretreatment of smooth muscle cells with H(2)O(2) reduced cGMP production stimulated by sodium nitroprusside (SNP) or BAY 41-2272. However, pretreatment with H(2)O(2) significantly increased HMR-1766 responses. Similar results were obtained with SIN-1, menadione, and rotenone. In addition, HMR-1766 was more effective in stimulating heme-free sGC compared with the wild-type enzyme. Interestingly, in cells expressing heme-free sGC, H(2)O(2) inhibited instead of potentiated HMR-1766 responses, suggesting that the ROS-induced enhancement of cGMP formation was heme dependent. Moreover, using truncated forms of sGC, we observed that the NH(2)-terminus of the beta(1)-subunit is required for the action of HMR-1766. Finally, to study tolerance development to HMR-1766, cells were pretreated with this sGC activator and reexposed to HMR-1766 or SNP. Results from these experiments demonstrated lack of tolerance development to HMR-1766 as well as lack of cross-tolerance with SNP. We conclude that HMR-1766 is an improved sGC activator as it has the ability to activate oxidized/heme-free sGC and is resistant to the development of tolerance; these observations make HMR-1766 a promising agent for treating diseases associated with increased vascular tone combined with enhanced ROS production.
Vasorelaxational effects of procyanidins on rabbit aorta in vitro and decreasing arterial blood pressure in vivo]	To study the vasodilation effect of the procyanidin (PC) extracted from grape seeds on rabbit thoracic aortic rings in vitro, decreasing blood pressure in vivo and the possible mechanism.
Antispasmodic effect of hydroalcoholic extract of Thymus vulgaris on the guinea-pig ileum.	The effects of Thymus vulgaris hydroalcoholic extract on the contractile responses of the isolated guinea-pig ileum were investigated. Contraction changes in the terminal ileum of guinea pigs were monitored using a force displacement transducer amplifier connected to a physiograph. Thymus vulgaris extract inhibited the contractile responses in a dose-dependent manner and also decreased the amplitude of peristaltic waves. It is concluded that T. vulgaris has an antispasmodic action on guinea pig ileum by decreasing the amplitudes of the muscle contractions during peristalsis. The EC50 was calculated as 1.7 mg mL(-1). In guinea-pig ileum the extract led to an antispasmodic effect, possibly by affecting the anticholinergic and serotoninergic pathways.
Vasorelaxation caused by cannabinoids: mechanisms in different vascular beds.	Cannabinoids (natural, endogenous and synthetic compounds) produce vasorelaxation in resistance and conduit arteries. Several putative mechanisms have been proposed to explain this effect of cannabinoids. The aim of the present review is to discuss the different mechanisms involved in the vasorelaxant effect of endogenous and synthetic cannabinoids in resistance and conduit arteries. Research on the vascular effects of cannabinoids suggests that the magnitude of the vasorelaxation and the mechanisms involved are not identical in all vascular beds with one or two mechanisms predominating. Either extracellular or intracellular mechanisms are involved. With regard to the former, the stimulation of cannabinoid CB1, CB2 or nonCB1/nonCB2 cannabinoid receptors and the stimulation of vanilloid receptors, transient potential vanilloid receptors, on perivascular nerve endings with the subsequent release of the vasodilator neurotransmitter calcitonin gene-related peptide have been described. With regard to the latter, the main mechanisms implicated include nitric oxide release, metabolism to vasoactive arachidonic metabolites or prostanoid analogues, or endothelium derived hyperpolarising factor release. The knowledge of these mechanisms is crucial to identify new therapeutic targets and to understand the consequences in different vascular beds.
Bradykinin or acetylcholine as vasodilators to test endothelial venous function in healthy subjects.	The evaluation of endothelial function has been performed in the arterial bed, but recently evaluation within the venous system has also been explored. Endothelial function studies employ different drugs that act as endothelium-dependent vasodilatory response inductors.
The action of nitric oxide in the perfused human fetal-placental circulation.	Nitric oxide is thought to be the endogenous endothelium-derived relaxing factor. We investigated the effects of compounds that either generate nitric oxide intracellularly or inhibit its action on the vasculature of the human placental villus. Addition to perfusion medium of methylene blue (10(5) mol/L), which is an inhibitor of activation of guanylate cyclase by nitric oxide, significantly increased perfusion pressure of the fetal-placental circulation over a range of flow rates (1 to 10 ml/min) compared with the perfusion pressures seen in the absence of methylene blue. This suggests basal release of nitric oxide may contribute to maintenance of resting vascular tone. Both glyceryl trinitrate (10(-9) to 5 x 10(6) mol/L) and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (10(-8) to 10(-4) mol/L), which generate nitric oxide intracellularly, were able to significantly vasodilate the fetal-placental circulation preconstricted with the thromboxane mimetic U46619 (1 to 5 x 10(-8) mol/L) in a concentration-dependent manner. These compounds had no effect in the absence of the vasoconstrictor. Thus it appears that the placental villus tree has the ability to both generate and respond to nitric oxide.
Stimulation of arterial 42K efflux by ATP depletion and cromakalim is antagonized by glyburide.	It has been suggested that cromakalim (BRL 34915)-induced vasorelaxation was associated with stimulation of ATP-sensitive K channels. The hyperpolarization resulting from activation of this mechanism might then inhibit voltage-dependent Ca2+ entry and subsequent contraction. The present study evaluated the similarities of 42K efflux stimulated by ATP depletion (verified by high-performance liquid chromatography) and by exposure to cromakalim (10 microM) in rabbit superior mesenteric arteries. Both depletion of intracellular ATP and exposure to cromakalim significantly stimulated 42K efflux (P less than 0.05). Glyburide (a selective inhibitor of ATP-sensitive K channels in pancreatic beta-cells) inhibited 42K efflux stimulated by ATP depletion and by cromakalim exposure. Glyburide (10 microM) had no significant effect on either basal 42K or the 42K efflux stimulated by norepinephrine and by K depolarization, which cause voltage and Ca2(+)-dependent activation of K channels. Glyburide therefore had a relatively selective effect on vascular smooth muscle. The glyburide-sensitive 42K efflux during ATP depletion and exposure to cromakalim was greatest in Ca2(+)-free solution (Mg raised to 10 mM). We conclude that in vascular smooth muscle both depletion of ATP and exposure to cromakalim stimulate 42K efflux via a glyburide-sensitive mechanism with properties similar to those of ATP-sensitive K channels observed in cardiac and pancreatic beta-cells.
Generation of nitric oxide from organic nitrovasodilators during passage through the coronary vascular bed and its role in coronary vasodilation and nitrate tolerance.	This study investigated the release of nitric oxide (NO) from glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) and SIN-1 in Langendorff rabbit hearts. Infusion of either GTN (10-40 microM) or SIN-1 (0.45-4.5 microM) into the coronary inflow tract resulted in a decrease in coronary perfusion pressure and NO release (oxyhemoglobin technique) into the coronary effluent. NO release from SIN-1 occurred spontaneously whereas passage through the coronary circulation, i.e. active metabolism, was required for NO release from GTN. Removal of the coronary endothelium and blockade of endothelial NO formation did not affect NO release from GTN and SIN-1. In GTN-tolerant hearts, there was a considerable inhibition of GTN- but not SIN-1-induced NO formation and coronary vasodilation. These data suggest (1) that metabolic NO release from GTN occurs during passage of the coronary circulation and is independent of the presence of endothelium, and (2) reduced NO release is a major cause of nitrate tolerance.
Cytochrome P-450-dependent vasodilator responses to arachidonic acid in the isolated, perfused kidney of the rat.	Pretreatment of phenylephrine (0.5 microM)-preconstricted, isolated perfused kidneys of the male rat with indomethacin (2.8 microM) or BM 13.177 (20 microM) abolished the vasoconstrictor response to arachidonic acid (AA), uncovering a vasodilator response. BW 755C (25 microM), a dual cyclooxygenase/lipoxygenase inhibitor, did not modify the vasodilator effect of AA, whereas 5,8,11,14-eicosatetraynoic acid (10 microM), which blocks all pathways of AA metabolism, abolished AA-induced vasodilation, thus suggesting the involvement of nonlipoxygenase AA metabolites. Clotrimazole (0.7 microM) and 7-ethoxyresorufin (1 microM), both considered to be specific inhibitors of the cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase enzymes, inhibited the vasodilator effect, suggesting that AA-induced renal vasodilation is mediated by one or more cytochrome P-450-derived AA metabolites. None of these interventions affected the vasodilator responses to acetylcholine (100 ng) and nitroprusside (1 microgram). Denudation of the endothelium with CHAPS (10 mg/l) reduced the vasodilator responses to AA, suggesting a requirement of an intact endothelium, whereas inhibition of guanylate cyclase with methylene blue (10(-4) M) was without effect, suggesting that cGMP was not involved in the vasodilator response to AA. The AA-induced renal vasodilation was accompanied by the generation of biologically active material or materials released into the renal effluent, which relaxed endothelium-intact and endothelium-denuded rings of isolated aorta and mesenteric and celiac arteries of the rabbit. These results suggest that in the rat kidney, AA is metabolized by endothelial cytochrome P-450-dependent enzymes to vasodilator metabolites.
Quantitative autoradiography of the binding sites for [125I] iodoglyburide, a novel high-affinity ligand for ATP-sensitive potassium channels in rat brain.	We have developed a high specific activity ligand for localization of ATP-sensitive potassium channels in the brain. When brain sections were incubated with [125I]iodoglyburide (N-[2-[[[(cyclohexylamino)carbonyl]amino]sulfonyl]ethyl]-5-125I-2- methoxybenzamide), the ligand bound to a single site with a KD of 495 pM and a maximum binding site density of 176 fmol/mg of tissue. Glyburide was the most potent inhibitor of specific [125I]iodoglyburide binding to rat forebrain sections whereas iodoglyburide and glipizide were slightly less potent. The binding was also sensitive to ATP which completely inhibited binding at concentrations of 10 mM. Autoradiographic localization of [125I]iodoglyburide binding indicated a broad distribution of the ATP-sensitive potassium channel in the brain. The highest levels of binding were seen in the globus pallidus and ventral pallidum followed by the septohippocampal nucleus, anterior pituitary, the CA2 and CA3 region of the hippocampus, ventral pallidum, the molecular layer of the cerebellum and substantia nigra zona reticulata. The hilus and dorsal subiculum of the hippocampus, molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, cerebral cortex, lateral olfactory tract nucleus, olfactory tubercle and the zona incerta contained relatively high levels of binding. A lower level of binding (approximately 3- to 4-fold) was found throughout the remainder of the brain. These results indicate that the ATP-sensitive potassium channel has a broad presence in the rat brain and that a few select brain regions are enriched in this subtype of neuronal potassium channels.
Depression of endothelium-dependent relaxation in aorta from rats with Brugia pahangi lymphatic filariasis.	A role for altered endothelial cell function is emerging in the pathogenesis of disease. We have previously demonstrated that Dirofilaria immitis, the canine heartworm, depresses endothelium-dependent responses and alters the mechanism of relaxation in the in vivo femoral artery of infected dogs. Exposure of rat aorta to the parasite or parasite-conditioned medium selectively depresses endothelium-dependent relaxation. D. immitis is closely related to the major human filarial pathogens. This study was designed to examine the effect of chronic infection with the filarial nematode Brugia pahangi on endothelium-mediated responses of the rat aorta in vitro. We tested the hypothesis that endothelium-dependent responses are depressed in the aorta from rats infected with B. pahangi. Rings of thoracic and abdominal aorta were suspended in muscle baths for measurement of isometric tension. Dose-response relations to norepinephrine, endothelium-dependent dilators (acetylcholine, histamine, and A23187), and nitroglycerin were done. In some experiments, inhibitors of cyclooxygenase (indomethacin and aspirin), guanylate cyclase (methylene blue), and nitric oxide formation (N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester; L-NOARG) were used. No differences in vascular reactivity were detected in the thoracic aorta. In contrast, endothelium-dependent responses in abdominal aorta of Brugia-infected rats were significantly depressed when compared with control aorta from noninfected rats. Acetylcholine relaxation was further depressed by indomethacin and aspirin. After L-NOARG, acetylcholine relaxation in control abdominal aorta was completely abolished; however, in abdominal aorta of Brugia-infected rats, acetylcholine still caused relaxation. Methylene blue inhibited acetylcholine relaxation in both control and Brugia-infected abdominal aorta; however, relaxation in Brugia-infected aorta was significantly greater than control. This study demonstrates that endothelium-dependent relaxation can be altered by chronic experimental filarial infection in the absence of direct contact between the blood vessel and the parasite. The mechanism of relaxation in the Brugia-infected abdominal aorta appears to be altered when compared with control, suggesting that parasites are capable of modulating vascular reactivity by inducing changes in endothelial cell behavior. The mechanism may involve parasite-induced local inflammation or alterations in endothelial cell metabolism. Understanding how chronic experimental filarial infection alters vascular reactivity may enhance our understanding of the pathogenesis of human filariasis.
The interaction of vasodilating drugs and sympathetic blockade in normal and ischemic canine hindlimbs.	The purpose of this study was to determine if intraarterial vasodilating drugs could augment the vasodilation produced by sympathetic blockade, such as occurs during epidural anesthesia. Papaverine (2 mg/min), nitroglycerin (1 microgram/kg/min), aand saline were infused into the femoral artery before and after lumbar sympathectomy in six arterially isolated canine hindlimbs. Femoral blood flow was controlled with a perfusion circuit at baseline (80 ml/min), half-baseline (40 ml/min), and low (5 ml/min) flow rates so that hindlimb mean arterial pressure served as an index of peripheral vasodilation. At low flow, hindlimb arteriovenous oxygen content difference increased from 1.4 (baseline) to 6.2 ml O2/dl, consistent with peripheral ischemia. At baseline flow before sympathectomy, papaverine and nitroglycerin caused a decrease in hindlimb mean arterial pressure of 30% and 18%, respectively (p less than 0.01 vs saline control), equivalent to the decreases of 31% and 16% after sympathectomy (p less than 0.01). At half-baseline, papaverine and nitroglycerin reduced hindlimb mean arterial pressure by 22% and 12%, respectively (p less than 0.01), and caused comparable vasodilation after sympathectomy. Neither drug significantly changed hindlimb mean arterial pressure at low flow. Sympathectomy itself reduced hindlimb mean arterial pressure by 23% at baseline flow (p less than 0.01), by 18% at half-baseline flow (p less than 0.01), but had no effect at low flow. We conclude that intraarterial papaverine and nitroglycerin cause peripheral vasodilation that is synergistic with sympathectomy-induced adrenergic blockade, but they cannot augment vasodilation caused by peripheral ischemia.
Metabolic correlates to pacemaker activity in the smooth muscle of guinea-pig mesotubarium.	Oxygen consumption (FO2) and lactate production (Flac) were measured during spontaneous activity in the guinea-pig mesotubarium. During spontaneous contractions FO2 increased to maximally 0.270 +/- 0.025 mumol min-1g-1 (n = 23), followed by a rapid fall immediately upon relaxation. In the relaxed period (5-15 min) between spontaneous contractions FO2 continued to slowly decrease by about 25% towards a final value of 0.150 +/- 0.01 mumol min-1g-1. Flac showed no consistent variation during the relaxed period. Ouabain (10(-6)M) produced a contracture, which was abolished by the Ca2(+)-antagonist felodipine (10(-6)M). In the presence of felodipine, addition of ouabain caused depolarization and a decrease of oxygen consumption by 21% and of lactate production by 31%. Exchange of glucose in the physiological Krebs solution for beta-hydroxybutyrate did not influence spontaneous activity, while subsequent addition of cyanide (2 mM) abolished contractions and caused a hyperpolarization of 15 mV. Blockade of ATP-dependent K+ channels by addition of glibenclamide (10(-7)M) to the relaxed muscle in this situation caused spontaneous contractile activity to reappear. In glucose-containing Krebs solution glibenclamide had no effect on the spontaneous contractile and electrical activity and contractions persisted after addition of cyanide. The relaxing and hyperpolarizing effect of pinacidil could be counteracted by addition of glibenclamide. The results suggest that a decrease in electrogenic Na+/K(+)-pump activity in the course of the relaxed period between contractions could contribute to the pacemaker behaviour. ATP-dependent K+ channels, while having little influence on the spontaneous contractile activity under normal metabolic conditions, could be activated during blockade of aerobic and anaerobic metabolism, leading to inhibition of pacemaker activity.
Hypoxic pre-conditioning in a rat renal ischemia model: an evaluation of the use of hydralazine.	With the advent of improved diagnostic and imaging techniques, it is now possible to detect renal cancers in their very early stages, when they are still present as small renal masses. In these situations, use of laparoscopic partial nephrectomy (LPN) techniques are indicated and have gained acceptance in major medical institutions worldwide, offering comparable oncological outcomes and improving quality of life in the patient when contrasted with open nephrectomy procedures. However, a complication that may occur during or after this surgery is the possibility of compromising renal function, as a result of extended ischemia times of more than 30 min. We have undertaken a systematic study of the potential of several agents that may enhance renal parenchymal preservation without causing unwanted renal dysfunction as a result of enhanced ischemia times. In this study, we have evaluated the potential of one such agent under study, namely hydralazine, which was shown earlier to enhance hypoxia inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) levels in experimental animal systems. Our aim was to determine whether enhanced levels of HIF-1 via pre-treatment with hydralazine had a reno-protective effect after ischemic injury.
The protective effects of the thromboxane synthetase inhibitor Dazmegrel on nephrotoxicity in cyclosporine-treated rats.	Renal vasoconstriction has been implicated as a major contributing factor for the nephrotoxic effects of cyclosporine. In an attempt to assess the relative contribution of thromboxane (Tx), the effects of coadministering CsA with the selective Tx synthetase inhibitor, Dazmegrel (DAZ) (Pfizer, Inc.), were determined. Rats were treated orally with 50 mg/kg of DAZ plus 50 mg/kg of CsA and various indicators of nephrotoxicity and efficacy were assessed. Animals treated with CsA + DAZ had a normalization of renal TxB2 synthesis as compared with animals treated with CsA alone (160 vs. 338 pg/ml). Kidney proximal tubule damage following CsA treatment alone was also reduced in animals coadministered DAZ, as indicated by reduced urinary excretion of N-acetyl-beta-D-glucosaminidase (NAG) (9.7 vs. 14.1 U/g creatinine) and by histological examination of kidney sections. However, DAZ did not affect blood levels of CsA nor its efficacious activity in a model of experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE). These studies suggest a major role of elevated thromboxane production in the acute nephrotoxic effects of CsA and demonstrate a reduction in this toxicity by DAZ without altering CsA's efficacious activity.
Effects of a depressor on cochlear blood flow and perilymphatic oxygen tension.	To clarify the characteristics of the blood circulation in the cochlea, we investigated the relationship between cochlear blood flow and perilymphatic oxygen tension in guinea pigs with trimetaphan camsilate induced hypotension. Cochlear blood flow was measured by laser Doppler flowmetry, and perilymphatic oxygen tension by a polarographic method. Cochlear blood flow generally paralleled systemic blood pressure, while perilymphatic oxygen tension showed a slower response to the decrease of systemic blood pressure. Although there were individual differences in the changes of systemic blood pressure, cochlear blood flow and perilymphatic oxygen tension, they were found to be dose dependent. Since hypotension induced by trimetaphan camsilate is fairly reproducible in the dose range of this experiment, this drug can be used as a ganglion blocking agent in experiments on cochlear blood flow and perilymphatic oxygen tension during systemic hypotension. The change of perilymphatic oxygen tension with a slower response could be considered to be a factor in the homeostasis in the inner ear fluid.
Flow-dependent vasodilation. Pharmacology and physiopathology]	The phenomenon of flow-dependent vasodilatation is characterised by the variations of vascular tone to changes in regional blood flow. Initially considered to be a purely myogenic reaction of a vessel to a change in blood flow in the microcirculation, it is now generally accepted that "flow-dependent" vasodilatation is closely related to the modulating properties of the vascular endothelium. Local chemical or mechanical destruction of the vascular endothelium abolishes any vasomotor response in that particular region to increased blood flow in that vessel (for example during a hyperemic response or after injection of papaverine), whereas the response to a substance directly relaxing the smooth muscle of the large arteries (such as nitroglycerine) remains unchanged. Bioassay methods have shown that the fundamental mechanism of flow dependence is the liberation of one or more relaxing factors (EDRF) from endothelial cells sensitive to variations in shear stress which accompany all changes in regional blood flow. From the pharmacological point of view, flow-dependent vasodilatation enables identification of several types of vasodilator drugs depending on whether the relaxation of vascular smooth muscle which follows their administration remains the same or not in the absence of concomitant changes in regional blood flow. The vasodilatation caused by calcium antagonists and potassium agonists is largely related to the phenomenon of flow-dependency whilst that induced by nitroglycerin is totally independent. Finally, from the physiopathological view-point, the clinical studies published in this domain show that blood pressure has little influence on flow-dependent vasodilation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
EDRF: nitrosylated compound or authentic nitric oxide.	Endothelium-derived factor (EDRF) from bovine aortic endothelial cells was compared to solutions of authentic nitric oxide (NO) and to solutions of the nitrosothiol S-nitroso-L-cysteine. EDRF was produced from endothelial cells by basal release or by stimulation with the calcium ionophore A23187. Biological activity was measured as relaxation of porcine coronary arteries preconstricted with prostaglandin F2 alpha, and chemical analysis was made of the nitrosyl content by measurement of NO released after chemical reduction with 1% sodium iodide in glacial acetic acid. EDRF, NO, and nitrosocysteine had identical half-lives, were all inactivated by hemoglobin and methylene blue, and were all augmented in their biological activity by superoxide dismutase. When solutions were analyzed for their biological activity as a function of the NO content (after NaI/acetic acid reduction), nitrosocysteine showed more vasodilation per amount of contained NO than did authentic NO. Solutions containing EDRF (basal release or by stimulation with A23187) subjected to the same analysis appeared similar to nitrosocysteine, and were distinct from solutions of NO. These experiments show that nitrosyl compounds other than NO can have properties very similar or identical to EDRF, and that in this system EDRF appears more similar to nitrosocysteine than to NO.
Angiotensin II and neurohumoral control of the renal medullary circulation.	1. Angiotensin (Ang) II has multiple actions in the renal medullary circulation. It can induce vasodilatation and blunt the response of medullary blood flow (MBF) to renal nerve activation through AT(1) receptor-mediated release of nitric oxide (NO) and/or vasodilator prostaglandins. These actions require high intravascular and/or intratubular AngII concentrations, so are not apparent under physiological conditions. 2. Nevertheless, these mechanisms blunt the responsiveness of MBF to AT(1) receptor-mediated vasoconstriction. When these protective mechanisms fail, as when oxidative stress reduces NO bioavailability in the medullary circulation, AngII reduces MBF. If sustained, reduced MBF leads to the development of hypertension. 3. Chronic activation of the renin-angiotensin system (RAS) induces oxidative stress in the kidney. Therefore, MBF may be reduced in models of hypertension associated with RAS activation both because AngII levels per se are increased and because of increased responsiveness of MBF to AngII-induced vasoconstriction. 4. Endogenous AngII enhances the responsiveness of MBF to renal nerve stimulation, whereas NO blunts it. Chronic RAS activation and/or oxidative stress should therefore be expected to enhance MBF responses to renal nerve stimulation. Consistent with this, reductions in MBF induced by renal nerve stimulation are enhanced in rabbits with AngII-induced hypertension, renovascular hypertension or after 9 weeks of fat feeding. 5. We conclude that the ability of endogenous AngII to reduce MBF and enhance the response of MBF to activation of the renal nerves could contribute to the development of hypertension under conditions of RAS activation, especially if accompanied by increased renal sympathetic nerve activity.
Effects of K+ channel agonists cromakalim and pinacidil on rat basilar artery smooth muscle cells are mediated by Ca(++)-activated K+ channels.	Whole-cell and cell-free inside-out patch-clamp recording techniques were used to examine the actions of potassium channel openers pinacidil and cromakalim in enzymatically isolated smooth muscle cells of rat basilar artery. Delayed rectifier and calcium-dependent potassium currents were identified from the whole-cell recordings. Only the calcium-dependent potassium current was increased by cromakalim and pinacidil. Recordings from inside-out membrane patches revealed a large conductance voltage- and calcium-dependent potassium channel, which was blocked by charybdotoxin but unaffected by ATP less than 10 mM. Cromakalim and pinacidil increased the open probability of this channel. On the basis of these results, we suggest that such drugs, acting on cerebral arterial smooth muscle cell potassium channels, may be of some benefit in the treatment of cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid hemorrhage.
Hydrophobic properties of novel dihydronaphthyridine calcium antagonists and biological activity in porcine isolated cardiac and vascular smooth muscle.	Dihydronaphthyridine calcium antagonists are structurally related to the well known dihydropyridines and act in a similar manner. In order to establish the vascular selectivity of these compounds contractile force was evaluated in porcine isolated ventricular trabeculae and right coronary arteries. The dihydropyridine derivatives nisoldipine and nitrendipine as well as the structurally different compounds gallopamil and flunarizine were included for comparison purpose. All compounds studied exhibited dose-dependent negative inotropic and vasodilator activities. The negative inotropic potency of all dihydronaphthyridines, especially of the highly lipophilic bulky ester-variated derivatives (Goe 5584-A, Goe 5806-A) was comparable to that of flunarizine but was considerably less pronounced than that of nisoldipine, nitrendipine or gallopamil. By contrast, half-maximal vasodilator responses of the dihydronaphthyridines studied in coronary arteries being in the nanomolar concentration range were comparable to the dihydropyridines nisoldipine and nitrendipine, whereas the activity of gallopamil and flunarizine was less marked. On the other side the dihydronaphthyridines, especially the more hydrophilic 3-ethylester-4-(2-cyanophenyl) derivative Goe 5606, exerted an obvious biphasic concentration-response behaviour in coronary arteries leading to a high affinity relaxant process in subnanomolar concentrations, whereas the low affinity response could be observed at rather high concentrations (mostly greater than 1 microM). Mainly due to their relative uneffectiveness in cardiac muscle, vascular selectivity of the dihydronaphthyridines was considerably higher than that of the structurally related dihydropyridines nisoldipine resp. nitrendipine increasing in the following order: nitrendipine less than nisoldipine less than Goe 5606 less than Goe 5438 less than Goe 5584-A less than Goe 5806-A. By contrast, gallopamil exerted a slight cardiac preference, whereas the vascular selectivity of flunarizine was also pronounced.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sarpogrelate hydrochloride, a selective 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) antagonist, augments autologous bone marrow mononuclear cell implantation-induced improvement in endothelium-dependent vasodilation in patients with critical limb ischemia.	The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a combination of bone marrow mononuclear cell (BM-MNC) implantation and sarpogrelate, a selective 5-HT(2A) antagonist, on endothelial function in patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI).
A new approach to the treatment of cerebral vasospasm: the angiographic effects of tadalafil on experimental vasospasm.	The pathogenesis of cerebral vasospasm is likely to be multifactorial. Strong evidence has indicated that decreasing levels of NO after SAH seem to be important. A PDE-V inhibitor, tadalafil, theoretically increases NO levels. Our study investigated the vasodilatory efficacy of tadalafil on the cerebral arteries with measurement of basilar artery diameters on angiography.
Endothelium-dependent responses in long-term human coronary artery bypass grafts.	In the present study, responses of long-term human coronary artery bypass grafts (CABGs) to known endothelium-dependent vasodilators, acetylcholine, calcium ionophore A23187, thrombin, and histamine, as well as authentic nitric oxide, the putative endothelium-derived relaxing factor, were studied. Sixteen CAGBs were isolated within 1-2 hours from hearts of 14 patients receiving a cardiac transplant. A total of 109 ring segments were prepared from these CABGs and studied in vitro. The duration of the CABGs ranged from 7 months to 12 years. Addition of acetylcholine (0.01-10 microM), calcium ionophore A23187 (0.01-1.0 microM), thrombin (0.01-1.0 unit/ml), and histamine (0.01-1.0 microM) consistently produced a dose- and endothelium-dependent relaxation, reaching a maximum of -35.3 +/- 3.3%, -45.3 +/- 5.5%, -26.9 +/- 4.8%, and -17.8 +/- 2.5% (mean +/- SEM), respectively. No significant difference was observed among the CABGs with different duration of transplantation, whereas the relaxant responses of different segments along the entire length of a CABG were markedly different. These latter differences in the endothelium-dependent responses appear to correlate inversely with the development of intimal proliferative lesions in these CABGs. Addition of nitric oxide (0.01-10 microM) produced a potent dose- and endothelium-independent relaxation, which was also slightly depressed in CABGs with severe intimal proliferation. These results demonstrate that long-term transplanted human saphenous vein grafts retain their endothelium-dependent responses and that development of severe intimal proliferative lesions, rather than the duration of the grafts, result in marked alterations in the reactivity of these transplanted CABGs.
The design of a novel class of potassium channel activating drugs, 2-(2,2-dimethylbenzopyran-4-yl)-pyridine-1-oxides.	The features of cromakalim responsible for its potassium channel activating property were investigated. A hypothesis relating three-dimensional structure to binding to a putative receptor was developed and used successfully to design the potent and structurally novel agents, 2-(2,2-dimethylbenzopyran-4-yl)-pyridine-1-oxides.
Different inhibition and induction profiles of hepatic drug metabolism in rats and dogs by two structurally related pyridyl diazinone cardiotonic agents.	ICI 153,110 and ICI 170,777, two pyridyl diazinone cardiotonic agents, produced a different profile of effects on hepatic microsomal mixed function oxidase enzymes following multiple oral dosing to rats and dogs; these differences may be related to the molecular dimensions of the two molecules. ICI 153,110 significantly increased levels of total P450, ethoxycoumarin O-deethylase and ethoxyresorufin O-deethylase in rat microsomes, indicating an induction profile (P448) similar to that of beta-naphthoflavone. This was supported by gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) of microsomal proteins; a similar type of induction was observed in dog microsomes. In contrast, ICI 170,777 produced no changes indicating enzyme induction in either rat or dog. Instead, ICI 170,777 appeared to inhibit specifically the activity of aldrin epoxidase in the rat. Inhibitory activity was also indicated in the rat by prolongation of pentobarbitone sleeping time following single oral doses of either ICI 153,110 or ICI 170,777. The time-course of this effect appeared to correlate more closely with the profile of circulating metabolites, although both parent compounds were found to produce type II spectral changes on interaction with control rat microsomes. The molecular dimensions (area/depth2) of the compounds supported the finding that only ICI 153,110 should interact with or induce P448 isozymes.
2,2,2-trichloroethanol activates a nonclassical potassium channel in cerebrovascular smooth muscle and dilates the middle cerebral artery.	Trichloroacetaldehyde monohydrate [chloral hydrate (CH)] is a sedative/hypnotic that increases cerebral blood flow (CBF), and its active metabolite 2,2,2-trichloroethanol (TCE) is an agonist for the nonclassical two-pore domain K(+) (K(2P)) channels TREK-1 and TRAAK. We sought to determine whether TCE dilates cerebral arteries in vitro by activating nonclassical K(+) channels. TCE dilated pressurized and perfused rat middle cerebral arteries (MCAs) in a manner consistent with activation of nonclassical K(+) channels. Dilation to TCE was inhibited by elevated external K(+) but not by an inhibitory cocktail (IC) of classical K(+) channel blockers. Patch-clamp electrophysiology revealed that, in the presence of the IC, TCE increased whole-cell currents and hyperpolarized the membrane potential of isolated MCA smooth muscle cells. Heating increased TCE-sensitive currents, indicating that the activated channel was thermosensitive. Immunofluorescence in sections of the rat MCA demonstrated that, like TREK-1, TRAAK is expressed in the smooth muscle of cerebral arteries. Isoflurane did not, however, dilate the MCA, suggesting that TREK-1 was not functional. These data indicate that TCE activated a nonclassical K(+) channel with the characteristics of TRAAK in rat MCA smooth-muscle cells. Stimulation of K(+) channels such as TRAAK in cerebral arteries may therefore explain in part how CH/TCE increases CBF.
Restoration of cerebral vascular relaxation in renin congenic rats by introgression of the Dahl R renin gene.	This study determined whether transfer of the renin gene from the Dahl salt-resistant (Dahl R) strain into the Dahl salt-sensitive (SS) genetic background restores the relaxation of middle cerebral arteries (MCAs) to different vasodilator stimuli in S/renRR renin congenic (SS.SR-(D13N1 and Syt2)/Mcwi) (RGRR) rats maintained on low-salt (0.4% NaCl) diet.
Vascular responsiveness to various vasoactive substances after exchange transfusion with pyridoxalated hemoglobin polyoxyethylene conjugate (PHP) solution in anesthetized rats.	Vascular responsiveness to various vasoactive substances after exchange transfusion with a modified hemoglobin (pyridoxalated hemoglobin polyxyethylene conjugate; PHP) was examined in anesthetized rats. The hindlimb region of the rat was perfused through the abdominal aorta with autologous blood at a constant flow rate, using a perfusion pump. Perfusion pressure (PP), systemic blood pressure (SBP), and heart rate were measured. Exchange transfusion with a 6% PHP solution (20 ml/kg) was performed and effects of intra-arterial injections of norepinephrine (NE), angiotensin-II (A-II), serotonin (5-HT), acetylcholine (ACh), and nitroglycerin (NG) on PP and SBP were examined. The NE and A-II induced a dose-dependent increase in PP, while ACh and NG induced a decrease in PP. There was no difference in vascular responsiveness to ACh, NG, A-II, and 5-HT before and after exchange transfusion with PHP solution, but NE-induced responses were augmented after exchange transfusion with PHP. Results suggest that the presence of PHP moiety in circulation would not alter vascular responsiveness to ACh, NG, A-II, and 5-HT in a significant manner.
Influence of nocloprost on the vascular responses to various stimuli in the isolated perfused rabbit kidney.	Nocloprost, a new synthetic prostanoid, elicited a vasodilator action when given through the renal artery of the isolated perfused rabbit kidney. Lower concentrations of the compound inhibited the pressor response to sympathetic stimulation or to angiotensin II, but potentiated the pressor effect of exogenous noradrenaline. These results were taken as an evidence that nocloprost prevents the release of neurotransmitter by a presynaptic mechanism.
Renal vascular dysfunction precedes the development of renal damage in the hypertensive Fawn-Hooded rat.	It is unknown whether generalized vascular dysfunction precedes the development of kidney disease. Therefore, we studied myogenic constriction and endothelium-mediated dilatory responses in two inbred Fawn-Hooded (FH) rat strains, one of which spontaneously develops hypertension, proteinuria, and glomerulosclerosis (FHH), whereas the other (FHL) does not. Small renal, mesenteric resistance arteries and thoracic aorta isolated from FH rats before (7 wk old) and after the development of mild proteinuria (12 wks old) were mounted in perfused and isometric set-ups, respectively. Myogenic response, endothelium-dependent relaxation, and the contribution of endothelium-mediated dilatory compounds were studied using their respective inhibitors. Myogenic reactivity was assessed constructing pressure-diameter curves in the presence and absence of calcium. At the age of 7 wk, renal arteries isolated from kidneys of FHH rats developed significantly lower myogenic tone compared with FHL, most likely because of excessive cyclo-oxygenase 1-mediated production of constrictive prostaglandins. Consequently, young FHH demonstrated reduced maximal myogenic tone (22 +/- 4.8 vs. 10.8 +/- 2.0%, P = 0.03) and the peak myogenic index (-6.9 +/- 4.8 vs. 0.6 +/- 0.8%/mmHg, P = 0.07 for FHL vs. FHH, respectively). Active myogenic curves obtained in mesenteric arteries isolated from 7-wk-old rats did not differ between either strain, demonstrating a similar level of systemic myogenic tone in FHL and FHH rats. Therefore, before any renal end-organ damage is present, myogenic response seems selectively impaired in renal vasculature of FHH rats. Aortic reactivity did not differ between FHL and FHH at the time points studied. The present study shows that vascular dysfunction in both small renal and systemic arteries precedes renal end-organ damage in a spontaneous model of hypertension-associated renal damage. These early vascular changes might be potentially involved in the increased susceptibility of FHH rats to renal injury.
Future directions in vasodilator therapy for heart failure.	Vasodilator therapy has become a major pharmacologic approach for improving left ventricular function, and consequently, vasodilator drugs are being used increasingly in the treatment of heart failure. Ideally, vasodilator drugs used in the long-term management of heart failure should show clearly defined pharmacodynamic effects. These include reduced impedance to left ventricular ejection, increased venous capacitance, increased left ventricular ejection fraction and reduced heart size, absence of neurohormonal stimulation, and slowed progression of left ventricular dysfunction. The mechanisms of action and sites of activity of the various vasodilator drugs currently available vary considerably, and none as yet has proved ideal for the treatment of heart failure or hypertension. The complexity surrounding the multiple vasoconstrictor mechanisms involved in heart failure has led to a rationale for combined vasodilator therapy and certain combinations are discussed. From a therapeutic standpoint, the development of drugs with multiple mechanisms of action is particularly attractive. Flosequinan is a new vasodilator agent whose cellular mechanism of action remains uncertain. Flosequinan has the advantage of being able to relax both arterial and venous beds and as such may be particularly beneficial in the treatment of heart failure.
Baroreflex control of muscle sympathetic nerve activity: a nonpharmacological measure of baroreflex sensitivity.	The sensitivity of baroreflex control of sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) represents the responsiveness of SNA to changes in blood pressure. In a slightly different analysis, the baroreflex threshold measures the probability of whether a sympathetic burst will occur at a given diastolic blood pressure. We hypothesized that baroreflex threshold analysis could be used to estimate the sensitivity of the sympathetic baroreflex measured by the pharmacological modified Oxford test. We compared four measures of sympathetic baroreflex sensitivity in 25 young healthy participants: the "gold standard" modified Oxford analysis (nitroprusside and phenylephrine), nonbinned spontaneous baroreflex analysis, binned spontaneous baroreflex analysis, and threshold analysis. The latter three were performed during a quiet baseline period before pharmacological intervention. The modified Oxford baroreflex sensitivity was significantly related to the threshold slope (r = 0.71, P < 0.05) but not to the binned (1 mmHg bins) and the nonbinned spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity (r = 0.22 and 0.36, respectively, P > 0.05), which included burst area. The threshold analysis was also performed during the modified Oxford manipulation. Interestingly, we found that the threshold analysis results were not altered by the vasoactive drugs infused for the modified Oxford. We conclude that the noninvasive threshold analysis technique can be used as an indicator of muscle SNA baroreflex sensitivity as assessed by the modified Oxford technique. Furthermore, the modified Oxford method does not appear to alter the properties of the baroreflex.
Amrinone reverses cardiac depression and augments coronary vasodilation with isoflurane in the isolated heart.	Amrinone is a positive inotropic and vasodilatory agent and may be administered during anesthesia with isoflurane. The authors' aims were 1) to examine if amrinone produces coronary artery vasodilation through an increase in metabolic demand or through a direct vasodilatory effect or through both and 2) to test if amrinone attenuates cardiac depression and enhances coronary artery vasodilation produced with exposure to isoflurane. The effects of these drugs were examined in 11 isolated perfused guinea pig hearts. Variables measured were: heart rate (HR), atrioventricular conduction time (AVCT), isovolumetric peak left ventricular pressure (LVP), coronary flow, percent O2 extraction, myocardial O2 consumption (MVO2), and the ratio of O2 delivery (DO2) to MVO2. Each heart was exposed for 10-min periods to 10, 50, 100, and 500 microM amrinone alone, and to 0.5 or 1% isoflurane before, during, and after amrinone. Initial control values were: heart rate 216 +/- 5 beats per min; AVCT 56 +/- 1 ms; peak LVP 86 +/- 3 mmHg; coronary flow 6.3 +/- 0.3 ml.min-1.g-1 (11.4 +/- 0.7 ml.min-1.g-1 with adenosine bolus), percent O2 extraction 52 +/- 3%; DO2 107 +/- 3 microliters.min-1.g-1; MVO2 56 +/- 4 microliters.min-1.g-1; and DO2/MVO2 1.75 +/- 0.08. Amrinone 500 microM alone increased (P less than 0.05) heart rate by 9%, LVP by 13%, coronary flow by 18%, and MVO2 by 23%; AVCT decreased by 3%.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Obesity-induced impairment of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in Tunisian women.	It is now well recognized that obesity is a major public health concern, and its prevalence has tremendously increased worldwide over the last decades, including Tunisia. As obesity is associated with cardiovascular diseases, the purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of obesity on forearm skin blood flow (FSBF) response to acetylcholine (Ach), an endothelium-dependent vasodilator, in Tunisian women over a wide range of body mass indices (BMIs).
Role of potassium channels in the vascular response to endogenous and pharmacological vasodilators.	Many endogenous and pharmacological vasodilators hyperpolarize vascular smooth muscle and this response appears to be due to an increased conductance to potassium ions. The hyperpolarization may contribute to the mechanism of dilation by causing voltage-dependent calcium channels to close. Recent evidence indicates that the response to hyperpolarizing vasodilators is mediated through activation of ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels. Single KATP channels on isolated vascular smooth muscle cells are activated by cromakalim and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). This response is inhibited by glibenclamide. Cromakalim, CGRP and other vasodilators hyperpolarize and relax arteries in vitro and these responses are reversed by glibenclamide. The hypotensive effects of these agents in vivo are antagonized by glibenclamide. We propose that activation of KATP channels and the associated membrane hyperpolarization represents an important general mechanism of vasodilation.
Overexpression of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase protects against cerebral vascular effects of hyperhomocysteinemia.	Hyperhomocysteinemia is a cardiovascular risk factor that is associated with elevation of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor asymmetrical dimethylarginine (ADMA).
Lack of neural control and reactivity to vasoactive agents in malignant glioma arteries.	Vessels in malignant brain tumors have a defective blood-brain barrier. It is important to know if tumor vessels respond to vasoactive agents, since systemic administration of vasodilatory agents together with chemotherapy could increase the access of these drugs to the tumor. It was found that arteries in human malignant gliomas have no neural control and are totally nonreactive to various vasoactive agents. The vessels lose their reactivity within 1 to 2 mm outside the visible tumor front.
Cromakalim dilates rat cerebral arteries in vitro.	Using an in vitro perfusion method, we examined the effects of cromakalim, a potassium channel opener, on the superior cerebellar arteries of 24 rats. Cromakalim had no effect on contractions induced by 129 mM K+ until a concentration of 10(-5) M was reached. Contractions evoked by 10(-5) M serotonin were attenuated by cromakalim in a concentration-dependent manner (p less than 0.05). The diameter of untreated superior cerebellar arteries remained almost constant with increasing perfusion pressure. However, in the presence of cromakalim vessel diameter increased with increasing perfusion pressure. At concentrations of 3 x 10(-6) M, cromakalim also inhibited basal myogenic tone and dilated unstimulated arteries (p less than 0.01). These results suggest that cromakalim is a cerebrovascular dilator acting on both receptor-mediated and myogenic contractions.
Sildenafil citrate improves fetal outcomes in pregnant, L-NAME treated, Sprague-Dawley rats.	This study aimed to investigate the effects of sildenafil citrate on various fetal and physiological parameters, including fetal mortality, number of pups, placental weights and micro-albuminuria in pregnant, L-NAME treated Sprague-Dawley rats.
Lupus-prone New Zealand Black/New Zealand White F1 mice display endothelial dysfunction and abnormal phenotype and function of endothelial progenitor cells.	Patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) have an impairment in phenotype and function of endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) which is mediated by interferon alpha (IFN-alpha). We assessed whether murine lupus models also exhibit vasculogenesis abnormalities and their potential association with endothelial dysfunction. Phenotype and function of EPCs and type I IFN gene signatures in EPC compartments were assessed in female New Zealand Black/New Zealand White F(1) (NZB/W), B6.MRL-Fas(lpr)/J (B6/lpr) and control mice. Thoracic aorta endothelial and smooth muscle function were measured in response to acetylcholine or sodium nitropruside, respectively. NZB/W mice displayed reduced numbers, increased apoptosis and impaired function of EPCs. These abnormalities correlated with significant decreases in endothelium-dependent vasomotor responses and with increased type I IFN signatures in EPC compartments. In contrast, B6/lpr mice showed improvement in endothelium-dependent and endothelial-independent responses, no abnormalities in EPC phenotype or function and downregulation of type I IFN signatures in EPC compartments. These results indicate that NZB/W mice represent a good model to study the mechanisms leading to endothelial dysfunction and abnormal vasculogenesis in lupus. These results further support the hypothesis that type I IFNs may play an important role in premature vascular damage and, potentially, atherosclerosis development in SLE.
Antispasmodic and vasodilator activities of Morinda citrifolia root extract are mediated through blockade of voltage dependent calcium channels.	Morinda citrifolia (Noni) is an edible plant with wide range of medicinal uses. It occurs exclusively in tropical climate zone from India through Southeast Asia and Australia to Eastern Polynesia and Hawaii. The objective of this study was to explore the possible mode(s) of action for its antispasmodic, vasodilator and cardio-suppressant effects to rationalize its medicinal use in gut and cardiovascular disorders.
Improvement of impaired endothelial function by tetrahydrobiopterin in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.	To investigate the role of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4), an essential cofactor of nitric oxide synthase, in endothelial function in a model of genetic hypertension, acetylcholine- and sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced vasodilator responses were examined in the absence and presence of BH4 in age-matched adult stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRSP) and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats. Acetylcholine-induced depressor responses attenuated significantly in SHRSP compared with those in WKY rats. Acetylcholine-induced relaxations in phenylephrine-precontracted aortic rings of SHRSP were also significantly impaired as compared to those of WKY rats, while SNP-induced relaxations were similar between both strains. In SHRSP, intravenous infusion of BH4 (0.12 mg/kg per min for 20 min following a bolus injection of 0.48 mg/kg) significantly improved vasodilator responses to acetylcholine without affecting those to SNP, but in WKY rats BH4 did not influence those to acetylcholine. BH4 infusion itself had no hemodynamic effect in both strains. However, BH4 levels in plasma and thoracic aorta as well as plasma concentrations of nitrite plus nitrate, metabolites of NO, in SHRSP were all significantly greater than those in WKY rats, suggesting the occurrence of compensatory upregulation of NO synthesis in SHRSP. These results demonstrate that the impaired endothelial function in SHRSP cannot be explained simply by the decrease in absolute amount of BH4.
Exercise tolerance in patients with heart failure--how should it be measured?	The exercise capability of 12 patients with heart failure was investigated by a variety of different methods before and after treatment with the vasodilator flosequinan. Two treadmill protocols were used, a modified Bruce with incremental workloads and a fixed workload protocol. On placebo, mean exercise time was greater with the Bruce protocol, 526 (64) s, than with the fixed protocol, 359 (59) s, P less than 0.005. Flosequinan increased exercise time more with the fixed protocol, so after 5 weeks' treatment exercise time was the same with both protocols; 680 (64) s with the Bruce and 673 (147) s with the fixed protocol. When the results are expressed as work, the patients achieved less with the Bruce protocol, 7.8 (1.9) kJ, than with the fixed protocol 12.5 (1.5) kJ on placebo, P less than 0.01. After flosequinan, the respective values were 14.5 (2.8) and 25.3 (5.1) kJ. Flosequinan improved corridor walk test times but there was no relationship between this and either treadmill test. Pedometer scores of customary activity were unchanged by flosequinan and were not correlated with any other exercise test. Different methods of assessing exercise capability provide different measures of patients' incapacity.
Differential vasodilation response to olprinone in rabbit renal and common carotid arteries.	Olprinone, one of the most frequently used phosphodiesterase-3 inhibitors, exerts its positive inotropic and vasodilation effects by inhibiting the degradation of intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). The vasodilation response to olprinone is not uniform among the different vascular beds. This study was designed to compare the vasorelaxation response to olprinone between renal and common carotid arteries, and investigate its underlying mechanisms.
Multiple mechanisms act to maintain kidney oxygenation during renal ischemia in anesthetized rabbits.	We examined the mechanisms that maintain stable renal tissue PO(2) during moderate renal ischemia, when changes in renal oxygen delivery (DO(2)) and consumption (VO(2)) are mismatched. When renal artery pressure (RAP) was reduced progressively from 80 to 40 mmHg, VO(2) (-38  7%) was reduced more than DO(2) (-26  4%). Electrical stimulation of the renal nerves (RNS) reduced DO(2) (-49  4% at 2 Hz) more than VO(2) (-30  7% at 2 Hz). Renal arterial infusion of angiotensin II reduced DO(2) (-38  3%) but not VO(2) (+10  10%). Despite mismatched changes in DO(2) and VO(2), renal tissue PO(2) remained remarkably stable at 40 mmHg RAP, during RNS at 2 Hz, and during angiotensin II infusion. The ratio of sodium reabsorption to VO(2) was reduced by all three ischemic stimuli. None of the stimuli significantly altered the gradients in PCO(2) or pH across the kidney. Fractional oxygen extraction increased and renal venous PO(2) fell during 2-Hz RNS and angiotensin II infusion, but not when RAP was reduced to 40 mmHg. Thus reduced renal VO(2) can help prevent tissue hypoxia during mild renal ischemia, but when renal VO(2) is reduced less than DO(2), other mechanisms prevent a fall in renal PO(2). These mechanisms do not include increased efficiency of renal oxygen utilization for sodium reabsorption or reduced washout of carbon dioxide from the kidney, leading to increased oxygen extraction. However, increased oxygen extraction could be driven by altered countercurrent exchange of carbon dioxide and/or oxygen between renal arteries and veins.
Nebivolol dilates human penile arteries and reverses erectile dysfunction in diabetic rats through enhancement of nitric oxide signaling.	Traditional beta-blockers have sometimes been associated with erectile dysfunction (ED). Nebivolol is a cardioselective (1)-adrenoceptor antagonist that promotes vasodilation through a nitric oxide (NO)-dependent mechanism.
Endothelium-dependent regulation of vascular tone of the porcine ophthalmic artery.	The endothelium produces relaxing and contracting substances, among them nitric oxide and endothelin. The role of the endothelium was investigated in the regulation of vascular tone in isolated porcine ophthalmic arteries suspended in a myograph system for isometric tension recording. In quiescent arteries with endothelium, the inhibitor of nitric oxide formation from L-arginine, L-NG-monomethyl arginine (L-NMMA), evoked endothelium-dependent contractions which were reversed by L-, but not D-arginine. In arteries contracted with serotonin, bradykinin evoked potent endothelium-dependent relaxations; L-NMMA markedly reduced the sensitivity but not the maximal response. Acetylcholine caused relaxations in preparations with endothelium but contractions in those without endothelium; L-NMMA prevented the relaxations and unmasked the contractions. The relaxations to the nitrovasodilator SIN-1 were more pronounced in preparations without than with endothelium. In quiescent arteries, quick stretching evoked endothelium-dependent contractions which were prevented by indomethacin. Endothelin-1, serotonin, and norepinephrine evoked concentration-dependent contractions with pD2 values of 8.1 +/- 0.1, 6.9 +/- 0.1, and 5.9 +/- 0.1, respectively. Removal of the endothelium markedly augmented the contractions induced by serotonin but not endothelin and norepinephrine. Thus, the endothelium profoundly affects vascular tone of the porcine ophthalmic artery. Endothelium-derived nitric oxide is released both under basal conditions and after stimulation with acetylcholine and bradykinin. It may play an important protective role in the circulation against vasospasm.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Potent effects of AP3A and AP4A on coronary resistance and autacoid release of intact rabbit hearts.	We investigated effects of platelet-derived dinucleotides diadenosine 5',5"'-P1,P3-triphosphate (AP3A) and diadenosine 5',5"'-P1,P4-tetraphosphate (AP4A) on coronary vasculature. In isolated rabbit hearts, saline perfused at constant flow (36 +/- 3 ml/min), AP3A and AP4A induced dose-dependent decreases in coronary perfusion pressure. Dose-effect curves of AP3A [-log M mean effective concentration (EC50) 6.2 +/- 0.1] and AP4A (EC50 6.4 +/- 0.2) were identical and not significantly different from those of adenosine, ADP, and ATP (n = 4-8). There were, however, distinct differences between both dinucleotides: pretreatment with endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF)-inhibitors oxyhemoglobin (6 microM, n = 6) and NG-nitro-L-arginine (30 microM, n = 6) significantly reduced AP4A-induced dilation by 44 and 42% but did not affect vasomotor effects of AP3A or of sodium nitroprusside, adenosine, ATP, and ADP. Concentration of the stable hydrolysis product of prostaglandin (PG)I2, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha, increased by 173 +/- 25% in coronary effluent (n = 23) during infusion of AP3A (1 microM). This increase was significantly higher than during infusion of equimolar concentrations of AP4A (38 +/- 10%), ATP (23 +/- 5%), adenosine (20 +/- 10%), or an equimolar combination of AMP and ADP (52 +/- 25%), the hydrolysis products of AP3A. Luminometric and high-performance liquid chromatography analysis showed a nearly complete (94 +/- 3%) degradation of ATP during passage through the coronary bed while significant amounts of AP3A (31 +/- 5%) and AP4A (33 +/- 6%) remained uncleaved.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Control of brain endothelial permeability.	The endothelium of the brain microvasculature is much tighter than that elsewhere in the body. Although brain endothelium appears to possess the same routes for transendothelial transfer as other endothelia, the rarity of some routes leads to an extremely low overall permeability. Cells associated with brain endothelium, particularly astrocytic glial cells, appear to be involved in induction of the low permeability state. Although relatively unaffected by hypoxia and changes in plasma ion concentration, brain endothelial permeability is increased by stretch and shrinkage of endothelial cells, and by inflammatory mediators. Recent evidence suggests that many mediators of increased transendothelial permeability act by raising intracellular free calcium, and causing a contractile event that pulls apart the tight junctions; this also appears to apply to brain endothelium. Comparison of the brain endothelium with the perineurium of peripheral nerve, part of the blood-nerve barrier, suggests that the modulation of brain endothelial permeability seen in pathological situations may give some physiological advantage.
Inhaled nitric oxide. A selective pulmonary vasodilator reversing hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction.	Background. The gas nitric oxide (NO) is an important endothelium-derived relaxing factor, inactivated by rapid combination with heme in hemoglobin. Methods and Results. Awake spontaneously breathing lambs inhaled 5-80 ppm NO with an acutely constricted pulmonary circulation due to either infusion of the stable thromboxane endoperoxide analogue U46619 or breathing a hypoxic gas mixture. Within 3 minutes after adding 40 ppm NO or more to inspired gas, pulmonary hypertension was reversed. Systemic vasodilation did not occur. Pulmonary hypertension resumed within 3-6 minutes of ceasing NO inhalation. During U46619 infusion pulmonary vasodilation was maintained up to 1 hour without tolerance. In the normal lamb, NO inhalation produced no hemodynamic changes. Breathing 80 ppm NO for 3 hours did not increase either methemoglobin or extravascular lung water levels nor modify lung histology compared with control lambs. Conclusions. Low dose inhaled NO (5-80 ppm) is a selective pulmonary vasodilator reversing both hypoxia- and thromboxane-induced pulmonary hypertension in the awake lamb [corrected].
Direct vasodilatation effect of flosequinan on pulmonary vascular bed. Estimation by digital perfusion images]	Flosequinan (F) is a potent vasodilator and produces hemodynamic improvement when given to patients (pts) with congestive heart failure (CHF) but little is known about its direct effect on the regional pulmonary vascular bed. Pulmonary perfusion in erect position is known to vary according to the changes of pulmonary hemodynamics. To determine the acute effect of F on pulmonary perfusion 17 pts with CHF (NYHA 2-3, ejection fraction 30 +/- 10%) underwent Tc-99m-MAA pulmonary perfusion images in erect position before and 2 hours after administration of 100 mg dose of F. Pulmonary perfusion were assessed by ratio of upper to lower zone counts in the images (U/L). Increase rate of the lower zone area was assessed by delta L/L (delta L, %). delta L was thought to correspond to increase rate of pulmonary perfusion in the lower lung zone. In all pts significant decrease in U/L (0.82 +/- 0.22----0.63 +/- 0.24 p less than 0.001) was noted. delta L was 9.6 +/- 6.4%. Increase in perfusion to the lower lung zone indicated localized vasodilatation effect of F. In 11 pts with basal hyperperfusion area U/L improved from 0.63 +/- 0.08 to 0.49 +/- 0.07 and mean delta L was 9.6 +/- 6.4%. This showed increase of pulmonary perfusion in the lower zone. In 3 pts of 6 pts without basal hyperperfusion area pulmonary perfusion in the lower zone markedly increased and hyperperfusion area noted in the upper zone disappeared after administration of F. delta L was 21, 32 and 29% respectively. This corresponded to the dilation of pulmonary vascular bed in the basal zone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Experimental and clinical studies of coronary circulation after administration of mildronate]	In experiments on dogs, application of the cross-over circulation method revealed that mildronate increased coronary blood flow due to active coronary dilation. In experiments on cats, a cardioprotective effect of mildronate was found, which prevented the development of acute ischemic heart failure by stabilizing the major hemodynamic parameters. Clinical studies of patients with Functional Classes I-III angina provided evidence for positive effects of mildronate on coronary blood flow.
Pharmacologic treatment of heart failure.	An increased understanding of the pathophysiologic changes underlying CHF, advanced monitoring technology, and a wider array of drug therapy have improved the prognosis of patients with this disorder. These advances allow for greater individualization of therapy, improve patient compliance, and lower the incidence of undesirable side effects. Of course, with the increase in complexity of treatment choices comes the need for more knowledgeable practitioners who can select the most appropriate therapeutic approach. All practitioners also must make every effort to educate the patients about their disease, treatments, and necessary lifestyle changes so that optimal benefits can be realized.
Temporal profile of vascular changes induced by systemic nitroglycerin in the meningeal and cortical districts.	Clinical studies indicated that nitric oxide (NO) donors cause regional changes in cerebral blood flow (CBF), similar to those reported in spontaneous migraine. Systemic nitroglycerin (NTG), a NO donor, is a well-accepted experimental model of migraine. In this study we have examined the effects of NTG on the meningeal and cortical blood flow in rats.
Characteristic alteration in the second derivative of photoplethysmogram in children.	 The second derivative of the photoplethysmogram (SDPTG) has been verified as a useful method for analyzing pulse wave form in adults; however, there have been few studies on the SDPTG in children.
Astaxanthin-enriched-diet reduces blood pressure and improves cardiovascular parameters in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of astaxanthin-enriched diet on blood pressure, cardiac hypertrophy, both vascular structure and function and superoxide ((*)O(2-)) production in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). Twelve-week-old SHR were treated for 8 weeks with an astaxanthin-enriched diet (75 or 200mg/kg body weight per day). Systolic blood pressure was monitorized periodically during the study by the tail cuff method. At the end of the study animals were sacrificed and heart, kidneys and aorta were removed. Left ventricular weight/body weight ratio was used as left ventricular hypertrophy index (LVH). Vascular function and structure were studied in conductance (aortic rings) and resistance (renal vascular bed) arteries. Also (*)O(2-) production was evaluated by lucigenin-enhanced chemiluminescence. Systolic blood pressure was lower in astaxanthin-treated groups than the control group from the first week of treatment, and LVH was significantly reduced. Astaxanthin improved endothelial function on resistance arteries, but had no effect on aorta. These effects were accompanied by a decrease in oxidative stress and improvements in NO bioavailability. Taken together, these results show that diet supplemented with astaxanthin has beneficial effects on hypertension, by decreasing blood pressure values, improving cardiovascular remodeling and oxidative stress.
Thrombospondin-1 inhibition of vascular smooth muscle cell responses occurs via modulation of both cAMP and cGMP.	Nitric oxide (NO) drives pro-survival responses in vascular cells and limits platelet adhesion, enhancing blood flow and minimizing thrombosis. The matricellular protein thrombospondin-1 (TSP1), through interaction with its receptor CD47, inhibits soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) activation by NO in vascular cells. In vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) both intracellular cGMP and cAMP regulate adhesion, contractility, proliferation, and migration. cGMP can regulate cAMP through feedback control of hydrolysis. Inhibition of the cAMP phosphodiesterase-4 selectively interfered with the ability of exogenous TSP1 to block NO-driven VSMC adhesion but not cGMP accumulation, suggesting that cAMP also contributes to VSMC regulation by TSP1. Inhibition of phosphodiesterase-4 was sufficient to elevate cAMP levels, and inhibiting guanylyl cyclase or phosphodiesterase-3, or adding exogenous TSP1 reversed this increase in cAMP. Thus, TSP1 regulates VSMC cAMP levels in part via cGMP-dependent inhibition of phosphodiesterase-3. Additionally basal cAMP levels were consistently elevated in both VSMCs and skeletal muscle from TSP1 null mice, and treating null cells with exogenous TSP1 suppressed cAMP levels to those of wild type cells. TSP1 inhibited both forskolin and isoproterenol stimulated increases in cAMP in VSMCs. TSP1 also abrogated forskolin and isoproterenol stimulated vasodilation. Consistent with its ability to directly limit adenylyl cyclase-activated vasodilation, TSP1 also limited cAMP-induced dephosphorylation of myosin light chain-2. These findings demonstrate that TSP1 limits both cGMP and cAMP signaling pathways and functional responses in VSMCs and arteries, by both phosphodiesterase-dependent cross talk between these second messengers and by inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activation.
Pharmacological characterization of VIP and PACAP receptors in the human meningeal and coronary artery.	We pharmacologically characterized pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptides (PACAPs), vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) and the VPAC(1), VPAC(2) and PAC(1) receptors in human meningeal (for their role in migraine) and coronary (for potential side effects) arteries.
The bilirubin-increasing drug atazanavir improves endothelial function in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.	In type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), oxidative stress gives rise to endothelial dysfunction. Bilirubin, a powerful endogenous antioxidant, significantly attenuates endothelial dysfunction in preclinical experiments. The Gilbert syndrome is accompanied by a mild and lifelong hyperbilirubinemia and associated with only one third of the usual cardiovascular mortality risk. The hyperbilirubinemia caused by atazanavir treatment closely resembles the Gilbert syndrome. We thus hypothesized that treatment with atazanavir would ameliorate oxidative stress and vascular inflammation and improve endothelial function in T2DM.
Pomolic acid of Licania pittieri elicits endothelium-dependent relaxation in rat aortic rings.	Pomolic acid has recently shown hypotensive effect in rats. The purpose of this investigation was to determine the vascular effects of this triterpenoid and to examine its mode of action. Functional experiments in rat aortic rings precontracted with norepinephrine were performed to evaluate the vasorelaxant effect of pomolic acid. This triterpenoid induced a vasorelaxation (IC = 2.45 M) in a concentration- and endothelium-dependent manner and showed no effect on contractions evoked by KCl (25 mM). Pre-treatment of aortic rings with L-NAME (100 M), methylene blue (100 M) or glibenclamide (10 M), totally prevented the vasorelaxation induced by pomolic acid, while indomethacin (10 M) had no effect on this response. Additionally, pomolic acid relaxation was unaffected under the muscarinic- and -adrenergic-receptor blocked ensured for atropine and propanolol respectively (10 M each). In contrast, the vasorelaxant effect of pomolic acid was abolished under the purinergic-receptor blocked ensured for suramin (10 M). Finally, apyrase (0.8 U/ml) an enzyme which hydrolyses ATP and ADP did not affect pomolic acid relaxation. In summary, pomolic acid has a potent endothelium-dependent vasorelaxant effect, possibly acting through the direct activation of endothelial purinergic receptors via NO-cGMP signaling pathway, which could be part of the mechanism underlying its hypotensive effect.
Repeated increases in blood flow, independent of exercise, enhance conduit artery vasodilator function in humans.	This study aimed to determine the importance of repeated increases in blood flow to conduit artery adaptation, using an exercise-independent repeated episodic stimulus. Recent studies suggest that exercise training improves vasodilator function of conduit arteries via shear stress-mediated mechanisms. However, exercise is a complex stimulus that may induce shear-independent adaptations. Nine healthy men immersed their forearms in water at 42C for three 30-min sessions/wk across 8 wk. During each session, a pneumatic pressure cuff was inflated around one forearm to unilaterally modulate heating-induced increases in shear. Forearm heating was associated with an increase in brachial artery blood flow (P<0.001) and shear rate (P<0.001) in the uncuffed forearm; this response was attenuated in the cuffed limb (P<0.005). Repeated episodic exposure to bilateral heating induced an increase in endothelium-dependent vasodilation in response to 5-min ischemic (P<0.05) and ischemic handgrip exercise (P<0.005) stimuli in the uncuffed forearm, whereas the 8-wk heating intervention did not influence dilation to either stimulus in the cuffed limb. Endothelium-independent glyceryl trinitrate responses were not altered in either limb. Repeated heating increases blood flow to levels that enhance endothelium-mediated vasodilator function in humans. These findings reinforce the importance of the direct impacts of shear stress on the vascular endothelium in humans.
Time course of asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) and oxidative stress in fructose-hypertensive rats: a model related to metabolic syndrome.	Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) is an endogenous modulator of endothelial function and oxidative stress, and increased levels of this molecule have been reported in some metabolic disorders and cardiovascular diseases. The aim of this work was to analyze the time course of dimethylarginine compounds and oxidative stress levels and the relationship between these and cardiovascular function in fructose-hypertensive rats.
C-reactive protein makes human endothelium stiff and tight.	Elevation of C-reactive protein (CRP) in human blood accompanies inflammatory processes, including cardiovascular diseases. There is increasing evidence that the acute-phase reactant CRP is not only a passive marker protein for systemic inflammation but also affects the vascular system. Further, CRP is an independent risk factor for atherosclerosis and the development of hypertension. Another crucial player in atherosclerotic processes is the mineralocorticoid hormone aldosterone. Even in low physiological concentrations, it stimulates the expression and membrane insertion of the epithelial sodium channel, thereby increasing the mechanical stiffness of endothelial cells. This contributes to the progression of endothelial dysfunction. In the present study, the hypothesis was tested that the acute application of CRP (25 mg/L), in presence of aldosterone (0.5 nmol/L; 24 hour incubation), modifies the mechanical stiffness and permeability of the endothelium. We found that endothelial cells stiffen in response to CRP. In parallel, endothelial epithelial sodium channel is inserted into the plasma membrane, while, surprisingly, the endothelial permeability decreases. CRP actions are prevented either by the inhibition of the intracellular aldosterone receptors using spironolactone (5 nmol/L) or by the inactivation of epithelial sodium channel using specific blockers. In contrast, inhibition of the release of the vasodilating gas nitric oxide via blockade of the phosphoinositide 3-kinase/Akt pathway has no effect on the CRP-induced stiffening of endothelial cells. The data indicate that CRP enhances the effects of aldosterone on the mechanical properties of the endothelium. Thus, CRP could counteract any decrease in arterial blood pressure that accompanies severe acute inflammatory processes.
Vasoconstrictor potential of coronary aspirate from patients undergoing stenting of saphenous vein aortocoronary bypass grafts and its pharmacological attenuation.	Stent implantation into atherosclerotic plaques releases, apart from particulate debris, soluble substances that contribute to impaired microvascular perfusion.
Involvement of endogenous hydrogen sulfide in cigarette smoke-induced changes in airway responsiveness and inflammation of rat lung.	Hydrogen sulfide (HS), recently considered the third endogenous gaseous transmitter, may have an important role in systemic inflammation. We investigated whether endogenous HS may be a crucial mediator in airway responsiveness and airway inflammation in a rat model of chronic exposure to cigarette smoke (CS). Rats randomly divided into control and CS-exposed groups were treated with or without sodium hydrosulfide (NaHS, donor of HS) or propargylglycine (PPG, inhibitor of cystathionine--lyase [CSE], an HS-synthesizing enzyme) for 4-month exposure. Serum HS level and CSE protein expression in lung tissue were higher, by 2.04- and 2.33-fold, respectively, in CS-exposed rats than in controls (P<0.05). Exogenous administration of NaHS to CS-exposed rats alleviated airway reactivity induced by acetylcholine (Ach) or potassium chloride (KCl) by 17.4% and 13.8%, respectively, decreased lung pathology score by 32.7%, inhibited IL-8 and TNF-  concentrations in lung tissue by 34.2% and 31.4%, respectively, as compared with CS-exposed rats (all P<0.05). However, blocking endogenous CSE with PPG in CS-exposed rats increased airway reactivity induced by Ach or KCl, by 24.1% and 24.5%, respectively, and aggravated lung pathology score, by 44.8%, as compared with CS-exposed rats (all P<0.01). Incubation in vitro with NaHS, 1-3 mmol/L, relaxed rat tracheal smooth muscle precontracted by Ach or KCl. However, the NaHS-induced relaxation was not blocked by glibenclamide (10 mol/L), L-NAME (10 mol/L), or ODQ (1 mol/L) or denudation of epithelium. Endogenous HS may have a protective role of anti-inflammation and bronchodilation in chronic CS-induced pulmonary injury.
Epidermal growth factor receptor mediates the vascular dysfunction but not the remodeling induced by aldosterone/salt.	Pathophysiological aldosterone (aldo)/mineralocorticoid receptor signaling has a major impact on the cardiovascular system, resulting in hypertension and vascular remodeling. Mineralocorticoids induce endothelial dysfunction, decreasing vasorelaxation in response to acetylcholine and increasing the response to vasoconstrictors. Activation of the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) is thought to mediate the vascular effects of aldo, but this has yet to be demonstrated in vivo. In this study, we analyzed the molecular and functional vascular consequences of aldo-salt challenge in the waved 2 mouse, a genetic model with a partial loss of EGFR tyrosine kinase activity. Deficient EGFR activity is associated with global oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction. A decrease in EGFR activity did not affect the arterial wall remodeling process induced by aldo-salt. By contrast, normal EGFR activity was required for the aldo-induced enhancement of phenylephrine- and angiotensin II-mediated vasoconstriction. In conclusion, this in vivo study demonstrates that EGFR plays a key role in aldosterone-mediated vascular reactivity.
Effects of a long-term treatment with an antioxidant pyridoindole on vascular responsiveness in diabetes-induced aging rats.	Impaired vascular reactivity is a hallmark of cardiovascular diseases induced by diabetes, which is also an accelerated aging model. This study was designed to investigate the effect of chronic treatment of stobadine, a pyridoindole antioxidant, on vascular responsiveness in diabetic animals. Age- (13-week old) and gender-matched Wistar rats were randomly divided into control and diabetic groups. Streptozotocin (55mg/kg, i.p.) was used to induce experimental diabetes. After induction of diabetes, rats were randomly assigned for receving stobadine (24.7 mg/kg/day, p.o.) or vehicle for 8-10 months. Stobadine treatment significantly reduced the severity of hyperglycemia, heart and kidney weights, systolic blood pressure, and attenuated diabetes-induced loss in body weight gain. Increased vasoconstriction responses to phenylephrine (PE; 10(-8)-10(-5) M) and BayK-8644 (3x10(-7)-3x10(-5) M) were significantly decreased by stobadine treatment in diabetes. Although stobadine treatment increased acetylcholine (ACh; 10(-9)-10(-5) M)-induced relaxation responses, sodium nitroprusside (10(-11)-10(-6) M)-induced relaxations were not affected by the treatment or diabetes. Stobadine treatment markedly reduced A23187 (10(-9)-3x10(-6) M)-induced relaxation responses while it remained unchanged in diabetics compared to controls. The transient vasoconstriction to PE was reduced by cyclopiazonic acid (10(-6) M) or thapsigargin (TH; 10(-6) M) in all groups. TH also inhibited the relaxation to ACh (3x10(-6) M) in control and stobadine-treated diabetic groups. These results suggest that antioxidative and Ca(2+) current regulatory effects of stobadine, contribute to the mechanisms responsible for its beneficial effects in aged diabetic rats.
Salvinorin A produces cerebrovasodilation through activation of nitric oxide synthase,  receptor, and adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channel.	Salvinorin A is a nonopioid, selective  opioid-receptor agonist. Despite its high potential for clinical application, its pharmacologic profile is not well known. In the current study, we hypothesized that salvinorin A dilates pial arteries via activation of nitric oxide synthase, adenosine triphosphate-sensitive potassium channels, and opioid receptors.
Local versus systemic influences on uterine vascular reactivity during pregnancy in the single-horn gravid rat.	This study was conducted to determine whether gestational changes in maternal uterine artery reactivity are primarily driven by local vs. systemic factors. Rats underwent surgical ligation of one oviduct, thereby restricting implantation and pregnancy to one uterine horn while maintaining a gestational endocrine milieu. Uterine arcuate arteries were isolated and cannulated to evaluate reactivity. Vessels from the implanted horn were significantly more sensitive to phenylephrine and less sensitive to sodium nitroprusside than those from the non-implanted horn; endothelial basal calcium levels were only increased in the implanted horn. Conversely, there were no differences in sensitivity to acetylcholine, or its effects on endothelial cell calcium, although efficacy was greater in vessels from the implanted vs. non-implanted horn. These findings demonstrate that local factors are predominant in inducing changes in vascular smooth muscle function, while endothelial adaptations result from an interplay between local and systemic factors, with distinct effects attributable to each.
Influence of anti-inflammatory and vasoactive drugs on microcirculation and angiogenesis after burn in mice.	The treatment of burns remains a challenge. Besides the administration of physiological saline, local disinfection and symptomatic medications, no causal therapy is known to accelerate angiogenesis and wound healing. The aim of this study was to investigate the influences of dilatative and anti-inflammatory acting drugs on microcirculation, angiogenesis and leukocyte behavior, which had shown positive effects in former burn studies.
Role of M1, M3, and M5 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in cholinergic dilation of small arteries studied with gene-targeted mice.	Acetylcholine regulates perfusion of numerous organs via changes in local blood flow involving muscarinic receptor-induced release of vasorelaxing agents from the endothelium. The purpose of the present study was to determine the role of M, M, and M muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in vasodilation of small arteries using gene-targeted mice deficient in either of the three receptor subtypes (M1R(-/-), M3R(-/-), or M5R(-/-) mice, respectively). Muscarinic receptor gene expression was determined in murine cutaneous, skeletal muscle, and renal interlobar arteries using real-time PCR. Moreover, respective arteries from M1R(-/-), M3R(-/-), M5R(-/-), and wild-type mice were isolated, cannulated with micropipettes, and pressurized. Luminal diameter was measured using video microscopy. mRNA for all five muscarinic receptor subtypes was detected in all three vascular preparations from wild-type mice. However, M(3) receptor mRNA was found to be most abundant. Acetylcholine produced dose-dependent dilation in all three vascular preparations from M1R(-/-), M5R(-/-), and wild-type mice. In contrast, cholinergic dilation was virtually abolished in arteries from M3R(-/-) mice. Deletion of either M, M, or M receptor genes did not affect responses to nonmuscarinic vasodilators, such as substance P and nitroprusside. These findings provide the first direct evidence that M receptors mediate cholinergic vasodilation in cutaneous, skeletal muscle, and renal interlobar arteries. In contrast, neither M nor M receptors appear to be involved in cholinergic responses of the three vascular preparations tested.
Reflex systemic sympatho-neural response to brachial adenosine infusion in treated heart failure.	In healthy men, brachial artery adenosine infusion elicits a reflex increase in total body norepinephrine (NE) spillover (TBS) that is blunted by oral angiotensin AT(1) receptor blockade. Our objectives were to determine whether a similar reflex is active in treated heart failure (HF) patients and attenuated by ARB.
Cytosolic phospholipase A2alpha contributes to blood pressure increases and endothelial dysfunction under chronic NO inhibition.	Nitric oxide (NO) is an important modulator of cardiovascular function. In this study, we examined whether cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2), an initial enzyme in the arachidonic acid pathway, is involved in blood pressure (BP) elevation in a murine model of chronic NO inhibition.
Infection-induced coronary dysfunction and systemic inflammation in piglets are dampened in hypercholesterolemic milieu.	The synergism of infection with conventional cardiovascular risk factors in atherosclerosis is much debated. We hypothesized that coronary arterial injury correlates with infection recurrence and pathogen burden and is further aggravated by hypercholesterolemia. Forty-two Gttingen minipigs were assigned to repeated intratracheal inoculation of PBS, Chlamydia pneumoniae (Cpn), or both Cpn and influenza virus at 8, 11, and 14 wk of age. Animals were fed either standard or 2% cholesterol diet (chol-diet). At 19 wk of age coronary vasomotor responses to acetylcholine (ACh) and adenosine were assessed in vivo and blood and tissue samples were collected. Nonparametric tests were used to compare the groups. In cholesterol-fed animals, total cholesterol/HDL was significantly increased in infected animals compared with noninfected animals [3.13 (2.17-3.38) vs. 2.03 (1.53-2.41), respectively; P = 0.01]. C-reactive protein (CRP) rose in infected animals [10.60 (4.96-18.00) vs. 2.47 (1.44-3.01) g/ml in noninfected; P < 0.01] without significant difference between the mono- and coinfected groups. Among coinfected animals, both CRP and haptoglobin were lower in those fed chol-diet than in those fed standard diet (P < 0.05). The vasoconstricting response to ACh was most prominent in coinfected animals {769.3 (594-1,129) cm; P = 0.03 vs. noninfected [342 (309-455) cm] and P = 0.07 vs. monoinfected [415 (252.5-971.8) cm]}. Among monoinfected animals, similar to CRP, a trend for less vasoconstriction was observed in those fed chol-diet (P = 0.08). Coinfection of piglets appears to be associated with more pronounced coronary muscarinic vasomotor dysfunction. In monoinfected animals, use of chol-diet seems to dampen both coronary dysfunction and systemic inflammation induced by infection.
Effects of resveratrol, a grape polyphenol, on uterine contraction and Ca+ mobilization in rats in vivo and in vitro.	Dysmenorrhea is directly related to elevate prostaglandin F (PGF)() levels. In Western medicine, this condition is treated using nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs. Because nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs produce many side effects, Chinese medicinal therapy is considered as a feasible alternative for treating dysmenorrhea. Many special physiological components used in Chinese medicine, such as resveratrol, have been isolated and identified. Resveratrol has many physiological functions, such as antioxidation and anticarcinogenic effects. However, the relationship between uterine smooth muscle contraction and resveratrol remains unknown. Here, we studied the in vitro and in vivo effects of resveratrol on uterine smooth muscle contraction. The uterus was separated from a female Sprague Dawley rat, and uterine smooth muscle contraction activity was measured and recorded. The results demonstrated that 1) resveratrol treatment inhibited PGF()-, oxytocin-, acetylcholine-, and carbachol-induced uterine contractions in rats; 2) resveratrol inhibited uterine contractions stimulated by the Ca(+) channel activator (Bay K 8644) and depolarization in response to high K(+) (KCl); 3) resveratrol inhibited PGF()-induced increases in the [Ca(+)]i in human uterine smooth muscle cells; 4) resveratrol could mimic Ca(+) channel blockers to block Ca(+) influx through voltage-operated Ca(+) channels in the plasma membrane; and 5) resveratrol inhibited PGF()-induced uterine contractions in rats in vivo. Resveratrol inhibited uterine contractions induced by PGF() and high K(+) in a concentration-dependent manner in vitro; furthermore, it inhibited Ca(+)-dependent uterine contractions. Thus, resveratrol consistently suppressed the increases in intracellular Ca(+) concentrations ([Ca(+)]i) induced by PGF() and high K(+) concentrations. It can be assumed that resveratrol probably inhibited uterine contraction by blocking external Ca(+) influx, leading to decreased [Ca(+)]i. Therefore, resveratrol can be considered as a feasible alternative therapeutic agent for dysmenorrhea.
Abnormalities in arterial-ventricular coupling in older healthy persons are attenuated by sodium nitroprusside.	The coupling between arterial elastance (E(A); net afterload) and left ventricular elastance (E(LV); pump performance), known as E(A)/E(LV), is a key determinant of cardiovascular performance and shifts during exercise due to a greater increase in E(LV) versus E(A). This normal exercise-induced reduction in E(A)/E(LV) decreases with advancing age. We hypothesized that sodium nitroprusside (SNP) can acutely ameliorate the age-associated deficits in E(A)/E(LV). At rest and during graded exercise to exhaustion, E(A) was characterized as end-systolic pressure/stroke volume and E(LV) as end-systolic pressure/end-systolic volume. Resting E(A)/E(LV) did not differ between old (70  8 yr, n = 15) and young (30  5 yr, n = 17) subjects because of a tandem increase in E(A) and E(LV) in older subjects. During peak exercise, a blunted increase in E(LV) in old (7.8  3.1 mmHg/ml) versus young (11.4  6.5 mmHg/ml) subjects blunted the normal exercise-induced decline in E(A)/E(LV) in old (0.25  0.11) versus young (0.16  0.05) subjects. SNP administration to older subjects lowered resting E(A)/E(LV) by 31% via a reduction in E(A) (10%) and an increase in E(LV) (47%) and lowered peak exercise E(A)/E(LV) (36%) via an increase in E(LV) (68%) without a change in E(A). Importantly, SNP attenuated the age-associated deficits in E(A)/E(LV) and E(LV) during exercise, and at peak exercise E(A)/E(LV) in older subjects on drug administration did not differ from young subjects without drug administration. In conclusion, some age-associated deficiencies in E(A)/E(LV), E(A), and E(LV), in older subjects can be acutely abolished by SNP infusion. This is relevant to common conditions in older subjects associated with a significant impairment of exercise performance such as frailty or heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.
Retina evokes biphasic relaxations in retinal artery unrelated to endothelium, K(V), K(ATP), K(Ca) channels and methyl palmitate.	Retinal relaxing factor (RRF) is suggested to be released from the retina and to contribute in the maintenance of retinal arterial tone. Herein, we aimed to clarify the effects of retinal tissue in isolated bovine retinal arteries in comparison with choroidal tissue and to evaluate the possible role of endothelium and potassium channels. In parallel, the effects of palmitic acid methyl ester (PAME), a putative vasodilator proposed to be released from the retina, was also examined. A piece of bovine retinal or choroidal tissue was placed within a close proximity on top of retinal arteries mounted in a wire myograph and precontracted with noradrenaline, prostaglandin F(2), endothelin-1, thromboxane A(2) mimetic, U46619 or potassium (K(+)). To elucidate possible mechanisms in the effects of retinal tissue, retinal arteries were either deendothelized or incubated with inhibitors of endothelial vasodilators, i.e. nitric oxide (NO) and prostaglandins, or K(+) channels. Unlike the choroid, retinal tissue produced rapid, biphasic and complete relaxations in isolated bovine retinal arteries precontracted with various spasmogens acting on distinct receptors. Endothelium removal or preincubation of retinal arteries with inhibitors of NO synthase; L-NOARG (10(-4)M), guanylate cyclase; ODQ (10(-5)M) and cyclooxygenase; indomethacin (10(-5)M), did not cause a significant difference in the relaxation profile. Additionally, retinal relaxations remained unchanged in the presence of respective inhibitors of ATP-sensitive (K(ATP)) (glibenclamide, 10(-5)M), voltage-dependent (K(V)) (4-aminopyridine, 210(-3)M), and calcium-activated (K(Ca)) (tetraethylammonium 10mM; charybdotoxin, 10(-7)M; and apamin, 510(-7)M) K(+) channels. Thus, our results provide novel evidence regarding the biphasic relaxing profile of RRF in the retinal artery which was unrelated to endothelium and K(+) channels (K(ATP), K(V) and K(Ca)). Interestingly, PAME (10(-14)-10(-5)M) did not provoke a relaxation in bovine retinal artery suggesting no association with RRF.
The vasorelaxant effect of hydrogen sulfide is enhanced in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats.	Hydrogen sulfide (HS) is an endogenous gas which has potent relaxant effect in vascular and nonvascular smooth muscles. In the present study, we have investigated how streptozotocin (STZ)-induced diabetes affected the relaxant effect of HS in rat isolated thoracic aorta and mesenteric and pulmonary arteries. Diabetes was induced by IV injection of STZ (35 mg/kg). Insulin treatment was applied by using insulin implants. At the end of 4 and 12 weeks, the thoracic aorta and mesenteric and pulmonary arteries were isolated, and the relaxation responses to sodium hydrogen sulfide (NaHS), diazoxide, and acetylcholine were evaluated. The mRNA and protein levels of HS-synthesizing enzymes were also examined by RT-PCR and Western Blot. The relaxation response to NaHS in the arteries isolated from both 4 and 12 week-diabetic rats was increased when compared with that obtained from the control group. Glibenclamide inhibited the relaxation response to NaHS in the arteries isolated from either diabetic or non-diabetic group of rats. Concurrent treatment of insulin to STZ-injected rats prevented the potentiation of the relaxant effect of NaHS in the arteries. However, acetylcholine and diazoxide-induced relaxation responses were not altered in diabetic group of rats. The mRNA and protein levels of HS-synthesizing enzymes were also not altered in diabetic rats. STZ-induced experimental diabetes in rats resulted in the potentiation of the relaxation response to HS in vascular tissues. The potentiated relaxation to HS in diabetic arteries may play a role in vascular complications frequently seen in severe diabetes.
Changes in arterial stiffness following dialysis in relation to overhydration and to endothelial function.	Cardiovascular (CV) morbidity and mortality are greatly enhanced in patients with chronic kidney disease, partly due to increased arterial stiffness.
Impact of wall thickness on conduit artery function in humans: is there a "Folkow" effect?	Regional heterogeneity in wall architecture and thickness may be present between conduit arteries in the upper and lower limbs in humans. These differences in wall architecture may, in turn, influence vascular responsiveness. Folkow proposed in the 1950s that heterogeneity in wall-to-lumen ratio (W:L) could contribute to differences in vascular responsiveness, but this hypothesis has never been directly confirmed in vivo. Our first aim was to examine wall thickness and W:L across arteries in the lower (common and superficial femoral) and upper limbs (brachial and radial) of healthy men (n=35) using high resolution ultrasound. In a subgroup (n=20) we examined the relationship between W:L of these arteries, physiological (flow-mediated dilation, FMD) and pharmacological vasodilation (glyceryl trinitrate, GTN). Diameter and wall thickness differed significantly across all arteries (ANOVA P<0.001), with smaller arteries having a relatively larger wall thickness. Moreover, we found a significant correlation between W:L and the FMD-response (r=0.55, P<0.001), which remained significant after correcting for the eliciting shear stress (r=0.47, P<0.001), indicating that W:L/FMD relationship was not primarily related to the impact of diameter on the shear rate stimulus to FMD. W:L also correlated strongly with the GTN-response (r=0.56, P<0.001) across all arteries studied. These results indicate that regional heterogeneity exists in W:L within, but also between, limbs. More importantly, differences in W:L contribute to differences in vascular functional responses, reinforcing the conceptual proposal of Folkow, who suggested that arteries with larger W:L exhibit exaggerated responses to vasoactive stimuli.
Predictive integration of gene functional similarity and co-expression defines treatment response of endothelial progenitor cells.	Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) have been implicated in different processes crucial to vasculature repair, which may offer the basis for new therapeutic strategies in cardiovascular disease. Despite advances facilitated by functional genomics, there is a lack of systems-level understanding of treatment response mechanisms of EPCs. In this research we aimed to characterize the EPCs response to adenosine (Ado), a cardioprotective factor, based on the systems-level integration of gene expression data and prior functional knowledge. Specifically, we set out to identify novel biosignatures of Ado-treatment response in EPCs.
Sildenafil citrate decreases sFlt-1 and sEng in pregnant l-NAME treated Sprague-Dawley rats.	We have previously shown that sildenafil citrate improves various fetal outcomes in pregnant, L-NAME treated, Sprague-Dawley rats. We therefore aimed to identify which component/s of this diverse pathophysiologic cascade is/are improved by this drug.
Corneal endothelial autocrine VIP enhances its integrity in stored human donor corneoscleral explant.	To demonstrate corneal endothelial (CE) integrity enhanced during eye banking by a brief treatment of human donor corneoscleral explant (explant) with CE autocrine trophic factor vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP).
Endothelial dysfunction in rat adjuvant-induced arthritis: up-regulation of the vascular arginase pathway.	To investigate whether arginase pathway abnormalities occur in vessels from rats with adjuvant-induced arthritis (AIA), and to determine whether the up-regulation of arginase, which reciprocally regulates nitric oxide synthase (NOS) by competing for the same substrate, L-arginine, contributes to endothelial dysfunction in AIA.
Adenosine involvement on bronchial reactivity modulation by diesel exhaust.	In recent decades, epidemiologic investigations have suggested a strong relationship between air pollution and an increase in the prevalence of allergic rhinitis and asthma.
Smooth muscle Ca(2+) -activated and voltage-gated K+ channels modulate conducted dilation in rat isolated small mesenteric arteries.	 To assess the influence of blocking smooth muscle large conductance Ca(2+) -activated K+ channels and voltage-gated K+ channels on the conducted dilation to ACh and isoproterenol.
Sympathetic -nAChRs mediate cerebral neurogenic nitrergic vasodilation in the swine.	The (7)-nicotinic ACh receptor ((7)-nAChR) on sympathetic neurons innervating basilar arteries of pigs crossed bred between Landrace and Yorkshire (LY) is known to mediate nicotine-induced, -amyloid (A)-sensitive nitrergic neurogenic vasodilation. Preliminary studies, however, demonstrated that nicotine-induced cerebral vasodilation in pigs crossbred among Landrace, Yorkshire, and Duroc (LYD) was insensitive to A and -bungarotoxin (-BGTX). We investigated nAChR subtype on sympathetic neurons innervating LYD basilar arteries. Nicotine-induced relaxation of porcine isolated basilar arteries was examined by tissue bath myography, inward currents on nAChR-expressing oocytes by two-electrode voltage recording, and mRNA and protein expression in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) and middle cervical ganglion (MCG) by reverse transcription PCR and Western blotting. Nicotine-induced basilar arterial relaxation was not affected by A, -BGTX, and -conotoxin IMI ((7)-nAChR antagonists), or -conotoxin AuIB ((3)(4)-nAChR antagonist) but was inhibited by tropinone and tropane ((3)-containing nAChR antagonists) and -conotoxin MII (selective (3)(2)-nAChR antagonist). Nicotine-induced inward currents in (3)(2)-nAChR-expressing oocytes were inhibited by -conotoxin MII but not by -BGTX, A, or -conotoxin AuIB. mRNAs of (3)-, (7)-, (2)-, and (4)-subunits were expressed in both SCGs and MCGs with significantly higher mRNAs of (3)-, (2)-, and (4)-subunits than that of (7)-subunit. The A-insensitive sympathetic (3)(2)-nAChR mediates nicotine-induced cerebral nitrergic neurogenic vasodilation in LYD pigs. The different finding from A-sensitive (7)-nAChR in basilar arteries of LY pigs may offer a partial explanation for different sensitivities of individuals to A in causing diminished cerebral nitrergic vasodilation in diseases involving A.
Effect of age and gender on the progression of adult vascular dysfunction in a mouse model of fetal programming lacking endothelial nitric oxide synthase.	The objective of this study was to investigate vascular function at different ages in a transgenic murine model of fetal vascular programming using a model of uteroplacental insufficiency induced by lack of endothelial nitric oxide synthase. Homozygous NOS3 knockout (KO) and wild-type (WT) mice were cross bred to produce WT, KO, and heterozygous that developed in WT (KOP) or KO (KOM) mothers. Male/female offspring from the four groups were killed at 7, 14, and 21 wk of age (n = 5-10/group), and carotid arteries were used for in vitro vascular studies. Responses to phenylephrine (PE), with/without N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), angiotensin (ANG), acetylcholine (ACh), sodium nitroprusside, and isoproterenol (ISO) were studied. At 7 wk, only KO offspring showed higher contractile response to PE, whereas, at 14 and 21 wk, both KO and KOM had a higher response. Incubation with L-NAME abolished these differences. ANG contraction was higher in male KO in all age groups and in 21-wk-old females. Relaxation to ACh and ISO was absent in KO, and significantly decreased in KOM offspring in all age groups compared with KOP and WT, independent of gender. Sodium nitroprusside was not different between groups. The effect of the altered intrauterine environment on the development of abnormal vascular function was limited at 7 wk of age and most evident at 14 wk; further deterioration was limited to ANG-mediated vascular contractility in KO offspring. Our findings provide some hope that at least the first seven postnatal weeks may be an appropriate therapeutic window to prevent cardiovascular disease later in life.
Dysfunction of endothelium-dependent relaxation to insulin via PKC-mediated GRK2/Akt activation in aortas of ob/ob mice.	In diabetic states, hyperinsulinemia may negatively regulate Akt/endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) activation. Our main aim was to investigate whether and how insulin might negatively regulate Akt/eNOS activities via G protein-coupled receptor kinase 2 (GRK2) in aortas from ob/ob mice. Endothelium-dependent relaxation was measured in aortic rings from ob/ob mice (a type 2 diabetes model). GRK2, -arrestin2, and Akt/eNOS signaling-pathway protein levels and activities were mainly assayed by Western blotting. Plasma insulin was significantly elevated in ob/ob mice. Insulin-induced relaxation was significantly decreased in the ob/ob aortas [vs. age-matched control (lean) ones]. The response in ob/ob aortas was enhanced by PKC inhibitor or GRK2 inhibitor. Akt (at Thr(308)) phosphorylation and eNOS (at Ser(1177)) phosphorylation, and also the -arrestin2 protein level, were markedly decreased in the membrane fraction of insulin-stimulated ob/ob aortas (vs. insulin-stimulated lean ones). These membrane-fraction expressions were enhanced by GRK2 inhibitor and by PKC inhibitor in the ob/ob group but not in the lean group. PKC activity was much greater in ob/ob than in lean aortas. GRK2 protein and activity levels were increased in ob/ob and were greatly reduced by GRK2 inhibitor or PKC inhibitor pretreatment. These results suggest that in the aorta in diabetic mice with hyperinsulinemia an upregulation of GRK2 and a decrease in -arrestin2 inhibit insulin-induced stimulation of the Akt/eNOS pathway and that GRK2 overactivation may result from an increase in PKC activity.
Effect of clazosentan, a selective endothelin A receptor antagonist, and tezosentan, a dual endothelin A/B antagonist, on pulsatile shear stress induced constriction of the iliac in the anaesthetized pig.	1. The effects of changes in mean and pulsatile shear stress on the diameter of the iliac of the anaesthetized pig were investigated in the presence of clazosentan and tezosentan. 2. A total of 17 pigs were used. Mean shear stress was increased by infusing acetylcholine downstream (2-20 g/min) through the deep femoral artery. Pulsatile shear stress was enhanced first by injecting varying volumes (1-10 mL) of calcium gluconate (stock 10 mg/mL) directly into the left ventricle. Second, by electrical stimulation of the left sympathetic nerves to the heart (1-16 Hz, 4 min duration, supramaximal voltage). 3. An increase in mean shear stress induced a vasodilation that was not altered significantly by the selective endothelin A antagonist clazosentan (10 mg/kg i.v.). Similarly, the vasoconstriction induced by an increase in pulsatile shear stress brought about by either calcium gluconate injections or left sympathetic nerve stimulation was unaffected by clazosentan. However, tezosentan (10 mg/kg i.v.), significantly attenuated the vasoconstriction induced by an increase in pulsatile shear stress. 4. In conclusion, an increase in pulsatile shear stress causes vasoconstriction of the pig iliac artery, which is attenuated by dual endothelin receptor antagonism, but not by specific endothelin A blockade.
Exercise training improves endothelial function via adiponectin-dependent and independent pathways in type 2 diabetic mice.	Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is a leading risk factor for a variety of cardiovascular diseases including coronary heart disease and atherosclerosis. Exercise training (ET) has a beneficial effect on these disorders, but the basis for this effect is not fully understood. This study was designed to investigate whether the ET abates endothelial dysfunction in the aorta in T2D. Heterozygous controls (m Lepr(db)) and type 2 diabetic mice (db/db; Lepr(db)) were either exercise entrained by forced treadmill exercise or remained sedentary for 10 wk. Ex vivo functional assessment of aortic rings showed that ET restored acetylcholine-induced endothelial-dependent vasodilation of diabetic mice. Although the protein expression of endothelial nitric oxide synthase did not increase, ET reduced both IFN- and superoxide production by inhibiting gp91(phox) protein levels. In addition, ET increased the expression of adiponectin (APN) and the antioxidant enzyme, SOD-1. To investigate whether these beneficial effects of ET are APN dependent, we used adiponectin knockout (APNKO) mice. Indeed, impaired endothelial-dependent vasodilation occurred in APNKO mice, suggesting that APN plays a central role in prevention of endothelial dysfunction. APNKO mice also showed increased protein expression of IFN-, gp91(phox), and nitrotyrosine but protein expression of SOD-1 and -3 were comparable between wild-type and APNKO. These findings in the aorta imply that APN suppresses inflammation and oxidative stress in the aorta, but not SOD-1 and -3. Thus ET improves endothelial function in the aorta in T2D via both APN-dependent and independent pathways. This improvement is due to the effects of ET in inhibiting inflammation and oxidative stress (APN-dependent) as well as in improving antioxidant enzyme (APN-independent) performance in T2D.
Epoxyeicosatrienoic acid-dependent cerebral vasodilation evoked by metabotropic glutamate receptor activation in vivo.	Group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluR) on astrocytes have been shown to participate in cerebral vasodilation to neuronal activation in brain slices. Pharmacological stimulation of mGluR in brain slices can produce arteriolar constriction or dilation depending on the initial degree of vascular tone. Here, we examined whether pharmacological stimulation of mGluR in vivo increases cerebral blood flow. A 1-mM solution of the group I mGluR agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) superfused at 5 l/min over the cortical surface of anesthetized rats produced a 30  2% (SE) increase in blood flow measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry after 15-20 min. The response was completely blocked by superfusion of group I mGluR antagonists and attenuated by superfusion of an epoxyeicosatrienoic acid (EET) antagonist (5  4%), an EET synthesis inhibitor (11  3%), and a cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitor (15  3%). The peak blood flow response was not significantly affected by administration of inhibitors of cyclooxygenase-1, neuronal nitric oxide synthase, heme oxygenase, adenosine A(2B) receptors, or an inhibitor of the synthesis of 20-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (20-HETE). The blood flow response gradually waned following 30-60 min of DHPG superfusion. This loss of the flow response was attenuated by a 20-HETE synthesis inhibitor and was prevented by superfusion of an inhibitor of epoxide hydrolase, which hydrolyzes EETs. These results indicate that pharmacological stimulation of mGluR in vivo increases cerebral blood flow and that the response depends on the release of EETs and a metabolite of cyclooxygenase-2. Epoxide hydrolase activity and 20-HETE synthesis limit the duration of the response to prolonged mGluR activation.
Acute change in vascular tone alters intima-media thickness.	Atherosclerosis is a lifelong process involving artery wall thickening. Increased wall thickness has been widely adopted as a preclinical surrogate marker of atherosclerosis. A prerequisite for such a surrogate marker is that it is a structural characteristic of the vessel wall that is not subject to acute changes. The purpose of this study was to examine the acute effects of vasodilator drug administration on wall thickness of the carotid and superficial femoral arteries. High-resolution ultrasound was used to examine carotid and femoral artery diameters and wall thickness in 15 young (254 years of age) and 15 older (706 years of age) healthy men who were administered sublingual glyceryl trinitrate. Diameter and wall thickness were collected before and across a 10-minute period after glyceryl trinitrate administration. Glyceryl trinitrate induced a significant increase in carotid and femoral artery diameter and a decrease in wall thickness in both young and older men (both P<0.001). The latter was significantly larger than in young men (both P<0.01). The changes in carotid artery wall thickness in both young (3523 m) and older men (7146 m) approximate those considered prognostically relevant. Collectively, our data suggest that vasodilator drug administration induces a rapid and marked decrease in wall thickness, which mirrors conduit artery vasodilation in both young and older men. This finding confirms the presence of acute changes in wall thickness and has important implications for future studies that assess artery wall characteristics as a surrogate measure of atherosclerosis.
The interaction between human urotensin II and vasodilator agents in human internal mammary artery with possible clinical implications.	Graft spasm in the internal mammary artery (IMA) may occur after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We investigated the effect of human urotensin II (hU-II), a cyclic peptide hormone present in human blood and tissues, and the effect of vasodilators on hU-II-mediated response in human IMA.
Left and right ventricular power: outputs are the strongest hemodynamic correlates to allow identification of acute responders to vasodilator treatment in idiopathic pulmonary arterial hypertension.	Despite the prognostic importance of traditionally derived measurements, the significance of right heart catheterization (RHC) remains controversial. Thus, a continued search for hemodynamic markers that define better responsive patients is required. Since, right ventricular failure is the most fatal pathway, right (RVPO) and left (LVPO) ventricular power output are parameters that could provide input for a better understanding of the hemodynamics involved in idiopathic pulmonary artery hypertension (IPAH).
Comparison of selective versus dual endothelin receptor antagonism on cerebrovascular dysfunction in diabetes.	Cerebrovascular tone plays a key role in controlling cerebral blood flow. Our studies have demonstrated that the endothelin system is upregulated in type 2 diabetes leading to increased sensitivity to endothelin-1 and decreased relaxation in basilar artery. While chronic endothelin A receptor blockade restored relaxation, selective endothelin B receptor blockade caused paradoxical constriction in diabetes. Whether this effect was due to activation of endothelin A receptors in the presence of endothelin B receptor blockade or due to the loss of vasculoprotective effects of endothelin B receptors remained unknown. The current study hypothesizes that due to the antagonism of the vasculoprotective endothelin receptor B, dual blockade will not be as effective as selective endothelin receptor A antagonism in improving cerebrovascular dysfunction in type 2 diabetes.
Clazosentan, a novel endothelin A antagonist, improves cerebral blood flow and behavior after traumatic brain injury.	The purpose of this study was to test the efficacy of a novel endothelin receptor A antagonist on blood flow and behavioral outcome given 30minutes following traumatic brain injury.
Different potassium channels are involved in relaxation of rat renal artery induced by P1075.	The ATP-sensitive K(+) channels opener (K(ATP)CO), P1075 [N-cyano-N'-(1,1-dimethylpropyl)-N-3-pyridylguanidine], has been shown to cause relaxation of various isolated animal and human blood vessels by opening of vascular smooth muscle ATP-sensitive K(+) (K(ATP)) channels. In addition to the well-known effect on the opening of K(ATP) channels, it has been reported that vasorelaxation induced by some of the K(ATP)COs includes some other K(+) channel subtypes. Given that there is still no information on other types of K(+) channels possibly involved in the mechanism of relaxation induced by P1075, this study was designed to examine the effects of P1075 on the rat renal artery with endothelium and with denuded endothelium and to define the contribution of different K(+) channel subtypes in the P1075 action on this blood vessel. Our results show that P1075 induced a concentration-dependent relaxation of rat renal artery rings pre-contracted by phenylephrine. Glibenclamide, a selective K(ATP) channels inhibitor, partly antagonized the relaxation of rat renal artery induced by P1075. Tetraethylammonium (TEA), a non-selective inhibitor of Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channels, as well as iberiotoxin, a most selective blocker of large-conductance Ca(2+) -activated K(+) (BK(Ca)) channels, did not abolish the effect of P1075 on rat renal artery. In contrast, a non-selective blocker of voltage-gated K(+) (K(V)) channels, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), as well as margatoxin, a potent inhibitor of K(V)1.3 channels, caused partial inhibition of the P1075-induced relaxation of rat renal artery. In addition, in this study, P1075 relaxed contractions induced by 20 mM K(+) , but had no effect on contractions induced by 80 mM K(+). Our results showed that P1075 induced strong endothelium-independent relaxation of rat renal artery. It seems that K(ATP), 4-AP- and margatoxin-sensitive K(+) channels located in vascular smooth muscle mediated the relaxation of rat renal artery induced by P1075.
Effect of pentoxifylline on histopathological changes in steroid-induced osteonecrosis of femoral head: experimental study in chicken.	Pentoxifylline (PTX) is a derivative of methylxanthine and is used in peripheral vascular and cerebrovascular diseases for its effect on the regulation of blood circulation. We investigated whether PTX could be beneficial for femoral head osteonecrosis associated with steroid through these effects.
Impact of stenting and oral sirolimus on endothelium-dependent and independent coronary vasomotion.	There is no consensus regarding the impact of stenting on long-term endothelial function. There have been reports of increased endothelial dysfunction with sirolimus-eluting stents as compared to bare metal stenting (BMS).
Disrupted regulation of ghrelin production under antihypertensive treatment in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Ghrelin is an acylated peptide hormone mainly secreted from the stomach. When administrated externally it modulates vascular tone mainly through the regulation of autonomic nerve activity. However, the effects of blood pressure (BP) on the production and secretion of ghrelin remain to be clarified.
Analysis of responses to glyceryl trinitrate and sodium nitrite in the intact chest rat.	Responses to glyceryl trinitrate/nitroglycerin (GTN), S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), and sodium nitrite were compared in the intact chest rat. The iv injections of GTN, sodium nitrite, and GSNO produced dose-dependent decreases in pulmonary and systemic arterial pressures. In as much as cardiac output was not reduced, the decreases in pulmonary and systemic arterial pressures indicate that GTN, sodium nitrite, and GSNO have significant vasodilator activity in the pulmonary and systemic vascular beds in the rat. Responses to GTN were attenuated by cyanamide, but not allopurinol, whereas responses to nitrite formed by the metabolism of GTN were attenuated by allopurinol and cyanamide. The results with allopurinol and cyanamide suggest that only mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase is involved in the bioactivation of GTN, sodium nitrite, and GSNO, whereas both pathways are involved in the bioactivation of nitrite anion in the intact rat. The comparison of vasodilator activity indicates that GSNO and GTN are more than 1000-fold more potent than sodium nitrite in decreasing pulmonary and systemic arterial pressures in the rat. Following administration of 1H-[1,2,4]-oxadizaolo[4,3-]quinoxaline-1-one (ODQ), responses to GTN were significantly attenuated, indicating that responses are mediated by the activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase. These data suggest that the reduction of nitrite to nitric oxide formed from the metabolism of GTN, cannot account for the vasodilator activity of GTN in the intact rat and that another mechanism; perhaps the formation of an S-NO, may mediate the vasodilator response to GTN in this species.
Isoflurane pretreatment preserves adenosine triphosphate-sensitive K(+) channel function in the human artery exposed to oxidative stress caused by high glucose levels.	Adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive K(+) channels contribute to significant regulatory mechanisms related to organ blood flow in both physiological and pathological conditions. High glucose impairs arterial ATP-sensitive K(+) channel activity via superoxide production. However, the effects of anesthetics on this pathological process have not been evaluated in humans. In the present study, we investigated whether pretreatment with the volatile anesthetic isoflurane preserves ATP-sensitive K(+) channel activity in the human artery exposed to oxidative stress caused by high glucose.
Vasorelaxant action of the total alkaloid fraction obtained from Solanum paludosum Moric. (Solanaceae) involves NO/cGMP/PKG pathway and potassium channels.	Solanum paludosum Moric. (jurubeba-roxa) is commonly used to treat hypertension as a substitute for Solanum paniculatum L. (jurubeba verdadeira). The total ethanolic extract from the root bark of Solanum paludosum have been found to cause hypotension in rats.
Sustained activation of AMPK ameliorates age-associated vascular endothelial dysfunction via a nitric oxide-independent mechanism.	Exercise restores endothelium-dependent dilation (EDD) in old mice by reducing oxidative stress and increasing nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability. Adenosine monophosphate protein kinase (AMPK) activation mimics some effects of exercise. Old (28-30 months) B6D2F1 mice had reduced arterial AMPK expression and superoxide-mediated suppression of EDD vs. young (3-6 months) controls. Pharmacological activation of AMPK by aminoimidazole carboxamide ribonucleotide (AICAR) for 2 weeks increased arterial AMPK and reversed this superoxide-induced impairment of EDD. The improvement in EDD was independent of NO or prostaglandin signaling, suggesting enhanced endothelium-dependent hyperpolarizing factor-related dilation. AMPK activation may represent a novel therapy for treating age-associated vascular dysfunction.
Dietary obesity increases NO and inhibits BKCa-mediated, endothelium-dependent dilation in rat cremaster muscle artery: association with caveolins and caveolae.	Obesity is a risk factor for hypertension and other vascular disease. The aim of this study was to examine the effect of diet-induced obesity on endothelium-dependent dilation of rat cremaster muscle arterioles. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (213  1 g) were fed a cafeteria-style high-fat or control diet for 16-20 wk. Control rats weighed 558  7 g compared with obese rats 762  12 g (n = 52-56; P < 0.05). Diet-induced obesity had no effect on acetylcholine (ACh)-induced dilation of isolated, pressurized (70 mmHg) arterioles, but sodium nitroprusside (SNP)-induced vasodilation was enhanced. ACh-induced dilation of arterioles from control rats was abolished by a combination of the K(Ca) blockers apamin, 1-[(2-chlorophenyl)diphenylmethyl]-1H-pyrazole (TRAM-34), and iberiotoxin (IBTX; all 0.1 mol/l), with no apparent role for nitric oxide (NO). In arterioles from obese rats, however, IBTX had no effect on responses to ACh while the NO synthase (NOS)/guanylate cyclase inhibitors N()-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 100 mol/l)/1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ; 10 mol/l) partially inhibited ACh-induced dilation. Furthermore, NOS activity (but not endothelial NOS expression) was increased in arteries from obese rats. L-NAME/ODQ alone or removal of the endothelium constricted arterioles from obese but not control rats. Expression of caveolin-1 and -2 oligomers (but not monomers or caveolin-3) was increased in arterioles from obese rats. The number of caveolae was reduced in the endothelium of arteries, and caveolae density was increased at the ends of smooth muscle cells from obese rats. Diet-induced obesity abolished the contribution of large-conductance Ca(2+)-activated K(+) channel to ACh-mediated endothelium-dependent dilation of rat cremaster muscle arterioles, while increasing NOS activity and inducing an NO-dependent component.
Endothelial-dependent vasomotion in a coronary segment treated by ABSORB everolimus-eluting bioresorbable vascular scaffold system is related to plaque composition at the time of bioresorption of the polymer: indirect finding of vascular reparative therapy?	To analyse the vasoreactivity of a coronary segment, previously scaffolded by the ABSORB bioresorbable vascular scaffold (BVS) device, in relationship to its intravascular ultrasound-virtual histology (IVUS-VH) composition and reduction in greyscale echogenicity of the struts. Coronary segments, transiently scaffolded by a polymeric device, may in the long-term recover a normal vasomotor tone. Recovery of a normal endothelial-dependent vasomotion may be enabled by scaffold bioresorption, composition of the underlying tissue, or a combination of both mechanisms.
Blood flow augmentation by intrinsic venular contraction in vivo.	Venomotion, spontaneous cyclic contractions of venules, was first observed in the bat wing 160 years ago. Of all the functional roles proposed since then, propulsion of blood by venomotion remains the most controversial. Common animal models that require anesthesia and surgery have failed to provide evidence for venular pumping of blood. To determine whether venomotion actively pumps blood in a minimally invasive, unanesthetized animal model, we reintroduced the batwing model. We evaluated the temporal and functional relationship between the venous contraction cycle and blood flow and luminal pressure. Furthermore, we determined the effect of inhibiting venomotion on blood flow. We found that the active venous contractions produced an increase in the blood flow and exhibited temporal vessel diameter-blood velocity and pressure relationships characteristic of a peristaltic pump. The presence of valves, a characteristic of reciprocating pumps, enhances the efficiency of the venular peristaltic pump by preventing retrograde flow. Instead of increasing blood flow by decreasing passive resistance, venular dilation with locally applied sodium nitroprusside decreased blood flow. Taken together, these observations provide evidence for active venular pumping of blood. Although strong venomotion may be unique to bats, venomotion has also been inferred from venous pressure oscillations in other animal models. The conventional paradigm of microvascular pressure and flow regulation assumes venules only act as passive resistors, a proposition that must be reevaluated in the presence of significant venomotion.
Magnesium and diltiazem relaxes phenylephrine-precontracted rat aortic rings.	Perioperative vasospasm during cardiovascular surgery is a challenging problem. Several vasodilator agents are frequently utilized for its prevention in surgical practice. Magnesium and diltiazem both have known potential vasorelaxant effects. We planned to compare the efficacy of diltiazem and magnesium in relieving phenylephrine-precontracted rat aortic rings. Ten young adult female Wistar albino rats weighing 230-260 g were used in this study. The aortic rings in the organ bath equilibrated and reached their baseline tension. Precontraction was induced by 0.001 mmol/l phenylephrine and cumulative concentration-relaxation curves were obtained by consecutively increasing the addition of either diltiazem (10(-6)-0.1 mmol/l) or magnesium (0.1-10 mmol/l). The mean maximal relaxation responses observed by diltiazem and magnesium on separate aortic rings were 90  3 and 53  2%, respectively. The calculated EC50 of diltiazem was 0.01035 mmol/l, whereas the EC50 of magnesium was 4.064 mmol/l (P < 0.05). Both magnesium and diltiazem produced vasorelaxation on phenylephrine-precontracted rat aortic rings in this study, but the potency of diltiazem regarding the EC50 value was significantly higher than that of magnesium. Magnesium could be a candidate together with diltiazem to inhibit vasospasm on arterial grafts during coronary bypass surgery.
Effect of sublingual nitrate on respiratory reflexes arising from stimulation of juxta-pulmonary capillary (J) receptors by i.v. lobeline and short duration exercise.	Juxta-pulmonary capillary (J or pulmonary C fiber) receptors are stimulated by an increase in pulmonary blood flow and give rise to respiratory acceleration and related sensations and inhibit exercise. However, the reverse, i.e., the effect of reducing pulmonary blood flow on their reflexes, is as yet not known. This was investigated by carrying out a placebo-controlled study on the acute effects of a single dose (0.4 mg) of sublingual glyceryl nitrate (GTN), known to shift blood from the central to the peripheral circulation, on the respiratory parameters of exercising healthy subjects and on their responses to i.v. lobeline. In 10 subjects, GTN use delayed the first appearance of respiratory sensations from 9.08  0.9 min to 11 min (P=0.002), reduced the increase in minute ventilation by the end of 10 min of exercise (P=0.003) and increased its duration by 1-4s and doubled it in the remaining one subject. In a majority of 8 of them, the effect of GTN on i.v. lobeline-induced respiratory reflexes and sensations was a significant increase in the dose required (P=0.006) for producing threshold effects and in the latency of their appearance (P=0.003). The latter feature points to a reduction in blood flow in the lung parenchyma where these receptors are located and to which they are sensitive. As this would have led to a reduced stimulation of these receptors, it would account for the delayed appearance of respiratory symptoms, a reduction in ventilatory increase and prolongation of exercise duration. We demonstrated a mechanism of reducing the stimulus level of J receptors by reducing pulmonary blood flow by means of pharmacological sequestration with GTN use, which then led to a reduction in the magnitude of respiratory and viscerosomatic reflexes, while noting at the same time that changes in blood flow in the pulmonary bed do not directly influence limb muscles, tendons and joints which also determine exercise output.
Essential role of bone marrow for microvascular endothelial and metabolic functions in mice.	We have previously demonstrated that the importance of endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) increases as the vessel size decreases and that endothelium-derived hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) is an EDHF in animals and humans, for which endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is the major source. Recent studies have suggested the important role of the bone marrow (BM) in modulating cardiovascular and metabolic functions.
Low voltage vagal nerve stimulation reduces bronchoconstriction in guinea pigs through catecholamine release.	 Electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve at relatively high voltages (e.g., >10V) can induce bronchoconstriction. However, low voltage (2V) vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) can attenuate histamine-invoked bronchoconstriction. Here, we identify the mechanism for this inhibition.
Interactome: Smart hematophagous triatomine salivary gland molecules counteract human hemostasis during meal acquisition.	Human populations are constantly plagued by hematophagous insects' bites, in particular the triatomine insects that are vectors of the Trypanosoma cruzi agent in Chagas disease. The pharmacologically-active molecules present in the salivary glands of hematophagous insects are injected into the human skin to initiate acquisition of blood meals. Sets of vasodilators, anti-platelet aggregators, anti-coagulants, immunogenic polypeptides, anesthetics, odorants, antibiotics, and detoxifying molecules have been disclosed with the aid of proteomics and recombinant cDNA techniques. These molecules can provide insights about the insect-pathogen-host interactions essential for understanding the physiopathology of the insect bite. The data and information presented in this review aim for the development of new drugs to prevent insect bites and the insect-transmitted endemic of Chagas disease.
Influence of constriction, wall tension, smooth muscle activation and cellular deformation on rat resistance artery vasodilator reactivity.	This study investigated how vasoconstriction (tone), wall tension, smooth muscle activation, and vascular wall deformation influence resistance artery vasodilator reactivity. Resistance arteries, from two different regional circulations (splanchnic, uterine) and from pregnant and non-pregnant rats, were cannulated and pressurized, or mounted on a wire myograph under isometric conditions prior to being exposed to both endothelium-dependent (acetylcholine, ACh) and -independent (sodium nitroprusside, SNP) vasodilator agonists. A consistent pattern of reduced vasodilator sensitivity was noted as a function of extent of preconstriction for both agonists noted in pressurized arteries. A similar pattern regarding activation was noted in wire-mounted arteries in response to SNP but not ACh. Wall tension proved to be a major determinant of vascular smooth muscle vasodilator reactivity and its normalization reversed this pattern, as more constricted vessels were more sensitive to ACh relaxation without any change in SNP sensitivity, suggesting that endothelial deformation secondary to vasoconstriction augments its vasodilator output. To our knowledge, this is the first study to dissect out the complex interplay between biophysical forces impinging on VSM (pressure, wall tension), the ambient level of tone (vasoconstriction, smooth muscle cell activation), and consequences of cellular (particularly endothelial) deformation secondary to constriction in determining resistance artery vasodilatory reactivity.
Pulmonary and cardiovascular responses of rats to inhalation of a commercial antimicrobial spray containing titanium dioxide nanoparticles.	Our laboratory has previously demonstrated that application of an antimicrobial spray product containing titanium dioxide (TiO(2)) generates an aerosol of titanium dioxide in the breathing zone of the applicator. The present report describes the design of an automated spray system and the characterization of the aerosol delivered to a whole body inhalation chamber. This system produced stable airborne levels of TiO(2) particles with a median count size diameter of 110 nm. Rats were exposed to 314 mg/m(3) min (low dose), 826 mg/m(3) min (medium dose), and 3638 mg/m(3) min (high dose) of TiO(2) under the following conditions: 2.62 mg/m(3) for 2 h, 1.72 mg/m(3) 4 h/day for 2 days, and 3.79 mg/m(3) 4 h/day for 4 days, respectively. Pulmonary (breathing rate, specific airway resistance, inflammation, and lung damage) and cardiovascular (the responsiveness of the tail artery to constrictor or dilatory agents) endpoints were monitored 24 h post-exposure. No significant pulmonary or cardiovascular changes were noted at low and middle dose levels. However, the high dose caused significant increases in breathing rate, pulmonary inflammation, and lung cell injury. Results suggest that occasional consumer use of this antimicrobial spray product should not be a hazard. However, extended exposure of workers routinely applying this product to surfaces should be avoided. During application, care should be taken to minimize exposure by working under well ventilated conditions and by employing respiratory protection as needed. It would be prudent to avoid exposure to children or those with pre-existing respiratory disease.
Potentiation of nerve growth factor-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells by ifenprodil: the role of sigma-1 and IP3 receptors.	In addition to both the 1 adrenergic receptor and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, ifenprodil binds to the sigma receptor subtypes 1 and 2. In this study, we examined the effects of ifenprodil on nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells. Ifenprodil significantly potentiated NGF-induced neurite outgrowth, in a concentration-dependent manner. In contrast, the 1 adrenergic receptor antagonist, prazosin and the NMDA receptor NR2B antagonist, Ro 25-6981 did not alter NGF-induced neurite outgrowth. Potentiation of NGF-induced neurite outgrowth mediated by ifenprodil was significantly antagonized by co-administration of the selective sigma-1 receptor antagonist, NE-100, but not the sigma-2 receptor antagonist, SM-21. Similarly, ifenprodil enhanced NGF-induced neurite outgrowth was again significantly reduced by the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP(3)) receptor antagonists, xestospongin C and 2-aminoethoxydiphenyl borate (2-APB) treatment. Furthermore, BAPTA-AM, a chelator of intracellular Ca(2+), blocked the effects of ifenprodil on NGF-induced neurite outgrowth, indicating the role of intracellular Ca(2+) in the neurite outgrowth. These findings suggest that activation at sigma-1 receptors and subsequent interaction with IP(3) receptors may mediate the pharmacological effects of ifenprodil on neurite outgrowth.
MicroRNA 143-145 deficiency impairs vascular function.	MicroRNAs are required for vascular smooth muscle growth, differentiation and function. MiR143-145 modulates cytoskeletal dynamics and acquisition of the contractile phenotype by smooth muscle cells. Lack of this miRNA cluster results in decreased blood pressure and reduced vasocontraction. As all these observations point to a key role for miR143-145 in the vasculature, we investigated whether miR143-145 deficiency is associated with impaired vascular tone. Vasocontraction was assessed in isolated aortic rings from miR143-145 KO and wild type animals incubated with increasing concentrations of phenylephrine (10(-9)M to 10(-5)M) or KCl 0.3M. In both cases, aortic vessel contraction was dramatically reduced in miR143-145 KO animals compared to controls. Next, aortic rings were pre-contracted with phenylephrine (EC60: 10(-7)M) and concentration responses for acetylcholine were obtained. A significantly reduced vasodilation was observed in miR143-145 KO animals compared to controls and similar results were obtained when an exogenous donor of nitric oxide (sodium nitroprusside) was used. Endothelial nitric oxide synthase or guanylate cyclase mRNA expression were not different between the animal groups thus suggesting to investigate the effect of other vasodilators. Isoprenaline mediated vasodilation was significantly reduced in miR143-145 KO animals compared to controls in the absence or in the presence of the guanylate cyclase inhibitor ODQ (10(-4)M), suggesting that also beta adrenergic vasodilation is impaired following miR143-145 deficiency. Finally, the effect of a stable mimetic prostacyclin, namely iloprost, was investigated and again a reduced vasodilation was observed in miR143-145 KO animals. MiR143-145 deficiency is associated not only with altered vasocontraction but also with impaired vasodilation, which probably reflects the impaired VSMC differentiation phenotype reported in miR143-145 KO animals.
Effect of phenibut and its composition with nicotinic acid on hemostasis in rats with brain ischemia]	It is shown that, in rats with global cerebral ischemia modeled by a complete irreversible occlusion of the common carotid artery and forced hypotension, the hemostasis is characterized by a shift toward hypercoagulation. A single preventive introduction of phenibut and, to a greater degree, a composition of phenibut with nicotinic acid, in rats with acute cerebral ischemia reduced the extent of disturbances in the hemostasis system of experimental animals.
Vascular endothelial dysfunction in -thalassemia occurs despite increased eNOS expression and preserved vascular smooth muscle cell reactivity to NO.	The hereditary -thalassemia major condition requires regular lifelong blood transfusions. Transfusion-related iron overloading has been associated with the onset of cardiovascular complications, including cardiac dysfunction and vascular anomalies. By using an untransfused murine model of -thalassemia major, we tested the hypothesis that vascular endothelial dysfunction, alterations of arterial structure and of its mechanical properties would occur despite the absence of treatments.
Dorzolamide-induced relaxation of intraocular porcine ciliary arteries in vitro depends on nitric oxide and the vascular endothelium.	Carbonic anhydrase inhibitors (CAIs) are used to reduce aqueous production in glaucoma, which includes a direct effect on the ciliary body. However, CAIs also affect ciliary blood flow, but the mechanisms of action of CAIs on the tone of intraocular ciliary arteries supplying the ciliary body have not been studied in detail.
Vascular oxidative stress induced by diesel exhaust microparticles:  synergism with hypertension.	Epidemiological and clinical studies have shown that traffic-related air pollution and, particularly, diesel exhaust particles (DEP) are strongly linked to cardiovascular mortality.
Effects of chronic sildenafil use on pulmonary hemodynamics and clinical outcomes in heart transplantation.	Elevated pulmonary vascular resistance (PVR) in heart transplant (HT) candidates is associated with poor survival after HT. This study assessed the effect of peri-operative sildenafil administration on pulmonary hemodynamics and clinical outcomes in patients with advanced heart failure who were considered high-risk for HT because of elevated PVR and transpulmonary gradient (TPG).
Temporal development of retinal arteriolar endothelial dysfunction in porcine type 1 diabetes.	Although hyperglycemia is implicated in retinal vascular dysfunction associated with the development of diabetic retinopathy, the temporal influence of hyperglycemia on retinal arteriolar reactivity remains unclear. Development of a large animal model of diabetes relevant to the human retina for evaluation of vascular function is also lacking. Herein, we examined nitric oxide (NO)-mediated dilation and endothelin-1 (ET-1)-induced constriction in retinal arterioles at various time periods in a porcine model of type 1 diabetes.
Impact of ACE2 deficiency and oxidative stress on cerebrovascular function with aging.	Angiotensin II produces oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction in cerebral arteries, and angiotensin II type I receptors may play a role in longevity and vascular aging. Angiotensin-converting enzyme type 2 (ACE2) converts angiotensin II to angiotensin (1-7) and thus, may protect against effects of angiotensin II. We hypothesized that ACE2 deficiency increases oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction in cerebral arteries and examined the role of ACE2 in age-related cerebrovascular dysfunction.
Early loss of innervation of cornea epithelium in streptozotocin-induced type 1 diabetic rats: improvement with ilepatril treatment.	Cornea confocal microscopy is emerging as a clinical tool to evaluate the development and progression of diabetic neuropathy. The purpose of these studies was to characterize the early changes in corneal sensitivity and innervation in a rat model of type 1 diabetes in relation to standard peripheral neuropathy endpoints and to assess the effect of Ilepatril, a vasopeptidase inhibitor which blocks angiotensin converting enzyme and neutral endopeptidase, on these endpoints.
Aging and estrogen status: a possible endothelium-dependent vascular coupling mechanism in bone remodeling.	Bone loss with aging and menopause may be linked to vascular endothelial dysfunction. The purpose of the study was to determine whether putative modifications in endothelium-dependent vasodilation of the principal nutrient artery (PNA) of the femur are associated with changes in trabecular bone volume (BV/TV) with altered estrogen status in young (6 mon) and old (24 mon) female Fischer-344 rats. Animals were divided into 6 groups: 1) young intact, 2) old intact, 3) young ovariectomized (OVX), 4) old OVX, 5) young OVX plus estrogen replacement (OVX+E2), and 6) old OVX+E2. PNA endothelium-dependent vasodilation was assessed in vitro using acetylcholine. Trabecular bone volume of the distal femoral metaphysis was determined by microCT. In young rats, vasodilation was diminished by OVX and restored with estrogen replacement (intact, 827; OVX, 619; OVX+E2, 904%), which corresponded with similar modifications in BV/TV (intact, 28.71.6; OVX, 16.30.9; OVX+E2, 25.71.4%). In old animals, vasodilation was unaffected by OVX but enhanced with estrogen replacement (intact, 558; OVX, 597; OVX+E2, 924%). Likewise, modifications in BV/TV followed the same pattern (intact, 33.11.6; OVX, 34.43.7; OVX+E2, 42.42.1%). Furthermore, in old animals with low endogenous estrogen (i.e., intact and old OVX), vasodilation was correlated with BV/TV (R(2) = 0.630; P<0.001). These data demonstrate parallel effects of estrogen on vascular endothelial function and BV/TV, and provide for a possible coupling mechanism linking endothelium-dependent vasodilation to bone remodeling.
Relaxation response of abdominal aorta to androgens in orchidectomised Sprague-Dawley rats fed a high-salt diet.	Previous studies have demonstrated the acute relaxant effects of androgens on normal arterial beds, but not on any with underlying or induced pathologies. This study investigated whether the status of the gonads affects the direct actions of androgens on isolated abdominal aorta from male Sprague-Dawley rats fed a high-salt diet. A high-salt diet reduced the relaxation response to exogenous testosterone, but not to dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA). Orchidectomy reduced the relaxation response to both testosterone and DHEA, while testosterone replacement restored the acute vasorelaxant effect of testosterone and DHEA in both normal and high-salt diet fed rats. Gonadal status appears to be important in the acute vasorelaxant effect of androgens.
Hypotensive, vasorelaxant and cardiodepressant activities of the ethanol extract of Sideritis raeseri spp. raeseri Boiss & Heldr.	Sideritis raeseri spp. raeseri Boiss & Heldr is a native plant from the Mediterranean region that is used due to its medicinal and culinary properties. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of ethanol extract of S. raeseri on the blood pressure, vascular and cardiac contractions. Arterial blood pressure was registered directly from the carotid artery in the anaesthetized rabbits. Aortic rings and the spontaneously beating atria were mounted in tissue bath. An intravenous injection of extract of S. raeseri (0.025-7.5 mg/kg) caused a dose dependent decrease of the arterial pressure and heart rate, with EC(50) value of 24.313.87 mg/kg and 88.147.51 mg/kg, respectively. In aortic preparations precontracted with KCl (80 mM), the extract of S. raeseri (0.005-1.5 mg/ml) elicited a vasodilatator action (EC(50) 0.110.008 mg/ml). In spontaneously beating rat atria, the extract of S. raeseri (0.005-1.5 mg/ml) produced decrease of chronotropic and inotropic activity (with EC(50) value of 0.630.03 mg/ml and 0.400.08 mg/ml). Administration of verapamil induced inhibition of force and rate of the atrial contraction. These results demonstrate that the ethanol extract of Sideritis raeseri spp. raeseri Boiss & Heldr can produce hypotension, vasodilatation, negative chronotropic and inotropic effects.
Sex differences in the biomechanics and contractility of intramural coronary arteries in angiotensin II-induced hypertension.	It is well known that sex differences occur in both the pathogenesis and therapy of hypertension. A deeper understanding of the underlying processes may be helpful when planning a personalized therapeutic strategy.
Mechanisms that underlie the induction of vasodilation in pulmonary artery by rutin.	Rutin, also known as violaguercitrin, is a bioflavonoid and has a wide range of biological activity. However, the effect of this compound on arteries is not elucidated. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate the mechanism underling the induction of vasodilation in pulmonary artery (PA) by the natural product, rutin.
Andrographolide protects against lipopolysaccharide-induced vascular hyporeactivity by suppressing the expression of inducible nitric oxide in periaortic adipose.	This study investigated the role of perivascular adipose tissue (PVAT) in the beneficial effects of andrographolide on vascular reactivity in endotoxaemic rats. After being challenged by lipopolysaccharide (4 mg/kg intraperitoneally), the rats were treated with andrographolide (1 mg/kg intraperitoneally). The response to phenylephrine of aortic rings with or without PVAT was recorded. Vascular relaxing effect of PVAT was determined by bioassay experiments. Inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) in aortic PVAT was tested by Western blot, immunofluorescence, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Lipopolysaccharide injection lowered the contraction force induced by phenylephrine in aortic rings with or without PVAT and andrographolide treatment reversed these effects. In bioassay experiments, transferring bathing solution incubated with a PVAT+ ring to a PVAT- ring induced relaxation in the recipient. This relaxing effect of PVAT from endotoxaemic rats was more potent than the rats treated with vehicles. Andrographolide treatment decreased the relaxing effect of PVAT in endotoxaemic rats. The levels of iNOS protein and messenger RNA in PVAT were significantly higher in endotoxaemic rats than in the rats treated with vehicles. Andrographolide treatment decreased PVAT iNOS protein and messenger RNA levels in endotoxaemic rats. Our results suggest that andrographolide restores vascular reactivity in endotoxaemic rats by downregulation of iNOS in PVAT.
Crosstalk between the equilibrative nucleoside transporter ENT2 and alveolar Adora2b adenosine receptors dampens acute lung injury.	The signaling molecule adenosine has been implicated in attenuating acute lung injury (ALI). Adenosine signaling is terminated by its uptake through equilibrative nucleoside transporters (ENTs). We hypothesized that ENT-dependent adenosine uptake could be targeted to enhance adenosine-mediated lung protection. To address this hypothesis, we exposed mice to high-pressure mechanical ventilation to induce ALI. Initial studies demonstrated time-dependent repression of ENT1 and ENT2 transcript and protein levels during ALI. To examine the contention that ENT repression represents an endogenous adaptive response, we performed functional studies with the ENT inhibitor dipyridamole. Dipyridamole treatment (1 mg/kg; EC50=10 M) was associated with significant increases in ALI survival time (277 vs. 395 min; P<0.05). Subsequent studies in gene-targeted mice for Ent1 or Ent2 revealed a selective phenotype in Ent2(-/-) mice, including attenuated pulmonary edema and improved gas exchange during ALI in conjunction with elevated adenosine levels in the bronchoalveolar fluid. Furthermore, studies in genetic models for adenosine receptors implicated the A2B adenosine receptor (Adora2b) in mediating ENT-dependent lung protection. Notably, dipyridamole-dependent attenuation of lung inflammation was abolished in mice with alveolar epithelial Adora2b gene deletion. Our newly identified crosstalk pathway between ENT2 and alveolar epithelial Adora2b in lung protection during ALI opens possibilities for combined therapies targeted to this protein set.
Increased constrictor tone induced by ouabain treatment in rats.	Ouabain (Oua)-induced hypertension in rodents provides a model to study cardiovascular changes associated with human hypertension. We examined vascular function in rats after a long-term treatment with Oua. Systolic blood pressure was measured by tail-cuff plethysmography in male Sprague-Dawley rats treated with Oua ( 25 g/d) or placebo for 8 weeks. Blood pressure increased in Oua-treated animals, reaching 30% above baseline systolic blood pressure after 7 weeks. At the end of treatment, vascular responses were studied in mesenteric resistance arteries (MRAs) by wire myography. Contraction to potassium chloride in intact and denuded arteries showed greater sensitivity in Oua-treated animals. Contraction to phenylephrine and relaxation to acetylcholine were similar between groups with a lower response to sodium nitroprusside in Oua-treated arteries. Sensitivity to endothelin-1 was higher in Oua-treated arteries. Na-K ATPase activity was decreased in MRAs from Oua-treated animals, whereas protein expression of the Na-K ATPase  isoform was increased in heart and unchanged in mesenteric artery. Preincubation with indomethacin (10 M) or N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (10 M) abolished the differences in potassium chloride response and Na-K ATPase activity. Changes in MRAs are consistent with enhanced vascular smooth muscle cell reactivity, a contributor to the increased vascular tone observed in this model of hypertension.
Pressure-induced maturation of endothelial cells on newborn mouse carotid arteries.	Experiments investigated maturation of endothelial function in the postnatal period. Carotid arteries isolated from newborn (postnatal day 1, P1) to P21 mice were assessed in myographs at transmural pressure (PTM) of 20 mmHg (P1 blood pressure, BP). Acetylcholine was ineffective in P1 but powerfully dilated P7 arteries, whereas NO-donor DEA-NONOate caused similar dilation at P1 and P7. Dilation to acetylcholine at P7 was abolished by inhibition of NO synthase (NOS) (l-NAME) or of phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) (wortmannin, LY294002). Endothelial NOS (eNOS) expression decreased in P7 compared with P1 arteries, although acetylcholine increased PO4-eNOS-Ser(1177) in P7 but not in P1 arteries. Endothelial maturation may therefore reflect increased signaling through PI3K, Akt, and eNOS. Systemic BP increases dramatically in the early postnatal period. After exposing P1 arteries to transient increased PTM (50 mmHg, 60 min), acetylcholine caused powerful dilation and increased PO4-eNOS-Ser(1177). Pressure-induced rescue of acetylcholine dilation was abolished by PI3K or NOS inhibition. Transient increased PTM did not affect dilation at P7, or dilation to NO-donor in P1 arteries. Width of endothelial adherens junctions (VE-cadherin immunofluorescence) increased significantly from P1 to P7, and in P1 arteries exposed to transient increased PTM. A function-blocking antibody to VE-cadherin reduced the pressure-induced rescue of acetylcholine responses at P1, and the dilation to acetylcholine in P7 arteries. Therefore, maturation of newborn endothelium dilator function may be induced by increasing BP in the postnatal period. Furthermore, this may be mediated by VE-cadherin signaling at adherens junctions. Interruption of this maturation pathway may contribute to developmental and adult vascular diseases. 
Roles for cytosolic NADPH redox in regulating pulmonary artery relaxation by thiol oxidation-elicited subunit dimerization of protein kinase G1.	The activity of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) appears to control a vascular smooth muscle relaxing mechanism regulated through cytosolic NADPH oxidation. Since our recent studies suggest that thiol oxidation-elicited dimerization of the 1 form of protein kinase G (PKG1) contributes to the relaxation of isolated endothelium-removed bovine pulmonary arteries (BPA) to peroxide and responses to hypoxia, we investigated whether cytosolic NADPH oxidation promoted relaxation by PKG1 dimerization. Relaxation of BPA to G6PD inhibitors 6-aminonicotinamide (6-AN) and epiandrosterone (studied under hypoxia to minimize basal levels of NADPH oxidation and PKG1 dimerization) was associated with increased PKG1 dimerization and PKG-mediated vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) phosphorylation. Depletion of PKG1 by small inhibitory RNA (siRNA) inhibited relaxation of BPA to 6-AN and attenuated the increase in VASP phosphorylation. Relaxation to 6-AN did not appear to be altered by depletion of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC). Depletion of G6PD, thioredoxin-1 (Trx-1), and Trx reductase-1 (TrxR-1) in BPA with siRNA increased PKG1 dimerization and VASP phosphorylation and inhibited force generation under aerobic and hypoxic conditions. Depletion of TrxR-1 with siRNA inhibited the effects of 6-AN and enhanced similar responses to peroxide. Peroxiredoxin-1 depletion by siRNA inhibited PKG dimerization to peroxide, but it did not alter PKG dimerization under hypoxia or the stimulation of dimerization by 6-AN. Thus regulation of cytosolic NADPH redox by G6PD appears to control PKG1 dimerization in BPA through its influence on Trx-1 redox regulation by the NADPH dependence of TrxR-1. NADPH regulation of PKG dimerization may contribute to vascular responses to hypoxia that are associated with changes in NADPH redox. 
Suppression of endoplasmic reticulum stress improves endothelium-dependent contractile responses in aorta of the spontaneously hypertensive rat.	A contributing factor to increased peripheral resistance seen during hypertension is an increased production of endothelium-derived contractile factors (EDCFs). The main EDCFs are vasoconstrictor prostanoids, metabolites of arachidonic acid (AA) produced by Ca(2+)-dependent cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) following phosphorylation (at Ser(505)) mediated by extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK1/2) and cyclooxygenase (COX) activations. Although endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress has been shown to contribute to pathophysiological alterations in cardiovascular diseases, the relationship between ER stress and EDCF-mediated responses remains unclear. We tested the hypothesis that ER stress plays a role in EDCF-mediated responses via activation of the cPLA2/COX pathway in the aorta of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR). Male SHR and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) were treated with ER stress inhibitor, tauroursodeoxycholic acid or 4-phenlybutyric acid (TUDCA or PBA, respectively, 100 mgkg(-1)day(-1) ip) or PBS (control, 300 l/day ip) for 1 wk. There was a decrease in systolic blood pressure in SHR treated with TUDCA or PBA compared with control SHR (176  3 or 181  5, respectively vs. 200  2 mmHg). In the SHR, treatment with TUDCA or PBA normalized aortic (vs. control SHR) 1) contractions to acetylcholine (ACh), AA, and tert-butyl hydroperoxide, 2) ACh-stimulated releases of prostanoids (thromboxane A2, PGF2, and prostacyclin), 3) expression of COX-1, 4) phosphorylation of cPLA2 and ERK1/2, and 5) production of H2O2. Our findings demonstrate a novel interplay between ER stress and EDCF-mediated responses in the aorta of the SHR. Moreover, ER stress inhibition normalizes such responses by suppressing the cPLA2/COX pathway. 
Comparing the molecular pharmacology of CGRP and adrenomedullin.	CGRP and adrenomedullin [AM] are peptides that have a number of physiological effects, including vasodilation, through the activation of a shared GPCR, the family B calcitonin receptor-like receptor [CLR]. Specificity to each ligand is conferred through the unusual association of CLR with a single transmembrane accessory protein. For CGRP this is receptor activity-modifying protein 1 [RAMP1] and for AM acting at the AM1 receptor this is RAMP2. Receptor signalling by two specific peptide ligands through a common GPCR provides researchers with vital and unique information into similarities and differences of GPCR activation. Understanding the structure and function of these receptors will also provide a platform for future drug design for a number of cardiovascular and metabolic diseases in which CGRP and AM have been implicated. This review summarises the latest information and data concerning ligand binding, receptor activation and structural studies for both the CGRP and AM receptors. 
Fasudil is a superior vasodilator for the internal thoracic artery in coronary surgery.	The internal thoracic artery (ITA) is a very useful conduit for coronary artery bypass artery (CABG), with excellent long-term patency. With the purpose to dilate the ITA graft and increase graft free flow (GFF) intraoperatively, we evaluated the usefulness of intraluminal injection of fasudil, a Rho-kinase inhibitor, in comparison to the conventional graft dilating agent, papaverine.
Adenosine potentiates the therapeutic effects of neural stem cells expressing cytosine deaminase against metastatic brain tumors.	Tumor-tropic properties of neural stem cells (NSCs) provide a novel approach with which to deliver targeting therapeutic genes to brain tumors. Previously, we developed a therapeutic strategy against metastatic brain tumors using a human NSC line (F3) expressing cytosine deaminase (F3.CD). F3.CD converts systemically administered 5-fluorocytosine (5-FC), a blood-brain barrier permeable nontoxic prodrug, into the anticancer agent 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). In this study, we potentiated a therapeutic strategy of treatment with nucleosides in order to chemically facilitate the endogenous conversion of 5-FU to its toxic metabolite 5-FU ribonucleoside (5-FUR). In vitro, 5-FUR showed superior cytotoxic activity against MDA-MB-435 cancer cells when compared to 5-FU. Although adenosine had little cytotoxic activity, the addition of adenosine significantly potentiated the in vitro cytotoxicity of 5-FU. When MDA-MB435 cells were co-cultured with F3.CD cells, F3.CD cells and 5-FC inhibited the growth of MDA-MB-435 cells more significantly in the presence of adenosine. Facilitated 5-FUR production by F3.CD was confirmed by an HPLC analysis of the conditioned media derived from F3.CD cells treated with 5-FC and adenosine. In vivo systemic adenosine treatment also significantly potentiated the therapeutic effects of F3.CD cells and 5-FC in an MDA-MB-435 metastatic brain tumor model. Simple adenosine addition improved the antitumor activity of the NSCs carrying the therapeutic gene. Our results demonstrated an increased therapeutic potential, and thereby, clinical applicability of NSC-based gene therapy.
Ca2+ release-activated Ca2+ channel blockade as a potential tool in antipancreatitis therapy.	Alcohol-related acute pancreatitis can be mediated by a combination of alcohol and fatty acids (fatty acid ethyl esters) and is initiated by a sustained elevation of the Ca(2+) concentration inside pancreatic acinar cells ([Ca(2+)]i), due to excessive release of Ca(2+) stored inside the cells followed by Ca(2+) entry from the interstitial fluid. The sustained [Ca(2+)]i elevation activates intracellular digestive proenzymes resulting in necrosis and inflammation. We tested the hypothesis that pharmacological blockade of store-operated or Ca(2+) release-activated Ca(2+) channels (CRAC) would prevent sustained elevation of [Ca(2+)]i and therefore protease activation and necrosis. In isolated mouse pancreatic acinar cells, CRAC channels were activated by blocking Ca(2+) ATPase pumps in the endoplasmic reticulum with thapsigargin in the absence of external Ca(2+). Ca(2+) entry then occurred upon admission of Ca(2+) to the extracellular solution. The CRAC channel blocker developed by GlaxoSmithKline, GSK-7975A, inhibited store-operated Ca(2+) entry in a concentration-dependent manner within the range of 1 to 50 M (IC50 = 3.4 M), but had little or no effect on the physiological Ca(2+) spiking evoked by acetylcholine or cholecystokinin. Palmitoleic acid ethyl ester (100 M), an important mediator of alcohol-related pancreatitis, evoked a sustained elevation of [Ca(2+)]i, which was markedly reduced by CRAC blockade. Importantly, the palmitoleic acid ethyl ester-induced trypsin and protease activity as well as necrosis were almost abolished by blocking CRAC channels. There is currently no specific treatment of pancreatitis, but our data show that pharmacological CRAC blockade is highly effective against toxic [Ca(2+)]i elevation, necrosis, and trypsin/protease activity and therefore has potential to effectively treat pancreatitis. 
Characterization of the components of urban particulate matter mediating impairment of nitric oxide-dependent relaxation in intrapulmonary arteries.	We have previously shown that exposure to urban particulate matter (UPM) impairs endothelial nitric oxide (NO) bioactivity in intrapulmonary arteries. As UPM is composed of heterogeneous constituents, the aim of this study was to clarify the class of pollutants responsible for such effect. Extracts (aqueous, acidic or organic) were prepared from SRM1648, an UPM sample collected in St. Louis (MO, USA). The metal composition of extracts as well as endotoxin content was determined. The effects of each extract, metal mixture and endotoxin were evaluated on endothelium-dependent relaxation to acetylcholine (reflecting endothelial NO production) in rat isolated intrapulmonary arteries. Aqueous or organic SRM1648 pretreatment altered acetylcholine-induced relaxation, similar to that induced by native SRM1648. Organic extract induced similar attenuation of acetylcholine relaxation than organic-treated SRM1648, whereas aqueous extract had no effect. Acidic pretreatment, which impoverished metal and endotoxin content of SRM1648, prevented the impairment of acetylcholine-induced relaxation. However, neither the acidic extract enriched in metals, nor a metal mixture representative of SRM1648 content, modified acetylcholine relaxation, while endotoxin impaired it. Polymyxin B, which chelates endotoxin, prevented SRM1648-induced decrease in relaxation to acetylcholine. It is concluded that SRM1648-induced impairment of endothelial NO-dependent relaxation in intrapulmonary arteries unlikely involved a soluble factor released by vascular cells during UPM exposure, but rather an organic extractible and acidic-sensitive constituents of UPM. Endotoxin, but not metals, may be responsible for UPM-induced impairment of endothelial NO-dependent relaxation.
AT1 receptors prevent salt-induced vascular dysfunction in isolated middle cerebral arteries of 2 kidney-1 clip hypertensive rats.	Elevated blood pressure, elevated angiotensin II (ANG II), and ANG II suppression with high salt (HS) diet all contribute to vascular dysfunction. This study investigated the interplay of HS diet and vascular function in a high renin model of hypertension.
Attenuation of alpha-adrenergic-induced vasoconstriction by dietary wild blueberries (Vaccinium angustifolium) is mediated by the NO-cGMP pathway in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs).	The role of wild blueberries (WB) on key signaling steps of nitric oxide (NO) and cyclooxygenase (COX) pathways was examined in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) after eight weeks on a control (C) or an 8% w/w WB diet. Aortic rings from SHRs were stimulated with phenylephrine (Phe) in the absence or presence of inhibitors of: soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC), phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE(5)), prostaglandin I(2) (PGI(2)) synthase and thromboxane A(2) (TXA(2)) synthase. Additionally, enzymatic activities in these pathways were determined by the concentration of NO, cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), PGI(2) and TXA(2). In the WB-fed SHR, attenuation of Phe-induced vasoconstriction was mediated by an increased synthesis or preservation of cGMP. Despite an increased release of PGI(2) in the WB group, neither inhibition of PGI(2) or TXA(2) synthase resulted in a different response to Phe between the control and the WB rings. Hence, in the SHR, WB decrease Phe-mediated vasoconstriction under basal conditions by enhancing NO-cGMP signaling without a significant involvement of the COX pathway.
Temporal characteristics of nitric oxide-, prostaglandin-, and EDHF-mediated components of endothelium-dependent vasodilation in the kidney.	Endothelium-dependent vasodilation is mediated by nitric oxide (NO), prostaglandins (PG), and endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF). We studied the contributions and temporal characteristics of these components in the renal vasodilator responses to acetylcholine (ACh) and bradykinin (BK) and in the buffering of vasoconstrictor responses to norepinephrine (NE) and angiotensin II (ANG II). Renal blood flow (RBF) and vascular conductance (RVC) were studied in anesthetized rats in response to renal arterial bolus injections before and after inhibition of NO-synthase (N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, L-NAME), cyclooxygenase (indomethacin, INDO), or both. ACh increased RVC peaking at maximal time (tmax) = 29 s. L-NAME (n = 8) diminished the integrated response and made it substantially faster (tmax = 18 s). The point-by-point difference caused by L-NAME (= NO component) integrated to 74% of control and was much slower (tmax = 38 s). INDO (n = 9) reduced the response without affecting tmax (36 vs. 30 s). The difference (= PG) reached 21% of the control with tmax = 25 s. L-NAME+INDO (n = 17) reduced the response to 18% and markedly accelerated tmax to 16s (= EDHF). Results were similar for BK with slightly more PG and less NO contribution than for ACh. Constrictor responses to NE and ANG II were augmented and decelerated by L-NAME and L-NAME+INDO. The calculated difference (= buffering by NO or NO+PG) was slower than the constriction. It is concluded that NO, PG, and EDHF contribute >50%, 20-40%, and <20% to the renal vasodilator effect of ACh and BK, respectively. EDHF acts substantially faster and less sustained (tmax = 16 s) than NO and PG (tmax = 30 s). Constrictor buffering by NO and PG is not constant over time, but renders the constriction less sustained.
Imatinib attenuates monocrotaline pulmonary hypertension and has potent vasodilator activity in pulmonary and systemic vascular beds in the rat.	Cardiovascular responses to the tyrosine kinase inhibitor imatinib were investigated in the rat. Intravenous injections of 0.3-30 mg/kg imatinib produced small decreases in pulmonary arterial pressure, larger dose-dependent decreases in systemic arterial pressure, and no change or small increases in cardiac output, suggesting that the systemic vasodilator response is more pronounced under baseline conditions. When pulmonary arterial pressure was increased with U-46619 or N()-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), intravenous injections of imatinib produced larger dose-dependent decreases in pulmonary arterial pressure. Imatinib attenuated the acute hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstrictor response. Vasodilator responses to imatinib were not inhibited by meclofenamate, glybenclamide, or rolipram, suggesting that cyclooxygenase, ATP-sensitive K(+) (KATP) channels, and cAMP were not involved in mediating the response. In a 21-day prevention study, imatinib treatment (50 mg/kg ip) attenuated the increase in pulmonary arterial pressure, right ventricular hypertrophy, and small vessel remodeling induced by monocrotaline. Imatinib reduced PDGF receptor phosphorylation and PDGF-stimulated thymidine incorporation in rat pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells. These data suggest that the beneficial effect of imatinib in pulmonary hypertension may involve inhibition of PDGF tyrosine kinase receptor-mediated effects on smooth muscle cell proliferation and on vasoconstrictor tone. These results indicate that imatinib has nonselective vasodilator activity in the pulmonary and systemic vascular beds similar to the Rho kinase inhibitor fasudil and the calcium entry antagonist isradipine. The present results are consistent with the hypothesis that imatinib may inhibit a constitutively active tyrosine kinase vasoconstrictor pathway in the pulmonary and systemic vascular beds in the rat.
The selective dilatation effects of iptakalim on pulmonary arterioles in hypoxic pulmonary hypertensive rat]	To study the selective dilatation effects of iptakalim (Ipt), a novel ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener, on pulmonary arterioles in hypoxic pulmonary hypertensive rat.
Chemical removal of the endothelium by saponin in the isolated dog femoral artery.	Chemical removal of the endothelium by saponin in the isolated dog femoral artery was investigated by comparing the relaxant responses to endothelium-dependent and -independent vasodilators of saponin-treated rings with the responses of non-treated rings. Saponin treatment was done by incubating rings with Krebs-Henseleit solution containing 0.1, 0.3 or 1 mg/ml of saponin for 45 min at 37 degrees C. In non-treated rings, acetylcholine (10(-8)-3 X 10(-6) M) caused a concentration-dependent relaxation of rings precontracted with prostaglandin F2 alpha (3 X 10(-6) M). The acetylcholine-induced relaxation was reduced in rings pretreated with 0.1 mg/ml of saponin and almost abolished with 0.3 or 1 mg/ml. Prostaglandin F2 alpha-induced contraction was suppressed weakly by treatment with 0.3 mg/ml and markedly with 1 mg/ml saponin. The treatment with 0.3 mg/ml saponin markedly reduced relaxations caused by substance P (10(-9)-3 X 10(-8) M) and by Ca2+-ionophore A23187 (10(-6) M). Relaxant responses of saponin-treated rings to nitroglycerin and to nitroprusside were almost identical with those of non-treated rings. These results showing selective suppression by saponin of the endothelium-dependent relaxation suggest that saponin removes the endothelial cells from the intimal surface of the artery, and this was confirmed by electron microscopy. The endothelium removing method with saponin seems to be useful as a pharmacological tool for vascular investigations.
Sympathetic mechanisms in poststenotic myocardial ischemia.	A coronary stenosis can be compensated by dilation of the poststenotic vascular bed. Activation of cardiac sympathetic nerves can disturb this balance. Experiments in anesthetized, vagotomized dogs revealed that electrical stimulation of cardiac sympathetic nerves as well as reflex sympathetic activation by bilateral carotid occlusion induce vasoconstriction distal to severe coronary stenoses, which were defined by the lack of any postocclusive reactive hyperemia. The poststenotic vasoconstriction is mediated by alpha 2-adrenoceptors and, in concert with the beta-adrenoceptor mediated increase in myocardial oxygen demand, it induces an acute ischemia of the poststenotic myocardium. This ischemia was evidenced by contractile dysfunction, net lactate production, the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation in 10% of dogs, and the development of subendocardial necroses after repetitive sympathetic stimulation. The alpha-antagonist phentolamine, the selective alpha 2-antagonist rauwolscine, and the calcium antagonist nifedipine prevent both poststenotic vasoconstriction and ischemia, whereas the beta-antagonist propranolol enhances even poststenotic vasoconstriction, but still prevents ischemia. Poststenotic ischemia can thus result from sympathetic activation but, in turn, also activates cardiac sympathetic nerves by a spinal reflex. This positive feedback provides a basis for a progressive poststenotic vasoconstriction and aggravation of myocardial ischemia. This vicious cycle can be interrupted by rauwolscine and nifedipine, as well as by segmental epidural anesthesia with procaine at segments C6-T7. The poststenotic ischemia induced by sympathoexcitatory reflexes can also be prevented by blocking the sympathoexcitation at the central nervous level by clonidine. Our studies emphasize the role of cardiac sympathetic nerves and alpha 2-mediated poststenotic vasoconstriction in the genesis and aggravation of poststenotic myocardial ischemia.
Iloprost reduces myocardial edema in a rat model of myocardial ischemia reperfusion.	Myocardial ischemia severely reduces myocyte longevity and function. Extensive interstitial edema and cell damage occur as a result of myocardial reperfusion injury. Current therapies are directed at prevention of ischemia-induced damage to cardiac tissue. Iloprost is a novel pharmaceutical agent for the treatment of ischemia.
The concomitant coronary vasodilator and positive inotropic actions of the nitroxyl donor Angeli's salt in the intact rat heart: contribution of soluble guanylyl cyclase-dependent and -independent mechanisms.	The NO redox sibling nitroxyl (HNO) elicits soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC)-dependent vasodilatation. HNO has high reactivity with thiols, which is attributed with HNO-enhanced left ventricular (LV) function. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the concomitant vasodilatation and inotropic actions induced by a HNO donor, Angeli's salt (sodium trioxodinitrate), were sGC-dependent and sGC-independent respectively.
Inhibitory effects of trifluoperazine and chlorpromazine, calmodulin inhibitor, on autoregulation of renal blood flow.	An intra-arterial infusion of a calmodulin inhibitor trifluoperazine (3 mg/min) or chlorpromazine (5 mg/min) caused obvious inhibition of autoregulation of renal blood flow in dogs. Simultaneous infusion of CaCl2 (30 mg/min) or Ca channel activator BAY K 8644 (5 micrograms/min) with these calmodulin inhibitors reduced renal blood flow, but could not block the inhibitory activity of calmodulin inhibitors on the autoregulation. The present experiment shows the contribution of the Ca-calmodulin system to the mechanism of autoregulation of renal blood flow.
Interaction between leukocytes and erythrocytes in the human retina: effects of pentoxifylline on hyperoxia-induced vasoconstriction during increased neutrophil counts.	Pentoxifylline, a nonselective phosphodiesterase inhibitor, shows vasodilator effects in certain vascular beds and reduces blood viscosity. We have previously shown that under states of vasoconstriction an interaction between circulating erythrocytes and leukocytes may play a role in the control of blood flow. The reason for this observation is not entirely clear but may be related to a mechanical interaction between red and white blood cells. In the present study we hypothesized that pentoxifylline may alter this interaction during oxygen-induced vasoconstriction.
Insulin resistance is associated with lower acetylcholine-induced microvascular reactivity in nondiabetic women.	The association between insulin resistance and microvascular dysfunction is well established in obese individuals with type 2 diabetes. It is unclear whether this relationship is dependent on obesity and body fat in insulin-resistant persons. This study investigated acetylcholine (ACh)-induced microvascular reactivity in apparently healthy women (n=37, 20-45 years), with and without insulin resistance.
Effect of trimetazidine on recurrent angina pectoris and left ventricular structure in elderly multivessel coronary heart disease patients with diabetes mellitus after drug-eluting stent implantation: a single-centre, prospective, randomized, double-blind study at 2-year follow-up.	Trimetazidine has been shown to improve angina pectoris and left ventricular (LV) function in diabetic patients with ischaemic cardiomyopathy. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of trimetazidine on recurrent angina pectoris and LV structure after drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation in elderly multivessel coronary heart disease (CHD) patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) and a left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) of  50 %.
Pyridostigmine prevents peripheral vascular endothelial dysfunction in rats with myocardial infarction.	1. Myocardial infarction (MI) is characterized by the withdrawal of vagal activity and increased sympathetic activity. We have shown previously that pyridostigmine (PYR), an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, was able to improve vagal activity and ameliorate cardiac dysfunction following MI. However, the effect of PYR on endothelial dysfunction in peripheral arteries after MI remains unclear. 2. In the present study, MI was induced by coronary artery ligation in adult Sprague-Dawley rats. Rats were treated intragastrically with saline or PYR (approximately 31 mg/kg per day) for 2 weeks, at which time haemodynamic and parasympathetic parameters and the vascular reactivity of isolated mesenteric arteries were measured and the ultrastructure of the endothelium evaluated. 3. Compared with the MI group, PYR not only improved cardiac function, vagal nerve activity and endothelial impairment, but also reduced intravascular superoxide anion and malondialdehyde. In addition, in the PYR-treated MI group, nitric oxide (NO) bioavailability was increased and attenuated endothelium-dependent relaxations were improved, whereas restored vasodilator responses were inhibited by N(G)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester. 4. Based on our results, PYR is able to attenuate the impairment of peripheral endothelial function and maintain endothelial ultrastructural integrity in MI rats by inhibiting reactive oxygen species production, enhancing NO bioavailability and improving vagal activity.
Metformin protects endothelial function in diet-induced obese mice by inhibition of endoplasmic reticulum stress through 5' adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase-peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  pathway.	5' Adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK) interacts with peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor  (PPAR) to induce gene expression synergistically, whereas the activation of AMPK inhibits endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress. Whether the vascular benefits of antidiabetic drug metformin (AMPK activator) in diabetes mellitus and obesity is mediated by PPAR remains unknown. We aim to investigate whether PPAR is crucial for metformin in ameliorating ER stress and endothelial dysfunction induced by high-fat diet.
Blockade of endothelin ET(A), but not thromboxane, receptors offsets the cyclosporine-evoked hypertension and interrelated baroreflex and vascular dysfunctions.	The impairment of arterial baroreceptor and vasodilator functions are two major contributors to the hypertensive action of cyclosporine (CSA). In this study, in vivo and in vitro pharmacological studies were performed to investigate whether these effects of CSA are differentially modulated by endothelin and thromboxane signaling. The treatment of rats with CSA (25mg/kg/day i.p.) for 7 consecutive days caused significant increases in blood pressure (BP), attenuated reflex heart rate (HR) responses to vasopressor (phenylephrine, PE) and vasodepressor (sodium nitroprusside, SNP) agents, and reduced cumulative vasorelaxant responses elicited by acetylcholine (Ach, 110(-9)-110(-5)M) in PE-precontracted isolated aortas. These effects of CSA were blunted after concurrent i.p. administration of atrasentan (selective ETA blocker, 10mg/kg/day), but not terutroban (thromboxane receptor blocker, 10mg/kg/day). Moreover, atrasentan reversed the reductions in aortic protein expression of eNOS caused by CSA whereas terutroban was without effect. We also report that the favorable effect of atrasentan on CSA-evoked impairment in aortic Ach responsiveness disappeared in rats treated simultaneously with L-NAME (NOS inhibitor, 10mg/kg/day) but not BQ 788 (ETB receptor blocker, 0.1mg/kg/day) or indomethacin (cycloxygenase inhibitor, 5mg/kg/day). Together, the data implicate endothelin ETA receptors in baroreflex and vascular derangements which predispose to the hypertensive effect of CSA. Moreover, the facilitation of NOS, but not ETB receptors or cycloxygenase-derived prostanoids, signaling is pivotal for advantageous effect of atrasentan on the aortic CSA-Ach interaction. 
Hydrogen sulphide and tempol treatments improve the blood pressure and renal excretory responses in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Oxidative stress and suppressed H2S production lead to increased renal vascular resistance, disturbed glomerular hemodynamics, and abnormal renal sodium and water handling, contribute to the pathogenesis and maintenance of essential hypertension in man and the spontaneously hypertensive rat. This study investigated the impact of H2S and tempol alone and in combination on blood pressure and renal hemodynamics and excretory functions in the SHR. Groups of WKY rats or SHR (n=6) were treated for 4 weeks either as controls or received NaHS (SHR+NaHS), tempol (SHR+Tempol), or NaHS plus tempol (SHR+NaHS+Tempol). Metabolic studies were performed on days 0, 14, and 28, thereafter animals were anaesthetized to measure renal hemodynamics and plasma oxidative and antioxidant markers. SHR control rats had higher mean arterial blood pressure (140.0  2 vs. 100.0  3 mmHg), lower plasma and urinary H2S, creatinine clearance, urine flow rate and urinary sodium excretion, and oxidative stress compared to WKY (all p<0.05). Treatment either with NaHS or with tempol alone decreased blood pressure and oxidative stress and improved renal hemodynamic and excretory function compared to untreated SHR. Combined NaHS and tempol therapy in SHRs caused larger decreases in blood pressure (20-22% vs. 11-15% and 10-14%), increases in creatinine clearance, urinary sodium excretion and fractional sodium excretion and up-regulated the antioxidant status compared to each agent alone (all p<0.05). These findings demonstrated that H2S and tempol together resulted in greater reductions in blood pressure and normalization of kidney function compared with either compound alone.
Involvement of cyclic-AMP in the hypotensive response to fenoldopam but not to quinpirole in the anaesthetized rat.	1. The objective of the present investigation was to ascertain whether cyclic-AMP acts as a mediator in the hypotensive responses to fenoldopam, a selective dopamine DA-1 receptor agonist and quinpirole, a selective DA-2 receptor agonist, in the anaesthetized rat. 2. The hypotensive response to two doses of fenoldopam (10 and 40 micrograms kg-1, i.v.), when administered in separate groups of animals was reproducible following the administration of saline. 3. Following the i.v. bolus administration of theophylline, IBMX or forskolin, the hypotensive response to fenoldopam (10 micrograms kg-1, i.v.) was significantly potentiated. In addition, the hypotensive response to the higher dose (40 micrograms kg-1, i.v.) was augmented by IBMX. 4. Neither theophylline nor forskolin influenced the hypotensive response to quinpirole. 5. Prior administration of theophylline or forskolin did not alter the hypotensive response to acetylcholine. On the other hand, the hypotensive response to histamine which is reportedly mediated through cyclic-AMP accumulation was significantly potentiated after theophylline administration. 6. These results suggest that cyclic-AMP may be acting as a mediator in the vasodilation and the resultant hypotension following DA-1 receptor activation by fenoldopam. However, the hypotensive response seen with DA-2 receptor activation does not appear to involve cyclic-AMP.
Dual effects of adenosine on the tone of porcine retinal arterioles in vitro.	Previous studies have shown that adenosine induces relaxation of isolated retinal arterioles mediated by the A2A receptor, but the contributions to tone regulation of adenosine receptors located both in and around the vascular wall have not been studied in detail.
Contribution of kv7.4/kv7.5 heteromers to intrinsic and calcitonin gene-related peptide-induced cerebral reactivity.	Middle cerebral artery (MCA) diameter is regulated by inherent myogenic activity and the effect of potent vasodilators such as calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Previous studies showed that MCAs express KCNQ1, 4, and 5 potassium channel genes, and the expression products (Kv7 channels) participate in the myogenic control of MCA diameter. The present study investigated the contribution of Kv7.4 and Kv7.5 isoforms to myogenic and CGRP regulation of MCA diameter and determined whether they were affected in hypertensive animals.
The effects of iloprost on colonic anastomotic healing in rats under obstructive ileus conditions.	The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of iloprost, on colonic anastomotic healing in rats, under obstructive ileus conditions.
Role of vasodilation during normothermic machine perfusion of DCD porcine livers.	Normothermic machine perfusion (NMP) of the liver is a promising preservation modality that holds the potential to better preserve and even repair marginal grafts. In spite of several literature studies showing the benefits of NMP over cold storage, there is paucity of data regarding the mechanisms involved in the optimization of the microcirculation during preservation of these organs. We present our data on the impact of different vasodilators on DCD porcine livers preserved with NMP.
The effects of carvedilol on ischemia-reperfusion injury in the rat testis.	To analyze the oxidative damage and histopathological alterations caused by ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury and ameliorative effects of carvedilol (CVD) in the rat testis.
Enhancement of voltage-gated K+ channels and depression of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels are involved in quercetin-induced vasorelaxation in rat coronary artery.	Quercetin is one of the most common flavonoids in the human daily diet. Its affects the coronary artery, especially L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and voltage-gated K+ channels in the arterial smooth muscle cells, which are poorly understood. The present experiments were designed to study the myogenic effect of quercetin and its possible underlying mechanisms in the rat coronary artery. A wire myograph was used to observe the myogenic effects. Arterial smooth muscle cells were freshly isolated from the rat coronary artery and the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration was measured with molecular probe fluo-4-AM. The effects of quercetin on L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and voltage-gated K+ channels were studied using a whole-cell patch clamp. Quercetin (3-30M) produced a depression and relaxation on the contraction induced by KCl or the thromboxane A2 analog 9,11-Dideoxy-9,11-methanoepoxy prostaglandin F 2 . The vasorelaxation was attenuated by 4-aminopyridine, a specific voltage-gated K+ channel inhibitor, but was not affected by the NG-nitro-L-arginine methylester ester (a nitric oxide synthesis inhibitor), glibenclamide (a ATP-activated K+ channel inhibitor), iberiotoxin (a Ca2+-activated K+ channel inhibitor), BaCl2 (an inward rectifier K+ channel inhibitor), or by endothelium denudation. At the same concentrations, quercetin reduced the KCl-induced elevation of the intracellular free Ca2+ concentration, inhibited the inward Ca2+ currents through L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, and increased the outward K+ currents through voltage-gated K+ channels in the rat coronary artery smooth muscle cells. Collectively, our results demonstrate that quercetin possesses vasospasmolytic effects in RCA and suggest that depression of the Ca2+ influx through L-type voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and augmentation of voltage-gated K+ channel activity in the myocytes may underlie coronary relaxation. 
Tidal stretches differently regulate the contractile and cytoskeletal elements in intact airways.	Recent reports suggest that tidal stretches do not cause significant and sustainable dilation of constricted intact airways ex vivo. To better understand the underlying mechanisms, we aimed to map the physiological stretch-induced molecular changes related to cytoskeletal (CSK) structure and contractile force generation through integrin receptors. Using ultrasound, we measured airway constriction in isolated intact airways during 90 minutes of static transmural pressure (Ptm) of 7.5 cmH2O or dynamic variations between Ptm of 5 and 10 cmH20 mimicking breathing. Integrin and focal adhesion kinase activity increased during Ptm oscillations which was further amplified during constriction. While Ptm oscillations reduced -actin and F-actin formation implying lower CSK stiffness, it did not affect tubulin. However, constriction was amplified when the microtubule structure was disassembled. Without constriction, -smooth muscle actin (ASMA) level was higher and smooth muscle myosin heavy chain 2 was lower during Ptm oscillations. Alternatively, during constriction, overall molecular motor activity was enhanced by Ptm oscillations, but ASMA level became lower. Thus, ASMA and motor protein levels change in opposite directions due to stretch and contraction maintaining similar airway constriction levels during static and dynamic Ptm. We conclude that physiological Ptm variations affect cellular processes in intact airways with constriction determined by the balance among contractile and CSK molecules and structure. 
The role of calmodulin in rat parotid amylase secretion: effects of calmodulin antagonists on secretion and acinar cell structure.	Using dispersed rat parotid cells, the effects of three calmodulin antagonists, trifluoperazine (TFP), N-(6-aminohexyl)-5-chloro-1-naphthalensulfonamide (W-7), and N-(6-aminohexyl)-1-naphthalenesulfonamide (W-5), on amylase release and acinar cell structure were examined. TFP and W-7 strongly inhibited both isoproterenol (ISO)- and dibutyryl cyclic AMP-stimulated amylase release at a concentration of 50 or 100 microM, while W-5, a weak calmodulin antagonist, had only little effect. Cyclic AMP level was markedly elevated by ISO even in the presence of TFP or W-7. These results indicate that the calmodulin antagonists affect amylase release at steps distal to cyclic AMP metabolism. Electron micrographs demonstrated that treatment of parotid cells with either TFP or W-7 caused a loss of luminal microvilli and surface folds. When cells were stimulated by ISO in the presence of TFP or W-7, the enlarged lumina did not recover to their original size and the discharged secretory material was retained in the lumina. Numerous secretory granules remained in the acinar cytoplasm. W-5 affected the acinar cell structure only a little. These observations lead to the assumption that TFP and W-7 interfered with the normal functions of the cytoskeletal system. It is proposed that calmodulin may be involved in the exocytosis of parotid amylase through the regulation of the cytoskeletal system.
Interaction of selected vasodilating beta-blockers with adrenergic receptors in human cardiovascular tissues.	beta- And alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist properties of bufuralol, carvedilol, celiprolol, dilevalol, labetalol, and pindolol were investigated in human myocardium and mammary artery using binding techniques and functional studies. In myocardial membranes, beta-adrenoceptor antagonists showed monophasic competition isotherms for [125I]pindolol binding with high affinity (Ki from 1-100 nM), except for celiprolol which displayed a biphasic competition isotherm (pKi = 6.4 +/- 0.06 for beta 1- and 4.8 +/- 0.07 for beta 2-adrenoceptors). Drug interactions with alpha 1-adrenoceptors were evaluated in human mammary artery by [3H]prazosin binding and by measuring contractile responses to norepinephrine (NE). Labetalol and carvedilol showed a moderate affinity for alpha 1-adrenoceptors (pKi = 6.2 +/- 0.01 and 6.1 +/- 0.06, respectively), and inhibited NE-induced contractions (pA2 = 6.93 +/- 0.23 and 8.64 +/- 0.24, respectively). Dilevalol, bufuralol, and pindolol displayed weak effect both in binding (Ki in micromolar range) and functional experiments (pA2 = 5.98, 5.54, and 6.23, respectively). Celiprolol did not show antagonist properties up to 100 microM in functional studies, but displayed a slight affinity for alpha 1-adrenoceptors in binding studies. The data indicate that the vasodilating activity of these beta-adrenoceptor antagonists is caused in some instances by an alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonism (labetalol, carvedilol), whereas for the others alternative mechanisms should be considered.
Positive inotropic and hemodynamic properties of flosequinan, a new vasodilator, and a sulfone metabolite.	Flosequinan, a new orally active vasodilator, and its sulfone metabolite were evaluated for inotropic activity in isolated ferret papillary muscles and pentobarbital anesthetized open-chest dogs. In vitro, flosequinan and its sulfone derivative increased tension development in a concentration-dependent manner (1-50 microM) in electrically stimulated papillary muscles pretreated with the beta-adrenergic blocking agent atenolol (2 microM). Peak increases in tension of 75 +/- 17%, and 111 +/- 46% with potencies (EC50) of 15 and 10 microM were observed for flosequinan and its metabolite, respectively. In vivo, flosequinan increased left ventricular dP/dtmax (74 +/- 12%) and right ventricular contractile force (CF) (104 +/- 10%) after administration of 1.875 mg/kg, i.v. Inotropic activity was dose-dependent and remained elevated for at least 60 min postinfusion. Flosequinan also increased heart rate (HR) (14 +/- 2%) and reduced mean arterial pressure (-9 +/- 3%). The i.v. potency of flosequinan (ED50 = 0.45 mg/kg) and its metabolite (ED50 = 0.38 mg/kg) were similar to that of the inotropic vasodilator amrinone (ED50 = 0.38 mg/kg). Inotropic activity was not significantly altered by pretreatment with propranolol (0.5 mg/kg) and atropine (1.0 mg/kg), further supporting the in vitro data indicating that flosequinan can directly stimulate myocardial contractility independent of beta-adrenergic receptor activation. Additional hemodynamic studies were conducted in an acute heart failure model produced by an overdose of propranolol. Flosequinan (2 mg/kg, i.v.) increased cardiac output (CO) (50 +/- 9%) and stroke volume (SV) (29 +/- 8%) while reducing total peripheral vascular resistance (TPR) (-36 +/- 4%), right atrial pressure (-62 +/- 5%), and left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) (-41 +/- 2%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In vitro inhibition of human polymorphonuclear cell function by cloricromene.	Cloricromene, a coumarin derivative with antiaggregating and vasodilating properties, was tested in vitro on polymorphonuclear cell (PMN) adhesion to the endothelium, superoxide anion generation and chemotaxis. PMN adhesion was measured using cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (EC) either untreated or previously activated with interleukin-1 (IL-1). Cloricromene (5-50 microM) induced dose-related inhibition of PMN adhesion to untreated and IL-1 treated EC. Cloricromene also inhibited PMN superoxide generation induced by the tumor promoter 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) or by N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine (FMLP). PMN and monocyte chemotaxis was evaluated by a modification of the Boyden chamber technique. Cloricromene inhibited both types of cell motility induced by FMLP in a concentration-dependent fashion. The major cloricromene metabolite (cloricromene acid) had no effect on any of the biological parameters studied up to a concentration of 500 microM. HPLC measurement showed that cloricromene accumulated in PMN within a few minutes and levels of the drug were still high after 60 min. In contrast its acid metabolite was not taken up in a significant amount during incubation periods up to 60 min. We conclude that cloricromene inhibits a series of PMN activities in vitro. This effect might be of pharmacological interest in view of the role of PMN activation in different pathophysiological conditions.
Relaxant effects of the selective phosphodiesterase inhibitors milrinone and OPC 3911 on isolated human mesenteric vessels.	Several new positive inotropic drugs with vasodilating properties for which a major mechanism of action is believed to be inhibition of phosphodiesterase (PDE) have been introduced in the treatment of congestive heart failure. Hydrolysis of cyclic nucleotides is catalyzed by multiple forms of PDE, which may vary between organs and cell-types. These enzymes can be selectively inhibited by various agents, theoretically making it possible to produce tissue-selective responses. An enzyme, which belongs to a subclass of cGMP inhibited low Km cAMP PDE, was recently purified from rat adipose tissue. The enzyme was specifically and potently inhibited by the cilostamide derivative OPC 3911 (OPC) and milrinone (mil). We studied the relaxant effects of OPC and mil on isolated human mesenteric arteries and veins in vitro. In preparations contracted by noradrenaline (NA), both agents produced about 60% maximum relaxation; OPC was 3-4 times more potent than mil. Both OPC and mil caused rightward displacement of the NA concentration-response curve and depressed the maximum responses. Arteries, as compared to veins, were more sensitive to this inhibition of NA contraction. Both drugs relaxed arteries contracted by 30 mM K+, but not 127 mM K+; maximum relaxation was between 60 and 70%. OPC was 10 times more potent than mil. The interactions between mil/OPC and isoprenaline, forskolin and ouabain were also studied. In preparations pretreated with isoprenaline or forskolin, the relaxant effects of mil and OPC were additive to those of isoprenaline and forskolin. Ouabain pretreatment did not affect the actions of the phosphodiesterase inhibitors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Pharmacologic management of myocardial ischemia.	Pharmacologic intervention is critical to the management of myocardial ischemia. Four classes of drugs are now used in therapeutic regimens for ischemia. beta-Adrenergic blockers decrease ischemia by blocking beta 1-mediated inotropic and chronotropic effects, thereby decreasing myocardial oxygen consumption. Calcium channel blockers alter fast- and slow-response action potentials by decreasing transmembrane calcium flux, resulting in decreased conduction velocity and heart rate and prolonged effective refractory period. These effects positively influence ischemia and atrial dysrhythmias. Additionally, these agents decrease excitation-contraction coupling in vascular smooth muscle, resulting in coronary and peripheral vasodilation. Organic nitrates and nitrites decrease vascular smooth muscle contraction and preload, and afterload, precipitating a decrease in myocardial oxygen consumption and ischemia. They also improve blood flow to areas of compromised flow. Thrombolytic agents are administered in acute situations to dissolve the occluding thrombus, but they must be used within a few hours of the injury. These drugs activate the conversion of plasminogen to plasmin, which breaks down the clot into fibrin degradation products. The choice of agents is determined by the etiology of the patient's ischemia, his or her response to the drug, and the presence of concomitant disease processes.
Reactivity of human isolated internal mammary artery to constrictor and dilator agents. Implications for treatment of internal mammary artery spasm.	Perioperative spasm of the internal mammary artery (IMA) may occur after coronary artery bypass surgery. To establish the most appropriate dilator agent, we tested the reactivity of ring segments of human IMA in organ baths to various constrictor and dilator agents. We found that the thromboxane mimetic U46619 was the most potent IMA constrictor agent, followed by norepinephrine, serotonin, phenylephrine, and potassium chloride (K+). In K+- or U46619-precontracted IMA, glyceryl trinitrate and papaverine caused full relaxation. In K+-precontracted arteries, nifedipine, verapamil, and diltiazem caused full relaxation, but nifedipine was 15-fold more potent than the other calcium antagonists. In contrast, pretreatment of vessels with glyceryl trinitrate failed to alter subsequent contraction to U46619 or K+ while nifedipine pretreatment abolished subsequent contraction to K+ and reduced sensitivity of the IMA to U46619. We conclude that perioperative IMA spasm could be treated with the rapid-onset, nonspecific, vasodilator glyceryl trinitrate, but for prophylaxis of IMA spasm, calcium antagonists or specific receptor antagonists should be tested in the clinical setting.
Acute haemodynamic effects of ibopamine and dopamine on isovolumic relaxation.	The effects of intraduodenal ibopamine (a new orally active inotropic agent claimed to have haemodynamic effects similar to dopamine) on isovolumic relaxation were monitored for 90 min in eight closed-chest anaesthetized dogs. Dopamine and epinine (ibopamine active metabolite) were also infused at graded doses. After 15 min, ibopamine (12 mg/kg) shortened the time constant of isovolumic relaxation, and increased stroke volume and mean aortic pressure. Peak positive dP/dt increased significantly only 10 min later. Heart rate did not change. Dopamine (10 micrograms/kg per min) similarly reduced the time constant, and increased stroke volume, mean aortic pressure, peak positive dP/dt and heart rate. Epinine (10 micrograms/kg per min) caused similar changes in peak positive dP/dt, stroke volume, mean aortic pressure, and accelerated time constant without raising the heart rate. Ibopamine and epinine therefore significantly improved the isovolumic relaxation phase, like dopamine, without however affecting the heart rate.
Effect of NC-1100 [1-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-diphenylmethylpiperazinyl) ethanol dihydrochloride] on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) metabolism in rat brain: analysis using stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rat.	Effects of oral administration of NC-1100 on the metabolism of neuroactive amino acids in rat brain were studied using stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive (SHR-SP) and Wistar Kyoto rats. The repeated administration of NC-1100 induced a significant increase of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) content in the cerebellum and medulla oblongata of SHR-SP. The decrease of aspartic acid contents in the cerebellum and medulla oblongata of SHR-SP was also noted following NC-1100 administration. Although the activity of L-glutamic acid decarboxylase did not change in these cerebral areas, the activity of GABA-transaminase:succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase was found to be significantly reduced in the cerebellum of SHR-SP following the repeated administration of NC-1100. The turnover rate of GABA was also significantly reduced in the cerebellum and medulla oblongata of SHR-SP. It was also found that the spontaneous release of preloaded [3H]GABA from cerebral cortical slices was significantly retarded by the continuous oral administration of NC-1100. These results suggest that NC-1100 may be a drug inducing the increase of GABA in the cerebellum and medulla oblongata following continuous administration, especially in animals having hypertension associated cerebrovascular disorders such as SHR-SP.
The characteristics of the peripheral-limb-circulation in congestive heart failure.	The regulation of the peripheral-limb circulation was investigated in 21 patients suffering from chronic cardiac failure (NYHA stage II and III). In 11 patients the extremital circulation was intact, while 10 patients suffered from peripheral obliterative arterial disease, too (intermittent claudication or rest pain). The control group consisted of 75 subjects with normal cardiac condition. In 35 of the control subjects the peripheral circulation was intact, the remaining 40 suffered from extremital venous isotope dilution technique. In congestive heart failure the limb blood flow and the limb oxygen consumption slightly diminished, but remained in the normal range. The limb vascular resistance significantly increased. In patients suffering from intermittent claudication or rest pain, the marked diminution of the limb blood flow and elevation of the vascular resistance was more pronounced in congestive heart failure than in healthy subjects. The pathologically elevated limb vascular resistance decreased and the limb blood flow significantly increased in congestive heart failure on administration of vasodilator drugs. A pathological and mostly reversible increase in extremital vascular resistance is the most characteristic sign of the peripheral circulation in congestive heart failure.
Reactivity of equine palmar digital arteries and veins to vasodilating agents.	Palmar digital arteries and veins removed surgically from healthy horses under general anesthesia were cut into 4 mm vascular rings, suspended in tissue baths, and attached to force displacement transducers for continuous measurement of vascular tension. In vitro vascular responses were determined for acetylcholine, acepromazine, isoxsuprine hydrochloride (isoxsuprine), prostaglandin E2 (PGE2), and prostaglandin I2 (prostacyclin). After preconstriction with norepinephrine hydrochloride (norepinephrine), or prostaglandin F2 alpha (PGF2 alpha), the concentrations needed to produce 50% maximum relaxation (EC50) and the maximum percentage of relaxation were determined for each drug. Acetylcholine was the most potent arterial vasodilator (smallest EC50 value) and PGE2 was the least potent. Prostacyclin was the least potent venodilator (highest EC50 value); there were no differences between acetylcholine, acepromazine, isoxsuprine, and PGE2. Isoxsuprine produced greater arterial relaxation than all other agents. Isoxsuprine and acepromazine produced significantly greater venous relaxation than did acetylcholine and PGE2. Prostacyclin produced minimal vasodilation of arteries or veins. Acepromazine and isoxsuprine relaxed the veins significantly more than the arteries. When PGF2 alpha was used instead of norepinephrine to preconstrict the arteries and veins, the potency and effectiveness of acepromazine and isoxsuprine to produce vasodilation were significantly decreased. Results indicate that acepromazine and isoxsuprine can relax the equine digital vasculature but their effectiveness varies depending on the origin of the constriction.
Cardiovascular actions of buflomedil and possible mechanisms involved.	Cardiovascular effects of buflomedil (Bufedil) were studied in dogs, rabbits and guinea pigs. 1. In pentobarbital-anesthetized dogs, buflomedil (0.32-5.12 mg/kg i.v.) induced a dose-dependent fall of blood pressure and a slight increase of heart rate at 0.32-1.28 mg/kg but a heart rate decrease at 2.56 and 5.12 mg/kg. 2. Buflomedil administered into the maxillary (10-320 micrograms/kg), internal carotid (40-320 micrograms/kg) and vertebral artery (20-640 micrograms/kg) increased respective blood flows dose-dependently. 3. Buflomedil (i.v.) also produced dose-dependent increases of the maxillary blood flow at 0.08-0.64 mg/kg, internal carotid flow at 1.28-5.12 mg/kg and vertebral flow at 0.32-5.12 mg/kg, respectively. These increasing effects were attenuated at larger doses because of marked hypotension. 4. Buflomedil (10 mg/kg i.v.) reduced pressor responses to norepinephrine (noradrenaline) and enhanced depressor responses to isoprenaline (isoproterenol), without affecting depressor responses to acetylcholine and positive chronotropic responses to norepinephrine and isoprenaline. 5. After buflomedil (i.v.), the femoral and coronary blood flow increased dose-dependently while renal blood flow decreased. These increasing effects were also reduced at larger doses because of hypotension. 6. Buflomedil (i.v.) induced a dose-dependent increase of cardiac output at 0.16-0.64 mg/kg, biphasic changes at 1.28 and 2.56 mg/kg and a marked decrease and subsequent slight increase at a large dose of 5.12 mg/kg. 7. 4-Desmethylbuflomedil (i.v.); elicited dose-dependent biphasic changes of blood pressure at 0.64-5.12 mg/kg, and a slight increase of heart rate at 0.32-2.56 mg/kg but decreases at 5.12 mg/kg. It also elevated, dose-dependently, the maxillary blood flow at 0.16-5.12 mg/kg and vertebral flow at 1.28-5.12 mg/kg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The reaction of cerebral arteries to non-ionic contrast media during cerebral angiography.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate possible vasoconstrictive or vasodilatator effects of the low osmolar non-ionic contrast medium iohexol (Omnipaque) on the calibre of cerebral arteries. The diameters of respectively 5 and 6 different locations of the vertebral and carotid arteries were recorded from angiograms of 3 successive injections. The material consisted of 18 patients. It could not be shown that Omnipaque induced vasoconstriction or vasodilatation when normal doses and adequate technique was applied. The difference in diameters found were not statistically significant and are probably due to natural pulsations and to the difficulties in performing exact measurements.
Pulmonary vascular and renal effects of cromakalim in anaesthetized dogs.	1) CROM reduced hypoxia-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction and maintained PaO2 with an increase in cardiac output. 2) Low doses of CROM infused into the kidney caused pronounced renal vasodilation, marked natriuresis and a significant increase in cardiac output with minor changes in blood pressure. In addition to its previously described systemic antihypertensive effects, CROM also reduces hypoxia-induced pulmonary hypertension and shows marked renal vasodilation with natriuresis in anaesthetized dogs.
The first demonstration of CGRP-immunoreactive fibers in canine hearts: coronary vasodilator, inotropic and chronotropic effects of CGRP in canine isolated, blood-perfused heart preparations.	CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibers were histologically stained in the endocardium and perivascular layer of coronary vessels of canine hearts. To examine the physiological role of the CGRP in the heart function, effects of exogeneous CGRP on the hearts were studied using canine isolated, blood-perfused heart preparations. CGRP exerted dose-related potent vasodilator effects with a minimal increase in the developed tension of the papillary muscle, but slightly decreased the sinoatrial rate. The vasodilator effects were unaffected by the pretreatment of either atropine or propranolol. These specific functional effects on the coronary artery are well in accordance with the anatomical localization of CGRP. Taken together, CGRP seems to play an important role in the regulation of coronary vascular tone, while it has only a small functional role in inotropism and chronotropism in canine hearts.
Endothelium and the vasodilator action of rat calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP).	1 Acetylcholine and rat calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) produced a relaxation in rat isolated aortic rings which was entirely dependent on the presence of the endothelium. 2 In the absence of any exogenous vasodilator agent, the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cyclic GMP) content was higher in rings with endothelium than in those without. 3 The vasorelaxation produced by acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside was accompanied by increases in cyclic GMP in the smooth muscle, whereas that produced by CGRP was not accompanied by cyclic GMP accumulation. 4 Therefore, it appears unlikely that CGRP releases an endothelium-derived relaxing factor similar to that released by acetylcholine.
Stimulation and homologous desensitization of calcitonin gene-related peptide receptors in cultured beating rat heart cells.	Addition of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), 1 X 10(-7) M, to cultured neonatal rat heart cells resulted in rapid increases in beating rate and cellular concentrations of cAMP. Calcitonin (1 X 10(-7) M), in contrast, had no significant effect on heart cell beating rate or cAMP content. CGRP-stimulated increases in heart cell cAMP content were rapid, transient, dose dependent, and potentiated by isobutyl-methylxanthine (1 X 10(-4) M). Half-maximal increases in heart cell cAMP content occurred at 1 X 10(-8) M CGRP. Heart cell adenylate cyclase responses to CGRP were desensitized in a rapid (i.e. within 5 min) and dose-dependent manner by prior exposure to CGRP. Complete and half-maximal desensitization of heart cells to CGRP occurred at 1 X 10(-8) and 3 X 10(-10) M CGRP, respectively. Desensitization of heart cells to CGRP did not modify the cAMP response of heart cells to beta-adrenergic agonist stimulation, and beta-adrenergic agonist desensitization of heart cells did not modify responses to CGRP. Heart cell cAMP responses to CGRP were additive to those of the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol and occurred in the presence of beta-adrenergic blockade. These observations demonstrate that CGRP exerts specific and potent agonist actions in cardiac myocytes and that regulation of myocardial responses to CGRP may occur by mechanisms involving increases in cAMP and receptor desensitization.
Comparison of the effects of fenoldopam, SK & F R-87516 and dopamine on renal arterioles in vitro.	The ability of the selective DA1 agonists fenoldopam and SK & F R-87516 to relax norepinephrine-contracted afferent and efferent arterioles isolated from rabbit kidney was compared. In both arterioles, fenoldopam and SK & F R-87516 produced a concentration-dependent relaxation with a potency similar to that of dopamine. Fenoldopam also relaxed efferent arterioles contracted with angiotensin II. The selective DA1 receptor antagonist, SK & F R-83566, caused parallel displacements in the concentration-response curves to SK & F 82526, corresponding to dissociation constants of 10.5 and 8.3 nM for afferent and efferent arterioles, respectively. The results provide direct evidence that the dopamine receptor present on renal resistance vessels is of the DA1 subtype.
Cardiovascular profile of pimobendan, a benzimidazole-pyridazinone derivative with vasodilating and inotropic properties.	Intravenous infusions of 0.01-0.1 mg X kg-1 X min-1 of pimobendan, a benzimidazole-pyridazinone derivative in pigs with normal coronary circulation caused dose-dependent changes in heart rate (10-35%), left ventricular systolic pressure (-5 to -45%), left ventricular filling pressure (-20 to -40%) but had only a minor effect on the maximum rate of rise of left ventricular pressure (max LVdP/dt; 10-20%). The decrease in mean arterial blood pressure was primarily due to systemic vasodilation; peripheral resistance and cardiac output decreased by up to 40 and 14%, respectively. Vasodilation occurred in several vascular beds, but was particularly pronounced in the adrenals, stomach, small intestine and myocardium. Although the increase in myocardial blood flow favoured the epicardium, vascular conductance in both the endo- and epicardial layers was significantly increased. Myocardial O2 consumption (MVO2) was not affected despite the increase in heart rate. Bolus injections of 0.1-0.5 mg X kg-1 pimobendan produced similar changes in all haemodynamic variables, except max LVdP/dt which now increased by 30-70%. As in the infusion experiments, cardiac output tended to decrease due to a pronounced reduction in ventricular preload probably as a result of venodilation and the consequent reduction in cardiac filling. However, in animals where max LVdP/dt and cardiac output were reduced and pre- and/or after-load were increased by partial occlusion of the left anterior descending coronary artery, pimobendan clearly increased both max LVdP/dt and cardiac output. Pretreatment with propranolol did not modify any of the cardiovascular responses to pimobendan, thereby excluding the involvement of a beta-adrenoceptor mechanism. Pimobendan is thus a compound with vasodilator and positive inotropic properties that improves cardiac output in animals with severe myocardial ischaemia. The finding that the mild tachycardia caused by pimobendan was not accompanied by an increase in MVO2 warrants investigation to evaluate its usefulness in the treatment of heart failure.
Age-related decrease in endothelium-dependent dilator response to histamine in rat mesenteric artery.	The effect of aging on the vasodilator responses to histamine, 2-pyridylethylamine and 4-methylhistamine of ring segments of rat mesenteric arteries were investigated. The maximal extent of histamine-induced dilatation of the arteries previously contracted with norepinephrine was greatest for arteries from rats aged 2 and 8 weeks. The maximal response decreased progressively with an increase in age to 13 and 56 weeks. Arteries from 99 week old rats scarcely responded to histamine. Under these conditions, the dilatation induced by papaverine showed no change with age. The vasodilatation caused by 2-pyridylethylamine and 4-methylhistamine also decreased age dependently. The dilatation of the arteries induced by these agents was inhibited by the H1-antagonist chlorpheniramine, but not by the H2-antagonist cimetidine. Removal of the endothelium completely abolished the vasodilator effect of histamine, leaving the effect of papaverine unaffected. Hydroquinone and methylene blue reversed the dilatation induced by histamine, without affecting that caused by papaverine. These results suggest that the age-related decrease in dilatation of rat mesenteric artery in response to histamine is mainly due to a decrease in the ability of the endothelium to liberate a mediator(s).
Stimulation of soluble guanylate cyclase by endothelium-derived relaxing factor from cultured endothelial cells.	Bovine endothelial cells, grown on microcarrier beads and superfused with a saline solution, were stimulated with thimerosal or bradykinin to release endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF). EDRF activity in the effluent was assayed in endothelium-denuded rabbit aorta. The stimulation of purified soluble guanylate cyclase in test tubes by the EDRF-containing effluent amounted to 90-fold of basal activity and its time course correlated with that of the dilator response of the aorta. After preincubation of endothelial cells with gossypol the EDRF-induced dilator response as well as the stimulation of guanylate cyclase was suppressed.
The lack of the effect of DA-1 and DA-2 dopamine agonists on the isolated guinea-pig atria.	1 The effects of dopamine and both DA-1 and DA-2 dopamine receptor agonists have been studied on the contractile force of electrically driven guinea-pig left atria and frequency of spontaneously beating right atria. 2 Pretreatment of animals with reserpine caused a parallel rightward shift of the concentration-response curve to dopamine of either preparation. 3 Propranolol, but not domperidone, shifted to the right the dose-response curve for the positive inotropic and chronotropic effects of dopamine. 4 Neither apomorphine, fenoldopam, bromocriptine nor piribedil had effects on the frequency and contractile force of the isolated guinea-pig atria. 5 These results suggest that DA-1 and DA-2 dopamine receptors are neither directly nor indirectly (prejunctional effect) involved in the inotropic and chronotropic effects of dopamine in isolated guinea-pig atria.
Vasomotor effects of neurotransmitters and modulators on isolated human pial veins.	Vasomotor reactivity of human pial veins, obtained in conjunction with neurosurgical operations, was studied in vitro. The effect of transmitters in nerves previously recognized in these vessels, as well as that of neuromodulators, was characterized. A comparison of these effects with their effects in the nearby pial arteries of the same patients was made. It was found that the veins were equipped with more sensitive alpha-adrenergic receptors (lower EC50 values) than the arteries. The reverse was found for 5-hydroxytryptamine. Acetylcholine, which causes an endothelium-dependent dilation of pial arteries, contracted the veins despite an apparently intact endothelium. Considering the lower maximum values in veins, responses to histamine, the neuropeptides calcitonin gene-related peptide, bradykinin, and neuropeptide Y; and prostaglandins (PGE1 and PGF2 alpha) were principally the same in the arteries and veins. The dilatory responses to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and substance P were less pronounced in veins than in arteries. The veins only transiently contracted to a depolarizing potassium solution; calcium influx promotors and inhibitors, as well as calcium-free solution, did not affect the contractile ability of the vein, contrasting to the reactivity of the artery. This clearly indicates that the veins are not substantially dependent upon calcium influx for their acute contractile ability.
Effects of nipradilol, a new beta-adrenoceptor blocking agent with vasodilating properties, on transmural energy metabolism in the underperfused canine heart.	Effects of nipradilol on hemodynamics and transmural energy metabolism of underperfused (ischemic) canine hearts were investigated. The ischemic heart was prepared by constricting a tube connecting the circumflex coronary artery with the carotid artery for 10 min so that the perfusion pressure (CPP) was reduced to 30 mmHg. The reduction in CPP resulted in decreases in coronary blood flow (CBF) by 70%, regional myocardial contractile force (MCF) by 30%, myocardial ATP contents by 32% (inner layer)-22% (outer) and creatine phosphate by 75% (inner)-60% (outer). Increases in the left ventricular end diastolic pressure (LVEDP) by 4.8 mmHg, myocardial inorganic phosphate contents by 1.9 times (inner)-1.3 (outer) and lactate by 4.3 times (inner)-2.4 (outer) were also observed. In dogs with normal hearts, an infusion of nipradilol (10 micrograms/kg/min, i.v., for 15 min) decreased CPP by 25%, CBF by 40%, cardiac effort index by 45% and MCF by 30 to 40%, and it slightly increased LVEDP without affecting myocardial high-energy phosphate and lactate levels. In ischemic hearts, nipradilol infusion starting 5 min before ischemia attenuated the ischemia-induced elevation of LVEDP to 1.8 mmHg, and the ischemia-induced changes in high-energy phosphate contents to 1/2 (inner)-1/3 (outer) and changes in lactate to 1/6 (inner)-1/10 (outer). These results indicate that nipradilol improves the ischemic derangement of both transmural energy metabolism and hemodynamics.
Regulation and role of guanylate cyclase-cyclic GMP in vascular relaxation.	Three classes of vasodilators mediate their effects through the activation of guanylate cyclase and the increased synthesis of cyclic GMP. Nitrovasodilators such as nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, hydroxylamine, azide, etc. result in the generation of the nitric oxide free radical that activates the cytosolic (soluble) isoenzyme form of guanylate cyclase. These agents have been useful in increasing cyclic GMP synthesis in numerous model systems and these effects are independent of extracellular calcium. The increased synthesis of cyclic GMP and the activation of cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase result in the altered phosphorylation of many smooth muscle proteins including the dephosphorylation of myosin light chain, which is associated with vascular and tracheal smooth muscle relaxation. These latter effects may result from cyclic GMP decreasing cytosolic free calcium concentrations and the activity of myosin light chain kinase. Another class of vasodilators, designated endothelium-dependent vasodilators, includes a long list of agents such acetylcholine, histamine, A23187, ATP, thrombin, etc. that relax vessels only when the endothelium is intact. These agents result in the increased endothelial synthesis and/or release of a factor(s) designated endothelial-derived relaxant factor (EDRF), the structure of which is unknown. This labile factor also activates the soluble isoenzyme form of guanylate cyclase in the smooth muscle resulting in cyclic GMP accumulation and the same cascade of events as above. There is evidence that even under basal, non-stimulated conditions there is EDRF release that influences vascular tone due to the increased synthesis of cyclic GMP. A third class of vasodilators, atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) or atriopeptins, includes a family of peptides that are produced in cardiac atria and other tissues and influence cardiovascular volume and dynamics by causing natriuresis, diuresis, vasodilation and decreased renin, aldosterone and vasopressin secretion. These peptide hormones also increase cyclic GMP synthesis in vascular, renal, adrenal and other tissues. These effects are mediated through specific ANF receptors that couple to and activate the membrane (particulate) isoenzyme form of guanylate cyclase and increase cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase activity. There are two ANF receptor subtypes in most cells and tissues that are 130,000 and 66,000 daltons. The ANF receptor of about 130,000 daltons, designated receptor ANF-R1 copurifies with particulate guanylate cyclase through numerous procedures and may be part of the membrane-associated guanylate cyclase complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Different effects of various vasodilators on autoregulation of renal blood flow in anesthetized dogs.	In order to examine whether the autoregulation of renal blood flow is equally influenced by all kinds of vasodilators, kidney perfusion experiments were performed in anesthetized dogs. The perfused kidney usually showed excellent autoregulation of blood flow over the perfusion pressure between 120 and 200 mmHg. Renal blood flow was increased by the renal arterial infusion of diltiazem (100 micrograms/min), papaverine (10 mg/min) or nicorandil (300 micrograms/min) (at the basal perfusion pressure of 100 mmHg) and was maintained at an increased level while the infusion was continued. On the other hand, renal blood flow was increased only transiently by the infusion of nitroglycerin (50 micrograms/min), and the blood flow gradually decreased to the basal level in spite of the continuous infusion. Infusions of diltiazem and papaverine abolished the autoregulation of renal blood flow besides the vasodilator effect, but infusions of nitroglycerin and nicorandil have no effect on the autoregulation. Furthermore, sodium nitroprusside (30 micrograms/min) and sodium nitrite (5 mg/min), which are assumed to produce vasodilation through cyclic GMP, also have no effect on the autoregulation of renal blood flow. In conclusion, all the vasodilators do not influence the renal blood flow autoregulation, and vasodilation caused by cyclic GMP is unconnected with the myogenic mechanism regulating the renal blood flow.
Validation of Doppler-derived pulmonary arterial pressure in patients with ductus arteriosus under different hemodynamic states.	Twenty-nine patients with a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in isolation (n = 17) or in combination with other lesions (n = 12) underwent simultaneous hemodynamic assessment and evaluation of PDA flow velocity by the Doppler method. The accuracy with which Doppler velocity across the PDA predicted pulmonary arterial pressure and the influence of PDA size and shape on the Doppler velocity-pressure relationship were examined. Seventy percent had a cone-shaped PDA (narrowest at the pulmonary artery end), and the remainder were tubular. Narrowest PDA diameter ranged from 1.5 to 9 mm (mean 3.5 mm). Peak systolic and mean pulmonary arterial pressure ranged from 10 to 116 and 8 to 72 mm Hg, respectively. Twenty-one patients (group 1) had left-to-right shunting only. The following variables showed significant correlation in this group: peak instantaneous systolic aortic-to-main pulmonary arterial (MPA) pressure gradient and maximum Doppler velocity across the PDA (slope = 1.03, SEE = 13 mm Hg, r = .94, p less than .001), mean aortic-to-MPA pressure gradient and mean Doppler velocity (slope = 1.06, SEE = 10 mm Hg, r = .95, p less than .001), and end diastolic aortic-to-MPA pressure gradient and minimum Doppler velocity (slope = 1.12, SEE = 8 mm Hg, r = .96, p less than .001). Eight patients (group 2) had bidirectional shunting. In this group peak instantaneous aortic-to-MPA pressure gradient significantly correlated with maximum Doppler velocity measured from the left-to-right shunt (slope = .70, SEE = 2 mm Hg, r = .92, p less than .002) and mean pressure gradient correlated with mean Doppler velocity (slope = .83, SEE = 3 mm Hg, r = .78, p less than .003). Right-to-left Doppler velocities showed no correlation with pressures. In six patients with pulmonary hypertension Doppler velocity changes accurately predicted the effect of pulmonary vasodilation on pulmonary arterial pressure. Doppler velocity of PDA flow reliably predicts pulmonary arterial pressure over a wide range of pressures and PDA shapes and sizes.
Nicorandil-induced changes in the distribution of cardiac output and coronary blood flow in pigs.	The present investigation was conducted to study systemic and regional haemodynamic effects of nicorandil, a potent coronary vasodilator, after intravenous or local intracoronary administration in anaesthetized or conscious pigs. Intravenous infusions of nicorandil for 10 min in both anaesthetized (15, 30, 75 and 150 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) and conscious (20, 40 and 80 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) pigs reduced arterial blood pressure, stroke volume, left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (LVEDP) and systemic vascular resistance, but increased heart rate and maxLVdP/dt. Since nicorandil decreased LVEDP at doses which did not affect arterial blood pressure, the drug may be considered as a more potent venodilator than arterial dilator. Nicorandil increased cardiac output only in conscious animals due to a more marked tachycardia (85% after 80 micrograms.kg-1.min-1) than in anaesthetized animals (30% after 75 micrograms.kg-1.min-1). The nicorandil-induced increase in heart rate and maxLVdP/dt, being substantially attenuated in conscious pigs after treatment with propranolol, can be ascribed to a reflex activation of the sympathetic nervous system following the fall in arterial pressure. Although cardiac output did not change in anaesthetized animals, intravenous infusions of nicorandil did cause a redistribution of blood flow in favour of organs such as the heart, adrenals, spleen, small intestine and brain at the expense of that to the stomach and kidneys; hepatic artery and skeletal muscle blood flow did not change. The increase in myocardial blood flow, primarily to the subepicardial layers, was associated with an enhancement in coronary venous oxygen content and was also notices after intracoronary infusions of nicorandil (0.6, 1.5, 3 and 6 micrograms.kg-1.min-1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Selective enhancement of function of stunned myocardium by increased flow.	Although augmentation of flow does not improve the performance of normal myocardium, the hyperemic response after brief coronary occlusion is associated with transient hyperfunction in the previously ischemic region. In this study we assessed the effect of vasodilator-enhanced coronary blood flow on the systolic function of postischemic stunned myocardium. In 18 open-chest, anesthetized dogs the anterior descending artery was occluded for 5 min, followed by a 10 min period of reflow, repeated 12 times with a final 90 min recovery period. After the recovery period, either 0.06 mg/min dipyridamole (n = 6), 1 mg/min papaverine (n = 6), or 1.5 micrograms/kg/min nitroglycerin (n = 6) was infused intravenously for 15 min. Regional myocardial blood flow, which had returned to normal before administration of vasodilator, was increased 150% above baseline by dipyridamole and 80% by papaverine, but was unchanged by nitroglycerin. Segmental shortening decreased after repeated occlusions: from 17.5% to 0.9% in the group later treated with dipyridamole, from 18.6% to 6.7% in the papaverine group, and from 19.2% to-1.9% in the nitroglycerin group (p less than .005 for all groups). Segmental shortening increased to 8.8% after dipyridamole, 13.6% after papaverine, and 5.1% after nitroglycerin (p less than .05 for all groups), although the load-independent end-systolic pressure-length relationship (ESPLR) showed a significant shift to the left, reflecting enhanced performance, only after dipyridamole and papaverine. For all dogs combined, the percent improvement in ESPLR was correlated with the percent increase in flow (R = -.73, p less than .001). Performance was unchanged in the control region despite similar augmentation of flow.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anti-thrombotic effect of KC-404, a novel cerebral vasodilator.	KC-404 prevented mice from death and rats from A-V block, both induced by rapid i.v. injection of adenosine diphosphate (ADP), at high doses (5-100 mg/kg, i.v.). KC-404, at relatively lower doses (0.5-2 mg/kg, i.v.), inhibited the electroencephalographic (EEG) change in rat rapidly administered with arachidonic acid (AA) into the internal carotid artery. KC-404 (0.3-3 mg/kg, p.o.) inhibited the necrotic change of lower leg, paw or finger of rat when injected with sodium laurate into the femoral artery. KC-404 at doses up to 100 mg/kg, p.o. did not alter bleeding time in rat. Thus, KC-404 is expected to be of therapeutic value in cerebrovascular disorders accompanying thrombus in cerebral vasculature.
Low-density lipoproteins inhibit endothelium-dependent relaxation in rabbit aorta.	The vascular endothelium, in response to pulsatile flow and vasoactive agents including acetylcholine, secretes the endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF), a substance which regulates vascular tone. Recent interest in EDRF has focused on its possible dysfunction in atherosclerosis. In animal models of the disease, endothelium-dependent relaxation is markedly reduced. The continuous exposure of the endothelium in hyperlipidaemia to high concentrations of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), a known atherogenic risk factor, may explain this dysfunction. Here, we demonstrate that pathophysiological concentrations of LDL directly inhibit endothelium-dependent relaxation. Chemically modified LDL, in contrast, is inactive, implying that the inhibition is through a receptor-dependent mechanism.
Endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation induced by Cn-acetal plasmalogens.	In this study the effects of the synthetic acetal plasmalogens (AP) C17-AP, C13-AP, C9-AP on isolated rabbit aorta were investigated with emphasis on their putative relationship with endothelium-dependent relaxing factor (EDRF). The various AP were obtained by total synthesis from the related fatty acid chlorides. In isolated rabbit aorta precontracted with phenylephrine (PE, 10(-7) M), C17-AP (greater than 10(-6) M) and C13-AP (greater than 10(-5) M) exerted an endothelium-dependent relaxation (EDR). In contrast, C9-AP was totally devoid of effect. Given 30 or 45 min before PE, C17-AP (greater than 10(-6) M) and C13-AP (greater than 10(-5) M) abolished the carbachol-induced ERD; moreover, following preincubation with C17-AP, enhanced contraction was obtained with carbachol. Similar effects were obtained with preincubation of aortas with both AA(10(-4) M) and A 23 187 (10(-8) M). Conversely preincubation of aortas with carbachol (3X 10(-6) M) and ATP (3 X 10(-5) M) did not significantly modify the carbachol-induced EDR. Atropine (3 X 10(-7) M) did not affect the relaxation induced by C17-AP and C13-AP. The in vivo effects are correlated with the in vitro actions of acetal plasmalogens: C17-AP and C13-AP but not C9-AP, given iv (5 mg/kg) induced a pronounced but transient hypotension which lasted 2-3 min and which was followed by a persistent hypertensive state. Atropine (0.5 and 1 mg/kg; iv) given 5 min before C17-AP inhibited the secondary hypertensive phase. These results show that C17-AP and C13-AP should be added to the list of compounds capable of releasing EDRF.
Hemodynamic effects of a new alpha-1 antagonist, AR-C 239 administrated in intravenous bolus, in patients with cardiac insufficiency]	A new specific alpha-1 antagonist was studied in 16 patients with left ventricular failure. In Group I (8 patients) the drug was given as a 40 micrograms/kg intravenous bolus, and in Group II (8 patients) at the dose of 80 micrograms/kg. A thermodilution Swan-Ganz catheter, a Millar microtransducer introduced via the femoral artery were relayed to a SYSCOMORAM system to record the systemic artery pressures (SAP), pulmonary artery pressures (PAP), left ventricular pressures, and to calculate cardiac output and systemic and pulmonary arterial resistances (SAR, PAR) over a 30 minute period. In Group I (40 micrograms/kg), administration of AR-C 239 led to a significant decrease in PAP and SAP (-24 +/- 17 p. 100, p less than 0.02) with a fall in time-tension index (-20 +/- 19 p. 100, p less than 0.05) and a significant increase in LV stroke volume (+23 +/- 12 p. 100, p less than 0.01). At 80 micrograms/kg there was also a fall in LV filling pressures (-29 +/- 25 p. 100, p less than 0.05) and PAP (-38 +/- 28 p. 100, p less than 0.02) and an improvement in LV compliance (Gaaschisk -43 +/- 19 p. 100, p less than 0.01). These results show that AR-C 239 is a powerful vasodilator without secondary beta mimetic effects or influence on LV contractility; it may provide an effective means of treating cardiac failure.
Treatment of chronic cardiac failure with cadralazine. Short- and medium-term results]	The clinical and haemodynamic effects of a single oral dose of cadralazine were studied in 22 patients with an average age of 64 years presenting with severe chronic cardiac failure. Haemodynamic monitoring during the first 24 hours after oral administration of 30 mg of cadralazine showed a peak increase at the 8th hour of the cardiac index (+ 64 p. 100, p less than 0.001), the systolic index (+ 45 p. 100, p less than 0.001) and the left ventricular work (+ 52 p. 100, p less than 0.001) whilst the systemic and pulmonary arterial resistances decreased by 40 p. 100 (p less than 0.0001) and 30 p. 100 (p less than 0.01) respectively. There was no significant change in heart rate or diastolic pulmonary arterial pressures. The haemodynamic improvement was maintained at the 24th hour (cardiac index + 35 p. 100, p less than 0.01 and systemic arterial resistances - 20 p. 100). These results were confirmed at one month. There were few side effects, none of which necessitated withdrawal of the drug. This study shows the efficacy of a single 30 mg daily dose of cadralazine, an arterial vasodilator, in patients with severe cardiac failure. The treatment was well tolerated over the one month study period.
IL-1 and IFN-gamma increase vascular permeability.	We examined the effect of cytokines on vascular permeability in vivo. Wistar rats received intradermal injections of various cytokine preparations and the permeability index (delta PI) was calculated from the difference between the absorption values of cytokine- and vehicle-treated skin sections after the extraction of accumulated Evans blue vital dye. Injections of a mixture of recombinant interleukin-1 alpha and beta (Il-1 alpha, IL-1 beta) and interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) caused a maximal increase of permeability after 30 min (delta PI = 2). The administration of single recombinant cytokines revealed that the increase of permeability is mainly due to the action of IL-1 beta (delta PI = 1.4) and IFN-gamma (delta PI = 2.9) (P less than 0.001) at doses of 1-20 microU per injection site. IL-1 alpha slightly increased vascular permeability, whereas recombinant IL-2 and recombinant tumour necrosis factor alpha had no significant effects. Histological observations revealed significantly increased numbers of degranulated mast cells in skin sections pretreated with IL-1 beta (P less than 0.005) or IFN-gamma (P less than 0.001). The cytokine-mediated rise of vascular permeability could be suppressed by pretreatment of the animals with the vasoactive amine antagonizing drugs methysergide, pizotifen and cyproheptadine. Our experiments indicate an important role of IL-1 beta and IFN-gamma as vasoactive substances besides their function as hormone-like messengers between leucocytes.
Heterogeneity of the response of venous smooth muscle to arterial endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) in respect of the role of nitric oxide.	In bioassay and organ bath experiments, the responses of different canine venous preparations to arterial and their own EDRF were studied. Vena jugularis, vena femoralis and vena mesenterica relaxed on both EDRFs released by acetylcholine. Vena saphena, venae cordis and vena portae did not show endothelium-dependent dilation, either under bioassay or in organ bath experiments. All the veins tested relaxed completely after sodium nitroprusside administration. The identity of EDRF and nitric oxide is not confirmed by this study.
Chemical modification of tumour blood flow.	The preferential modification of tumour blood flow with chemical agents has been extensively investigated for the purpose of improving the treatment of tumours with ionizing radiation, chemicals and hyperthermia. In this paper I have utilized representative vasoactive drugs to demonstrate the various mechanisms via which tumour haemodynamics can be modified selectively. Chemicals which alter tumour blood flow by changing blood viscosity are also discussed. Of particular interest are the calcium entry blockers, flunarizine and verapamil, which have been shown to increase tumour blood flow, tumour oxygenation, tumour radiation sensitivity and the cytotoxicity of chemotherapeutic agents. These encouraging research results provide compelling evidence that these two drugs may prove to be useful adjuvants for radiation therapy.
Influence of prostacyclin and two metabolites on the contractility of cultured rat heart cells.	Heart cells were cultured from newborn rats, and the contractile activity (CA) and beating frequency (BF) were recorded using an electrooptical technique. Myocardial cells were found to be highly sensitive to Prostacyclin (PGI2) since a 10(-11) M concentration increased the BF and CA. Increasing the concentration (2.7 x 10(-10) to 2.7 x 10(-8) M) resulted in a dose-dependent decrease in CA and BF. The stable product of the non-enzymatic degradation of PGI2 (6 Keto PGF1 alpha) was found to be completely ineffective, and the stable product of the enzymatic PGI2 metabolism (6 Keto PGE1) exerted only a dose-dependent (10(-6) to 10(-5) M) positive inotropic effect. PGI2 was also effective in the presence of serum instead of culture medium but the decrease in CA was less marked than in culture medium, probably due to protein-binding of the drug. When the CA was decreased by PGI2, perfusion with the intracellular calcium-releasing and phosphodiesterase inhibiting agent, caffeine, reversed the PGI2-induced negative inotropic effect. These results suggest that PGI2 participates in the regulation of the heart cell contractility. Its metabolite 6 Keto PGEI could also influence heart cell contractility but higher concentrations are needed. Moreover myocardial intracellular calcium availability seems to be influenced by PGI2.
Cardiovascular effects of the novel arteriovenous dilator agent, flosequinan in conscious dogs and cats.	1. Flosequinan (BTS 49 465, 7-fluoro-1-methyl-3-methylsulphinyl-4-quinolone) a novel arteriovenous dilator agent was orally effective in conscious renal hypertensive dogs and normotensive cats. The hypotensive potency of flosequinan was approximately ten times less than that of hydralazine in renal hypertensive dogs, 10 mg kg-1 and 20 mg kg-1 flosequinan causing similar falls in mean blood pressure to 1 mg kg-1 and 3 mg kg-1 hydralazine respectively. In normotensive cats, 5 mg kg-1 flosequinan caused similar falls to 0.5 and 1.0 mg kg-1 hydralazine. The onset of hypotensive effect after flosequinan appeared to be slightly slower than after hydralazine in the dog and slightly faster than hydralazine in the cat. 2. The degree of tachycardia and increase in plasma renin activity (PRA) for equivalent falls in mean blood pressure in both species was significantly less for flosequinan than for hydralazine (P less than 0.05). 3. In normotensive dogs, flosequinan, 10 and 20 mg kg-1 orally, caused a small but non-significant increase in sodium and chloride excretion and had little effect on urine volume whereas hydralazine, 1 and 3 mg kg-1 orally, caused a marked retention of sodium and chloride ions and a reduction in urine volume (P less than 0.01). 4. Neither flosequinan, 10 mg kg-1 orally, nor hydralazine 1 mg kg-1 orally, affected either glomerular filtration rate measured as creatinine clearance or effective renal plasma flow measured as p-aminohippuric acid clearance in normotensive dogs. 5. The lesser degree of tachycardia and increase in plasma renin activity together with a lack of sodium retaining activity associated with flosequinan suggest that this agent may have potential advantages over existing therapy as an antihypertensive in man.
Age-related changes in the response to vasoconstrictor and dilator agents in isolated beagle coronary arteries.	Responses to vasoactive agents were compared in helical strips of coronary arteries isolated from beagles of 30 days, 3 months, 2 years and 12 years old. Serotonin contracted the arterial strips dose-dependently, the contraction being greater in the arteries of proximal portion than in the distal arteries. The contraction increases with age from 3 months to 12 years, although EC50 values did not differ. Angiotensin II contracted distal coronary arteries to a greater extent than the proximal ones. Age did not alter the peptide-induced contraction. In prostaglandin F2 alpha-contracted coronary arteries, acetylcholine-induced relaxations, dependent on endothelium, were less in the arteries from senescent beagles than in those from adult beagles (2 years old). Histamine relaxed the infant beagle arteries to a lesser extent than the adult and senescent beagle arteries. Histamine-induced relaxations were attenuated selectively by cimetidine. Relaxations caused by adenosine and prostaglandin I2 did not differ in coronary arteries from beagles of different ages. It may be concluded that greater responsiveness to serotonin of senescent beagle coronary arteries is due preferentially to increased function of serotonergic receptors rather than impaired function of the arterial endothelium responsible for the release of relaxing factor(s), although some impairment of the function is supposed, on the basis of interferences with acetylcholine-induced relaxation in the aged beagle arteries. Histaminergic H2 receptor function appears to develop in beagle coronary arteries until 3 months of age.
The effect of hydralazine dose on blood perfusion changes during hyperthermia.	Experiments were performed to determine the dose-related effects of the intravenous administration of a vasodilator (hydralazine) on normal muscle blood perfusion during localized hyperthermia. Fourteen anaesthetized outbred canines were investigated, seven receiving the recommended dose level of 0.5 mg/kg and seven receiving one-quarter of that level. The changes in blood perfusion were estimated using two methods: calculation of an effective blood perfusion magnitude and the use of state and parameter estimation techniques. Both methods showed that the changes in blood perfusion induced by the hydralazine were significant, and that the differences between the results for the two drug doses were not significantly different. This suggests that low doses may be useful in humans, giving the same resultant blood perfusion increase but with a decreased patient risk relative to standard therapeutic doses of hydralazine. While the trends in the blood perfusion changes were the same for both calculation methods the effective perfusion method frequently yielded blood perfusion magnitudes significantly different from those obtained using the state and parameter estimation technique. The differences are postulated to be due to the fact that the effective perfusion values include conduction effects, thus overpredicting the amount of perfusion present. Thus, while the effective blood perfusion can be used as a qualitative indication of blood perfusion changes under certain conditions, we do not recommend its use as a quantitative measure of perfusion.
Metabolism of exogenous noradrenaline in constricted and in distended rabbit ear arteries.	(1) The metabolism of extraluminal and of intraluminal 3H-noradrenaline (3H-NA; 0.18 mumol/l) was examined in arteries from reserpine-pretreated rabbits. The arteries were perfused in Ca medium (a) in the absence of prazosin to permit constriction to occur, (b) in the presence of prazosin, and (c) at a high intraluminal pressure (110 mm Hg; prazosin present) in order to distend the vessel. (2) The constrictor activity of the extraluminal NA was extremely weak, and antagonism by prazosin was not associated with a change in metabolite formation. The only change accompanying distension was a small (24%) increase in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylene glycol (DOPEG) formation. (3) The constrictor activity of intraluminal NA was much stronger than that of extraluminal NA. Antagonism of constriction by prazosin was accompanied by a 5-fold increase in DOPEG formation and a 2-fold increase in normetanephrine (NMN) formation. Distension resulted in a further 3-fold increase in DOPEG formation, but had little effect on NMN formation. (4) Since DOPEG is neuronal in origin, it is suggested that the changes in DOPEG formation in point 3 above reflect changes in the rate at which the intraluminal NA diffuses into the region of the sympathetic nerve terminals. In support of this suggestion, (a) distension was without effect when DOPEG formation was related to the vascular dimensions which determine rate of diffusion of NA, instead of to vascular mass, and (b) effects of constriction and distension on the rate of diffusion of intraluminal 14C-sorbitol across the artery wall paralleled their effects on DOPEG formation. (5) The effects of constriction on NMN formation in point 3 are attributed to diminished uptake2 (on which NMN formation depends) in the contracted smooth muscle, in association with tendencies for both NMN formation, and contractile activity, to be localized to the region of the vessel wall closest to the surface of entry of the NA. (6) Diffusion coefficients of 14C-sorbitol were estimated. The estimates indicate that (a) the changes in vascular dimensions are the prime determinants of rates of diffusion, (b) diffusivity is decreased when the vessel constricts, and (c) there may be bulk flow of the intraluminal medium into the vessel wall when it is distended by a high intraluminal pressure.
In vivo pharmacological studies with SK&F 94836, a potent inotrope/vasodilator with a sustained duration of action.	1. SK&F 94836 (racemate) was studied in vivo for its cardiovascular properties in cats and dogs. 2. In anaesthetized cats and dogs SK&F 94836 administered intravenously caused increases in left ventricular contractility and decreases in peripheral vascular resistance at similar doses, thus demonstrating the compound to be a mixed acting positive inotropic/vasodilator agent. 3. In conscious instrumented dogs SK&F 94836 was active via the oral as well as intravenous route. 4. The inodilator activity of SK&F 94836 in conscious and anaesthetized animals occurred in association with minimal changes in either blood pressure or heart rate. 5. Detailed studies carried out on anaesthetized cats indicated that SK&F 94836 caused a balanced dilatation of both resistance and capacitance blood vessels. 6. Haemodynamic studies in anaesthetized cats indicated that as a consequence of the inotropic/vasodilator actions, SK&F 94836 caused significant increases in cardiac output and stroke volume. 7. Detailed studies in anaesthetized dogs indicated that significant inodilator activity occurred in the absence of an increase in myocardial oxygen consumption. 8. The duration of action of SK&F 94836 was sustained following both i.v. and oral administration. 9. We conclude that SK&F 94836, as an orally active inotropic/vasodilator agent with a sustained duration in vivo, has potential utility in the treatment of congestive heart failure.
Vasodilator responses in perfused rabbit kidney: the role of endothelium.	The responses to vasodilator agents of renal vasculature were studied in perfused rabbit kidney. Acetylcholine (ACh) and calcium-ionophore (A23187), as endothelium-dependent relaxing agents, and prostacyclin (PGI2), an endothelium-independent vasodilator, induced a rapid and reversible fall in perfusion pressure of the noradrenaline (NA) constricted renal vasculature. The vasodilator responses of the preparations were not lost after perfusing the kidney with hypotonic Krebs-solution or 10 mumol/l mepacrine. Collagenase treatment significantly reduced the vasodilator responses, not only to ACh and A23187, but also to PGI2. Perfusion of the renal vascular bed with dexamethason did not influence the vasodilator responses. Exposure of the renal vasculature to p-bromophenacylbromide (PBPB), which is a known inhibitor of phospholipases, markedly reduced the ACh- and A23187-induced vasodilatation. The responses to PGI2, however, were also moderately depressed in the presence of PBPB. The lipoxygenase-inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid (NDGA), inhibited the responses to ACh and A23187, but did not reduce the responses to PGI2. Some commonly used methods and chemicals, that have been successful in destroying the endothelium of large vessels, were not effective in renal vasculature. We failed to demonstrate that the inhibitory actions of these treatments were specific for the endothelium-dependent responses. Our results provide indirect evidence for the involvement of lipoxygenase products in the vasodilatation responses of the rabbit kidney and for a possible role of endothelium in the reactivity of renal vasculature.
Effects of basic drugs on the hepatic transport of cardiac glycosides in rats.	The effects of some basic and acidic drugs on the hepatic uptake of digoxin and ouabain were studied in isolated rat hepatocytes. Digoxin accumulated against a concentration gradient, and its initial uptake was energy- and temperature-dependent. Digoxin competitively inhibited the uptake of ouabain (Ki = 1.3 microM), which was reported to be transported by a carrier-mediated active transport system. All basic drugs tested (verapamil, dipyridamole, amiodarone, nifedipine, diltiazem, ajmaline, chlorpromazine, imipramine, disopyramide, quinidine, procainamide, propranolol and lidocaine: 50 microM) except for procainamide, propranolol and lidocaine significantly (P less than 0.05) reduced the uptake of digoxin, whereas acidic drugs (salicylic acid and phenytoin) had no effect. The same inhibitory effects were observed for ouabain uptake, whereas the uptake of alanine was not changed by these drugs. Quinidine inhibited the uptake of ouabain in a noncompetitive manner (Ki = 88 microM). These basic drugs had no effect on the permeability of the cells assessed by the trypan blue exclusion test and succinate-simulated oxygen consumption. But carbonylcyanide-m-chlorophenyl hydrazone-stimulated oxygen consumption decreased in the presence of some basic drugs and correlated with their inhibitory effects on digoxin uptake. Therefore, one of the mechanisms of the inhibitory effects of these drugs on digoxin uptake was the inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation. These basic drugs had no effect on the microtubular system, which was assessed by the measurement of tubulin polymerization and colchicine binding to tubulin. The results of our study suggested that many basic drugs have a potential to inhibit the hepatocellular uptake of cardiac glycosides.
Heterogeneous vasomotor responses of anatomically distinct feline cerebral arteries.	1. The vasomotor reactivity to a number of neurotransmitters and blood-borne substances was evaluated in several anatomically distinct arteries of the cat cerebral circulation. Few regional differences were observed in their vasoconstrictor responses to noradrenaline, dopamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and prostaglandin F2 alpha. Only the anterior cerebral artery reacted strongly to all vasoconstrictor agents. 2. Adenosine, acetylcholine and histamine induced pronounced relaxation in the vast majority of the major cerebral arteries. The relaxation elicited by adenosine showed a slight degree of heterogeneity between the arteries and the overall response accounted for 81 +/- 6% of the pharmacologically-induced tone. On the other hand, the dilatation induced by acetylcholine and histamine varied as a function of the anatomical localization of the cerebral arteries. The acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation was significantly more pronounced in the middle cerebral, anterior communicating and anterior cerebellar arteries, with respective responses of 72, 66 and 83% of the induced tone as compared to 43% in the other vessels. However, all arteries were equally sensitive to acetylcholine with an overall mean pD2 value of 7.47 +/- 0.06. The most heterogeneous results were obtained with histamine and applied both to the magnitude of the maximal response and the sensitivity of the various arteries to this amine. The intensity of the relaxation varied from 20% (anterior communicating artery) to 118% (posterior cerebellar artery). 3. Among the neuropeptides studied, substance P and bradykinin were considerably less potent than vasoactive intestinal peptide on all the cerebral arteries. The least responsive vessel to bradykinin was the anterior cerebral artery with a maximal response of 22 +/- 5% of the induced-tone and a pD2 value of 7.56 +/- 0.24. All vessels responded weakly to substance P and those from the vertebrobasilar circulation were significantly less sensitive to this neuropeptide with pD2 values around 8.07 as compared to 9.82 in the more rostral arteries. Although all vessels were equally sensitive to vasoactive intestinal peptide, the dilator responses were significantly less pronounced in the middle cerebral and basilar arteries (maximal response of 86 +/- 5% and 69 +/- 6% of the induced-tone, respectively, as compared to 110 +/- 9% in the other vessels). 4. The vertebrobasilar arteries were as reactive, if not more reactive, to vasoconstrictors than the vessels originating from the carotid circulation. In contrast, the dilator responses were less marked in most caudal arteries. Such dichotomies may be important in the regulation of local cerebral blood flow. 5. The results emphasize the considerable heterogeneity in the vasomotor responses to a given substance among the various cerebral arteries. Further, they suggest the presence of multiple receptor populations which mediate opposite effects and which are distributed in different proportions among the cephalic arteries.
Endothelium-derived relaxing factor inhibits in vitro platelet aggregation.	We studied the effects of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF), bovine retractor penis muscle inhibitory factor and sodium nitroprusside, three stimulants of guanylate cyclase, on the in vitro aggregation of washed human platelets. Platelet aggregation induced either by collagen or by the thromboxane A2 analogue U46619 was inhibited by all three agents. The anti-aggregatory effect of each agent was inhibited by haemoglobin. The anti-aggregatory effect of EDRF was potentiated by superoxide dismutase. These findings are discussed in relation to a potential role for EDRF in haemostasis.
Nitric oxide release accounts for the biological activity of endothelium-derived relaxing factor.	Endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) is a labile humoral agent which mediates the action of some vasodilators. Nitrovasodilators, which may act by releasing nitric oxide (NO), mimic the effect of EDRF and it has recently been suggested by Furchgott that EDRF may be NO. We have examined this suggestion by studying the release of EDRF and NO from endothelial cells in culture. No was determined as the chemiluminescent product of its reaction with ozone. The biological activity of EDRF and of NO was measured by bioassay. The relaxation of the bioassay tissues induced by EDRF was indistinguishable from that induced by NO. Both substances were equally unstable. Bradykinin caused concentration-dependent release of NO from the cells in amounts sufficient to account for the biological activity of EDRF. The relaxations induced by EDRF and NO were inhibited by haemoglobin and enhanced by superoxide dismutase to a similar degree. Thus NO released from endothelial cells is indistinguishable from EDRF in terms of biological activity, stability, and susceptibility to an inhibitor and to a potentiator. We suggest that EDRF and NO are identical.
Heterogeneity in mechanisms of bradykinin action in canine isolated blood vessels.	The relaxation induced by bradykinin in helical strips of coronary arteries contracted with prostaglandin (PG) F2 alpha was abolished by removal of the endothelium and was markedly suppressed by treatment with methylene blue or AA861, a lipoxygenase inhibitor. Indomethacin did not alter the response. Renal arterial relaxation by bradykinin was partially reduced by removal of the endothelium. Indomethacin moderately attenuated the response in the strips with endothelium and additional treatment with methylene blue or AA861 suppressed the response further. Tranylcypromine or diphloretin phosphate, an antagonist of PGI2, attenuated the peptide-induced relaxation. In mesenteric veins, the relaxation induced by bradykinin was slightly reduced by removal of the endothelium; indomethacin reversed the relaxation to a contraction in the strips with or without endothelium. Des-Arg9-[Leu8]bradykinin, a bradykinin B1 antagonist, did not alter the relaxation due to bradykinin in coronary arteries but reduced the response of mesenteric veins. It appears that bradykinin-induced relaxation is associated exclusively with EDRF in dog coronary arteries, with both PGI2 and EDRF in the renal arteries, and only with PGI2 liberated from endothelial and subendothelial tissues in the mesenteric veins. The release of PGI2 and EDRF may be mediated by activation of B1 and B2 receptor subtypes, respectively.
Electrophysiological effects of diclofurime on rabbit and frog atrial heart muscle.	The effects of diclofurime on the electrical activity of the rabbit sinus node, rabbit atria and frog atrial fibres were studied using microelectrode and the double sucrose gap voltage-clamp techniques respectively. In rabbit sinus node, diclofurime (10(-7) M to 10(-6) M) decreased the action potential (AP) amplitude and maximum rate of depolarization (Vmax), increased the AP duration and slowed the sinus rate. In rabbit atria, the drug reduced the amplitude of the depolarizing phase and Vmax, lengthened the AP duration and decreased the resting membrane potential. In frog atrial fibres, the drug (10(-5) M) depolarized the resting membrane potential, decreased Vmax as well as the plateau amplitude. It inhibited the sodium current (INa) with a dissociation constant of 3.7 X 10(-6) M and a one to one relationship between the drug molecule and the Na channel. Diclofurime did not alter the apparent reversal potential for the fast Na current (ENa) but it inhibited the sodium conductance (GNa) in a frequency-dependent manner. Diclofurime also blocked the slow inward current (Islow) without alteration of Eslow. The block of Islow occurred with a dissociation constant of 2 X 10(-5) M and unity stoichiometry. The data suggest that diclofurime might be effective in the control of cardiac arrythmias since it exhibited both local anaesthetic-like and calcium antagonistic properties.
Diuretic effect induced by intrarenal infusion of pinacidil in anesthetized dogs.	The diuretic action of pinacidil, a new vasodilating antihypertensive agent, was studied using anesthetized dogs. Intrarenally administered pinacidil (0.4, 2.0 and 10 micrograms/kg/min) produced a dose-related increase of renal blood flow, without altering mean arterial pressure. The glomerular filtration rate significantly increased only with the highest dosage. Pinacidil caused a dose-related augmentation of urine formation and, when given at 10 micrograms/kg/min, increased urine flow and urinary excretion of electrolytes to about 10 times and 3 to 9 times over the respective control value. In comparison, hydralazine (4.0 and 20 micrograms/kg/min) produced no significant diuretic action and bradykinin, given at a dose (0.02 micrograms/kg/min) equipotent to pinacidil (10 micrograms/kg/min) with respect to increasing renal blood flow, was less effective. Pinacidil administration significantly increased the fractional excretion of phosphate. Thus, pinacidil-induced diuresis seems to be due mainly to the vasodilating effect on renal vessels, with some contribution from an inhibitory effect on sodium reabsorption in the proximal tubules.
Effects of ifenprodil glucuronide derivative on platelet aggregation and vasocontraction.	It has been supposed that ifenprodil glucuronide derivative, detectable in large amount in rabbit plasma, is related to the pharmacological actions by ifenprodil tartrate. However, a synthesized ifenprodil glucuronide derivative was found to have no effect on platelet aggregation and vasocontraction in vitro. These results indicate that ifenprodil itself rather than its glucuronide derivative manifested the pharmacological actions.
Evaluation of the vasodilator vs inotropic effect of milrinone using an animal model of left ventricular failure: reversal of disopyramide depression of the myocardium with milrinone.	Milrinone (M) has been shown to improve left ventricular (LV) performance in animal and human studies. M has strong vasodilator action, and whether increased LV performance is due primarily to vasodilation or to a direct positive inotropic effect is unclear. Ten mongrel dogs were studied. Disopyramide caused a significant and sustained decrease in LV function and was a good model for myocardial depression. At equal reduction in systemic vascular resistance (SVR), M reversed this LV depression to a significantly greater degree than nitroprusside (NP) did. At equal levels of vasodilation, M produced significantly greater improvement in indices of LV function than NP did in our model of disopyramide-induced LV failure. This suggest that its effect on LV function is not due entirely to afterload reduction, or to reflex sympathetic stimulation, but has a substantial component of direct inotropic stimulation. This study also demonstrated a reversal of disopyramide-induced LV dysfunction by M, which may be clinically useful since, as in many antiarrhythmics, myocardial depression may be a limiting factor in its use.
Tetraethylammonium induced coronary spasm in isolated perfused rabbit heart: a hypothesis for the mechanism of coronary spasm.	The vasoactive effect of tetraethylammonium, which is known to reduce potassium conductance of the membrane of arterial smooth muscle cells, was tested on large epicardial coronary arteries in isolated perfused rabbit hearts. These hearts were perfused selectively through the right and left coronary arteries. Left coronary angiography was performed using Krebs-Henseleit solution containing phenolsulfonphthalein under constant pressure, and the epicardial electrogram was recorded. In 59 of 114 hearts 30 mmol.litre-1 tetraethylammonium induced severe constriction of the left epicardial coronary artery, which was associated with electrocardiographic ST segment elevation in some cases. The induced spasm was prevented by diltiazem (200 nmol.litre-1), glyceryl trinitrate (2 mumol.litre-1), or nicorandil (10 mumol.litre-1), but not by phentolamine (1 mumol.litre-1) or atropine (1 mumol.litre-1). In hearts in which tetraethylammonium did not induce spasm, subsequent addition of ergonovine (100 nmol.litre-1) or alkalinisation of the perfusate (pH 7.65-7.70) provoked spasm. The tetraethylammonium induced spasm resembled the coronary spasm seen in patients with variant angina and was a reproducible in vitro model of coronary spasm. These observations support the hypothesis that the primary defect in patients with coronary spasm is decreased potassium permeability of the membrane of coronary arterial smooth muscle cells.
In vivo animal demonstration of the effect of vasoactive drugs using 195mAu and gamma camera techniques.	195mAu, an ultrashort-lived (physical half life = 30.5 s) generator-produced radionuclide, has been used in an animal model to study, by gamma camera techniques, the peripheral effects of the vasoactive drugs norepinephrine and sodium nitroprusside systemically administered or epinephrine (intraarterially) injected at various concentrations. According to the results obtained by the analysis of time activity curves generated from areas of interest drawn on the proximal and distal parts of the limbs, the well known hemodynamic changes induced by these drugs, vasoconstriction (resulting in a decrease of the distal activity recorded), or vasodilatation (shortening the time of radioactivity appearance), could be observed. It is concluded that gamma camera techniques using the ultrashort lived radionuclide 195mAu allow the in vivo study of the effects of vasoactive drugs in an animal model and potentially in clinical situations.
Inhibition of plasma cholinesterase prevents the dopamine DA-1 receptor mediated renal vasodilation produced by ibopamine.	We have studied the dopamine DA-1 receptor mediated renal vasodilator response of the inotropic pro-drug, ibopamine, the diisobutyrate ester of epinine. In anesthetized dogs pretreated with phenoxybenzamine and propranolol to eliminate alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor mediated responses, respectively, ibopamine and epinine produced dose-dependent renal vasodilation. Treatment of animals with the cholinesterase inhibitor, physostigmine, markedly inhibited the renal vasodilation produced by ibopamine, but had no effect on the renal vasodilator response of epinine. We conclude that hydrolysis of ibopamine by plasma cholinesterase to yield epinine is necessary for the production of the dopamine DA-1 receptor mediated renal vasodilator response to ibopamine.
Changes in the microcirculation in the rat mesentery during hypotension induced by adenosine]	In anesthetized rats, i.v. administration of adenosine (2.5 mg/kg/min) for 30 min caused reduction of mean systemic blood pressure. A significant decrease of blood flow was found in mesentery microvessels as well as dilation of arterioles and venules.
The actions of nifedipine and nisoldipine on the contractile activity of human coronary arteries and human cardiac tissue in vitro.	We have studied the action of nifedipine and nisoldipine on the contractile activity of human isolated coronary arteries and human isolated auricular and ventricular muscles. Nisoldipine depressed dose dependently the spontaneous rhythmic contractions displayed by the coronary artery preparations and at 1 nM abolished these contractions. Nisoldipine was twenty times more potent than nifedipine as an inhibitor of increase in tone induced by depolarization (100 mM K+). The rhythmic activity induced by serotonin (10 microM) was about five times more sensitive to nisoldipine than to nifedipine. In both auricular and ventricular preparations, isoprenaline evoked an increase in the rate of force development and in the rate of relaxation. Nifedipine was five times (ventricular muscles) and ten times (auricular muscles) more potent than nisoldipine as a negative inotropic agent. The present observations in human isolated preparations indicate that nisoldipine shows a higher vascular selectivity than nifedipine.
A comparison of the cardiac and vasodilatory effects of some calcium entry blockers in perfused isolated guinea-pig hearts.	The chronotropic, inotropic and coronary vasodilator actions of several calcium entry blockers have been compared in isolated guinea-pig hearts. Following the subdivision of calcium entry blockers as proposed by Spedding (1985), we have studied nifedipine (dihydropyridine) (group I), verapamil (phenylalkylamine) and diltiazem (benzothiazepine) (group II), flunarizine and lidoflazine (both diphenylalkylamines) as well as bepridil (group III). Moreover, the effect of the calcium entry blockers upon the calcium induced inotropic response was assessed. All calcium entry blockers displayed a clear negative inotropic, negative chronotropic and coronary vasodilating effect. The order of potency for the negative inotropic, coronary dilator and negative chronotropic actions of the calcium entry blockers was, for inotropy: nifedipine greater than verapamil greater than flunarizine = bepridil greater than lidoflazine greater than diltiazem, for coronary flow: nifedipine greater than verapamil greater than lidoflazine = flunarizine greater than diltiazem greater than bepridil, for chronotropy: nifedipine greater than verapamil greater than lidoflazine greater than flunarizine greater than diltiazem greater than bepridil. With respect to the cardiac parameters, the diphenylalkylamines were more potent in their action than described previously by other authors. Equi-effective doses with respect to the negative inotropic effect of the calcium entry blockers studied also displayed the same effectiveness upon calcium-induced inotropic responses. This suggests that the negative inotropic effect of the calcium entry blockers investigated is the result of a calcium antagonistic effect without the contribution of other actions of these drugs. However, the different potency orders for the coronary dilator and negative chronotropic actions of the calcium entry blockers and the differences in maximum for coronary dilator effects suggest that other mechanisms (such as calmodulin antagonism, adenosine uptake inhibition and sodium channel blockade), may contribute to these effects.
Reversal by hypothermia of vasodilator-induced tachycardia in anesthetized rats.	The normal cardiovascular response to hydralazine in urethane-anesthetized rats, i.e. hypotension and tachycardia, was changed to hypotension and bradycardia if the body temperature of the animals was not maintained constant by external heating, but was allowed to decrease spontaneously throughout the experiment. A similar phenomenon was observed with diazoxide. In rats maintained at a rectal temperature of 31 degrees C, hydralazine bradycardia was partially blocked by a low dose of atropine and was reversed to tachycardia by a high dose of this agent; mecamylamine failed to influence heart rate lowering in this condition. Heart rate responses in unheated animals to acetylcholine and isopropylarterenol were respectively potentiated and depressed when compared to responses in heated rats. These findings suggest that cold-induced reciprocal changes in reactivity of cardiac muscarinic and beta-adrenoceptors may be responsible for reversal of hydralazine or diazoxide tachycardia in urethane-anesthetized hypothermic rats. As a result, cardiac stimulation by the sympatho-adrenal discharge induced by hypotension is inhibited, while cardiac depression which is apparently also induced by hypotension, is facilitated. It is speculated that vasopressin, released as a consequence of the blood pressure fall, could be this negative chronotropic factor.
Stimulation by trifluoperazine of p-aminohippurate accumulation in rat kidney cortical slices.	The effects of trifluoperazine and another phenothiazine, chlorpromazine, on p-aminohippurate (PAH) transport in rat kidney cortical slices were examined. Increasing concentrations of trifluoperazine up to 0.1 mM progressively stimulated PAH accumulation in the slices, but a higher concentration of trifluoperazine (0.3 mM) did not cause stimulation. Chlorpromazine also had biphasic effects on PAH accumulation. Both drugs had biphasic effects on hypotonic hemolysis as well, i.e., they protected the erythrocytes at low concentrations, and lysed them at high ones. The effect of trifluoperazine and chlorpromazine on the kinetics of PAH accumulation was to increase Vmax, while the apparent Km remained constant. The efflux of PAH from the slices was significantly decreased by these antipsychotic drugs. The stimulation by trifluoperazine of PAH accumulation was blocked by tetraethylammonium. These results suggest that the antipsychotic drug, when taken up or adsorbed by the slices, stimulates PAH accumulation and that such stimulation may arise at least in part because of membrane stabilization.
Blood flow distribution within skeletal muscle during exercise in the presence of chronic heart failure: effect of milrinone.	Recent studies suggest that, in the presence of heart failure, the capability of skeletal muscle to utilize delivered flow may be impaired due to maldistribution of blood flow within working muscle. Similarly, this mechanism could explain the failure of drugs to improve maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max) immediately. Accordingly, we assessed muscular blood flow distribution (ml/min/g, radioactive microspheres, 15 +/- 5 micron) among and within working muscle, VO2max, and arterial lactate in a rat preparation of myocardial infarction and heart failure (infarct size 36.0 +/- 3.3% of the left ventricle, n = 9), and in sham-operated animals (n = 11). Data were obtained at maximal treadmill exercise during alternate infusions of milrinone and saline. Total skeletal muscle blood flow during exercise was significantly lower in the infarction group (p less than .05 vs sham); reduced blood flow was primarily attributed to decreased flow to oxidative working muscle such as soleus and the red portion of gastrocnemius, whereas blood flow to glycolytic muscle portions (e.g., gastrocnemius white, vastus lateralis white) was similar in the infarction and sham-operated groups. Milrinone increased flow to the glycolytic working muscle portions in sham-operated animals (e.g., vastus lateralis white, 0.23 vs 0.29, p less than .05); by contrast, blood flow to the oxidative muscle fibers was increased in the infarction group (e.g., gastrocnemius red, 1.45 vs 1.87, p less than .05). Arterial lactate levels at similar workloads during exercise were higher in the infarction group (p less than .05). Neither lactate nor VO2max were significantly altered with milrinone in either group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Absence of reflex sympathetic activation by the selective renal vasodilator CGP 22979A in the conscious rat.	The effects of the selective renal vasodilator prodrug CGP 22979A on mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), heart rate (HR) and sympathetic efferent splanchnic nerve activity (SpNA) were investigated in conscious normotensive rats, and compared with those of the active drug CGP 18137A, a hydrallazine-like systemic vasodilator. CGP 18137A (0.03 to 1mg/kg i.v.) produced a dose-dependent decrease in MAP, whereas HR and SpNA increased. CGP 22979A affected neither BP nor HR and SpNA at doses of 1 and 3mg/kg i.v. which induce a selective increase in renal blood flow. In contrast, a dose of 30mg/kg i.v., which produced systemic effects comparable to those of CGP 18137A, stimulated SpNA to the same extent as 18137A did. These results demonstrate that the rise in renal blood flow induced by low doses of CGP 22979A is not associated with an increase in efferent sympathetic nerve activity. They suggest also that selective renal vasodilatation can be accomplished without an activation of the sympathetic nervous system.
The veno-occlusive mechanism of the canine corpus cavernosum: angiographic and pharmacologic studies.	Studies were designed to document the normal angiography and pressure-volume characteristics of the canine corpus cavernosum, evaluate the effects of various vasoactive agents, and characterize a veno-occlusive mechanism. In fourteen dogs, baseline cavernosography demonstrated venous drainage via six to ten tributaries arising from the crura and entering the deep penile veins. Control cavernosometry during infusion of saline at 0.33 ml./sec. led to a rise in intracavernosal pressure (ICP) from 24.9 +/- 7.9 mm. Hg to 68.4 +/- 21.1 mm. Hg. Intracavernosal injection of a number of vasodilators, including papaverine, nitroglycerin, acetylcholine, and prostaglandin E2, raised baseline ICP significantly, caused extreme elevation of pressure during saline infusion (greater than 450 mm. Hg), and narrowed or obliterated the venous lumena at the site of tunica perforation, as judged angiographically. These effects could be reversed with phenoxybenzamine or norepinephrine. Our results further support the current understanding of the canine veno-occlusive mechanism.
Changes in vascular responsiveness to vasoactive agents in the hindlimb of DOCA-salt hypertensive rats.	The responsiveness to vasoactive agents in the perfused hindlimb of DOCA-salt hypertensive rats was examined and compared with that of normotensive rats. The vasoconstrictor responses in the femoral vascular bed to norepinephrine and serotonin were markedly potentiated in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats as compared with those in normotensive rats, and no change was found in the responses to angiotensin II. On the other hand, the vasodilatory response in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats to isoproterenol was attenuated without any marked changes in responsiveness to acetylcholine, nitroprusside and papaverine. These results suggested that the reduced vasodilator responses as well as the increased vasoconstrictor responses occur to some specific vasoactive agents in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats.
Bipyridine derivatives lower arteriolar resistance and improve left ventricular function in newborn lambs.	Milrinone may be used in the treatment of pulmonary hypertensive diseases of the newborn. We have studied its effects in chronically instrumented newborn lambs over a dose range from 1-100 micrograms/kg. These actions have been compared with those of amrinone. We have also tested the effect of milrinone on hypoxia and leukotriene D4-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction. Injected into the right pulmonary artery, both amrinone and milrinone cause a dose-related fall in pulmonary arteriolar resistance with milrinone being approximately 20 times more potent than amrinone and possessing an ED50 of about 10 micrograms/kg. Both agents increase left ventricular dp/dt significantly and tend to increase cardiac output. Systemic vascular resistance falls with both drugs but the change is significant only with milrinone. While milrinone attenuates the increase in pulmonary arteriolar resistance induced by leukotriene D4 and hypoxia, this is probably an indirect effect. Milrinone does not modify either the increases in left atrial, aortic pressure, and systemic vascular resistance or the decreases in cardiac output and left ventricular dp/dt induced by leukotriene D4. These findings suggest that milrinone deserves clinical trial in newborn infants with pulmonary hypertension in whom myocardial depression often coexists.
The differential effects of positive inotropic and vasodilator therapy on diastolic properties in patients with congestive cardiomyopathy.	Symptoms of congestive heart failure frequently reflect abnormalities in both systolic and diastolic performance. While much work has been reported regarding the mechanisms by which positive inotropic and vasodilator therapy affect systolic performance, little is known about their effect on diastolic function. In 12 patients with diffuse congestive cardiomyopathy micromanometer left ventricular and aortic pressure measurements were recorded simultaneously with two-dimensionally targeted M mode echocardiograms and thermodilution-determined cardiac output. Each patient received dopamine (2, 4, and 6 micrograms/kg/min), and dobutamine (2, 6, and 10 micrograms/kg/min), and 10 received nitroprusside (0.125 to 2.0 micrograms/kg/min). Baseline hemodynamics were characterized by low cardiac index (2.1 +/- 0.7 liter/min/m2, mean +/- SD), high left ventricular end-diastolic pressure (24 +/- 10 mm Hg), and increased end-diastolic (6.8 +/- 1.0 cm) and end-systolic dimensions (6.0 +/- 1.0 cm). All patients had abnormal left ventricular pressure decay with a prolonged time constant (67 +/- 20 msec) and reduced peak diastolic lengthening rates. Dopamine and dobutamine decreased the time constant of relaxation and increased the peak lengthening rate. Dobutamine also reduced the minimum diastolic pressure from 14 +/- 7 to 10 +/- 9 mm Hg (p less than .01); neither drug reduced end-diastolic pressure. In fact, dopamine elevated end-diastolic pressures in seven patients, despite more rapid pressure decay. Diastolic pressure-dimension relations after dopamine and dobutamine showed a leftward shift with a reduced end-systolic chamber size, but no significant changes in passive chamber stiffness. Nitroprusside decreased left ventricular minimum diastolic pressure by 4 +/- 2 mm Hg and end-diastolic pressure by 7 +/- 4 mm Hg (p less than .01). It did not consistently accelerate left ventricular pressure decay at the doses tested. The decreased end-diastolic pressure with nitroprusside was due to a reduced end-diastolic dimension in five patients. In the other patients, all of whom had elevated right atrial pressures, diastolic pressure-dimension relations showed a parallel downward shift after nitroprusside. Thus, positive inotropic therapy with beta 1-adrenoceptor agonists enhances early diastolic distensibility by accelerating relaxation, augmenting filling, and reducing end-systolic chamber size. Vasodilator therapy is much more effective in lowering diastolic pressures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Effect of foridon on 45Ca uptake in isolated blood vessels]	In the experiments on rabbit isolated aorta and portal vein phoridone, a vasodilating agent of dihydropyridine series, was shown to exert the blocking effect on the basal uptake of labeled calcium by cells. It was demonstrated in the experiments on rabbit aorta and bovine coronary artery that phoridone inhibits 45Ca uptake stimulated by potassium and noradrenaline. The inhibition of 45Ca uptake enhanced by potassium appeared to be definitely more pronounced in the experiments on coronary artery. The action of phoridone on 45Ca uptake by smooth muscle cells of the vessels did not differ significantly from that of phenyhidine.
Selectivity of cerebral vasodilators on basilar arteries.	Ca-antagonistic activities of cerebral vasodilators, nicardipine and 1-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-diphenylmethylpiperazinyl)ethanol dihydrochloride (NC-1100) were tested on basilar and renal arteries, thoracic aorta and portal vein of rabbit, and rat vas deferens. Both the cerebral vasodilators used herein had a selectivity to basilar arteries. The selectivity to the basilar arteries is considered to be one of the factors in deciding the pharmacological property of the cerebral vasodilators.
Cardiovascular effects of budralazine in the dog.	Cardiovascular effects of budralazine were investigated in isolated and cross-circulated dog atrial preparations. When budralazine was injected into the jugular vein of the donor dog, a hypotension was produced with slight tachycardia in a dose-related manner. At the same time, slight positive chronotropic and biphasic inotropic effects were induced in the isolated atrium perfused with donor's arterial blood. When budralazine was injected into the cannulated sinus node artery of the isolated atrial preparation, it produced only slight negative chronotropic and inotropic responses, occasionally followed by positive responses. Vehicle injections induced monophasic negative chronotropic and inotropic effects. It is concluded that budralazine has a potent vasodilator action, a reflex-induced sympathomimetic action, but no direct cardiac stimulating properties. Moreover, a direct catecholamine releasing action of budralazine does not appear to be prominent.
A comparison of the cardiovascular actions of AQ 110 with those of isoprenaline and salbutamol.	1. AQ 110 is a beta-adrenoceptor agonist which, like isoprenaline and salbutamol, acts directly on the receptors.2. Compared with isoprenaline, AQ 110 has relatively stronger actions on bronchial and vascular smooth muscle (beta(2)-adrenoceptors) than stimulant effects on heart muscle (beta(1)-adrenoceptors). The beta(2)-selectivity of AQ 110 is, however, much less than that of salbutamol, mainly due to the weak cardiac actions of the latter.3. At doses which were equipotent in decreasing the bronchoconstrictor effect produced by a standard dose of 5-hydroxytryptamine, AQ 110 had marginally less hypotensive action than salbutamol and considerably less than isoprenaline.4. Although AQ 110, unlike salbutamol, possesses a catechol group it was found not to be a substrate for catechol-O-methyl transferase and this is considered to account for its significantly prolonged action, compared with isoprenaline, in vivo.
Combined therapy with glycosides and Ca++-antagonistic agents (author's transl)]	Ca-antagonistic drugs increase cardiac oxygen supply by a coronary vasodilator action whilst they simultaneously lower myocardial oxygen demand. The latter drug effect is due to a decrease in cardiac contractile energy expenditure both directly (restriction of myocardial contractility) and indirectly (reduction of arterial blood pressure resulting from systemic vasodilation). In coronary disease all these factors can contribute to an improvement of the disturbed myocardial energy balance. As to the coronary vasodilator action of Ca-antagonistic drugs in particular, it is important to note that they readily relax the smooth musculature of the major extramural stem arteries where most of the occlusive atherosclerotic intima processes (about 95%) are located. In contrast, other coronary vasodilators such as adenosine, dipyridamole, chromonar, lidoflazine, theophylline, which lack Ca-antagonistic properties, are primarily acting on the small intramural resistance vessels of the heart whereas vascular smooth musculature originating from the major extramural arteries is less affected. Therefore, in elderly atherosclerotic patients the possible risk of glycoside-induced vasoconstriction in extramural coronary stem arteries (and also in arteries of systemic circulation) can be sufficiently eliminated only with the help of Ca-antagonists.
Pharmacological findings on cetiedil.	The molecule of cetiedil (Stratne) has strong papaverine-like and weak atropine-like properties. It brings about peripheral vasodilation at doses which do not affect arterial blood pressure, heart beat and cardiac efficacy; this new drug increases the activity of beta-adrenergic stimulants. There may be different hypotheses to explain the therapeutic effect of cetiedil; beside its papaverinic and synergistic beta-stimulant properties, it increases the haemodynamic coefficient, plays a role in the process of membrane Ca++ exchange and inhibits phosphodiesterase and platelet aggregation.
An in vitro technique for testing nasal vasodilating agents.	An in vitro method for testing vasoactive drugs on nasal blood vessels is described. Isolated dog nasal mucosa contracts when treated with nasal decongestant or stimulated electrically. Vasodilating drugs inhibit this contraction. Atropine blocks the effects of acetylcholine on this tissue.
An assessment of beta-adrenoceptor blockade in man by prizidilol hydrochloride.	1 Prizidilol hydrochloride (SK&F 92657) is a new compound which causes both arteriolar dilatation and beta-adrenoceptor blockade. The effect of a single oral dose on the responses of heart rate and blood pressure to isoprenaline infusion has been studied in healthy volunteers. 2 Isoprenaline heart rate dose-response curves showed parallel shifts to the right after oral prizidilol, indicating antagonism by this compound at beta-adrenoceptors in the heart. 3 Isoprenaline dose-response curves for decreases in diastolic blood pressure also showed shifts to the right after oral prizidilol, providing evidence of beta-adrenoceptor antagonism by this drug in peripheral resistance vessels. 4 The peak effect of a 40 mg dose of propranolol was greater than that of a 200 mg dose of prizidilol but both drugs caused persistent beta-adrenoceptor blockade for at least 7 h after ingestion.
Effects of alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade on coronary circulation in conscious dogs.	The effects of three alpha-adrenergic-receptor blocking agents (phentolamine, prazosin, and trimazosin) were compared on the coronary circulation and left ventricular (LV) function in chronically instrumented conscious dogs. The three alpha-adrenergic-receptor blocking agents were administered in equidepressor doses (mean arterial pressure fell by approximately 20%) and in the presence of beta-adrenergic-receptor blockade and constant heart rate. LV systolic pressure, LV end-diastolic pressure, and LV end-diastolic diameter also fell similarly with the three drugs. Phentolamine decreased the time rate of change of LV pressure (LV dP/dt) by 21 +/- 3%, whereas trimazosin and prazosin decreased LV dP/dt only by 14 +/- 2 and 11 +/- 2%, respectively. LV velocity was not changed with trimazosin and prazosin but decreased with phentolamine by 12 +/- 4%. The three drugs exerted differential effects on the coronary circulation. Only trimazosin increased coronary blood flow (18 +/- 5%). Trimazosin decreased late diastolic coronary resistance (LDCR) by 35 +/- 2%, which was significantly more than reductions in LDCR induced by prazosin (22 +/- 2%) and by phentolamine (11 +/- 3%). A test dose of phenylephrine (5.0 micrograms/kg) increased mean arterial pressure by 53 +/- 3.5 mmHg. After trimazosin, prazosin, and phentolamine, the same dose of phenylephrine increased mean arterial pressure by 24 +/- 2.1, 14 +/- 1.6, and 1.9 +/- 0.6 mmHg, respectively. The response after phentolamine was significantly less than with trimazosin (P less than 0.01) and prazosin (P less than 0.02). Thus the capacity of these three alpha-adrenergic-receptor blocking drugs to dilate coronary vessels is inversely proportional to their capability to block exogenous alpha-adrenergic-receptor agonists.
Cardiovascular effects of a new coronary vasodilator N-(2-hydroxyethyl)nicotinamide nitrate (SG-75): comparison with nitroglycerin and diltiazem.	The cardiovascular effects of a newly developed nicotinamide derivative, N-(2-hydroxyethyl)nicotinamide nitrate (SG-75), were examined in anesthetized, open-chest or closed-chest dogs and compared with those of nitroglycerin and diltiazem. When administered intra-arterially, SG-75 (0.003-1 mg) increased coronary, renal, mesenteric, and femoral blood flows in a dose-dependent fashion, without affecting systemic blood pressure or cardiac function. The coronary vasodilator response to SG-75 was not influenced by intra-arterial administration of propranolol, atropine, diphenhydramine, or dipyridamole. SG-75 (0.03-1 mg/kg) administered intravenously decreased systemic blood pressure and peripheral (coronary, renal, mesenteric, and femoral) vascular resistance and increased peripheral blood flow in a dose-dependent manner. In doses of 0.03-0.3 mg/kg, this drug did not significantly affect pulse pressure, heart rate, right atrial pressure, aortic blood flow, left ventricular (LV) pressure, LV dP/dt, or myocardial oxygen consumption. The results indicate the SG-75 has desirable characteristics as an antianginal agent.
Systemic and renal hemodynamic effects of trimazosin: a new vasodilator.	Trimazosin was administered for 2 days in doses-ranging from 50 to 200 mg to 16 patients with essential hypertension. The patients were randomized on the third day and received either the active drug in a single dose of 300 mg or a placebo. Systemic hemodynamic studies in both the supine and 50 degrees upright tilt position, including the Valsalva maneuver and a 1 min sustained handgrip test at 30% maximal voluntary contraction, were performed during control and 0, 1, 2, and 3 hr after drug administration. Renal function studies including plasma renin activity (PRA) were performed during control period and 3 hr after drug administration. Trimazosin reduced arterial pressure and peripheral vascular and renal vascular resistances, increased heart rate, cardiac output, and renal blood flow, and had no effect on glomerular filtration rate or PRA. Placebo had no effect on any of the above-mentioned parameters. The increase in renal blood flow was independent of cardiac output. We conclude that trimazosin lowers arterial pressure through a direct arteriolar dilation and reduction in peripheral vascular resistance. Its direct renal effects would make it a useful agent in the treatment of hypertension associated with renal function impairment.
Cutaneous microcirculatory effects of various vasodilator agents on the conscious rabbit, with special regard to changes in the rhythmic property of vasomotion.	Microcirculatory effects of intravenous administrations in the appropriate doses of phenoxybenzamine (POBA), phentolamine (PTA), nicotinic acid (NAc), trimetazidine (TMZ), dilazep (DZ), cepharanthine (CT), alpha-tocopheryl acetate (TP-A), and alpha-tocopheryl nicotinate (TP-N) as vasodilator agents were investigated in the subcutaneous tissue within a transparent ear chamber of the normal conscious rabbit. The intra-vital microscopic findings obtained following administration of the drugs were as follows: POBA, a marked and long-lasting vasodilatation without vasomotion (more than 1 hour); PTA, a quite brief vasodilatation followed by a marked and long-lasting vasoconstriction without vasomotion (more than 1 hour); NAc, a short-lasting vasodilatation with slightly blunted vasomotion (less than 10 minutes); TMZ, DZ, CT, TP-A, and TP-N, a similar notable and transient vasodilatation with vasomotion (about 1 hour or more). Some physiological implications on the microcirculatory changes induced by administrations of the drugs were discussed especially in relation to the significance of sustaining the rhythmic fluctuations of blood flow due to vasomotion.
Effect of vasoactive agents on prostanoids in suction blister fluid.	Iontophoresis of histamine in the skin has been shown to release prostaglandins and arachidonic acid in suction blister fluid. Application of DMSO had a similar effect. No effect was found after using the following erythema and oedema irritants: scraping, vibration and ketocaine. Treatment with vasoconstricting drugs such as noradrenaline betamethasone and lidocaine-prilocaine mixture did not influence the prostaglandin or arachidonic acid levels.
The effects of dilazep and SG 75 on cyclic nucleotides in the coronary artery.	We examined the effects of new long acting coronary vasodilators (dilazep and SG 75) on cyclic nucleotides in the coronary artery and the myocardium at the maximum coronary blood flow. The cyclic AMP concentrations in the anterior descending coronary artery after the injection of saline (control), SG 75 (0.2 mg/Kg), and dilazep (0.1 mg/Kg) were 229 +/- 20 pmole/Gm, 249 +/- 21 pmole/Gm, and 320 +/- 21 pmol/Gm, respectively. A significant increase above control values was found in the dilazep treated group (p less than 0.02). The cyclic GMP concentrations in the coronary artery after the injection of saline, SG 75, and dilazep were 35.6 +/- 4.4 pmole/Gm, 40.4 +/- 3.3 pmole/Gm, 35.3 +/- 3.2 pmole/Gm, respectively. There were no significant differences between them. The cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP concentrations in the left ventricular muscle did not significantly increase after the administration of dilazep and SG 75. Our findings showed that the mechanism of coronary vasodilating action of dilazep might be associated with an increased cyclic AMP in the coronary artery.
The effect of various stimuli and calcium antagonists on the fluorescence response of chlorotetracycline-loaded human neutrophils.	Chlorotetracycline has been used in neutrophils and other cells as probe of the state of membrane-bound calcium. We report here that human neutrophils treated with chlorotetracycline response to soluble secretagogues by a prompt decrease in chlorotetracycline fluorescence. This response was observed within 2-5 s, making it one of the most immediate reactions in neutrophils to stimulation, and was obtained with three secretagogues studied: a chemotactic peptide N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine, a tumor promotor (phorbol myristate acetate) and a lectin (concanavalin A). The responses of neutrophils to the three stimuli differed both quantitatively and qualitatively. The calcium EGTA, did not effect the onset of the decrease in chlorotetracycline fluorescence, suggesting that the probe was measuring changes in intracellular calcium pools. The intracellular calcium antagonists, TMb-8, W-7 and trifluoperazine, did not block, but actually augmented, the fluorescence response. All four of these calcium antagonists blocked the recovery of chlorotetracycline fluorescence which was usually observed several minutes after stimulation with N-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine. This suggests that recovery was dependent upon both extracellular calcium and active calmodulin. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that changes in chlorotetracycline fluorescence reflect changes in a pool of membrane-bound 'trigger calcium', the release of which is an essential first step in stimulus-response coupling in human neutrophils.
Respiratory distress syndrome--new therapeutic approaches to a complex pathophysiology.	In this review I have emphasized the complicated events that occur during the course of RDS. RDS is initiated by an inadequate pool size of functional surfactant within a structurally and functionally immature lung. Obstetric and delivery room management apparently can significantly influence surfactant function and, therefore, the incidence of RDS, possibly by affecting the permeability properties of the pulmonary vascular endothelium and alveolar epithelium. The course and severity of RDS will be further influenced by neonatal care and other occurrences such as the presence or absence of a PDA. Many details of the biochemical and physiologic events that result in RDS have not been defined, so we are currently unable to quantitatively understand how all the various factors interact during the course of RDS to give the characteristic clinical course of the disease. Variations in the magnitude and timing of these interactions will likely explain the variable manifestations of respiratory failure in the tiny infant. Within the context of the pathophysiology of RDS, surfactant replacement therapy and HFV represent two new and very different approaches to treatment. Initial clinical trials of surfactant replacement therapy in infants with RDS are encouraging, and experience with animal models indicates that such an approach will work. Replacement therapy also makes sense if one considers what is known about surfactant metabolism during RDS. However, no standard, tested, and safe preparation of surfactant is available. If past experience is any guide, it may not be easy to develop an acceptable product for general use. HFV offers an opportunity to ventilate infants with relatively high mean airway pressures but without the use of high peak airway pressures. Early clinical trials suggest the technique will benefit some infants, however no ventilators for HFV are available for clinical use. In light of the low mortality from respiratory failure in RDS and a morbidity from RDS resulting mostly from the other diseases of prematurity, these new therapeutic approaches need to be thoroughly tested and understood before general clinical use.
Interactions between prazosin, clonidine and direct vasodilators in the anaesthetized rat.	1. Prazosin, clonidine, hydrallazine and diazoxide were administered intravenously, alone or in various combinations, to anaesthetized rats. 2. Prazosin and clonidine were equipotent. Their combined hypotensive effects in no instance exceeded the maximum effect attainable with either agent alone. The hypotensive effects of hydrallazine or diazoxide were, in contrast, additive to those of either prazosin or clonidine. 3. Pressor responses to clonidine were antagonized by prazosin. Prazosin may prove useful in hypertensive crises provoked by clonidine.
Vasoactive drugs and oxygen content in the perilymph (author's transl)]	The effect of different vasodilating drugs on the perilymphatic oxygen content in the cat has been examined by means of the polarographic method. The drugs used such as Papaverin, Rheomacrodex, Ronicol, Praxilen and Lasix have had no significant effect on the oxygen concentration in the perilymph. Histamin, 7% Na2CO3 and 50% glycerol have produced a diminution of the perilymphatic oxygen tension. Only angiotensin has produced a 20% rise of the oxygen pressure in the perilymph. This effect is, however, five times smaller than that reached by inhalation of 5% CO2 and 95% O2.
Interaction of hydralazine and hydrazone derivatives with contractile mechanisms in rabbit aortic smooth muscle.	The mechanism of action and relative potency of hydralazine (H) and tow hydrazone derivatives were investigated using isolated rabbit aortic strips. H, hydralazine acetone hydrazone (HA) and hydralazine butanone hydrazone (HBH) relaxed established K+ and norepinephrine (NE) contractures, and inhibited the development of contractures to these two agents on preincubation. H, HA and HBH increased the threshold to Ca++ and decreased the maximum tension responses during K+-Ca++-contractures (HA greater than H, P less than .05; HBH greater than H P less than .01). The Ca++-dependent and Ca++-independent components of NE contractures were both inhibited by H, HA and HBH. NE contractures were more sensitive to the effects of H than K+ contractures. These results are consistent with the conclusion that H and hydrazone derivatives produce effects on vascular muscle both by interactions with the fluxes of Ca++ from the extracellular space and effects on release from cell stores. However, other possibilities need to be assessed experimentally.
Comparison of the effect of ildamen and nonachlazin on the blood supply and activities of the heart]	Instravenous infusion of ildamen (0.8-1 mg/kg) into anesthesized cats caused an increase in coronary blood flow and oxygen consumption by the heart to an approximately equal degree; the resistance of the coronary vessels diminished. The values of cardiac activity (cardiac output, contractions, pulse rate) increased simultaneously with increase of the coronary blood flow. In distinction to ildamen, nonachlasin (6 mg/kg) reduced the arterio-venous difference in oxygen and increased the content of oxyhemoglobin in the draining coronary blood. In anesthesized animals cardiac activity altered in two stages. Since beta-adrenergic blocking agents prevented the increase in coronary blood flow and the intensification of cardiac contractions induced by both drugs it is assumed that their effect is caused through  stimulation of the beta-adrenergic structures. Besides, ildamen and nonachlasin possess the property of inhibiting cardiac activity. The combination of these two opposite effects evidently plays an important role in the realization of the antianginal effect of the substances studied.
Effect of hypertonic dialysate and vasodilators on peritoneal dialysis clearances in the rat.	A model for performing peritoneal dialysis in the rat was established which permitted the consistent measurement of dialysis clearances. The effects on urea and inulin clearances of interperitoneal vasodilators and 4.25% dextrose were compared. Isoproterenol, nitroprusside, histamine, and bradykinin, when added to 1.5% dextrose dialysate for three consecutive exchanges, all produced approximately a 20% increase in urea and inulin dialysis clearances. These increases in clearances persisted in the three subsequent exchanges when no drugs were added to the dialysate. The addition of isoproterenol, nitroprusside, or histamine to six consecutive exchanges did not produce a further increment in clearances. The use of 4.25% dextrose dialysate for three exchanges produced approximately a 50% increase in urea and inulin clearances. Clearances remained about 35% greater than control values in the subsequent three 1.5% dextrose exchanges.
Transmural gradient of coronary blood flow following dihydropyridine calcium antagonists and other vasodilator drugs.	The effects of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, nifedipine, nitrendipine and FR 7534 on the transmural distribution of coronary blood flow (endo/epi) were compared to the structurally unrelated calcium antagonists, verapamil and diltiazem and to the non-calcium antagonist vasodilator drugs, chromonar and dipyridamole in anesthetized dogs. The increase in transmural blood flow produced by diltiazem, verapamil, chromonar and dipyridamole was equally distributed between subendocardium and subepicardium (no change in endo/epi). On the other hand, the increase in myocardial blood flow produced by the dihydropyridine calcium antagonists nifedipine, nitrendipine and FR 7534 was relatively selective for subepicardial regions resulting in a significant and dose-related decrease in endo/epi. This unusual effect of the dihydropyridine calcium antagonists to produce a redistribution of flow within normal myocardium was not shared by the non-dihydropyridine calcium antagonists or non-calcium antagonist vasodilators studied. The redistribution of flow was not related to changes in heart rate, aortic blood pressure or to the level of total coronary blood flow. Such an effect may be related to the distribution of dihydropyridine receptors across the left ventricular wall, antagonism of the action of adenosine, or changes in regional intramyocardial tissue pressure and extravascular resistance.
Cyanide prevents the inhibition of platelet aggregation by nitroprusside, hydroxylamine and azide.	Sodium cyanide (CN-) in concentrations of 10 uM or more prevented the inhibition of epinephrine (2.5 uM) and of ADP (4.0 uM) induced primary and secondary aggregation brought about by 10 uM sodium nitroprusside (SNP). Cyanide alone in the same concentration had no effect on platelet aggregation induced by epinephrine or ADP. Even when the addition of CN- was delayed for as long as 9 min after epinephrine and SNP, it immediately reversed the SNP block and initiated a bimodal wave of aggregation. The effect of CN- on SNP inhibition of platelet aggregation appears to be competitive and reversible. Although they are less potent inhibitors of platelet aggregation than SNP, the effects of hydroxylamine (HA) and azide were also prevented by SNP. In our hands, sodium nitrite did not inhibit platelet aggregation consistently. The inhibitory effects of glyceryl trinitrate, papaverine and nitric oxide hemoglobin on platelet aggregation were not prevented by CN-. These interactions probably have no significance in vivo, but they indicate that SNP, HA and azide act on platelets and on vascular smooth muscle by similar or identical biochemical mechanisms. They also suggest that there are at least two sub-classes of so-called nitric oxide vasodilators. The effect of CN- may be mediated through an inhibition of the formation of nitric oxide from SNP, HA and azide.
Importance of venodilation during long-term vasodilator therapy of chronic left ventricular failure.	Vasodilators with different sites of action are used for long-term therapy of congestive heart failure, and selection of agents based on acute hemodynamic effects has been recommended. We compared the acute hemodynamic effects (by Swan-Ganz catheterization) and long-term responses (maximal oxygen uptake during exercise) associated with isosorbide dinitrate, a predominant venodilator, captopril, an arterial and venous dilator, and minoxidil, an arterial dilator, in 22 patients with congestive heart failure. In eight patients isosorbide dinitrate reduced pulmonary wedge pressure by 29% +/- 8% acutely (p less than .001) without significantly changing cardiac index or systemic vascular resistance. In eight patients captopril acutely reduced pulmonary wedge pressure by 42% +/- 22% (p less than .001) and systemic vascular resistance by 27% +/- 12% (p less than .01), while raising cardiac index by 19% +/- 18% (p less than .02). In six patients minoxidil raised cardiac index acutely by 38% +/- 30% (p less than .05) and reduced systemic vascular resistance by 35% +/- 12% (p less than .05) without changing pulmonary wedge pressure. After 2-5 months vasodilator administration maximal exercise oxygen uptake was increased by 7 +/- 3 ml/min/kg on isosorbide dinitrate (p less than .01), by 3 +/- 2 ml/min/kg on captopril (p less than .01), and by only 1 +/- 2 ml/min/kg on minoxidil (ns). Thus exercise capacity improved only during administration of drugs with venodilating action, failing to change during treatment with the arterial dilator despite a reduction in systemic vascular resistance. Predominantly arterial dilators alone may not be suitable for long-term vasodilator therapy for heart failure, and the regimens used should include venodilating agents.
Coronary vasodilation by nitrates is not mediated by the prostaglandin system: an angiographic and hemodynamic study.	The possible role of prostaglandins in mediating coronary vasodilation by nitrates was investigated in 13 patients. In nine patients (Group 1), the effects of ISDN on coronary-artery diameter and (in four of the nine) coronary sinus flow before and after administration of ASA were compared. In four additional patients (Group 2) the first ISDN administration was omitted in order to investigate the effect of ASA on resting coronary artery tone. Dosages used were 3 mg intracoronary ISDN and 1.0 g intravenous and 100 mg intracoronary ASA. Coronary artery diameter was analyzed by means of quantitative magnification coronary angiography. Coronary sinus flow was investigated by means of coronary sinus thermodilution. ASA was not able to induce significant changes in coronary artery diameter when injected before administration of ISDN or to prevent ISDN-induced vasodilation. At the coronary resistance level, ASA was not able to prevent the relative vasodilation induced by ISDN. It is concluded that coronary vasodilation by nitrates is not mediated by the prostaglandin system.
Effects of buflomedil on isolated dog arteries.	Buflomedil (10(-6) to 10(-4) M) relaxed, in a concentration-dependent manner, helical strips of dog mesenteric, renal and femoral arteries, partially contracted due to previous exposure to noradrenaline. When partial contraction was caused by prostaglandin F2 alpha, Buflomedil produced a slight relaxation of the mesenteric and coronary arterial strips, had no effect in cerebral and femoral arteries and caused a small contraction of renal arterial strips. Buflomedil did not reduce contractions induced by submaximal concentrations of K+ in normal media and those induced by Ca++ in mesenteric arteries exposed to Ca++-free media and depolarized by excess K+. Contractile responses to transmural electrical stimulation and exogenous noradrenaline were attenuated by buflomedil; the attenuations in femoral and mesenteric arteries did not differ. Protection against persistent blockade of alpha-adrenoceptors by phenoxybenzamine was obtained by pretreatment of mesenteric arteries with buflomedil. Relaxant responses of cerebral and coronary arteries to nicotine were suppressed or abolished by buflomedil, whereas the relaxation of coronary arteries induced by tyramine was unaffected or reduced only slightly. It is concluded that buflomedil reversibly blocks alpha-adrenoceptors in arterial smooth muscle and possesses an anti-nicotinic action. As far as the concentrations used in the present study are concerned, buflomedil does not appear to interfere with the transmembrane influx of Ca++.
Facts and fallacies about measuring blood pressure in rats.	Although blood pressure can easily be measured in anesthetized rats by simply connecting a catheter to a pressure transducer, repeated measurements taken over long periods of time in awake rats are much more difficult to make. For chronic experiments two methods are now commonly used: direct recording from chronically-implanted arterial catheters, or indirect measurement with the tail-cuff method. Direct recording of intraarterial pressure can be done continuously and is more accurate, but technically more demanding. On the other hand, although tail-cuff measurements are less accurate, they do not require surgery and can be repeated almost indefinitely. With most tail-cuff methods the rats are preheated to dilate the tail vessels and thereby facilitate pulse detection, but with the new IITC photoelectric sensor indirect measurements of systolic as well as of mean arterial pressure can be made without external preheating. Even with a properly validated tail-cuff method, however, errors can still occur particularly when it is used to quantify modest blood pressure changes like those during development of hypertension, or following administration of vasoactive drugs. To safeguard against such errors, each laboratory should always validate its own tail-cuff method under uniform experimental conditions similar to those existing when the method is actually used. Additionally, all blood pressure differences thereby detected should be verified by direct measurement of intraarterial pressure in the same rats.
Effects of coronary dilators on segmental forces in normal and ischemic regions of the canine left ventricular wall.	Changes in segmental forces of contraction (determined by a strain gauge arch) in non-ischemic (normal) and ischemic regions of the same left ventricular wall were studied in dogs anesthetized with morphine and pentobarbital. A branch of the left anterior descending coronary artery was completely occluded, and 10 min after occlusion coronary dilators were injected intravenously. The results can be summarized as follows. 1) Coronary occlusion markedly reduced the segmental force of contraction in the ischemic region, while it did not affect that in the normal region. Heart rate did not change markedly after coronary occlusion. 2) Either nitroglycerin (100 microgram/kg) or sodium nitrite (2.5 mg/kg) increased heart rate, and it also increased segmental force of contraction in the normal region while it decreased that in the ischemic region. 3) Papaverine (1 mg/kg) increased heart rate and segmental forces of contraction in both normal and ischemic regions. 4) Dipyridamole (250 microgram/kg) slightly increased heart rate, and it also increased segmental force of contraction in the normal region but not in the ischemic region.
Inotropic and chronotropic effects of vasodilators.	Although vasodilators are used with increasing frequency for the treatment of heart failure and myocardial ischemia, their direct effects on cardiac muscle have not been completely characterized. To delineate the action of vasodilators on mammalian myocardium, the chronotropic and inotropic effects of vasodilators on isolated guinea-pig atria (n = 163) have been determined. The spontaneous frequency and the peak rate of isometric force development at a fixed frequency of 200/min were used as indexes of chronotropy and inotropy. The potency series for negative chronotropy was diltiazem greater than D600 greater than verapamil greater than lidoflazine greater than bepridil greater than prenylamine greater than perhexiline greater than nifedipine. The potency series for negative inotropy differed substantially, exhibiting the sequence nifedipine greater than D600 greater than verapamil greater than bepridil greater than lidoflazine greater than prenylamine greater than perhexiline greater than diltiazem. Therefore, nifedipine acted as an "inoselective" and diltiazem as a "chrono-selective" depressant. Other vasodilators, including papaverine, nitroglycerin, nitroprusside, adenosine, dipyridamole, diazoxide and hydralazine exerted no or negligible negative chronotropic or inotropic effects even at high concentration (10(-5) M). Therefore, only vasodilators classified among the calcium antagonists proved to have appreciable direct myocardial effects. This supports the view that these drugs constitute a category of agents distinct from classical vasodilators.
Clonidine hydrochloride.	Clonidine hydrochloride (Catapres), a potent antihypertensive agent, has been in clinical use since 1974 in the United States. Clonidine, an alpha-adrenergic receptor agonist, stimulates central alpha receptors in the depressor site of the vasomotor center of the medulla oblongata and hypothalamus, which diminishes efferent sympathetic tone to the heart, kidneys, and peripheral vasculature with a concomitant increase in vagal activity. Hemodynamic and renal effects include reduction in supine and erect blood pressure, heart rate, total peripheral resistance, plasma renin activity, and urinary aldosterone and catecholamine excretion, with little effect on resting cardiac output, response to exercise, and preservation of renal function. Clonidine alone produces a significant reduction in mean arterial pressure in all degrees of hypertension during acute and chronic administration, with little or no tendency toward tolerance or postural hypotension. Its antihypertensive potency is enhanced with the concomitant use of a diuretic or vasodilator, and it may be used in place of a beta blocker with equal efficacy in the diuretic plus vasodilator combination. Serious adverse effects are uncommon, with more than 93% of patients tolerating the drug well. Sedation and dry mouth, the most common adverse effects, are usually related to dose and duration and are minimized by gradually increasing the dose and by taking the major portion of the twice-daily schedule at bedtime. Clonidine may be safely given to patients with congestive heart failure, ischemic heart disease, obstructive lung disease, chronic renal insufficiency, and diabetes mellitus. Clonidine is one of the most versatile and effective agents presently available for the treatment of hypertension.
A model of the mesenteric circulation.	A model of the mesenteric microcirculation is proposed that explains three observed variations in the hyperemic response of the small intestine to different dilator stimuli. The model assumes a two-component circulation in which one component delivers more than enough blood flow and oxygen to meet the metabolic demands of the resting tissue served by this "flow-independent component." The second portion, known as the "flow-limited component" delivers an insufficient blood supply for tissue needs and, therefore, restricts the metabolism of the parenchyma it serves. The three types of reported hyperemic responses are a) hyperemia induced by certain drugs, such as nifedipine and acetylcholine, in which case only the flow-limited component is dilated and one observes an increase in blood flow to the gut without any increase in intestinal oxygen consumption; b) hyperemia induced by stimulating active cotransport of nutrients from the intestinal lumen, in which case the tissue served by the flow-independent component increases its metabolism and oxygen demand, resulting in an increase in oxygen consumption that exceeds proportionately the increase in blood flow; and c) hyperemia induced by other vasodilator drugs, such as adenosine, in which case both vascular components are dilated and both blood flow and oxygen uptake are increased, but the increase in blood flow is proportionately greater than the increase in oxygen consumption.
Vasoactive agents and splanchnic oxygen uptake.	Many vasoactive agents are known to alter oxygen uptake by splanchnic organs. Data from the literature indicate that, in general, vasodilators increase, whereas vasoconstrictors decrease oxygen uptake. We compare and contrast the effects of vasoactive agents on oxygen  uptake observed in vivo, under constant-flow and free-flow conditions, to those observed in vitro. The discrepancies between the in vivo and in vitro data are discussed relative to the effects of vasoactive agents on blood flow, intraorgan blood flow distribution, the countercurrent exchange of oxygen, capillary exchange capacity, and oxidative metabolism. Changes in blood flow, oxidative metabolism, and capillary density appear to be the major mechanisms by which vasoactive agents alter splanchnic oxygen uptake in vivo. Experimental designs are proposed that may help minimize inconsistencies in the data in future studies.
Parasympathomimetic influence of carbachol on local cerebral blood flow in the rabbit by a direct vasodilator action and an inhibition of the sympathetic-mediated vasoconstriction.	1 Two sorts of effect of carbachol on local cerebral blood flow (caudate nucleus) have been studied: (a) a direct action on the arterial smooth muscle; (b) an interaction with the adrenergic (sympathetic) constrictor system which innervates the vascular system of this nucleus. 2 Continuous measurements of the following variables were performed in lightly anaesthetized rabbits: local blood flow (caudate nucleus), arterial blood pressure, PaO2, PaCO2. 3 After blockade of the nicotinic synapses in the superior cervical sympathetic ganglion by local hexamethonium injection, carbachol was infused into the common carotid artery, thus minimizing systemic effects of this drug. Infusions of 0.6, 1.3 and 2.5 micrograms kg-1 min-1 induced mean increases in caudate blood flow of about 8, 17 and 37% respectively, without notable modifications of other variables measured. 4 The dilator effect of 2.5 micrograms kg-1 min-1 carbachol was reduced to a mean of 12% after intravenous injection of 0.5 mg/kg atropine, and could be totally abolished by higher doses (1 to 1.5 mg/kg). 5 Administration of 2.5 micrograms kg-1 min-1 of carbachol diminished by more than 50% the reduction in caudate blood flow induced by postganglionic stimulation of the cervical sympathetic chain, but did not affect the reduction of flow obtained by intravenous infusion of noradrenaline (2.5 to 5.0 micrograms kg-1 min-1). This inhibition of the adrenergic (sympathetic) system by carbachol was not modified by high doses of atropine (1 mg/kg i.v.). 6 We conclude that: (a) the local cerebral blood flow of a deep structure can be significantly modified by activation of vascular muscarinic receptors; (b) activation of non-muscarinic prejunctional cholinoceptors can cause inhibition of the sympathetic fibres innervating the vascular bed of the same structure.
Effect of a specific and a nonspecific vasodilator on regional blood flows in experimental heart failure.	Urotensin I, a vasoactive peptide isolated from fish urophyses, has previously been demonstrated to cause specific mesenteric dilation in the dog. This mechanism of action should limit its maximal cardiovascular actions: no additional cardiovascular effects should ensure once maximal mesenteric vasodilation is achieved. Provided that the mesenteric vasodilatation does not result in decreased flow to other organs, the agent may, therefore, offer a theoretical advantage as an afterload reducing agent. In pentobarbital anesthetized dogs which were in heart failure as a result of chronic aortico -- left atrial shunt, the effects of urotensin I on cardiovascular hemodynamics were compared with the effects of a nonspecific vasodilator, sodium nitroprusside. At equidepressor doses (approximately 15% decrease in mean arterial pressure; sodium nitroprusside, 2 micrograms . kg-1 . min-1 i.v.; urotensin I, 10 mU . kg-1 . min-1 i.v.), both agents produced comparable falls in total peripheral resistance, left ventricular end diastolic pressure, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. Forward cardiac output was increased by both substances, although the increases were not statistically significant. Shunt flow, estimated by echocardiography, was reduced by both. In spite of the marked similarity in hemodynamic effects in this model, the two agents affected regional blood flows differently. Sodium nitroprusside did not significantly alter regional flows measured by radioactive microspheres, although calculated splanchnic, skin, and myocardial vascular resistances were reduced. In contrast, urotensin I, as in the normal dog, greatly increased mesenteric blood flow; this redistribution of cardiac output did not, however, result in underperfusion of other vital organs. These data suggest that urotensin I may be a useful agent in the reduction of afterload in heart failure, particularly since the unique mechanism of action appears to minimize the potential for adverse effects due to excessive dosage.
Renovascular hypertension in the patient with severe atherosclerosis.	From 1976 to 1981, 22 patients were treated for atherosclerotic renovascular disease and with widespread atherosclerosis. The average age was 56 years. Preoperatively, the average blood pressure (BP) was 211/123 mm Hg. The standard operation was aortorenal bypass, associated with resection of an abdominal aortic aneurysm in three cases. Four patients had nephrectomy. Most patients were referred after failure of a previous renal revascularization procedure. In three patients, most of the renal arterial system was thrombotic. All patients had preoperative Swan-Ganz catheter placement for monitoring of fluid balance, filling pressure, and cardiac output. Intravenous vasodilators were used to control BP and to reduce the afterload on the left ventricle. There were no operative deaths. The average postoperative BP was 136/81 mm Hg. Three patients had improvement in renal function, and one was able to stop hemodialysis after operation. Because of a low mortality and overall satisfactory results, patients with atherosclerotic renovascular hypertension should be considered for vascular reconstruction.
Influence of vasodilator therapy on prognosis of acute myocardial infarction in the aged patients. A comparative study between vasodilator-treated group and group treated without vasodilator.	Influence of vasodilator therapy on prognosis of acute myocardial infarction complicated by left heart failure (in Killip classes II and III) was studied in 22 aged patients (mean age; 75.7 years). The patients were retrospectively divided into 2 groups: Group I; 12 patients were treated with isosorbide dinitrate and/or chlorpromazine and Group II; 10 patients were treated with other conventional medical measures. Initial hemodynamic changes on admission were not significantly different between 2 groups. With these treatments mortality rate within 2 weeks of treatment was lower in Group I than in Group II (p less than 0.01), however, cumulative cardiac mortality rate within 18 months did not differ significantly. The present study demonstrated beneficial influence of vasodilator therapy on early prognosis in aged patients, but failed to show prolonged influence on later mortality.
Pinacidil relaxes porcine and human coronary arteries by activating ATP-dependent potassium channels in smooth muscle cells.	We investigated the effect of the potassium channel opener pinacidil on ATP-dependent K+ channels (KATP) in the relaxation of porcine and human coronary arteries by means of isometric contraction experiments in arterial rings. We also measured whole cell currents in freshly isolated porcine and human coronary artery vascular smooth muscle cells with patch clamp. We first characterized serotonin-induced precontractions in our vessels and proved that the contractions were mediated by Ca2+ influx through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Similarly, we observed that serotonin-induced contractions were strongly enhanced by small K(+)-induced depolarizations. Pinacidil completely relaxed rings preconstricted with 5 microM serotonin and produced dose-dependent relaxations of 5 microM serotonin-preconstricted rings, with an IC50 of 1.26 microM. Similar results were observed (IC50 = 1.15 microM) when the endothelium was removed. The KATP blocker glibenclamide (3 microM), inhibited pinacidil-induced relaxations (5-10 microM) by approximately 25% although the KATP blocker tetrapentylammonium (10 microM), inhibited pinacidil-induced (5-10 microM) relaxations completely. Pinacidil 10 microM had only a minimal effect on rings precontracted with a 50 mM external K+ concentration (IC50 = 60 microM). Porcine and human arterial rings did not differ qualitatively in their responses. Moreover, in the patch clamp experiments pinacidil (1 microM and 20 microM) induced a large, nonrectifying, outward current in both human and porcine cells. The reversal potential was close to the K+ equilibrium potential, suggesting an induction of pinacidil-activated K+ current. The pinacidil-induced (1 microM) current was strongly inhibited by glibenclamide (3 microM). These data show that the relaxation of porcine and human coronary arteries by pinacidil is primarily induced by an opening of KATP in smooth muscle cells. Furthermore, the vasorelaxant effect of pinacidil is not endothelium dependent.
Pharmacological characterization of LY303870: a novel, potent and selective nonpeptide substance P (neurokinin-1) receptor antagonist.	LY303870 [(R)-1-[N-(2-methoxybenzyl)acetylamino]-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-[N-(2-(4- (piperidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)acetyl)amino]propane] is a new, potent and selective nonpeptide neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor antagonist. LY303870 bound selectively and with high affinity to human peripheral (Ki = 0.15 nM) and central (Ki = 0.10 nM) NK-1 receptors. LY303870 inhibited [125I]substance P (SP) binding to guinea pig brain homogenates with similar affinity; however, it had approximately 50-fold lesser affinity for rat NK-1 sites. The less active enantiomer, LY306155 [(S)-1-[N-(2-methoxybenzyl)acetylamino]-3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-[N-(2-(4- (piperidin-1-yl)piperidin-1-yl)acetyl)amino]-propane], was 1,000- to 15,000-fold less potent in all the species examined. LY303870 antagonized in vitro NK-1 receptor effects as demonstrated by blockade of SP-stimulated phosphoinositide turnover in UC-11 MG human astrocytoma cells (Ki = 1.5 nM) and interleukin-6 secretion from U-373 MG human astrocytoma cells (Ki = 5 nM). In addition, LY303870 inhibited SP-induced rabbit vena cava contractions (pA2 = 9.4) with high (50,000-fold) selectivity vs. NK-2 or NK-3 receptor-mediated responses. In vivo, LY303870 inhibited [Sar9,Met(O2)11]-SP induced guinea pig bronchoconstriction (ED50 = 75 micrograms/kg i.v.) and pulmonary microvascular leakage in the bronchi (ED50 = 12.8 micrograms/kg i.v.) and trachea (ED50 = 18.5 micrograms/kg i.v.). Therefore, LY303870 is a potent and selective NK-1 receptor antagonist in vitro and in vivo. The use of LY303870 will facilitate a better understanding of NK-1 receptors in physiological processes.
Effects of photodegradation products of nifedipine: the nitroso-derivative relaxes contractions of the rat aortic strip induced by norepinephrine and other agonists.	Effects of four photodegradation products of nifedipine (nitroso-, nitro-, azoxy- and N,N'-dioxide-derivatives) were studied in the rat aortic strip suspended in the bath medium. In the CaCl2-free bath medium containing 40 mM KCl, CaCl2 (2.5 mM) induced contraction, which was relaxed by nifedipine (-log [EC50] = 8.66 M) and all the four photodegradation products (-log[EC50] = 4.15-4.82 M). The EC50 values for all these substances were not affected by denuding the vessel of endothelium. In the bath medium containing KCl (15 mM), Bay K-8644 (2 x 10(-6) M) induced contraction, which was relaxed by nifedipine (10(-9)-10(-6) M) and its four photodegradation products (3 x 10(-6)-10(-4) M). Norepinephrine (10(-7) M) induced contraction, which was relaxed by the nitroso-derivative (10(-4) M) noncompetitively (pIC50 = 4.37) but not by three other photodegradation products. Both methylene blue and hemoglobin had no effect on the relaxation produced by the nitroso-derivative. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate induced contraction, which was inhibited completely by the nitroso-derivative (10(-4) M) but only by 42% by nifedipine (10(-4) M). Prostaglandin F2 alpha (3 x 10(-6) M), endothelin-1 (10(-9) M) and 5-hydroxytryptamine (10(-6) M) also induced contraction, which was relaxed effectively by the nitroso-derivative (10(-4) M) but not by any of the three other photodegradation products.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Plasma digoxin immunoreactivity and arterial potassium relaxation after quinapril therapy in hypertensive rats.	Plasma digitalis-like substance and altered function of arterial Na+,K(+)-ATPase have both been linked with elevated blood pressure, but the influence of antihypertensive therapy on these factors remains unknown. Therefore, we treated spontaneously hypertensive rats and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats with the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor quinapril for 10 weeks. The therapy markedly reduced blood pressure and plasma digoxin immunoreactivity, and it normalized the elevated plasma Na+:K+ ratio in the hypertensive animals. Relaxations of endothelium-denuded denervated arterial rings induced by return of potassium to the organ bath upon precontractions elicited by potassium-free solution were used to evaluate the function of vascular Na+,K(+)-ATPase. The rate of potassium relaxation was faster in quinapril-treated hypertensive rats and in both Wistar-Kyoto groups than in the hypertensive controls. Potassium relaxation was also effectively inhibited by the Na+,K(+)-ATPase inhibitor ouabain in all groups. In addition, arterial contractions to potassium chloride and relaxations to nitroprusside were examined. The contractions to lower concentrations of potassium chloride (20 mM) were enhanced in untreated hypertensive rats when compared with the other groups, although the maximal responses were corresponding in all groups. The time to reach base-line tension after washout of potassium chloride (125 mM) and the relaxations to nitroprusside did not differ in the study groups. In conclusion, the present results showed that long-term angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibition in parallel reduced plasma digoxin-like factor, enhanced arterial potassium relaxation (probably reflecting enhanced function of Na+,K(+)-ATPase) and normalized plasma Na+:K+ ratio in this type of genetic hypertension.
Effects of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) on pulmonary hypertension and lung vascular remodeling in a rat monocrotaline model of human pulmonary hypertension]	Prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) has been shown to be a potent pulmonary vasodilator in humans and in many animals. The effects of PGE1 on the development of pulmonary hypertension and on pulmonary vascular remodeling were studied in a rat monocrotaline (MCT) model of human pulmonary hypertension. By 3 weeks after injection, MCT (80 mg/kg S.C.) had resulted in high values of mean pulmonary arterial pressure and of the ratio of right ventricular weight to left ventricle+septum weight (RV/LV+S). PGE1 inhibited the development of pulmonary hypertension (300 micrograms/kg) and right ventricular hypertrophy (300 and 100 micrograms/kg) induced by MCT. Three weeks after the injection, the media walls of pulmonary arteries in lungs from rats given MCT were significantly thicker than those from lungs of control rats. PGE1 (300, 100, and 30 micrograms/kg) resulted in significantly less of this morphologic change, in a dose-dependent manner. These results indicate that PGE1 inhibits the development of pulmonary hypertension associated with lung vascular thickening induced by MCT. PGE1 may be useful for the treatment of pulmonary hypertension in humans.
Effects of KRN4884, a novel K channel opener, on the cardiovascular system in anesthetized dogs: a comparison with levcromakalim, nilvadipine, and nifedipine.	Pharmacological profiles of KRN4884, 5-amino-N-[2-(2-chlorophenyl)ethyl]-N'-cyano-3-pyridinecarboxamidine+ ++, were evaluated in in vitro and in vivo experiments. In rat isolated aorta, KRN4884 (10(-10)-10(-5) M) produced a concentration-dependent relaxation. Pretreatment with glibenclamide (10(-7)-10(-6) M) produced a rightward shift of the concentration-response curve for KRN4884. In anesthetized dogs, KRN4884 (3 and 10 micrograms/kg intravenously, i.v.), levcromakalim (3 and 10 micrograms/kg i.v.), nilvadipine (1-10 micrograms/kg i.v.), and nifedipine (1-10 micrograms/kg i.v.) produced decreases in mean blood pressure (MBP), total peripheral vascular resistance (TPR), and coronary vascular resistance (CVR), and increases in aortic blood flow (AoF) and coronary blood flow (CBF). The percentage decrease in CVR was greater than that in TPR with KRN4884 and levcromakalim, but nilvadipine and nifedipine showed no significant differences between CVR and TPR in percentage decreases. Heart rate (HR) was slightly increased by KRN4884 but was not affected by levcromakalim, nilvadipine, or nifedipine. Left ventricular dP/dt (LVdP/dt) was reduced only by nifedipine in a dose-dependent manner. The duration of the hypotensive action of KRN4884 was longer than those of levcromakalim and nifedipine and was similar to that of nilvadipine. The duration of the decreases in TPR and CVR induced by KRN4884 was longer than those induced by levcromakalim and nifedipine and shorter than that induced by nilvadipine. These results suggest that the cardiovascular effects of KRN4884 are very similar to those of the K channel opener levcromakalim and Ca channel blockers such as nilvadipine and nifedipine. However, the hypotensive effects of KRN4884 are long-acting in comparison with those of levcromakalim and the selective effect of KRN4884 on coronary vasculature is greater than those of nilvadipine and nifedipine.
Differential effects of the calcium antagonist mibefradil in epicardial and intramyocardial coronary arteries.	The efficacy of vasodilation depends on the drug and the contractile agonist involved. Furthermore, vasodilation also may be detrimental (i.e., coronary steal), possibly depending on the anatomic site and/or action of the vasodilator. We investigated the effects of Ca2+ antagonism in porcine epicardial and intramyocardial coronary arteries suspended in organ chambers filled with physiological salt solution (95% O2/5% CO2, 37 degrees C); isometric tension was measured. In epicardial vessels contracted with KCl, the thromboxane analogue U 46619, or endothelin-1 (ET-1), relaxations to the Ca2+ antagonist mibefradil were most effective after precontraction with KCl, followed by U 46619 and ET-1. In intramyocardial vessels, the contraction to KCl, U 46619, and particularly ET-1, was much more effectively inhibited by mibefradil than in epicardial arteries. In vessels preincubated with mibefradil, the drug was moderately effective in preventing the initiation of contractions. Preincubation with the inhibitor of nitric oxide production (NO), L omega-nitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) or endothelium removal, did not increase relaxations to mibefradil. However, epicardial but not intramyocardial vessels incubated with mibefradil exhibited enhanced relaxations to bradykinin (BK) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) as compared with control. Thus, Ca2+ antagonism is particularly effective in intramyocardial coronary arteries. In addition to its inhibitory effects on contractility, calcium antagonism facilitates the effects of endothelium-derived NO in epicardial coronaries at the level of vascular smooth muscle (VSM).
Antagonizing effects of VA-045 on reduced activity of rat locus coeruleus neurons following head injury or intravenous injection of clonidine.	Based on the finding that VA-045, a novel apovincaminic acid derivative, had improved disturbance in consciousness, we examined the effects of the drug on the electrical activity of locus coeruleus (LC) neurons in animal models of consciousness disturbance. The animal models of consciousness disturbance used in this experiment were closed head injury (CHI) and intravenous injection of clonidine. CHI as well as clonidine injection reduced the spontaneous activity of LC neurons. The reduction of the spontaneus activity of LC neurons following CHI or clonidine injection was restored by intravenous injection of VA-045. The change of LC neuronal activity induced VA-045 preceded desynchronization of EEG. These results suggest that VA-045 exerts its ameliorating effect on consciousness disturbances, at least in part, by augmenting the spontaneous activity of noradrenergic LC neurons.
Chronic exercise enhances endothelium-mediated dilation in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	This study investigated the effect of physical training on endothelial function in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). After 3 months, in conscious trained- and untrained-SHR body weight, systolic blood pressure and heart rate were 220 +/- 6 g vs 271 +/- 9 g, 172 +/- 7 mmHg vs 210 +/- 8 mmHg and 314 +/- 10 vs. 348 +/- 12 beats/min, respectively. In vitro, the dose-response curves of norepinephrine in isolated intact aortic and mesenteric rings form the exercise trained-SHR were significantly lower than those from the untrained-SHR. With denuded preparations, norepinephrine concentration-response curves were shifted to the left both in the trained- and untrained-SHR. This shift in the trained-SHR exceeded that in the untrained-SHR. The vasodilator response to acetylcholine in the trained-SHR was significantly greater than that in the untrained-SHR. Either N omega-nitro-L-arginine (100 mumol/l) or methylene blue (10 mumol/l) inhibited acetylcholine-induced vasodilator effect in aorta of trained- and untrained-SHR, but not in mesenteric artery of trained-SHR. Tetraethylammonium (10 mmol/l) inhibited significantly the N omega-nitro-L-arginine and methylene blue-resistant relaxation in mesenteric artery of trained-SHR, but not only by indomethacin (10 mumol/l). Collectively, these data demonstrate that chronic exercise increases EDRF/EDHF production (presumably by increasing endothelial shear stress), and may contribute to the enhanced effects of post-exercise hypotension.
Atypical antagonism of D1-receptor-mediated vasodilator response in the perfused kidney by SCH23390.	Vasodilator responses to dopexamine, fenoldopam and dopamine, which are known to have agonist activity at D1-dopamine receptors, were examined in the rat isolated perfused kidney preparation. Perfusion pressure was raised by perfusing with the thromboxane TxA2 analogue, U46619, and vasodilator responses were observed as dose-related falls in perfusion pressure. Propranolol (10(-6) M) and prazosin (10(-6) M) were present throughout to eliminate beta 2 and alpha 1-adrenoceptor-mediated responses, respectively. The vasodilator responses were antagonized by SCH23390 (10(-9) M), indicating that they were mediated via D1-receptors. The displacements of the dose-response curves for fenoldopam, dopexamine and dopamine were, however, non-parallel with significant depression of the maxima to 30.2, 37.9 and 34.3%, respectively. In the presence of SCH23390 (10(-8) M) and prazosin (10(-6) M), dopexamine, isoprenaline and noradrenaline produced dose-related renal vasodilation. This was antagonized by propranolol indicating a role for beta-adrenoceptors. In the case of dopexamine, the maximum response was depressed in the presence of propranolol. The reason for the atypical blockade of vasodilator responses by SCH23390 was investigated. One possibility was the appearance of transient vasoconstrictor responses at higher doses of fenoldopam, dopexamine and dopamine, usually preceding the vasodilatation. The possibility was therefore considered that the vasoconstriction may have opposed the usual vasodilation at high doses and thus limited the size of the maximum vasodilation in the presence of SCH23390. The vasoconstriction by fenoldopam was not antagonized by S-sulpiride, the D2-receptor antagonist but was blocked by mianserin and therefore attributed to 5-HT2 receptor stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Enhancement effect of carteolol on the clonidine-induced vasodilation of rat mesenteric arteries.	It has demonstrated that carteolol can increase the endothelium-dependent vasodilation induced by alpha-2 adrenergic agonist. In order to evaluate the effect of carteolol, and to clarify the mechanism, we examined the effects of 10 microM carteolol on the vasodilation induced by increasing doses (10(-7)-10(-4) M) of clonidine in perfused rat mesenteric arteries preconstricted with 100 microM phenylephrine. Clonidine elicited a dose-dependent vasodilation of the mesenteric arteries preconstricted with phenylephrine. Carteolol enhanced the vasodilation induced by higher doses (10(-5) and 10(-4) M) of clonidine, although carteolol itself exerted no direct vasodilating effect. On the other hand, 10 microM propranolol or 10 microM metoprolol did not augment the clonidine-induced vasodilation. In the presence of 100 microM NG-monomethyl L-arginine (LNMMA), an analogue of L-arginine, the enhancement of the clonidine-induced vasodilation by carteolol was abolished. This inhibition by LNMMA was restored with 300 microM L-arginine, but not with 300 microM D-arginine. These results suggest that carteolol enhances the clonidine-induced vasodilation by an endothelial-related mechanism mediated by the release of endothelium-derived nitric oxide in resistance vessels.
Propofol-associated dilation of rat distal coronary arteries is mediated by multiple substances, including endothelium-derived nitric oxide.	Previous in vitro studies on the effect of propofol on coronary arteries have shown variable results, ranging from constriction to no effect to dilation. Although most of these studies reported that the observed effect is endothelium-independent, propofol also releases nitric oxide from cultured porcine endothelial cells. The present study examines the direct effect of propofol in rat distal coronary arteries in vitro, especially in regard to endothelial dependence and involvement of the adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channels (KATP channels). Forty-three subepicardial arteries (size 91.1 +/- 15.8 microns) from Wistar rats were studied in vitro in a no-flow, pressurized (40 mm Hg) state, using an optical density video detection system. After preconstriction with the thromboxane analog U46619 1 microM, relaxation responses to increasing concentrations of propofol (10(-6)-10(-4) M) were measured after 1) endothelial denudation, 2) pretreatment with the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA), 3) pretreatment with the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin, 4) pretreatment with the KATP channel blocker glibenclamide, or 5) no intervention (control). Propofol produced a significant concentration-dependent vasodilation of the U46619-preconstricted coronary arteries. This effect was significantly attenuated by endothelial denudation, pretreatment with L-NNA, or indomethacin, but was not affected by glibenclamide. We conclude that propofol has a direct vasodilatory effect on distal coronary arteries in rats. This effect is primarily endothelium-dependent and is mediated by multiple substances, including nitric oxide (NO) and a vasodilatory prostanoid. The effect is not mediated by opening of the K(ATP) channels.
Mechanisms of dexmedetomidine-induced cerebrovascular effects in canine in vivo experiments.	Dexmedetomidine decreases cerebral blood flow without significantly affecting cerebral oxygen consumption in anesthetized dogs. To assess the direct cerebrovascular effects of dexmedetomidine, we investigated the responses of vasomotor tone to topical application of dexmedetomidine to pial vessels in vivo, using a parietal cranial window. Forty-one dogs were anesthetized with pentobarbital. In 20 dogs, we topically applied six concentrations of dexmedetomidine solution (10(-8), 10(-7), 10(-6), 10(-5), 10(-4), 10(-3) M) and directly measured pial arterial and venous diameters. In 10 dogs, the inhibitory effects of pretreatment of pial vessels with 10(-5) M yohimbine were examined after the application of 10(-5) dexmedetomidine. In the remaining 11 dogs, the effects of 10(-3) M dexmedetomidine were evaluated in the presence of N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), glibenclamide, or propranolol. Dexmedetomidine significantly constricted pial arteries and veins in a concentration-dependent manner (10(-7) M to 10(-4) M; P < 0.05). Yohimbine blocked dexmedetomidine-induced constriction of pial vessels (both large and small arteries and large veins P < 0.0001; small veins P < 0.005). However, when the highest concentration of dexmedetomidine (10(-3) M) was administered under the window, pial vessel diameter was not significantly altered. In the presence of glibenclamide, 10(-7) and 10(-3) M dexmedetomidine induced a significant decrease in pial arterial diameter compared with 10(-7) and 10(-3) M dexmedetomidine solution alone, respectively (P < 0.05). L-NAME or propranolol did not affect the dexmedetomidine-induced constriction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tolerance to nitroglycerin in vascular smooth muscle cells is not affected by the level of intracellular glutathione or L-cysteine.	A major hypothesis for the mechanism of tolerance to nitroglycerin (NTG) is that continued use causes a decrease in thiol donors within the vascular smooth muscle cell that are essential for the effect of NTG. We tested this idea directly in the target cell. NTG tolerance, measured as reduced formation of intracellular cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), was induced in pig coronary smooth muscle cells. The consequence of altering intracellular levels of the thiol donors, glutathione (GSH) and L-cysteine (L-cys), was determined. Incubating cells with 100 microM NTG for 1 h caused an 83% reduction in cGMP formation in response to acute readministration of 200 microM NTG for 2 min but was not associated with a reduction in intracellular GSH or L-cys. This result was not altered when intracellular GSH levels were increased three-fold by including 1 mM GSH in the incubation buffer. Also, recovery from tolerance was not affected by supplementation with GSH. Further, the response of cGMP to NTG was not altered by inhibiting the synthesis of GSH and lowering intracellular levels of GSH by 77%. Similar findings were made with supplemental L-cys or N-acetyl-L-cysteine. These results do not support the hypothesis that tolerance to NTG is the result of a reduction of the thiol donors GSH and L-cys within vascular smooth muscle cells.
Secretory component (polymeric immunoglobulin receptor) as an intrinsic inhibitor of biological functions of interferon gamma in keratinocytes.	Secretory component (SC) acts as a transmembrane polymeric immunoglobulin receptor of epithelial cells and is known to bind to polymeric IgA and to contribute to the secretion of secretory IgA (sIgA). We describe a new biological function for free SC (FSC) by which the expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) and HLA-DR induced by interferon gamma (IFN gamma) is inhibited in human keratinocytes. This activity coincided with suppression of adenosine cyclic 3,5-monophosphate (cyclic AMP) production in keratinocytes. Keratinocytes produced SC after stimulation with IFN gamma and this production was suppressed by the addition of H-7 or propranolol. The addition of propranolol resulted in prolongation of ICAM-1 expression on keratinocytes induced by IFN gamma. These results suggest that endogenously produced SC, as well as exogenously added FSC, acts as an inhibitor of IFN gamma. Therefore, our results suggest that SC plays an antiinflammatory role in the pathogenesis of inflammatory skin diseases via inhibition in keratinocytes of IFN gamma induced expression of ICAM-1 and HLA-DR.
Carvedilol, a new beta-adrenoreceptor blocker antihypertensive drug, protects against free-radical-induced endothelial dysfunction.	We tested the ability of carvedilol, an antihypertensive beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist with antioxidant properties, to protect rat aorta rings from free-radical-induced endothelial cell (EC) dysfunction. Rings were exposed to the superoxide generator pyrogallol. Vascular function of intact rings was assessed by observing acetylcholine (ACh)-induced vasorelaxation following submaximal contraction by U-46619. Function of rings denuded of ECs was assessed by observing S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP)-induced vasorelaxation following submaximal contraction by U-46619. Carvedilol exerted a significant protective effect against pyrogallol-induced vasoconstriction (17.1 +/- 4.8 vs. 31.9 +/- 5.4% for vehicle, p < 0.05). Carvedilol also demonstrated significant protection against pyrogallol-induced endothelium dysfunction, enhancing vasorelaxation to 1,000 nmol/l ACh (73 +/- 3.9 vs. 48 +/- 3.0% vehicle, p < 0.01). These protective effects were not seen with propanolol, a pure beta-receptor antagonist. Carvedilol mixed with pyrogallol and SNAP preserved SNAP-induced vasorelaxation in rings denuded of ECs (80.4 +/- 5.3 vs. 63.7 +/- 4.8% control, p < 0.05). Carvedilol appears to protect vascular function by scavenging free radicals and enhancing the effects of NO.
DQ-2511, having an antiulcer action, elicits vasodilation through an increase in cyclic GMP contents in rat arteries.	It has been reported that 3-(([2-(3,4-dimethoxyphenyl)ethyl]carbamoyl)methyl)amino-N-methylbenz amide (DQ-2511: ecabapide) effectively increases gastric mucosal blood flow in rats, suggesting that this property may contribute to the antiulcer activity. To clarify the mechanisms underlying the increase in gastric mucosal blood flow, we investigated the dilator response of rat isolated thoracic aorta, mesenteric artery and celiac artery smooth muscle preparations to DQ-2511. This compound prevented noradrenaline-induced contraction in both the presence and absence of endothelium in the arterial specimen, and it (0.01-1 mM) inhibited these contractions induced by noradrenaline in all tissues in a concentration-dependent manner. This inhibitory effect of DQ-2511 was most evident in the celiac artery. The dilator response to DQ-2511 (0.1 mM) was abolished after pretreatment with methylene blue (3 microM), a guanylate cyclase inhibitor. Under the same conditions, methylene blue inhibited the dilator response to acetylcholine (1 microM), but not that to papaverine (10 microM). Furthermore, when DQ-2511 (0.01-1 mM) was incubated with the arterial preparations, this compound increased cyclic GMP content in segments in a concentration-dependent manner. These findings demonstrate that the vasodilation induced by DQ-2511 is independent of the endothelium and is related to the augmentation of intracellular cyclic GMP content, which may consequently contribute to the increased gastric mucosal blood flow.
Vasorelaxant properties of isolated human internal mammary arteries and saphenous veins: comparative effects of milrinone and sodium nitroprusside.	Internal mammary arteries (IMA) and saphenous veins (SV) are vessels currently used in human coronary artery bypass surgery. In addition to late complications, the vessels may develop spasm perioperatively. We studied isolated IMA and SV from patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft to reproduce in vitro the phenomenon of vasospasm. Vascular rings were constricted with phenylephrine in a classic organ bath. The effects of two vasodilator agents, milrinone and sodium nitroprusside (SNP), on phenylephrine precontracted vessels and as a pretreatment to reverse or prevent the contraction, respectively, were studied. When added to a precontracted vessel, milrinone had the same vasorelaxant effect as SNP in artery rings (EC50: 7.4 x 10(-7) +/- 0.8 x 10(-7) vs. 5.9 x 10(-7) +/- 0.8 x 10(-7) M, milrinone vs. SNP). In veins, milrinone was less effective in relaxing the rings than SNP (EC50: 15 x 10(-7) +/- 3 x 10(-7) vs. 1.5 x 10(-7) +/- 0.1 x 10(-7) M, milrinone vs. SNP, p < 0.05). If milrinone or SNP was added as a pretreatment, using the EC50 values, the inhibitory effect of milrinone on phenylephrine-induced contractions was greater in arteries than in veins (71 +/- 4 vs. 36 +/- 11% inhibition of maximum contraction to phenylephrine, artery vs. vein, p < 0.05). In arteries, milrinone caused a greater inhibitory effect than SNP (71 +/- 4 vs. 52 +/- 9% inhibition, milrinone vs. SNP, p < 0.05), but similar inhibition in veins (36 +/- 11 vs. 42 +/- 16%, milrinone vs. SNP).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Characterization of K currents in cultured human corporal smooth muscle cells.	In order to gain more mechanistic insight into the regulation of corporal smooth muscle tone, we conducted electrophysiological studies on homogeneous explant cell cultures of human corpus cavernosum smooth muscle. Patch clamp analyses in the whole cell mode revealed a mean resting potential of -43 +/- 4.9 m V (n = 12 cells). Large whole cell outward K currents were very prominent in these cells, and ranged from 0.5 to 1.5 nA. In some cells, a transient, voltage-dependent A current accounted for a significant portion of the observed whole cell currents. Furthermore, stimulation with the calcium channel agonist BAY K 8644 or the K channel agonist pinacidil doubled the magnitude of the whole cell K current, as would be expected for maxi-K (KCa) and metabolically gated K channels (KATP), respectively. Single channel recordings in the detached patch mode consistently revealed the presence of at least two K channels: 1) a KCa channel, with a conductance of approximately 190 pS; and 2) a putative delayed rectifier channel with a conductance of approximately 50 pS. Furthermore, all channel types showed some degree of voltage and/or calcium sensitivity. In conclusion, the large magnitude of the whole cell K currents and the observed K channel heterogeneity indicate a potentially important role for these channels in modulating corporal smooth muscle tone.
Relaxation of trabecular meshwork and ciliary muscle by release of nitric oxide.	Recent evidence suggests that nitric oxide (NO) is a major messenger molecule regulating smooth muscle contractility. A role for NO in aqueous humor dynamics, and thus regulation of intraocular pressure, has been postulated. Recently, we described contractile properties of isolated bovine trabecular meshwork and ciliary muscle strips. To assess whether vasodilators contribute to the regulation of trabecular meshwork and ciliary muscle contractility, we measured the effect of various substances known to induce vasodilation by increasing intracellular cGMP production.
Effects of nitric oxide-related agents on rat testicular function.	The effects of nitric oxide (NO)-related agents on testicular function were examined in male rats with measurements of serum luteinizing hormone, serum testosterone, testicular interstitial fluid (TIF) testosterone, and TIF volumes. Serum and TIF testosterone levels and luteinizing hormone secretion were significantly decreased by the NO donor, isosorbide dinitrate (ISDN), and the NO synthase (NOS) substrate, L-arginine methyl ester, a source for the endogenous production of NO. The effects of ISDN on TIF volumes were inconsistent, but L-arginine methyl ester decreased TIF formation in a dose-dependent manner. In addition, ISDN dose dependently suppressed testosterone secretion stimulated by human chorionic gonadotropin treatment, suggesting that the effects on testosterone secretion were independent of changes in secretion of the endogenous gonadotropin luteinizing hormone. ISDN, L-arginine methyl ester, and the endogenous NOS substrate L-arginine completely blocked testosterone secretion stimulated by the NOS inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (NAME), whereas the relatively inactive NOS substrate, D-arginine, only partially blocked NAME-stimulated testosterone secretion. Hydralazine and nicardipine, two vasodilators that do not exhibit prominent NO-related effects, also blocked basal testosterone secretion and testosterone secretion stimulated by the vasoconstrictor NAME.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Tyrosine phosphorylation of pp125FAK in platelets requires coordinated signaling through integrin and agonist receptors.	FAK is a focal adhesion kinase that is phosphorylated on tyrosine in activated platelets. Induction of FAK phosphorylation requires both fibrinogen binding to integrin alpha IIb beta 3 and post-occupancy events during agonist-induced platelet aggregation or platelet spreading on a fibrinogen matrix. To identify the signaling pathways necessary for tyrosine phosphorylation of FAK, we have examined the conditions that stimulate or inhibit this phosphorylation in platelets in which fibrinogen binding to alpha IIb beta 3 and platelet aggregation were induced directly with an anti-beta 3 Fab fragment (anti-LIBS6). Apyrase was added to prevent effects of the endogenous platelet agonist, ADP. Under these conditions, neither fibrinogen binding nor primary platelet aggregation was sufficient to induce FAK phosphorylation, suggesting that a second "costimulatory" event was required. Indeed, when epinephrine was added with fibrinogen and anti-LIBS6, large platelet aggregates formed and FAK phosphorylation occurred. This response was prevented by blockade of cyclooxygenase with indomethacin or thromboxane A2 receptors with SQ 30,741. A stable thromboxane A2 analogue (U46619) could substitute for epinephrine as the costimulus. Epinephrine costimulation of FAK phosphorylation was also prevented by chelation of intracellular Ca2+ with BAPTA or selective inhibition of protein kinase C (PKC) with bisindolylmaleimide, indicating that Ca2+ and PKC are necessary for FAK phosphorylation under these conditions. Epinephrine also promoted FAK phosphorylation and adhesive spreading of apyrase-treated platelets on a fibrinogen matrix. Cytochalasin D, an inhibitor of actin polymerization, blocked FAK phosphorylation under all these conditions. Thus, tyrosine phosphorylation of FAK in platelets requires coordinated signaling through occupied integrin and agonist receptors. These separate pathways may converge to increase free Ca2+ and activate PKC and thus promote the cytoskeletal reorganization required for activation of FAK.
Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate selectively prevents the expression of the inducible nitric oxide synthase in the rat aorta.	Exposure of rat aortic rings without endothelium to interleukin-1 beta for 5 h significantly attenuated the contractions due to phenylephrine and increased the tissue content of guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic GMP) due to the induction of nitric oxide synthase. The presence of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, a specific inhibitor of nuclear transcription factor kappa B activation, during the exposure of the rings to interleukin-1 beta prevented these responses to interleukin-1 beta. Rat aortic rings which had been incubated for 5 h with interleukin-1 beta in the absence and presence of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate prior to the organ chamber experiment had a similar concentration-dependent relaxation curve for acetylcholine in rings with endothelium, and for 3-morpholino-sydnonimine (SIN-1) in rings without. Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate applied acutely did not alter the tone elicited by phenylephrine in rings with or without endothelium and had no effect on the subsequent relaxation induced by acetylcholine in rings with endothelium or by SIN-1 in rings without endothelium. These observations suggest that pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate prevents the interleukin-1 beta-mediated expression of the inducible nitric oxide synthase without affecting the activity of the constitutive enzyme in the rat aorta.
Structural changes in the vascular wall in vasoconstrictor and vasodilator exposures]	Noradrenaline vasoconstriction of the tail artery decreased external, internal diameters and the cross-section area of all the elements of the blood vessel wall. Papaverine vasorelaxation of the same artery increased the diameters but reduced the endothelium and adventitia areas. The data obtained suggest a close relation between the blood vessel tonus and the morphology of all the elements of the vessel wall.
Cerebral metabolic, hemodynamic and antihypoxic properties of l-eburnamonine.	l-Eburnamonine--16-oxoeburnane--assumes experimental cerebral 'oxygenator' and antihypoxic properties which appear more pronounced than those of vincamine. In anesthetized dogs, l-eburnamonine increases the cerebral oxygen supply and the cerebral oxygen consumption, without cerebral vasodilation; l-eburnamonine improves the cerebral capillary circulation, as observed on the rheoencephalogram. l-Eburnamonine inhibits the effects of hypobaric hypoxia in mice (increase of survival time) and in rats (inhibition of amnesic effects of hypoxia). l-Eburnamonine decreases the electroencephalographic consequences of the acute and iterative asphyxic anoxia in curarized rats and, by means of the protection of the cerebral cortex, inhibits the postischemic increase of thalamic somesthetic evoked potentials in curarized cats. Further studies are necessary to precise the mechanisms involved in these 'cerebral protective' properties of l-eburnamonine.
Assessment of pharmacological effects on cerebral blood flow.	The effect of various drugs on hemispheric and regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) was investigated in a total of 410 patients. While a few drugs (midodrin, proxazole, vincamine, hexobendine, extract of ginkgo biloba, dextran and ouabain) were able to improve hemispheric CBF, only ephedrine combined with xanthines decreased CBF. For vincamine the dependency of the effect on certain plasma levels was established. Only ouabain of the tested cardiac glycosides effected CBF; their similar hemodynamic actions suggest here an influence of ouabain on cerebral vessels. For the evaluation of drug effects on rCBF the detection of heterogeneous responses is important. Such responses may be quantified by regression analysis. While intracerebral steal effects were observed only under certain circumstances, inverse cerebral steal phenomena may be caused by diverging actions of several drugs. If treatment is aimed at improvement of cerebral hemodynamics, only drugs with a demonstrated effect, at least on perfusion of ischemic regions, should be employed.
Effect of (-)eburnamonine, papaverine and UDP-glucose on cerebral energy state during and after experimental hypoxia and ischaemia in beagle dog.	The effect of (-)eburnamonine, papaverine and UDP-glucose intracarotid perfusion has been evaluated in the brain of beagle dogs during various conditions of cerebral damage (hypoxia, hypoxia plus incomplete ischaemia, hypoxia plus complete ischaemia), and after 3, 15 or 30 min of the post-hypoxic recovery and recirculation. The behaviour of fuels (glycogen, glucose), of glycolytic pathway intermediates (glucose-6-phosphate, pyruvate) and end-product (lactate), of the pool of labile phosphates (ATP, ADP, AMP, creatine phosphate) and the energy charge potential of the brain were evaluated in the motor area of the cerebral cortex. The different pharmacological effects of (-)eburnamonine, papaverine and UDP-glucose are discussed with regard to the biochemical changes taking place during the physiopathological conditions tested.
Nitric oxide hyperpolarizes rabbit mesenteric arteries via ATP-sensitive potassium channels.	1. Nitric oxide (NO) relaxes vascular smooth muscle (VSM) by mechanisms which are not fully understood. One possibility is that NO hyperpolarizes membranes, thereby diminishing Ca2+ entry through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. In the current study, the effects of NO on membrane potential of rabbit mesenteric arteries were recorded using intracellular microelectrodes. 2. NO, released by 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1, 3 microM), reversibly hyperpolarized arteries by -9.5 +/- 4.0 mV (means +/- S.D., n = 97) from a resting membrane potential of -53.1 +/- 5.7 mV. The hyperpolarization was blocked by oxyhaemoglobin (20 microM), and only occurred in arteries pre-treated with N omega-nitro-L-arginine (100 microM) or denuded of endothelium. 3. The effect of SIN-1 was concentration dependent (EC50 approximately 0.4 microM) and its dose response was shifted to the left by zaprinast (100 microM), an inhibitor of cGMP-specific phosphodiesterases. 4. The hyperpolarization due to SIN-1 was modified by changes in extracellular K+ concentration, but not by changes in Ca2+, Na+ or Cl-. The hyperpolarization was blocked by glibenclamide (IC50 approximately 0.15 microM), but not by apamin (3-300 nM), barium (5-150 microM), tetraethylammonium (0.1-10 mM), or 4-aminopyridine (5-500 microM). The hyperpolarization due to lemakalim (0.03-3 microM), an activator of ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP), displayed the same sensitivities to these K+ channel blocking agents, whereas the endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor, triggered by the addition of acetylcholine (3 microM), caused a hyperpolarization (-15.3 +/- 6.2 mV) that was blocked by apamin, but not by any other agent. 5. These results suggest that NO hyperpolarizes VSM in rabbit mesenteric arteries by activating KATP channels, with the accumulation of cGMP as an intermediate step.
Impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxation by diesel exhaust particles in rat thoracic aorta.	Nitric oxide released from vascular endothelium plays important regulatory roles in cardiovascular and pulmonary systems. Epidemiological studies suggest that diesel exhaust particles (DEP) seem to be one of the causative factors responsible for the recent increase in pulmonary diseases. To clarify the pathogenic mechanism, the effects of DEP on vascular endothelial functions were investigated in terms of endothelium-dependent relaxation. Ring preparations of rat thoracic aorta were preincubated for 10 min with a DEP suspension (1, 10, 100 micrograms/ml) at 37 degrees C in organ baths and relaxed with cumulative additions of acetylcholine following precontraction with phenylephrine (10(-6) M). The relaxation was attenuated by DEP-exposure in a concentration-dependent manner. An addition of superoxide dismutase (SOD) completely abolished the inhibitory effect of DEP at lower concentrations, but only partially at the higher concentration. DEP (10 micrograms/ml) neither affected the contractile response to phenylephrine in intact aortic rings nor the endothelium-independent relaxation by sodium nitroprusside in denuded rings, while DEP (100 micrograms/ml) significantly attenuated both responses. These results suggest that 1) inhaled DEP causes pulmonary inflammation by inhibiting the endothelial formation and/or the effect of nitric oxide and 2) SOD reduces the adverse effects.
Centrally applied bombesin increases nerve activity of both sympathetic and adrenal branch of the splanchnic nerves.	We reported that centrally applied bombesin probably excites both the gastric sympathetic and adrenomedullary systems and thus induces inhibition of gastric acid secretion. In the present study, therefore, we examined whether or not centrally applied bombesin directly affects sympathetic nerve activities in rats anesthetized with urethane. Intracerebroventricular administration of bombesin (0.3 and 3.0 nmol) increased discharge rates of the sympathetic branch as well as those of the adrenal branch of preganglionic greater splanchnic nerves. These effects were not secondary to changes in arterial blood pressure by bombesin. In conclusion, centrally applied bombesin directly activates both the sympathetic and adrenomedullary systems.
The effects of losartan and captopril on vasopressor actions of cirazoline in the absence and presence of SZL-49 and nifedipine.	The effects of the nonpeptide angiotensin II receptor antagonist losartan and the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor captopril on pressor responses to the selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist cirazoline (10 ng/kg-3.0 mg/kg) in the pithed rat were compared. In addition, the effects of losartan and captopril on pressor responses to cirazoline were compared in the presence of the selective irreversible alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist SZL-49 (1-(4-amino-6,7-dimethoxy-2-quinazolinyl)-4-(2-bicyclo[2,2,2]octa-2,5- dienyl-carbonyl)-piperzine) and/or the Ca2+ channel antagonist nifedipine. Losartan (5.0 mg/kg) and captopril (3.0 mg/kg), as compared to saline, significantly lowered the blood pressure of intact, anaesthetized and pithed rats. Continuous infusion with vasopressin was used to restore the blood pressure of pithed rats pretreated with losartan or captopril to a level comparable to animals that had received saline. Losartan, captopril, nifedipine (1.0 mg/kg), and SZL-49 (10.0 mg/kg) antagonized the pressor actions of cirazoline, which displaced the dose-diastolic blood pressure response curve for the agonist to the right. Moreover, pressor responses to cirazoline were significantly reduced in rats that had received losartan and nifedipine in comparison to nifedipine alone. In contrast, in rats treated with nifedipine, further administration of captopril did not significantly reduce pressor responses to cirazoline as compared to nifedipine alone. Cirazoline-mediated pressor responses at all doses were significantly attenuated in rats treated with SZL-49 and either losartan or nifedipine combined as compared to SZL-49 alone. In contrast, only cirazoline-mediated pressor responses at lower doses were significantly reduced by pretreatment with a combination of SZL-49 and captopril as compared to SZL-49 alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Long-term sensory denervation does not modify endothelial function or endothelial substance P and nitric oxide synthase in rat mesenteric arteries.	Mesenteric endothelial cell function and immunoreactivity for substance P and nitric oxide synthase (NOS) were examined in control rats and rats treated with capsaicin as neonates to destroy primary afferent nerves. Endothelial vasodilator function was examined pharmacologically in the methoxamine raised-tone isolated perfused mesenteric arterial bed. Endothelial immunoreactivity for substance P and NOS was examined at the ultrastructural level by electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry. The endothelium-dependent vasodilators acetylcholine and adenosine 5'-triphosphate elicited dose-dependent relaxations which were not different between control and capsaicin-treated rats. Dose-dependent relaxations to endothelium-independent vasodilators, calcitonin gene-related peptide and sodium nitroprusside, were also unchanged by capsaicin treatment. Positive staining for substance P was detected in 25% of endothelial cells in both control and capsaicin-treated rats. Positive staining for NOS was detected in 50% of endothelial cells in control rats, and this was not changed by capsaicin treatment. These results confirm that endothelial substance P is independent of substance P contained in sensory nerves. Long-term sensory denervation does not produce changes in endothelium-dependent or -independent relaxation, or in the number of endothelial cells showing positive labelling for substance P and NOS in rat mesenteric arteries.
Heterogeneity of endothelium-dependent mechanisms in different rabbit arteries.	The possible endothelial factors involved in endothelium-dependent relaxations induced by acetylcholine (ACh) in aorta, mesenteric and femoral arteries of rabbit were analyzed. In thoracic aorta precontracted with noradrenaline, NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and methylene blue (MB), inhibitors of nitric oxide (NO) synthase and guanylate cyclase, practically abolished ACh relaxation. This relaxation was reduced by the Na+ pump inhibition with ouabain and K(+)-free solution, and by the blockade of Ca(2+)-dependent K+ channels with tetraethylammonium (TEA). Ouabain reduced the relaxation produced by the NO donor, sodium nitroprusside (SNP). In the mesenteric artery, L-NAME and MB produced a small reduction of ACh relaxation. However, ouabain, K(+)-free medium and TEA markedly decreased this relaxation. SNP induced a relaxation which was diminished by ouabain. In segments precontracted with high K+, ACh relaxation was abolished by L-NAME and MB. In femoral arteries, L-NAME and MB reduced ACh relaxation. The stimulated cGMP concentrations caused by ACh or SNP were less in the aorta than in mesenteric and femoral arteries. These results suggest that ACh relaxation is mediated: in aorta by endothelial NO which may hyperpolarize to some extent the smooth muscle cells through the sodium pump activation, in mesenteric artery by endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor and NO, the latter being clearly expressed in segments contracted with high K+, and in femoral artery essentially by endothelial NO release.
Interleukin 1 induces prostacyclin-dependent increases in cyclic AMP production and does not affect cyclic GMP production in human vascular smooth muscle cells.	Interleukin 1 (IL-1) is a pro-inflammatory cytokine which has direct vasorelaxant effects on vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMC). In the present study, IL-1 markedly increased intracellular levels of the vasodilatory mediator, cAMP, in human saphenous and human aortic VSMC. IL-1-induced cAMP was associated with a marked increase in prostacyclin (PGI2) production, and was reversed by indomethacin and tranylcypromine, inhibitors of cyclooxygenase and PGI2 synthetase respectively. Furthermore, PGI2, but not PGE2, was a potent inducer of cAMP production in HSVSMC, implicating a role for PGI2 in mediating IL-1-induced cAMP production. In previous studies, IL-1 increased immunoreactive cGMP production in human saphenous VSMC through a pathway inhibitable by soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitors, methylene blue and LY83583, but not by nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitors, suggesting a role of NO-independent activation of soluble guanylate cyclase. However, in the present study, it was found that cAMP cross-reacted significantly in cGMP radioimmunoassays employing three out of four commercial antisera, that IL-1 did not affect cGMP production in human saphenous or human aortic VSMC as determined by an RIA having low cAMP cross-reactivity, and that both LY83583 and methylene blue inhibited IL-1-induced increases in cAMP. The results implicate prostacyclin-dependent cAMP production as a mediator of the vasodilatory effects of IL-1 in humans.
Attenuation by nitrosothiol NO donors of acute intestinal microvascular dysfunction in the rat.	1. The effects of the nitric oxide (NO) donors, S-nitroso-glutathione (SNOG) and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine (SNAP), on the acute intestinal microvascular dysfunction induced by NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) in combination with low doses of endotoxin were investigated in the anaesthetized rat. 2. Administration of L-NAME (5 mg kg-1, s.c.) concurrently with E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS, 3 mg kg-1, i.v.) provoked the leakage of radiolabelled albumin in the ileum and colon, as a measure of microvascular damage, determined 1 h after challenge. 3. Intravenous infusion of SNOG or SNAP (1-10 micrograms kg-1 min-1) dose-dependently attenuated the microvascular leakage induced by L-NAME and LPS. 4. Infusion of the lowest doses of SNOG or SNAP (1 microgram kg-1 min-1, i.v.) that significantly reduced the albumin leakage, did not affect the increase in blood pressure in response to L-NAME in LPS-treated rats. Higher doses of SNOG or SNAP (5-10 micrograms kg-1 min-1, i.v.) dose-dependently reduced this increase in blood pressure. 5. In control studies, intravenous infusion of glutathione (10 micrograms kg-1 min-1) or N-acetyl-penicillamine (10 micrograms kg-1 min-1) had no effect on microvascular leakage in the ileum and colon induced by LPS and L-NAME. 6. Pretreatment with rabbit anti-rat neutrophil serum (0.4 ml kg-1, i.p., 4 h before challenge), which reduced the neutrophil count in peripheral arterial blood, also inhibited the microvascular leakage in the ileum and colon. 7. The protective effects of the nitrosothiol NO donors in this model may reflect, in part, modulation of neutrophil interactions within the microcirculation or actions on endothelial cell integrity, in addition to any local vasodilator action.
Potentiation of P1075-induced K+ channel opening by stimulation of adenylate cyclase in rat isolated aorta.	1. The effects of analogues and stimulators of cyclic AMP on the 86Rb+ efflux-stimulating and binding properties of P1075, an opener of ATP-dependent potassium channels, were studied in rat aortic rings. The increase in 86Rb+ efflux stimulated by P1075 was taken as a qualitative measure of K+ channel opening. 2. Forskolin, a direct activator of adenylate cyclase, isobutylmethylxanthine (IBMX), a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, and dibutyryl-cyclic AMP (db-cyclic AMP), a membrane permeant cyclic AMP-analogue, relaxed rat aortic rings contracted by noradrenaline with EC50 values of 0.06, 2 and 10 microM, respectively. 3. Forskolin, IBMX and db-cyclic AMP produced concentration-dependent increases of the 86Rb+ efflux induced by P1075 (50 nM) by up to twofold with EC50 values of about 0.1, 1.7 and 81 microM. At these concentrations the agents had little effect on the basal rate of 86Rb+ efflux. 4. The 86Rb+ efflux produced by P1075 in the presence of the cyclic AMP stimulators was inhibited by glibenclamide, a blocker of ATP-sensitive potassium channels. 5. IBMX (100 microM) induced a leftward shift of the concentration-86Rb+ efflux curve of P1075 without increasing the maximum. The enhancements of P1075-stimulated 86Rb+ efflux produced by combinations of forskolin and IBMX were either additive or less than additive. 6. The protein kinase A inhibitor, H-89, inhibited P1075-stimulated 86Rb+ efflux in the presence of IBMX significantly more than in the absence of IBMX, suggesting that the effect of increased cyclic AMP levels is mediated by protein kinase A. 7. At high concentrations, forskolin and IBMX slightly increased basal 86Rb+ efflux and inhibited the tracer efflux induced by P1075.8. Binding of [3H]-P1075 to rat aortic rings was either unaffected or inhibited by forskolin, IBMX and db-cyclic AMP.9. This study shows that moderate stimulation of the cyclic AMP system potentiates the K+ channel opening effect of P1075 by activation of protein kinase A. The fact that binding of [3H]-P1075 remains unchanged or is diminished favours the hypothesis that the K'channel openers activate ATP-dependent K+ channels by an indirect mechanism.
The involvement of ATP-sensitive potassium channels in beta-adrenoceptor-mediated vasorelaxation in the rat isolated mesenteric arterial bed.	1. We have used the isolated buffer-perfused superior mesenteric arterial bed of the rat to assess the involvement of ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels in the vasorelaxant responses to beta-adrenoceptor agonists. 2. The vasorelaxant potencies of the non-selective beta-adrenoceptor agonist, isoprenaline, the beta 1-adrenoceptor agonist, dobutamine and the beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist, terbutaline were all significantly (P < 0.05) reduced (isoprenaline, ED50 = 265 +/- 31 pmol v. 1.05 +/- 0.42 nmol; dobutamine, ED50 = 294 +/- 67 pmol v. 497 +/- 115 pmol; terbutaline, ED50 = 157 +/- 26 nmol v. 452 +/- 120 nmol) in the presence of the KATP-channel blocker, glibenclamide. 3. The presence of glibenclamide only weakly influenced the vasorelaxant properties of salbutamol, a beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist, while those of verapamil, a beta-adrenoceptor-independent vasorelaxant, were unaffected. 4. In radioligand binding experiments, glibenclamide (1 nM-100 microM) did not displace any specific [3H]-dihydroalprenolol binding from rat beta-adrenoceptors. Therefore, glibenclamide does not bind to beta-adrenoceptors at the concentration used in the present investigation. 5. Vasorelaxant responses to dibutyryl cyclic AMP, the cell permeable analogue of cyclic AMP, were also unaffected by glibenclamide, indicating that the coupling of beta-adrenoceptors to KATP-channels occurs independently of the elevation of intracellular cyclic AMP. 6. We have shown that a significant element of the vasorelaxant responses to both beta 1- and beta 2-adrenoceptor activation involves the opening of KATP-channels. In conclusion, KATP-channels may play a physiological role in beta-adrenoceptor-mediated vasodilatation.
Contribution of P1-(A2b subtype) and P2-purinoceptors to the control of vascular tone in the rat isolated mesenteric arterial bed.	1. The direct vascular effects of adenosine and ATP were compared in the isolated and perfused mesenteric arterial bed of the rat. The actions of analogues of adenosine and ATP were also examined. 2. In preparations at basal tone, adenosine lacked vasoconstrictor actions, while ATP elicited dose-dependent vasoconstrictor responses. When the tone of preparations was raised by adding methoxamine to the perfusate, adenosine and its stable analogue, 2-chloroadenosine (2-CADO) elicited dose-dependent vasodilation. The A2 adenosine receptor agonist, 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA) was active at lower doses than adenosine, while the A2a-selective agonist, CGS 21680 and the selective A1 agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) failed to induce vasodilatation. ATP and its analogue, 2-methylthio ATP, elicited dose-dependent vasodilatation at doses 400 fold lower than adenosine. 3. Vasodilator responses to adenosine and 2-CADO were sensitive to antagonism by 1 microM 8-sulphophenyltheophylline (8-SPT) and were unaffected by inhibition of nitric oxide synthase by N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). In contrast, vasodilator responses to ATP were not sensitive to antagonism by 8-SPT and were almost abolished by L-NAME treatment. 4. These results indicate that in the rat mesenteric arterial bed, while both adenosine and ATP participate in the purinergic control of vascular tone, adenosine appears to be a weaker vasodilator than ATP and lacks vasoconstrictor action. A2b adenosine receptors account for the adenosine-induced vasodilatation which is independent of the production of nitric oxide.
Divergent mechanisms of ATP-sensitive K+ channel-induced vasodilation in renal afferent and efferent arterioles. Evidence of L-type Ca2+ channel-dependent and -independent actions of pinacidil.	K+ channel openers (PCOs), such as pinacidil, elicit vasodilation primarily by hyperpolarization-induced inhibition of L-type Ca2+ channel activation. The physiological role of other mechanisms suggested to contribute to PCO-induced vasodilation is not well established. In the renal microcirculation, L-type Ca2+ channels play a prominent role in vasoconstriction of the afferent arteriole (AA) but are absent or physiologically silent in the efferent arteriole (EA). Thus, L-type Ca2+ channel-dependent and -independent mechanisms can readily be distinguished in this model. In the present study, we found that pinacidil potently inhibited Bay K 8644-induced AA vasoconstriction. Pinacidil also preferentially inhibited angiotensin II-induced AA vasoconstriction (approximately ninefold greater potency than EA). These results are consistent with an AA effect of pinacidil on L-type Ca2+ channel activation. Unexpectedly, 10 mumol/L pinacidil inhibited AA and EA responses to similar extents (84 +/- 10% and 71 +/- 9%, respectively). In both AAs and EAs, glibenclamide restored normal reactivity, indicating an involvement of the ATP-sensitive K+ channels. In the EA, however, pretreatment with diltiazem did not alter the effects of pinacidil. Nevertheless, 45 mmol/L KCl reversed the EA actions of pinacidil, indicating an essential requirement for a normal K+ gradient. These findings suggest that the EA actions of pinacidil involve alterations in membrane potential but not changes in L-type Ca2+ channel activity. Overall, our findings do support the premise that L-type Ca2+ channel modulation is involved in PCO-induced vasodilation in the renal microcirculation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of insulin on acetylcholine-induced vasodilation in normotensive subjects and patients with essential hypertension.	The present study was designed to directly test the vasodilation action of insulin and its relation to endothelium-dependent mechanisms.
Improved preservation of saphenous vein grafts by the use of glyceryl trinitrate-verapamil solution during harvesting.	High-pressure distension during harvesting damages the saphenous vein (SV) and may contribute to subsequent coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) occlusion. Application of vasodilator agents to the SV during harvesting may reduce the need for high-pressure distension and improve graft quality. We tested the effects of a vasodilator solution containing glyceryl trinitrate and verapamil (GV) or the conventional agent papaverine (Pap) on the pressure necessary to overcome SV spasm and on the structure and biochemistry of the SV graft.
Biphasic pressor responses to norepinephrine in humans.	We investigated pressor responses to intravenous bolus infusion of norepinephrine in seven healthy volunteers. Norepinephrine (1, 2, and 4 micrograms/kg) elevated blood pressure in a concentration-dependent manner and decreased heart rate. The pressor response to norepinephrine was biphasic (early and late). Intravenous administration of phentolamine (10 mg) completely abolished the pressor response to norepinephrine, and prazosin (5 mg, given orally) inhibited the early and late responses to a same extent. Continuous intravenous infusion of nicardipine (2 micrograms/kg/min) inhibited the late pressor response but not the early one. These data suggest that bolus infusion of norepinephrine evoked the biphasic pressor response and that the late response depends on vasoconstriction by calcium influx through nicardipine-sensitive calcium channels.
Pulmonary vasodilator responses to nicardipine: comparison with other vasodilators.	To determine the direct effect of nicardipine on the pulmonary vascular bed of the intact-chest, spontaneously breathing cat, and to compare its effectiveness as a pulmonary vasodilator with the effectiveness of isoproterenol, nitroglycerin, and sodium nitroprusside.
Retinal artery occlusion in rabbit eyes using human atheroma.	Previous animal models of central retinal artery occlusion using glass or latex embolic material may not simulate human disease. We have developed a rabbit model using human atherosclerotic material, which may be useful in developing embolus specific treatments, including thrombolysis or laser photodisruption. Fresh human atherosclerotic plaque was harvested from atherosclerotic human aorta by mechanical removal and suspension in normal saline. The suspension was agitated vigorously to produce small particles, which were separated into various sizes by filtration through mesh filters with specific pore sizes. The common carotid artery of the anesthetized rabbit was isolated by neck dissection and cannulated using a modified Seldinger technique. Suspensions of human atherosclerotic plaque were injected into the common carotid artery via this cannula. All animals were examined by slit lamp and fluorescein angiography before and after retinal artery occlusion. This model reliably produced retinal artery occlusion using human atherosclerotic plaque. Plaque particles less than 105 microns reliably produced branch retinal artery occlusion, while larger plaque particles less than 149 microns reliably produced central retinal artery occlusion. Sublingual nitroglycerin, at 0.1 mg/kg, intravenous verapamil, from 0.2 mg/kg to 2 mg/kg, and intracarotid urokinase given acutely in standard doses failed to cause reperfusion. This model will be very useful in the study and treatment of retinal vascular disorders as it may more closely simulate human disease over previous models using artificial embolic materials. Embolic specific treatment stategies, such as thrombolysis and laser photodisruption, may be further developed with this model.
Comparative vasoactive effects of amrinone on systemic and pulmonary arteries in rabbits.	Amrinone has been increasingly used in management of low cardiac output syndrome during anesthesia, particularly when associated with right heart failure and pulmonary hypertension. This in vitro study was performed to determine and compare the direct vasoactive effects of amrinone on isolated rabbit systemic and pulmonary arteries. Responses of aortic and pulmonary artery rings from New Zealand white rabbits were assessed in the presence and absence of intact endothelium and with or without precontraction by norepinephrine (NE, 3 x 10(-6)M) or potassium chloride (KCl, 3 x 10(-2)M). Using a tissue bath preparation, cumulative concentration response curves of amrinone were obtained at different concentrations after a period of stabilization. Amrinone caused a dose-related vasodilation of NE-precontracted aortic and pulmonary arteries. It elicited about 65% and 90% relaxation, respectively, at a concentration of 300 mumol/L. Amrinone also induced a dose-related vasodilation of KCl-precontracted aortic and pulmonary arteries but to a lesser degree. All these effects were endothelium independent. By comparison, amrinone caused more relaxation in both NE- and KCl-precontracted pulmonary artery than aortic rings. In conclusion, amrinone has significant endothelium-independent, direct vasodilatory effects on isolated rabbit systemic and pulmonary arteries, more pronounced in the latter, particularly NE-precontracted vessels. Amrinone may have some calcium channel-blocking effect.
Image analyser as a tool for the study of in vitro glomerular vasoreactivity.	Many drugs used in clinics can dramatically reduce renal hemodynamics. For some years there have been developed in our laboratory two in vitro glomerular models, isolated glomeruli and mesangial cell cultures, to quantitate, by video image analyzer, the direct glomerular effect of vasoreactive agents. The present study shows the vasoconstrictive effects of angiotensin II and cyclosporin in both models and compares their glomerular vasoconstriction with or without vasodilating agents such as verapamil. This drug-induced glomerular vasoreactivity is time- and dose-dependent; moreover, it can be reversible after perfusion in control conditions. The interest of these in vitro glomerular models is validated by fair correlations between in vivo and in vitro data and between the responses of both. These models can be considered as tools for assessing glomerular vasoreactivity of nephrotoxic agents.
Effects of antiischemic drugs on veratridine-induced hypercontracture in rat cardiac myocytes.	The effects of different groups of substances (beta-adrenoceptor antagonists, Ca2+ channel blockers and vasodilators) which are known to have antiischemic properties were studied on veratridine-induced hypercontracture. Veratridine increases Na+ influx by slowing the inactivation process of the Na+ channel, thereby inducing a continuously increased Na+ entry in depolarized cells. Veratridine (6.3 x 10(-6) M) produced a change in cell shape from rod-shape to round, resulting from hypercontracture of cells. Before treatment with veratridine the proportion of rod-shaped cells was 70% and fell to 0% 5 min after the treatment with veratridine. dl-Propranolol, d-propranolol, l-penbutolol, d-penbutolol, nisoldipine, and dilazep all inhibited veratridine-induced hypercontracture dose dependently. In contrast, acebutolol, atenolol, timolol, nifedipine, diltiazem, and nitroglycerin did not inhibit the rounding of cells. Concomitantly with the rounding of cells, the [Ca2+]i was increased by veratridine. dl-Propranolol, d-propranolol and dilazep prevented the increase of [Ca2+]i induced by veratridine, whereas timolol and nitroglycerin did not. These results show that dl-propranolol, d-propranolol, l-penbutolol, d-penbutolol, nisoldipine, and dilazep possess Na+ channel blocking actions on the veratridine-modified Na+ channel, thereby preventing excessive Na+ influx and secondary Ca2+ overload.
Endothelium dysfunction in the coronary circulation.	Coronary artery disease is the most important cause of morbidity and mortality in Western countries. Its pathogenesis is unknown but involves an enhanced vasoconstriction and increased interaction of platelets and monocytes with the vessel wall, as well as proliferation, migration, and extracellular matrix formation of vascular smooth-muscle cells. The endothelium lies in a strategic anatomical position between the circulating blood and vascular smooth-muscle cells. This supports the concept that dysfunction of these cells plays a crucial role in the pathogenesis of coronary artery disease. Endothelial cells are a source of vasodilators such as nitric oxide, prostacyclin, and hyperpolarizing factor. In addition, the cells produce heparin-like substances as well as other molecules with antiproliferative properties. These effects of endothelial cells may explain why platelets and monocytes usually do not adhere at the blood vessel wall and why vascular smooth-muscle cells remain in a vasodilated state and neither migrate nor proliferate. However, under pathological conditions, in particular in the presence of cardiovascular risk factors, endothelial dysfunction occurs and significantly contributes to the increase of platelet-vessel wall interaction, vasoconstriction, and proliferation in the coronary system. Under these conditions, endothelium-dependent vasodilation is reduced and endothelium-dependent constrictor responses are augmented. Furthermore, endothelial cells are also able to produce growth promoters. Hence, endothelial cells are important targets and mediators of coronary artery disease. Therapeutic strategies aimed at improving or preserving endothelial function therefore may be promising in the prevention and treatment of coronary artery disease.
Drug-induced endothelium-dependent and -independent relaxations in isolated resistance vessels taken from simultaneously hypertensive and streptozotocin-diabetic rats.	Hypertension and diabetes mellitus often co-exist and both conditions may be expected to cause synergistic vascular damage. Our group has introduced an animal model for simultaneously occurring hypertension and diabetes mellitus by treating spontaneously hypertensive rats with streptozotocin (STZ). We investigated the drug-induced endothelium-independent and -dependent relaxation in isolated mesenteric small arteries (resistance vessels). Concerning the influence of hypertension, the responses to sodium nitroprusside, methacholine, histamine and nifedipine proved unchanged, the vasodilator response to bradykinin was diminished, whereas that to the K(+)-channel opener cromakalim was enhanced. With respect to the influence of STZ-induced diabetes we found that the responses to sodium nitroprusside, methacholine and nifedipine were unchanged, and that to cromakalim was enhanced, also when the preparations were pretreated with glibenclamide. The responses to histamine (STZ WKY versus control WKY) and bradykinin (STZ SHR versus control SHR) proved enhanced in the isolated vessels taken from diabetic animals. These findings suggest that the influence of the diabetic state is more pronounced than that of hypertension. However, our findings do not indicate that either hypertension or diabetes is associated with generalised endothelial damage in the resistance arteries.
Preservation of the vasodilative effect of endothelium-derived relaxing factor in the hind limb of the rat.	Using an extracorporeal circulatory system of fresh blood, the vasodilative effect of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) secreted from vascular endothelium, stimulated by acetylcholine (ACh), was evaluated. The bioassay cascade technique was applied to elucidate the release of EDRF. Elevated blood pressure of freshly amputated rat hind limbs, created by injection of norepinephrine (NE), decreased by 56% with ACh infusion, suggesting the existence of EDRF in the peripheral vascular system of rat hind limbs. The vasodilative effect of EDRF could be preserved for at least 6 hours when stored at room temperature. The effect of EDRF decreased markedly following storage for more than 9 hours at room temperature and storage for more than 3 hours at 4 degrees C.
Involvement of alpha-adrenoceptors in the excitatory effect of the A2 adenosine receptors agonist 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA) on cardiac automaticity in the isolated right ventricle of the rat.	The effects of the non-selective A2 adenosine receptor agonist 5'-N-ethyl-carboxamidoadenosine (NECA) were studied on ventricular automaticity induced by a local injury in the isolated right ventricle of the rat. In concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 100 nM, NECA significantly increased ventricular automaticity. This effect was not apparent when the nonselective alpha-adrenoceptor blocker phenoxybenzamine was present at a concentration of 10 microM, which antagonizes both alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors, as well as when rats were pretreated with reserpine. In non-reserpinized rats, the excitatory effect of NECA was also abolished in the presence of the selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist prazosin, but not in the presence of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan. In reserpinized rats, the excitatory effect of NECA was restored in the presence of the non specific alpha-adrenoceptor agonist phenylephrine as well as in the presence of the selective alpha 1-adrenoceptor agonist amidephrine but not in the presence of the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine. These results suggest that the excitatory effect of NECA on ectopic ventricular automaticity is dependent on endogenous catecholamines and that alpha-adrenoceptors of type 1 are, in some way, involved in this effect.
A comparison of the relaxant effects of pinacidil in rabbit renal and mesenteric artery.	1. The relaxant effects of pinacidil were compared in isolated rabbit renal and mesenteric artery. 2. Pinacidil (10 nm-300 microM) relaxed renal and mesenteric arterial rings precontracted with phenylephrine with pD2 values of 5.11 +/- 0.03 and 6.27 +/- 0.04, respectively. 3. The inhibitory effect of pinacidil on the rabbit mesenteric artery was competitively antagonized by glibenclamide (1-10 microM). The calculated pKB value was 6.37 +/- 0.04. On the renal artery, glibenclamide (2-20 microM) did not significantly affect pinacidil-induced relaxation (P > 0.05). 4. Tetraethylammonium (TEA, 1-10 mM) competitively antagonized the pincaidil induced relaxation of the rabbit renal artery. The pKB value was 3.22 +/- 0.08. On the mesenteric artery TEA antagonized the effect of pinacidil in a noncompetitive manner. 5. The concentration-response curves for pinacidil on the rabbit renal and mesenteric artery were not affected by apamin (0.1 microM). 6. It is concluded that ATP-sensitive K+ channels (KATP) are not involved in pinacidil action on the rabbit renal artery. On the contrary, KATP are probably major sites of pinacidil action on the rabbit mesenteric artery.
Effect of modifying nitric oxide pathway on liver circulation in a rabbit endotoxin shock model.	The role of nitric oxide (NO) inhibition on liver circulation during sepsis is unknown. To answer this question, we studied the effects of L-arginine (the substrate for the NO synthase), linsidomine (a direct NO donor), and N omega-nitro-L-arginine (an NO inhibitor) on the liver circulation in anesthetized rabbits previously injected with endotoxin (Escherichia coli, Salmonella enteridis, and Salmonella minnesota, 400 micrograms each). After endotoxin administration, and without fluid resuscitation, rabbits showed a hypodynamic shock with decrease in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and aortic blood flow velocity. Portal vein blood flow velocity decreased, whereas hepatic artery blood flow velocity increased. Saline or treatments were injected, 75 min after endotoxin administration. In saline-treated rabbits, MAP, aortic and portal vein blood flow velocities remained steady but hepatic artery blood flow velocity decreased. Only N omega-nitro-L-arginine (7.5 mg/kg, intravenously) significantly increased MAP compared to saline treatment. However, aortic, portal vein, and hepatic artery blood flow velocities were lower in rabbits treated with N omega-nitro-L-arginine than in saline-treated rabbits. L-Arginine (600 mg/kg, intravenously) increased aortic blood flow and portal vein blood flow velocity with no change on hepatic artery blood flow velocity. In contrast, linsidomine (1 mg) increased both hepatic flows. These results show that NO inhibition after endotoxin injection reduces systemic and liver flows, while NO release from linsidomine improves them. These findings question the usefulness of NO inhibition during septic shock, particularly as hepatic failure frequently occurs in the evolution of the disease.
Mechanisms of increased sensitivity to A2 adenosine receptor stimulation in immature rabbit aortic rings.	Adenosine receptor-mediated vasodilation is increased in immature vessels compared to mature vessels. To determine the mechanism of this increased sensitivity, isolated vascular rings from mature and immature rabbits were studied to evaluate the contribution of the endothelium and the contribution of adenosine-dependent 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) to adenosine receptor-mediated relaxation. Dose responses were measured in endothelial-intact and nonendothelialized aortic rings using 5'-(N-ethylcarboxamido)-adenosine (NECA), a nonhydrolyzable adenosine agonist. Immature rings were more sensitive to NECA than mature rings as demonstrated by a lower ED50 and steeper slope of the dose-response curve. There was no effect on endothelial removal in immature rings while there was a significant decrease in response in mature rings. Despite being more sensitive to NECA, immature rings had less increase in cAMP (percent change from basal level) at maximal vasodilation than mature rings although cAMP did not change in either age at the ED50. The lack of change with endothelial removal in immature vessels suggests that the endothelium is not involved in the increased sensitivity of immature rings to NECA. The cAMP data suggests that other mechanisms for vasodilation are important at the ED50 for NECA in both ages. Maximal vasodilation with NECA on the other hand was associated with increases in cAMP although they were lower in the immature rings.
Basic fibroblast growth factor increases cortical blood flow in vivo.	Basic FGF has recently been shown to produce systemic and cerebral vasodilation. To test the hypothesis that bFGF increases regional cortical blood flow (rCBF), rCBF and brain pHi were measured while bFGF or vehicle was superperfused onto the cortex of rabbits. The results of this study demonstrate that topical application of bFGF causes an increase in rCBF.
Rainbow trout ventricular natriuretic peptide: isolation, sequencing, and determination of biological activity.	Ventricular natriuretic peptide (VNP) is a new type of cardiac natriuretic peptide initially isolated from the eel ventricle. VNP has been isolated from cardiac ventricles of the rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss, and found to consist of 35 amino acid residues carrying a C-terminal tail sequence with 14 amino acid residues. Thus, the long C-terminal sequence characteristic of VNP was also conserved in the trout VNP. A VNP with 4 amino acid residues truncated from the C-terminus was also isolated from trout ventricles and sequenced. Sequence identity of trout VNP to eel VNP was 77%; while it was 56% to eel A-type natriuretic peptide (ANP). Trout VNP caused characteristic biphasic vasopressor/depressor effects in the trout similar to those produced by rat and eel ANP. Trout VNP and human ANP were almost equipotent in their vasopressor and depressor activity in trout. Unlike eel VNP, therefore, homologous VNP did not exhibit greater activity in the trout. In the rat, however, trout VNP was more potent than eel peptide and was almost equipotent to human ANP for both vasodepressor and natriuretic effects. The high potency of trout VNP appears to be due in part to its longer-lasting effect compared to human ANP.
Interaction between endothelin and vasodilators in the human internal mammary artery.	1. The internal mammary artery (IMA) is the primary choice as an arterial graft for coronary artery bypass surgery. Endothelin (ET) has been recently measured with an increased release after cardiopulmonary bypass for coronary artery bypass grafting. Threshold concentrations of ET-1 have been found to amplify specifically contractions induced by noradrenaline and serotonin. This study was designed to investigate the effect of glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) and calcium antagonists on ET-1 contraction in the human IMA. 2. Human IMA segments taken from 21 patients undergoing IMA-coronary artery bypass grafting were mounted in an organ bath under the physiological pressure determined from their own length-tension curves. Four ring segments were allocated into four groups. One served as a control and the others were treated with GTN (10, 100 nM, or 30 microM) for 5 min or nifedipine (20 or 200 nM, or 30 microM) for 25 min before concentration-contraction curves to ET-1 were established. In separate experiments, the concentration-relaxation curves to GTN or nifedipine were established in the IMA rings precontracted with ET-1 (10 nM). 3. Pretreatment of IMA with GTN for 5 min did not alter the ET-1-induced contraction. Pretreatment with 20 or 200 nM of nifedipine slightly but not significantly, altered the maximum contraction induced by ET-1. Higher concentrations (30 microM) significantly reduced the maximum contraction force (P = 0.008). On the other hand, GTN caused 76.44 +/- 6.35% relaxation in ET-1-precontracted IMA. In contrast, the nifedipine-induced relaxation was difficult to establish due to unsustained contraction to ET-1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Smooth muscle relaxing effects of NO, nitrosothiols and a nerve-induced relaxing factor released in guinea-pig colon.	1. The aim of the present study was to compare the biological activity of S-nitroso-L-cysteine (CYSNO), S-nitrosoglutathione (GSNO), S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP) and hydroxylamine to that of nitric oxide (NO) and a vascular relaxing factor released by nerve stimulation in the guinea-pig intestine. The biological activity was examined in a bioassay system with guinea-pig colon as donor tissue and a series of spiral strips of rabbit aorta without endothelium as detector tissues. 2. Electrical stimulation of the guinea-pig colon released a vascular relaxing factor. The half-life of the relaxing factor down the bioassay cascade was the same as exogenously applied NO. N omega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG) inhibited the release of bioactivity. 3. The relaxations of the assay tissues caused by exogenous CYSNO also declined during the passage down the cascade. However, in the presence of L-cysteine (10(-5) M) the half-life of CYSNO increased and there was no significant breakdown through the cascade. In contrast, the half-life of applied NO and the vascular relaxing factor released by nerve stimulation was unaffected by the presence of L-cysteine. 4. Exogenously applied GSNO (20-50 nM), SNAP (2-4 nM) and hydroxylamine (300-600 nM) caused relaxations that did not decline during the passage down the cascade. 5. In summary, the relaxation of the bioassay tissues during nerve stimulation was indistinguishable from the relaxation induced by NO, whereas relaxations induced by CYSNO, GSNO, SNAP and hydroxylamine showed different pharmacological profiles. The released bioactivity is thus likely to be NO itself.
Dissociation of castor oil-induced diarrhoea and intestinal mucosal injury in rat: effect of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester.	1. Castor oil (2 ml orally) produced diarrhoea in rats 1-7 h after challenge, which was associated with gross damage to the duodenal and jejunal mucosa. 2. The injury was accompanied by release of acid phosphatase into the gut lumen, indicating cellular injury. 3. Intraperitoneal injection of the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 2.5-50 mg kg-1 twice), prevented the diarrhoea. The dose of L-NAME (50 mg kg-1) completely blocked the diarrhoea but increased the release of acid phosphatase and worsened the gross damage. 4. The NO donating compound, isosorbide-5-mononitrate (IMN, 150 mg kg-1 twice) reversed the effects of L-NAME (50 mg kg-1) on castor oil-induced diarrhoea, gross damage and acid phosphatase release. 5. The apparent dissociation of the diarrhoeal and intestinal mucosal damaging effects of castor oil suggest that NO has a protective effect on the rat duodenal and jejunal mucosa, but that NO mediates, in part, the diarrhoea effect of this laxative.
The effects of a novel vasodilator, LP-805, on cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations and on tension in rabbit isolated femoral arteries.	1. LP-805, 8-tert-butyl-6,7-dihydropyrrolo-[3,2-e]-5-methylpyrazolo- [1,5a]-pyrimidine-3-carbonitrile, is a newly synthesized potent vasodilator. To investigate the cellular mechanisms of vasorelaxation induced by LP-805, we simultaneously determined the effects of LP-805 on cytosolic Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) and on tension of smooth muscle of rabbit femoral arterial strips, with or without the endothelium, using front-surface fluorometry and fura-2. 2. In the absence of the endothelium, LP-805, in a concentration-dependent manner, decreased [Ca2+]i and tension during the contraction induced by K(+)-depolarization, at relatively low concentrations ([K+]o < or = 30 mM). The decreases in [Ca2+]i and tension were fully antagonized by treatment with 2 x 10(-6) M glibenclamide. The [Ca2+]i-tension relationship in the LP-805-induced relaxation was similar to that of K(+)-depolarization-induced contractions. 3. LP-805, in a concentration-dependent manner (IC50 for inhibition of tension; 1.7 x 10(-6) M), decreased both [Ca2+]i and tension during the steady-state of contractions induced by 1 x 10(-7) M noradrenaline (NA) in the strips without the endothelium. Glibenclamide completely inhibited these reductions of [Ca2+]i and tension. At the steady-state of relaxation induced by LP-805 during NA-induced contraction, [Ca2+]i-tension relation was shifted to the left of that obtained with high K(+)-induced contraction. 4. NA induced transient increases in [Ca2+]i and tension in the absence of extracellular Ca2+. LP-805 (up to 3 x 10(-6) M) had no effect on these intracellular Ca2+ mobilisation and tension development induced by NA. 5. In strips with an intact endothelium, LP-805 decreased both [Ca2+]i and tension during contraction induced by 1 x 10(-7) M NA. The concentration-response curve for inhibition of [Ca2+]i and tension obtained in the presence of the endothelium was shifted to the left from that obtained in the absence of endothelium. IC50 for the inhibition of tension obtained in the strips with the endothelium was 4.0 x 10(-7) M. Treatment with 1 x 10(-4) M NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG) attenuated reductions of both [Ca2+]i and tension induced by LP-805 and the concentration-response curve shifted to the right and overlapped that obtained in the absence of the endothelium. Treatment with glibenclamide almost fully overcame the reduction of [Ca2+]i induced by LP-805, while the reversion of tension was 50% at most. 6. In the presence of the endothelium with L-NOARG, LP-805 reduced the tension to the extent of that expected from the reduction of [Ca2'ji, as based on the [Ca2+]i-tension relationship obtained with LP-805 in the absence of endothelium. On the contrary, in the presence of the endothelium without L-NOARG, LP-805 induced a greater reduction of tension than expected from the reduction of [Ca2+J1.This effect became more apparent after treatment with glibenclamide.7. These results suggest that: (1) LP-805 relaxes smooth muscle mainly by activating ATP-sensitive K+channels of smooth muscle and by releasing endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF). (2) Activation of ATP-sensitive K+ channels decrease [Ca2+]i and thereby relax smooth muscle with no effect on Ca2"-sensitivity of the contractile apparatus of smooth muscle or on the agonist-induced Ca2"-release process. (3) EDRF induced by LP-805 relaxes smooth muscle not only by decreasing [Ca2+]i but also decreasing Ca2+-sensitivity of the contractile apparatus of smooth muscle. In the presence of an intact endothelium, a decrease in Ca2+-sensitivity of the contractile apparatus may play an important role in LP-805-induced relaxation.
A1 adenosine receptor inhibition of cyclic AMP formation and radioligand binding in the guinea-pig cerebral cortex.	1. A1 adenosine receptors were investigated by radioligand binding and functional studies in slices and particulate preparations from guinea-pig cerebral cortex. 2. Binding of the adenosine receptor antagonist radioligand, 8-cyclopentyl-[3H]-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) to guinea-pig cerebral cortical membranes exhibited high density (1410 +/- 241 fmol mg-1 protein) and high affinity (Kd 3.8 +/- 0.3 nM). 3. [3H]-DPCPX binding to guinea-pig cerebral cortical membranes was displaced in a monophasic manner by adenosine receptor antagonists with the rank order of affinity (Ki values, nM): DPCPX (6) < xanthine amine congener (XAC, 153) < PD 115,199 (308). 4. Agonist displacement of [3H]-DPCPX binding was biphasic and exhibited the following rank order at the low affinity site (Ki values): 2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyl-adenosine (CCPA, 513 nM) = N6-R-phenylisopropyladenosine (R-PIA, 526 nM) = N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA, 532 nM) < 2-chloroadenosine (2CA, 3.2 microM) = 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA, 4.6 microM) < N6-S-phenylisopropyladenosine (S-PIA, 19.9 microM). 5. In cerebral cortical slices, [3H]-DPCPX binding was displaced by antagonists and agonists in an apparently monophasic manner with the rank order of affinity (Ki values, nM): DPCPX (14) < XAC (45) < R-PIA (266) < PD 115,199 (666) < S-PIA (21000). 6. Cyclic AMP accumulation stimulated by 30 microM forskolin in guinea-pig cerebral cortical slices was inhibited by R-PIA, CCPA and CPA up to 1 microM in a concentration-dependent fashion with IC50 values of 14, 18, and 22 nM, respectively. All three analogues inhibited the forskolin response to a similar extent (82-93% inhibition). NECA, S-PTA and 2CA failed to inhibit the forskolin response, but rather enhanced the accumulation of cyclic AMP at concentrations of 100 nM or greater, presumably through activation of A2b adenosine receptors coupled to stimulation of cyclic AMP accumulation in guinea-pig cerebral cortical slices.7. The inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation by CPA was antagonized with the rank order of affinity (Ki values, nM): DPCPX (6)<XAC (52)<PD 115,199 (505).8 Xanthine-based antagonists inhibited the adenosine receptor augmentation of histamine-induced phosphoinositide turnover in guinea-pig cerebral cortical slices with the rank order of affinity (Ki, nM):DPCPX (12)=XAC (17)<PD 155,199 (640).9 In summary, we observe a good correlation between antagonist affinity at A1 receptors defined by radioligand binding, inhibition of cyclic AMP generation or augmentation of histamine-evoked phosphoinositide turnover in guinea-pig cerebral cortex.
Relaxation by cromakalim and pinacidil of isolated smooth muscle cells from canine coronary artery-multiple sites of action.	Dispersed cells were isolated from the canine coronary artery by enzymatic digestion. Their contraction and relaxation were determined by measuring their length using a video microscaler system. The cells remained structurally intact when examined by Trypan blue exclusion and electron microscopy. The cells showed a concentration-dependent contraction (EC50: 2.3 +/- 0.36 x 10(-12) M) to phenylephrine. The phenylephrine-induced contraction of the intact cells was inhibited by cromakalim (IC50: 1.24 +/- 0.27 x 10(-10) M) and pinacidil (IC50: 6.8 +/- 1.89 x 10(-10) M). The sensitivity of the dispersed cells to cromakalim was approximately 3 orders of magnitude larger than that of the muscle strips (EC50: 1.94 +/- 0.22 x 10(-7) M). Glibenclamide (a selective inhibitor of the ATP-sensitive K+ channel in pancreatic beta-cells) competitively antagonized the cromakalim-induced inhibition of the phenylephrine-contraction in intact cells (pA2:9.12; slope: 1.13) as well as in muscle strips (pA2: 7.84; slope: 0.95). Permeabilized cells were made by a brief exposure of the cells to saponin and were suspended in a buffer medium containing 100 mM KCl and 0.18 microM Ca++. The cells showed a concentration-dependent contraction to phenylephrine (EC50:2.2 +/- 0.40 x 10(-12) M) and inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (EC50: 5.3 +/- 1.05 x 10(-11) M). These contractions were concentration-dependently inhibited by cromakalim and pinacidil. The inhibition by cromakalim of the inositol-induced contraction was markedly antagonized by apamin and, to a lesser extent, by glibenclamide. Thus, it is suggested that cromakalim and pinacidil exert a potent relaxation by acting on multiple sites: the glibenclamide-sensitive K+ channels of the plasma membrane and the intracellular site sensitive to inositol and apamin.
Effects of VA-045, a novel apovincaminic acid derivative, on age-related impairment evidence in electroencephalograph, caudate spindle, a passive avoidance task and cerebral blood flow in rats.	1. The ability of VA-045 to improve aged-related impairment on electroencephalograph (EEG), caudate spindle, performance on a passive avoidance task and cerebral blood flow (CBF) were evaluated in rats. 2. The cortical EEG of the aged rats showed a higher incidence of spontaneous spindle burst (SSB) than seen in young rats. VA-045 decreased the incidence of SSB in aged rats. In contrast, vinpocetine increased the incidence of SSB in aged rats. 3. Electrical stimulation of the striatum in aged rats lead to a higher incidence of neocortical high voltage spindle (CS) than seen in young rats. In young rats, VA-045 had no effect on the CS, whereas an age-related increase in CS was blocked by VA-045, but was enhanced by vinpocetine. 4. There were no differences in the cortical EEG arousal response elicited by stimulation of the reticular formation of the brain stem in rats of all ages. VA-045 and vinpocetine had no effect on the cortical EEG arousal response in both young and aged rats. 5. VA-045, but not vinpocetine, attenuated the age-related decreased step through latency (STL) on a passive avoidance task. VA-045 and vinpocetine did not enhance the acquisition of learning behavior in a passive avoidance task in young rats. 6. VA-045 increased the cerebral blood flow (CBF) in both young and aged rats and the potency in aged rats was greater than that in young rats. Vinpocetine had no effect on CBF in either young or aged rats. 7. The pharmacological effects of VA-045 on age-related neuronal dysfunction are discussed.
Isosorbide 5-mononitrate reverses high blood pressure in NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester treated rats.	1. The present study has evaluated the effect of iosorbide 5-mononitrate (IS-5-MN) and L-arginine on blood pressure profile during chronic administration of the nitric oxide (NO) synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME). 2. After a 7 day period of stabilization, normotensive male Wistar rats (n = 10) were selected and given L-NAME (50 micrograms/ml) in drinking water. Control rats (n = 10) were studied simultaneously for direct comparison of cardiovascular parameters. Blood pressure (systolic, SBP; diastolic, DBP) and heart rate were measured using a photoelectric tail cuff pulse detector; SBP and DBP were, in normotensive rats 106 +/- 2 and 78 +/- 2 mmHg (n = 10), respectively. The average water consumption per animal was about 35 ml/day resulting in a mean intake of L-NAME of about 10 mg/kg/day. 3. Twenty four hours after exposure to L-NAME, both SBP and DBP were found to be increased by 20 mm Hg; heart rate slightly decreased. During the next 13 days both SBP and DBP increased progressively reaching 170 +/- 3 and 116 +/- 3 mm Hg, respectively. 4. On day 14, six animals of either group were sacrificed and the heart, kidneys, liver, spleen, mesenteric and caudal arteries, brain stem, hypothalamus and parietal cortex were taken from determination of noradrenaline and dopamine content; blood from the renal vein was also collected and plasma concentrations of noradrenaline, adrenaline and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylethylglycol (DOPEG) determined.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effect of bisbenzylisoquinoline alkaloids from Mahonia aquifolium on the isolated rat aorta.	1. The extract from roots of Mahonia aquifolium as well as berbamine and oxyacanthine relaxed K(+)-precontracted rat aortal rings with IC50 values of about 20 mumol/l. 2. Relaxation was not inhibited by denudation of the endothelium or by premedication of the aortas with indomethacin, methylene blue or propranolol. 3. Berbamine and oxyacanthine inhibited contractions induced by noradrenaline, phenylephrine and serotonin in a non-competitive manner. Further, they competitively blocked calcium-induced contraction in Ca(2+)-free depolarizing PSS. 4. The blockade of calcium entry appears to be the main mechanism of the dilatory effect of the drugs tested, but their interaction with alpha-adrenoceptors could not be excluded.
Characterization of the prejunctional adenosine receptors in the rat anococcygeus muscle.	Adenosine receptor agonists inhibited electrically-evoked contractions of the rat isolated anococcygeus muscle. The compounds tested were: N6-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA), N((S, trans)-2-hydroxycyclopentyl)adenosine (GR79236), the R- and S-isomers of phenylisopropyladenosine (PIA), 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA), ((2-(4-(2-carboxyethyl)phenyl)ethyl)amino)-N-ethylcarbox-amidoa denosine (CGS 21680) and N-((2-methylphenyl)methyl)adenosine (metrifudil). The rank order of agonist potency was: CPA = R-PIA = GR79236 = NECA >> S-PIA > metrifudil > CGS 21680, which is consistent with an effect mediated by adenosine A1 receptors. A similar rank order of potency was obtained for inhibition of electrically-evoked contractions of the guinea-pig ileum. However, there may be a lower receptor reserve in rat anococcygeus compared with the guinea-pig ileum, since higher concentrations of agonists were necessary to produce effects in the anococcygeus than in the guinea-pig ileum and S-PIA behaved as a partial agonist. The effect of NECA was antagonized in rat anococcygeus and guinea-pig ileum by the mixed A1/A2 receptor antagonist, 8-phenyltheophylline (pA2 values of 6.8 and 6.9, respectively). The selective A1-receptor antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1,3- dipropylxanthine (DPCPX), also blocked the inhibitory response to NECA in both tissues. Here, however, the pA2 values (9.6 and 8.6, respectively) were slightly but significantly different. These values confirm that the prejunctional adenosine receptors of the rat anococcygeus are of the A1 type, and suggest that they are similar but not necessarily identical to those of the guinea-pig ileum. The differing potencies of DPCPX as an antagonist of NECA between the preparations may reflect a tissue-dependent variation in sensitivity to this antagonist.
Inhibitory properties of NIP-121, a potassium channel opener, on high potassium- and norepinephrine-induced contraction and calcium mobilization in rat aorta.	We examined the effects of NIP-121, a potassium channel opener, on KCl- and norepinephrine (NE)-induced contraction, the phasic-contraction under the Ca(2+)-free condition and cytosolic free-Ca2+ mobilization using isolated rat aorta. NIP-121 as well as cromakalim inhibited, in the KCl- and NE-contractions concentration dependently. Glibenclamide, an ATP-sensitive potassium channel blocker, competitively reversed their inhibition. On the other hand, they did not inhibit the phasic-contractions induced by NE in Ca(2+)-free medium. In Fura-2-loaded rat aorta, NIP-121 inhibited only the late phase of the NE-induced cytosolic Ca2+ level ([Ca2+]cyt) increases that were inhibited by nicardipine. However, it did not inhibit the first [Ca2+]cyt increase, which was completely abolished by repeated applications of NE in Ca(2+)-free medium. Neither did it inhibit phorbol ester-induced contraction. The vasorelaxant mechanism of NIP-121 is attributable to the decrease in Ca2+ influx passing through the membrane Ca2+ permeable systems. In addition, inhibition of Ca2+ release from sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) and of protein kinase C (PKC) activation may not be involved in vasorelaxation induced by NIP-121.
Potassium channel openers relax A23187-induced nifedipine-resistant contraction of rat aorta.	We investigated the vasorelaxant mechanisms of three potassium channel openers (PCOs: NIP-121, cromakalim, and nicorandil) using rat aortic strips precontracted with calcium ionophore A23187. A23187 (10(-6) M)-induced contraction was fully relaxed by NIP-121, cromakalim, and nicorandil, but not by the calcium channel blocker nifedipine. The effective concentration range and potency of these relaxant effects were the same as those previously reported for relaxation caused by potassium channel opening in the presence of 30 mM K+ or for relaxation of agonist-induced contraction. Relaxation induced by NIP-121 or cromakalim was competitively antagonized by glibenclamide, with apparent pA2 values for NIP-121 and cromakalim of 7.28 and 7.47, respectively. However, these PCOs did not relax A23187-induced contraction in the presence of 50 mM K+ and 10(-6) M nifedipine. These PCOs but not nifedipine significantly inhibited calcium-induced contraction in the presence of A23187 (10(-6)M). NIP-121, cromakalim, and nicorandil induced full relaxation of A23187-precontracted arteries, which might be attributable (partially for nicorandil) to their potassium channel opening activity. This relaxant effect might be related to inhibition of A23187-induced calcium influx resulting from opening of glibenclamide-sensitive potassium channels.
Protective effects of ATP-sensitive potassium-channel openers in experimental myocardial ischemia.	Adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-sensitive potassium channels (KATP) exist in cardiac tissue and a potential role in the pathogenesis of myocardial ischemia was hypothesized early after their discovery. Studies in in vitro models of myocardial ischemia and reperfusion have indicated that KATP openers, as a class, exert protective effects. This has been assessed by determination of recovery of contractile function, inhibition of contracture, or inhibition of necrosis. This protective effect appears to be exerted directly on the myocardium and is not dependent on peripheral or coronary dilator activities. These protective effects are uniformly abolished by blockers of KATP. The protective effects of KATP openers are accompanied by a conservation of myocardial energy during ischemia, and this occurs despite a relative lack of cardiodepressant effects. In vivo studies have shown more variable results with some investigators showing efficacy and others not showing efficacy. The lack of efficacy for some investigators may be related to the potent vasodilator activity of the KATP openers used. Efficacy for KATP openers has been shown in canine models of infarction and stunned myocardium. KATP blockers also appear to abolish the protective effects of KATP openers in these models. Future work on KATP openers is focused on the determination of the molecular mechanism of action for the cardioprotective effects of these agents, development of tissue selectivity, and the importance of action potential shortening in mediating cardioprotection.
Cerebral vascular smooth muscle potassium channels and their possible role in the management of vasospasm.	One of the promising therapeutic uses of the potassium channel openers is in the management of cerebral vasospasm, a prolonged vasoconstriction of major cerebral arteries which follows aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. In this review, we first summarize the properties of potassium channels in cerebral vascular smooth muscle. Calcium-activated and ATP-dependent potassium channels are the major potassium channels identified in the cerebrovascular smooth muscle and both are believed to play a role in the regulation of cerebrovascular smooth muscle tone. The calcium-activated potassium channels can be activated by depolarization, by elevation of internal calcium and by some vasodilators. Some neuropeptides and potassium channel openers open the ATP-dependent potassium channels and produce vasodilation. We then review the effects of both synthetic and endogenous potassium channel openers in the cerebrovascular system, discuss their efficacy in the management of models of cerebrovascular spasm, and outline the clinical promise of these agents.
The effect of vasoactive preparations on the systemic and cerebral hemodynamics and on the blood rheological properties in patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency with a background of an atherosclerotic lesion of the precerebral arteries]	Vasoactive preparations (cavinton, corinfar, phinoptin, pentoxyphylline and sermion) were studied for their effect on systemic and cerebral hemodynamics in 232 patients with cerebrovascular insufficiency in the presence of atherosclerotic lesion of the precerebral arteries, and for that on rheologic properties of blood in 91 of them. It has been established that the highest effect from the use of calcium antagonists and sermion with respect of the blood flow linear velocity (BFLV) increase occurs predominantly in stenotic precerebral arteries; the normalization of the platelet-erythrocyte homeostasis is also considerably influenced by these. Calcium antagonists and sermion are capable of lowering arterial pressure, diminishing the volume of circulating blood and cardiac index thereby making for more economic heart performance. Cavinton has only minor effects on systemic hemodynamics, slightly increases BFLV reduces the extent of the erythrocyte aggregation only. Pentoxyphylline has a positive effect on normalization of platelet and erythrocyte homeostasis, reduces blood viscosity and does not influence the parameters of systemic hemodynamics, only slightly increases the linear velocity of the bloodflow in the precerebral arteries. Recommendations on the use of the preparations studied are presented.
Interactions of cAMP-mediated vasodilators with angiotensin II in rat kidney during hypertension.	In previous studies [C. Chatziantoniou and W.J. Arendshorst. Am. J. Physiol. 263 (Renal Fluid Electrolyte Physiol. 32): F573-F580, 1992], we reported that vasodilator prostaglandins (PGs) are defective in buffering the angiotensin II (ANG II)-induced vasoconstriction in the renal vasculature of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR). The purpose of the present study was to determine whether this defect in SHR kidneys is specific to PGs or generalized to the action of vasodilators and to gain insight into which intracellular signal(s) mediates this abnormality. Renal blood flow (RBF; electromagnetic flowmetry) was measured in 7 wk-old anesthetized, euvolemic SHR and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats pretreated with indomethacin to avoid interactions with endogenous PGs. ANG II (2 ng) was injected into the renal artery before and during continuous intrarenal infusion of fenoldopam [DA1 receptor agonist and G protein-dependent stimulator of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP)], forskolin (G protein-independent stimulator of cAMP), dibutyryl-cAMP (soluble cAMP), and acetylcholine (cGMP stimulator). Each vasodilator was infused at a low dose that did not affect baseline arterial pressure or RBF. In the control period, ANG II reduced RBF by 50% in both strains. Infusion of fenoldopam significantly blunted the ANG II-induced vasoconstriction in WKY, but not in SHR. In contrast, forskolin, dibutyryl-cAMP, and acetylcholine effectively buffered the vasoconstriction due to ANG II in both SHR and WKY. These results suggest that renal vasodilators acting through receptor binding to stimulate the cAMP signaling pathway are ineffective in counteracting the ANG II-induced vasoconstriction in SHR kidneys. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Contraction induced either by iso-osmolar or hyper-osmolar potassium-rich solutions influences relaxant responses to pinacidil and verapamil in rat isolated aorta.	Relaxant responses of pinacidil and verapamil were studied in rat isolated aorta contracted by either iso-osmolar or hyper-osmolar potassium-rich solutions. Relaxant response profiles of pinacidil and verapamil in rat isolated aorta contracted by 124 mM K+ hyper-osmolar Krebs solutions showed marked reductions in inhibiting Emax values and substantial increases in corresponding IC50 values in comparison with results obtained at iso-osmolar conditions. Changes in the slopes of the fitted log concentration-relaxation curves were also observed, whereas pinacidil relaxation curves obtained after initial contraction induced by 30 mM K+ Krebs solutions were only slightly influenced by osmolarity, a definite decrease in Emax occurred for verapamil at hyper-osmolar conditions. Initial tension development was much slower and maximal tension lower when induced by 124 mM K+ in hyper-osmolar compared with iso-osmolar Krebs solutions. After incubation in Ca(2+)-deprived EGTA-containing Krebs solutions the maximal tension produced by 124 mM K+ iso-osmolar Krebs solution in rat aorta was nearly 95% reduced, whereas it was only reduced by 50% at hyper-osmolar conditions. Hyper-osmolarity as established by direct addition of potassium chloride to Krebs solutions in order to induce contraction in vascular smooth muscle could influence the in-vitro action profile, potency and intrinsic activity of the two vascular relaxant drugs.
Effect of dietary protein on the renal response to fenoldopam in diabetic rats.	The effect of the dopamine D1 receptor agonist, fenoldopam, was studied in streptozotocin-induced diabetic rats treated with insulin to maintain a moderate hyperglycemia and fed a low, normal or high protein diet. Fenoldopam at 1 microgram/kg per min i.v. resulted in a significant increase in both glomerular filtration rate (GFR) and renal blood flow (RBF) in diabetic rats fed a normal protein diet. In rats fed a low protein diet, fenoldopam failed to alter either parameter, however, there was a very significant increase in both GFR and RBF in diabetic rats fed a high protein diet. Since diabetes is associated with a decrease in both urinary dopamine excretion as well as the hyperemic response to protein ingestion, it is possible that stimulation of dopamine D1 receptors by fenoldopam restores renal functional reserve in diabetic animals. The observation that the dopamine D1 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, at a dose (1 microgram/kg per min) that abolished the renal vasodilator effects of fenoldopam, failed to alter renal hemodynamics in diabetic rats suggests that endogenous dopamine has little effect.
Vascular relaxing mechanism of denopamine in isolated canine coronary, femoral, mesenteric, and renal arteries.	We investigated the mechanism of vascular relaxation produced by denopamine (deno), an oral positive inotropic agent that has selective beta 1-adrenergic action. Deno concentration-dependently (0.1 microM-30 microM) relaxed ring segments of canine femoral, mesenteric, and renal arteries which were partially precontracted with 1 micron phenylephrine or norepinephrine, but did not relax those precontracted with 5 microM prostaglandin F2 alpha or 40 mM K+. The relaxation was not significantly inhibited by pretreatment with 10 microM propranolol or metoprolol. Deno produced a parallel rightward shift in concentration-response curves to phenylephrine in femoral and renal arteries. The Schild plot yielded linear regressions of slopes of 1.301 +/- 0.106 and 0.823 +/- 0.122, respectively, which were not significantly different from unity. The pA2 values of Deno against phenylephrine in femoral and renal arteries were 5.41 +/- 0.03 and 5.76 +/- 0.06, respectively. On the other hand, Deno concentration-dependently (10 nM-10 microM) relaxed ring segments of canine coronary arteries which were partially precontracted with 5 microM prostaglandin F2 alpha. The relaxation was significantly inhibited by pretreatment with 10 microM metoprolol. In conclusion, vascular smooth muscle relaxation by Deno was mediated through beta 1-adrenergic action in canine coronary arteries and through the blocking effect of alpha-adrenoceptors in canine femoral, mesenteric, and renal arteries.
Effect of dopexamine hydrochloride on contractions of rabbit isolated aorta evoked by various agonists.	The inhibitory affinity of dopexamine hydrochloride to postsynaptic adrenoceptors, cholinoceptors, 5-hydroxytryptamine and histamine receptors was studied in rabbit isolated aorta. Dopexamine (10(-7)-10(-5) M) antagonized competitively the contractions of rabbit aorta evoked by noradrenaline (pA2: 6.60). Neither cocaine plus corticosterone nor cocaine, corticosterone plus propranolol altered the inhibition (pA2: 6.77 and 6.63, respectively). The antagonism of dopexamine against noradrenaline-evoked contractions was the same after 1 and 4 hr of pretreatment with dopexamine. In the presence of cocaine plus corticosterone, dopexamine antagonized the contractions evoked by phenylephrine (pA2: 6.94). Removal of endothelium did not influence this antagonism (pA2: 7.06). Dopexamine (10(-7)-10(-5) M) did not antagonize the contractions of aorta evoked by histamine (3 x 10(-7)-6 x 10(-5) M) and by 5-hydroxytryptamine (3 x 10(-7)-3 x 10(-4) M). Dopexamine (10(-8 and 10(-7) M) did not alter the contractions of endothelium-free aorta evoked by carbachol. Dopexamine (10(-7)-10(-5) M) slightly enhanced the contractions of aorta evoked by potassium (10(-2)-5.5 x 10(-2) M). These results suggest that dopexamine is an alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist. Furthermore, dopexamine has no affinity to cholinoceptors, histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT2) receptors and is apparently not a calcium antagonist.
Functional ontogeny of pulmonary vascular DA1 dopamine receptors in the isolated perfused rabbit lung.	Using an in situ isolated salt-perfused rabbit lung preparation, we investigated the functional ontogeny of pulmonary vascular dopamine receptors. In rabbits from 1 to 23 d of age, we measured pulmonary vascular vasodilatory responses to the peripheral vascular dopamine receptor (DA1) agonist, fenoldopam, and sodium nitroprusside during prostaglandin F2 alpha-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction. In separate experiments, the lungs were pretreated with the DA1 receptor blocker, SCH 23390, before prostaglandin F2 alpha, fenoldopam, and sodium nitroprusside. Lungs from rabbits at one of 6 age groups (n = 6-8 per group) were ventilated and perfused. After a stabilization period, prostaglandin F2 alpha was infused into the pulmonary inflow catheter in a concentration range to yield a sustained rise in mean pulmonary artery pressure (4.9 +/- 0.2 mm Hg). Fenoldopam was injected into the pulmonary artery at doses of 0.01, 0.1, 1.0, and 10 micrograms/g after a recovery period, sodium nitroprusside (0.2 micrograms/g) was injected into the pulmonary artery, and the resultant changes in vascular pressure were recorded. Across all age groups, with and without DA1 receptor blockade, sodium nitroprusside-induced vasodilation was similar (-2.7 +/- 0.2 mm Hg) and was considered reference vasodilation. The fenoldopam vasodilation response was considered a percentage of the sodium nitroprusside reference. Response to fenoldopam varied significantly (p < 0.05 by analysis of variance) across the six age groups, with a maximum at 3-5 d of age. Pretreatment with SCH 23390, a selective DA1-blocking agent, significantly attenuated fenoldopam vasodilation in all but the youngest animals (age 0-2 d), in which no blockade effect was noted.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Carvedilol, a new vasodilating beta adrenoceptor blocker antihypertensive drug, protects endothelial cells from damage initiated by xanthine-xanthine oxidase and neutrophils.	Oxygen radical mediated endothelial injury plays an important role in cardiovascular disease. Carvedilol, a new beta blocker and antihypertensive agent, has been shown to have antioxidant activity. The aim of this study was to determine whether carvedilol protects oxygen radical induced endothelial injury.
Effects of scoparone on hemodynamics in anesthetized rabbits]	The effects of scoparone (Sco), tetramethylpyrazine (TMP), and papaverine (Pap) on hemodynamics were compared in anesthetized rabbits. Three dosage levels (1.25, 2.5, 5 mg.kg-1, iv) were used for each agent. Sco lowered the blood pressure (BP), increased the cerebral blood flow (CBF) dose-dependently, but did not show significant influence on the femoral artery blood flow (FBF), the maximal decrease of BP, and the maximal increases of CBF being 15% and 20% of the control, respectively. In contrast, TMP raised the BP as well as increased the CBF and FBF simultaneously. Pap, however, lowered the BP, slightly increased the CBF and decreased the FBF only at large doses. The results suggested that Sco may cause a selective dilatation of cerebral blood vessels.
EDRF/NO and endothelial functions]	Our appreciation of the vascular endothelium has changed considerably over the last decade. This organ, finally recognized as such, participates actively in vasomotor regulation and haemostasis. It secretes several relaxing and contracting factors which act locally to determine resting vascular tone. One of the relaxing factors, EDRF/NO plays an important physiological role as it contributes to the rapid adaptation of blood flow to various pharmacological and mechanical stimuli, thereby ensuring maintenance of adequate tissue perfusion. Nitric oxide (NO) is an ubiquitous factor which was crowned "molecule of the year 1992" by the scientific review Science. Its effects extend well beyond those on the cardiovascular system. Endothelial dysfunction is observed in many pathological states such as atherosclerosis, reperfusion injury, postangioplasty endothelial regeneration, degeneration of venous bypass grafts, pure spastic angina, hypertension and diabetes. It is associated with decreased production of EDRF/NO, which probably contributes significantly to the aggravation of endothelial and parietal lesions and to the natural progression of atherosclerotic disease in general. This article describes the principal vasoactive factors secreted by the endothelium and goes on to list the physiologic cardiovascular effects of EDRF/NO in detail, and to review the different pathologies associated with a disorder of secretion of this factor.
Mechanical performance and coronary flow adjustments to changes in workload are not affected by inhibiting nitric oxide production in isolated working rat heart.	The importance of NO-induced vasodilator tone in maintaining adequate coronary flow to sustain hemodynamic function in aerobic heart and the role of endothelial release of NO in reactive hyperemia was studied in isolated working and Langendorff perfused rat heart, respectively. Raising the preload from 0 to 20 cm H2O caused a linear increase in coronary flow, myocardial oxygen consumption (MVO2) and cardiac output in the untreated working hearts and in the hearts in which basal release of NO has been inhibited by NG-monomethyl L-arginine (L-NMMA, 200 microM). L-NMMA, but not L-arginine, reduced coronary flow by 48% and 21.5% at preload levels of 0 and 20 cm H2O, respectively. A steeper coronary flow/preload relation and an increased O2 extraction in L-NMMA treated hearts allowed for the fact that their MVO2, lactate release and cardiac output were not significantly different from those in the untreated hearts at any of the preload level tested. SIN-1, 10 microM, augmented coronary flow to 136% and 107% at preload levels of 0 and 20 cm H2O, respectively, indicating that coronary vascular reserve was preserved at all preloads tested. L-NMMA-treatment greatly reduced reactive hyperemia following 30 s occlusion period and it significantly increased hyperemia following 10 min occlusion period. These findings provide evidence that while the inhibition of NO synthesis reduces coronary flow it does not induce a state of ischemia in isolated rat heart.
Role of endothelium-derived relaxing factor on vascular reactivity in endotoxin-induced shock.	Role of endothelium-derived relaxing factor on vascular reactivity in endotoxin-induced shock. Chinese J. Physiol. The present study showed that E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 5 mg/kg, i.v.) produced a maximal and significant reduction in mean arterial blood pressure in the anesthetized rat. Pretreatment with N omega-nitro-L-arginine (50 mg/kg, i.v.) produced an increase in mean arterial blood pressure and completely abolished the LPS-induced hypotension. In vitro, it was designed to analyse the mechanisms underlying the LPS-induced hypotension by using various contractile and relaxant agents. Phenylephrine and high-K(+)-induced contraction was less in mesenteric arterial rings from LPS-treated rats than in rings from control rats. The removal of endothelium significantly enhanced the contraction induced by phenylephrine and high-K+ in LPS-treated rats, whereas in control rats, only the contraction induced by phenylephrine was enhanced. In contrast, the relaxation elicited by acetylcholine, A23187, L-arginine and nitroglycerin was greater in mesenteric arterial rings from LPS-treated rats than those from control rats. However, the greater relaxation induced by acetylcholine in LPS-treated rats was completely abolished by N omega-nitro-L-arginine or methylene blue. Additionally, the acetylcholine-induced relaxation was absent by removal of the endothelium. These results suggest that LPS treatment induces the production of nitric oxide from vascular endothelial cells and/or smooth muscle cells then impair the contractile response to vasoconstrictors and enhance the relaxation to vasodilators in small mesenteric arteries.
Stretch-induced contraction and Ca2+ mobilization in vascular smooth muscle.	The vascular system is receptive to both chemical and physical factors, and these factors elicit subsequent cellular responses such as contraction and relaxation. Quick stretch applied to cerebral and coronary arteries produces myogenic contraction by mobilization of at least two Ca2+ components, i.e., transmembrane influx and release from intracellular storage sites of Ca2+. The mechanical reception is more susceptible than pharmacological reception to chemical skinning, suggesting the importance of membrane lipids as a mechanosensor domain. Phospholipase C coupled to a cholera toxin- or pertussis toxin-insensitive GTP-binding protein, possibly a G4 class one, may play a role in the genesis of vascular contraction in response to stretch. Activation of protein kinase C may affect more strongly the maintenance phase of stretch-induced contraction through the change in Ca2+ sensitivity of the contractile elements. The contractile reaction of vascular tissue to mechanical force such as stretch is a kind of physical response and thus requires cellular signal transduction, which may be mediated through a receptive site specific for a mechanical stimulus and the pathways of Ca2+ signaling that are common to pharmacological agonists.
TxA2-PGI2-PGF2 alfa responses in the kidney to blood pressure reduction induced by vasodilator/vasorelaxing agents with different action in patients with essential hypertension.	In blood pressure (BP) reduction induced by gallopamil, hydralazine and prazosin in patients with essential hypertension a common trend was found in renal prostanoid production which included increased TxB2 excretion and/or augmented TxB2/6-keto-PGF1alfa ratio and, with the exception of response to prazosin, enhanced PGF2alfa excretion. Role of direct biochemical actions by the drugs in these responses was excluded by in vitro experiments with kidney slices from rats. The clinical and in vitro experimental findings suggested a mediator role of sympathetic activation but not that of the increased renin release in the urinary eicosanoid responses. Significant correlation was observed between the changes in reabsorbed amounts of sodium and excreted amounts of TxB2 and PGF2alfa. The results suggest that the reactivity of pressure type prostanoids in the kidney could be considered as part of a more complex renal counteraction to BP decrease.
Nitrovasodilator effects on intraocular pressure and outflow facility in monkeys.	The nitrovasodilators nitroglycerin (NTG) and hydralazine (HZN) were investigated for their effects on intraocular pressure (IOP) and outflow facility in the cynomolgus monkey eye in vivo. Fifty microliters of 0.1% HZN were administered topically in masked, randomized, crossover, placebo controlled trials, and by intracameral perfusion. Both NTG and HZN decreased IOP (mean IOP decrease with NTG 4.40 +/- 2.11 (S.E.M.) (+/- 4.7, S.D.) mmHg, P < 0.01, n = 5, with HZN 3.15 +/- 0.85 (S.E.M.) (+/- 2.3, S.D.) mmHg, P = 0.01, n = 7). Outflow facility increased by 92% (P < 0.05) after intracameral bolus injection of 10(-3) mol l-1 NTG, but not at lower doses. Intracameral HZN caused a significant increase in facility of outflow of 28% (P < 0.05) when perfused at a constant concentration of 10(-5) mol l-1, but not at certain other concentrations. These results demonstrate the capacity for topically applied NTG and HZN to reduce IOP in the living primate eye. They further suggest that, at certain drug doses, but not others, the IOP reduction may be mediated, in part, by an action on the outflow apparatus.
Serotonin relaxes porcine pial veins.	The effect of serotonin [5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)] on pial venous tone of the pig was examined using in vitro tissue bath techniques. Isolated pial venous rings exhibited spontaneous rhythmic contractions (SRC) on mechanical stretching and/or applications of several vasoactive substances, including norepinephrine. On the other hand, KCl induced sustained active muscle tone (SAT) without SRC. The SRC induced by mechanical stretching were not affected by tetrodotoxin, nitro-L-arginine, alpha- and beta-adrenergic, histaminergic, and muscarinic receptor antagonists, indicating that the SRC in porcine pial veins are of myogenic origin. The SRC induced by stretching or applications of vasoactive substances and SAT induced by KCl were inhibited by 5-HT in a concentration-dependent manner. The inhibition was prevented by methysergide and methiothepin but not by ketanserin, propranolol, 3 alpha-tropanyl-1H-indole-3-carboxylic acid ester, hemoglobin, or nitro-L-arginine. The SRC and SAT were inhibited by 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT), 8-hydroxy-2-di-N-propylaminotetralin HBr (8-OHDPAT), 1-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]piperazine (TFMPP), and 5-methoxytryptamine (5-MT), but not by sumatriptan, alpha-methylserotonin, or 2-methylserotonin. On the other hand, 5-CT, 8-OHDPAT, TFMPP, 5-MT, and sumatriptan constricted the porcine pial arteries exclusively. In 15% of pial venous preparations examined, 5-HT at low concentrations induced ketanserin-sensitive constrictions. These results indicate that the porcine pial venous smooth muscle contains multiple subtypes of 5-HT receptors. The 5-HT inhibition of SRC and SAT is predominant and is mediated by 5-HT1-like receptors, which, however, do not seem to correspond to 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B, 5-HT1C, 5-HT1D, 5-HT1E, or 5-HT1F receptor subtypes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
S-nitrosothiol modulation of tolerance to glyceryl trinitrate in bovine isolated coronary artery.	The aim of the study was to ascertain whether induction of tolerance to glyceryl trinitrate (GTN) was modified by nitrosothiols. Vasodilator responses to GTN and to two nitrosothiols, namely S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) and S-nitroso-N-acetylcaptopril (SNOCAP) were measured in bovine coronary artery rings constricted with the thromboxane mimetic agent U46619. Pre-exposure of vessels to SNAP (10 microM) for 1 h resulted in cross-tolerance to GTN comparable with tolerance induced by GTN (1.0 microM). Tolerance was increased after pre-exposure to both agents. SNAP alone in lower concentrations (0.01, 0.1 and 1.0 microM) did not produce cross tolerance to GTN, but in combination with GTN (1.0 microM) caused a small but significant decrease in tolerance to GTN. This attenuating effect of SNAP on GTN tolerance was reproduced by SNOCAP (0.01 microM). We conclude that the nitrosothiols exert a biphasic effect on induction of tolerance to GTN.
Effects of hypotensive drugs on the function of red blood cell]	The shift of oxygen dissociation curve (ODC) and the function of red blood cell after the administration of hypotensive drugs prostaglandin E1 (PGE1), nicardipine (NIC), nitroglycerin, (TNG) were studied in 30 patients in whom mastectomy was performed. The author measured blood gases, blood sugar, L/P, ATP, the deformability of red blood cell, 2,3-DPG, and P50 in patients who had intravenous administration of low dose of PGE1 (0.05-0.1 microgram.kg-1 x min-1, n = 10), NIC (1.0-5.0 micrograms.kg-1 x min-1, n = 10) and TNG (0.5-1.0 microgram.kg-1 x min-1, n = 10). During the administration of these hypotensive drugs, A-aDO2 and blood sugar increased, but pH and L/P were unchanged. The deformability of red blood cell improved, and 2,3-DPG as well as P50 increased significantly after the administration of PGE1. PGE1, NIC, and TNG are all effective and safe drugs for hypotensive anesthesia. In particular, from the viewpoint of the function of red blood cell, it seems that PGE1 improves oxygen supply into tissues by improving deformability of red blood cell and by increasing P50.
Resting state block and use independence of rat vascular muscle Ca++ channels by Ro 40-5967.	Blocking actions of the novel Ca++ antagonist, Ro 40-5967 ((1S,2S)-2-[2[[3-(2-benzimidazolylpropyl] methylamino]ethyl]-6-fluoro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-1-isopropyl-2-++naphthyl+ ++ methoxyacetate dihydrochloride), on divalent inward currents were characterized in spontaneously active vascular muscle cells (VMC) of neonatal rat azygos veins. Ca++ channel currents (ICa) were reduced by Ro 40-5967 in a concentration range from 0.1 to 10 microM, effective within the first 5 min of exposure. ICa were decreased by up to 70% during the first stimulus test pulse and remained constant during subsequent pulses, and were not shifted along the voltage axis, as determined by peak current-voltage plots. There was no change in apparent threshold or the voltage (+20 mV) at which maximum inward current occurred. Block of Ba++ currents through VMC Ca++ channels occurred independent of membrane potential, even when holding potential was as negative as -80 mV. ICa were blocked to the same absolute values from holding potential = -30 mV. Thus, ICa block occurred equally during the first pulse and at all subsequent time points, i.e., under conditions in which VMC Ca++ channels were in the resting state, inactive state, or open state. To search further for use-dependent effects of Ro 40-5967, we stimulated at higher frequencies (up to 0.3/sec), but there was no change in fractional block with frequency or stimulus repetition and thus no use dependence of the block of VMC Ca++ channels by Ro 40-5967.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Adenosine: differential effect on blood flow to subregions of the upper gastrointestinal tract.	The potential of adenosine to regulate organ blood flow (ml/min/100 g tissue) in the intact rabbit upper alimentary tract was evaluated using the radioactive microsphere technique. Adenosine (1.0 mumole/kg/min) produced significant, greater than threefold increases in esophageal mucosal blood flow (37 +/- 2 to 127 +/- 47) and threefold increases in antral mucosal (39 +/- 3 to 144 +/- 24) and transmural small intestinal blood flow (duodenum, 60 +/- 13 to 187 +/- 22; jejunum, 42 +/- 3 to 138 +/- 16; ileum, 27 +/- 2 to 80 +/- 22). Inosine did not reproduce these effects. P1-purinergic receptor antagonism with theophylline blocked the effects of adenosine. 5'-(N-Ethylcarboxamido)adenosine, an agonist of A2-subtype, P1-purinergic receptors, increased gastrointestinal organ blood flow similarly to adenosine with nmole/kg/min doses. Similar doses of the A1-subtype agonist, N5-cyclohexyladenosine, were ineffective, but mumole/kg/min doses produced small effects on esophageal mucosa and ileum. Our results indicate that in rabbit alimentary organs, adenosine preferentially increases blood flow to esophageal mucosa, antral mucosa, and small intestine. Its effects are mediated by the A2-subtype of P1-purinergic receptors.
Enhancement of endothelium dependent relaxation in the rat aortic ring by selenium supplement.	The aim was to examine the effect of selenium supplement on endothelium dependent relaxation in rat aortic rings.
Role of single photon emission tomography (SPECT) in the exploration of cerebral ischemia]	Cerebral functional imaging has been greatly improved over the last ten years by the development of noninvasive techniques using radioactive elements emitting gamma radiation. Depending on the radioactive tracer used, these single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) techniques provide either simple imaging of the distribution of local blood flows (99m Tc or 131 I labelled molecules) or quantitative imaging of the cerebral regional blood flow (133 Xe). Because of the rapidity of these techniques and the possibility of performing repeated examinations associated with dynamic test, quantitative measurement of cerebral blood flow with 133 Xe constitutes a value investigation for cerebral ischaemia by defining the site of the lesions, the distant consequences, the haemodynamic disturbances and their course over time. It has an even more important place in the preoperative assessment of stenoses and thromboses of the supra-aortic vessels and intracranial vessels: the study of the haemodynamic reserve by induced vasodilatation (injection of acetazolamide or acetazolamide test) provides valuable information necessary for the decision to perform a revascularisation procedure. In the future, 133 Xe SPECT will certainly be useful for determining the prognosis of an ischaemic cerebral vascular accident by means of very early examinations and to demonstrate the efficacy of new treatments for cerebral ischaemia by means of repeated examinations.
Contraction uncoupling with butanedione monoxime versus low calcium or high potassium solutions on flow and contractile function of isolated hearts after prolonged hypothermic perfusion.	Normal ionic perfusate containing butanedione monoxime (BDM), a reversible myofilament inhibitor, could be better than either a high potassium (KCl) or a low calcium (CaCl2) perfusate for long-term cardiac preservation. This hypothesis was tested in 70 isolated guinea pig hearts.
Protecting the gut and the liver in the critically ill: effects of dopexamine.	To measure the clinical effects of dopexamine on systemic and splanchnic perfusion in critically ill patients.
Effects of vasoactive substances on the pig isolated hepatic lymph vessels.	The present study examined the responses of isolated pig hepatic lymph vessels to vasoactive substances, the classification of alpha adrenoceptors and the mode of action of acetylcholine (ACh) with special reference to the lymphatic endothelial cells. Contractions of the hepatic lymph vessels were induced by norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine, prostaglandin F2 alpha, histamine and 5-hydroxytryptamine in a dose-dependent manner. NE was the most potent vasoconstrictor agent. 5-bromo-6[2-imidazolin-2-ylamino]-quinoxaline, xylazine and clonidine also produced dose-dependent contractions. NE-induced contractions were inhibited significantly by yohimbine (10(-8)-10(-6) M) but not by prazosin (10(-8)-10(-6) M). Pretreatment with yohimbine (10(-8)-10(-7) M) or rauwolscine (10(-8)-10(-7) M) caused a parallel shift to the right of the dose-response curve for 5-bromo-6[2-imidazolin-2-ylamino]-quinoxaline. These results suggest that the NE-induced contraction in pig hepatic lymph vessels seems to be mediated mainly through stimulation of alpha-2 adrenoceptors. ACh, isoproterenol, histamine, 5-hydroxytryptamine, ATP and adenosine caused dose-dependent relaxations in the hepatic lymph vessels precontracted by 5 x 10(-6) M prostaglandin F2 alpha. ACh was the most potent vasorelaxant agent. Pretreatment with atropine (10(-9)-10(-7) M) inhibited the ACh-induced relaxation in a competitive manner. Removal of endothelium caused a significant reduction of the ACh-induced relaxation. The ACh-induced relaxation was suppressed by pretreatment with N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (3 x 10(-5) M) and methylene blue (10(-5) M) but was unaffected by aspirin (10(-5) M).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Protective effect of carvedilol on renal circulation and tissue injury in reperfusion of ischemic kidneys in rats]	In one-kidney rats the resting blood flow in the renal artery was recorded for 10 minutes then the artery was clipped for one hour and the following reperfusion blood flow was registered again for 10 minutes. The animals were divided into three groups: Series A, untreated control animals. Series B, two weeks before renal ischemia the rats were fed a diet containing 0.1% of BM-14.190, a derivate of carvedilol. Series C the rats received a diet with 0.1% of carvedilol. The resting renal blood flow was 4.58 +/- 0.13 ml/min (x +/- S.E.M.) in series A whereas 6.36 +/- 0.41 ml/min. in series B and 5.87 +/- 0.59 ml/min. in series C (p < 0.01), also the reperfusion blood flow in series B and C was significantly higher (p < 0.01) i.e. 3.65 +/- 0.25 ml/min. and 3.08 +/- 0.33 ml/min. respectively than in series A, 1.08 +/- 0.13 ml/min. The ischemia and the ensuing reperfusion elicited in series A serious injury, especially in renal proximal tubules and their reticulin skeleton whereas the renal injury in series B and C was of a markedly lesser degree. Carvedilol and its derivate BM-14.190 possess beside vasodilatory potency and alpha- and beta-adrenoceptor blocking activity a potent scavenger property. This may be the cause of the protective effect preventing the ischemia and reperfusion injury in the renal tissue.
Indomethacin-sensitive CO2 reactivity of cerebral arterioles is restored by vasodilator prostaglandin.	To investigate the role of vasodilator prostanoids in the CO2-induced relaxation of cerebral arterioles, the present study examined the effect of exogenous prostaglandin (PG) E2 and nonprostanoid vasodilators, adenosine and sodium nitroprusside, on the indomethacin-impaired pial arteriolar response to CO2 in newborn piglets. Reactivity of pial arterioles (52-131 microns diam) was determined using a closed cranial window with intravital microscopy. Cortical prostanoid synthesis was assessed by analyzing for select prostanoids in cerebrospinal fluid sampled from under the cranial window. Inhalation of 7% CO2 caused an elevation of cortical 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and thromboxane (Tx) B2 and increased pial arteriolar diameter by 34 +/- 5%. Two cyclooxygenase inhibitors, indomethacin (5 mg/kg i.v.) and ibuprofen (30 mg/kg i.v.), abolished the CO2-induced elevation of cortical prostanoids. Indomethacin, but not ibuprofen, blocked the CO2-induced increase in pial arteriolar diameter. The indomethacin-impaired vasodilator response to CO2 was restored when PGE2 (0.1-1 microM) was applied topically to the cortical surface. Adenosine (1-100 microM) and sodium nitroprusside (0.5 microM) only partially restored the vasodilator response to CO2. The data suggest that vasodilator prostanoids facilitate cerebrovascular relaxation to CO2 and may play a permissive role in the relaxation response of vascular smooth muscle. The fact that adenosine (adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate-mediated dilator) and sodium nitroprusside (guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate-mediated dilator), were partially effective suggests a role for those intracellular signaling pathways. We speculate that receptor activation of intracellular pathways may alter Ca2+ sensitivity of the contractile apparatus in such a way that the relaxation response to CO2 can occur.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of nitrate therapy on ventricular remodeling and function.	The hypothesis that nitrates might effectively limit left ventricular remodeling and improve function after acute myocardial infarction has been tested in experimental and clinical models, with special attention to the pathophysiologic evolution of remodeling. In 1 clinical study, before the thrombolytic era, the effects of low-dose intravenous nitroglycerin infusion for the first 48 hours during acute myocardial infarction was evaluated in a prospective, randomized, single-blinded, placebo-controlled study of 310 patients (154 nitroglycerin; 156 placebo). Nitroglycerin proved to be safe and produced several benefits compared with placebo: (1) smaller infarct size; (2) less left ventricular dysfunction; (3) less infarct expansion and thinning; (4) better functional status; (5) fewer in-hospital complications such as left ventricular failure, left ventricular thrombus, cardiogenic shock, and infarct extension; and (6) fewer deaths up to 1 year. Two subsequent clinical studies in the thrombolytic era, with low-dose intravenous nitroglycerin infusion during infarction over the first 48 hours followed by buccal nitrate (eccentric dose regimen) or placebo during healing over 6 weeks postinfarction, indicated that prolonged nitrate therapy effectively limited left ventricular remodeling and improved function further compared with placebo.
Dilator effect of endothelins in pulmonary circulation: changes associated with chronic hypoxia.	To investigate dilator effects of endothelins (ETs) on the pulmonary circulation and possible changes induced by chronic hypoxia, we examined vascular responses to ET-1 and ET-3 as well as ET binding to receptor subtypes ETA and ETB in the lungs from rats exposed to either room air (controls), hypoxia (10% O2) for 3 wk (3 WH), or 3 WH followed by recovery to room air (3 WH+R). In controls, both ETA and ETB receptor binding was present in smooth muscle of airways and vessels. Infusion of ET-1 or ET-3 (3-100 pM) to isolated perfused lungs preconstricted by U-46619 produced dose-dependent vasodilation with a greater potency of ET-3 (P < 0.01). The vasodilator responses to ET-1 and ET-3 were potentiated by the cyclooxygenase blocker meclofenamate (3 x 10(-6) M) or by the thromboxane synthetase inhibitor R-68070. In meclofenamate-treated lungs, the vasodilator responses to ET-1 and ET-3 remained unaffected by the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthesis, NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (5 x 10(-4) M) or by the guanylate cyclase inhibitor, methylene blue (10(-4) M). Conversely, the K+ channel blockers glibenclamide (10(-4) M) and tetraethylammonium (10(-4) M) attenuated the vasodilator responses to both ET-1 and ET-3. The selective ETA receptor antagonist BQ-123 did not alter ET-induced vasodilation, whereas it attenuated ET-induced vasoconstriction. Vasodilation to both ET-1 and ET-3 was abolished in lungs from 3 WH rats (P < 0.01) but was fully restored in lungs from 3 WH+R rats. Pulmonary vasodilation induced by the K+ channel opener pinacidil, which was suppressed by glibenclamide, did not differ between controls and 3 WH rat lungs. We found no change in ETA and ETB receptor binding from pulmonary vessels in H rat lungs compared with controls. In conclusion, endothelin-induced pulmonary vasodilation which may involve activation of K+ channels is abolished during chronic hypoxia. This abolition does not appear to be related to alterations in ET-receptor subtypes or to unresponsiveness of K+ channels in the pulmonary circulation.
Relaxation by calcitonin gene-related peptide may involve activation of K+ channels in the human uterine artery.	The vasodilatory role of calcitonin gene-related peptide in activating K+ channels was examined in isolated, suffused human uterine arteries. Calcitonin gene-related peptide produced a concentration-dependent relaxation of norepinephrine (1 microM)-induced contractions. Calcitonin gene-related peptide was antagonized by glybenclamide (1-100 microM), an inhibitor of ATP-sensitive K+ channels, but not by tetraethylammonium (1 mM), an inhibitor of calcium(2+)-activated K+ channels. Glybenclamide (10 microM) produced a 6.7 fold and an 11-fold shift to the right of calcitonin gene-related peptide (0.1 to 100 nM) in uterine arteries from pregnant patients (n = 3) and nonpregnant patients (n = 6), respectively. Calcitonin gene-related peptide (10 nM) less effectively (P < 0.05) relaxed contractions produced by KCl (50 mM) (29.4 +/- 1.6%) than by norepinephrine and glybenclamide (10 microM) did not reverse this relaxation (22.2 +/- 6.8%, n = 4 nonpregnant patients). Pinacidil (1 microM), an ATP-sensitive K+ channel opener, relaxed norepinephrine-induced contractions of uterine arteries. Glybenclamide (10 microM) also antagonized pinacidil. These results suggest that calcitonin gene-related peptide relaxes norepinephrine-contracted human uterine arteries, at least in part, by activation of a K+ channel, perhaps of the ATP-sensitive type.
Effects of KRN2391, a novel vasodilator, on pancreatic exocrine secretion in anesthetized dogs.	The effects of KRN2391, a newly synthesized vasodilator, on pancreatic exocrine secretion in anesthetized dogs were compared with those of Ki3315, pinacidil and nitroprusside. Graded doses of KRN2391 (0.03-3 mumol/kg) and nitroprusside (0.003-0.3 mumol/kg) injected i.a. produced dose-dependent increases in the secretion of pancreatic juice, with a high concentration of protein and low concentration of bicarbonate, but Ki3315 or pinacidil did not (up to 10 mumol/kg). KRN2391 and nitroprusside increased the cyclic GMP levels in pancreatic tissue together with the increase in pancreatic secretion. Methylene blue decreased pancreatic secretion and cyclic GMP levels stimulated by KRN2391 and nitroprusside, but glibenclamide did not. KRN2391, Ki3315, pinacidil and nitroprusside caused vasodilator actions. These results suggest that KRN2391 has direct secretory properties on pancreatic exocrine glands of the dog and its nitro moiety has an important role in the stimulation of pancreatic secretion, but the K+ channel opening action or increasing of blood flow rate does not participate in the secretion.
Implications of nitric oxide in the action of cytoprotective drugs on gastric mucosa.	Cytoprotective drugs, including sucralfate, colloidal bismuth (De-Nol), aluminium-containing antacids (Maalox), carbenoxolone-like agents (sofalcone), and stable PGE2 analogues (nocloprost), are known to prevent acute gastric mucosal damage induced by topical irritants. This effect is usually accompanied by an elevation in mucosal blood flow. Recently, nitric oxide (NO), a potent vasorelaxant, has been implicated in gastroprotection by carbenoxolone, the prototype of cytoprotective drugs. In this study we assessed the involvement of NO in acute gastric damage induced by ethanol and in the prevention of this damage by sucralfate, Maalox, De-Nol, sofalcone, and nocloprost. Each of these drugs dose-dependently reduced the formation of ethanol-induced gastric lesions. The optimal gastroprotective dose was used in further studies to check the possible contribution of NO in this protection. Pretreatment with NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) (12.5-50 mg/kg i.v.), an inhibitor of NO synthase, dose-dependently enhanced the mucosal damage by ethanol itself and reduced the protective effects of sucralfate and Maalox but not those of sofalcone, De-Nol or nocloprost against the ethanol injury. Reduction by L-NNA of the mucosa-protective action of sucralfate or Maalox was accompanied by a decrease in gastric blood flow, which was antagonized by L-arginine (a substrate of NO synthase) but not by D-arginine. This study suggest that gastroprotective agents such sucralfate and Maalox, but not sofalcone or De-Nol, activate the NO system that may contribute to mucosal integrity and preservation of mucosal microcirculation.
Effects of two vasodilatory phosphodiesterase inhibitors on bradykinin-induced permeability increase in the hamster cheek pouch.	Two inhibitors with selective effect on cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases (PDEs, preferentially hydrolyzing cAMP), milrinone (cGMP-inhibited PDE) and rolipram (cAMP-specific PDE) were studied for their effects on bradykinin-induced plasma leakage in comparison with the beta 2-receptor stimulant terbutaline. The dilation of arterioles induced by milrinone and rolipram was studied in the concentration range 10(-7)-10(-4) M. Maximal arteriolar dilation was 53% for milrinone at 10(-4) M and 28% for rolipram at 10(-4) M. The hamster cheek pouch preparation was used as prepared for intravital microscopy of fluorescein-labelled dextran, FITC-dextran. Bradykinin was applied topically to the cheek pouch at a final concentration of 4 x 10(-7) M and caused rapid and reversible increase in plasma leakage (number of leakage sites) from postcapillary venules. Milrinone (M), rolipram (R) and terbutaline (T) were also applied topically starting 5 min prior to bradykinin application and at final concentration of 10(-4) and 10(-5) M (M), 10(-5) and 10(-6) M (R) and 10(-7) M (T). These local concentrations resulted in significant (p < 0.05) and reversible inhibition of the bradykinin-induced response by 44% and 33% (M), 77% and 67% (R) and 46% (T). Combining M and R individually with T resulted in a significantly larger inhibition of the bradykinin response than with each of the drugs given separately.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
NO is more important than PGI2 in maintaining low vascular tone in feto-placental vessels.	The endothelial cells of the human umbilical artery and vein release the vasodilators prostacyclin [prostaglandin (PG) I2] and nitric oxide (NO). However, the role of these two substances in the maintenance of vasodilator tone in the feto-placental circulation is not known. Studies were therefore undertaken to compare the relative release of PGI2 and NO from perfused segments (10 cm) of endothelium-intact human umbilical artery (HUA) and vein (HUV) utilizing the cascade bioassay. The endothelium-denuded bovine pulmonary arterial strip was used as the detector tissue because this tissue relaxes equally to various concentrations of PGI2 and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillimine (SNAP), which acts by releasing NO. The basal release of NO from the HUA was approximately five times greater than that of PGI2. After stimulation with A-23187, the release of NO from HUV was five to six times greater, and from the HUA, the release was three times greater compared with the PGI2. SNAP was significantly more potent compared with PGI2 in relaxing endothelium-denuded rings of human umbilical and chorionic plate arteries in vitro. These studies suggest that NO is more important than PGI2 for maintenance of low vascular tone in feto-placental vessels, because there is a greater release of NO from the HUA and HUV, and NO is more potent in relaxing endothelium-denuded feto-placental vessels in vitro relative to PGI2.
CD-832, a new dihydropyridine derivative with both nitrate-like and Ca2+ channel antagonist vasodilator activities.	We investigated the effects of CD-832 ((4R)-(-)-2-(nicotinoylamino)ethyl 3-nitroxypropyl 1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-4,3-nitrophenyl, 3,5-pyridine dicarboxylate), a new dihydropyridine derivative with nitrate ester, on contraction and relaxation responses induced by various vasoactive agents in rabbit aorta. CD-832 potently inhibited the specific binding of [3H](+)-PN200-110 to rat brain membranes. The IC50 values for [3](+)-PN200-110 binding were 2.8 nM and 4.9 nM in CD-832 and nifedipine, respectively. CD-832 (10(-8) to 10(-5) M), diltiazem (10(-8) to 10(-5) M) and benidipine (10(-8) to 10(-5) M) inhibited the 64 mM KCl-induced contraction of the aortic strips in a concentration-dependent manner. Neither nitroglycerin (10(-8) to 10(-5) M) nor nicorandil (10(-8) to 10(-5) M) affected the 64 mM KCl-induced contraction in rabbit aorta. CD-832 (10(-8) to 10(-5) M), nitroglycerin (10(-8) to 10(-5) M) and nicorandil (10(-5) M) had no effect on norepinephrine-induced contraction in rabbit aorta. Nitroglycerin (10(-5) M), atrial natriuretic peptide (10(-8) M), nicorandil (10(-5) M) and CD-832 (10(-7) to 10(-5) M) augmented the isoproterenol-induced relaxation responses of rabbit aorta precontracted with endothelin-1 (1 x 10(-7) to 2 x 10(-7) M). The effects of nitroglycerin (10(-5) M), nicorandil (10(-5) M) and CD-832 (10(-5) M) on isoproterenol-induced relaxation responses were antagonized by treatment with methylene blue (10(-5) M) and oxyhemoglobin (10(-5) M).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Effects of pyrimidines on the guinea-pig coronary vasculature.	1. The effects of the pyrimidines, uridine 5'-triphosphate (UTP), thymidine 5'-triphosphate (TTP) and cytidine 5'-triphosphate (CTP), were examined in the guinea-pig coronary bed, by use of a Langendorff technique. Comparisons were made with the actions of the purines adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), inosine 5'-triphosphate (ITP) and guanosine 5'-triphosphate (GTP). The effect of, the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NG-nitroarginine methyl ester (L-NAME) and, the prostaglandin synthesis inhibitor, indomethacin on the vasodilator response to these purines and pyrimidines was examined. The effects of these inhibitors were assessed on their ability to inhibit both the amplitude and the area of the vasodilator response. 2. The relative order of potency of the purines and pyrimidines studied was ATP > UTP > ITP >> GTP, TTP, CTP. 3. The maximum amplitude and area of the vasodilator response to the pyrimidines, UTP (5 x 10(-10)-5 x 10(-7) mol), TTP (5 x 10(-8)-5 x 10(-7) mol) and CTP (5 x 10(-7) mol), and purines, ITP (5 x 10(-9)-5 x 10(-7) mol) and GTP (5 x 10(-8)-5 x 10(-7) mol), were significantly reduced by L-NAME (3 x 10(-5) and 10(-4) M). 4. The inhibition of the response to ATP (5 x 10-8 mol), UTP (5 x 10-8 mol), ITP (5 x 10-8 mol), TTP(5 x 10-7 mol), CTP (5 x 10- mol) and GTP (5 x 10- mol) by L-NAME (3 x 10-5 M) was significantly reversed by L-arginine (1.5 x 10-3 M).5. L-NAME (3 x 10-5 and 10-4 M) only inhibited the amplitude of the vasodilator response to a low dose of ATP (5 x 10-mol), although the area of vasodilator response to ATP(5 x 10-11-5 x 10-7 mol) was significantly reduced by L-NAME (3 x 10-5 and 10-4 M).6. The maximum amplitude of the vasodilator response to ATP (5 x 10-10-5 x 10-7 mol) was significantly reduced by indomethacin (10-6 M), although the area of the vasodilator response to ATP was only significantly reduced at one intermediate dose (5 x 10-9 mol). Indomethacin (10-6 M) did not affect the maximum amplitude or area of the vasodilator responses to UTP (5 x 10-11-5 x 10-7 mol),ITP (5 x 10-10-5 x 10-7 mol), CTP (5 x 10-7 mol), TTP (5 x 10-8-5 x 10-7 mol) and GTP(5 x 10-8-5 x 10-7 mol).7. It is concluded that in the guinea-pig coronary vasculature, the vasodilatation evoked by the pyrimidines, UTP, TTP and CTP, was mediated in large part via nitric oxide, as were the vasodilatations evoked by the purines ITP and GTP. The vasodilatations evoked by ATP, however, appear to involve prostanoids in addition to the release of nitric oxide.
Effects of the novel potassium channel opener, UR-8225, on contractile responses in rat isolated smooth muscle.	1. The effects of UR-8225 [(1,2-dihydro-4-(1,2-dihydro-2-oxo-1-pyridyl)-2,2-dimethyl-1-oxonapht halen-6- carbonitrile)] and levcromakalim were studied on the electrical and contractile responses induced by noradrenaline and KCl and on 86Rb+ efflux in rat aortic rings and on spontaneous mechanical activity in rat portal vein segments. 2. UR-8225 and levcromakalim, 10(-9) M-10(-5) M, relaxed the contractile responses induced by noradrenaline (IC50 = 2.7 +/- 0.4 x 10(-6) M and 6.6 +/- 1.3 x 10(-7) M, respectively) or 30 mM KCl (IC50 = 1.4 +/- 0.2 x 10(-7) M and 9.4 +/- 1.3 x 10(-8) M, respectively) more effectively than those induced by 80 mM KCl. The relaxant effect on noradrenaline-induced contractions was independent of the presence or absence of functional endothelium. 3. The vasorelaxant effect of UR-8225 and levcromakalim can be competitively antagonized by glibenclamide, an ATP-sensitive K+ channel blocker. There were no differences in the calculated pA2 values for glibenclamide to inhibit UR-8225- and levcromakalim-induced relaxations (7.61 +/- 0.08 and 7.69 +/- 0.10, respectively). The slope of the Schild plot yielded values not significantly different from unity (0.95 +/- 0.06 and 0.96 +/- 0.05, respectively). 4. UR-8225 (10(-5) M) hyperpolarized the resting aortic membrane potential from -50.7 +/- 0.7 mV to -66.0 +/- 2.0 mV and stimulated 86Rb+ efflux. 5. UR-8225 and levcromakalim inhibited the contractions induced by Ca2+ in aortae incubated in Ca(2+)-free PSS containing methoxyverapamil in the presence of noradrenaline. 6. Both drugs inhibited the amplitude of spontaneous activity in portal veins (IC50 = 5.1 +/- 1.4 x 10-8 M and 1.5 +/- 0.7 x 10-8 M, respectively), this effect being competitively antagonized by glibenclamide.7. These results indicated that UR-8225 exhibited qualitatively similar, but slightly less potent,vasorelaxant effects than those exerted by levcromakalim, which suggests that they can be related to its ability to activate ATP-sensitive K+ channels in vascular smooth muscle cells.
Regional and cardiac haemodynamic effects of NG, NG,dimethyl-L-arginine and their reversibility by vasodilators in conscious rats.	1. A series of experiments was carried out on 3 separate groups of male Long Evans rats, chronically instrumented for the measurement of regional haemodynamics, to compare the effects of NG,NG, dimethyl-L-arginine (ADMA) and NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA), and their reversibility by the nitric oxide donors, S-nitroso-N-acetyl-penicillamine (SNAP), S-nitroso-glutathione (SNOG), sodium nitroprusside (SNP), and the vasodilator, hydralazine. 2. As previously reported for L-NMMA, ADMA (1-100 mg kg-1) caused dose-dependent pressor and bradycardic effects, accompanied by renal, mesenteric and hindquarters vasoconstrictions. The magnitude and duration of these effects were similar for ADMA and L-NMMA, consistent with their being equipotent inhibitors of nitric oxide synthase. 3. Infusion of SNAP or SNOG (300 micrograms kg-1 h-1) after injection of ADMA or L-NMMA (100 mg kg-1) reversed the pressor but did not abolish the vasoconstrictor, effects of ADMA or L-NMMA. However, a higher dose of SNAP (3 mg kg-1 h-1) caused complete reversal of the pressor and mesenteric haemodynamic effects of ADMA (100 mg kg-1), although its renal and hindquarters vasoconstrictor effects were not abolished. 4. Infusion of SNP (300 micrograms kg-1 h-1) after administration of L-NMMA (100 mg kg-1), caused complete reversal of its pressor and mesenteric and hindquarters haemodynamic effects, and reduced substantially its renal vasoconstrictor action; hydralazine (7.5 mg kg-1 h-1) was almost as effective as SNP in reversing all these variables. 5. In animals chronically instrumented for the measurement of cardiac haemodynamics, ADMA(100 mg kg-1) caused a pressor effect accompanied by a rise in central venous pressure, and reductions in heart rate, cardiac index, stroke index, peak aortic flow, maximum rate of rise of aortic flow and total peripheral conductance. The reversal of the pressor effect of ADMA by SNAP (300 microg kg-1 h-1) was accompanied by a reduction of central venous pressure below resting levels and a further diminution of stroke index; all other variables showed an increase, but they still remained below resting levels (with the exception of heart rate).6. Thus, following inhibition of NO synthesis, pharmacological intervention with NO donors, or other vasodilators, may cause normalisation of the mean arterial pressure without necessarily returning all associated cardiovascular variables to normal.
Effect of common vasodilators on lung microvascular permeability.	The effect of papaverine on the albumin permeability-surface area product (PS), reflection coefficient (sigma), and capillary filtration coefficient (Kf) was examined in isolated rabbit lungs. Because PS and Kf are functions of vascular surface area and permeability, we also compared papaverine with two other means of maximizing lung surface area: isoproterenol (1 x 10(-7) M) and a mild increase in vascular pressure. Only lungs perfused with 0.1 mg/ml papaverine were significantly different from control. PS increased from control (2.80 +/- 0.16 to 5.53 +/- 0.20 ml.min-1.g dry lung-1 x 10(-2), whereas sigma decreased from control (0.92 +/- 0.01 to 0.78 +/- 0.03). Kf after papaverine was significantly lower than baseline predrug Kf (5.60 +/- 0.78 to 4.56 +/- 0.53 ml.s-1.cmH2O-1.g dry lung-1 x 10(-3). However, this group's predrug Kf was higher than that of any other group. Our results indicate that papaverine increases albumin permeability and decreases endothelial selectivity. The isolated perfused lung appears fully recruited, because Kf and PS did not increase with isoproterenol or increased vascular pressure. Papaverine should be used with caution in the Ringer-perfused lung.
Stonustoxin: a highly potent endothelium-dependent vasorelaxant in the rat.	Stonefish venom has been documented to cause marked hypotension and respiratory difficulties in envenomed animals. Stonustoxin, a lethal protein recently isolated from the venom of the stonefish Synanceja horrida produced hypotension and, at concentrations above 20 micrograms/kg, death in anaesthetized rats, with no observable effects on nerve-evoked twitches of the tibialis and diaphragm muscles. Stonustoxin (20-160 ng/ml) induced endothelium-dependent relaxations of rat thoracic aortae precontracted with noradrenaline. Higher concentrations induced relaxations followed by contractions. Methylene blue, haemoglobin and the specific NO-synthase inhibitor L-NG-nitro arginine methyl ester inhibited stonustoxin-induced relaxations, while the cyclooxygenase inhibitor indomethacin was without effect. The results of the present study show that stonustoxin causes marked vasorelaxation of the rat isolated aorta, which appears to be due to the release of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (probably nitric oxide or nitric oxide-yielding substances) from the vascular endothelium, and this may be responsible for the in vivo hypotensive and lethal actions of stonustoxin and of stonefish venom.
Is urapidil a venodilator?]	This study aimed to assess and compare the effects of urapidil and clonidine on right ventricular volumes and function in 20 physical status ASA III patients, with a borderline untreated essential hypertension and with or without chronic coronary artery disease. The patients were randomly assigned to two equal groups to receive either urapidil (0.4 mg.kg-1) or clonidine (2.5 micrograms.kg-1). Neither patient had congestive heart failure, valvular heart disease, previous myocardial infarction, nor was any being treated with beta-blocking agents or with amiodarone. Usual anti-anginal medication (nifedipine and isosorbide) was maintained up to the time of the procedure. Monitoring was obtained from ECG, Swan-Ganz catheter fitted out with a fast response-thermistor, and radial artery cannula. Blood samples were withdrawn for plasma atrial natriuretic factor determination. Thirty minutes after catheter insertion, baseline data were collected in supine and 45 degrees head-up tilt positions. Following urapidil or clonidine i.v. injection, three series of measurements (3, 8 and 13 min) were made in supine and tilt positions according to a randomized sequence. The two groups were similar with regard to age, weight, height, coronary artery disease and treatment. Urapidil and clonidine elicited a similar decrease in mean arterial pressure of 14% in supine position and 20% in head-up tilt position, combined with an exclusive decrease in systolic index i.e. not associated with a change in peripheral vascular resistances. Despite the decrease in arterial pressure, heart rate remained unchanged. Right ventricular ejection fraction was maintained after both urapidil and clonidine, however end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes decreased, with no modification by tilting.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Vasoactive hormones and autocrine activation of capillary exchange barrier function.	Capillary barrier function is subject to changes in Starling forces via hemodynamic status (hydrostatic pressure) or protein milieu of fluids bathing the wall (oncotic pressure). Venular function is sensitive to inflammatory mediators leading to white cell sticking, fluid and formed element extravasation, and flow disruption. Thus, we hypothesized that vasoactive hormones and autocrines alter preferentially the venular-capillary (VC) barrier. Hydraulic conductivity (Lp) of frog mesenteric venular- and true-capillaries (TC) was measured by the modified-Landis technique under control (LpC), then during atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP, 10(-7) to 10(-8) M), bradykinin (BKN, 10(-7) M), acetylcholine (ACh, 10(-6) to 10(-5) M), angiotensin II (AII, 10(-7) M), or norepinephrine (NE, 10(-6) M) perfusion. All agents, except AII or NE, elevated Lp: LpANP/LpC = 2.9 +/- 0.3 (mean +/- SEM; (n = 55), LpBKN/LpC = 3.3 +/- 0.8 (n = 16), LpACh/LpC = 1.6 +/- 0.1 (n = 26), LpAII/LpC = 1.1 +/- 0.2 (n = 8), and LpNE/LpC = 1.1 +/- 0.2 (n = 9). Contrary to our hypothesis, VC and TC responded similarly: 3.0 versus 2.9 for ANP, 3.4 versus 3.2 for BKN, and 1.6 versus 1.6 for ACh, respectively. These data are consistent with putative vasodilators lowering capillary barrier resistance independent from changes in Starling forces.
Endothelium dependent relaxation in two different models of chronic heart failure and the effect of ibopamine.	The purpose was to relate endothelium dependent relaxation to neurohumoral and haemodynamic changes in rats with chronic heart failure.
Characterisation of the effect of oxygen tension on response of fetal rabbit ductus arteriosus to vasodilators.	The aims of the study were (1) to elucidate the effects of raised oxygen tension on the response of the ductus arteriosus to a range of vasodilators; and (2) to establish the effect, if any, of cyclo-oxygenase inhibition on the interaction between oxygen and prostaglandin (PG)E2.
D-1 dopamine receptors mediate dopamine-induced pancreatic exocrine secretion in anesthetized dogs.	Characterization of dopamine (DA) receptor subtypes was examined on the canine exocrine pancreas using selective DA receptor agonists and antagonists in anesthetized dogs. Each drug was injected i.a. in a single bolus fashion. Graded doses of DA (0.01-3 mumol) produced dose-dependent increases in the secretory rate of pancreatic juice, with a maximum effect at approximately 1 mumol. SCH23390 (3-30 nmol), a selective D-1 DA receptor antagonist, caused a progressive parallel shift to the right in the dose-response curve for DA-induced pancreatic secretion without changes in the maximal response. However, domperidone (3 mumol), a selective D-2 DA receptor antagonist, did not antagonize the DA-induced pancreatic exocrine secretion. A Schild analysis of the data indicates that the inhibitory constant value for SCH23390 to inhibit DA-stimulated secretion was 6.9 nmol. In addition, the stimulatory effects of SKF38393 (0.1-10 mumol) and YM435 (0.3-30 nmol), selective D-1 DA receptor agonists, and LY171555 (1-10 mumol), a selective D-2 DA receptor agonist, on pancreatic secretion were demonstrated. The rank order of agonist potency was YM435 > DA > SKF38393 >> LY171555. These results suggest that DA-induced pancreatic exocrine secretion is mediated by activation of D-1 DA receptors.
Experimental studies of some microrheological factors in serious brain ischemia after stobadine pretreatment.	Serious brain ischemia was induced by occlusion of cerebral arteries in dogs. The occlusion time was 7 min. The blood was collected at various intervals of reperfusion (5, 60, 180, 240 min and 24 h). Thirty minutes before ischemization, stobadine was given (1, 2, or 5 mg/kg). The changes of erythrocyte membrane fluidity were evaluated using colloid-osmotic hemolysis induced by brilliant cresyl blue. In the control group (without stobadine) the colloid-osmotic hemolysis was significantly increased immediately after ischemization and after 5 and 60 min. However, after 240 min of reperfusion, a significant decrease of hemolysis was observed. The increase of colloid-osmotic hemolysis after ischemization in the control group was prevented after stobadine pretreatment. The thrombotization of microcirculation that was observed in the control group was not present after stobadine pretreatment.
Effect of a combination of pentoxifylline and nimodipine on lipid peroxidation in postischemic rat brain.	The authors studied the effects of a combination of pentoxifylline and nimodipine on cerebral lipid peroxidation in postischemic rat brain. Pentoxifylline (40 mg/kg) and nimodipine (3 mg/kg) were administered per os 30 min before 5 min of ischemia (four-vessel occlusion model of transient ischemia). The extent of peroxidation in brain tissue (cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum) was then estimated by assay of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS). The concentration of TBARS was significantly lower in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of the group treated with the combination of drugs than in untreated ischemic rats. However, this concentration was not significantly different from that found in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus of other groups premedicated with nimodipine or pentoxifylline alone. The tested drugs had no effect on TBARS in the striatum. The hypothesis that the combination of drugs would have a synergistic effect on postischemic lipid peroxidation was therefore not confirmed.
The effects of prostaglandin E1 and epidural anesthesia on peripheral blood flow]	We compared the effects of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) and epidural anesthesia on peripheral blood flow by laser Doppler tissue flowmetry during lower abdominal surgery. Epidural anesthesia increased the blood flow of the toe, where the sympathetic nerve supply is of the same spinal cord segments as that of pelvic organs. On the other hand, PGE1 could not prevent the decrease of the blood flow of the toe, but increased that of the index finger, which did not receive the nociceptive stimuli from operative site. Thus, the use of epidural anesthesia together with PGE1 is considered to be effective to increase peripheral blood flow.
Dietary L-arginine attenuates blood pressure in mineralocorticoid-salt hypertensive rats.	The present study was designed to investigate the influence of dietary L-arginine supplementation on blood pressure and on ex vivo vascular reactivity in mineralocorticoid-salt (DOCA-salt) hypertensive rats. Systolic blood pressure and heart rate were determined throughout the experimental period in unanaesthetized rats. Plasma and urine electrolyte levels were measured. Vasoconstrictor response to noradrenaline and vasodilator responses to acetylcholine and sodium nitroprusside were evaluated in the isolated perfused mesenteric vascular bed. DOCA-salt hypertensive rats were divided into 2 groups: a control group and a treated group receiving 0.8% L-arginine supplementation in drinking water. Dietary L-arginine supplementation attenuated systolic blood pressure in conscious DOCA-salt hypertensive rats, but did not modify heart rate. Plasma calcium and sodium concentrations and urinary magnesium excretion were decreased by L-arginine supplementation. Noradrenaline-induced vasoconstriction decreased and acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation increased, whereas sodium nitroprusside-induced vasodilatation was not modified, in the L-arginine-supplemented rats. It is concluded that dietary L-arginine supplementation in the diet lowers systolic blood pressure in DOCA-salt hypertensive rats, probably through vascular action.
Volatile and intravenous anesthetics selectively attenuate the release of endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor elicited by bradykinin in the coronary microcirculation.	In addition to nitric oxide (NO) and prostacyclin (PGI2) another endothelium-derived factor, which hyperpolarizes vascular smooth muscle cell via activation of K+ channels, contributes to the vasorelaxant effect of bradykinin in different vascular beds. Preliminary findings suggest that this endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF)-mediated vasodilatation is attenuated by both volatile and intravenous anesthetics. Since EDHF may play an important role in the coronary microcirculation, we investigated the effects of isoflurane (2 vol.% equivalent to approximately 250 microM), etomidate (30 and 100 microM), phenobarbital (100 microM) and thiopental (30 and 100 microM) on the EDHF-mediated dilator response to bradykinin and on the endothelium-independent dilatation evoked by sodium nitroprusside (SNP) in the isolated saline-perfused rat heart (Langendorff preparation). None of the anesthetics tested affected the dilator response to bradykinin or SNP under basal conditions. However, following inhibition of NO and PGI2 formation with NG-nitro-L-arginine (100 microM) and diclofenac (1 microM) respectively, isoflurane, etomidate and thiopental, but not phenobarbital, significantly attenuated the NO/PGI2-independent, i.e. EDHF-mediated dilator response to bradykinin, while the vasorelaxant effect of SNP remained unaffected. Isoflurane, etomidate and thiopental, but not phenobarbital, display cytochrome P450-inhibiting properties, suggesting that these anesthetics impair the cytochrome P450-dependent synthesis of EDHF in the coronary microcirculation.
Comparison of the effects of nicorandil, pinacidil and nitroglycerin on hypoxic and hypercapnic pulmonary vasoconstriction in the isolated perfused lung of rat.	1. The aims of this study were to compare in the rat isolated perfused lung preparation, the dilator actions of nicorandil, pinacidil and nitroglycerin on the hypoxic pulmonary pressure response with or without hypercapnic acidosis and to investigate the possible involvement of K channels and EDRF in these effects. 2. Isolated lungs from male Wistar rats (260-320 g) were ventilated with 21%O2 + 5%CO2 + 74%N2 (normoxia) or 5%CO2 + 95%N2 (hypoxia) and perfused with a salt solution supplemented with ficoll and gassed with 40%CO2 + 60%N2 to produce hypercapnic acidosis. Glibenclamide (1 microM), charybdotoxin (0.1 microM), NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 100 microM) and methylene blue (30 microM) were used to block KATP channels, KCa channels, EDRF synthesis and guanylate cyclase, respectively. 3. Hypoxic pressure response was significantly increased by hypercapnic acidosis (+115%, P < 0.001), L-NAME (+111%, P < 0.001), methylene blue (+100%, P < 0.05) but not by glibenclamide or charybdotoxin. In contrast none of these inhibitors affected the hypoxic hypercapnic acidosis response. 4. Nicorandil, pinacidil and nitroglycerin caused relaxation during the hypoxic pressure response and hypoxic hypercapnic acidosis response. Nicorandil was more potent in the latter. Glibenclamide inhibited the relaxant effects of nicorandil and pinacidil but not those of nitroglycerin during hypoxia alone. In contrast, glibenclamide inhibited the relaxant effects of the three drugs during hypoxia + hypercapnia. Charybdotoxin inhibited the relaxant effect of pinacidil during normocapnia and hypoxia but not those of nicorandil or nitroglycerin. Methylene blue inhibited partially the dilator response to pinacidil but did not modify the effects of nitroglycerin or nicorandil. 5. It is concluded that in the rat isolated lung preparation, EDRF limits hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction but not hypoxic vasoconstriction potentiated by hypercapnic acidosis, whereas KATP or KCa channels are not involved in either case. Nicorandil and pinacidil dilate pulmonary vessels mainly through KATP channels but the effects of pinacidil may also involve an additional mechanism of action through KCa channels. Finally it is suggested that nitroglycerin may partly exert its relaxant effects through KATP channels.
Angiotensin II causes weight loss and decreases circulating insulin-like growth factor I in rats through a pressor-independent mechanism.	The renin-angiotensin system regulates normal cardiovascular homeostasis and is activated in certain forms of hypertension and in heart failure. Angiotensin II has multiple physiological effects and we have shown recently that its growth-promoting effects on vascular smooth muscle require autocrine activation of the IGF I receptor. To study the effect of angiotensin II on circulating IGF I, we infused rats with 500 ng/kg/min angiotensin II for up to 14 d. Angiotensin II markedly reduced plasma IGF I levels (56 and 41% decrease at 1 and 2 wk, respectively) and IGF binding protein-3 levels, and increased IGF binding protein-2 levels, a pattern suggestive of dietary restriction. Compared with sham, angiotensin II-infused hypertensive rats lost 18-26% of body weight by 1 wk, and pair-feeding experiments indicated that 74% of this loss was attributable to a reduction in food intake. The vasodilator hydralazine and the AT1 receptor antagonist losartan had comparable effects to reverse angiotensin II-induced hypertension, but only losartan blocked the changes in body weight and in circulating IGF I and its binding proteins produced by angiotensin II. Moreover, in Dahl rats that were hypertensive in response to a high-salt diet, none of these changes occurred. Thus, angiotensin II produces weight loss through a pressor-independent mechanism that includes a marked anorexigenic effect and an additional (likely metabolic) effect. These findings have profound implications for understanding the pathophysiology of conditions, such as congestive heart failure, in which the renin-angiotensin system is activated.
Nitric oxide-mediated cyclooxygenase activation. A key event in the antiplatelet effects of nitrovasodilators.	We have evaluated the contributions of nitric oxide (NO) and prostacyclin (PGI2) in the in vivo antiplatelet effects of clinically useful nitrovasodilators. In rats, intravenous infusion of three NO donors, glyceryl trinitrate, sodium nitroprusside, or 3'-morpholinosydnonimine, the stable metabolite of molsidomine, released 6-keto PGF1alpha (the stable metabolite of PGI2) and inhibited ex vivo human platelet aggregation to adenosine diphosphate by at least 80%. In in vitro studies, glyceryl trinitrate, sodium nitroprusside, and 3'-morpholinosydnonimine, at clinically attainable concentrations, increased cyclooxygenase activity in endothelial cells (EC), which resulted in a four- to sixfold release of 6-keto PGF1alpha. Pretreatment of the EC with hemoglobin which binds to and inactivates the biological actions of NO, but not by methylene blue (MelB), attenuated the NO-mediated PGI2 from the EC by at least 70%. Release of 6-keto PGF1alpha by the NO donors increased the ability of these compounds to inhibit thrombin-induced human platelet aggregation by at least 10 times; this potentiation was inhibited by hemoglobin but not by MeB. MeB blocked the direct anti-platelet effect of the NO donors in the absence of EC. In summary, we have demonstrated that NO, directly as well as together with an NO-driven cyclooxygenase activation (and hence PGI2), release contributes to the marked anti-platelet effects observed after the in vivo administration of clinically used nitrovasodilators.
Coronary vasomotor function in a normotensive, nondiabetic referral population with normal coronary arteriograms.	In a referral normal cardiac population, endothelium-independent coronary relaxation is nearly always normal, but endothelium-dependent relaxation may be depressed in a significant proportion of patients. Further study of the natural history of referral subjects with endothelial dysfunction is necessary to assess the potential cardiovascular risk of this finding in a presumed low-risk population.
Exogenous nitric oxide causes collapse of retinal ganglion cell axonal growth cones in vitro.	We show that nitric oxide (NO) from applied NO-donating chemicals induces collapse of ganglion cell axonal growth cones extending from explants of tadpole retina in culture. Peroxynitrite, a neurotoxic product of NO and superoxide reaction, did not induce collapse, and oxyhemoglobin, which binds NO, blocked the highly effective collapsing activity of the NO donor S-nitrosocysteine. Membrane-permeable analogs of cyclic guanosine monophosphate had no collapsing activity. Inhibitors of NO synthase did not induce collapse. NO is a potential retrograde messenger through which postsynaptic neurons signal to their inputs to modify synaptic efficacy following NMDA receptor activation. Our results suggest a role for NO as such a messenger during development of the retinotectal projection.
Endothelin-1 partially inhibits ATP-sensitive K+ current in guinea pig ventricular cells.	To clarify the pathophysiological significance of endothelin (ET) in the ischemic myocardium, we examined the effect of endothelin-1 (ET-1) on the ATP-sensitive K+ current (IK.ATP) and compared it with that of ET-3 in guinea pig ventricular cells using conventional microelectrode and patch clamp techniques. In isolated guinea pig papillary muscles, ET-1 (30 nM) markedly increased developed tension (DT), with little influence on action potential duration (APD), whereas ET-3 at the same concentration failed to affect DT or APD. Both nicorandil (1 mM) and cromakalim (30 microM) markedly shortened APD and decreased DT in papillary muscles. ET-1, but not ET-3, partially reversed the nicorandil-induced decreases in APD and DT in a concentration-dependent manner. ET-1 also attenuated the cromakalim-induced decreases in APD and DT. In single ventricular myocytes, both nicorandil and cromakalim increased a steady-state outward current, which was sensitive to 1 microM glibenclamide, suggesting that these drugs activate IK.ATP. ET-1 (30 nM) significantly inhibited the IK.ATP, whereas ET-3 failed to affect it. The ET-1 induced inhibition of IK.ATP was abolished by BQ-485 (100 nM), an ETA receptor-selective antagonist. Neither the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor staurosporine (20 nM) nor the calmodulin antagonist W-7 (50 microM) affected the inhibitory action of ET-1 on the nicorandil-induced IK.ATP. In pertussis toxin (PTX)-treated cells, the inhibitory action of ET-1 on IK.ATP was augmented rather than attenuated. These results suggest that ET-1 partially inhibits the IK.ATP through the activation of ETA receptors, although the precise intracellular mechanism remains to be clarified. Because activation of the ATP-sensitive K+ channels is considered to protect the ischemic myocardium, the partial inhibition of IK.ATP by ET-1 may lead to the aggravation of myocardial injury, potentially due to an increase in transmembrane Ca2+ influx.
Enhanced antiproliferative effect of nitric oxide in cultured smooth muscle cells from diabetic rats.	We examined the influence of experimental diabetes on the proliferation of cultured vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs) in presence of a nitric oxide (NO)-generating agent, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), and 8-bromo-cGMP. VSMC cultures were prepared from aortas of control and streptozotocin-diabetic rats. SNP induced a time- and dose-dependent inhibition of control and diabetic VSMC proliferation, consistent with the data on [3H]thymidine incorporation, cell counts, and index of culture mass. However, the responses to SNP were significantly enhanced in VSMCs from diabetic rats. SNP induced an increased dose-dependent accumulation of intracellular cGMP in diabetic VSMCs. In contrast, growth-inhibitory responses to 8-bromo-cGMP were not significantly different between the two VSMC models. Moreover, basal cGMP content in VSMCs was lower in diabetic rats than in controls, a result that can explain the enhanced proliferation observed in VSMCs from diabetic rats. These results suggest an enhanced antiproliferative effect of NO in VSMCs from diabetic rats through increased cGMP production. Therefore, experimental diabetes may impair and up-regulate soluble guanylate cyclase activity in VSMCs.
Protective effect of beraprost sodium, a stable prostacyclin analogue, in development of monocrotaline-induced pulmonary hypertension.	Experimental pulmonary hypertension (PH) was induced by a single injection of monocrotaline (MCT), a pyrrolizidine alkaloid extracted from Crotalaria spectabilis. The effect of beraprost sodium, a stable prostacyclin analogue, on the development of MCT-induced PH in rats was studied. Chronic administration of beraprost sodium at a dose of 30 micrograms/kg/day initiated on the same day as MCT injection decreased the degree of PH determined by weight ratio of right ventricular free wall to that of left ventricle plus septum depending on the duration of administration. Although the injection of prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) at a dose of 200 micrograms/kg/day initiated 1 week after MCT injection did not decrease the degree of PH significantly, beraprost sodium administration at doses of 30 and 100 micrograms/kg/day decreased the degree of PH significantly. The cytoprotective effect of beraprost sodium against endothelial cell (EC) damage is believed to be involved in inhibiting development of PH in MCT-injected rats. The amounts of cytokines such as interleukin-1 (IL-1), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and tumor necrosis factor (TNF) produced by alveolar macrophages decreased in accordance with the inhibiting effect of beraprost sodium on development of PH, indicating that beraprost sodium inhibited the development of PH in MCT-injected rats not only through its effect of vasodilation and anti-platelet aggregation in pulmonary circulation but also through its antiinflammatory effects.
Nitric oxide reduces endothelial expression of intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1.	Nitric oxide (NO.) has proven effective in improving oxygenation and reducing pulmonary hypertension in the acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), but the precise mechanism remains unclear. NO. has been shown to reduce leukocyte-endothelial adhesion, attenuate neutrophil (PMN) sequestration, and protect endothelium from an inflammatory insult. Intercellular adhesion molecule (ICAM)-1 is a pivotal regulator of PMN-endothelial adhesion and, thus, a critical mediator of PMN cytotoxicity. Consequently, we hypothesized that NO. suppresses ICAM-1 expression on endothelium. Human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) were cultured. The NO. donor 3-morpholinosidnonimine (SIN-1) (0.1-10 microM) was incubated with HUVEC for 4 hr. In separate experiments, HUVEC were incubated with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS) (100 ng/ml) alone or following SIN-1 pretreatment. ICAM-1 expression on HUVEC was measured by flow cytometric analysis. SIN-1 (1 and 10 microM) reduced the expression of ICAM-1 on resting HUVEC by 58 and 47%, respectively. LPS upregulated ICAM-1 expression; however, this was not affected by SIN-1 pretreatment. We conclude that NO. reduces constitutive endothelial expression of ICAM-1, but does not prevent LPS-stimulated upregulation of ICAM-1 expression. Downregulation of ICAM-1 may be a mechanism whereby NO. protects resting endothelium (distant organ bed) from circulating primed or activated PMNs, but may not be as effective at a primary inflammatory site.
Nitrosation of tryptophan residue(s) in serum albumin and model dipeptides. Biochemical characterization and bioactivity.	Nitrosation of bovine serum albumin with acidified NaNO2 was compared to that of carboxymethyl-bovine serum albumin in which the thiol group is covalently blocked. Differential ultraviolet-visible (UV-Vis) spectroscopy and a modified Saville assay indicated that a non-cysteine residue(s) in carboxymethyl-bovine serum albumin was nitrosated. The nitrosated carboxymethyl-bovine serum albumin exhibited similar vasorelaxation activity as that observed with nitrosated bovine serum albumin. Identification of the nitrosated non-cysteine residue(s) was studied using 16 model dipeptides, each of which contained a glycyl residue and a variable residue. Using photolysis-chemiluminescence analysis, modified Saville assay, differential UV-Vis spectroscopy, and bioassays, L-glycyl-L-tryptophan (Gly-Trp) was found to be the only dipeptide that underwent significant nitrosation under these conditions. Liquid chromatography-UV-Vis spectroscopy-mass spectrometry showed that the NO group was attached to the indole nitrogen of tryptophan. Nitrosated Gly-Trp exhibited dose-dependent vasorelaxation and platelet inhibiting activity with apparent EC50 values of 1.1 +/- 0. 3 and 3.5 +/- 0.9 microM, respectively. Because N-nitroso-Gly-Trp does not release NO radical via spontaneous homolytic N-NO bond fission nor freely diffuse through cellular membranes, the ability of this compound to induce NO.-like biological effects suggests the existence of a (membrane-associated) transnitrosation system that facilitates delivery of -NO to its specific biologic target(s).
Inhaled nitric oxide in the management of congenital heart disease.	Inhaled nitric oxide, with a threshold of perhaps only a few parts per million, is a selective pulmonary vasodilator in patients with congenital heart disease and increased pulmonary vascular resistance. Multiple reports suggest that it may be useful in managing postoperative pulmonary hypertension in the cardiac patient, although it is unknown to what extent inhaled nitric oxide can actually reduce morbidity and mortality in this setting. This agent also holds promise for evaluating patients with pulmonary hypertension prior to heart transplantation. Although special care is needed to avoid toxicity related to excess inhaled nitric oxide or nitric dioxide or increased methemoglobin, the risk of complications with inhaled nitric oxide therapy appears to be very low. Inhaled nitric oxide will likely continue to play a significant role in the pre-and postoperative management of patients with congenital heart disease.
ATP-sensitive potassium channel modulators: both pinacidil and glibenclamide produce antiarrhythmic activity during acute myocardial infarction in conscious rats.	We investigated the effects of pinacidil, an ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener, and of glibenclamide, an ATP-sensitive potassium channel inhibitor, on the incidence of arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death after coronary artery ligation in conscious rats. Occlusion of the left main coronary artery was produced by tightening a previously placed loose silk ligature. In the control group (n = 25) only 40% and 24% of the animals survived for 15 min and 16 hr after coronary artery ligation, respectively. Intravenous pretreatment with 0.1, 0.3 or 1 mg/kg pinacidil increased the survival rate to 67% (n = 15), 70% (n = 20) and 67% (n = 12) in the first 15 min and to 60%, 55% and 67% in the first 16 hr, respectively. Glibenclamide pretreatment (5.0 mg/kg i.p.) improved the survival rate at both time-points to 87% (n = 16). Both types of pretreatment significantly decreased the incidence of life-threatening arrhythmias and increased the number of animals that survived without developing any arrhythmia. In conclusion, the present findings demonstrate that in conscious rats, pretreatment with pinacidil and pretreatment with glibenclamide, although they obviously have different mechanisms of action, may result in a very similar final outcome with respect to arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death during the acute phase of experimental myocardial infarction.
Cardioprotective effect of nicorandil in histidine-tryptophan-ketoglurate solution during the cold storage of isolated hearts.	We compared the efficacy of using histidine-tryptophan-ketoglurate (HTK) solution with that of University of Wisconsin (UW) solution for heart preservation in an isolated rat heart preparation. Nicorandil (NCR) exerts its action as an ATP-sensitive potassium channel opener at low extracellular potassium concentrations, and HTK solution has a low potassium concentration. Therefore, we also investigated the efficacy of using HTK solution with NCR following 12-hr preservation. Hearts isolated from male Wistar rats were mounted on a Langendorff apparatus to estimate baseline aortic flow (AF), coronary flow (CF), cardiac out-put (CO), heart rate (HR), systolic pressure (SP), aortic mean pressure, and the rate-pressure product (RPP). The hearts were divided into four groups: group 1, 8-hr storage in UW solution; groups 2 and 3, 8- or 12-hr storage in HTK solution, respectively; and group 4, 12-hr storage in HTK solution with NCR. They were arrested and stored at 4 degrees C in each preservation solution. Following storage, they were reperfused and postpreservative function was measured to assess cardiac functional recovery. Concentrations of creatine phosphokinase, troponin-T, and lactate in the coronary perfusate were measured. Frozen tissue samples from groups 3 and 4 were analyzed for adenylate content and cGMP. The myocardial water content was also measured. The recovery of AF, CF, CO, SP, and RPP in group 2 was significantly improved compared with that in group 1 (P<0.05). The recovery of AF, CF, CO and HR in group 4 was significantly better than that in group 3 (P<0.05). Creatine phosphokinase leakage in group 2 and troponin-T leakage in group 4 were significantly reduced (P<0.05 vs. groups 1 and 3, respectively). Total adenine nucleotides and the adenylate energy charge in group 4 were well sustained (P<0.05 vs. group 3). These results suggest that HTK solution is more effective than UW solution for cardiac preservation, and that NCR provides still better protection.
Chronotropic effects of coronary vasodilators as assessed in the isolated, blood-perfused sino-atrial node preparation of the dog.	Chronotropic effects of 6 coronary vasodilators, carbochromen, dilazep, diltiazem, dipyridamole, nifedipine and verapamil, were compared by close-arterial administration to the isolated, blood-perfused sino-atrial node preparation of the dog. All drugs produced a dose-related decrease in sinus rate, and the order of negative chronotropic potency determined on a weight basis was as follows: (formula: see text). Higher doses of these drugs except dipyridamole caused atrial standstill. The order of potency causing atrial standstill determined on a weight basis was as follows: (formula: see text). Dipyridamole in lower doses produced a negative chronotropic effect alone, but with higher doses a positive chronotropic effect preceded a negative one. Carbochromen in a wide range of doses produced a triphasic response consisting of initial brief positive, succeeding main negative and final gradually-developing slight positive components.
The comparison of vascular reactivities of arterial and venous grafts to vasodilators: management of graft spasm.	Graft spasm in the perioperative or postoperative period increases the risk of morbidity and mortality after coronary revascularization and hence necessitates urgent treatment. We have studied the effects of various vasodilators against noradrenaline- and endothelin-1-induced spasms in saphenous vein, internal mammary artery and gastroepiploic artery. In internal mammary and gastroepiploic arteries, the nitrovasodilators, sodium nitroprusside and glyceryl trinitrate, effectively reversed the spasms induced either with noradrenaline (for sodium nitroprusside; internal mammary artery: 101.07% +/- 1.63%; gastroepiploic artery: 94.10% +/- 2.07%) or endothelin-1 (for sodium nitroprusside; internal mammary artery: 97.67% +/- 4.94%; gastroepiploic artery: 90.69% +/- 2.61%). However, in saphenous vein contracted with endothelin-1, the responsiveness to nitrovasodilators was significantly blunted (for sodium nitroprusside: 52.33% +/- 5.19%) than that of rings contracted with noradrenaline (for sodium nitroprusside: 95.04% +/- 1.94%). Both arterial and venous grafts exhibited moderate beta-receptor function in response to isoproterenol. Isoproterenol was less effective in inhibiting the contractions of endothelin-1 in saphenous vein and gastroepiploic artery but not in internal mammary artery. On the other hand, nifedipine and papaverine were fully effective in reversing all the spasms in three of the graft materials. From these results, it can be deduced that saphenous vein is refractory against cyclic guanidine monophosphate (cGMP)-dependent and beta-receptor mediated relaxations when endothelin-1 was used as the spasmogenic agent. Internal mammary artery is the most responsive graft material to the vasodilators regardless of the nature of spasmogenic stimulus. Gastroepiploic artery exhibits functional similarity with internal mammary artery, with the exception of beta-receptor responsiveness.
MPR14]-rADM(14-50), a novel analog of adrenomedullin, possesses potent vasodilator activity in the hindlimb vascular bed of the cat	Responses to [Mpr14]-ADM(14-50), a novel analog of adrenomedullin, were investigated in the hindlimb vascular bed of the cat under conditions of controlled blood flow. Intraarterial injections of [Mpr14]-rADM(14-50) in doses of 0.003-1 nmol caused dose-related decreases in hindlimb perfusion pressure. In terms of relative vasodilator activity, [Mpr14]-rADM(14-50) was more potent than human synthetic adrenomedullin (hADM) in doses of 0.003-0.1 nmol. The recovery half-times (T 1/2) for the vasodilator response to [Mpr14]-rADM(14-50) were significantly greater than the recovery half-times for hADM in all doses studied. Decreases in hindlimb perfusion pressure in response to [Mpr14]-rADM(14-50) were not altered by the calcitonin gene-related peptide receptor antagonist rCGRP(8-37) at the same time vasodilator responses to calcitonin gene-related peptide were significantly reduced. The present data demonstrate that [Mpr14]-(14-50) has potent and long-lasting vasodilator activity when compared to hADM, and that vasodilator responses to [Mpr14]-rADM(14-50) are not dependent on the activation of CGRP receptors in the hindlimb vascular bed of the cat.
Calcium blockage in pulmonary hypertension and hypoxic vasoconstriction.	Both extracellular and intracellular calcium (Ca2+) play important roles in hypoxic pulmonary vasoconstriction (HPV) and the vasoconstrictor responses to endogenous pulmonary vasoconstrictor substances, as evidenced by the effect of calcium-channel blockers on these vasoconstrictor responses and the measurement of changes in Ca2+ flux or intracellular Ca2+ concentrations in isolated cells. The more vasoselective the calcium-channel blocker, the greater its effect on pulmonary vasoconstriction. However, these drugs are not selective for the pulmonary vascular bed and are not as potent as pulmonary vasodilators when compared with other vasodilator drugs, including prostaglandin E1, isoproterenol, prostacyclin, or nitroglycerin. Moreover, the primary effect of vasoselective calcium-channel blockers on pulmonary vascular resistance is secondary to the effects of these agents on systemic vascular resistance and cardiac output. Although there is improvement in oxygen delivery, exercise tolerance, and survival in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension who respond to calcium-channel blockers, the response of individual patients to these drugs is difficult to predict because the extent of reversible versus irreversible changes in the pulmonary vasculature is not known. The use of these drugs in patients with chronic hypoxia-induced pulmonary vasoconstriction may be associated with a worsening of ventilation-perfusion mismatching secondary to inhibition of HPV.
No evidence of a direct venodilatory effect of furosemide in healthy human subjects.	The present study was undertaken to examine whether furosemide, a loop diuretic, has a direct venodilatory effect in healthy male subjects. Furosemide, or amrinone, an inotropic agent with a vasodilatory action, was infused into a dorsal hand vein that had been preconstricted by phenylephrine. The diameter of the vein was measured by a linear variable differential transformer. Venodilation was observed during the infusion of amrinone, but such a response was not detected with furosemide. These findings do not support the hypothesis that furosemide has a direct venodilatory effect in healthy human subjects.
Endothelin-1 concentrations and optimisation of arterial oxygenation and venous admixture by selective pulmonary artery infusion of prostaglandin E1 during thoracotomy.	In order to improve arterial oxygenation and venous admixture during one lung ventilation, the effect of selective infusion of prostaglandin E1 into the pulmonary artery of the ventilated lung was investigated in 12 adult patients undergoing thoracotomy. Patients' bronchi were intubated with a Mallinckrodt bronchial tube and ventilated with 66% oxygen in air. Cardiopulmonary factors such as systemic and pulmonary arterial pressures, pulmonary vascular resistance, blood gas analyses, cardiac output and airway pressure were measured before and during one-lung ventilation; venous admixture (Qs/Qt) was calculated. Serial blood samples were taken from the pulmonary artery of the ventilated lung for endothelin-1 estimation. One lung ventilation reduced the mean PaO2 from 42.1 (2.3) kPa to 11.8 (1.4) kPa (p < 0.001) and increased Qs/Qt from 10.8 (3.2)% to 39.2 (4.7)% (p < 0.001). Pulmonary vascular resistance also increased from 167 (24) dyne.s.cm-5 to 262 (38) dyne.s.cm-5 (p < 0.05) with a corresponding increase of plasma endothelin-1 (p < 0.05). After 30 min of one lung ventilation, PGE1 was infused continuously into the pulmonary artery of the ventilated lung at a rate which increased incrementally from 0.04-0.10 micrograms.kg-1.min-1. PaO2 increased to 20.7 (2.6) kPa (p < 0.01) and Qs/Qt decreased to 30.6 (3.5)% (p < 0.05). During the infusion, pulmonary vascular resistance reduced to 173 (30) dyne.s.cm-5 (p < 0.01). The plasma endothelin-1 concentration reached a plateau between the end of one lung ventilation (before closing the thorax) and 6 h postoperatively. This correlated inversely with the pre-operative forced expiratory volume in one second (r = -0.68, p < 0.005), declining to normal values 72 h after operation. The selective infusion of PGE1 into the pulmonary artery of the ventilated lung corrected pulmonary vasoconstriction and improved both arterial oxygenation and venous admixture during one lung ventilation for thoracotomy.
Atrial natriuretic peptide increases adrenomedullin in the circulation of healthy humans.	Adrenomedullin (ADM) is a new 52 amino acid peptide originally isolated from extracts of human pheochromocytoma. ADM's biologic properties are nearly identical to those of atrial natriuretic peptides. Thus, the 4 peptide hormones originating from amino acids 1-30 [long acting natriuretic peptide], 31-67 [vessel dilator], 79-98 [kaliuretic peptide] and 99-126 [atrial natriuretic factor; ANF] of the 126 amino acid ANF prohormone as well as ADM have blood pressure lowering and diuretic properties. The present investigation was designed to determine if one or more of these 4 atrial natriuretic peptides increase adrenomedullin within the circulation of healthy humans. Infusion of 100 ng/kg body weight/minute for 60 minutes of the respective atrial peptides resulted in a 4-fold (P < 0.001) increase in the circulating concentration of adrenomedullin secondary to the ANF infusion but no increase in adrenomedullin with the long acting natriuretic peptide, vessel dilator, or kaliuretic peptide infusions. The four-fold increase of adrenomedullin in the circulation persisted throughout the infusion of ANF, but returned to pre-infusion levels within 30 minutes of stopping the ANF infusion. Infusion of 10 pg/kg body weight/minute for 60 minutes of ANF resulted in a 2 1/2-fold increase (P < 0.05) in the circulating concentration of adrenomedullin. There was a significant (P < 0.01) diuresis and blood pressure lowering effect with each of the atrial natriuretic peptides in the present investigation. This investigation suggests that 1) atrial natriuretic factor increases the release of adrenomedullin and 2) that the diuretic and blood pressure lowering effects previously attributed to atrial natriuretic factor may be partially due to adrenomedullin since both increased during the ANF infusion and both have similar biologic effects. As opposed to atrial natriuretic factor, adrenomedullin was not increased by long acting natriuretic peptide, vessel dilator, or kaliuretic peptide suggesting that their biologic effects do not involve adrenomedullin.
Increased basal tone and hyperresponsiveness to acetylcholine and ergonovine in spasm related coronary arteries in patients with variant angina--basal coronary artery tone in patients with variant angina.	In patients with variant angina, previous data have been inconclusive as to whether basal coronary artery tone is elevated at the spastic and non-spastic sites. Thus, the purpose of this study was to assess the basal coronary artery tone and the responsiveness to acetylcholine (Ach) and ergonovine (Erg) in patients with variant angina. We compared the basal coronary artery tone and the constrictive responses to Ach and Erg between 31 patients (Group 1) with variant angina in whom spasm was provoked by the low doses of Ach (intracoronary 20 micrograms) or Erg(intravenous 50 micrograms) and 35 patients (Group 2) provoked by higher doses of Ach (intracoronary 100 micrograms) or Erg (intravenous cumulative dose of 350 micrograms), and 26 control subjects. Patients with variant angina in whom spasm was provoked by low doses of Ach or Erg, had a higher incidence of mixed disease, multi-vessel spasm and higher disease activity. The basal coronary artery tone at the spastic and nonspastic sites of spasm related artery was significantly more elevated in Group 1 than that in Group 2 (44 +/- 17 vs 14 +/- 11% and 26 +/- 14 vs 16 +/- 10% respectively, P < 0.05), but not in the nonspasm related artery, The magnitudes of vasoconstrictive responses to Ach and Erg at the nonspastic sites were also greater in Group 1 than those in Group 2 and the control groups (Ach; 40 +/- 20 vs 26 +/- 11, 27 +/- 12%: Erg; 37 +/- 18 vs 12 +/- 8, 13 +/- 10% respectively, P < 0.05). However, the basal coronary artery tone was not elevated at the spastic and nonspastic sites in Group 2 compared to the in control subjects. These findings suggest that the basal coronary artery tone is increased in patients with variant angina with higher disease activity at the spastic sites and nonspastic sites of the spasm-related artery, and this may be related to the occurrence of coronary artery spasm.
Effects of gradual volume loading on left ventricular diastolic function in dogs: implications for the optimisation of cardiac output.	Volume loading is commonly used to adjust preload and optimise cardiac output. It is difficult to monitor preload at the bedside because filling affects ventricular diastolic function and consequently end diastolic pressure, which is the variable used to monitor preload.
Metabolic and hormonal responses to induced hypotension for middle ear surgery.	We have investigated in 30 patients the metabolic and hormonal responses to middle ear surgery using induced hypotension to a mean arterial pressure of 55 mm Hg. A standardized anaesthetic technique of propranolol, thiopentone-vecuronium-isoflurane was used in all patients and hypotension induced with sodium nitroprusside, trimetaphan camsylate or additional isoflurane. All patients showed a classic stress response with an increase in circulating blood glucose, cortisol and growth hormone concentrations. Blood lactate and plasma uric acid concentrations changed little during operation, suggesting that tissue oxygenation was adequate. However, the former declined after operation, possibly as a result of the concomitant use of propranolol. There were no significant differences between the three hypotensive techniques in their effects on the hormonal and metabolic response, although the increase in blood glucose concentration in the trimetaphan group was obtunded. We conclude that induced hypotension for middle ear surgery induced an endocrine and metabolic response of small magnitude and short duration.
Effect of isosorbiddinitrate on exogenously expressed slowly activating K+ channels and endogenous K+ channels in Xenopus oocytes.	1. The effects of isosorbiddinitrate (ISDN) were tested on membrane currents and resting potential in Xenopus laevis oocytes which were either uninjected or injected with cRNA encoding for K+ channels from three distinct families (slowly activating IsK channels, delayed-rectifying Kv1.1 or inwardly rectifying IRK1 K+ channels). 2. In uninjected oocytes ISDN (1 mM) resulted in a decrease of the holding current at potentials more positive than -100 mV and in an increase at potentials below -100 mV. Increasing extracellular K+ to 100 mM shifted the reversal potential for ISDN-mediated effects to approximately -12 mV, suggesting an inhibition of a K+ conductance by ISDN. 3. In current clamp studies ISDN (1 mM) and Ba2+ (3 mM) depolarized cell membrane. ISDN and Ba2+ had no additive effects on membrane potential when applied simultaneously. In voltage clamp studies, corresponding results were observed for the effects of ISDN and Ba2+ on the holding current with an apparent K(m) of 0.21 and 0.08 mM, respectively. 4. In contrast to ISDN, the nitric oxide (NO) donors isosorbidmononitrate (ISMN) and S-nitrosocysteine (SNOC) had no effects on the holding currents in Xenopus oocytes. Moreover, the guanylate inhibitor LY 83583 did not affect ISDN-mediated holding current alterations, suggesting that ISDN acts independently of the second messenger NO. 5. ISDN inhibited exogenously expressed IsK channels with an apparent K(m) of 0.15 mM, but at 1 mM only weakly inhibited Kv1.1 and IRK1 channels. 6. It is concluded that ISDN inhibits an endogenous K+ conductance in Xenopus oocytes with a similar potency to that shown by expressed IsK channels. These effects are independent of the second messenger NO.
The effects of hypertonic saline solution on coronary blood flow in anaesthetized pigs.	1. The effects of intracoronary bolus infusion of hypertonic saline solution on left circumflex coronary blood flow were examined in sixteen anaesthetized and artificially ventilated pigs whilst preventing changes in heart rate and arterial blood pressure. 2. In fourteen pigs, bolus infusion of 7.5% hypertonic saline solution (2 ml within 30 s) caused a steady-state increase in coronary blood flow without significantly affecting right atrial or left ventricular pressure and its rate of rise (dP/dtmax). Infusing normal saline solution (0.9%) at the same rate and volume in seven pigs did not have this effect. 3. In five pigs, the magnitude and the duration of the response of increase in coronary blood flow were increased in a graded manner by graded increases in the concentration of the hypertonic saline solution between 2.5, 5 and 7.5%. 4. In nine pigs, the response of increase in coronary blood flow to the bolus infusion of hypertonic saline solution was not affected by the blocking agents atropine, propranolol and phentolamine, but it was completely abolished in the same nine pigs by the subsequent intracoronary administration of N omega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) which blocks the synthesis of endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) and in seven pigs by solely giving L-NAME. 5. These results showed that the intracoronary bolus infusion of hypertonic saline solution in anaesthetized pigs caused a coronary vasodilatation which involved mechanisms dependent on the release of EDRF.
Effects of dobutamine on the relationship between oxygen consumption and delivery in healthy volunteers: comparison with sodium nitroprusside.	1. Dobutamine has been used to study the relationship between oxygen consumption (VO2) and oxygen delivery (DO2) in critically ill patients, but this has led to concerns that it could consistently increase VO2 in all patients. Although a direct thermogenic effect of the catecholamine has been primarily implicated in this increase in VO2, an increase in blood flow may contribute significantly by increasing the oxygen requirements of the heart and other organs such as the kidney and the liver. If this mechanism is predominant, it should also be observed when blood flow increases during the infusion of non-adrenergic agents. To separate the two mechanisms, we compared the effects of dobutamine with those of sodium nitroprusside on VO2/DO2 relationships in healthy volunteers. 2. Eight healthy volunteers received infusions of dobutamine at doses of 2, 4 and 6 micrograms min-1 kg-1 and nitroprusside at doses of 0.5, 1 and 2 micrograms min-1 kg-1 in an alternate order. 3. VO2 was determined by indirect calorimetry and cardiac output by electrical bioimpedance. Data were analysed by analysis of variance for repeated measurements and individual VO2/DO2 slopes were determined by linear regression. 4. VO2 increased more with dobutamine than with nitroprusside (from 138 +/- 14 to 149 +/- 20 ml min-1 m-2, P < 0.001, and from 131 +/- 14 to 138 +/- 17 ml min-1 m-2, P < 0.001, respectively). However, DO2 also increased more with dobutamine than with nitroprusside (from 531 +/- 186 to 702 +/- 274 ml min-1 m-2, P < 0.001, and from 523 +/- 107 to 610 +/- 122 ml min-1 m-2, P < 0.001, respectively). Individual VO2/DO2 slopes were similar with dobutamine and nitroprusside (6.5 +/- 3.5 compared with 7.1 +/- 4.6%, P not significant). 5. At the doses used, DO2 and VO2 increased more with dobutamine than with nitroprusside in healthy volunteers. However, the VO2/DO2 slopes were similar for both substances. Thus, an increase in VO2 is not exclusively observed with catecholamines. Studies of the effects of therapeutic interventions on oxygen-derived variables should report not only changes in VO2 but also VO2/DO2 slopes.
Onset time of topical analgesia with EMLA 5%: no reduction with glyceryl trinitrate.	Many adults are distressed by painful investigations or treatment, including venepuncture. The early effects of Eutectic Mixture of Local Anaesthetics (EMLA) 5%, on relief of pinprick pain in the antecubital area was investigated and compared with EMLA plus glyceryl trinitrate and with a placebo cream in 100 patients. Topical analgesia after application of EMLA developed within 5 min in 69% and within 10 min in 83% of those tested, significantly different from placebo, (P = 0.01).
Nitric oxide contributes to desipramine-induced hypotension in rats.	1. Anesthetized rats received the TCA desipramine (DMI) 60 mg kg-1 i.p. Administration of the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester-(L-NAME) 15 min after DMI reversed hypotension within 5 min (P < 0.05). In contrast to its beneficial effect on blood pressure, L-NAME worsened DMI-induced prolongation of the electrocardiographic QRS interval. Dexamethasone, an inhibitor of NOS induction, did not prevent DMI-induced hypotension. 2. To study the effect of L-NAME on survival, DMI was administered to anesthetized rats as a continuous i.v. infusion until death. Despite initially improving blood pressure, L-NAME decreased the mean survival time by 33% (P < 0.01) compared to control treatment. Administration of the nitric oxide (NO) donor nitroglycerine to rats during DMI infusion likewise decreased the mean survival time. 3. L-NAME partially reversed the hypotensive effect of nitroprusside in both anesthetized and awake rats. 4. These data suggest that NO production attributable to constitutive NOS (cNOS) activity aggravates the hypotension associated with DMI toxicity in the anesthetized rat, and contributes to the pathophysiology of this overdose. The shortened survival time produced by both increasing and decreasing NO production suggests that cNOS activity during DMI overdose is regulated and adaptive. Ongoing cNOS activity also contributed to nitroprusside-induced hypotension, and may represent a feature common to other drug-induced hypotensive states.
MCI-154-induced relaxation in vascular smooth muscles of guinea pig.	We investigated the vasorelaxant effects of MCI-154, a cardiotonic agent designed to target thin filaments in cardiac muscles in intact and skinned vessels from guinea pigs. In normal Krebs-Henseleit solution, MCI-154 (10(-7)-10(-4) M) inhibited the contractions induced by angiotensin II, (Ang II), endothelin-1 (ET-1), phenylephrine, and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) in a concentration-dependent manner in guinea pig aorta. In Ca(2+)-free solutions, ET-1 and PMA caused slowly developing and sustained contractions in guinea pig aorta, whereas phenylephrine and caffeine induced transient contractions due to Ca2+ release from the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR). MCI-154 (10(-7)-10(-4) M) inhibited the contractile responses to ET-1 and PMA. MCI-154 also reduced the contraction induced by Ca2+ release from phenylehrine- and caffeine-sensitive Ca2+ store sites. On the other hand, the relaxation response to MCI-154 was not affected by the presence of methylene blue, a guanylate cyclase inhibitor or by the removal of endothelial cells. MCI-154 decreased the Ca(2+)-activated tension development in saponin-treated skinned fibers from guinea pig femoral arteries. The effects of MCI-154 were not potentiated in the presence of protein kinase A (PKA), whereas those of cyclic AMP were potentiated, possibly because of lack of protein kinase A. The present experiments demonstrate that MCI-154 inhibits vascular contraction when the contractions are produced by any of three mechanisms: protein kinase C (PKC) activation, Ca2+ mobilization from store sites, or sensitization of contractile elements by Ca2+.
Preferential dilation of large coronary microvessels by the mononitrates SPM-4744 and SPM-5185.	A novel aspect of the pharmacodynamic action of nitroglycerin is that it is a potent dilator of larger coronary arteries, yet it dilates smaller coronary microvessels submaximally and only in high concentrations. We sought to determine whether this property was shared by other organic nitrates. The effects of two mononitrates. SPM-4744 and SPM-5185 (the latter of which possesses a thioester in its structure), on coronary microvessels of different sizes were studied. Large (200-microns diameter) and small ( < 100-microns diameter) porcine coronary microvessels were studied in vitro while pressurized in a no-flow state. After constriction with the thromboxane analogue U46619, maximal dilations (as a percent of preconstricted tone at the highest applied concentration, 10 microM) of small coronary microvessels were 18 +/- 3 and 16 = 2% in response to SPM-4744 and SPM-5185, respectively. The dilations of larger coronary microvessels to SPM-4744 and SPM-5185 were 55 +/- 5 and 43 +/- 6%, respectively (both p < 0.001 vs. the small vessel responses). This pattern of differential vasodilatation of large and small coronary microvessels was similar to that produced by nitroglycerin. In contrast, sodium nitroprusside produced equivalent degrees of vasodilation of small and large coronary microvessels. Additional experiments demonstrated that both SPM compounds produced dilation of the coronary microcirculation in isolated rat heart and relaxed isolated segments of rat aortic rings only in high ( > or = 1 microM) concentrations. These data demonstrate that the organic mononitrates are similar to nitroglycerin in their selectivity for larger coronary microvessels and produce only minimal dilation of coronary microvessels < 100 microM in diameter.
Possible existence of novel endothelium-derived relaxing factor in the endothelium of rat mesenteric arterial bed.	Both acetylcholine (ACh) and cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) caused vasodilation of the mesenteric arterial bed in a concentration-dependent manner. When the mesenteric arterial bed was perfused with 0.1% Triton X-100 for 30 s, ACh- or CPA-induced vasodilation was almost abolished. ACh-induced vasodilation was significantly attenuated in isotonic high K+ (60 mM) solution and significantly decreased by treatment with methylene blue (MB) with NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NNA) in isotonic high K+ (60 mM) solution, whereas CPA-induced vasodilation of the mesentery was not affected by these treatments. ACh- or CPA-induced vasodilation was not affected by indomethacin. ACh caused significant increase in cyclic GMP levels and cyclic AMP in effluents from the perfused mesentery, whereas CPA could not increase cyclic GMP. CPA caused significant increase in cyclic AMP in a concentration-dependent manner, and CPA-induced increase in cyclic AMP was completely inhibited by removal of the endothelium. These results suggest that one or more endothelium-derived relaxing factor (EDRF) or factors should exist other than endothelium-derived nitric oxide (EDNO) or endothelium-derived hyperpolarizing factor (EDHF) in the endothelium of the rat mesenteric arterial bed. The novel EDRF may relax the mesenteric arterial bed through production of cyclic AMP but not cyclic GMP.
Nitric oxide raises cytosolic concentrations of Ca2+ in cultured nodose ganglion neurons from rabbits.	The effects of donors of nitric oxide (NO), namely, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine-(SNAP) and E-methyl-2-E-hydroxyimino-5-nitro-6-methoxy-3-hexeneamide (NOR1), on cytosolic concentrations of Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) were studied in cultured nodose ganglion neurons from newborn and young rabbits by loading with fura-2AM and microfluorometry. Application of SNAP (5 microM-1 mM) increased [Ca2+]i in 46% of neurons tested. The threshold dose of the response was 10 microM and the response increased in a dose-dependent fashion. The increase in [Ca2+]i at 50 microM averaged 74 +/- 8% above the control value. [Ca2+]i rose immediately after injection of SNAP and the plateau level was maintained in the presence of SNAP.NOR1, another donor of NO, increased [Ca2+]i with an average increase of 82 +/- 7% at 50 microM. Quantitation of NO gas in the solution of NOR1 by a redox chemiluminescence method revealed the constant release of 0.06 ppm NO from 5 ml of a 20 microM solution of NOR1. These data suggest that NO released from donors of NO induced an increase in [Ca2+]i in nodose ganglion neurons and, therefore, that NO might play a role as a transmitter or a modulator in autonomic primary sensory systems.
Influence of hypercholesterolaemia on the reactivity of isolated rabbit arteries to 15-lipoxygenase metabolites of arachidonic acid: comparison with platelet-derived agents and vasodilators.	The lipoxygenase product 15-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid (15-HETE) was shown to be the most important eicosanoid formed in the atherosclerotic rabbit aorta. The aim of the present study was to compare the effects of 15-HETE and its hydroperoxy precursor 15-HpETE with those of other vasoconstrictor and vasodilator agents in arteries from rabbits fed either a control or a cholesterol-rich diet for 16 and 30 weeks. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) aggregated platelets and thrombin caused contractions of isolated rabbit aortas. The contractile responses elicited by platelets from control animals were similar to those evoked by platelets from atherosclerotic rabbits. After 16 weeks of hypercholesterolemia, the contractile responses were either augmented (5-HT), unchanged (platelets) or reduced (thrombin). After 30 weeks of hypercholesterolemia, the responses to all contractile agents used had decreased. In both aortas and pulmonary arteries the endothelium-dependent relaxations to the calcium ionophore, A23167, and to acetylcholine were progressively lost and the endothelium-independent relaxations to nitroglycerin were reduced by the progressing hypercholesterolemia. The 15-lipoxygenase metabolites contracted the isolated thoracic aorta and pulmonary artery from control rabbits and to a lesser extent those of the cholesterol-fed rabbits. After raising the tone in these vessels with prostaglandin F2 alpha PGF2 alpha) or noradrenaline, 15-HpETE induced relaxations which were not significantly influenced by the development of fatty streaks. Our data illustrate that the contractions of the blood vessel wall to 15-HETE, like those to other vasoconstrictors, are markedly reduced by developing atherosclerosis. In contrast, the relaxations to 15-HpETE in the rabbit arteries remain unaltered after 16 to 30 weeks of hypercholesterolemia. This is unlike the reactions to other vasodilators, which are markedly reduced.
Adrenergic receptors in the forehead microcirculation.	The presence of alpha- and beta-adrenoceptors in the forehead microcirculation was investigated in 49 healthy subjects. Local vascular responses to noradrenaline, isoprenaline and adrenergic antagonists, administered transcutaneously by iontophoresis, were monitored via laser Doppler flowmetry. Iontophoresis of the alpha-adrenergic antagonist phentolamine induced a persistent increase in skin blood flow, whereas iontophoresis of saline induced a minor increase in skin blood flow which subsided rapidly. Skin blood flow increased moderately after the iontophoresis of the beta-adrenergic antagonist propranolol. Pretreatment of the experimental site with phentolamine blocked the normal vasoconstrictor response to noradrenaline, and unmasked a minor vasodilator component of response in some subjects. Iontophoresis of the beta-adrenergic agonist isoprenaline induced dose-dependent vasodilatation which was antagonised by propranolol. These findings indicate that alpha-adrenoceptors in the forehead microcirculation normally mediate a vasoconstrictor response to iontophoretically-applied noradrenaline. In addition, beta-adrenoceptors appear to mediate a minor vasodilator component of response.
The dose dependency of the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist and beta-adrenoceptor partial agonist activity of dilevalol and labetalol in man.	1. The alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist, beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist and beta 2-partial agonist activity of dilevalol, a beta-adrenoceptor antagonist with vasodilating properties and labetalol were investigated in two studies. 2. In the first study, six healthy male subjects received serially increasing concentrations phenylephrine after single oral doses of dilevalol 200 mg, labetalol 400 mg and placebo at weekly intervals in a randomised double-blind manner. An exercise step test was performed at the end of the infusions. 3. The doses of phenylephrine required to increase systolic and diastolic blood pressures by 20 mmHg (PS20 and PD20 respectively) were increased by labetalol 400 mg (P < 0.05) but unchanged by dilevalol 200 mg. The dose ratios for PS20 (means +/- s.d.) were: dilevalol 200 mg 1.1 +/- 0.1, labetalol 400 mg 2.2 +/- 0.1. There was no difference in the percentage reduction in exercise tachycardia between dilevalol and labetalol. 4. In the second study, 10 healthy male subjects received infusions with serially increasing concentrations of phenylephrine and angiotensin II before and after single oral doses of dilevalol 200, 400 and 800 mg, labetalol 200 mg and placebo at weekly intervals in a double-blind randomised manner. Finger tremor was measured (piezoelectric accelerometer) with each infusion. An exercise step test was performed at the end of the infusions. 5. The PS20 and PD20 of phenylephrine were increased by labetalol 200 mg and unchanged by dilevalol. The dose ratios for PS20 were: dilevalol 200 mg 1.1 +/- 0.2. dilevalol 400 mg 1.1 +/- 0.4, dilevalol 800 mg 1.4 +/- 0.4 and labetalol 200 mg 2.5 +/- 0.7. The dose ratios for PD20 were: dilevalol 200 mg 1.1 +/- 0.4, dilevalol 400 mg 0.9 +/- 0.3. dilevalol 800 mg 1.3 +/- 0.4 and labetalol 200 mg 2.3 +/- 0.9. 6. The PS20 and PD20 of angiotensin II were unchanged by any of the drugs. 7. Exercise heart rate was reduced by dilevalol 200 mg (130 +/- 13 beats min-1), 400 mg (123 +/- 12 beats min-1), 800 mg (125 +/- 9 beats min) and labetalol 200 mg (143 +/- 12 beats min-1) vs placebo (161 +/- 17 beats min-1). 8. Finger tremor was significantly increased by dilevalol 800 mg (13.17 +/- 10.51 vs 6.62 +/- 4.51 centivolts for placebo: P < 0.01). Neither phenylephrine nor angiotensin II had an effect on finger tremor. 9. In conclusion, dilevalol 200, 400 and 800 mg demonstrated beta 1-adrenoceptor antagonist activity with no evidence of alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist activity. Labetalol 200 and 400 mg showed both beta 1- and alpha 1-antagonist activity. Dilevalol 800 mg demonstrated significant partial beta 2-adrenoceptor agonist activity by increasing finger tremor.
Influences of carvedilol treatment on the effects of acetylcholine on regional haemodynamics in the spontaneously hypertensive rat.	1. In a previous report, we have shown that vasodilatation induced by acetylcholine is impaired in the kidney and the heart of the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) in vivo. The present investigation was performed to study the influence of oral antihypertensive treatment with carvedilol for 6 to 10 weeks on acetylcholine-induced changes in regional haemodynamics in SHR in vivo. Cardiac output, regional blood flow and vascular resistance in organs of major importance in hypertensive disease, such as the kidney, heart, skeletal muscle, brain and eye, were measured with radioactively labelled microspheres in anaesthetized rats (aged 12-16 weeks).2. Mean arterial blood pressure was significantly lower in the carvedilol-treated SHR group (156+/-3 mmHg, n=17) than in an untreated SHR group (172+/-6 mmHg, n=13). Infusion of acetylcholine (2 microgram.min-1.kg-1) caused similar significant reductions in blood pressure in the two groups (-13+/-1% and -14+/-2%). However, acetylcholine induced a significant increase in total peripheral vascular resistance in the carvedilol group (29+/-10%, P<0.01), whereas no significant change was observed in the control group (0+/-11%).3. Acetylcholine significantly increased renal vascular resistance in the carvedilol group (+62+/-15%, P<0.01), but did not change vascular resistance in the control group (-6+/-6%). In the heart, acetylcholine did not affect vascular resistance in the carvedilol group, but reduced vascular resistance significantly in the control group (-17+/-8%, P<0.05). The circulatory changes induced by acetylcholine in the skeletal muscle, brain and ophthalmic circulation did not differ between the groups.4. In conclusion, the results demonstrate that long-term oral carvedilol treatment in the SHR did not enhance acetylcholine-induced vasodilatation, but instead pronounced renal vasoconstriction was induced by acetylcholine, which could partly be due to a decreased cardiac index.
Ionic mechanism of the slow afterdepolarization induced by muscarinic receptor activation in rat prefrontal cortex.	The mammalian prefrontal cortex receives a dense cholinergic innervation from subcortical regions. We previously have shown that cholinergic stimulation of layer V pyramidal neurons of the rat prefrontal cortex results in a depolarization and the appearance of a slow afterdepolarization (sADP). In the current report we examine the mechanism underlying the sADP with the use of sharp microelectrode and whole cell recording techniques in in vitro brain slices. The ability of acetylcholine (ACh) and carbachol to induce the appearance of an sADP in pyramidal cells of layer V of prefrontal cortex is antagonized in a surmountable manner by atropine and is mimicked by application of muscarine or oxotremorine. These results indicate that ACh acts on muscarinic receptors to induce the sADP. In many cell types afterpotentials are triggered by calcium influx into the cell. Therefore we examined the possibility that calcium influx might be the trigger for the generation of the sADP. Consistent with this possibility, buffering intracellular calcium reduced or abolished the sADP but had little effect on the direct muscarinic receptor-induced depolarization also seen in these cells. These results, coupled to the previous observation that calcium channel blockers inhibit the sADP, indicated that the sADP results from a rise in intracellular calcium secondary to calcium influx into the cell. The ionic basis for the current underlying the sADP (IsADP) was examined with the use of ion substitution experiments. The amplitude of IsADP was found to be reduced in a graded fashion by replacement of extracellular sodium with N-methyl-D-glucamine (NMDG). In contrast no clear evidence for the involvement of potassium or chloride channels in the generation of the sADP or IsADP could be found. This result indicated that IsADP is carried by sodium ions flowing into the cell. However, the dependence of IsADP on extracellular sodium was less pronounced than expected for a pure sodium current. We interpret these results to indicate that the sADP is most likely mediated by nonselective cation channels. Examination of the current underlying the sADP at different voltages indicated that this current was also voltage dependent, turning off with hyperpolarization. We conclude that the sADP elicited by muscarinic receptor activation in rat cortex is mediated predominantly by a calcium- and voltage-sensitive nonselective cation current. This current could represent an important mechanism through which ACh can regulate neuronal excitability in prefrontal cortex.
Effect of treadmill exercise on transmural distribution of blood flow in hypertrophied left ventricle.	Pressure-overload left ventricular (LV) hypertrophy (LVH) is associated with increased vulnerability to subendocardial hypoperfusion during exercise. Abnormal perfusion could be the result of failure of the coronary vessels to grow in proportion to the degree of myocyte hypertrophy or could be due to increased extravascular forces acting on the intramural coronary vasculature. This study assessed the contribution of extravascular forces by examining the effect of exercise on the distribution of myocardial blood flow when coronary vasomotor tone was abolished with a maximal vasodilating dose of intracoronary adenosine. One year after ascending aortic banding in six dogs, the LV-to-body weight ratio was 7.80 +/- 0.38 g/kg compared with 4.57 +/- 0.20 g/kg in nine normal dogs (P < 0.01). Under awake resting conditions blood flow in LVH hearts increased from 1.17 +/- 0.27 ml . min-1 . g-1 during basal conditions to 5.78 +/- 1.06 ml . min-1 . g-1 during adenosine (at a coronary pressure of 100 +/- 6 mmHg), whereas in normal dogs blood flow increased from 1.22 +/- 0.17 to 5.26 +/- 0.71 ml . min-1 . g-1 (at a coronary pressure of 62 +/- 4 mmHg). At rest the transmural distribution of blood flow during adenosine was not different between hypertrophied and normal hearts, with subendocardial-to-subepicardial (Endo-to-Epi) blood flow ratios of 1. 01 +/- 0.09 and 1.14 +/- 0.13, respectively (P = not significant). During adenosine infusion, treadmill exercise to produce heart rates of 200-220 beats/min caused redistribution of blood flow away from the subendocardium that was much more marked in LVH (Endo-to-Epi blood flow ratio = 0.35 +/- 0.04) than in normal hearts (Endo-to-Epi blood flow ratio = 0.76 +/- 0.09, P < 0.05 vs. LVH). In comparison with normal, the exaggerated decrease in subendocardial blood flow produced by exercise in LVH hearts resulted from abnormally increased extravascular compressive forces, including a greater decrease in diastolic duration and an increase in LV end-diastolic pressure.
Effects of vasodilators and perfusion pressure on coronary flow and simultaneous release of nitric oxide from guinea pig isolated hearts.	The aims were to validate the use of a direct reading NO electrode, to compare the effects of diverse acting drugs on altering coronary flow (CF) and NO release, and to examine the effects of altered perfusion pressure on flow-induced changes in NO concentration [NO] in the hemoglobin free effluent of guinea pig isolated hearts.
Pharmacologic activation of the human coronary microcirculation in vitro: endothelium-dependent dilation and differential responses to acetylcholine.	In vivo studies of the human coronary resistance circulation cannot control for indirect effects of myocardial metabolism, compression, and neurohumoral influences. This study directly examined the vasodilator responses of the human coronary microcirculation to both receptor-dependent and -independent agonists.
In vivo cardiovascular reactivity and baroreflex activity in diabetic rats.	Abnormalities of the cardiovascular system, e.g. impaired vasoreactivity and changes in baroreflex control of heart rate, are known to occur in experimental diabetes. It is not clear whether these cardiovascular dysfunctions are direct consequences of cardiovascular deficits and/or have autonomic neuropathy as a cause.
Morphological and functional changes in coronary vessel evoked by repeated endothelial injury in pigs.	We examined the morphological changes induced by repeated endothelial denudation in coronary artery (CA), as well as functional changes in the endothelium-dependent and smooth muscle responses to various vasoactive agents during the process of intimal thickening.
Permissive effect of nitric oxide in arachidonic acid induced dilation in isolated rat arterioles.	Prostaglandins and nitric oxide play an important role in the regulation of arteriolar tone. L-Arginine analogues inhibit nitric oxide formation, but may also inhibit arachidonic-acid induced dilation. Nitric oxide was found to stimulate cyclooxygenase activity in cultured endothelial cells. Therefore, we hypothesized that the non-specific inhibition of prostaglandin-related dilation by L-arginine analogues is a consequence of the absence of nitric oxide.
Characterization of neurons in the area of the medullary lateral reticular nucleus responsive to noxious visceral and cutaneous stimuli.	In halothane-anesthetized rats, 283 caudal medullary neurons responsive to colorectal distension (CRD) were characterized using extracellular electrodes. Neurons inhibited by CRD (n = 82) were in the area dorsal to the lateral reticular nucleus (LRN). Most neurons excited by CRD (n = 130) were located within or immediately adjacent to the LRN, were excited by noxious heat and/or noxious pinch of at least half the body surface and were called bilateral nociceptive specific (bNS) neurons. bNS neurons had accelerating responses to graded CRD (threshold: 20 +/- 2 mmHg). Ten of twelve bNS neurons tested could be antidromically activated by electrical stimulation of the midline cerebellum. Other neurons excited by CRD (n = 71) had mixed responses to cutaneous stimuli and were generally located in the area dorsal to the LRN. Increases in blood pressure due to intravenous phenylephrine did not significantly alter the spontaneous activity of neurons excited by CRD, but altered spontaneous activity (12 excited, four inhibited) in all neurons tested which were inhibited by CRD. Decreases in blood pressure produced by intravenous nitroprusside produced a reciprocal response in most neurons inhibited by CRD and had a delayed onset (20-30 s after bolus administration) excitatory effect on 21 of 27 units excited by CRD. Combined with other studies, these data suggest a role for neurons within and adjacent to the LRN in the modulation of visceral nociception. They also implicate a role for the cerebellum in visceral nociceptive processing.
Role of B1 receptors in the endothelial protective effect of ischaemic preconditioning]	The aim of this study was to assess whether the cardioprotective effect of ischaemic preconditioning (IPC) on endothelial function in resistance coronary arteries of the rat involves activation of kinin receptors. Isolated rat hearts perfused under constant flow conditions were exposed to 30 min of partial ischaemia (flow rate 1 mL/min) followed by 20 min of reperfusion. Preconditioning was performed with 5 min zero-flow ischaemia and 10 min reperfusion before the 30-min ischaemia. After the 20-min reperfusion period, coronaries were precontracted with U-46619 0.1 microM, and the coronary response to the endothelium-dependent vasodilator, serotonin (5-HT, 10 microM), was compared to that of the endothelium-independent vasodilator, sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 3 microM). Kinin B1 and B2 receptors were blocked with perfusion of either [Lys0, Leu8, des-Arg0]-Bradykinin 30nM (LLDBK) or Hoe 140 10 nM (Hoe) respectively, started 15 min before IPC or a corresponding sham period and stopped just before the 20-min reperfusion period. In untreated hearts, ischemia diminished selectively 5-HT-induced vasodilatation, compared to sham hearts (without ischaemia). The vasodilatation by SNP was unaffected after ischaemia and reperfusion. Preconditioning in untreated hearts preserved the vasodilatation produced by 5-HT. Treatment of hearts with either Hoe or LLDBK had no effect on the vasodilatation produced by both 5-HT and SNP in sham hearts. Pre-treatment with Hoe did not block the protective effect of IPC on the 5-HT vasodilatation. LLDBK halved the protective effect of IPC on endothelium-dependent vasodilatation. In addition, the protective effect of BK on the endothelial function in the isolated rat heart was blocked by LLDBK. These results suggest that IPC and exogenous kinin perfusions afford protection to endothelial function in resistance coronary arteries of the rat partially by activation of B1 kinin receptors. B2 receptors do not play any role in that protection.
Adrenomedullin suppresses atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) secretion from isolated atrium.	Atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) secretion was studied using isolated perfused right atria prepared from rats. Adrenomedullin (ADM), a recently identified 52-amino acid peptide whose biological activity has a striking resemblance to that of ANF, was added to the perfusate at a concentration of 1 microg/ml. The concentration of ANF secreted into the perfusate was measured by radioimmunoassay, under basal conditions (atrial wall unstressed), and during atrial distention (intraluminal pressure raised to 4 and to 6 cm water). It was found that basal secretion of ANF was not altered by ADM. However, when intraluminal pressure was raised, there was a significantly smaller increase in ANF secretion in the ADM-infused atria than in the control atria. It is concluded that ADM significantly reduces stretch-induced secretion of ANF, while having only minimal effects on basal secretion. Such an inhibitory mechanism would ensure the necessary negative feedback mechanism to counter the previously-reported stimulatory actions of ANF on ADM secretion. Moreover, these results support the hypothesis that ADM could be responsible for the reduction in stretch-induced ANF release observed during pregnancy.
Nitroglycerin-induced aortic relaxation mediated by calcium-activated potassium channel is markedly diminished in hypertensive rats.	Nitroglycerin (NTG), a nitric oxide (NO) donor, is considered to relax vascular smooth muscle by stimulating soluble guanylate cyclase, which in turn increases cyclic GMP (cGMP) level. Recently it became evident that NO-induced vasodilatation is also mediated by stimulating Ca-activated K (K(Ca)) channels directly and/or indirectly through cGMP. We, therefore, tried to investigate the possible involvement or the alteration of K(Ca) channels in the mechanism of vasodilation induced by NTG in physiological and pathological conditions. Using rings prepared from thoracic aortas of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and those of age-matched Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY), we studied changes in isometric tension of the rings in response to NTG to evaluate effects of a soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor methylene blue (MB), and a specific blocker of K(Ca) channel charybdotoxin (CTX). Rings from WKY and SHR precontracted with norepinephrine showed similar aortic relaxation to NTG. MB markedly suppressed the NTG-induced relaxation in both strains, leaving about 30% of MB-resistant relaxation. CTX nearly completely eliminated this MB-resistant relaxation in WHY but did not affect this relaxation in SHR. These results suggest that NTG-induced vasorelaxation is mediated through i) cGMP-dependent and ii) cGM P-independent K(Ca) channel involving mechanisms, the latter may be diminished or virtually eliminated in hypertensive state.
Cold exposure enhances nitroxidergic nerve-mediated vasodilatation in canine nasal mucosa.	We have previously reported that there is non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic (NANC) innervation in canine nasal mucosa and that the relaxation response to electrical stimulation of the NANC nerve is mainly mediated by nitric oxide (NO). In the present study, we examined the effect of cold exposure (24 degrees C) on nitroxidergic nerve-mediated vasodilatation in isolated canine nasal mucosa. Nasal mucosa strips, prepared from canine nasal septum and moderately precontracted with methoxamine in the presence of atropine and guanethidine, relaxed in response to transmural electrical stimulation (square pulses of 0.5-msec duration, at 5 Hz and 25 V). The degree of relaxation at 24 degrees C (55.4+/-13.2% of methoxamine-induced contraction, mean+/-S.D., n=6) was significantly greater than that at 34 degrees C (33.8+/-8.6%, n=6). This phenomenon was reversible. In contrast, the magnitude of relaxation responses to an NO donor (sodium nitroprusside of 0.1 and 1 microM) remained unchanged by cold exposure. These results suggest that the release of NO from the nitroxidergic nerve endings is augmented by cold exposure and, thus, vasodilatation of the nasal blood vessel is enhanced, thereby contributing to the swelling of the nasal mucosa in cold conditions.
Potent, stereoselective, and brain region selective modulation of second messengers in the rat brain by (+)LY354740, a novel group II metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist.	LY354740 is a highly potent and selective agonist for recombinant Group II mGlu receptors (mGlu2 and mGlu3), which has anxiolytic and drug withdrawal alleviating properties when administered systemically in rats and mice. The modulation of second messengers by LY354740 in rat brain tissues was investigated to understand the cellular basis for the pharmacological and potential therapeutic actions of LY354740. LY354740 potently decreased forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation in slices of the adult rat hippocampus (EC50=22+/-3 nM) in a stereoselective manner. LY354740 (at 1 microM) greatly (>90%) suppressed forskolin-stimulated cAMP in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and striatum, while producing only partial suppression (about 50%) in midbrain regions and olfactory bulb, and no significant cAMP alterations in the cerebellum and brainstem regions. Inhibition of forskolin-stimulated cAMP formation was antagonized by (+)-alpha(-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine [(+)MCPG], a competitive mGlu receptor antagonist. LY354740 did not alter phosphoinositide hydrolysis in the rat hippocampus per se, but potentiated stimulation of phophoinositide hydrolysis by the Group I mGlu receptor selective agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (DHPG) or stimulation of cAMP formation by the adenosine receptor agonist 5'-N-ethylcarboxamideoadenosine (NECA). These data indicate that LY354740 is a highly potent, efficacious, and selective Group II mGlu receptor (mGlu 2/3) agonist in the rat brain. The potent, stereoselective, and brain region selective actions of LY354740 on mGlu receptor linked second messenger systems likely underlie the in vivo potency and stereoselectivity of this compound in animal models.
Potassium diet as a determinant for the renal response to systemic potassium channel modulation in anesthetized rats.	The role of potassium intake in the response of kidney function and plasma renin activity (PRA) to systemic application of U37883A (4-morpholinecarboximidine-N-1-adamantyl-N'-cyclohexyl-hydro chloride), a putative blocker of ATP-sensitive potassium channels (K(ATP)), and P1075 (N-cyano-N'-(1,1-dimethylpropyl)-N"-pyridylguanidine), an opener of K(ATP) channels, was studied in the anesthetized rat. It was found that under normal potassium diet (0.7% K), U37883A (15 mg/kg, i.v.) increased urinary flow rate (UV) and sodium excretion (UNaV), decreased urinary potassium excretion (UKV), and significantly diminished heart rate (HR) without affecting mean arterial blood pressure (MAP) or glomerular filtration rate (GFR). P1075 (10 microg/kg, i.v.) lowered UV, UNaV and UKV, at least in part due to the fall in MAP and GFR. PRA was diminished by U37883A and increased by P1075. Variation in potassium diet (0.04 or 2% K) left the response in MAP, HR or GFR to both potassium channel modulators essentially unchanged. The reduction in renal excretion rates to P1075 also appeared unaffected, further supporting a predominant role of the change in MAP and GFR in this response. Variation in potassium diet, however, elicited the following alterations: (1) under both low and high potassium diet U37883A did no longer cause a significant natriuresis; (2) U37883A elicited a significant kaliuresis under high potassium diet, whereas potassium excretion remained essentially unchanged on very low levels under low potassium diet; (3) the increase in PRA to P1075 was blunted under low potassium diet. Additional experiments provided evidence that P1075 releases renin from freshly isolated juxtaglomerular cells of rats on normal but not on low potassium diet. In summary, systemic potassium channel modulation employing U37883A or P1075, respectively, exerts distinct effects on blood pressure and heart rate independent of potassium diet. In contrast, potassium diet appears to be a determinant for the concomitant responses in plasma renin activity and renal sodium and potassium excretion.
Age-related changes in aortic sensitivity to noradrenaline and acetylcholine in rats.	1. The purpose of the present study was to determine the relationship between plasma and tissue lipid levels and the effects of age on vascular responses to noradrenaline (NA) and acetylcholine (ACh). 2. Studies were performed in young and aged rats and the response of endothelium-intact and -denuded aortic rings to NA and to ACh was measured. The plasma concentration of cholesterol (total, high-density lipoprotein (HDL) and low-density lipoprotein (LDL)) and 17 beta-oestradiol was determined, as was the aortic tissue content of phospholipids, cGMP and cholesterol (total, free and esterified). 3. Levels of all types of cholesterol in plasma and aorta increased with age; cholesterol levels in plasma correlated with those in the aorta; levels of phospholipid in the aorta did not increase with age but correlated with those of LDL cholesterol in plasma; levels of 17 beta-oestradiol did not change, but those of cGMP increased with age. 4. In endothelium-intact rings, the maximum tension developed by exposure to NA did not change, but the EC50 of NA increased with age and correlated with total cholesterol in the plasma and with the levels of all types of cholesterol in the aorta. In rings precontracted with NA, age decreased the maximum relaxation induced by ACh. The EC50 of ACh decreased with age and was inversely correlated with levels of cholesterol in the plasma and aorta. Treatment with NA increased cGMP levels in aged rats. Removal of the endothelium abolished the response to ACh and heightened the sensitivity to NA in young and aged rats. 5. Aortic endothelial cells seem to inhibit amine-induced contraction, while age-related changes in the levels of cholesterol in aortic tissue affect the sensitivity of the tissue to NA and ACh.
Effects of nitric oxide synthase inhibition and endothelin ETA receptor blockade on haemodynamics in hypertensive rats.	1. The objectives of the present study were to study regional differences in haemodynamics between spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) rats induced by the nitric oxide synthase (NOS) inhibitor NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) and the endothelin ETA receptor antagonist BQ 123 in vivo in tissues known to be important for blood pressure (BP) regulation (heart, kidney and skeletal muscle). Furthermore, the effect of acetylcholine (ACh) infusion (2 micrograms/kg per min) was examined after L-NMMA or BQ 123. The microsphere method was used for determinations of cardiac index (CI) and regional haemodynamics. 2. NG-Monomethyl-L-arginine (20 mg/kg) increased BP (26-48%; P < 0.01) and reduced CI in both rat strains. BQ 123 (1 mg/kg) reduced BP slightly (-4 to 11%; P < 0.05). 3. NG-Monomethyl-L-arginine significantly increased myocardial and skeletal muscle vascular resistance in SHR only; however, in the kidney, L-NMMA reduced blood flow and increased vascular resistance in both rat strains. 4. BQ 123 induced minor changes in regional haemodynamics that were not significantly different between the two strains. 5. Acetylcholine following BQ 123 induced an increase in myocardial blood flow in WKY rats, but decreased blood flow in SHR. Acetylcholine following L-NMMA reduced myocardial blood flow in both strains. 6. Acetylcholine following BQ 123 induced renal vasodilation in WKY rats but, following L-NMMA, ACh did not induce renal vasodilation in either rat strain. In contrast, L-NMMA did not abolish the vasodilation of acetylcholine in skeletal muscle in WKY rats. 7. In conclusion, the contribution of nitric oxide to basal vessel tone was not impaired in the heart, skeletal muscle and kidney in SHR. Antagonism of ETA receptors caused similar haemodynamic responses in both rat strains in these organs. Furthermore, NOS inhibition, but not ETA blockade, blunted the expected ACh-induced vasodilation in the heart and kidney in WKY rats, but not in skeletal muscle in both strains.
Autacoid interactions in the regulation of blood flow in the human placenta.	1. Interactions between autacoids may play important roles in the regulation of blood flow in the foetal placenta. In order to investigate this aspect of placental haemodynamics, human normal-term placentae were perfused in vitro and the responses of the foetal vessels to various combinations of vasoactive agents were determined. 2. Vasoconstriction responses to 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) were potentiated in the presence of endothelin-1 (ET-1), the thromboxane A2-mimetic U46619 and a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, N-nitro-L-arginine (NOLA), but not in the presence of angiotensin II. 3. N-Nitro-L-arginine caused vasoconstriction of the perfused placenta and indomethacin attenuated this effect and blocked the potentiation of the 5-HT response by NOLA. 4. Indomethacin did not affect ET-1-induced pressure increases and infusion of U46619 had no effect on release of ET-like immunoreactivity into the foetal placental circulation. 5. The present study provides evidence of interactions between several autacoids in human perfused placentae in vitro. These interactions may play important roles in foetal placental haemodynamics in normal or pathological situations.
Hemodynamic effects of transurethral alprostadil measured by color duplex ultrasonography in men with erectile dysfunction.	We evaluated the hemodynamic effects of transurethral alprostadil in 21 patients with erectile dysfunction using color duplex ultrasonography.
Use of nitroglycerin for uterine relaxation.	Data from human and experimental animal research indicate that nitric oxide (NO), a novel messenger, formed during the nitric oxide synthase-catalyzed oxidation of L-arginine to L-citrulline, is involved in maintaining normal uterine tone during gestation. There are demonstrated and potential benefits of manipulating the L-arginine-NO system during pregnancy. Several recent case reports and case series have described the effective use of nitroglycerin (GTN), a NO donor compound, antenatally, intrapartum, and postpartum for acute uterine relaxation. Therapeutic indications for GTN range from facilitating external cephalic version, difficult vaginal or cesarean section delivery, and manual exploration of the uterus, to its use as a tocolytic. The intravenous regimen of GTN required to obtain the desired degree of uterine relaxation is extremely variable; intravenous bolus doses of 50 micrograms to 500 micrograms GTN with up to three repeated injections of 50 micrograms to 250 micrograms have been reported. Other methods of GTN administration include transdermal patches and sublingual spray. GTN, when used in low doses, may provide safe and effective uterine relaxation with no clinically apparent fetal or maternal adverse effects. However, clinical trials with use of objective methods of evaluating uterine tone and comparing GTN to other tocolytic agents are required before widespread use in advocated.
Troglitazone, an insulin sensitizer, increases forearm blood flow in humans.	To test whether troglitazone, a thiazolidinedione insulin sensitizer, increases the peripheral blood flow, the changes in forearm blood flow (FBF) were evaluated by venous occlusion plethysmography in 11 lean healthy male volunteers (age range, 24 to 39 years) after a single oral dose of 200 mg of troglitazone. Forearm vascular resistance (FVR) was calculated from FBF and blood pressure. Two hours after the dose, FBF increased from 3.66+/-0.31 to 4.81+/-0.57 mL/100 mL/min (P < .01), and FVR decreased from 24.7+/-2.2 to 20.2+/-2.2 units (P < .01), whereas both these values did not change during the control recordings obtained without troglitazone. Blood pressure, blood glucose levels, and serum immunoreactive insulin levels did not change significantly during the observation period. Serum concentrations of nitrate ions decreased from 27.0+/-3.5 mmol/L to 23.1+/-2.7 mmol/L (P < .01) after the administration. These results suggest that troglitazone increases muscular blood flow through vasodilation induced by a mechanism other than the correction of hyperinsulinemia or the increase in nitric oxide. The present study provides the first evidence that troglitazone dilates the vasculature in humans.
Effects of short-term forearm exercise training on resistance vessel endothelial function in normal subjects and patients with heart failure.	Exercise training improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation in animals. This study was designed to determine whether forearm exercise training improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation in control subjects and patients with heart failure, a disease associated with abnormal endothelium-dependent vasodilation.
Different bronchial responsiveness to Ach between normal and OA-sensitized guinea pigs after acoustic stress: a role for adenosine.	Noise-exposure makes non-sensitized guinea pigs hyporesponsive to Acetylcholine (Ach), while in Ovalbumin (OA)-sensitized guinea pigs the responsiveness to the cholinergic mediator is not modified by acoustic stress (Nieri et al., 1996). The occurrence of bronchial hyporesponsiveness after acoustic stress in non-sensitized guinea pigs was verified also with histamine, obtaining a result similar to that observed with Ach. Moreover, the role of adenosine as modulator of the bronchial responsiveness to Ach after noise-exposure was assessed both in normal and in sensitized guinea pigs. In non-sensitized noise-exposed guinea pigs, the hyporesponsiveness to Ach was abolished by pretreatment of the animals with the peripheral A1/A2 antagonist 8-p-(sulfophenyl)theophylline (8-pSPT, 3 mg/kg i.v.) or with the A2-selective blocker 3,7-dimethyl-1-propargylxanthine (DMPX, 80 microg/kg i.v.) but not with the A1-selective antagonist Xanthine Amine Congener (XAC, 0.1 mg/kg i.v.). In sensitized guinea pigs, pretreatment with theophylline (25 mg/kg i.v.) makes noise-exposed animals again hyporesponsive to Ach, while no effect was obtained with the selective A1 and A2 antagonists employed. Also enprofylline (10 mg/kg i.v.), a phosphodiesterase inhibitor more potent than theophylline, does not modify the responsiveness to Ach in sensitized noise-exposed guinea pigs. The overall data presented suggest the involvement of the peripheral purinergic system in the regulation of airway reactivity after the stressful condition and indicate an altered functionality of this system as a consequence of sensitization. Furthermore, noise-exposure makes it possible to reveal in guinea pigs an opposite influence by theophylline on airway responsiveness to Ach, in sensitized, with respect to normal, animals.
A comparative study of eccentric and concentric coronary stenosis vasomotion in patients with Prinzmental's variant angina and patients with stable angina pectoris.	In patients with stable angina pectoris, eccentric stenoses have a greater potential for dynamic changes of caliber in response to vasoactive stimuli than concentric lesions. It is not known whether in patients with coronary artery spasm the degree of coronary vasoconstriction differs in eccentric versus concentric stenoses. Therefore, we examined the relationship between coronary stenosis morphology and the vasomotor response to vasoactive stimuli in patients with variant angina.
Amiodarone causes endothelium-dependent vasodilation in human hand veins in vivo.	Amiodarone, a class III antiarrhythmic agent, is a potent coronary vasodilator. However, direct evidence for its vasodilatory effects in human vasculature in vivo is not available. The aim of the study was to investigate the short-term effects of amiodarone in preconstricted human hand veins and to explore the underlying mechanisms.
Cardiovascular effects of dietary salts and isosorbide-5-mononitrate in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	The influence of isosorbide-5-mononitrate (IS-5-MN) on the cardiovascular effects of high dietary salt intake (NaCl, 6.6% of dry weight of food) and that of a potassium, magnesium and l-lysine-enriched salt alternative (Pansalt 10.5%, producing a 6.6% content of NaCl) was studied in spontaneously hypertensive rats in an 8-week experiment. Common salt produced a marked rise in blood pressure and induced cardiac and renal hypertrophy, while the salt alternative, although containing the same amount of NaCl, neither increased blood pressure nor caused any significant cardiac hypertrophy. IS-5-MN treatment at a daily dose of approximately 60-70 mg/kg (mixed with food) attenuated the rise in blood pressure induced by common salt, but did not prevent the cardiac or renal hypertrophy. IS-5-MN did not offer any additional benefit to the use of the salt alternative diet alone in treatment of high blood pressure. Mesenteric arterial responses in vitro were examined at the end of the study. IS-5-MN treatment during the moderately low-salt (NaCl 0.7%) control diet tended to decrease the contractile response to noradrenaline and increase the relaxation to acetylcholine. Common salt, but not the salt alternative, induced a 50% increase in the 24-h urinary excretion of cyclic GMP. Both salt supplements induced an 8-9-fold increase in the excretion of calcium, and about a 2-fold increase in the excretion of phosphorus. Common salt also increased the excretion of magnesium by 50%. IS-5-MN treatment had no significant effect on the excretion of the mineral elements. Our findings show that increased intake of potassium and magnesium reduces the harmful effects of common salt. Pressure-independent mechanisms are involved in salt-induced left ventricular and renal hypertrophy, since they remained unaffected despite the prevention of the salt-induced rise in blood pressure by IS-5-MN treatment.
A major role for prostacyclin in nitric oxide-induced ocular vasorelaxation in the piglet.	We studied the mechanisms of retinal and choroidal vasorelaxation elicited by nitric oxide (NO) using piglet eyes. The NO donors sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and diethylamine-NONOate caused comparable concentration-dependent relaxation that was partially (approximately 40%) attenuated by the guanylate cyclase inhibitors methylene blue and LY83583 and reduced to a lesser extent (approximately 25%) by the inhibitor of cGMP-dependent kinase, KT 5823. In contrast, NO-induced dilatation (by NO donors and endogenous NO after stimulation with bradykinin) was substantially (approximately 70%) diminished by the KCa channel blockers tetraethylammonium (TEA), charybdotoxin, and iberiotoxin; by the cyclooxygenase inhibitors indomethacin and ibuprofen; by the prostaglandin I (PGI2) synthase inhibitor trans-2-phenyl cyclopropylamine (TPC); and by the removal of endothelium; whereas relaxation of endothelium-denuded vasculature to SNP was unaltered by indomethacin, TPC, and charybdotoxin but was nearly nullified by methylene blue and the Kv channel blocker 4-aminopyridine. NO donors significantly increased PGI2 synthesis and the putative PGI2 receptor-coupled second messenger cAMP, from ocular vasculature (retinal microvessels and choroidal perfusate), and this increase in PGI2 formation was markedly reduced by TPC, tetraethylammonium, charybdotoxin, and/or the removal of endothelium, but it was only slightly reduced by methylene blue and LY83583. Also, SNP and KCa channel openers NS1619 and NS004 caused an increase in PGI2 synthesis in cultured endothelial cells, which was virtually abolished by KCa blockers. Finally, vasorelaxation to a cGMP analogue, 8-bromo cGMP, and protein kinase G stimulant beta-phenyl-1,N2-etheno-8-bromoguanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate was mostly Kv dependent and, in contrast to NO, largely unrelated to PGI2 formation. In conclusion, data indicate that NO-induced ocular vasorelaxation is partly mediated by cGMP through its action on smooth muscle, and more importantly, by stimulating PGI2 formation of endothelial origin via a mechanism mostly independent of guanylate cyclase, which involves the opening of a KCa channel.
Captopril, but not nifedipine, improves endothelium-dependent vasodilation in hypertensive patients.	The present study aimed to investigate the influence of the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE)-inhibitor captopril and the Ca-antagonist nifedipine on endothelium-dependent vasodilation (EDV) in the forearm of hypertensive patients. Twenty-three middle-aged untreated hypertensive patients underwent evaluation of EDV and endothelium-independent vasodilation (EIDV) in the forearm, by means of local intra-arterial infusions of methacholine (MCh, evaluating EDV) and sodium-nitroprusside (SNP, evaluating EIDV), before and 1 h after intake of either captopril (25 mg) or nifedipine (10 mg) in a randomised, double-blind fashion. A matched normotensive control group was investigated at baseline conditions only. Five of the hypertensives were also evaluated after 3 months of treatment with captopril 25 mg twice daily in an open pilot study. First, the vasodilation induced by methacholine (MCh), but not SNP, was significantly attenuated in the hypertensive patients compared to the normotensive controls (P < 0.001 at MCh 4 microg/min). Second, although the two drugs induced a similar decline in blood pressure (BP) 1 h after administration (-11 to 10 mm Hg/-8 to 7 mm Hg), captopril significantly potentiated the vasodilator response to MCh (+32+/-13%, MCh 4 micr og/min, P < 0.01) but not SNP, while nifedipine did not significantly alter the response to either MCh or SNP. The improvement in vasodilator response to MCh induced by captopril was closely related to the reduction in BP (r = 0.72, P < 0.01). Third, in the pilot study, 3 months of captopril treatment induced a significant potentiation of the vasodilator response to MCh (+34+/-17%, MCh 4 microg/min, P < 0.05) in parallel with a significant BP reduction (-22+/-24/13+/-13 mm Hg, P < 0.05), while the response to SNP was unchanged. In conclusion, the present study confirmed that essential hypertension is associated with a defect in EDV. Furthermore, an improvement in EDV was seen in hypertensive patients shortly after administration of captopril, but not nifedipine. In addition, a significant beneficial effect on EDV was seen in a small pilot study during long-term treatment with captopril.
The difference in the inhibitory mechanisms of papaverine on vascular and intestinal smooth muscles.	Papaverine (0.3-100 microM) more potently inhibited phenylephrine (1 microM)-induced contraction than 65 mM K+-induced contraction of the aorta, while it equally inhibited contractions induced by 65 mM K+ and carbachol (1 microM) in ileal smooth muscle. In phenylephrine-treated aorta, papaverine (1-10 microM) increased the cAMP and cGMP content. However, in carbachol-treated ileum, 30 microM papaverine partially increased the cAMP content while it maximally relaxed the preparation. In fura2-loaded aorta, papaverine (0.3-10 microM) inhibited both the contraction and the increase in intracellular Ca2+ level ([Ca2+]i) induced by phenylephrine in parallel. However, papaverine inhibited carbachol-induced contraction with only a small decrease in [Ca2+]i. Papaverine (1-30 microM) inhibited the carbachol-induced increase in oxidized flavoproteins, an indicator of increased mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, in ileal smooth muscle whereas it did not change the phenylephrine-induced increase in the aorta. These results suggest that papaverine inhibits smooth muscle contraction mainly by the accumulation of cAMP and/or cGMP due to the inhibition of phosphodiesterase in the aorta whereas, in ileal smooth muscle, papaverine inhibits smooth muscle contraction mainly by the inhibition of mitochondrial respiration.
Effects of the optical isomers of verapamil on electrophysiological properties of the heart in conscious dogs.	We compared the cumulative dose-response relations of verapamil (0.1, 0.2 and 0.4 mg kg(-1)) in different R/S enantiomer ratios (100/0, 90/10, 80/20, 50/50 and 20/80) on the electrophysiological and hemodynamic characteristics of the heart using the conscious dogs. A reduction of mean arterial pressure occurred with 20R/80S producing a 3-times greater decrease than 100R/0S, but an increase in heart rate occurred with 20R/80S producing a 9-times greater increase than 100R/0S. Increased heart rate was concurrent with decreased mean arterial pressure most prevalent with a higher ratio of S-isomer that produced a greater reduction in mean arterial pressure and increase in heart rate at lower overall verapamil doses. Atrio-ventricular conduction time increased 3-5 min after each infusion, with 20R/80S producing a 4-times greater effect than 100R/0S. These results indicate that the peripheral and cardiac electrophysiologic properties of various nonracemic verapamil mixtures are mainly attributable to the concentration of S-isomer.
I1-imidazoline receptors and cholinergic outflow to the airways.	We examined the role of I1-imidazoline receptors in the control of airway function, by testing the effects of systemic administration of the I1-imidazoline agonist moxonidine on reflex responses of tracheal smooth muscle (TSM) tone to either lung deflation or mechanical stimulation of intrapulmonary rapidly adapting receptors. Experiments were performed in either alpha-chloralose anaesthetized or decorticate, paralyzed and mechanically ventilated beagle dogs. Moxonidine (10-100 microg/kg) administered via three different routes (the femoral vein, muscular branch of superior thyroid artery, and vertebral artery) attenuated TSM responses to stimulation of airway sensory nerve fibers by two different ways, and caused a decrease in arterial pressure and heart rate. These effects were dose-dependent, and were significantly reversed by efaroxan (an I1-imidazoline and alpha2-adrenergic blocker) administered via the vertebral artery. Intravertebral efaroxan abolished the hemodynamic effects of moxonidine. Intravenous moxonidine (10-100 microg/kg) did not alter airway smooth muscle responses to electrical stimulation of the peripheral vagus nerve. In addition, in vitro moxonidine (1-100 microg/ml) had no effect on contractile responses to increasing doses of acetylcholine. These findings indicate that moxonidine may act at a central site to suppress reflex airway constriction, even when given into the systemic circulation. Given the presence of I1-imidazoline sites and alpha2-adrenergic receptors in brain regions participating in airway reflexes, these receptor classes may be involved in brainstem control of the cholinergic outflow to the airways.
Cholinergic vasoregulation in normal and adjuvant monoarthritic rat knee joints.	The role of cholinergic nerves in joint vasomotor control was investigated in normal and chronically inflamed rat knees. Joint inflammation was induced by unilateral intraarticular injection of Freund's complete adjuvant and experiments were performed on both the ipsilateral and contralateral joints one and three weeks after treatment. Blood flow measurements of the exposed joints were obtained using a laser Doppler perfusion imager which provides relative changes in tissue perfusion. One week after adjuvant induction, basal perfusion in both ipsilateral and contralateral joints was significantly reduced compared to normal. At three weeks, ipsilateral knee perfusion had returned to normal, however, contralateral blood flow showed no such sign of recovery. Topical application of the muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine caused a fall in knee joint basal perfusion suggesting that cholinergic nerves are inherently involved in the physiological control of rat knee blood vessels. Acetylcholine chloride (10(-13)-10(-8) mol) in normal rats produced a dose-dependent vasodilatation of the articular microvasculature with the highest dose causing blood flow to increase by about 85%. This dilator response was attenuated in the ipsilateral monoarthritic joint at both one and three weeks post-injection while contralateral joints showed a normal response to acetylcholine at both of the time points tested. This study implicates cholinergic nerves in rat knee joint vasoregulation, however, the impairment of this mechanism by chronic inflammation could exacerbate the disease process by starving the joint of much needed vascular nourishment. Furthermore, the preservation of cholinergic responses in the contralateral knee despite a fall in basal perfusion suggests that alternative non-cholinergic mechanisms may be responsible for the hypoaemia in this joint.
Functional determination of oxytocin affinity in near-term pregnant rat myometrium: effect of chronic hypoxia.	We designed the present study to determine: (1) if phenoxybenzamine can be used as an irreversible blocker for oxytocin receptors, and as such to determine oxytocin affinity, (2) if prolonged hypoxic exposure alters oxytocin receptor coupling efficacy of oxytocin receptors to post-receptor mediated mechanisms in the rat myometrium. Rats were exposed to room air (control), or to continuous hypoxia (10.5% O2) from day 19 through day 21 (2-day exposure). On day 21, one uterine horn was removed and used for in vitro study of myometrial contractile responses to oxytocin, while the other was used for oxytocin receptor analysis. In normoxic tissues, phenoxybenzamine (20 microM) decreased the maximum contractile response (EMAX) to oxytocin (155+/-17 vs. 66+/-19 g s/cm2) and oxytocin binding sites (BMAX: 253+/-35 vs. 114.9+/-21.3 fmol/mg protein). A similar degree of reduction in EMAX and BMAX were observed in hypoxic tissues. The oxytocin dissociation constant (KA) in the normoxic rat was 2.8+/-0.7 nM, which was not different from the chronic hypoxic rat (3.3+/-0.9 nM). Analysis of receptor occupancy-response curves indicated no oxytocin receptor reserve in both normoxic and hypoxic myometrium. However, for a given fraction of the total oxytocin receptors occupied, hypoxic tissue elicited a lower contractile response to oxytocin. We conclude that: (1) phenoxybenzamine is a useful tool to functionally study oxytocin receptor kinetics, (2) prolonged hypoxic exposure does not affect the oxytocin affinity, (3) no spare receptors for oxytocin are present in the rat myometrium, and (4) prolonged exposure to hypoxia decreases oxytocin receptor-effector coupling efficiency in rat myometrium.
In vitro comparison of two NONOates (novel nitric oxide donors) on rat pulmonary arteries.	The pulmonary vasorelaxant properties of two NONOates (diazeniumdiolates) were examined because this novel group of nitric oxide (NO) donors may be useful in pulmonary hypertension. MAHMA NONOate ((Z)-1-N-Methyl-N-[6-(N-methylammoniohexyl)amino] diazen-1-ium-1,2-diolate) and spermine NONOate ((Z)- 1-N-[3-aminopropyl]-N-[4-(3-aminopropylammonio)butyl]-aminodi azen-1-ium-1,2-diolate) decomposed at different rates (half-lives 1.3 min and 73 min, respectively; 37 degrees C, pH 7.3) but generated the same total amount of NO. They fully relaxed submaximally contracted ring preparations of main and intralobar pulmonary arteries from rats. Responses were inhibited by the guanylate cyclase inhibitor, ODQ (1H-[1,2,4]Oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one). Potency was not affected by choice of contractile spasmogen (phenylephrine, endothelin-1, thromboxane-mimetic) or endothelium removal, and tolerance did not develop; thus the drugs had properties important for use in pulmonary hypertension. MAHMA NONOate was 10-40-fold more potent than spermine NONOate but responses to spermine NONOate were more sustained (spermine NONOate > 60 min; MAHMA NONOate < 7 min). It is concluded that the differences in potency and time-course reflect the different rates of NO generation by these NONOates.
Effect of CRF and related peptides on calcium signaling in human and rodent melanoma cells.	Corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) induces a rapid, within seconds, and dose-dependent increase in the intracellular Ca2+ in both human and hamster melanoma cells. This effect is inhibited by depletion of extracellular calcium using 3 mM EGTA and is attenuated by the CRF receptor antagonist, alpha-helical-CRF(9-41). Other peptides of the CRF superfamily, sauvagine and urocortin, also induce increases in cytoplasmic calcium concentration but at higher concentrations than CRF. We conclude that malignant melanocytes express CRF receptors, which are coupled to activation of plasma membrane calcium channels.
The effect of magnesium sulphate on hemodynamics and its efficacy in attenuating the response to endotracheal intubation in patients with coronary artery disease.	Laryngoscopy and endotracheal intubation may produce adverse hemodynamic effects. Magnesium has direct vasodilating properties on coronary arteries and inhibits catecholamine release, thus attenuating the hemodynamic effects during endotracheal intubation. We studied 36 patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) scheduled for elective coronary artery bypass grafting to evaluate the hemodynamic effects of magnesium and its efficacy in attenuating the response to endotracheal intubation. Patients received either 0.1 mL/kg (50%) magnesium sulfate (50 mg/kg) (Group A, n = 19) or isotonic sodium chloride solution (Group B, n = 17) before the induction of anesthesia and 0.05 mL/kg of isotonic sodium chloride solution (Group A) or lidocaine 2% (1 mg/kg) (Group B) before intubation. The hemodynamic variables were recorded before induction, after the trial drug, after induction, and after endotracheal intubation. Automatic ST segment analysis was performed throughout the study period. Magnesium sulfate administration was associated with increased cardiac index (P < 0.01), a minimal increase in heart rate, and a significant decrease in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and systemic vascular resistance (SVR) (P < 0.001). None of the patients in the magnesium group had significant ST depression compared with three patients in the control group. The magnesium group patients had a significantly lesser increase in MAP (P < 0.05) and SVR (P < 0.01) compared with the control group patients who received lidocaine before endotracheal intubation. Thus, magnesium is an useful adjuvant to attenuate endotracheal intubation response in patients with CAD.
The adenosine-triphosphate-sensitive potassium-channel opener pinacidil is effective in blood cardioplegia.	This study was designed to evaluate the adenosine-triphosphate-sensitive potassium channel opener pinacidil as a blood cardioplegic agent.
The role of adenosine and ATP-sensitive potassium channels in the protection afforded by ischemic preconditioning against the post-ischemic endothelial dysfunction in guinea-pig hearts.	The role of adenosine and ATP-sensitive potassium channels (KATP) in the mechanism of ischemic preconditioning (IPC)-induced protection against the post-ischemic endothelial dysfunction was studied. Langendorff-perfused guinea-pig hearts were subjected either to 40 min of global ischemia and 40 min reperfusion or were preconditioned prior to the ischemia/reperfusion with three cycles of either 5 min ischemia/5 min reperfusion (IPC) or 5 min infusion/5 min wash-out of adenosine, adenosine A1 receptor agonist, N6-cyclohexyladenosine (CHA) or KATP opener, pinacidil. The magnitude of coronary flow reduction caused by NO-synthase inhibitor, Nomega-nitro-l-arginine methyl ester (l-NAME), served as an index of a basal endothelium-dependent vasodilator tone. Coronary overflows produced by a bolus of acetylcholine (ACh) and sodium nitroprusside (SNP) were used as measures of agonist-induced endothelium-dependent and endothelium-independent vascular function, respectively. The coronary flow, LVDP, ACh response and l-NAME response were reduced by 8, 32, 41 and 54%, respectively, while SNP response was not changed in the hearts subjected to ischemia/reperfusion. ACh response was fully restored, l-NAME response was partially restored, and SNP response was not affected in the hearts subjected to IPC. The post-ischemic recoveries of coronary flow and LVDP were not improved by IPC. The protective effect of IPC on the ACh response was mimicked by adenosine, CHA, and pinacidil. The protective effect of IPC, CHA and pinacidil was abolished by KATP antagonist, glibenclamide. The IPC protection was affected neither by a non-specific adenosine antagonist, 8-p-sulfophenyltheophylline, nor by a specific adenosine A1 receptor antagonist, 8-cyclopentyl-1, 3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX). Our data indicate that: (1) IPC affords endothelial protection in the mechanism that involves activation of KATP, but not adenosine A1 receptors; (2) exogenous adenosine and A1 receptor agonist afford the protection, which might be of a potential clinical significance; (3) the endothelial dysfunction is not involved in the mechanism of myocardial stunning in guinea-pig hearts.
Airway structure and function in Eisenmenger's syndrome.	The responsiveness of airways from patients with Eisenmenger's syndrome (n = 5) was compared with that in airways from organ donors (n = 10). Enhanced contractile responses to cholinergic stimulation were found in airways from patients with Eisenmenger's syndrome. The maximal responses to acetylcholine, carbachol, and parasympathetic nerve stimulation in airway tissue from these patients were 221%, 139%, and 152%, respectively, of the maximal responses obtained in donor tissue. Further, relaxation responses to isoproterenol and levocromakalim were absent (n = 2) or markedly impaired (n = 3) in airways from patients with Eisenmenger's syndrome. This attenuated relaxation response was nonspecific in that it was also absent after vasoactive intestinal peptide, sodium nitroprusside, papaverine, and electrical field application. These observations can most likely be explained by a decrease in intrinsic smooth muscle tone, as precontraction of airways revealed relaxation responses that were equivalent to those obtained in donor tissues. Morphometric analysis of tissues used for the functional studies revealed no differences in the airway dimensions (internal perimeter) or airway wall components (e.g., smooth muscle, cartilage) or total area to explain these observations. Although the mechanism for this observed decrease in intrinsic airway smooth muscle tone is not certain, it may be due to alteration in the substructure of the airway wall or, alternatively, may result from the continued release of depressant factors in the vicinity of the smooth muscle which permanently alters smooth muscle responsiveness.
The influence of 3-month treatment with molsidomine on structure, function and some neurohormonal parameters in patients with chronic heart failure treated with digoxin, diuretic and angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors]	The aim of the study was to estimate the influence of long-term treatment with molsidomine on structure, systolic function and neurohormonal parameters in patients with chronic heart failure (CHF). Investigations were carried out in 30 patients (mean age 63.0 +/- 10.9) in NYHA class III and IV. The cause of CHF was: coronary artery disease in 60% of patients, hypertension in 20% and dilated cardiomyopathy in 20% of patients. Molsidomine was administrated in dose of 2 mg tid for 3 months. During the study the previous treatment with ACEI, diuretics and digitalis was maintained. Using echocardiographic method left atrial dimension (LA), left ventricular end diastolic (LVEDD) and end systolic diameter (LVESD), interventricular septum (IVSDD) and posterior wall end diastolic diameter (LVPWDD), ejection fraction (LVEF) and fraction of shortening (LVFS) were measured. Plasma level of atrial natriuretic peptide, endotelin, neuropeptide Y and aldosterone and plasma renin activity were estimated radioimmunologically. All echocardiographic and neurohormonal measures were performed 4 times: before therapy, after 3 days, 2 weeks and 3 months of treatment with molsidomine. We observed significant increase in LVEF, which at baseline was 33.8% and after 3 months 44.8% (p < 0.05). None of the other echocardiographic parameters nor any of neurohormonal factors changed significantly during the 3-months treatment with molsidomine.
Effect of nitric oxide on rat adrenal zona fasciculata steroidogenesis.	The present study was designed to investigate the role of nitric oxide (NO) in the regulation of adrenocortical function. Different NO donors, such as sodium nitroprusside (SNP), S-nitroso-L-acetyl penicillamine, diethylamine/NO complex sodium salt and diethylenetriamine NO adduct, significantly decreased corticosterone production both in unstimulated and in corticotropin-stimulated zone fasciculata adrenal cells, in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of SNP was reversed by ferrous hemoglobin. A selective inhibitor of NO synthase, L-NG-nitro-arginine significantly increased corticosterone secretion. The effect of SNP was not mediated by cGMP as permeable cGMP analogs did not reproduce its inhibitory effect. SNP significantly inhibited the steroidogenesis stimulated by 8Br-cAMP and 22(R)-OH-cholesterol, but was ineffective when corticosterone was produced in the presence of exogenously added pregnenolone. Moreover, the conversion of [3H]cholesterol to [3H]pregnenolone and the production of pregnenolone or progesterone (assessed by RIA) were significantly decreased by SNP. Taken together, these results suggest that NO may be a negative modulator of adrenal zona fasciculata steroidogenesis.
Acetylcholine is a vasodilator of porcine skeletal muscle arteries.	The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that porcine skeletal muscle arteries exhibit concentration-dependent vasodilation in response to acetylcholine (ACH) as observed in other mammals. We conducted three experiments. First, vasorelaxation responses to ACH were examined in isolated segments of femoral and brachial arteries, mounted on myographs and studied in vitro. Second, we determined whether resistance arteries from porcine skeletal muscle exhibit vasodilation in response to ACH by isolating second order arterioles (2-A) from the medial (MHT), deep-long (LOH) and lateral (LAT) heads of the triceps brachii muscles of four pigs. The rationale for selection of arterioles from these muscles was that these muscles represent muscles composed primarily of slow-oxidative, fast-oxidative-glycolytic, and fast-glycolytic muscle fiber types, respectively. 2-As were isolated and cannulated with micropipettes and intraluminal pressure set at 60 cm H2O. In both sets of in vitro experiments, we determined responses to an endothelium-independent dilator, sodium nitroprusside (10(-10)-10(-4) M), and to endothelium-dependent agents ACH (10(-10)-10(-4) M), and bradykinin (BK; 10(-11)-10(-6) M). Third, we used transcutaneous ultrasound imaging to measure changes in artery diameters and Doppler-principle measurements of blood flow velocities to estimate changes in total blood flow in the femoral vascular bed. Results reveal that ACH and BK produced similar vasorelaxation responses in femoral and brachial arteries and vasodilation of skeletal muscle 2-As. Also, ACH produced increases in blood flow and decreases in vascular resistance in the femoral vascular bed. These results indicate that the arterial tree of porcine skeletal muscle exhibits ACH-induced, endothelium-dependent vasodilation.
Vascular control of nutrient delivery by flow redistribution within muscle: implications for exercise and post-exercise muscle metabolism.	There is evidence for non-nutritive flow routes within, or associated with, skeletal muscle. Large capillary-like structures are possible candidates. The proportion of flow distributed between nutritive and non-nutritive routes appears to be tightly regulated and can control muscle metabolism and contraction by regulating delivery and product removal. The portion of flow that is carried by the non-nutritive routes at rest affords a flow reserve for amplifying nutrient delivery as muscle begins to work and may determine post-exercise metabolism. Inappropriate signals, however, may diminish nutritive flow to the detriment of muscle performance and post-exercise recovery. New technologies should allow the identification of the non-nutritive routes.
A K+ single channel and whole-cell clamp study on the effects of levocromakalim in guinea pig portal vein cells.	Single channel cell-attached patch and whole-cell clamp experiments on the mode of action of the K+ channel opener (KCO), levcromakalim, were performed in guinea pig isolated portal vein cells. At +20 mV (135/23 mM K+ in bath/pipette), 10 microM levcromakalim activated K+ channels with a chord conductance of 23.2 pS (K(KCO)), which were sensitive to the blocker of ATP-dependent K+ channels (K(ATP)), glibenclamide. Voltage steps from -80 mV to +20 mV activated 4-aminopyridine-sensitive K+ channels of 6.5 pS with properties of delayed rectifier K+ channels (Kv). In patches which upon a previous voltage step had revealed the existence of Kv, levcromakalim reduced the open-probability of Kv, but it did not concomitantly activate K(KCO). During the course of the experiments, but unrelated to the presence of levcromakalim, large conductance K+ channels (BK(Ca)) appeared which could be inhibited by iberiotoxin, a selective blocker of BK(Ca), and by the membrane-permeant calcium buffer, BAPTA/AM, but not by glibenclamide. Whole-cell current-voltage (i-V) relations were established in response to voltage ramps from +50 mV to -100 mV; on subtraction of control i-V curves from i-V curves obtained in the presence of 10 microM levcromakalim, the KCO-induced K+ current remained which was proportional to voltage. This is not compatible with the upward-bent curvature predicted by the GHK current equation for purely resistive channels at high [K+]i versus low [K+]o. In conclusion, in the guinea pig portal vein cells, no evidence could be established for the hypotheses that KCOs may act via conversion of Kv to K(ATP) (Beech and Bolton 1989; Edwards et al. 1993) or by activation of BK(Ca) (Balwierczak et al. 1995). In these cells, mild inward rectification of the levcromakalim-induced current was observed which underlines their relationship to K(ATP) in other tissues.
Inhibition of long-chain fatty acid metabolism does not affect platelet aggregation responses.	A number of anti-anginal agents (perhexiline, amiodarone, trimetazidine) have been shown to inhibit myocardial carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1, which controls access of long-chain fatty acids to mitochondrial sites of beta-oxidation. In view of clinical data suggesting that perhexiline improves symptomatic status in unstable angina pectoris, and the known role of mitochondrial beta-oxidation in platelet metabolism, we compared the platelet carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 inhibitory and putative anti-aggregatory effects of perhexiline, amiodarone and trimetazidine with those of specific carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 inhibitors: etomoxir and hydroxyphenylglyoxylate in both normal subjects and patients with stable angina. All of the compounds examined inhibited platelet carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 activity; rank order of potency etomoxir > malonyl-CoA > hydroxyphenylglyoxylate > amiodarone > or = perhexiline > trimetazidine. However, only perhexiline, amiodarone and trimetazidine inhibited platelet aggregation. We conclude that (a) the carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 inhibitors perhexiline, amiodarone and trimetazidine exert significant anti-aggregatory effects which may be therapeutically relevant and, (b) these effects are independent of carnitine palmitoyltransferase-1 inhibition.
Inhibitory actions of various vasorelaxants on the myogenic contraction induced by quick stretch studied in canine cerebral artery.	Quick stretch at a rate of 10 cm/s with the amount of 30% of the initial muscle length (= 100%) produced a myogenic contraction in canine cerebral artery. The inhibitory actions of various vasorelaxants on the stretch-induced contraction were investigated. Ca2+ channel blockers (nicardipine, D-cis-diltiazem) inhibited the stretch-induced contraction by 50-60% at the concentrations which abolished high KCl-induced contraction. Inhibitions of the stretch-induced contraction by nitro-compounds (nitroglycerin, sodium nitroprusside) were about 50%. In contrast, inhibitions by the compounds which activate ATP-sensitive K+ channels (cromakalim, nicorandil, pinacidil) of the myogenic contraction in response to quick stretch were only 20%. Papaverine totally abolished the stretch-induced contraction. It is likely that all the vasorelaxant compounds tested in the present study except papaverine are beneficial in the sense that they do not suppress the intrinsic myogenic contraction, which may be related to the autoregulation of local blood flow.
N-acetylcysteine enhances endothelium-dependent vasorelaxation in the isolated rat mesenteric artery.	Previous studies have suggested that N-acetylcysteine (NAC) may confer additional protection in acetaminophen (APAP) overdose by improving hepatic microcirculation. We hypothesize that NAC enhances release of nitric oxide (NO) from the vasculature.
Inhibition of the gap junctional component of endothelium-dependent relaxations in rabbit iliac artery by 18-alpha glycyrrhetinic acid.	The gap junction inhibitor 18-alpha-glycyrrhetinic acid (alpha-GA, 100 microM) attenuated endothelium-dependent relaxations to acetylcholine and cyclopiazonic acid by approximately 20% in rings of pre-constricted rabbit iliac artery. The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME, 300 microM) inhibited relaxations to both agents by approximately 65% and these were further attenuated by alpha-GA to < 10% of control. In endothelium-denuded preparations, relaxations to sodium nitroprusside were not affected by alpha-GA. Heterocellular gap junctional communication may therefore account for nitric oxide-independent relaxations evoked both by receptor-dependent and -independent mechanisms in rabbit iliac artery.
Potent vasodilatory with minor cardiodepressant actions of mibefradil in human cardiac tissue.	1. The present study compared the cardiovascular effects of mibefradil (MIB), a novel Ca2+-channel antagonist with high selectivity for T-type Ca2+-channels to the effect of the L-type Ca2+-channel-antagonists nifedipine (NIF) and diltiazem (DIL) in left ventricular myocardium and coronary arteries of hearts obtained from patients suffering from dilated cardiomyopathy (NYHA IV). Right atrial myocardium from patients undergoing aortocoronary bypass surgery without signs of cardiac failure was studied as well. 2. NIF and DIL (100 micromol l(-1)) completely depressed force of contraction (FOC) in electrically driven left ventricular myocardium (NIF 6.5+/-1.4% and DIL 7.1+/-1.2% of control), whereas a similar concentration of MIB only reduced force of contraction to 55.1+/-4.0% of the basal FOC. The negative inotropic potency as measured by the concentration needed to reduce basal FOC for 25% was NIF (0.0095 micromol l(-1))>DIL (0.041 micromol l(-1))>MIB (9.47 micromol l(-1)). 3. All three Ca2+-channel antagonists were more potent in human atrial compared to human left ventricular myocardium to reduce FOC. 4. The rank order of Ca+-antagonistic moiety as measured by the decrease of the intracellular Ca2+-transient (fura-2 ratio method) was NIF>DIL>MIB. 5. All Ca2+-channel antagonists completely relaxed human coronary arteries (% of papaverine effect: MIB 81.7+/-5.5%, DIL 91.3+/-0.9%, NIF 96.4+/-3.7%) precontracted with PGF2alpha (0.3 micromol l(-1)). The rank order of vasodilatory potency was NIF (EC50; 0.02 micromol l(-1))>DIL (0.13 micromol l(-1))>MIB (2.05 micromol l(-1)). 6. The vasoselectivity measured by the ratio of the concentration needed to achieve a 25% decrease in force and the concentration needed for 25% vasodilatation was 316 for MIB, 1.5 for NIF and 1.0 for DIL. 7. The present study provides evidence that blockade of T-type Ca2+-channels (e.g. mibefradil) results in potent vasodilatory properties with only minor cardiodepressant effects.
Development of endothelium-dependent relaxation in canine coronary collateral arteries.	Little information exists regarding development of vasomotor control mechanisms during coronary collateral artery maturation. Therefore, we studied endothelium-dependent relaxation of canine collateral arteries isolated 2, 4, and 9 months after placement of an ameroid occluder around the proximal left circumflex coronary artery.
Pulmonary response of normal human subjects to inhaled vasodilator substances.	1. Inhaled vasodilators such as nitric oxide and epoprostenol (prostaglandin I2) are now widely employed as supportive therapies to improve oxygenation and reduce pulmonary vascular resistance in patients with acute and chronic pulmonary hypertension. However, few data exist concerning their effects in normal individuals. The aim of this study was to characterize the response of the pulmonary circulation in normal individuals to inhaled nitric oxide and nebulized prostaglandin I2.2.Eight healthy volunteers were exposed to inhaled nitric oxide (0, 20 and 40 p.p.m.) and nebulized prostaglandin I2 (10 microgram/ml). Changes in effective pulmonary blood flow and diffusing capacity of the lung for carbon monoxide (TLCO) were measured using respiratory mass spectrometry. Bicycle ergometry was used to increase effective pulmonary blood flow as a positive control.3. Exercise produced significant increases in both effective pulmonary blood flow and TLCO, but neither nitric oxide nor prostaglandin I2 produced significant changes in either parameter.4.No significant change in pulmonary haemodynamics was demonstrated in response to inhaled nitric oxide or nebulized prostaglandin I2, using doses known to be effective in patients with acute and chronic pulmonary hypertension. These data suggest that the normal pulmonary vascular bed is not amenable to vasodilatation by inhaled drugs. The study further suggests that the normal pulmonary vasodilatation seen on exercise is not mediated pharmacologically, but is a secondary consequence to the mechanical effects of a rise in pulmonary blood flow. This study thus supports the view that there is no resting vasoconstrictor tone in the pulmonary vascular bed.
Aldosterone blunts the baroreflex response in man.	1. Recent animal evidence suggests that aldosterone, like angiotensin II, may possess detrimental autonomic modulating properties. Aldosterone has been shown to impair the baroreflex response in animal models. This study is designed to test the hypothesis that aldosterone directly attenuates the baroreflex in vivo in man.2. Fourteen healthy male volunteers [mean age (S.D.) 25 (9) years] received intravenous d-aldosterone (12 pmol.min-1.kg-1) and 5% dextrose (vehicle) in a double-blind crossover fashion, co-infused with incremental doses of intravenous phenylephrine and sodium nitroprusside. Aldosterone had no significant effect on resting blood pressure, heart rate or baroreflex response to sodium nitroprusside. However, reflex responses to phenylephrine were impaired with aldosterone (P<0.01) while blood pressure responses were unaltered. Baroreflex sensitivity was significantly blunted in the aldosterone group [8.36+/-2.19 versus 10.12+/-2.27 ms/mmHg; P<0. 04].3. This study confirms previous observations from animal models that aldosterone impairs the baroreflex response. High aldosterone levels may contribute to the baroreflex dysfunction in cardiovascular diseases such as hypertension and heart failure.
Relationship between arterial baroreflex, cardiopulmonary vagal reflex and renal natriuretic response to saline in conscious rabbits.	1. We have previously shown that normotensive rabbits with a genetic impairment in arterial baroreflex sensitivity showed a delayed sodium excretion and failed to increase their renal blood flow in response to a saline infusion that did not alter blood pressure. These renal haemodynamic and excretory abnormalities were abolished by renal denervation. The present study determined the sensitivity of the cardiopulmonary baroreceptors and the renal response to a mild saline infusion in normotensive rabbits varying widely in their arterial baroreflex sensitivity.2. Sensitivity of cardiopulmonary baroreceptors was assessed from the slope of the relationship of the change in both blood pressure and heart rate and the dose of phenylbiguanide, a stimulator of vagal afferents.3. The change in renal blood flow and lithium and sodium excretion was measured in response to saline, infused at a rate of 0.11 ml.min-1.kg-1 into the ear vein. Urine was collected via a urethral catheter and renal blood flow was measured by para-aminohippurate clearance.4.A significant correlation was found between the magnitude of the gain of the cardiac arterial baroreflex and the sensitivity of the cardiopulmonary baroreceptor response to phenylbiguanide. The latter was significantly correlated to renal blood flow and lithium clearance 60-90 min after the start of the saline infusion.5. It was also found that in some normotensive rabbits there was a blunting of cardiovascular regulation as indicated by a reduced sensitivity of cardiopulmonary and arterial baroreceptors. This may explain their abnormal haemodynamic and natriuretic response to salt.
Effects of cholecystokinin on gastric injury and gastric mucosal blood flow.	Cholecystokinin (CCK) is a vasodilator and prevents gastric injury from ethanol. Its effects against other irritants are unknown. This study was conducted to (1) assess whether CCK or oleate, a CCK secretagogue, could prevent gastric injury from other damaging agents and (2) examine the role of blood flow in CCK-induced gastroprotection. Conscious rats were pretreated for 10 minutes with intravenous saline solution or CCK (5 nmol/kg) or were given 1 ml of orogastric water or oleate (100 mmol/L) 30 minutes before a 1 ml orogastric bolus of acidified ethanol (150 mmol/L hydrochloric acid/50% ethanol), 0.75N hydrochloric acid, or 0.2N sodium hydroxide. Rats were killed 5 minutes after receiving an irritant and the total area (mm2) of macroscopic injury was quantified. The duration of CCK-induced gastroprotection against acidified ethanol was examined at 5, 10, 30, and 60 minutes after its administration. Other rats had gastric mucosal blood flow determined (fluorescent microspheres) at identical time points. CCK and oleate decreased gastric injury from all three luminal irritants. CCK-induced gastroprotection was present for 30 minutes but only enhanced gastric mucosal blood flow at 5 and 10 minutes. These data suggest that endogenous CCK may play a role in gastric mucosal defense and that blood flow alone does not fully explain CCK gastroprotection.
Effect of drug-induced vasodilatation of basal brain arteries with nitroglycerin on blood flow velocity and volume flow in the middle cerebral artery]	The Mller-Casty flow index (FI) is recommended for use in transcranial Doppler sonography (TCD) to measure relative changes in volume flow. We examined the ability of the FI to assess the volume flow during diameter changes of basal cerebral arteries.
Altered muscle metabolism associated with vasoconstriction in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	In the rat muscle vascular bed, vasoconstrictors either increase or decrease oxygen consumption (VO2). The present study compared the effects of norepinephrine (NE), angiotensin II (ANG II), and 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) on vasoconstriction-associated metabolism in the constant-flow perfused hindlimb of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY) in the absence of insulin. Basal perfusion pressure, VO2, glucose uptake, and lactate production were increased by 21.4, 11.9, 46.4, and 44.9% (P < 0.05 for all), respectively, in SHR, which also had higher blood pressure and metabolic rate (P < 0.05) in vivo. Dose-response curves for NE-induced perfusion pressure, VO2, and lactate production in SHR were shifted to the left compared with WKY. Associated with the increased perfusion pressure, NE-induced VO2 and glucose uptake were both decreased (P < 0.01), particularly at high concentrations. These differences were unaffected by 10 microM propranolol but were all diminished by further addition of prazosin (2.5 nM). ANG II stimulated VO2, glucose uptake, and lactate production in both strains, but the increased lactate production was smaller in SHR (P < 0.05) with a proportional decrease (P < 0.05) in glucose uptake. Conversely, 5-HT decreased VO2 in both strains (P < 0.01), and this effect was greater in SHR (P < 0.01). These data suggest that SHR muscle thermogenesis and glucose uptake are impaired during vasoconstriction, especially in response to NE.
Limb reduction defects in endothelial nitric oxide synthase-deficient mice.	Nitric oxide synthases are a family of enzymes capable of converting L-arginine to L-citrulline with the subsequent release of nitric oxide (NO). NO has been shown to have multiple biologic effects depending on the isoform responsible for its production and its tissue of origin. Murine endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) is encoded by Nos3, located on mouse chromosome 5. NO produced from this isoform causes vascular smooth muscle relaxation. Other investigators have shown that the administration of nonspecific inhibitors of nitric oxide synthases to pregnant rats induces limb reduction defects. However, mice deficient in Nos3 have not previously been noted to show such abnormalities. To explore the importance of eNOS during development, we produced mice deficient in eNOS using embryonic stem cell technology. Limb reduction defects were seen in approximately 10% of the null animals. We also observed increased neonatal loss of homozygous deficient pups. One functional copy of Nos3 eliminates the risk of limb defects observed in our mouse strain. These findings have implications for understanding genetic predisposition to sporadic limb reduction defects in humans.
Antagonism of ANG II type 1 receptors protects the endothelium during the early stages of renal hypertension in rats.	The degree of involvement of the renin-angiotensin system in endothelial dysfunction was investigated by using a one-kidney, one-clip (1K,1C) model of renal hypertension. Male Wistar rats received 0.02% enalapril, 0.02% losartan, or tap water for 1 day before and for 48 h after the induction of renal artery stenosis or sham operation. The aorta of 1K,1C rats showed increased contraction and decreased relaxation responses produced by norepinephrine and acetylcholine, respectively, vs. control responses. Exposure to 10(-5) mol/l NG-monomethyl-L-arginine acetate augmented the contractile responses to norepinephrine to a greater extent in control rats than in the 1K,1C rats. The increased contraction and decreased relaxation responses to these agonists in the 1K,1C rats were normalized by enalapril or losartan. The addition of HOE-140 to the bath did not alter these normalized responses. Results suggest that angiotensin II causes endothelial dysfunction and reduces nitric oxide levels in 1K,1C rats. Such endothelial dysfunction enhanced the norepinephrine-induced contraction during the early-stage hypertension in 1K,1C rats.
The effect of kavinton and korglycon on the central and cerebral hemodynamics of patients with an ischemic stroke in stenoses and occlusions of the major cerebral arteries]	Of the 40 patients, stenoses of major brain arteries were identified in 34, occlusions in 6, affection of two arteries in eleven patients, that of three arteries in 3 patients. The following disturbances in central hemodynamics were detected: arterial pressure getting higher, this referring also to the peripheral vascular resistance, hematocrit value, with the bloodflow in the arm-ear portion slowing down, hemodynamics being predominantly of hyperkinetic type. Treatment with cavinton, cavinton plus corglucone resulted in improvement of bloodflow in the affected major brain arteries at the expense of a compensating redistribution of bloodflow from intact collectors to the stenosed arteries basin. Changes in central hemodynamics were manifested by increase in the number of cases presenting with eukinetic-type circulation at the expense of decrease in those of hyperkinetic type. Under hypokinetic type hemodynamics, it is advisable that cavinton be prescribed in combination with cardiac glycosides.
The efficacy of treating cerebral ischemia due to changes in the major cerebral arteries by using the preparation Tanakan (EGB 761)]	Cerebrovascular pathology is one of the chief causes of death. Effects were studied of the drug preparation "Tanakan" on the process of the rehabilitation of those patients (n = 150) operated on for abnormalities and deformity of brain major arteries. Two groups were identified: pathologies of the vertebral arteries (n = 50), carotid abnormalities (n = 51), control groups (n = 24 and 25 respectively). The drug was administered in a dose of 40 mg on a three-times daily schedule. Clinical approaches were used as were the dopplerographic, electroencephalographic, biochemical, micromorphological, neuropsychological methods of investigation. Determined in the study was a positive dynamics of clinical indices, which was more apparent for vertebrobasilar discirculations. EEG-investigation revealed differences in the course of changes in left- and right-hemispheric location of carotidogenous discirculations. Increase in blood serum antioxidant activity was recorded as was a positive transformation of vegetative indices and improvement of cognitive functions. Thus, the use of the above drug is indicated in the postoperative complex of rehabilitative measures in patients with cerebrovascular ischemia secondary to developmental anomalies and deformities of brain major arteries.
Regional perfusion and oxygenation of tumors upon methylxanthine derivative administration.	The use of methylxanthine derivatives has been postulated as a means of increasing tumor perfusion and thus ameliorating tumor hypoxia. The aim of this study was to quantify and compare the effects of three methylxanthine derivatives: pentoxifylline (PX), torbafylline (TB), and HWA 138 (HW) on tumor perfusion and oxygenation.
Myorelaxant activity of 2-t-butyl-4-methoxyphenol (BHA) in guinea pig gastric fundus.	This study investigates the mechanism whereby the antioxidant 2-t-butyl-4-methoxyphenol (BHA) relaxes guinea pig gastric fundus smooth muscle. In circular smooth muscle strips, 10 microM cyclopiazonic acid, a specific inhibitor of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+-ATPase, induced a prolonged rise in tension which depended on the presence of extracellular Ca2+. BHA (pIC50 = 5.83), sodium nitroprusside (6.85), isoproterenol (7.69) and nifedipine (8.02), but not 2,6-di-t-butyl-4-methoxyphenol (DTBHA) (up to 30 microM), relaxed muscle strips contracted with cyclopiazonic acid. Methyl-1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-3-nitro-4-(2-trifluoromethylphenyl)-pyri dine-5-carboxylate (Bay K 8644) (1 microM) antagonised the nifedipine- but not the BHA-induced relaxation. Nifedipine and isoproterenol (10 microM) caused a decrease in spontaneous tone, but did not counteract the subsequent rise in tension elicited by 10 microM cyclopiazonic acid. Conversely, 100 microM BHA and 100 microM sodium nitroprusside not only significantly reduced spontaneous tone but also markedly impaired the response of the muscles to cyclopiazonic acid. DTBHA failed to show either effect. When added to preparations completely relaxed by 100 microM BHA, 10 mM tetraethylammonium still elicited nifedipine-sensitive tonic and phasic contractions in the presence or absence of 10 microM cyclopiazonic acid. BHA and DTBHA inhibited, in a concentration-dependent manner, the Ca2+-promoted contraction of strips depolarised by 10 mM tetraethylammonium. The BHA antagonism showed a non-competitive profile while that of DTBHA was competitive. In muscle strips at rest, 10 microM BHA caused a significant increase in tissue cAMP concentration, leaving cGMP unmodified. To conclude, the myorelaxant action of BHA on gastric fundus smooth muscle appears to be mediated partly by an increase in cAMP levels and partly by inhibition of Ca2+ influx from the extracellular space.
Changes in parameters of the systemic hemodynamics during combined action of humoral stimuli exerting various effects on arterial pressure]	In anesthetised cats, i.v. administration of epinephrine (EP) in combination with acetylcholine (ACH) caused a decline of arterial pressure (AP), cardiac output (CO) and heart rate (HR) whereas stroke volume (SV) and total peripheral resistance (TPR) were increased. Combined administration of the HIS (histamine) and EP caused a decrease in only the AP and TPR, whereas CO, HR and SV were increased. The findings suggest that changes of systemic haemodynamics following combined i.v. administration of humoral stimuli depend on the mechanism of their action on the heart and vessels.
The capacitance function of vessels of the anterior vena cava region during depressor stimulus effects on the blood circulation system]	Depressing neurogenic and humoral (acetylcholine, papaverine and histamine) effects against the background of dilatation of arterial vessels were shown to exert different results: the former stimuli led to blood output from the veins, whereas humoral stimuli enhanced the depot role of the veins in animals. The smallest possible doses of acetylcholine did sometimes reduce the vessels' capacity.
Comparison of endothelial reactivity of infrarenal and suprarenal aortic segments in rodents]	Human infrarenal aorta is prone to develop atherosclerotic lesions. Infrarenal aortic blood flow depends on lower limb muscular activity. Blood flow variations cause shear stress variations known to influence endothelial reactivity. The purpose of this study is to compare vascular reactivity of the suprarenal and infrarenal aorta.
The vasoconstrictor effect of cyclosporine on the pulmonary vein is mediated by its vehicle: the cremophor]	Cyclosporin A (CyA) induced vasoconstriction and impaired relaxation to agonists has been related in some models to its vehicle: the cremophor (CRE). There is no data concerning the effect of CyA and its vehicle CRE on the pulmonary veins. Therefore, the present study was designed to characterize the effect of CyA and CRE on isolated pulmonary veins.
The beneficial effect of natural antioxidants on the endothelial function of regenerated endothelium]	Lipid peroxidation and LDL oxidation have been implicated in intimal hyperplasia and endothelial dysfunction following direct arterial trauma.
Excitatory motor and electrical effects produced by tachykinins in the human and guinea-pig isolated ureter and guinea-pig renal pelvis.	1. In isolated tissue experiments, neurokinin A (NKA) produced concentration-dependent contraction of human and guinea-pig ureter (pD2 = 6.7 and 7.2, respectively); an effect greatly reduced (>80% inhibition) by the tachykinin NK2 receptor-selective antagonist MEN 11420 (0.1 microM). The tachykinin NK1 and NK3 receptor agonists septide and senktide, respectively, were ineffective. 2. Electrical field stimulation (EFS) of the guinea-pig isolated renal pelvis produced an inotropic response blocked by MEN 11420 (0.01-1 microM). In the same preparation MEN 11420 (0.1 microM) blocked (apparent pK(B) = 8.2) the potentiation of spontaneous motor activity produced by the NK2 receptor-selective agonist [betaAla8]NKA(4-10). 3. In sucrose-gap experiments, EFS evoked action potentials (APs) accompanied by phasic contractions of human and guinea-pig ureter, which were unaffected by tetrodotoxin or MEN 11420 (3 microM), but were blocked by nifedipine (1-10 microM). NKA (1-3 microM) produced a slow membrane depolarization with superimposed APs and a tonic contraction with superimposed phasic contractions. NKA prolonged the duration of EFS-evoked APs and potentiated the accompanying contractions. MEN 11420 completely prevented the responses to NKA in both the human and guinea-pig ureter. 4. Nifedipine (1-10 microM) suppressed the NKA-evoked APs and phasic contractions in both human and guinea-pig ureter, and slightly reduced the membrane depolarization induced by NKA. A tonic-type contraction of the human ureter in response to NKA persisted in the presence of nifedipine. 5. In conclusion, tachykinins produce smooth muscle excitation in both human and guinea-pig ureter by stimulating receptors of the NK2 type only. NK2 receptor activation depolarizes the membrane to trigger the firing of APs from latent pacemakers.
Role of inducible nitric oxide synthase in endotoxin-induced acute lung injury.	The role of nitric oxide (NO) in lung injury remains unclear. Both beneficial and detrimental roles have been proposed. In this study, we used mutant mice lacking the inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) to assess the role of this isoform in sepsis-associated lung injury. Wild-type and iNOS knockout mice were injected with either saline or Escherichia coli endotoxin (LPS) 25 mg/kg and killed 6, 12, and 24 h later. Lung injury was evaluated by measuring lactate dehydrogenase activity in the bronchoalveolar lavage, pulmonary wet/dry ratio, and immunostaining for nitrotyrosine formation. In the wild-type mice, LPS injection elicited more than a 3-fold rise in lactate dehydrogenase activity, a significant rise in lung wet/dry ratio and extensive nitrotyrosine staining in large airway and alveolar epithelium, macrophages, and pulmonary vascular cells. This was accompanied by induction of iNOS protein and increased lung nitric oxide synthase activity. By comparison, LPS injection in iNOS knockout mice elicited no iNOS induction and no significant changes in lung NOS activity, lactate dehydrogenase activity, lung wet/dry ratio, or pulmonary nitrotyrosine staining. These results indicate that mice deficient in iNOS gene are more resistant to LPS-induced acute lung injury than are wild-type mice.
Cerebral blood flow effects of sodium valproate in drug combinations in the baboon model.	Sodium valproate (CAS 1069-66-5, Epilim) has been used in the management of epilepsy during the last three decades. Although important information on the pharmacological actions and efficacy of sodium valproate has accrued to date, limited research has been conducted on its effects on cerebral blood flow. In recent years, with the aid of SPECT (single photon emission computed tomography) and PET (positron emission tomography) it has been shown that marked cerebral blood flow changes occur in epileptic patients. Furthermore it was established recently that sodium valproate influences the cerebral blood flow in children by decreasing the flow significantly. The present study investigated the effects of sodium valproate on the cerebral blood flow, using 99mTc-HMPAO (hexamethylpropylene amino oxime) and SPECT, in a primate model, as well as the effects of its drug interactions with therapeutic agents that influence cerebrovascular dynamics, e.g. sumatriptan, nimodipine and acetazolamide. The current study using single dose treatment with sodium valproate did not detect a decrease or increase of the cerebral blood flow when compared with control baseline results. Drug interaction between sodium valproate and nimodipine may occur as a reduction of 25% in cerebral blood flow from the baseline control was observed in this case. The effects observed for the combinations of sodium valproate respectively with sumatriptan and acetazolamide are attributed to the influences of the sumatriptan (decrease) and acetazolamide (increase) alone. The cerebral blood flow effects of these drugs and possible interactions during an acute epileptic seizure need to be investigated.
Inhibitory effect of theobromine on induction of angiogenesis and VEGF mRNA expression in v-raf transfectants of human urothelial cells HCV-29.	Neovascularisation plays a crucial role in solid tumor growth and metastasis formation. Our previous studies showed that theophylline and theobromine suppressed cutaneous neovascular reaction induced in mice by human blood leukocytes, and lung as well as ovarian cancer cells. Here, we investigated the in vivo effect of theobromine on angiogenic activity of human urothelial cell line HCV-29, v-raf transfected (mouse cutaneous assay), and the in vitro effect of this drug on VEGF, tPA, uPA and PAI mRNA expression in these cells (RT-PCR method). Theobromine suppressed angiogenesis induced in mice by HCV-29-v-raf cells, inhibited VEGF mRNA expression, and had no effect on transcription of uPA and tPA in these cells. HCV-29-v-raf transfectants do not display transcripts of PAI, in the presence or the absence of theobromine.
Hydralazine-induced vasodilation involves opening of high conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels.	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether high conductance Ca2+-activated K+ channels (BK(Ca)) are mediating the vasodilator action of hydralazine. In isolated porcine coronary arteries, hydralazine (1-300 microM), like the K+ channel opener levcromakalim, preferentially relaxed contractions induced by K+ (20 mM) compared with K+ (80 mM). In addition, concentration-relaxation curves for hydralazine (pD2 = 5.38 +/- 0.06; Emax = 85.9 +/- 3.6%) were shifted 10-fold to the right by the BK(Ca) blockers tetraethylammonium (1 mM) and iberiotoxin (0.1 microM). In contrast, nimodipine (a Ca2+-entry blocker), relaxed contractions induced by K+ (20 mM) and K+ (80 mM) equally and nimodipine-induced relaxations were neither antagonized by tetraethylammonium nor by iberiotoxin. In isolated perfused rat hearts, hydralazine (1 microM) increased coronary flow by 28.8 +/- 2.7%. Iberiotoxin (0.1 microM) suppressed this response by 82% (P < 0.05). In conscious, chronically catheterized rats the hypotensive response to hydralazine (0.6 mg kg(-1) min(-1)) was significantly reduced by 41% during infusion of iberiotoxin (0.1 mg kg(-1)). It is concluded, that opening of BK(Ca) takes part in the mechanism whereby hydralazine produces vasodilation.
A possible role of S-nitrosothiols at the nitrergic relaxations in the mouse corpus cavernosum.	Relaxations induced by electrical field stimulation and acetylcholine were compared with those induced by acidified sodium nitrite, sodium nitroprusside, S-nitrosoglutathione and S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine in the mouse corpus cavernosum precontracted with phenylephrine. NG-nitro-L-arginine inhibited electrical field stimulation- or acetylcholine-induced relaxation, but was ineffective on relaxations caused by the other stimuli. Hydroquinone and pyrogallol had no inhibitory action on the relaxations caused by any stimulus except acidified sodium nitrite. Incubation of the tissue with diethyldithiocarbamic acid significantly inhibited the relaxations induced by all stimuli except papaverine. In the tissues pre-treated with diethyldithiocarbamic acid, superoxide dismutase, hydroquinone and pyrogallol failed to yield restore or further inhibit the relaxations in response to electrical field stimulation or acetylcholine. LY 83583 (6-anilino-5,8-quinolinedione) and hydroxocobalamin clearly inhibited the relaxant responses to electrical field stimulation, acetylcholine, S-nitrosoglutathione and acidified sodium nitrite whereas there was significant enhancement of the relaxation produced by S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine. These findings suggest that the relaxant factor released from non-adrenergic non-cholinergic nerves or endothelial cells in mouse cavernosal tissue may be a superoxide anion-resistant nitric oxide-containing molecule and that S-nitrosoglutathione rather than S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine could be a suitable candidate for this.
Sulfatide reduces leucocyte accumulation and reverts vascular failure in splanchnic artery occlusion shock.	Selectin-mediated leucocyte accumulation is implicated in the pathogenesis of splanchnic artery occlusion. Sulfatide is recognized by P-selectin and blocks this adhesion molecule. We investigated the effects of sulfatide in rats subjected to splanchnic artery occlusion shock. Anaesthetized rats, subjected to total occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery and the coeliac trunk for 45 min developed severe shock resulting in death within 85-90 min after the release of occlusion. Sham operated animals were used as controls. Splanchnic artery occlusion shocked rats had marked hypotension, enhanced levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) in serum and macrophages, leucopenia and increased ileal leucocyte accumulation, studied by the means of myeloperoxidase activity. Furthermore, aortae from shocked rats showed marked hyporeactivity to phenylephrine (1 nM-10 microM), reduced responsiveness to acetylcholine (10 nM-10 microM) and an increased staining for P-selectin in the vasculature. In vivo administration of sulfatide (10 mg/kg, i.v., 5 min after occlusion of the splanchnic arteries) increased survival rate (90%, 4 h after splanchnic artery occlusion shock), enhanced mean arterial blood pressure, reduced serum TNF-alpha (37 +/- 11 U/ml vs. 398 +/- 18 U/ml), ameliorated leucopenia and reduced ileal myeloproxidase activity (1.2 +/- 0.4 U/g tissue vs. 8.2 +/- 0.8 U/g tissue). Aortae from splanchnic artery occlusion shocked rats treated with sulfatide exhibited a greater contractile response to phenylephrine and improved responsiveness to acetylcholine. Moreover sulfatide-treated rats showed a reduced staining for P-selectin in the aorta and in the superior mesenteric artery. Finally, passive immunization with specific monoclonal antibodies raised against P-selectin significantly protected from the lethality induced by splanchnic artery occlusion shock. Our results suggest that sulfatide protects against splanchnic artery occlusion shock.
Cyclic GMP-dependent cytoprotection against ethanol-induced damage in rabbit isolated gastric parietal cells.	Prostaglandin E2 stimulates a nitric oxide/cyclic GMP (NO/cGMP) pathway which activates basolateral Cl- channels in rabbit gastric parietal cells. We examined whether the NO/cGMP pathway protects parietal cells from ethanol (EtOH)-induced cytotoxicity, using a parietal cell-rich suspension purified from rabbit gastric mucosa. Cytotoxicity was assayed by measuring the release of a fluorescent dye from the cells. N2,O2-dibutyryl guanosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (DBcGMP) showed a concentration-dependent protective effect against EtOH-induced cytotoxicity. The half-maximal effect of DBcGMP was observed at 24 microM. DBcGMP in a concentration-dependent manner opened the basolateral Cl- channels of parietal cells, the EC50 value being 44 microM. The EtOH-induced cytotoxicity decreased as the Cl- concentration of medium decreased. A 30-s treatment with 5-nitro-2-(3-phenylpropylamino)-benzoate (NPPB), an inhibitor of the Cl- channel, had a cytotoxic effect which was not prevented by pre-incubation with DBcGMP. The cytotoxic effects of EtOH and NPPB were additive and the NPPB effects did not depend on the medium Cl- concentration. The present study showed that cGMP protects the gastric parietal cell from EtOH-induced cytotoxicity, and this cytoprotection is related to basolateral Cl- channel activity in the plasma membrane via an unknown mechanism(s).
HA1077, a protein kinase inhibitor, inhibits calponin phosphorylation on Ser175 in porcine coronary artery.	Calponin is a thin filament-associated protein which has been implicated in the modulation of the contractile state of smooth muscle via its interaction with actin and inhibition of the actin-activated myosin Mg-ATPase. This inhibitory effect is alleviated by phosphorylation of calponin at Ser175 in vitro by protein kinase C. The issue of calponin phosphorylation in intact smooth muscle in response to agonists that activate protein kinase C is controversial. We have produced a monoclonal antibody that specifically recognizes calponin phosphorylated at Ser175 and used it to analyze calponin phosphorylation in porcine coronary arterial smooth muscle stimulated with prostaglandin F2alpha or phorbol 12,13-dibutylate (PDB). Calponin phosphorylation increased rapidly in response to prostaglandin F2alpha concomitant with the increase in tension. Calponin was then dephosphorylated while force was maintained. Tension development in response to PDB was significantly slower, but again calponin phosphorylation paralleled force development. In this case, calponin dephosphorylation was very slow, consistent with prolonged activation of protein kinase C. The protein kinase inhibitors, HA1077 (1-5-(isoquinoline sulfonyl)-homopiperazine HCl) and HA1100 (1-hydroxy HA1077; 1-(hydroxy-5-isoquinoline sulfonyl-homopiperazine), inhibited tension development and calponin phosphorylation in a concentration-dependent manner with similar ED50 values in response to prostaglandin F2alpha and PDB. These results support physiological roles for calponin in force development in smooth muscle in response to agonists which trigger protein kinase C activation and in the latch state, i.e., force maintenance at low energy cost. Furthermore, the vasodilator effect of HA1077 and HA1100 is more likely due to inhibition of protein kinase C than of myosin light chain kinase.
Vasodilator actions of urocortin and related peptides in the human perfused placenta in vitro.	Urocortin, is a recently isolated peptide belonging to the CRH family that binds with high affinity to the CRH2 receptor. Like CRH, urocortin causes hypotension in the rat, but its vasoactive actions have not yet been studied in the human. We have compared the vasoactive properties of urocortin, CRH, and urotensin-1 in the human fetal placental vasculature in vitro. Single placental lobules were bilaterally perfused (maternal and fetal sides, 5 mL/min each; 95% O2-5% CO2; 37 C), and changes in fetal arterial perfusion pressure were recorded. Submaximal vasoconstriction was induced by PGF2alpha (4+/-0.7 micromol/L), which increased perfusion pressure from 19.6+/-1.4 to 100.7+/-3.1 mm Hg (n=38; P < 0.001). Subsequent fetal arterial infusion of urocortin (0.001-1 nmol/L) caused concentration-dependent vasodilatation. Urocortin was equipotent with urotensin-1 and 25 times more potent than CRH in causing vasodilatation. Nevertheless, the maximum vasodilator responses to each of the peptides were similar (P > 0.05). The CRH receptor antagonist, alpha-helical CRH-(9-41) (0.2 nmol/L) significantly attenuated the vasodilatation produced by urocortin, urotensin-1, and CRH (P < 0.05). These results indicate a possible physiological role for urocortin in the modulation of human fetal placental vascular tone by activation of CRH2-like receptors.
Effects of ischemic preconditioning on myocardial perfusion, function, and microvascular regulation.	Ischemic preconditioning (PC) has been advocated as a method to preserve myocardial function and perfusion during minimally invasive direct coronary bypass (MIDCAB). We examined the effects of PC on indexes of myocardial function, perfusion, and endothelial and beta-adrenergic coronary regulation after 30 minutes of ischemia and 60 minutes of reperfusion (IR).
Acute hypertension impairs endothelium-dependent vasodilation.	1. Previous investigations have demonstrated an impaired endothelium-dependent vasodilatation (EDV) in patients with hypertension. The present study aimed to investigate if an acute rise in blood pressure to hypertensive levels impairs EDV in otherwise normotensive subjects. 2. Twenty-seven young, healthy, normotensive subjects were studied. Eight of these underwent evaluation of EDV and endothelium-independent vasodilatation (EIDV) by means of forearm blood flow measurements during local intra-arterial infusions of methacholine (2 and 4 micrograms/min) and sodium nitroprusside (5 and 10 micrograms/min), before and after 1 h of sustained hypertension, induced by noradrenaline given intravenously. Identical measurements were made in 11 subjects before and during concomitant local intra-arterial infusion of noradrenaline without change in blood pressure and eight subjects were studied during saline infusions. 3. One hour of sustained hypertension (diastolic blood pressure > 95 mmHg) significantly attenuated both forearm blood flow (17.4 +/- 6.8 versus 27.4 +/- 6.8 ml.min-1.100 ml-1 tissue at baseline, P < 0.05) and forearm vascular resistance decrease (3.2 +/- 0.87 versus 7.4 +/- 2.5 units at baseline, P < 0.05) during methacholine infusion. These attenuations were significantly more pronounced for methacholine than for sodium nitroprusside (P < 0.05). In contrast, local intra-arterial noradrenaline infusions impaired vasodilatation induced by methacholine and sodium nitroprusside to a similar extent. Saline infusions did not change either EDV or EIDV. 4. Thus, an acute rise in blood pressure to hypertensive levels induced by noradrenaline impaired EDV more than EIDV in otherwise normotensive subjects, while no such selective effect of local noradrenaline was seen, suggesting that a high blood pressure impairs endothelial vasodilator function.
Effect of long-term octreotide and isosorbide dinitrate on haemodynamics in rats with portal vein stenosis.	1. Both octreotide and isosorbide dinitrate have been shown to have portal hypotensive effects in animals with portal hypertension. Moreover, in both animals and humans with portal hypertension, the reduction of portal pressure was enhanced when nitrovasodilators were combined with propranolol or vasopressin. The present study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of long-term administration of octreotide and isosorbide dinitrate on haemodynamics in rats with portal vein stenosis. 2. Portal hypertension was induced by portal vein stenosis. Portal hypertensive rats were allocated into one of four groups (eight rats in each group): vehicle group, octreotide group (100 micrograms/kg via subcutaneous injection every 12 h), isosorbide dinitrate group (5 mg/kg via gastric gavage every 12 h) and combined treatment group. Drug was given for eight consecutive days, starting 1 day before surgery. Haemodynamic values were measured using a radioactive microsphere technique. 3. Long-term octreotide treatment decreased portal pressure and improved the hyperdynamic circulation. In contrast, long-term administration of isosorbide dinitrate reduced portal pressure but did not ameliorate vasodilatation. A combination of octreotide and isosorbide dinitrate improved the hyperdynamic circulation with a reduction of portal pressure. In addition, the mean value of portal pressure after combination treatment was significantly lower than in rats receiving octreotide alone. 4. These results showed that, in rats with portal hypertension, long-term combined administration of octreotide and isosorbide dinitrate improved the hyperdynamic circulation together with a more profound reduction of portal pressure than rats receiving octreotide alone.
YC-1 potentiates nitric oxide- and carbon monoxide-induced cyclic GMP effects in human platelets.	Nitric oxide (NO), the physiological activator of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC), induces inhibitory effects on platelet activation via elevation of cGMP levels and stimulation of the cGMP-dependent protein kinase. YC-1, a benzylindazole derivative, was shown to activate sGC in intact platelets, resulting in inhibition of platelet aggregation. In a previous study, we demonstrated that YC-1 not only stimulates purified sGC but also potentiates the stimulatory action of submaximally effective NO and carbon monoxide (CO) concentrations. Here, we investigated the potentiating effect of YC-1 in intact platelets. YC-1 together with NO or CO led to complete inhibition of platelet aggregation at concentrations that were ineffective by themselves. Maximally effective 2, 2-diethyl-1-nitroso-oxyhydrazine (3 microM) and YC-1 (100 microM) concentrations each elevated the cGMP levels in intact platelets approximately 13-fold, and administration of the two drugs together resulted in enormous potentiation of cGMP formation, which greatly exceeded the effect on the purified enzyme and yielded a >1300-fold increase in cGMP levels. Similar results were obtained using CO instead of NO. Furthermore, YC-1 not only stimulated sGC but also inhibited cGMP-hydrolyzing phosphodiesterases in platelets. The enormous elevation of cGMP levels led to enhanced phosphorylation of the cGMP-dependent protein kinase substrate vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein. Thus, by the combination of two effects (i.e., potentiation of NO-induced sGC stimulation and phosphodiesterase inhibition), YC-1-like substances are potent activators of the sGC/cGMP pathways and are therefore interesting candidates to act as modulators of cGMP-mediated effects, especially within the cardiovascular system.
Role of nitric oxide in vascular hyper-responsiveness to norepinephrine in hypertensive Dahl rats.	To determine whether the abnormal vascular responses observed in salt-sensitive hypertension are caused by an impairment in vascular nitric oxide function.
Propofol-induced increase in vascular capacitance is due to inhibition of sympathetic vasoconstrictive activity.	Venodilation is thought to be one of the mechanisms underlying propofol-induced hypotension. The purpose of this study is to test two hypotheses: (1) propofol increases systemic vascular capacitance, and (2) the capacitance change produced by propofol is a result of an inhibition of sympathetic vasoconstrictor activity.
Therapy with nitroglycerin increases coronary vasoconstriction in response to acetylcholine.	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether therapy with nitroglycerin (GTN) would lead to abnormal coronary artery responses to the endothelium-dependent vasodilator acetylcholine.
Effects of intra-arterial papaverine on the chronic period of cerebral arterial vasospasm in rats.	The effect of intra-arterial papaverine (IAP) on the basilar artery (BA) and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) during the chronic period of the cerebral arterial vasospasm in rats was investigated.
Barium and 4-aminopyridine inhibit flow-initiated endothelium-independent relaxation.	Although much is known about the underlying mechanism of endothelium-dependent flow-induced vasorelaxation, the cellular processes responsible for the endothelium-independent flow-induced relaxation observed in some vessels is unknown. As there is evidence for the participation of K+ channels in the endothelium-dependent response, the present study was designed to determine whether such channels are involved in the endothelium-independent response and if so, which ones. We examined the effects of various selective K+ channel blockers on endothelium-independent relaxation initiated by intraluminal flow (10-80 microl/min), and by an endothelium-independent vasodilator sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 1 nmol/l to 3 micromol/l) in segments of the rabbit facial vein under isometric conditions. Flow-initiated relaxation was abolished by 25 and 40 mmol/l K+ as well as 10 mmol/l tetraethylammonium (TEA), significantly inhibited by 100 micromol/l Ba2+, 5 mmol/l Cs+ and 7.5 mmol/l 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), but unaffected by 5 micromol/l glibenclamide and 50 nmol/l charybdotoxin. Relaxation induced by SNP was reduced by 7.5 mmol/l 4-AP, but not by any of the above drugs in their listed concentrations. The inhibitory effect of 100 micromol/l Ba2+ on the relaxation caused by low concentrations of K+ (15-20 mmol/l) supports the presence of inward rectifier K+ channels in the vascular smooth muscle cells of this tissue. We speculate that endothelium-independent flow-initiated relaxation of the rabbit facial vein may be associated with activation of inward rectifier and voltage-dependent K+ channels. The latter may also contribute to the vasorelaxation initiated by SNP.
Preserved vasodilator effect of bradykinin in dogs with heart failure.	In heart failure (HF), vasoconstrictor systems are activated and endothelium-derived vasodilation is blunted. Bradykinin, a potent vasodilator, may play an important role in this setting. However, it is not known whether its vasodilator effect is modified in HF.
Endothelin-1 has haemodynamic effects at pathophysiological concentrations in patients with left ventricular dysfunction.	Plasma levels of immunoreactive endothelin-1 (ET-1) are raised in chronic heart failure. Whether plasma ET-1 contributes to the haemodynamic derangement found in chronic heart failure is not known. We investigated the effects of exogenous ET-1 on the pulmonary and systemic vasculature in patients with left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVD), with or without overt heart failure.
Acute effects of an endothelin-1 receptor antagonist bosentan at different stages of heart failure in conscious dogs.	Inhibition by endothelin antagonist is a potential therapy in heart failure. However, the effect of endothelin inhibition during the development of heart failure has not been evaluated. The goal of our study was to examine the acute hemodynamic effects of the mixed endothelin receptor antagonist bosentan in the control state and at different stages of heart failure induced by right ventricular pacing (250 bpm) in conscious dogs.
Ex vivo gene transfer of endothelial nitric oxide synthase to atherosclerotic rabbit aortic rings improves relaxations to acetylcholine.	Cholesterol feeding results in impaired endothelium dependent vasorelaxation. The role of nitric oxide in this process is unclear. The aim of this study was to evaluate the role of nitric oxide in cholesterol-induced vasomotor dysfunction by examining the effect of overexpression of eNOS in the hypercholesterolemic rabbit aorta on vascular reactivity. Vascular rings from the thoracic aorta of hypercholesterolemic rabbits were exposed ex vivo either to an adenoviral vector encoding endothelial nitric oxide synthase (AdeNOS) or Escherichia coli beta Galactosidase (AdbetaGal). Transgene expression was examined by histochemistry for beta galactosidase, immunohistochemistry for eNOS and cyclic GMP measurements and vasomotor studies were performed. Transgene expression was found to localize to the endothelium and adventitia. cGMP levels were significantly greater in AdeNOS compared to AdbetaGal transduced rings. Acetylcholine mediated relaxation was significantly impaired in cholesterol fed rabbits and was markedly improved by overexpression of eNOS. These results suggest that reduced NO bioavailability observed in cholesterol-induced vascular dysfunction can be partially overcome by eNOS gene transfer.
Attenuation by ACE inhibitor drugs of alpha-adrenoceptor sensitivity in human vessels: possible differences related to drug lipophilicity.	We investigated the effect of angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) on postsynaptic adrenoceptor sensitivity and compared the effect of the lipophilic ACEI, quinapril, and that of hydrophilic agent, enalapril in human vessels.
Differential role of vasoactive prostanoids in porcine and human isolated pulmonary arteries in response to endothelium-dependent relaxants.	The pig is increasingly being used in medical research, both as a model of the human cardiovascular system, and as a possible source of organs for xenotransplantation. However, little is known about the comparative functions of the vascular endothelium between porcine and human arteries. We have therefore compared the effects of two endothelium-dependent vasorelaxants, acetylcholine (ACh) and the Ca2+-ATPase inhibitor, cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) on the porcine and human isolated pulmonary artery using isometric tension recording. ACh and CPA produced endothelium-dependent relaxations of both the human and porcine pulmonary arteries. In the porcine pulmonary artery, the cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor, flurbiprofen had no effect on relaxations to ACh (Emax: control 67.8+/-8.8% versus 72.4+/-9.5% (n=11)) or CPA (Emax: control 79.6+/-5.0% versus 94.0+/-10.6% (n=7)). The nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NAME converted relaxations to both ACh and CPA into contractile responses (maximum response: ACh 30.0+/-11.1% (n = 10); CPA 80.4+/-26.2% (n = 8) of U46619-induced tone). These contractile responses in the presence of L-NAME were abolished by flurbiprofen. In the human pulmonary artery, L-NAME and flurbiprofen partly attenuated relaxations to ACh (Emax: control: 45.1+/-12.1%; flurbiprofen: 33.4+/-13.5%; L-NAME: 10.1+/-7.2%) and CPA (Emax: control: 78.1+/-5.5%; flurbiprofen: 69.6+/-7.2%; L-NAME 37.9+/-10.7% of U46619-induced tone). These responses were abolished by the combination of both inhibitors. We have demonstrated that while the release of nitric oxide is important in responses to endothelium-dependent vasorelaxants in both human and porcine pulmonary arteries, in the human arteries, there is an important role for vasorelaxant prostanoids whilst in the porcine arteries, vasoconstrictor prostanoids are released.
Comparison of two soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitors, methylene blue and ODQ, on sodium nitroprusside-induced relaxation in guinea-pig trachea.	To clarify further the role of cyclic GMP in mediating the relaxant response in guinea-pig trachea induced by sodium nitroprusside (SNP), the effects of soluble guanylyl cyclase inhibitors, methylene blue and 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3,-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ) on SNP-induced muscle relaxation and cyclic GMP accumulation were determined. SNP (0.3-100 microM) evoked a concentration-dependent relaxation of guinea-pig isolated tracheas precontracted with 0.3 microM carbachol. Preincubation of the preparations with methylene blue (10, 30 and 100 microM) resulted in a slight but concentration-dependent prevention of the relaxant response to SNP. In contrast, the relaxation to SNP was extensively prevented by 3 microM ODQ and almost abolished by 10 microM ODQ. SNP (30 microM) induced a significant elevation of cyclic GMP accumulation (from 1.34+/-0.14 to 5.39+/-0.28 pmol mg(-1) protein, n= 5; P<0.001), which was partially attenuated by 100 microM methylene blue (3.11+/-0.51 pmol mg(-1) protein, n=5; P<0.05), whereas completely abolished by 10 microM ODQ (1.31+/-0.28 pmol mg(-1) protein, n = 5; P<0.001). Methylene blue, but not ODQ and Nomega-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME), caused a concentration-dependent contraction in the tracheal preparation. The tension produced by 100 microM methylene blue was 41.8+/-4.3% (0.3 microM carbachol as 100%; n = 12). Moreover, the non-selective muscarinic receptor antagonist atropine and the M3-selective antagonist 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodine greatly inhibited the contractile effect evoked by methylene blue (100 microM). In conclusion, this study provides substantial evidence that SNP-induced muscle relaxation in guinea-pig trachea is completely via a cyclic GMP-dependent mechanism. Furthermore, ODQ, but not methylene blue, will likely become an important tool in differentiating between cyclic GMP-dependent and -independent effects of nitric oxide.
Characterization of the relaxant action of urocortin, a new peptide related to corticotropin-releasing factor in the rat isolated basilar artery.	In addition to its well established neuroendocrine and neurotransmitter effects, corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) exerts a potent vasorelaxant action. Recently, a CRF-related peptide, urocortin, has been identified in the mammalian brain. In the present study, the cerebral vasomotor action of this peptide and the mechanism underlying its relaxant effect are characterized. Ring segments obtained from the rat basilar artery were used for measurement of isometric force. The relaxant action of urocortin, CRF and sauvagine was studied in segments with a functionally intact endothelium. In segments precontracted with prostaglandin F2alpha, urocortin, CRF and sauvagine induced concentration-related relaxation. The order of potency was as follows (pD2+/-s.e.m. given in brackets): urocortin (9.32+/-0.07) > sauvagine (9.08+/-0.08) > CRF (7.50+/-0.07). Complete relaxation was achieved with each agonist. Relaxation was not affected by removal of the endothelium but was markedly attenuated in segments precontracted with 50 mM K+ Krebs solution. The relaxant effect of urocortin was inhibited by astressin in an apparently competitive manner. A pA2 value of 7.52 was estimated for astressin. Inhibition of urocortin-induced relaxation was also observed in the presence of the adenylate cyclase inhibitor SQ22536 (pD2 in the presence of 300 microM SQ22536, 9.36+/-0.05) and the K+ channel blockers tetraethylammonium (10 mM; pD2, 8.65+/-0.07), iberiotoxin (100 nM; pD2, 8.88+/-0.08) and apamin (10 nM; pD2, 8.94+/-0.07). However, the inhibitory actions of SQ22536 and apamin or iberiotoxin were not additive. The results suggest that urocortin induces relaxation of cerebral arteries by activating CRF-R2 receptors present in the vascular wall. Relaxation appears to be mediated by adenylate cyclase stimulation and activation of Ca2+-dependent K+ channels.
Functional cross-talk between endothelial muscarinic and alpha2-adrenergic receptors in rabbit cerebral arteries.	Interactions between two classes of receptors have been observed in several cell lines and preparations. The aim of this work was to assess the impact of simultaneous stimulation of endothelial muscarinic and alpha2-adrenergic receptors (alpha2-AR) on vascular reactivity. Rabbit middle cerebral arteries were isolated and changes in isometric tension were recorded in the presence of indomethacin. Inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) synthase with Nomega-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG, 100 micromol l(-1)) revealed alpha-AR-dependent contractions. Pre-addition of acetylcholine (ACH, 1 micromol l(-1)) augmented oxymetazoline (OXY, 10 micromol l(-1), alpha2-AR agonist)-, but decreased phenylephrine (PE, 10 micromol(-1), alpha1-AR agonist)-induced contraction (P<0.05). The effects of ACH were endothelium-dependent. Vessels were precontracted with 40 mmol l(-1) KCl-physiological salt solution (PSS) in the absence of L-NOARG, or PE or OXY in the presence of L-NOARG. In the presence of high external K+ or PE, ACH induced a potent relaxation (P<0.05). In the presence of OXY, however, ACH mediated contraction (P<0.05). After pertussis toxin (PTX, inactivator of Galpha(i/o) proteins) pre-treatment, alpha2-AR-dependent contractions were abolished. Forty mmol l(-1) KCl-PSS induced contraction was not altered by PTX whereas ACH-induced relaxation was augmented (P<0.05). To investigate if endothelin-1 (ET-1) intervened in the endothelium-dependent contractile response to ACH in the presence of OXY-dependent tone, vessels were incubated in the presence of BQ123 (1 micromol l(-1)), an ETA receptor antagonist. OXY-mediated tone was not affected by BQ123; however, ACH-induced contraction was reversed to a relaxation (P<0.05). These data indicate that activation of endothelial alpha2-AR triggers an endothelium-dependent, ET-1 mediated, contraction to ACH. This suggests that activation of alpha2-AR affects muscarinic receptor/G protein coupling leading to an opposite biological effect.
Venous versus arterial actions of diethylamine/nitric oxide (DEA/NO) complex and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP) in vivo.	We studied the effects of diethylamine/NO complex (DEA/NO) and S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), relative to those of sodium nitroprusside (SNP) and nitroglycerin (NTG), on mean arterial pressure (MAP), mean circulatory filling pressure (MCFP), arterial resistance (Ra), venous resistance (Rv), heart rate (HR), cardiac output (CO) and stroke volume (SV) in groups of Inactin-anaesthetized rats pre-treated with i.v. mecamylamine (3.7 micromol kg(-1)) and noradrenaline (6.8 nmol kg(-1) min(-1)). Doses of each that reduced MAP by 30%, 80% and the lowest dose that maximally reduced MAP were examined to allow a comparison of the compounds' dilator actions at equivalent effective depressor doses. DEA/NO (4, 32 and 256 microg kg(-1) min(-1)), SNAP (4, 32 and 256 microg kg(-1) min(-1)) and SNP (8, 32 and 128 microg kg(-1) min(-1)) caused similar dose-dependent reductions in MAP and Ra, and increases in CO and SV. NTG (0.2, 0.8 and 6.4 microg kg(-1) min(-1)) dose-dependently reduced Ra, and increased CO and SV, but lowered MAP only at the highest dose. DEA/NO, SNAP and SNP but not NTG lowered MCFP with efficacy: DEA/NO > SNAP > SNP. All four drugs reduced Rv with efficacy: DEA/NO approximately equal to SNAP > SNP approximately equal to NTG. Therefore, all compounds lowered Ra and Rv. DEA/NO, SNAP and SNP but not NTG reduced MCFP. The pharmacological profiles of DEA/NO and SNAP resemble SNP more than NTG.
Evidence that platelets promote tube formation by endothelial cells on matrigel.	The involvement of platelets in neovascularization was investigated in the matrigel tube formation assay, an in vitro model of angiogenesis. Platelets promoted the formation of capillary-like structures (expressed as relative tube area) number- and time-dependently. Relative tube area increased from 0.98+/-0.02 (n = 8) in the presence of 6.25 x 10(4), to 3.21+/-0.12 (n=8) in the presence of 10(6) platelets/well compared to 0.54+/-0.04 (n=8) in their absence. This increase was unaffected by acetyl salicylic acid (ASA), apyrase, and hirudin. Photographs from representative experiments, showed that platelets adhered along the differentiating endothelium. Addition of alpha-thrombin (0.1-1 i.u. ml(-1)), the nitric oxide (NO) donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP; 1-100 microM) or the NO synthase inhibitor, L-NG-arginine-methylester (L-NAME, 30-300 microM) to the assay, had no effect on tube formation compared to that seen with platelets alone. Neuraminidase (0.01 i.u./10(7) platelets), which strips sialic acid residues from membrane glycoproteins, abolished the promoting effect of platelets on tube formation. The relative tube area in the presence of neuraminidase-treated platelets was 0.81+/-0.03 (n = 8), in the presence of untreated platelets 1.69+/-0.09, P<0.001 (n=8) and in the absence of platelets, 0.80+/-0.04 (n=8). The tetrapeptide Arg-Gly-Asp-Ser (RGDS; 20-200 microM) which inhibits von Willebrand factor, fibrinogen and fibronectin-mediated adhesion, had no effect on the promoting effect of platelets on tube formation. These results indicate that platelets promote angiogenesis in vitro. This effect is largely independent from activation by alpha-thrombin, is not modified by manipulating NO and prostaglandin metabolism and proceeds possibly through adhesion of the platelets to the differentiating endothelium.
Nitric oxide release mediates vasodilator responses to endomorphin 1 but not nociceptin/OFQ in the hindquarters vascular bed of the rat.	We have recently shown that endomorphin 1, an endogenous ligand for the mu-opioid receptor, and nociceptin (Orphanin FQ; OFQ), an endogenous ligand for the ORL1 receptor, have substantial vasodilator activity in the hindquarters vascular bed of the rat. In the present study, the role of nitric oxide, vasodilator prostaglandins, and the opening of K+ ATP channels in mediating vasodilator responses to endomorphin 1, PL017, and DAMGO was investigated in the regional vascular bed in the rat. Under constant-flow conditions, injections of the mu-selective agonists endomorphin 1, PL017 ([N-MePhe3,D-Pro4]-morphiceptin), and DAMGO, and the ORL1 receptor agonist nociceptin/ OFQ produced dose-dependent decreases in hindquarters perfusion pressure. Vasodilator responses to endomorphin 1, PL017, and DAMGO, and the endothelium-dependent vasodilators acetylcholine and adrenomedullin were attenuated by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor L-NAME (50 mg/kg IV) at a time when vasodilator responses to nociceptin/OFQ were not altered. Vasodilator responses to isoproterenol and prostaglandin E1, agents known to increase cAMP levels, and the nitric oxide donor DEA/NO were not altered by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor. Responses to endomorphin 1, PL017, DAMGO, and nociceptin/OFQ were not altered by sodium meclofenamate at a time when vasodilator responses to arachidonic acid were reduced significantly or after administration of U-37883A at a time when vasodilator responses to levcromakalim were reduced significantly. The results of these studies indicate that responses to endomorphin 1, PL017, and DAMGO are mediated in large part by the release of nitric oxide, while responses to nociceptin/OFQ are mediated by an L-NAME-insensitive mechanism. Moreover, these results demonstrate that responses to these peptides are not mediated by the release of vasodilator prostaglandins or the opening of K+ATP channels the hindquarters vascular bed.
Lysophosphatidylcholine potentiates vascular contractile responses by enhancing vasoconstrictor-induced increase in cytosolic free Ca2+ in rat aorta.	We investigated the effects of palmitoyl-L-alpha-lysophosphatidylcholine on the contractile responses of the endothelium-denuded rat aorta to high K+, noradrenaline, UK14,304 (5-bromo-6-[2-imidazolin-2-ylamino]-quinoxaline) (a selective alpha2 adrenoceptor agonist) and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA). Lysophosphatidylcholine at concentrations from 10(-6) M to 10(-4) M did not contract aortic strips. However, lysophosphatidylcholine strongly potentiated the UK14,304-induced contraction. High K+ - and PMA-induced contractions were also potentiated. In contrast, the noradrenaline-induced contraction was only slightly potentiated by 10(-5) M lysophosphatidylcholine. In fura PE-3-loaded aortic strips, lysophosphatidylcholine (10(-5) M) markedly augmented the increase in both cytosolic free Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) and contractile tension induced by UK14,304, high K+ and PMA. Nicardipine (10(-7) M) and 10(-6) M Ro-31-8220 (1-[3-(amidinothio)propyl-1H-indoyl-3-yl]-3-(1-methyl-1H-++ +indoyl-3-yl)-maleimide-methane sulfate) strongly inhibited the increase in [Ca2+]i and contractile tension induced by UK14,304 and in the presence of these inhibitors, the enhancing effects of lysophosphatidylcholine were attenuated. However, the enhancing effect on high K+ -induced contraction was not affected by Ro-31-8220. These results suggest that lysophosphatidylcholine may cause an augmentation of the increase in [Ca2+]i induced by UK14,304 which response is depend on protein kinase C activation and in this way potentiate contractile responses in the rat aorta. Protein kinase C independent mechanisms may also be involved in the enhancing effect of lysophosphatidylcholine on smooth muscle contraction.
Ba2+ selectively inhibits receptor-mediated contraction of the esophageal muscularis mucosae.	The aim of the present study was to examine the effect of Ba2+ on acetylcholine- and KCl-induced contractions of the guinea-pig esophageal muscularis mucosae. When the muscularis mucosae was pretreated with nicardipine (1 microM), Ba2+ (0.1-30 mM) markedly inhibited the acetylcholine (3 microM)-induced tone, and at 10-30 mM the tone returned to its basal level. In contrast, Ba2+ (0.1-30 mM) slightly increased the KCl (60 mM)-induced tone. Moreover, the Ba2+ (30 mM)-increased KCl tone was completely inhibited by treatment with nicardipine (0.3-1 microM). In conclusion, Ba2+ both selectively inhibits receptor-mediated contraction of the muscularis mucosae and itself permeates through voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels.
The pivotal role of adrenomedullin in producing hyperdynamic circulation during the early stage of sepsis.	Initial cardiovascular responses during sepsis are characterized by hyperdynamic circulation. Although studies have shown that a novel potent vasodilatory peptide, adrenomedullin (ADM), is up-regulated under such conditions, it remains unknown whether ADM is responsible for initiating the hyperdynamic response.
Microvascular endothelial cell control of peripheral vascular resistance during sepsis.	To determine the endothelial-dependent control of decreased peripheral vascular resistance in skeletal muscle microvessels during evolving sepsis.
Effects of YT-146 [2-(1-octynyl) adenosine], an adenosine A2A receptor agonist, on cAMP production and noradrenaline release in PC12 cells.	Effects of YT-146 [2-(1-octynyl) adenosine], an adenosine A2 receptor agonist, on cAMP production and noradrenaline (NA) release were investigated in PC12 cells. YT-146 caused a concentration-dependent cAMP accumulation (EC50: 1.2+/-0.9 nM). In [3H]NA-prelabeled cells, YT-146 increased the basal NA release and enhanced ATP-evoked NA release in a concentration-dependent manner (EC50: 0.23+/-0.15 nM). YT-146 augmented the maximal response to ATP without affecting the EC50 value of ATP. These effects of YT-146 were inhibited by several adenosine receptor antagonists with a characteristic of adenosine A2A receptor subtype. The effects of YT-146 were mimicked by forskolin, dibutylyl cAMP and Sp-cAMPS, and inhibited by H-89, a cAMP-dependent protein kinase inhibitor. YT-146 had little effect on ATP-induced increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration. YT-146 enhanced the NA release induced by several different stimuli including Ca2+ ionophore A23187. The present results suggest that YT-146 is a potent agonist on adenosine A2A receptors in PC12 cells and causes a cAMP-dependent enhancement of NA release by affecting the exocytosis process at a point downstream of the intracellular Ca2+ increase.
In vitro effects of calcium dobesilate on the responsiveness of spontaneously diabetic rat aorta.	We tested the effect of calcium dobesilate (DOBE) in aorta from spontaneously diabetic (BB/wor) rats. The contraction induced by 10(-6) M noradrenaline (NA) in BB/wor rats was smaller than that induced in control rats (1.21+/-0.11 vs 0.82+/-0.02 g, P<0.01, n=8, respectively) in arteries with intact endothelium. Incubation with DOBE (10(-4) M) impaired the contractions induced by NA in BB/wor rats (1.21+/-0.11 vs 0.67+/-0.01 g, P<0.01, n=8). The effect of DOBE was reversed by 10(-6) M propranolol (0.67+/-0.01 vs 1.20+/-0.60g, P<0.001, n=8, with 10(-4) M DOBE and 10(-4)M DOBE plus 10(-6) M propranolol, respectively). DOBE increased the endothelium-dependent relaxation in arteries from diabetic rats. These findings suggest that DOBE might improve vascular reactivity in BB/wor rats.
Relation of myocardial perfusion at rest and during pharmacologic stress to the PET patterns of tissue viability in patients with severe left ventricular dysfunction.	Stress perfusion imaging can assess effectively the amount of jeopardized myocardium, but its use for identifying underperfused but viable myocardium has yielded variable results. We evaluated the relation between measurements of myocardial perfusion at rest and during pharmacologic stress and the patterns of tissue viability as determined by positron emission tomographic (PET) imaging.
Use of 123I-IMP brain SPET to predict outcome following STA-MCA bypass surgery: cerebral blood flow but not vasoreactivity is a predictive parameter.	Superficial temporal artery - middle cerebral artery (STA-MCA) bypass surgery might improve the cerebral blood flow (CBF) but fail to reduce the risk of post-surgical events such as ischaemic stroke. In this study, we studied retrospectively whether the risk of post-surgical events corresponded to the change in resting CBF and/or the change in vasoreactivity observed before and after STA-MCA surgery using N-isopropyl-I-123-p-iodoamphetamine (123I-IMP) brain single-photon emission tomography (SPET). 123I-IMP brain SPET images obtained at rest and following acetazolamide challenge both before and after STA-MCA surgery were studied in 30 patients. Resting CBF was estimated semiquantitatively using the resting count ratios of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) area to the cerebellum. Acetazolamide c hallenge was assumed to result in an average increase in flow of 40% in the cerebellum. The vasoreactive response was then estimated as the ratio of the change in counts (acetazolamide - rest) to the resting cerebellar counts multiplied by 1.4. We classified 14 patients (50.5 +/- 19.3 years) into group I, who h a change in their resting CBF from before to after surgery of >10%, and 16 patients (54.0 +/- 18.8 years) into group II, who had a change in their resting CBF from before to after surgery of leq10%. Oxygen-15 positron emission tomography (PET) studies were performed in five patients from group I and five patients from group II. One post-surgical event occurred in group I while there were eight post-surgical events in group II (P<0.05). Resting CBF improved by 20.4% +/- 7.5% in group I and by 0.9% +/- 6.9% in group II patients after surgery (P<0.001). No significant difference in the improvement in vasoreactivity was observed between group I patients (32.6% +/- 17.7%) and group II patients (24.6% +/- 15.6%) following surgery. Patients in the group I PET subset showed normalization of oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) from 0.59 +/- 0.09 before surgery to 0.46 +/- 0.06 after surgery (P<0.05), while patients in the group II PET subset showed no statistical difference in OEF before surgery (0.58 +/- 0.14) and after surgery (0.54 +/- 0.05). We conclude that the outcome of STA-MCA bypass surgery can be predicted by the improvement in resting CBF but not by the improvement in vasoreactivity.
Reduced reactivity of the middle cerebral artery and its large branches after cold lesion.	The aim of this study was to measure vascular reactivity in the isolated middle cerebral artery (MCA) after brain injury. Segments of MCA were prepared from control, sham-operated, and cold-lesioned rats. Cold lesion was induced by application of a precooled (-78 degrees C) copper cylinder (diameter 5 mm) for 60 sec to the intact dura over the parietal cortex. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) (10(-12) to 3 x 10(-7) M) induced a dose-dependent contraction with a pD2 (-log10 EC50) of 8.36+/-0.12 (mean+/-SEM) and an Emax (maximal response) of 2.41+/-0.15 mN (millinewton) at 10(-7) M in sham-operated animals under resting conditions. This maximum contraction induced by 10(-7) M ET-1 was significantly (p < 0.05) reduced 24 and 48 h after cold lesion by 41% and 30%, respectively. After precontraction with 10(-5) M prostaglandin (PG) F2alpha, ET-3 (10(-12) to 10(-8) M) relaxed the MCA with an Emax of 0.42+/-0.07 mN at 10(-8) M and a pD2 of 9.20+/-0.19 in sham-operated animals. This relaxation was reduced 24 and 48 h after cold lesion by 19% and 62% at 10(-8) M, respectively. Concentration-effect curves for bradykinin (BK, 10(-8) to 10(-5) M) in uridine triphosphate (UTP, 10(-4) M)-precontracted MCA segments revealed relaxation with a pD2 of 7.08+/-0.10 and an Emax of 0.65+/-0.06 mN at 10(-6) M in sham-treated animals. This effect of BK was reduced by 35% and 20% at 10(-6) M 24 and 48 h after cold lesion, respectively. In addition, the contractile responses to 124 mM K+, 10(-5) M PGF2alpha and the dilation induced by 10(-3) sodium nitroprusside (SNP) were reduced in MCA segments taken 24 and 48 h after lesion compared with shams. We conclude that attenuation of ET effects can be explained, at least in part, by tachyphylaxis to ETs. The unspecific reduction of vascular reactivity may result from spreading depression.
Force, membrane potential and cytoplasmic Ca2+ responses to cyclic nucleotides in rat anococcygeus muscle.	Simultaneous recordings of membrane potential and force, and cytoplasmic calcium ([Ca2+]i) and force were made in rat anococcygeus to determine whether membrane hyperpolarisation plays a role in cyclic nucleotide-induced relaxation. In the presence of phenylephrine (0.2 microM), which evoked sustained contraction, an elevation in [Ca2+]i, and depolarisation, nitroprusside (5 microM) caused 96+/-3% relaxation, 77+/-3% decrease in suprabasal [Ca2+]i, and 16+/-2 mV hyperpolarisation. Forskolin (1 microM) caused 98+/-1% relaxation, 92+/-2% decrease in suprabasal [Ca2+]i, and 18+/-1 mV hyperpolarisation. These responses persisted in the presence of a variety of K+ channel blockers or in ouabain. The decrease in [Ca2+]i preceded the commencement of relaxation whereas the onset of hyperpolarisation lagged behind. Thus, cyclic nucleotide-mediated relaxation in rat anococcygeus is not dependent on hyperpolarisation mediated by the opening of K+ channels. Rather, it is suggested that the decrease in [Ca2+]i gives rise to hyperpolarisation, which reflects a decline in the Ca2+ dependent conductance(s) activated by phenylephrine.
