Cloning and sequence analyses of cDNAs encoding vasotocin and isotocin precursors of chum salmon, Oncorhynchus keta: evolutionary relationships of neurohypophysial hormone precursors.	The nucleotide sequences of cloned cDNAs were used to determine the primary structures of the precursors of vasotocin (sVT) and isotocin (sIT) from the hypothalamus of the chum salmon, Oncorhynchus keta. Two different cDNAs were obtained for each of sVT and sIT precursors (sVT-I and sVT-II; sIT-I and sIT-II). Both sVT and sIT precursors were found to contain a signal peptide and hormone that is connected to a neurophysin by a Gly-Lys-Arg sequence. Northern and Southern blot analyses showed that the sVT and sIT genes are expressed by the same chum salmon hypothalamus, but not by the liver and kidney. Microheterogeneity was found in the nucleotide and amino acid sequences of sVT precursors between our results and the previously reported data (Heierhorst et al. 1990). The conspicuous difference is the occurrence of a stop codon in the middle of sVT-II cDNA. The carboxyl termini of both sVT and sIT neurophysins are about 30 amino acids longer than neurophysins of toad and mammalian neurohypophysial hormone precursors. Although these extended regions do not contain a glycosylation site, they show striking similarity with the glycopeptide moiety (copeptin) of toad vasotocin and mammalian vasopressin precursors. The central portion of the neurophysins shows highest homology among corresponding regions of sVT and sIT precursors. Moreover, calculation of nucleotide substitution rates suggests that a recent gene conversion may have occurred which encompasses the exon that encodes the central segment of the sVT and sIT precursors. A possible pathway for the evolution of precursor molecules of neurohypophysial hormones is discussed.
Evolution of the reproductive endocrine system in chordates.	The cephalochordate, amphioxus, is phylogenetically placed at the most primitive position in the chordate clade. Despite many studies on the endocrine system of amphioxus, definitive evidence has not been reported for the presence an endocrine system comparable to the pituitary-gonadal axis, which is important in the regulation of reproduction in vertebrates. Recent genome analyses in the amphioxus, Branchiostoma floridae, showed that it does not have any pituitary hormone genes except the thyrostimulin gene. Thyrostimulin is a heterodimeric glycoprotein hormone consisting of α and β subunits, and is present in various organs of vertebrates. Analyses of a phylogenetic tree and a synteny suggest that amphioxus' thyrostimulin is an ancestral type of the glycoprotein hormones in chordates. In addition, genes for sex steroidogenic enzymes belonging to the CYP family were found in the genome sequences. The conversion pathway of sex steroids from cholesterol to estrogen, androgen, and major sex steroids was also identified in the gonads of amphioxus in vitro. Furthermore, we demonstrated the expression of genes encoding thyrostimulin and sex steroidogenic enzymes by an in situ hybridization technique. Here, we discuss the evolution of hormones and reproductive functions in the neuroendocrine control system of chordates.
Strong genome-wide divergence between sympatric European river and brook lampreys.	Lampreys, together with hagfishes, are the only extant representatives of jawless vertebrates and thus of prime interest for the study of vertebrate evolution [1]. Most lamprey genera occur in two forms with divergent life histories: a parasitic, anadromous and a non-parasitic, freshwater resident form [2-8]. The taxonomic status of such 'paired species' is disputed, however. While indistinguishable at larval stages, but clearly distinct as adults, they cannot be differentiated with available genetic data [6,7], which has fuelled speculations that the two forms may in fact represent products of phenotypic plasticity within a single species. Here, we use restriction site-associated DNA sequencing (RADseq) to examine the genetic population structure of sympatric European river (Lampetra fluviatilis L., 1758) and brook (Lampetra planeri Bloch, 1784) lampreys. We find strong genetic differentiation and identify numerous fixed and diagnostic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) between the two species, 12 of which can be unequivocally assigned to specific genes. 
AVT is involved in the regulation of ion transport in the intestine of the sea bream (Sparus aurata).	The intestine of marine fish plays a crucial role in ion homeostasis by selective processing of ingested fluid. Although arginine vasotocin (AVT) is suggested to play a role in ion regulation in fish, its action in the intestine has not been demonstrated. Thus, the present study investigated in vitro the putative role of AVT in intestinal ion transport in the sea bream (Sparus aurata). A cDNA encoding part of an AVT receptor was isolated and phylogenetic analysis revealed it clustered with the V1a2-type receptor clade. V1a2 transcripts were expressed throughout the gastrointestinal tract, from esophagus to rectum, and were most abundant in the rectum regardless of long-term exposure to external salinities of 12, 35 or 55p.p.t. Basolateral addition of AVT (10(-6)M) to the anterior intestine and rectum of sea bream adapted to 12, 35 or 55p.p.t. mounted in Ussing chambers produced rapid salinity and region dependent responses in short circuit current (Isc), always in the absorptive direction. In addition, AVT stimulation of absorptive Isc conformed to a dose-response curve, with significant effects achieved at 10(-8)M, which corresponds to physiological values of plasma AVT for this species. The effect of AVT on intestinal Isc was insensitive to the CFTR selective inhibitor NPPB (200μM) applied apically, but was completely abolished in the presence of apical bumetanide (200μM). We propose a role for AVT in the regulation of ion absorption in the intestine of the sea bream mediated by an absorptive bumetanide-sensitive mechanism, likely NKCC2. 
Cloning and sequence analysis of cDNAs for neurohypophysial hormones vasotocin and mesotocin for the hypothalamus of toad, Bufo japonicus.	The primary structures of the precursors of neurohypophysial hormones vasotocin (VT) and mesotocin (MT) in the hypothalamus of the toad Bufo japonicus were determined by analyzing the nucleotide sequences of the cloned cDNAs encoding them. The MT precursor consists of 125 amino acid residues containing a signal peptide followed directly by MT, which in turn is connected to the MT neurophysin by Gly-Lys-Arg, a processing and carboxyl-terminal amidation signal. In contrast, the VT precursor includes a glycoprotein of 36 amino acids following the VT neurophysin. Except for glycoprotein, the structures of MT and VT precursors are quite similar. RNA transfer blotting analysis showed that both MT and VT mRNAs are present in the brain but not in the liver, ovaries, and testes of the toad. The sequences and the structural organizations of the MT and VT precursors are highly homologous to those of their mammalian counterparts, oxytocin and arginine vasopressin precursors, respectively. This fact suggests that, in the evolutionary pathway of neurohypophysial hormones, VT is the ancestor molecule of vasopressin, while MT is that of oxytocin.
Diurnal changes in the expression of genes encoding for arginine vasotocin and pituitary pro-opiomelanocortin in the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss): correlation with changes in plasma hormones.	Using quantitative in-situ hybridization, this study monitored diurnal changes in the abundance of the gene transcripts of two corticotropin-releasing peptides, arginine vasotocin (AVT) and isotocin in hypothalamic neurones, and of pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA in the pituitary of the rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss). A significant diurnal pattern of gene expression was only displayed in the hypothalamus by the parvocellular AVT neurones of the preoptic nucleus. Abundance of AVT mRNA in these neurones was low at lights on (06.00 h), increased during the morning to reach a plateau of peak values between 14.00 h and 22.00 h, and then declined during the dark phase. This pattern was the inverse of that shown by plasma cortisol values. Changes in AVT transcript abundance are also considered in terms of the reported diurnal change in circulating AVT concentration. Pituitary and hypothalamic AVT peptide content did not change. Transcripts of both POMC genes (POMC-A and POMC-B) were monitored in pituitary corticotropes and melanotropes. Only POMC-A mRNA was detected in corticotropes where it showed no diurnal change in abundance. Transcripts of both POMC genes were found in the melanotropes, although, judging from autoradiographic intensity, POMC-A mRNA predominated. Both genes showed diurnal differences in their transcription with POMC-A mRNA showing peak values at 10.00 h and a nadir at 02.00 h, while POMC-B mRNA showed an inverse pattern. The results indicate that the two POMC genes can be independently regulated.
