Mechanism of endoplasmic reticulum retention of mutant vasopressin precursor caused by a signal peptide truncation associated with diabetes insipidus.	Autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus is caused by mutations in the gene encoding the vasopressin precursor protein, prepro-vasopressin-neurophysin II. We analyzed the molecular consequences of a mutation (DeltaG227) recently identified in a Swiss kindred that destroys the translation initiation codon. In COS-7 cells transfected with the mutant cDNA, translation was found to initiate at an alternative ATG, producing a truncated signal sequence that was functional for targeting and translocation but was not cleaved by signal peptidase. The mutant precursor was completely retained within the endoplasmic reticulum. The uncleaved signal did not affect folding of the neurophysin portion of the precursor, as determined by its protease resistance. However, formation of disulfide-linked aggregates indicated that it interfered with the formation of the disulfide bond in vasopressin, most likely by blocking its insertion into the hormone binding site of neurophysin. Preventing disulfide formation in the vasopressin nonapeptide by mutation of cysteine 6 to serine was shown to be sufficient to cause aggregation and retention. These results indicate that the DeltaG227 mutation induces translation of a truncated signal sequence that cannot be cleaved but prevents correct folding and oxidation of vasopressin, thereby causing precursor aggregation and retention in the endoplasmic reticulum.
Distribution of preprovasopressin mRNA in the rat central nervous system.	Vasopressin released in the central nervous system has been shown to be involved both in homeostatic mechanisms (e.g., water balance, thermoregulation, cardiovascular regulation, metabolism, and antinociception) and in higher brain functions (e.g., social recognition and communication, and learning and memory). Many nuclear groups have been proposed to synthesize vasopressin, but available data are conflicting. We have used a sensitive in situ hybridization technique to identify the distribution of the neurons that may be the origin of the vasopressin in the central nervous system of the male Sprague-Dawley rat. Vasopressin mRNA-expressing neurons were most abundant in the hypothalamus (e.g., the paraventricular, supraoptic, and suprachiasmatic nuclei) but were also seen in the medial amygdaloid nucleus, the bed nucleus of stria terminalis, and the nucleus of the horizontal diagonal band. Previously unreported vasopressinergic neurons were seen in the entorhinal and piriform cortices, the ventral lateral portion of the parabrachial nucleus, the pedunculopontine nucleus, and the rostral part of the ventral periaqueductal gray matter and the adjacent portion of the mesencephalic reticular nucleus. Vasopressin mRNA expression suggestive of neuronal labeling was seen in the pyramidal layer of the CA1-3 fields and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. In addition, vasopressin mRNA expression, probably representing axonal mRNA, was detected over the hypothalamopituitary tract. No or insignificant preprovasopressin mRNA expression was present in the cerebellum, locus coeruleus, subcoeruleus, or the spinal cord. These findings provide novel information on the distribution of vasopressin neurons that are important for our understanding of how vasopressin acts in the brain.
Spinal cord-projecting vasopressinergic neurons in the rat paraventricular hypothalamus.	The paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVH) is a key structure for the maintenance of homeostasis. Homeostatic regulation includes modulation of signaling in the spinal cord. This may be exerted by neurons in the PVH with spinal projections. However, the PVH is not a homogeneous structure, but consists of anatomically and functionally distinct subdivisions. In this study, we have analyzed the distribution of spinal cord-projecting PVH neurons that express vasopressin, an important neuropeptide in autonomic regulation. Vasopressinergic neurons were identified with a radiolabeled riboprobe complementary to vasopressin mRNA combined with immunohistochemical labeling of retrogradely transported cholera toxin subunit b in spinally projecting neurons. More than 40% of the spinally projecting neurons in the PVH of naive Sprague-Dawley rats were found to express vasopressin mRNA. The lateral parvocellular subdivision and the ventral part of the medial parvocellular subdivision contained the densest distribution of spinal cord-projecting vasopressin mRNA-expressing neurons. The magnocellular subdivisions displayed large numbers of vasopressin mRNA-expressing neurons, but very few of those projected to the spinal cord. The dorsal parvocellular subdivision contained a large number of spinally projecting neurons, but very few of those expressed vasopressin mRNA. These findings show that the PVH gives rise to a major vasopressinergic projection to the spinal cord and that the spinal cord-projecting vasopressinergic neurons are parceled into anatomically distinct cell groups. This provides an anatomical basis for a selective activation of functionally different groups in the PVH as part of a behaviorally adaptive response, including modulation of autonomic activity and pain processing at the spinal level.
Up-regulation of vasopressin V(1a) receptor mRNA in rat facial motoneurons following axotomy.	We have reported previously that axotomy induced a marked increase of vasopressin receptor binding in the adult rat facial nucleus, suggesting an increased number of vasopressin receptors. These receptors were pharmacologically undistinguishable from peripheral V(1a) vasopressin receptors. In the present study, we show, using in situ hybridization and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), that axotomy regulates the expression of the vasopressin V(1a) receptor mRNA in the facial nucleus. Results were obtained from adult male rats killed 1 week following crush of the right facial nerve. In situ hybridization was performed with a (35)S-labelled riboprobe. A specific hybridization signal was detected in both left and right facial nuclei, with a significantly higher intensity in the nucleus ipsilateral to the lesion. V(1a) receptor transcripts were found associated with large facial motoneuronal cell bodies, not with other cells present in the nucleus, i.e., glial or epithelial cells. RT-PCR analysis of unlesioned facial tissue revealed the presence of mRNAs encoding vasopressin V(1a), vasopressin V(1b) and oxytocin receptors, whereas only the V(1a) receptor mRNA was found to be increased following axotomy in the lesioned facial tissue. These data suggest that the axotomy-induced expression of vasopressin receptors in the rat facial nucleus is due, at least to a large extent, to an increase of the V(1a) vasopressin receptor mRNA in facial motoneurons.
Mutations in the vasopressin prohormone involved in diabetes insipidus impair endoplasmic reticulum export but not sorting.	Familial neurohypophysial diabetes insipidus is characterized by vasopressin deficiency caused by heterozygous expression of a mutated vasopressin prohormone gene. To elucidate the mechanism of this disease, we stably expressed five vasopressin prohormones with a mutation in the neurophysin moiety (NP14G-->R, NP47E-->G, NP47DeltaE, NP57G-->S, and NP65G-->V) in the neuroendocrine cell lines Neuro-2A and PC12/PC2. Metabolic labeling demonstrated that processing and secretion of all five mutants was impaired, albeit to different extents (NP65G-->V >/= NP14G-->R > NP47DeltaE >/= NP47E-->G > NP57G-->S). Persisting endoglycosidase H sensitivity revealed these defects to be due to retention of mutant prohormone in the endoplasmic reticulum. Mutant prohormones that partially passed the endoplasmic reticulum were normally targeted to the regulated secretory pathway. Surprisingly, this also included mutants with mutations in residues involved in binding of vasopressin to neurophysin, a process implicated in targeting of the prohormone. To mimick the high expression in vasopressin-producing neurons, mutant vasopressin prohormones were transiently expressed in Neuro-2A cells. Immunofluorescence displayed formation of large accumulations of mutant prohormone in the endoplasmic reticulum, accompanied by redistribution of an endoplasmic reticulum marker. Our data suggest that prolonged perturbation of the endoplasmic reticulum eventually leads to degeneration of neurons expressing mutant vasopressin prohormones, explaining the dominant nature of the disease.
Differential regulation of vasopressin gene expression in the hypothalamus of endotoxin-treated 14-day-old rat.	The E. coli endotoxin 0111 B4, a lipopolysaccharide (LPS), in a dose of 200 ng/kg body weight/50 microl artificial cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was given intracisternally to 14-day-old rats. Four hours later CSF, blood and urine were sampled, and consecutive brain sections from the hypothalamic area of the brain were prepared for in situ hybridization. The LPS treatment resulted in a significant (p<0.001) pleocytosis and an elevation of the protein content of the CSF. There were no changes observed in the chemical parameters of the CSF, plasma, blood or urine, i.e. vasopressin (VP) levels, osmolality, Na+ and K+ concentrations, glucose level, pH, bicarbonate or PaCO2, PaO2 values. LPS injection, however, resulted in a significantly (p<0.01) increased VP mRNA level (121% of the control value) in the supraoptic nuclei (SON), but not in the paraventricular nuclei (PVN), as compared to controls. Our findings suggest an early effect of LPS on VP gene expression selectively in the SON of 14-days-old rats. This animal model might be suitable for studying the regulation of VP gene expression and the role of this peptide in the pathogenesis of bacterial meningitis in pediatric patients.
The circadian clock and behavior.	Temporal organization is a fundamental feature of all living systems. Timing is essential for development, growth and differentiation and in the mature organism, it is essential to maintain normal physiology and behavior. The biological entity that permits an organism's day/night organization is the circadian system. In the following, we describe how daily or circadian activity is measured in mice, and what such activity measurements can tell us about the state of the animal.
Differential routing of coexisting neuropeptides in vasopressin neurons.	The functional implications of intraneuronal coexistence of different neuropeptides depend on their respective targeting to release sites. In the rat hypothalamic magnocellular neurons, we investigated a possible differential routing of the coexpressed galanin and vasopressin. The respective location of proteins and messengers was assessed with double immunogold and in situ hybridization combining confocal and electron microscope analysis. The various populations of labelled granules were quantitatively compared in three subcellular compartments: perikarya, local processes and posthypophyseal nerve endings. Three subpopulations of granules were detected in all three compartments, but their respective amount showed significant differences. Galanin alone was immunolocalized in some secretory granules, vasopressin alone in others, and both peptides in a third subpopulation of granules. The major part of the granules containing vasopressin, either alone or in association with galanin, is found in neurohypophyseal nerve endings. In contrast, galanin single-labelled granules represent the most abundant population in dendritic processes, while double-labelled granules are more numerous in perikarya. This indicates a preferential distribution of the two peptides in the different compartments of magnocellular neurons. Furthermore, galanin and vasopressin messenger RNAs were detected at different domains of the endoplasmic reticulum, suggesting that translation might also occur at different locations, thus leading to partial segregation of galanin and vasopressin cargoes between two populations of secretory granules. The present study provides, for the first time in mammals, evidence suggesting that galanin and vasopressin are only partly copackaged and undergo a preferential targeting toward dendrites or neurohypophysis, suggesting different functions, autocrine/paracrine and endocrine, respectively.
Oxytocin, but not oxytocin receptor, is rRegulated by oestrogen receptor beta in the female mouse hypothalamus.	In the female rat, oestrogen receptor (ER) beta is colocalized with both oxytocin- and vasopressin-producing neurones in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN). In this study, we demonstrate that the same pattern of colocalization between ERbeta and oxytocin exists in the female mouse. Because this nucleus contains only a negligible quantity of ERalpha, it is likely that the oestrogen-dependent regulation of oxytocin and vasopressin synthesis in the PVN is mediated by ERbeta. Thus, we compared the effect of ovarian hormones on oxytocin and vasopressin mRNA expression in the PVN of wild-type (WT) and ERbeta knockout (betaERKO) mice. We also compared the effects of ovarian hormones on oxytocin receptor (OTR) expression in the medial amygdala (MeA) and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN) in female WT and betaERKO mice. Ovariectomized mice underwent long-term treatment with oestradiol or oil. Progesterone was given concurrently on the final 7 days of treatment, and all mice were killed 48 h after the final progesterone injection. In the PVN, hormone treatment increased oxytocin mRNA expression in WT but not betaERKO females. These results suggest that ERbeta is necessary for the regulation of the expression of oxytocin in the PVN. Hormone treatment had no effect on vasopressin mRNA expression in the PVN, but significantly increased OTR binding in both the VMN and the MeA in both genotypes. Collectively, our data show region and peptide specific regulation by ERalpha and ERbeta in the mouse hypothalamus.
Nuclear mechanisms mediate rhythmic changes in vasopressin mRNA expression in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus.	Vasopressin (VP) gene expression in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is subject to a cyclical mode of regulation which is indicative of a close association with the circadian clock intrinsic to this area of the hypothalamus. Previous studies show that both the amount and size (due to differential polyadenylation) of VP mRNA are reduced during the dark phase of the daily cycle. We have now identified the cellular site wherein these changes are mediated. By transcriptional run-on analysis of nuclei isolated at different time points from the SCN we have shown that an attenuation of transcriptional activity can account for the dark-phase reduction in VP mRNA levels; by comparison with other genes expressed in this tissue, a significant, VP gene-specific reduction was observed which resulted in dark-phase transcriptional activity at 30% of light-phase activity (P less than 0.005). A similar diurnal variation was not found in the supraoptic nucleus. In addition, by Northern analysis of sub-cellular RNA pools, we have demonstrated that the smaller, dark-phase-specific VP RNA species is located, in abundance, within the nuclear fraction. These results provide clear evidence that the cyclical changes in SCN VP mRNA expression are primarily regulated within the nucleus, indicating that any potential regulation in the cytoplasm is of secondary importance. Further analysis of the molecular components which mediate the cyclical changes in transcriptional activity of the VP gene may identify fundamental aspects of neuronal timing mechanisms.
Expression of tropomyosin-encoding gene in the kidney depends on functioning of vasopressin gene.	Brattleboro diabetes insipidus mutant rats and normal WAG rats were subjected to water loading or thirst during 3 days. It was found that tropomyosin-encoding gene expression has a tissue-specific pattern in the kidney. Northern blot and western blot analysis had shown that the main expression of Tpm3(3) takes place in the renal medulla, and its intensity differs in normal and mutant rats. The differences between mutants with an ineffective vasopressin synthesizing system and the rats having an intact vasopressin gene were more distinct under long-lasting dehydration. The ratio between renal medullary tropomyosin of Brattleboro and WAG lines of rats was 39.76 +/- 0.90 versus 18.29 +/- 0.86 under water loading, and 46.12 +/- 2.14 versus 13.83 +/- 0.66 in thirst.
A novel mutation in the preprovasopressin gene identified in a kindred with autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus.	Autosomal dominant neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (ADNDI) is a defect in free water conservation caused by mutations in the single gene that encodes both vasopressin (VP) and its binding protein, neurophysin II (NP II). Most of the human mutations in this gene have been in the portion encoding the NP molecule; the resultant abnormal gene products are believed to cause cellular toxicity as improperly folded precursor molecules accumulate in the endoplasmic reticulum. We identified a new American kindred with ADNDI and found a novel mutation in the VP molecule. A 78-yr-old man was noted to have hypotonic polyuria and plasma hyperosmolarity; the urinary concentration defect was reversed by administration of VP. His symptomatology dated to childhood, and his family history was consistent with autosomal transmission of the polyuric syndrome, with affected members in three generations, including several females. Affected individuals were found to be heterozygous for a 3-bp deletion in exon 1 of arginine VP (AVP)-NP II, predicting a deletion of phenylalanine 3 (known to be critical for receptor binding) in the VP nonapeptide. Neuro 2A cells stably transfected with the mutant AVP-NP construct showed increased rates of apoptosis as assessed by flow cytometric methods. These observations support the concept that cellular toxicity of abnormal AVP-NP gene products underlies the development of ADNDI, and the data further demonstrate that mutations affecting the AVP moiety can result in initiation of these pathological processes.
Temporal and spatial expression patterns of canonical clock genes and clock-controlled genes in the suprachiasmatic nucleus.	In mammals, the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus control endogenous circadian rhythms and entrainment to the environment. A core SCN region of calbindin (CalB)-containing cells is retinorecipient and the cells therein lack rhythmic expression of clock genes and electrical activity. The core is surrounded by a 'shell' of rhythmic oscillator cells. In the present experiments, we studied the spatial arrangement of oscillator cells by examining the spatial and temporal patterns of expression of the canonical clock genes Per1, Per2 and vasopressin mRNA, a clock-controlled gene. Surprisingly, in the SCN shell, the dorsomedial cells were the first to rhythmically express both Per1 and VP mRNA, with gene expression then spreading very slowly through much of the nucleus for the next 12 h then receding to baseline levels. Following a light pulse, Per expression increased after 1 h in the core SCN and after 1.5 h in the shell. Although expression in the shell occurred earlier in light-pulsed animals than in those housed in constant darkness, it still followed the same spatial and temporal expression pattern as was observed in constant darkness. The results suggest that not only is the SCN organized into light-responsive and rhythmic regions but also that the rhythmic region of the SCN itself has an ordered arrangement of SCN oscillator cells.
Polymorphisms in FKBP5 are associated with increased recurrence of depressive episodes and rapid response to antidepressant treatment.	The stress hormone-regulating hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis has been implicated in the causality as well as the treatment of depression. To investigate a possible association between genes regulating the HPA axis and response to antidepressants and susceptibility for depression, we genotyped single-nucleotide polymorphisms in eight of these genes in depressed individuals and matched controls. We found significant associations of response to antidepressants and the recurrence of depressive episodes with single-nucleotide polymorphisms in FKBP5, a glucocorticoid receptor-regulating cochaperone of hsp-90, in two independent samples. These single-nucleotide polymorphisms were also associated with increased intracellular FKBP5 protein expression, which triggers adaptive changes in glucocorticoid receptor and, thereby, HPA-axis regulation. Individuals carrying the associated genotypes had less HPA-axis hyperactivity during the depressive episode. We propose that the FKBP5 variant-dependent alterations in HPA-axis regulation could be related to the faster response to antidepressant drug treatment and the increased recurrence of depressive episodes observed in this subgroup of depressed individuals. These findings support a central role of genes regulating the HPA axis in the causality of depression and the mechanism of action of antidepressant drugs.
Long-lasting effects of serotonin deficiency on differentiating peptidergic neurons in the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus.	Serotonin (5-HT, 5-hydroxytryptamine) is known to be an inductor of the brain development [Whitaker-Azmitia, P.M., Druse, M., Walker, P., Lauder, J.M., 1996. Serotonin as a developmental signal. Behav. Brain Res. 73, 19-29; Ugrumov, M.V., 1997. Hypothalamic monoaminergic systems in ontogenesis: development and functional significance. Int. J. Dev. Biol. 41, 809-816]. This study was aimed to test whether it provides long-lasting effects on the differentiating vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and vasopressin (VP) neurons of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) in rats. To this aim, 5-HT was depleted in fetal brain by daily injections of p-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA), an inhibitor of 5-HT synthesis, to pregnant rats from the 13th to the 21st day of gestation. Pregnant rats injected with saline served as controls. The offsprings (males) of pCPA-treated and control pregnant rats were maintained after birth for two months under normal laboratory conditions. Then, the SCN was processed for immunocytochemistry of VIP and VP and in situ hybridization of appropriate mRNAs. There were no differences in concentrations of VIP and VP mRNAs in the SCN in adult offsprings of the 5-HT-depleted pregnant rats compared to the controls. Moreover, 5-HT deficiency did not induce any change in size of VIP-immunoreactive (IR) and VP-IR neurons. Conversely, both the numbers of VIP- and VP-immunoreactive neurons and concentrations of the peptides in cell bodies increased significantly. It is concluded that 5-HT provides long-lasting effects on differentiating VIP and VP neurons in the SCN resulting in attenuated release rather than elevated synthesis of both peptides in adulthood.
Autophagy-dependent cell survival and cell death in an autosomal dominant familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus in vitro model.	Mutations in the human gene encoding the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (VP) cause autosomal dominant familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (adFNDI), a rare inherited disorder that presents as polydipsia and polyuria as a consequence of a loss of secretion of VP from posterior pituitary nerve terminals. Work from our laboratories has shown that adFNDI, like other neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's, is associated with autophagy. We have recently shown that the activation of autophagy in mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2a cells after adenoviral vector-mediated delivery of an adFNDI mutant VP transgene (Cys67stop) is a cell survival mechanism; its inhibition induces apoptosis. We now show that expression of Cys67stop sensitizes Neuro2a cells to the lethal effects of dopamine. This mode of cell death exhibits features typically associated with classical apoptosis. Yet inhibition of autophagy reversed these effects and rescued cell viability. We propose that autophagy-mediated cell death is a "two-hit" process: Following the cellular stress of the accumulation of a misfolded mutant protein, autophagy is prosurvival. However, a second insult triggers an autophagy-dependent apoptosis.
Autophagy is a prosurvival mechanism in cells expressing an autosomal dominant familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus mutant vasopressin transgene.	Autosomal dominant familial neurohypophyseal diabetes insipidus (adFNDI) is a progressive, inherited neurodegenerative disorder that presents as polydipsia and polyuria as a consequence of a loss of secretion of the antidiuretic hormone vasopressin (VP) from posterior pituitary nerve terminals. VP gene mutations cause adFNDI. Rats expressing an adFNDI VP transgene (Cys67stop) show a neuronal pathology characterized by autophagic structures in the cell body. adFNDI has thus been added to the list of protein aggregation diseases, along with Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's, which are associated with autophagy, a bulk process that delivers regions of cytosol to lysosomes for degradation. However, the role of autophagy in these diseases is unclear. To address the relationships between mutant protein accumulation, autophagy, cell survival, and cell death, we have developed a novel and tractable in vitro system. We have constructed adenoviral vectors (Ads) that express structural genes encoding either the Cys67stop mutant protein (Ad-VCAT-Cys67stop) or an epitope-tagged wild-type VP precursor (Ad-VCAT). After infection of mouse neuroblastoma Neuro2a cells, Ad-VCAT encoded material enters neurite processes and accumulates in terminals, while the Cys67stop protein is confined to enlarged vesicles in the cell body. Similar to the intracellular derangements seen in the Cys67stop rats, these structures are of ER origin, and colocalize with markers of autophagy. Neither Ad-VCAT-Cys67stop nor Ad-VCAT expression affected cell viability. However, inhibition of autophagy or lysosomal protein degradation, while having no effect on Ad-VCAT-expressing cells, significantly increased apoptotic cell death following Ad-VCAT-Cys67stop expression. These data suggest that activation of autophagy by the stress of the expression of an adFNDI mutant protein is a prosurvival mechanism.
Evolution of the vasopressin/oxytocin superfamily: characterization of a cDNA encoding a vasopressin-related precursor, preproconopressin, from the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis.	Although the nonapeptide hormones vasopressin, oxytocin, and related peptides from vertebrates and some nonapeptides from invertebrates share similarities in amino acid sequence, their evolutionary relationships are not clear. To investigate this issue, we cloned a cDNA encoding a vasopressin-related peptide, Lys-conopressin, produced in the central nervous system of the gastropod mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. The predicted preproconopressin has the overall architecture of vertebrate preprovasopressin, with a signal peptide, Lys-conopressin, that is flanked at the C terminus by an amidation signal and a pair of basic residues, followed by a neurophysin domain. The Lymnaea neurophysin and the vertebrate neurophysins share high sequence identity, which includes the conservation of all 14 cysteine residues. In addition, the Lymnaea neurophysin possesses unique structural characteristics. It contains a putative N-linked glycosylation site at a position in the vertebrate neurophysins where a strictly conserved tyrosine residue, which plays an essential role in binding of the nonapeptide hormones, is found. The C-terminal copeptin homologous extension of the Lymnaea neurophysin has low sequence identity with the vertebrate counterparts and is probably not cleaved from the prohormone, as are the mammalian copeptins. The conopressin gene is expressed in only a few neurons in both pedal ganglia of the central nervous system. The conopressin transcript is present in two sizes, due to alternative use of polyadenylylation signals. The data presented here demonstrate that the typical organization of the prohormones of the vasopressin/oxytocin superfamily must have been present in the common ancestors of vertebrates and invertebrates.
A new peptide of the oxytocin/vasopressin family isolated from nerves of the cephalopod Octopus vulgaris.	An oxytocin/vasopressin-immunoreactive peptide was isolated from nerve terminals of the 'neurosecretory system of the vena cava' in octopus. It was purified by HPLC combined with a RIA for oxytocin. Characterization of the peptide by automated Edman degradation, plasma desorption mass spectroscopy, enzymatic treatment and coelution experiments resulted in the structure: Cys-Tyr-Phe-Arg-Asn-Cys-Pro-Ile-Gly-NH2, a nonapeptide with a molecular weight of 1070 Da and a 1-6 disulfide bond. This cephalopod neuropeptide, here called 'cephalotocin', exhibits 78% sequence homology with the vertebrate neurohypophysial hormone mesotocin and clearly belongs to the oxytocin/vasopressin family of vertebrates, confirming the high conservation of this peptide family.
Gene therapy of pituitary diseases.	Despite a stuttering course, gene therapy continues to provide a potential treatment avenue for many human diseases, including cancer and various inherited disorders. Gene therapy is also attractive for the treatment of local, benign disorders, such as pituitary adenomas. Advances in technology have focused on modifying existing viral vectors and developing targeted expression of therapeutic genes in an effort to achieve efficacy with minimal toxicity. Gene therapy also offers innovative strategies for treating hypopituitarism by replacing hormones such as growth hormone (GH) and vasopressin.
Wocko, a neurological mutant generated in a transgenic mouse pedigree.	Naturally occurring mutations involving the nervous system have provided virtually all of our current understanding of the genetic regulation of neural development (Caviness and Rakic, 1978). The difficulty of isolating the corresponding genes, however, has precluded a molecular analysis of these mutants. Insertional mutagenesis, induced by microinjection of DNA into fertilized ova to produce transgenic animals, provides a molecular tag that marks the site of the mutational event. In this article, we describe a transgenic neurological mutation, designated wocko (Wo), which disrupts the development of the inner ear. These mutant mice display a dominant behavioral phenotype that consists of circling, hyperactivity, and head tossing, reminiscent of the shaker/waltzer class of mutants, and they display a recessive homozygous sublethal phenotype. Anatomical analyses showed that both structural and neural components of the vestibular system were disrupted, while analyses of mutant fetuses showed that these morphological abnormalities were due to aberrant development. Although low levels of transgene expression were detected using a sensitive PCR assay, several nonmutant pedigrees that contain the same construct also expressed the transgene in the inner ear, suggesting that low levels of transgene expression alone were not responsible for the wocko phenotype. Because the integrated transgene provides a marker to clone the wocko mutation, the analysis of this mutant will give unique insight into the molecular genetics of inner ear development and into a broad class of neurological mutations that affect the inner ear.
Rapid changes in poly (A) tail length of vasopressin and oxytocin mRNAs form a common early component of neurohypophyseal peptide gene activation following physiological stimulation.	The time course of acute changes in vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) mRNA size and level during dehydration has been studied in rats. Total RNA was extracted from samples of the supraoptic nucleus at various intervals after water deprivation, subjected to northern blotting, and probed with oligonucleotides specific for VP and OT mRNA. The VP and OT mRNA size, shown previously to reflect 3'-poly (A) tail length, was consistently increased 2 h after dehydration, prior to significant changes in plasma osmolality or haematocrit. Intraperitoneal administration of hypertonic saline resulted in a similarly rapid VP and OT mRNA size response, in some cases within 1 h of treatment. The effect of a discrete hypovolaemic stimulus was investigated with intraperitoneal injections of polyethylene glycol; again, the VP and OT mRNA size was rapidly increased. No significant changes in mRNA level were observed in any of the experimental groups. The results show that an increase in VP and OT mRNA poly(A) tail length forms an acute and general response to activation of the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system. The rapidity of the poly (A) tail response, which appears to be independent of physiological signalling mechanisms associated with increases in mRNA accumulation (observed after 2 days of dehydration), provides a paradigm for the investigation of novel modes of neuronal gene regulation.
Rat vasopressin and oxytocin genes are linked by a long interspersed repeated DNA element (LINE): sequence and transcriptional analysis of LINE.	Sequence analysis of the rat vasopressin and oxytocin gene family reveals that the two genes are linked by a long interspersed repeated DNA element (LINE) giving rise to seven long open reading frames encoding hypothetical proteins of 99 to 556 amino acid residues. Furthermore, although both DNA strands of LINEs serve as templates for transcription, transcripts initiated at the 3' end are more abundant than those started from the 5' end. The LINEs are transcribed preferentially in brain tissues as analyzed by Northern blot, in situ hybridization, and RNase protection experiments. The data show that most LINEs are transcribed at their entire length and that a major fraction of respective RNAs does not enter the cytoplasm but remains in the cell nucleus.
Testicular oxytocin gene expression in seminiferous tubules of cattle and transgenic mice.	We are using transgenic mice to study the regulation of the bovine vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) genes. Prompted by the observation that mice bearing a bovine OT transgene express bovine OT RNA in their testes, we investigated the expression of the VP-OT locus in normal mice and cattle. Normal wild-type mice do not have detectable levels of either VP or OT RNA in their testes. Normal cattle are also devoid of detectable VP transcripts, but have relatively high levels of testicular OT RNA. Additionally, OT, but not VP, peptide is detectable by HPLC. In situ hybridization to RNA in bovine testicular tissue sections localized OT transcripts to seminiferous tubules, with a distribution similar to that of alpha-inhibin, suggesting expression in Sertoli cells. Interestingly, the bovine OT RNAs in the transgenic mouse testes were also shown by in situ hybridization to have the same distribution. These data suggest that the cis-acting regulatory sequences responsible for expression of the OT gene in bovine Sertoli testis reside within the limits of the transgene used in this study. Further, the trans-acting factors present in murine testicular cells are able to recognize these elements, although they do not express the endogenous mouse OT gene in this tissue.
Vasopressin and oxytocin gene expression in rat testis.	The vasopressin (VP) gene is expressed as three different transcripts in the rat testis. Using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis we have been able to identify a VP RNA that is identical in exonic structure to that found in the hypothalamus. However, the abundance of this form is very low, and it cannot be detected by Northern blotting. Two VP RNAs with a novel structure, as shown using exon-specific probes, are present in higher abundance. By differential hybridization, sequencing of a cDNA clone, and PCR we have deduced the structure of these novel transcripts. Both of the novel testicular VP RNA species share two exons with the classical hypothalamic RNA. However, the testicular VP gene-derived RNA lacks the first exon of the hypothalamic transcript, the exon that contains the sequence information for the VP nonopeptide hormone. Instead, it has novel sequence that are derived from at least two unique testis-specific exons, one of which is located 7-10 kilobase up-stream of the brain-specific start of transcription. These two unusual transcripts are probably derived by alternative splicing of at least two up-stream exons. Sequence and polysome analyses indicate that the testicular VP RNAs are probably not translated. Northern blotting revealed that the VP gene-derived RNA species are tightly regulated during postnatal development, becoming apparent by 40 days of age, although they subsequently fail to respond to a variety of physiological perturbations. Oxytocin gene transcripts are not detectable by Northern hybridization, but the authentic hypothalamic-type RNA can be detected in the rat testis using PCR analysis.
Vasopressin-containing neurons of the hypothalamic parvocellular paraventricular nucleus of the jerboa: plasticity related to immobilization stress.	The corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons of the hypothalamic parvocellular paraventricular nucleus (PVN) have a high potential for phenotypical plasticity, allowing them to rapidly modify their neuroendocrine output, depending upon the type of stressors. Indeed, these neurons coexpress other neuropeptides, such as cholecystokinin (CCK), vasopressin (VP), and neurotensin, subserving an eventual complementary function to CRH in the regulation of the pituitary. Unlike in rats, our previous data showed that in jerboas, CCK is not coexpressed within CRH neurons in control as well as stressed animals. The present study explored an eventual VP participation in the phenotypic plasticity of CRH neurons in the jerboa. We analyzed the VP expression within the PVN by immunocytochemistry in male jerboas submitted to acute stress. Our results showed that, contrary to CRH and CCK, no significant change concerned the number of VP-immunoreactive neurons following a 30-min immobilization. The VP/CRH coexpression within PVN and median eminence was investigated by double immunocytochemistry. In control as well as stressed animals, the CRH-immunopositive neurons coexpressed VP within cell bodies and terminals. No significant difference in the number of VP/CRH double-labeled cells was found between both groups. However, such coexpression was quantitatively more important into the posterior PVN as compared with the anterior PVN. This suggests an eventual autocrine/paracrine or endocrine role for jerboa parvocellular VP which is not correlated with acute immobilization stress. VP-immunoreactive neurons also coexpressed CCK within PVN and median eminence of control and stressed jerboas. Such coexpression was more important into the anterior PVN as compared with the posterior PVN. These results showed the occurrence of at least two VP neuronal populations within the jerboa PVN. In addition, the VP expression did not depend upon acute immobilization stress. These data highlight differences in the neuroendocrine regulatory mechanisms of the stress response involving CRH/CCK or VP. They also underline that adaptative physiological mechanisms to stress might vary from one mammal species to another.
The single-prolonged stress paradigm alters both the morphology and stress response of magnocellular vasopressin neurons.	Vasopressin (AVP) plays an important role in anxiety-related and social behaviors. Single-prolonged stress (SPS) has been established as an animal acute severe stress model and has been shown to induce a lower adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) response upon cortisol challenge. Here, we show results from immunoassays for AVP, ACTH, and corticosterone (CORT), and in situ hybridizations for AVP mRNA performed 7 days after SPS exposure. Immunofluorescence for AVP was also performed during the 7-day period following SPS exposure and after an additional forced swimming stress paradigm. We observed that the plasma concentrations of AVP, ACTH, and CORT were not altered by SPS; ACTH content in the pituitary and AVP mRNA expression in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) were significantly reduced by SPS. During the 7-day period following SPS, the intensity of immunoreactivity, the size of the soma, and the immunoreactive optical density of the dendrites of AVP neurons in the SON all increased. An apparent reduction in the intensity of AVP immunoreactivity was observed in the SON at 4 h after additional stress. Additional forced swimming led to a rapid increase in the dendritic AVP content only in the controls and not in the SPS-treated rats. These findings suggest that AVP is a potential biomarker for past exposure to severe stress and that alterations in AVP may affect the development of pathogenesis in stress-related disorders.
A simple method for coupling in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry: application to the study of peptidergic neurons.	We have devised a simple procedure for immunostaining of sections that have previously undergone autoradiographic visualization of mRNAs by in situ hybridization. Classical hybridocytochemistry techniques were performed first on cryostat sections of formaldehyde-fixed tissue. Standard methods were used for slide coating by emulsion dipping and for revelation, fixation, and coverslipping steps. The key to this method is the emulsion removal, or permeabilization, by a short trypsin incubation (0.2% for 20-30 sec) which facilitates the good access of antibodies used in a subsequent immunocytochemical technique to section epitopes. Usual immunofluorescence and immunoperoxidase procedures were successfully performed after this treatment. The immunoreactivity of several neuropeptides was well preserved after this procedure. In addition to its usefulness in our studies, this general method should be applicable to many other situations in which autoradiographic and immunocytochemical detections must be coupled.
Apelin and vasopressin: two work better than one.	Water retention in the kidney is known to be an active phenomenon, controlled by a neuropeptide: vasopressin. Water excretion was assumed to be a passive phenomenon, as a result of vasopressin release blockade. This simplistic view is incorrect because water excretion is also controlled by a diuretic neuropeptide, apelin, produced not only by several peripheral tissues, but also by hypothalamic neurones, in particular the vasopressin ones projecting to the posterior pituitary.
Presence of oxytocin, vasopressin and atrial natriuretic peptide and their modification in rat hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus during resistance training.	Many studies have demonstrated the physiological effects of oxytocin (OT), atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and vasopressin (VP) in the homoeostasis of body fluids during physical exercise. However, a little information is available about the related immunohistochemical changes in hypothalamic magnocellular neurosecretory system during and after the training. The aim of the present work was to study the immunohistochemical changes in OT, ANP and VP levels in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus during and after resistance exercise protocol. Three groups of Wistar rats were trained by a rung ladder protocol for 15, 30 and 45 days, respectively; a fourth group was left to rest for 15 days after the training. Finally, four sedentary groups were used as controls. The results show that resistance training induces a significant reduction in the percentage of OT-positive neurons, compared with sedentary controls. In contrast, this protocol did not induce any change in VP levels, and ANP levels did not change significantly. However, VP increased after the resting period of 15 days. Our work shows that neurons of the paraventricular nucleus are involved in body fluid homoeostasis during and after resistance exercise. The functional significance of these changes in OT and VP levels, during and after the protocol, needs to be further investigated.
Identification and expression of two oxytocin/vasopressin-related peptides in the cuttlefish Sepia officinalis.	Two novel members of the oxytocin/vasopressin superfamily have been identified in the cephalopod Sepia officinalis. Oxytocin/vasopressin gene sequences were cloned by Race PCR. The two precursors we identified exhibit the classical organization of OT/VP superfamily precursors: a signal peptide followed by a nonapeptide and a neurophysin domain. The neurophysin domain is entirely conserved for the cuttlefish precursors, but the nonapeptides and the signal peptides differ. The first nonapeptide, called sepiatocin, is highly homologous to Octopus vulgaris octopressin. The second nonapeptide, called pro-sepiatocin, shows sequence homologies with a Crustacean oxytocin/vasopressin-like peptide identified in Daphnia culex and with a novel form of oxytocin described in New World monkeys. The expression of pro-sepiatocin is restricted to the supraesophageal and subesophageal masses of the brain whereas sepiatocin is expressed in the entire central nervous system. Sepiatocin, as described for octopressin, modulates the contractile activity of several muscles such as penis, oviduct and vena cava muscles; this suggests its involvement in reproduction and blood circulation. Pro-sepiatocin is released in the hemolymph; it is a neurohormone able to target numerous peripheral organs. 
Late onset of familial neurogenic diabetes insipidus in monozygotic twins.	Autosomal dominant familial diabetes insipidus (FNDI) is a rare disease characterized by polydipsia and polyuria due to deficiency of the antidiuretic hormone, arginine vasopressin (AVP). We report the first Slovak family with the disease. Noteworthy is the concordantly belated debut of the disease symptoms in two monozygotic twin proband girls in the age of 17 years. Because of inconclusive results of water deprivation test consistent with partial diabetes insipidus (DI), missing "bright spot" of posterior pituitary gland in T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and family occurrence of polyuria and polydipsia on anamnestic evaluation.
A study of non-isotopic in situ hybridization histochemistry on postmortem changes in vasopressin mRNA in rat brain.	Rat models which stimulated various postmortem conditions were used to determine postmortem changes in the vasopressin mRNA content of the brain. In situ hybridization histochemistry experiments using biotinylated oligonucleotide probes revealed that vasopressin mRNA could be detected in the rat hypothalamic nuclei, even though the rats had been killed and left for 8 h postmortem at room temperature and the brains were then fixed by immersion in 4% paraformaldehyde instead of by transcardial perfusion. However, these signals were greatly reduced in the nuclei if the brains were removed after a 24-h delay. These results suggest that gene expression study of neuropeptides at the cellular level can be performed on postmortem human brains after a short postmortem delay.
Sex differences in vasopressin neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis by in situ hybridization.	To determine whether a sex difference exists in the biosynthetic capacity of vasopressingergic (AVP) neurons in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST), we have used in situ hybridization and quantitative autoradiography to measure propressophysin messenger RNA levels in these cells from adult male and female rats. We have found that significantly more (p less than 0.01) neurons are labeled in male rats than in female rats and that these labeled cells averaged more grains/cell (p less than 0.05) in males than in females. Therefore, the sexual dimorphism of AVP pathways in the BNST and lateral septum recently shown by immunohistochemistry results from a sex difference in the biosynthetic capacity of these AVP neurons.
Localization of vasopressin-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, peptide histidine isoleucine- and somatostatin-mRNA in rat suprachiasmatic nucleus.	Messenger RNAs (mRNA) coding for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP), peptide histidine isoleucine (PHI), somatostatin and vasopressin were localized in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the rat hypothalamus using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Specific mRNA coding for each of these peptides was distributed in areas coextensive with the immunohistochemical localization of the appropriate peptide. The autoradiographic signal produced with probes to VIP and PHI created dense concentrations of silver grains over neuronal perikarya in the ventrolateral SCN, and the coextensive distribution of both VIP- and PHI-mRNAs suggests that both peptides are synthesized within the same neurons. The distribution of somatostatin-mRNA was distinct from the of VIP and PHI. Labeled neurons are observed at the interface of the two SCN subdivisions and the distribution of these neurons is identical to those shown to contain somatostatin immunoreactivity. Vasopressin-mRNA is also differentially concentrated within neurons in the dorsomedial subdivision of the SCN in an area that is coextensive with vasopressin-immunoreactive perikarya. The discrete pattern of hybridization for each of these mRNAs indicates that each of these peptides are synthesized in SCN neurons and reaffirms the differential distribution of each of these chemically defined cell populations within cytoarchitecturally distinct subdivisions of the nucleus.
Provasopressin-neurophysin II processing is cell-specific in heterologous cell lines expressing a metallothionein-vasopressin fusion gene.	Preprovasopressin-neurophysin II (prepro-AVP-Np), the precursor of the cyclic, amidated nonapeptide, arginine vasopressin (AVP), is present in the central and peripheral nervous systems, adrenal glands, and gonads of rats. To study cell-specific processing of prepro-AVP-Np, a fusion gene consisting of the heavy metal-inducible promoter of the mouse metallothionein I gene and the rat prepro-AVP-Np gene was introduced by cellular transfection into several defined cell phenotypes: a fibroblast line (BHK), a pituitary growth hormone and prolactin-producing cell line (GH4), a pituitary cell line that produces several amidated peptides (AtT-20), and an insulin-producing pancreatic islet line (RIN- 1046-38). Clonal cell lines were isolated and prepro-AVP-Np-specific transcripts were detected by Northern blot hybridization analyses. Fibroblast BHK and pituitary GH4 cells transfected with the fusion gene synthesized a polypeptide (Mr = 18,000) characteristic of the glycosylated precursor, pro-AVP-Np; in metal -treated cells, this protein was the major secreted cysteine-labeled polypeptide. Extracts of RIN-1046-38 and AtT-20 cells transfected with the fusion gene contained predominantly processed neurophysin and amidated arginine vasopressin, whereas extracts of BHK and GH4 cells contained mainly precursors of AVP and neurophysin. These observations indicate that the pathways involving specific post-translational processing of pro-AVP-Np are more efficiently utilized in the prohormone-producing AtT-20 and RIN-1046-38 cells than in GH4 and BHK cells that do not synthesize any recognized prohormones.
Vasopressin gene transcripts in the bovine corpus luteum are defective.	cDNA clones corresponding to vasopressin gene transcripts were isolated from a lambda gt11 library made using mRNA extracted from a bovine corpus luteum of the early non-pregnant cycle. None of the characterized clones included the vasopressin-encoding exon A sequence, instead two of these clones included sequence from the first intron. Together these data and controls indicate that vasopressin gene transcription in this tissue does not yield translatable mRNA and that positive RNA-DNA hybridization signals are not necessarily evidence for local biosynthesis of the neuropeptide.
Regulation of vasopressin gene expression in rat hypothalamic neurons. Response to osmotic stimulation.	Although the steps involved in biosynthesis and secretion of the neuropeptide vasopressin (AVP) have been extensively studied, the factors which regulate AVP gene expression remain unknown. Therefore, we sought to determine the dynamics of AVP mRNA accumulation in response to a strong stimulus for AVP release, i.e. during salt imbibition and the ensuing period of rehydration. AVP mRNA levels were determined in terms of absolute amounts by a novel quantitative densitometric hybridization assay, using in vitro synthesized sense-strand RNA as a quantitative standard and complementary anti-sense RNA as a specific probe. The template used for RNA transcription consisted of a 196-base pair genomic DNA fragment corresponding to exon C of the rat AVP gene. Determination of basal hypothalamic AVP mRNA levels yielded 12.5 +/- 2.7 fmol/hypothalamus. Salt imbibition, which induced a 6% rise in blood osmolality and an 82% loss of pituitary AVP, resulted in a 3-fold increase of AVP mRNA to 35 +/- 5 fmol/hypothalamus. Following rehydration, plasma osmolality returned to control levels by day 2, pituitary AVP by day 6, and hypothalamic AVP by day 14. By contrast, AVP mRNA levels remained significantly elevated throughout the 30-day rehydration period. Furthermore, pituitary AVP reached a level of 177% of control by day 14 of rehydration. These data show that osmotic stimulation results in a long-lasting elevation of hypothalamic AVP mRNA; during rehydration, these elevated mRNA levels direct AVP biosynthesis at a rate which surpasses secretory demands; AVP mRNA accumulation does not appear to be directly regulated by either pituitary or hypothalamic AVP. Therefore, either an unusually long half-life of greater than or equal to 7 days must be assumed for AVP mRNA or, alternatively, a continued stimulation of AVP gene transcription must occur, even in the absence of a secretory stimulus and following complete repletion of cellular AVP stores.
Bovine oxytocin transgenes in mice. Hypothalamic expression, physiological regulation, and interactions with the vasopressin gene.	To gain insights into the molecular mechanisms that restrict the expression of the oxytocin gene to anatomically defined groups of neurons in the hypothalamus, we generated transgenic mice bearing bovine oxytocin genomic fragments. Appropriate neuron-specific and physiological regulation was observed in mice bearing transgene bOT3.5, which consists of the oxytocin structural gene flanked by 0.6 kilobase pair (kbp) of upstream and 1.9 kbp of downstream sequences. bOT3.5 is expressed in oxytocin magnocellular neurons in the mouse supraoptic nucleus and paraventricular nucleus, but transgene RNAs are excluded from vasopressin neurons. Replacement of the drinking diet of the transgenic mice with 2% (w/v) NaCl for 7 days significantly increased the abundance of bovine oxytocin transcripts in the supraoptic nucleus, but not in the paraventricular nucleus, in parallel with the endogenous mouse oxytocin RNA. Surprisingly, mimicry of the endogenous oxytocin gene expression pattern was lost with larger transgenes. Addition of 0.7 kbp of contiguous downstream sequences (transgene bOT) or linkage to the bovine vasopressin gene (transgene VP-B/bOT3.5) repressed hypothalamic expression. No mice were derived bearing transgene bOT6.4, which consists of the oxytocin structural gene flanked by 3 kbp of upstream and 2.6 kbp of downstream sequences, suggesting that the presence of this DNA is detrimental to normal embryonic development. These data suggest that while bOT3.5 contains sufficient cis-acting sequences to mediate expression to particular subsets of hypothalamic neurons, the overall regulation of the oxytocin gene is governed by multiple interacting enhancers and repressors.
Monoamine influence on neuropeptide gene expression during ontogenesis.	The present study aimed to check the hypothesis concerning the monoamine regulation of the differentiation of their target neurons during ontogenesis. For this aim, neuropeptide gene expression has been evaluated by in situ hybridization in targets for monoamines, differentiating peptidergic neurons, after monoamine depletion in rats during prenatal or early postnatal periods. In the first series of experiments, the vasopressin (VP) and oxytocin (OT) mRNA concentrations were measured in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) of rat fetuses at the 21st embryonic day (E21) following daily (E13-E20) treatment with the inhibitor of the catecholamine (CA) synthesis, alpha-methyl-m(p)-tyrosine. Similar study was performed with rats at the 11th postnatal day (P11) after daily (P2-P10) treatment with alpha-methyl-m-tyrosine and the neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine. In the second series of experiments, the effect of serotonin (5-HT) depletion by the inhibitor of the 5-HT synthesis, p-chlorophenylalanine, on the vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) mRNA level in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) has been studied in fetuses and in neonates as described above. No changes were detected in the VP and OT mRNA concentration in the SON following CA depletion in fetuses, while similar treatment of neonates significantly increased both mRNA levels. On the contrary, the 5-HT depletion caused an increased VIP mRNA concentration in the SCN in fetuses but not in neonates. Thus, our data suggest a monoamine inhibitory influence on peptide gene expression in the differentiating target neurons during certain periods of ontogenesis.
Mapping of the gene for antidiuretic hormone in Rattus norvegicus]	The gene for rat antidiuretic hormone was cytologically mapped using in situ hybridization. The gene was localized to chromosome 3, in region 3q41-q42.
The diurnal expression of genes encoding vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal peptide within the rat suprachiasmatic nucleus is influenced by circulating glucocorticoids.	The mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is the endogenous pacemaker generating the diurnal rhythm of the stress hormones ACTH and glucocorticoid secretion. In the present study, we have employed male rats entrained to a 12:12 h (light:dark) photoperiod to investigate the effects of chronic and acute administration of exogenous glucocorticoids upon the diurnal expression of vasopressin and vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) mRNA in the SCN by semiquantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. Chronic administration of exogenous glucocorticoids significantly enhanced vasopressin mRNA expression only at zeitgeber time (ZT) 5, while the otherwise rhythmic expression of vasopressin mRNA was unaffected at ZT11, ZT17 and ZT23. In contrast, the same treatment abolished the rhythmic expression of VIP mRNA resulting in constantly elevated mRNA levels. In adrenalectomized rats given an overnight supplement of dexamethasone in their drinking water, the expression of both vasopressin and VIP mRNA in the SCN was elevated the following morning at ZT6 when compared to adrenalectomised rats kept on 0.9% saline. These results suggest that glucocorticoids influence the expression of vasopressin during a narrow window of time in the diurnal cycle coinciding with the time where entrainment of the circadian pacemaker with non-photic cues is possible. Constantly elevated levels of glucocorticoids may also interfere with the suprachiasmatic expression of VIP mRNA which is thought to be driven by photic cues.
Proto-oncogene c-fos and the regulation of vasopressin gene expression during dehydration.	Secretion of the antidiuretic hormone (ADH) vasopressin is increased when body fluid homeostasis is disturbed by dehydration. Associated with this increased secretion is an elevation of vasopressin mRNA in magnocellular hypothalamic neurons projecting to the posterior pituitary. The proto-oncogene c-fos codes for a nuclear phospho-protein Fos which binds to specific DNA elements and acts as a transcriptional regulator coupling short-term extracellular stimuli to long-term responses by altering secondary target gene expression. This study in rats examined the time courses of dehydration induced c-fos expression and the change of vasopressin gene expression in the magnocellular neurons of the hypothalamus. Immunocytochemical and in situ hybridization study demonstrated that c-fos was induced by acute intracellular dehydration in the hypothalamic magnocellular nuclei of paraventricular (PVN), supraoptic (SON), and accessory groups such as nucleus circularis. Double-label immunocytochemical study co-localized Fos and vasopressin-neurophysin immunoreactivity in the same magnocellular neurons in the SON and PVN. In situ hybridization analysis after acute dehydration revealed a rapid and transient c-fos induction followed by a persistent increase in vasopressin mRNA for up to 2 days even after rehydration. Furthermore, prevention of c-fos translation by pretreatment with protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide attenuated this dehydration induced increase in vasopressin mRNA. This study demonstrated that an increase in vasopressin transcription after acute dehydration is dependent on an early phase of protein synthesis.
A rapid and sensitive radioimmunohistochemical assay for quantitation of vasopressin in discrete brain regions with an anatomical resolution.	Radioimmunoassay has become a widely used method to study different neuroactive substances from brain tissue extracts, but cannot provide anatomical resolution. Here we describe a simple and sensitive radioimmunohistochemical assay (RIHA) to quantify a peptide, vasopressin (VP), in discrete brain regions of rats with 3-day water deprivation. After decapitation, brains were removed, frozen with dry ice and cut into 14-microns cryostat sections which were then fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde in phosphate-buffered saline. After rinses, tissue sections were stored in a freezer until use. For RIHA, brain tissue sections were pre-incubated, and then incubated with rabbit vasopressin antibody (1:2000 dilution) for 24 h at room temperature. After rinses, sections were incubated with 125I-labeled goat antirabbit IgG (1:200 dilution) for 1 h. Specimens were processed for quantitative autoradiography after rinses and drying. RIHA with aid of a computer-assisted image analysis system revealed that the VP content was significantly reduced in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN) and supraoptic nucleus (SON) of rats with 3-day water deprivation, whereas a parallel in situ hybridization study further demonstrated that VP mRNAs in the PVN and SON were greatly increased. In summary, this experiment demonstrates that RIHA is a simple and powerful tool which is able to detect changes of VP in the hypothalamus of dehydrated rats. Combining this method with in situ hybridization to assess mRNA expression allows assessment of the functional significance of the peptide changes. In this case, dehydration depletes vasopressin and upregulates its synthesis. Therefore, the combined use of RIHA and in situ hybridization should have general applicability to evaluate the functional role of a peptide or neurotransmitter system in response to stimuli in a quantitative way with anatomical resolution.
Expression of vasopressin mRNA in extrahypothalamic nuclei of the homozygous Brattleboro rat is not modulated by testosterone.	Previous studies from this and other laboratories have shown that levels of vasopressin (VP) mRNA are reduced in both hypothalamic magnocellular and extrahypothalamic nuclei of the homozygous Brattleboro rat (HOM) when compared to the normal Long-Evans (LE) and heterozygous Brattleboro rats (HET). Since extrahypothalamic VP gene expression is dependent on testosterone (T), we measured plasma T in HOM, HET and LE rats. The plasma T level of the intact HOM rat was not significantly different from intact LE or HET rats. Manipulation of circulating gonadal steroids by castration and T replacement was found to regulate the expression of VP mRNA in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and medial amygdala of LE and HET rats, but does not appear to modify the absence of VP mRNA in neurons in these nuclei in the HOM rat.
Local implants of testosterone metabolites regulate vasopressin mRNA in sexually dimorphic nuclei of the rat brain.	Biosynthesis of the neuropeptide vasopressin (VP) in extrahypothalamic neurons is dependent on circulating levels of testosterone (T). However, the mechanism by which endogenous or peripherally administered T induces VP gene expression in the brain has not been established. This study investigated the effects of androgens and estrogen in the steroid-dependent expression of VP mRNA in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST). Testosterone, estrogen, and the T metabolite, dihydrotestosterone (DHT), were either peripherally administered or locally implanted in cannula into the BNST of castrated male rats to determine whether these steroids influence VP gene expression through a local effect within the nucleus itself. The results indicate that T does act locally within the BNST, since complete restoration of VP mRNA levels occurred in BNST neurons in the vicinity of T-containing cannulas but not on the contralateral side. In addition, both DHT and estrogen were partially effective in stimulating VP gene expression in the BNST, and in combination, synergized to produce the full complement of VP gene expression induced by T itself.
Vasopressin and oxytocin production by non-neuroendocrine lung carcinomas: an apparent low incidence of gene expression.	In previous studies we have demonstrated the high incidence of vasopressin gene expression as a characteristic feature of small-cell carcinoma of the lung. In the present study we examined expression of this gene in non-neuroendocrine tumors to determine if vasopressin production is a common feature of all lung tumors. We carried out the immunohistochemical evaluation of 22 non-neuroendocrine tumors (12 adenocarcinomas and 10 squamous-cell carcinomas) with antibodies to vasopressin, to oxytocin, and to their related neurophysins. The antibody preparations directed against vasopressin, oxytocin, or oxytocin-associated human neurophysin did not react with any of the tumors examined. Of two monoclonal antibodies to vasopressin-associated human neurophysin used, one did not react with any of the tumors, while the other stained neoplastic cells in only one adenocarcinoma and one squamous-cell carcinoma. These findings, taken with previous reports, indicate that among lung carcinomas, a high incidence of vasopressin/oxytocin gene expression is confined to neuroendocrine tumors.
Vasopressin processing defects in the Brattleboro rat: implications for hereditary central diabetes insipidus in humans?	The arginine vasopressin (AVP) precursor gene of mammals contains three exons encoding the principal domains of the polyprotein precursor, including vasopressin (exon A), neurophysin (exon B), and glycopeptide (exon C). The AVP precursor (preprohormone) is processed and transported through the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), Golgi apparatus, and secretory vesicles, and finally, mature AVP is secreted from the posterior pituitary into the circulation. The exact steps of these processes during AVP translation and posttranslation events are not yet well elucidated. Defects in peptide processing are associated with several genetic disorders, including central diabetes insipidus (CDI). In the Brattleboro rat with CDI, the mRNA and protein of AVP are present in the hypothalamus, but no circulating AVP is detectable, thus suggesting a processing defect, transport defect, or both. The mutated AVP gene precursor of Brattleboro rat has a deletion of a single base, guanine, in the neurophysin coding region that leads to a frameshift resulting in the loss of the normal stop codon. It has been reported that the mutated precursor is trapped in the ER and does not reach the Golgi apparatus. Recent studies examined AVP secretion in cultured COS cells transfected with various constructs from wild-type and mutated Brattleboro AVP gene precursors. The wild-type in vitro studies demonstrated that intact neurophysin, but not the glycoprotein coding region, is necessary for normal AVP processing and secretion. Next, the results demonstrated that the guanine defect in the neurophysin coding region and the prolonged C-terminus accounted for the processing defect in the Brattleboro rat with CDI. These defects no doubt impair the folding and configuration necessary for normal processing of the AVP gene precursor in the ER. In hereditary CDI in humans, the majority of the mutations have also been shown to occur in the neurophysin coding region. However, in contrast to the recessive defect in the Brattleboro rat, in human CDI, neurotoxicity and denigration of the magnocellular neurons have been observed, and dominant inheritance occurs. Moreover, all mutations are missense, nonsense, or deletions in human CDI rather than the shift in reading frame and preserved neurons that is observed with the Brattleboro rat. Thus, the results from studies in the Brattleboro rat may only be partially applicable to hereditary CDI in humans.
Expression of mRNAs for vasopressin, oxytocin and corticotrophin releasing hormone in the hypothalamus, and of cyclooxygenases-1 and -2 in the cerebral vasculature, of endotoxin-challenged pigs.	Neuropeptide and cyclooxygenase (Cox) gene expression was examined in the brains of catheterized pigs killed 30 or 120 min after intravenous injection of a low (20 microg) dose of lipopolysaccharide endotoxin (LPS), previously demonstrated to induce fever in this species. In the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus (PVN), corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA was shown to be present in the pars parvocellularis but was not upregulated 30 or 120 min after 20 microg LPS, or 90 min after 60 microg LPS; there was also no change in proopiomelanocortin (POMC) message in the anterior pituitary (AP). Similarly, expression of mRNAs for lysine vasopressin (LVP) or oxytocin (OT) did not change in the PVN after LPS (20 microg), although LVP message was increased (p<0.05) at 30 min in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus (SON). Expression of Cox-1 and Cox-2 genes was quantified in the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT) and choroid plexus (CP) in an attempt to determine whether altered expression of prostaglandin (PG) synthetic enzymes in brain vasculature is involved in LPS fever. Although vascular endothelial cells in both structures expressed Cox-1 and Cox-2 mRNAs, neither increased in the OVLT following LPS. However, in the CP, Cox-1 mRNA was enhanced (p<0.05) at 30 and 120 min after LPS injection and Cox-2 showed a similar (NS) change. These results provide the first description of CRH and Cox gene expression in the porcine brain. They also suggest that LPS may influence the activity of genes controlling LVP synthesis in the hypothalamus and PG production by the brain vasculature.
Role of non-NMDA receptors in osmotic and glutamate stimulation of vasopressin release: effect of rapid receptor desensitization.	Previous studies demonstrated that the increase in vasopressin (VP) release and induction of VPmRNA content by osmotic stimulation was blocked by kynurenic acid, a non-specific antagonist of excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors. In order to identify the type of EAA receptor involved, perifused explants of the hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system (HNS) were exposed to a ramp increase in osmolality (40 mOsm over 6 h achieved by increasing NaCl) in the presence and absence of 10 microM 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX), an antagonist of non-n-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) excitatory amino acid receptors. Vasopressin release and VP mRNA content were significantly increased by exposure to the osmotic stimulus. 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione inhibited osmotically stimulated VP release (F=16.65, P=0.0008) without significantly reducing basal release. It also prevented the osmotically stimulated increase in VP mRNA content (P <0.05). Although these results implicated glutamate, the primary endogenous ligand for EAA receptors, in the regulation of VP, exogenous glutamate was ineffective in stimulating VP release from HNS explants in either low-Mg2+ or Mg2+-replete medium. However, blockade of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor desensitization with cyclothiazide (100 microM) caused a marked increase in VP release in response to 100 microM glutamate, and blockade of kainate receptor desensitization with concanavalin A resulted in a small, but significant increase in VP release in response to 1 mM glutamate. These results support a role for non-NMDA receptor activation in osmotic regulation of VP release.
Comparative methylation analysis of murine transgenes that undergo or escape X-chromosome inactivation.	We analyzed an X-linked metallothionein-vasopressin (MTVP) fusion transgene that undergoes X-chromosome inactivation (X inactivation) and an X-linked transferrin (TFN) transgene that escapes X inactivation with respect to methylation in the 5' regulatory regions. The MTVP transgene promoter region is unmethylated when the transgene is on the active X chromosome and methylated when on the inactive X chromosome. Interestingly, the MTVP transgene is not detectably transcribed from the male X chromosome, although it is unmethylated, consistent with its availability for transcription. The TFN transgene promoter region is hypomethylated on both the active and inactive X chromosomes, consistent with its expression from both chromosomes. The TFN and MTVP transgenes have been mapped to chromosomal regions D and C, respectively, by fluorescence in situ hybridization. These observations are discussed in the context of our understanding of the role of DNA methylation in the spread and maintenance of X-chromosome inactivation.
