Vasopressor agents for cardiopulmonary resuscitation.	The primary goal of cardiopulmonary resuscitation is to reestablish blood flow to vital organs until spontaneous circulation is restored. Adrenergic vasopressor agents produce systemic vasoconstriction. This increases aortic diastolic pressure, and consequently, coronary and cerebral perfusion pressures. The pharmacologic responses to the adrenergic agents are mediated by a group of receptors that are classified as alpha (alpha), including alpha1 and alpha2, and beta (beta), including beta1 and beta2. Epinephrine, which has each of these adrenergic actions, has been the preferred adrenergic agent for the management of cardiac arrest for almost 40 years. Its primary efficacy is due to its alpha-adrenergic vasopressor effects. This contrasts with its beta-adrenergic actions, which are inotropic, chronotropic, and vasodilator. Accordingly, beta-adrenergic actions prompt increases in myocardial oxygen consumption, ectopic ventricular arrhythmias, and transient hypoxemia due to pulmonary arteriovenous shunting. This may account for the failure to demonstrate that epinephrine improves ultimate outcomes in human victims of cardiac arrest. Major interest has more recently been focused on selective alpha-adrenergic agonists. Both alpha1-agonists and alpha2-agonists are peripheral vasopressors. However, rapid desensitization of alpha1-adrenergic receptors occurs during cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Moreover, alpha1-adrenergic receptors are present in the myocardium, and beta1-agonists, like beta-adrenergic agonists, increase myocardial oxygen consumption. If they cross the blood-brain barrier, alpha2-adrenoceptor agonists also have centrally acting vasodilator effects. In the absence of central nervous system access, alpha2-adrenergic agonists have selective peripheral vasoconstrictor effects. Under experimental conditions of cardiopulmonary resuscitation, selective alpha2-agonists, which do not gain entrance into the brain, produce only systemic vasoconstriction. Experimentally, these selective alpha2-agonists are as effective as epinephrine for initial cardiac resuscitation and have the additional advantage of minimizing myocardial oxygen consumption during the global myocardial ischemia of cardiac arrest. Accordingly, myocardial ischemic injury during cardiopulmonary resuscitation is minimized, and postresuscitation myocardial function is preserved with improved survival.
New additions to the intensive care armamentarium.	Many advances have improved the care of critically ill patients, but only a few have been through the use of pharmaceutical agents. Recently, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved drotrecogin alfa (activated), or recombinant human activated protein C, for the treatment of patients with a high risk of death from severe sepsis. Drotrecogin alfa (activated) has antiinflammatory, antithrombotic and fibrinolytic properties. When given as a continuous intravenous infusion, recombinant human activated protein C decreases absolute mortality of severely septic patients by 6.1%, resulting in a 19.4% relative reduction in mortality. The absolute reduction in mortality increases to 13% if the population treated is restricted to patients with an APACHE II score greater than 24, as suggested by the FDA. The most frequent and serious side effect is bleeding. Severe bleeds increased from 2% in patients given placebo to 3.5% in patients receiving drotrecogin alfa (activated). The risk of bleeding was only increased during the actual infusion time of the drug, and the bleeding risk returned to placebo levels 24 hours after the infusion was discontinued. Patients treated in the intensive care unit frequently develop anemia, usually severe enough to require at least one transfusion of red blood cells. With the recent discovery of the harmful effects of allogeneic red blood cell transfusions and the increasing shortage of available red blood cell products, emphasis has been placed on minimizing transfusions. Patients who receive exogenous recombinant human erythropoietin maintain higher hemoglobin levels, in spite of requiring fewer transfusions during their stay in the intensive care unit. Recombinant human erythropoietin appears to be effective whether it is given as 300 units/kg of body weight subcutaneously every other day or as 40,000 units subcutaneously every week. Differences in hemoglobin values were not apparent until at least one week of therapy, but they continued to diverge after that initial week. Furthermore, the incidence of adverse events was similar to that of patients receiving placebo and there was no difference in mortality, suggesting that avoidance of blood transfusions did not translate into increased survival. Thus, recombinant human erythropoietin appears to be both safe and effective in treating the anemia found in critically ill patients, but it is less clear that such treatment is cost effective, especially in the higher dose regimens. Hypotension in patients with septic shock is often difficult to correct. Despite enormous dosages of catecholamines, many of these patients continue to have inadequate blood pressures. Inadequate levels of vasopressin have been identified in patients with septic shock, as well as in other patients with hypotension secondary to refractory vasodilatation. Vasopressin is a peptide hormone secreted from the posterior pituitary in response to hyperosmolality, hypovolemia or hypotension. Levels of vasopressin initially rise in patients with septic shock, but as hypotension persists, vasopressin levels fall below normal. Administration of exogenous vasopressin in physiologic dosages significantly increases blood pressure in patients with shock associated with sepsis and other vasodilatory states. This rise in blood pressure is often significant enough that endogenous catecholamines can be decreased and frequently discontinued entirely. Early withdrawal of the vasopressin replacement infusion results in recurrent hypotension. Unfortunately, randomized, blinded, placebo-controlled trials showing improvement in long-term outcomes such as mortality and length of stay are still lacking.
Hepatorenal syndrome: pathogenesis and novel pharmacological targets.	Hepatorenal syndrome is functional, reversible renal failure that occurs in patients with advanced liver cirrhosis or acute hepatic failure. The fundamental problem in hepatorenal syndrome is renal ischemia secondary to hypotension and profound renal cortical vasoconstriction. Sinusoidal hypertension and its associated splanchnic arterial vasodilatation initiate a cascade of events leading to activation of systemic and local vasoconstrictors and depletion of local renal vasodilators. Therapy with vasopressin V(1) receptor and alpha-adrenergic agonists, and plasma expanders, reverses type I and type II hepatorenal syndrome and improves survival. Large randomized, controlled, multicenter trials are needed to determine which drug is most effective, as well as the optimal dose and duration of treatment.
Somatostatin, somatostatin analogues and other vasoactive drugs in the treatment of bleeding oesophageal varices.	Somatostatin and its analogues have been compared with a variety of other treatments for the treatment of variceal bleeding in cirrhotic patients. Meta-analyses of studies comparing somatostatin or octreotide with vasopressin or terlipressin have shown that somatostatin is somewhat superior to vasopressin and equivalent to terlipressin in controlling bleeding and has significantly fewer side effects; no difference in mortality was observed. Octreotide was somewhat better than vasopressin and terlipressin in controlling bleeding, with similar mortality. Meta-analysis of trials comparing somatostatin or octreotide with endoscopic sclerotherapy shows that both drugs are equivalent to sclerotherapy for bleeding control, early rebleeding and survival. Complications are much less frequent with drug treatment. Nine trials have compared endoscopic therapy with therapeutic regimens combining endoscopic treatment with somatostatin, octreotide or vapreotide. Meta-analysis show that the combined regimens increase the 5 days bleeding control rate of endoscopic treatments by over 20%, although there is no difference in mortality. Comparisons of somatostatin and octreotide with combined regimens of sclerotherapy + somatostatin and sclerotherapy + octreotide have shown that the combined regimens were better than drug treatments alone in controlling bleeding and preventing early rebleeding, while complications were significantly less frequent with drug therapy.
Changes in the management of cardiac arrest]	NEW RECOMMENDATIONS: for cardio-pulmonary resuscitation Methods such as mouth to mouth or the search for a pulse, until now the fundamental preliminaries, have now become second line. Everything must be organised to allow for defibrillation as rapidly as possible. NEW MODALITIES FOR CARDIAC MASSAGE: The frequency of compressions recommended is currently 100 per minute in the adult with a rhythm of compression-ventilation reaching 15/2 before intubation. Concerning the haemodynamic agents for cardiac arrest, the efficacy of high doses of adrenalin is not greater than with conventional doses. Vasopressin is not superior to intravenous adrenalin regarding survival at 24 hrs exepet in case of asystoly. Dopamine at a "renal" dose is no longer used. ANTIARRYTHMICS: Amiodarone is part of the decisional tree in the case of ventricular fibrillation or ventricular tachycardia without a pulse. Semi-automatic defibrillator accessibility should be generalized. INFUSED SOLUTIONS: Sodium bicarbonate does not improve the survival except in particular cases. Physiological serum should be preferred to glucosed serum during reanimation.
Congenital nasal pyriform aperture stenosis with semilobar holoprosencephaly.	We describe a child who has congenital nasal pyriform aperture stenosis with single maxillary central incisor, holoprosencephaly and central diabetes insipidus without any apparent anterior pituitary dysfunction. Conservative management of the congenital nasal pyriform aperture stenosis is adopted and management of diabetes insipidus is described. A literature review is undertaken.
Vasopressin for cardiac arrest: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	The current guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation recommend vasopressin as an alternative to epinephrine for the treatment of adult shock-refractory ventricular fibrillation. The objective of this study was to determine the effectiveness of vasopressin in the treatment of cardiac arrest.
"Highlights" in emergency medicine -- severe head trauma, polytrauma and cardiac arrest]	According to scientific publications focusing on emergency medicine and published in international journals in the past few months, new and clinically important results can be identified. In patients with severe head trauma (SHT), application of hypertonic solutions is possible; long term outcome, however, is not improved by this measure. Prehospital capnometry is important, because otherwise up to 40 % of all mechanically ventilated patients are hypoventilated. In a study in 200 patients with prehospital cardiac arrest and ventricular fibrillation as initial cardiac rhythm, subgroup analysis (alarm-response time > 5 min) showed an increase in survival rate (14 % vs. 2 %), if defibrillation was proceeded by 3 min of conventional cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) for reperfusion. If ACD ("active compression decompression")-CPR is combined with a specific ventilatory valve ("inspiratory impedance threshold device", ITD) which does not allow passive inspiration, survival rate after cardiac arrest is increased for up to 24 h. Such a device facilitates an increase in venous return to the heart during decompression of the thorax. High-dose adrenalin for intrahospital CPR in children is not associated with better survival but with worse outcome. Comparison of an emergency medical service (EMS) system from U.K. with paramedics and a physician-staffed German EMS system demonstrated that survival rate following prehospital cardiac arrest is markedly increased with doctors on board. The European multicentre trial comparing vasopressin vs. adrenalin as first vasopressor during CPR in 1219 patients did not reveal any differences between both groups. In subgroup analyses of patients with asystoly and prolonged CPR, vasopressin was superior without being associated with a benefit on neurological outcome. Further subgroup analyses revealed beneficial effects of amiodarone and thrombolysis during CPR. Thrombolysis during CPR apears to be associated with an increased rate of haemodynamic stabilisation without increased risk of bleeding complications. In a very clear advisory statement, the "International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation" (ILCOR) has recommended mild therapeutic hypothermia (i. e., cooling of cardiac arrest victims to 32 - 34 degrees C central body temperature for 12 - 24 h following cardiac arrest of cardiac etiology) not only for unconciuous patients with ventricular fibrillation as initial prehospital rhythm, but also for all other adult patients (other rhythms, intrahospital CPR) following cardiac arrest. In randomised controlled clinical trials, this therapy has markedly improved survival rate and neurological outcome. Such therapeutic cooling can be initiated nearly everywhere and with simple methods - like the infusion of ice-cold cristalloid solutions.
Novel therapies for heart failure: vasopressin and selective aldosterone antagonists.	Despite favorable improvements in mortality, heart failure (HF) remains a problematic illness due to the ever-present burden of hospitalization. Clearly, novel treatment strategies are needed. This review focuses on two newer pharmacologic targets: arginine vasopressin and aldosterone. Arginine vasopressin receptor antagonists will most likely serve as an adjunct to or replacement of standard diuretic therapy in selected patients. The safety and efficacy of chronic therapy with oral arginine vasopressin receptor antagonists in large groups of congestive HF patients is currently under investigation. Aldosterone antagonism is emerging as a treatment of severe congestive HF. Recent large-scale clinical trials using aldosterone antagonists have proven that those with HF or left ventricular dysfunction postmyocardial infarction derive a survival benefit from aldosterone antagonism. Whether aldosterone antagonism should be prescribed in all patients with HF is unclear; however, in carefully selected and managed patients, aldosterone antagonism is helpful.
Use of vasopressors in the treatment of cardiac arrest.	Intervention for cardiac arrest may require intervention for electrical abnormalities or hemodynamic instability. These actions can result in ineffective cardiac functioning and systemic hypotension. Vasopressors are capable of improving severe hypotension that can result from reduced cardiovascular contractility or heart rate. These vasopressor actions are critical to successful resuscitation efforts for patients.
Portohepatic pressures, hepatic function, and blood gases in the combination of nitroglycerin and vasopressin: search for additive effects in cirrhotic portal hypertension.	We studied the effects of the combination of nitroglycerin and vasopressin on portohepatic hemodynamics, hepatic function, and blood gases in nine patients with cirrhosis and portal hypertension. Vasopressin infusion at a dose of 0.4 U/min caused a significant fall in portal pressure, which is evaluated by portal venous pressure gradient (-34%, p less than 0.01), associated with a decrease in hepatic perfusion (-33%, p less than 0.01) and intrinsic clearance (-20%, p less than 0.01) after 30 min. The arterial oxygenation, however, was not modified (paO2; from 73 +/- 8 to 72 +/- 7 mm Hg, NS). Nitroglycerin infusion at a dose of 100 micrograms/min was then administered for 20 min. The addition of nitroglycerin produced a further reduction in free portal venous pressure (-12%, p less than 0.01), but this was not associated with a significant improvement in both hepatic perfusion (+16%, NS) and intrinsic clearance (-7%, NS). In addition, there was a significant fall in arterial oxygenation (paO2; from 72 +/- 7 to 59 +/- 5 mm Hg, p less than 0.01). We conclude that the addition of nitroglycerin to vasopressin has a beneficial effect on free portal venous pressure, but does not have hepatic benefit. Moreover, sufficient care must be taken, when treating portal hypertension with this combination, to avoid arterial hypoxemia.
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation in very low birthweight infants.	Of 191 patients with birthweight less than 1500 gm admitted to our neonatal intensive care unit in a 2-year period, 41 underwent cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Eleven of 41 very low birthweight (VLBW) (27%) survived to be discharged. None of the infants who received CPR after 72 hours of life survived. Also, all infants who underwent CPR, both in the delivery room and neonatal intensive care unit (NICU), died. The most significant factor distinguishing survivors from nonsurvivors was the demonstration of vasopressor unresponsive hypotension 20 hours prior to CPR in the latter group. This study confirmed the very poor survival rate after CPR in VLBW infants. We conclude that performance of CPR in patients with vasopressor unresponsive hypotension or previous delivery room resuscitation should be considered a rescue or experimental treatment and parents should be given the option of no resuscitation. Future research efforts should be directed to better the understanding and treatment of cardiovascular dysfunction prior to cardiac arrest.
The use of vasopressin in the setting of recalcitrant hypotension due to calcium channel blocker overdose.	Treatment of hypotension caused by calcium channel blocker overdose (CCB) remains a challenge. We describe the successful use of vasopressin in two patients with massive CCB overdoses in whom hypotension was unresponsive to calcium, glucagon, insulin, and conventional vasopressor therapies. While various modes of treatments have been used to treat the hypotension of CCB overdose, this is the first report to our knowledge of the successful use of vasopressin in this clinical setting.
Insulin versus vasopressin and epinephrine to treat beta-blocker toxicity.	We compared insulin and glucose (IN/G) to vasopressin plus epinephrine (V/E) in a pig model of beta-blocker toxicity. Primary outcome was survival over four hours.
Vasopressin pack for treatment of bleeding after myoma resection.	In 17 women with refractory bleeding after myoma resection a dilute vasopressin pack was applied. Twenty units of vasopressin was diluted with 30 ml normal saline solution. A 1-inch new gauze pack was soaked in the dilute vasopressin and packed into the uteri of patients with bleeding from the beds of resected submucous myomas. The pack was left in place for no more than an hour. In none of the cases was there bleeding after the removal of the pack nor were there any side effects that could be attributed to the vasopressin.
Modified endometrial ablation: electrocoagulation with vasopressin and suction curettage preparation.	Patient preparation and a modified operative technique are described for electrocoagulation ablation of the endometrium using a roller-bar electrode. No preoperative or postoperative endometrial suppression was used. Rather, the endometrial cavity was denuded by suction curettage just before ablation, which was performed in the early proliferative phase of the menstrual cycle. Lidocaine paracervical block containing vasopressin was injected at the start of the procedure to control pain and to minimize bleeding and irrigation fluid absorption. Pulsed irrigation of the uterus was used to improve visibility through uterine debris and the bubbles generated by the electrical current. The first 20 patients who had electrocoagulation ablation of the endometrium with these modifications were compared with the first 18 patients who had laser coagulation ablation using standard technique and preoperative endometrial suppression. Compared with the laser method, the modified coagulation method resulted in a comparable rate of satisfactory bleeding decrease at 6 months (90 versus 94%), but involved a clinically significant reduction in total anesthesia time (66.8 versus 117.3 minutes) and volume of irrigation fluid used (5.7 versus 15.9 L).
A single nucleotide polymorphism in NF-κB inducing kinase is associated with mortality in septic shock.	We tested the hypothesis that single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within genes of the NF-κB pathway are associated with altered clinical outcome of septic shock patients. We genotyped 59 SNPs in the NF-κB pathway in a discovery cohort of septic shock patients (St. Paul's Hospital [SPH], N = 589), which identified the C allele of rs7222094 T/C within MAP3K14 (NF-κB inducing kinase; NIK) associated with increased 28-d mortality (uncorrected p = 0.00024, Bonferroni corrected p = 0.014). This result was replicated in a second cohort of septic shock patients (Vasopressin and Septic Shock Trial [VASST; N = 616]) in which the CC genotype of rs7222094 was associated with increased 28-d mortality (Cox regression: SPH cohort hazard ratio [HR], 1.35; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.12-1.64; p = 0.002 Caucasian only; and VASST cohort HR, 1.24; 95% CI, 1.00-1.52; p = 0.048 Caucasian only). Patients having the CC genotype of rs7222094 in SPH experienced more renal and hematological dysfunction (p = 0.003 and p = 0.011), while patients of the VASST cohort with the rs7222094 CC genotype showed the same trend toward more renal dysfunction. In lymphoblastoid cell lines, we found the rs7222094 genotype most strongly associated with mRNA expression of CXCL10, a chemokine regulated by NF-κB. Accordingly, we measured CXCL10 protein levels and found that the CC genotype of rs7222094 was associated with significantly lower levels than those of the TT genotype in lymphoblastoid cell lines (p < 0.05) and in septic shock patients (p = 0.017). This suggests that the CC genotype of NIK rs7222094 is associated with increased mortality and organ dysfunction in septic shock patients, perhaps due to altered regulation of NF-κB pathway genes, including CXCL10.
Adrenal gland blood flow and noradrenaline plasma concentration during CPR in pigs.	In comparison to adrenaline, administration of vasopressin increases adrenal gland perfusion, but decreases catecholamine plasma concentrations when compared to saline placebo. We directly compared the effects of adrenaline with different doses of vasopressin on adrenal gland perfusion, and noradrenaline plasma concentrations during CPR.
Normal-range blood lactate concentration in septic shock is prognostic and predictive.	We hypothesized that lactate levels even within the normal range are prognostic and that low lactate levels predict a beneficial response to vasopressin infusion in septic shock. We conducted a retrospective analysis using the Vasopressin in Septic Shock Trial (VASST) as a derivation cohort (n = 665), then validated using another single-center septic shock cohort, St Paul's Hospital (SPH) cohort (n = 469). Lactate levels were divided into quartiles. The primary outcome variable was 28-day mortality in both cohorts. We used receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis to compare the prognostic value of lactate concentrations versus Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II scores. We then explored whether lactate concentrations might predict beneficial response to vasopressin compared with noradrenaline in VASST. Normal lactate range is less than 2.3 mmol/L. At enrollment, patients in the second quartile (1.4 < lactate < 2.3 mmol/L) had significantly increased mortality and organ dysfunction compared with patients who had lactate ≤ 1.4 mmol/L (quartile 1) (P < 0.0001). Quartile 2 outcomes were as severe as quartile 3 (2.3 ≤ lactate < 4.4 mmol/L) outcomes. Baseline lactate values (ar ea under the ROC curve = 0.63, 0.66; VASST, SPH) were as good as Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II scores (area under the ROC curve = 0.66, 0.73; VASST, SPH) as prognostic indicators of 28-day mortality. Lactate concentrations of 1.4 mmol/L or less predicted a beneficial response in those randomized to vasopressin compared with noradrenaline in VASST (P < 0.05). Lactate concentrations within the "normal" range can be a useful prognostic indicator in septic shock. Furthermore, patients whose lactate level is less than or equal to 1.4 mmol/L may benefit from vasopressin infusion.
Placenta accreta and the developing world--a review.	The rising Caesarean section rate in the developing world implies that the incidence of placenta accreta might be on the increase and this might worsen the maternal mortality burden.
Vasopressin compared with norepinephrine augments the decline of plasma cytokine levels in septic shock.	Changes in plasma cytokine levels may predict mortality, and therapies (vasopressin versus norepinephrine) could change plasma cytokine levels in early septic shock.
A comparison of vasopressin, terlipressin, and lactated ringers for resuscitation of uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock in an animal model.	The aim of this study is to compare the effect of lactated ringer (LR), vasopressin (Vaso) or terlipressin (Terli) on uncontrolled hemorrhagic shock (UHS) in rats.
Effect of somatostatin in controlling bleeding from esophageal varices.	A multicenter double-blind clinical trial was undertaken to evaluate the efficacy of a short-term somatostatin treatment versus a short-term vasopressin treatment on acute hemorrhage from esophageal varices in patients with liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension. Forty-nine patients with massive hemorrhage and endoscopic diagnosis of bleeding esophageal varices completed the study. Patients were randomly assigned to somatostatin treatment (24 patients: 250 micrograms/hr i.v. for 48 hrs) or vasopressin treatment (25 patients: 0.1 U/min i.v. for 48 hrs). The Sengstaken-Blakemore tube was utilized, when needed, for a six hour period. In case of failure the patients were crossed-over to the other treatment. Patients in whom the bleeding stopped at 48 hrs, were randomly assigned to somatostatin (250 micrograms/hr i.v.) or placebo for seven days. Bleeding stopped in 68% of patients treated with somatostatin and in 28% of patients treated with vasopressin (p less than 0.0013). Mortality rate was lower, but not significantly so, in the somatostatin group compared to the vasopressin group. No differences were noted between somatostatin and placebo in preventing bleeding recurrences. These data suggest that somatostatin, when combined if necessary with a 6 hour period of balloon tamponade, is more effective than vasopressin at low doses in controlling severe hemorrhage from esophageal varices in patients with liver cirrhosis and portal hypertension. A clinical use of somatostatin seems to be indicated in these patients.
Angiographic diagnosis and therapy of acute and chronic gastrointestinal hemorrhages]	In acute gastrointestinal bleeding visceral angiography has been showing its importance for years. It contributes to diagnosis especially in cases with persistent acute hemorrhage. In chronic gastrointestinal bleeding conventional radiographic procedures such as upper gastrointestinal series and barium enema will be preferred to angiography. The function of the radiologist goes beyond mere diagnosis of gastrointestinal bleeding. Treatment with vasopressin via the angiographic catheter has proven its clinical value. This method will be indicated especially in cases with high risk anesthesia and surgery. It will help to postpone necessary surgery to a more favorable moment following hemostasis. Side effects such as hypertension and antidiuresis are relatively rare and easy to manage. Numerous substances are used for embolization showing that ideal material has not been found yet and further development seems necessary. In contrast to vasopressin treatment, vascular occlusion is often irreversible, complications (unwanted reflux of embolization material, necrosis and plugging of the catheter) are more difficult to manage. Superselective visualization of a bleeding artery is always needed. Embolization is justified in cases when a possibility for anesthesia and surgery cannot be foreseen. The electrical vascular occlusion using direct current is still in the phase of animal experiments; its clinical value has not sufficiently been assessed as yet.
Small bowel hemorrhage: angiographic localization and intervention.	Occult bleeding in the small bowel was localized with mesenteric angiography in 64 patients. Two groups of patients were identified. In the first group comprising 38 patients, bleeding sites were localized by the demonstration of contrast extravasation. In the second group of 26 patients, there was no extravasation. However, other angiographic findings suggested the source of bleeding. No active bleeding was necessary for a positive study in the second group. We conclude that in patients with suspected occult small bowel hemorrhage, mesenteric angiography helps localize the bleeding site. Clinically active bleeding is not always necessary, as angiographic findings other than extravasation may localize the source of hemorrhage.
Evaluation and treatment of early hemorrhage of the alimentary tract after selective shunt procedures.	The cause and treatment of early variceal bleeding in 15 patients who had undergone distal splenorenal shunt were reviewed. Eight of these patients were taken from a group of 91 who underwent selective shunts from July 1983 through June 1985 and had extensive preoperative and postoperative evaluation of shunt patency and pressure gradient. Seven patients operated upon before July 1983 were reviewed because they illustrate the cause, diagnosis, successful and unsuccessful management of bleeding after selective shunt. Urgent selective arteriography combined with shunt catheterization is the key diagnostic and therapeutic maneuver. Thrombosis of the shunt can be successfully managed by revising the anastomosis. Stenosis of the shunt can be successfully treated with balloon dilation or operative revision of the anastomosis. When renal vein hypertension (RVH) occurs, there might be inadequate decompression of the varices. A gradient of 10 millimeters of mercury or greater from left renal vein to vena cava is diagnostic. Measurements of 30 patients who had no bleeding and one patient with documented RVH show the gradient decreases over time. Treatment should be supportive until this adaptation occurs. Hemorrhage can also occur in patients with a patient shunt but without a significant pressure gradient. Inadequate decompression of the varices through the short gastric veins leading to the spleen has been proposed as one cause. Termed short gastric hypertension, this syndrome could be expected to parallel RVH because the venous collaterals will enlarge and eventually decompress the varices. Treatment should be aimed toward supporting the patient until this adaptation occurs. A small number of patients continue to bleed despite these therapeutic interventions but can sometimes be salvaged with a total shunt.
Hyposensitivity to vasopressin in a hemorrhaged-transfused rat model of portal hypertension.	This study was designed to evaluate the hemodynamic response to vasopressin infusion during hemorrhage and blood transfusion in a rat model of portal hypertension. Portal pressure, arterial pressure, and regional and systemic blood flows were measured in a rat model of portal hypertension receiving placebo or vasopressin infusion. Effects of the drugs were compared in control rats and rats subjected to hemorrhage and blood transfusion. In a stable portal hypertensive rat group (no hemorrhage or transfusion) a standard vasopressin dose, 2.5 mU X kg-1 X min-1, resulted in a significantly lower portal pressure (11.5 +/- 0.7 vs. 14.4 +/- 0.6 mmHg) with a concomitantly lower portal venous inflow (8.5 +/- 0.3 vs. 11.1 +/- 0.6 ml X min-1 X 100 g body wt-1) when compared with rats receiving placebo. These findings are in contrast to the effects obtained with the same dose of vasopressin given during blood transfusion to hemorrhaged portal hypertensive rats. The standard dose of vasopressin had no effect on any of the splanchnic or systemic circulatory parameters. Only when a dose of vasopressin 10 times larger was used in the hemorrhaged-transfused animals were hemodynamic effects noted. A significant decrease in portal flow and pressure was noted. These findings suggest that vasopressin given during hemorrhage may be less effective than when given during a stable state. Larger doses of vasopressin may be needed during hemorrhage to produce the same effect as seen during a controlled stable state. Caution should be used in extrapolating the results of pharmacologic studies in stable portal-hypertensive models to hypovolemic states in humans.
An early look at the therapeutic uses of some new vasopressin analogs in gastroenterology.	Natural vasopressins have been used, with varying success, in attempts to stop bleeding from esophageal varices for over two decades. Reasons for lack of success include (a) failure to induce a sufficiently prolonged and constant vasoconstrictor effect at the bleeding site, (b) dangerous side-effects, and (c) release of plasminogen activator induced by the peptides which can lyse any clot as it forms.IN THE LAST DECADE ANALOGS OF VASOPRESSIN HAVE BEEN DEVELOPED WITH A PROLONGED ACTION, USING TWO SEPARATE PRINCIPLES OF CHEMICAL MODIFICATION: (1) hormonogens, and (2) blockage of sites of inactivating enzymatic cleavage (in particular "carba" analogs without a disulfide bridge). These two categories of analog are compared here: the carba analogs have the advantages of high potency (higher than the parent hormone) with prolongation, but are also very active on the plasminogen activator release system. The hormonogens combine prolongation with low potency, but have lost not only a releasing action on plasminogen activator, but also, by virtue of altered release kinetics, have effectively lost cardiovascular toxicity.Mechanisms of analog action and receptor interaction are presented, along with initial clinical experiences.
The liver: a pharmacologic perspective.	One of the may vital functions of the liver is the biodegradation of foreign substances. The enzyme systems responsible for this liver function are frequently the site of drug interactions, both therapeutic and detrimental. Various substances can alter these enzymes by inducing, inhibiting, or competing with them, thus affecting drug response. In most instances, the liver detoxifies and deactivates chemicals, protecting the body from their harmful effects. In some biotransformation processes, however, toxic metabolites are produced that may be injurious to liver tissue as well as other body organs and systems. The effect of alcohol on the liver is a prime example. Although significant strides have been made in recent years, much is yet to be learned concerning the effect of the liver on drugs, the effect of drugs on the liver, and the pharmacologic management of various liver diseases.
Controlled trial of terlipressin ('Glypressin') versus vasopressin in the early treatment of oesophageal varices.	In a randomised controlled trial the effect of intermittent bolus injection of triglycyl lysine vasopressin (terlipressin 'Glypressin') (2 mg that 6-hourly), an analogue of vasopressin, was compared with that of a constant peripheral intravenous infusion of vasopressin (0.4 units/Min) in the initial management of bleeding oesophageal varices in nineteen patients. Failure of vasopressin therapy was defined as continued bleeding of sufficient severity to necessitate the passage of a Sengstaken tube. Bleeding was controlled in 70% of patients treated with glypressin but in only 9% of patients given vasopressin. The glypressin group required significantly less blood after randomisation than the vasopressin group. Because of its efficacy, lack of side-effects, and ease of administration, glypressin appears to be valuable in the management of bleeding varices.
The effect of Trasylol and vasopressin on experimental pancreatitis.	A dog model was established to measure the hemodynamic changes occurring during experimental pancreatitis. The effect of treatment with Trasylol and vasopressin, beginning 60 minutes after induction of pancreatitis was assessed by their effect on the pancreatic hemodynamics. The pancreatic arterial blood flow fell by 72 per cent in the dogs with induced pancreatitis and treated only with saline solution. In contrast, the pancreatic blood flow fell by 58 per cent in the Trasylol group and 80 per cent in the vasopressin group. In addition, vasopressin had a detrimental effect on the cardiac output. Neither treatment altered the changes noted in the systemic blood pressure. Trasylol had a slight beneficial effect on experimental pancreatitis when assessed by its effect on the pancreatic hemodynamics. In contrast, vasopressin had a detrimental effect on the pancreatic hemodynamics.
The effect of vasopressin analogs on water metabolism]	The effects of naturally occurring lysine and arginine vasopressins (LVP and AVP) were compared with those of 1-deamino-8-D-arginine-vasopressin (dDAVP) and 1-deamino-4-valine-D-arginine-vasopressin (dVDAVP). The changes of minute diuresis, urinary osmolarity and the duration of action were followed. dDAVP and dVDAVP in a single intravenous and intranasal dose decreased the diuresis more markedly (3.5-fold) and for a longer duration (3.3-fold) than did LVP in patients with central diabetes insipidus. The administration of dDAVP and dVDAVP in the form of sublingual tablets also proved to be effective, where dVDAVP acted more markedly and longer (16 hrs) than dDAVP (12 hrs) in a single dose of 30 micrograms. During one week of sublingual dDAVP administration, the accumulation of the drug was indicated by the gradual decrease of diuresis and the increase of urine osmolarity. The misuse of such highly active drugs may even result in iatrogenic inappropriate ADH syndrome (Schwartz-Bartter). The danger of this syndrome will be demonstrated in a case history. Some more recently synthesized vasopressin analogues with antagonistic action on the diuresis may have an important role in the therapy of Schwartz-Bartter syndrome. The authors present their results with one of these antagonists [1-(beta-mercapto-beta, beta-cyclopentamethylene-propionic acid), 2-O-ethyltyrosine, 4-valine] arginine vasopressin (d/CH2/5Tyr/Et/VAVP) both in Brattleboro and in R-Amsterdam rats. This analogue blocks the antidiuretic effect of both exogenous and endogenous vasopressin.
A case of acute esophageal variceal hemorrhage.	All those who deal with patients suffering from this discouraging and lethal disease are constantly searching for the ideal method in which to control active hemorrhage from esophageal varices. Continued nonoperative management in those whose hemorrhage does cease on purely conservative measures results in an unacceptably high mortality, the most common cause of which is recurrent bleeding. Those patients who undergo portoazygos disconnection via the transabdominal or transthoracic route are equally prone to recurrent hemorrhage unless an elective portosystemic shunt is performed. Whether such a shunt is done as an elective or as an emergency procedure, the postoperative mortality and morbidity are high. Although protection against recurrent bleeding can be expected in most, the natural history of liver disease progression (and prognosis therefrom) remains unaltered, if not occasionally aggravated. Resurgence of interest in injection sclerotherapy for immediate control of hemorrhage, with subsequent longterm control of varices by repeated injections at intervals of several months, has received enthusiastic support. Preservation of existing hepatocellular function, the simplicity of the technique, especially with the fibreoptic endoscope, and its likely impact on medical care costs in this disease are attractive benefits. It is not perfect, and prospective randomized controlled trials are required to prove its superiority over other forms of treatment, but it currently appears to be the most viable alternative. We are not alone in fervently hoping that portoazygos disconnection will rarely be required and that portosystemic shunting will become a superfluous procedure, comfortably consigned to the history books.
The hippocampal corticosterone receptor system of the homozygous diabetes insipidus (Brattleboro) rat.	The binding of [3H] corticosterone to hippocampal cytosol receptors of Brattleboro rats homozygous for diabetes insipidus (Ho-Di) and of normal Brattleboro rats (Ho-No) was investigated at 24 h after removal of the adrenals. The apparent maximal binding capacity of the Ho-Di hippocampal corticosterone receptor system was about 30% less than that of the Ho-No rats. Substitution of the vasopressin deficient rats with 1E pitressin tannate in oil partially restores the hippocampal corticosterone receptor level towards that of the control animals.
Management of variceal bleeding in the 1990s.	Variceal bleeding is a common and serious problem.
