Bacterial contamination in the environment of food factories processing ready-to-eat fresh vegetables.	A total of 196 samples were collected from equipment for trimming, washing, slicing, soaking, dehydrating, blending, and packaging and from the floor and air of operation rooms before and after operation in two food factories processing ready-to-eat fresh vegetables located in the suburbs of Tokyo. Heavy contamination determined by an aerobic plate count of >5.0 log CFU/cm2 or ml was observed after operation in most of the samples examined, as were samples taken before operation on the interior surfaces of equipment for washing, slicing, dehydrating, and blending, the surfaces of blades for slicing, and the floor surfaces of operation rooms. From these environmental samples, the coliform group was detected before operation. Although 67 strains of 70 coliforms isolated were nonfecal, three Escherichia coli strains were detected in the surface of the operation room floors and the gloves of employees. Bacillus cereus was isolated from 9 of 86 and 17 of 85 samples examined before and after operation with the number of 2.0 to 3.0 log CFU/cm2 or ml. Listeria spp. were not detected in the environment of the food factories.
Resolution of Escherichia coli O157:H7 that contaminated radish sprouts in two outbreaks by two-dimensional gel electrophoresis.	Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2-DE) was performed to examine exoproteins and periplasmic proteins of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) O157:H7 strains isolated from cases associated with radish sprouts in two outbreaks. We found that STEC O157:H7 released a large number of proteins into the medium during the stationary phase of growth, as observed with 2-DE. Although pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) patterns of STECs NGY9 (RIMD0509894), a Sakai isolate; NGY33, a Gamagoori isolate; and NGY120, a Kanagawa isolate, were all the same, comparison of 2-DE patterns of exoproteins and periplasmic proteins clarified that NGY9 was distinct from NGY33, whereas NGY33 and NGY120 were of close lineage. We therefore suggest that 2-DE analysis of exoproteins and periplasmic proteins is a powerful epidemiological method with high resolution.
Ionizing radiation sensitivity of Listeria monocytogenes ATCC 49594 and Listeria innocua ATCC 51742 inoculated on endive (Cichorium endiva).	Ionizing radiation inactivates the pathogenic bacteria that can contaminate leafy green vegetables. Leaf pieces and leaf homogenate of endive (Cichorium endiva) were inoculated with the pathogen Listeria monocytogenes (ATCC 49594) or Listeria innocua (ATCC 51742), a nonpathogenic surrogate bacterium. The radiation sensitivity of the two strains was similar, although L. innocua was more sensitive to the type of suspending leaf preparation. During refrigerated storage after irradiation, the population of L. monocytogenes on inoculated endive was briefly suppressed by 0.42 kilogray (kGy), a dose calibrated to achieve a 99% reduction. However, the pathogen regrew after 5 days until it exceeded the bacterial levels on the control after 19 days in storage. Treatment with 0.84 kGy, equivalent to a 99.99% reduction, suppressed L. monocytogenes throughout refrigerated storage. Doses up to 1.0 kGy had no significant effect on the color of endive leaf material, regardless of whether taken from the leaf edge or the leaf midrib. The texture of leaf edge material was unaffected by doses up to 1.0 kGy, whereas the maximum dose tolerated by leaf midrib material was 0.8 kGy. These results show that endive leaves may be treated with doses sufficient to achieve at least a 99.99% reduction of L. monocytogenes with little or no impact on the product's texture or color.
Evaluation of a select strain of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis as a biological control agent for pathogens on fresh-cut vegetables stored at 7 degrees C.	Raw vegetables inoculated with selected pathogenic bacteria were treated with a strain of Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. lactis, which was selected for its ability to produce hydrogen peroxide at refrigerated temperatures. The vegetables inoculated included broccoli, cabbage, carrots, and lettuce. Each vegetable was rinsed, chopped, and stored under conditions similar to those used for ready-to-eat vegetables sold at retail. Portions of each vegetable were separately inoculated with one of two pathogenic bacteria, Escherichia coli O157:H7 or Listeria monocytogenes. Prior to packaging, one portion of each inoculated vegetable was treated with a cell suspension of the selected strain of L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis. The vegetables were stored at 7 degrees C for 6 days. The populations of pathogens and lactobacilli on each sample were enumerated on storage days 0, 3, and 6. Although populations of L. delbrueckii subsp. lactis remained at high levels during storage, there was no noticeable antagonistic action against the pathogens under conditions similar to those used for these products at the retail level. Each pathogen survived on all vegetables throughout storage. Further testing revealed that there was apparently sufficient catalase activity in the cut vegetables to destroy enough of the hydrogen peroxide to prevent antagonistic action against the pathogens.
Occurrence of pathogens on vegetables harvested from soils irrigated with contaminated streams.	The study assesses the contamination level, the seasonal distribution and the toxigenicity of pathogens isolated from irrigated vegetables and the water used for irrigation. A total of 196 samples of water used for irrigation and 326 irrigated vegetables were obtained from Kawo drain, Sabon Gari drain and River Galma and examined using standard procedures for coliform and viable counts and the presence of E. coli, Salmonella and Vibrio during the dry and wet seasons. Irrigation water from Kawo drain had significantly higher coliform counts by location and season than water from the other two locations. Although all the vegetables had coliform counts higher than the recommended standard (range 3.40-6.38 log(10) cfuml(-1)), amaranthus had significantly higher (P<0.05) counts than other vegetables during the dry season. Salmonella was significantly more likely to be detected during the dry season than during the wet (OR 4.91, 1.07<OR<31.16). Of the 39 enteropathogenic E. coli isolated, 15 (38.5%) were toxigenic by ileal loop test. There is need to educate farmers on the risk involved in the use of waste contaminated water for irrigation. The need to wash and disinfect raw vegetables before consumption is stressed.
Genotypic analyses of lactobacilli with a range of tannase activities isolated from human feces and fermented foods.	A total of 77 tannase producing lactobacilli strains isolated from human feces or fermented foods were examined for their genotypic profiles and intensities of tannase production. With a PCR-based assay targeting recA gene, all strains except one isolate were assigned to either Lactobacillus plantarum, L. paraplantarum, or L. pentosus whereas a 16/23S rDNA targeted PCR-based assay identified all except 6 isolates (inclusive of the above one isolate) as one of the closely related species. Subsequent DNA/DNA hybridization assays revealed that these 6 exceptional isolates showed low homology (between 1.2% and 55.8% relative DNA binding) against type strains of the three species. Supplemental carbohydrate fermentation profiles on the 6 isolates indicated that two of them were identified as L. acidophilus, one as Pediococcus acidilactici, one as P. pentosaceus, and two remained unidentifiable. The evidence suggests that the 16/23S rDNA targeted PCR assay can be used as a reliable identification tool for the closely related lactobacilli, and that the tannase gene is widely distributed within members of the Lactobacillaceae family. Meanwhile, a randomly amplified polymorphism DNA (RAPD) analysis revealed that all except 8 isolates were well allocated in 4 major RAPD clusters, though not species specific, consisting of two L. plantarum predominant clusters, one L. paraplantarum predominant, and one L. pentosus predominant. The RAPD patterns of the 8 non-clustered isolates, which consisted of the 6 unidentifiable isolates and 2 isolates identified as L. pentosus, were <40% similarity to those belonging to the 4 clusters. A quantitative assay of the tannase activities showed that there was a marked variation in the activities among the strains, which did not correlate with either species identification or clustering by RAPD.
Prevalence, antibiotic susceptibility, and virulence factors of Yersinia enterocolitica and related species from ready-to-eat vegetables available in Korea.	A total of 673 ready-to-eat vegetable samples were collected in Korea from 2001 to 2002 and analyzed for the presence of Yersinia spp. We analyzed biotypes, serotypes, and susceptibility to 12 antibiotics and tested for virulence genes of pathogenic Yersinia enterocolitica isolates by PCR assay. Among the samples, 27 (4.0%) were found to be contaminated with Yersinia spp. Among the 27 strains of Yersinia spp. isolates, 18 strains (66.7%) of Y. enterocolitica, 5 strains (18.5%) of Y. frederiksenii, 3 strains (11.1%) of Y. intermedia, and 1 strain (3.7%) of Y. kristensenii were identified. According to the serotypes of Y. enterocolitica isolates, O:3 (11.1%) and O:5 (11.1%) were the most predominant, followed by O:8 (5.6%) and others (72.2%). For biotypes of Y. enterocolitica isolates, 1A (77.8%) was the most predominant, followed by 3B (11.1%), 3 (5.6%), and 5A (5.6%). Also, an antibiotic susceptibility test showed that Y. enterocolitica isolates were very susceptible to the antibiotics tested but highly resistant to ampicillin (94%), cephalothin (100%), and carbenicillin (83%). PCR assays with specific primers derived from yst and ail genes of Y. enterocolitica were applied to confirm the presence of pathogenic Y. enterocolitica. Among the 18 strains of Y. enterocolitica isolates, only 3 strains (O:3/1A, UT/3B, and UT/1A isolated from Chinese cabbage, onion, and spinach, respectively) were shown to have a virulence gene.
Prevalence of microbial biofilms on selected fresh produce and household surfaces.	Investigations of biofilms in domestic environments are sparsely represented in the literature. In this study, samples of various household surfaces, including food, laundry and kitchen items, were analyzed for evidence of biofilm presence. Visualization of the surfaces was carried out using cryostage scanning electron microscopy (CSEM) and light microscopy. Qualitative evidence of the presence of biofilm formation was obtained from all of the sample groups analyzed, suggesting the widespread existence of microorganisms in biofilms on domestic surfaces. This suggests that biofilms may be important in household hygiene, and highlights the need for standardized, approved biofilm methods suitable for consumer products testing.
Genetic procedures for identification of enterotoxigenic strains of Staphylococcus aureus from three food poisoning outbreaks.	Three food poisoning restaurant outbreaks due to Staphylococcus aureus, occurring during June-October 2002 in the Principality of Asturias (PA), Spain, provided the basis for investigating some aspects of the molecular epidemiology of this organism. The methods applied to identify strains and lineages included multiplex-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect nine enterotoxin (se) genes, and three DNA fingerprinting procedures: pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) with SmaI, randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) with two selected primers, and plasmid restriction analysis with HindIII. Thirty-two isolates were differentiated into three non-se and 12 se strains, which were outbreak-specific, except for one that was represented in two of the outbreaks. In outbreak 1, the 16 food isolates analyzed had sec, seg and sei genes and generated a distinctive DNA fingerprint, being assigned to a single strain. This strain could be categorized as endemic in the PA and associated to manually handled dairy products and nasal carriers. In outbreak 2, the four food isolates analyzed fell into three strains, each one displaying a different se-gene profile (sea, sec and seg-seh-sei) and a distinctive DNA fingerprint. In outbreak 3, the five food isolates tested fell into four seg-sei strains generating identical RAPD but different PFGE and plasmid profiles, and one sea strain also collected from two nasal carriers. This last strain had also been found in manually handled vegetables in outbreak 2, and it belongs to a not very frequently found sea lineage in the PA. Multiplex-PCR to detect se genes together with the three applied DNA fingerprint typing procedures proved therefore to be useful tools in subclassifying S. aureus for epidemiological purposes.
Isolation and characterization of lactobacilli from some traditional fermented foods and evaluation of the bacteriocins.	Lactic acid bacteria (LAB) commonly used in food as starter cultures are known to produce antimicrobial substances such as bacteriocins and have great potential as food biopreservatives. LAB isolated from traditional fermented foods (appam batter and pickles) were screened for bacteriocin production. Two lactobacilli, LABB and LABP (one from each source) producing bacteriocins were characterized. Both the bacilli were homo-fermentative, catalase negative and micro-aerophilic in nature. LABB was found to be a thermobacterium growing at 45 degrees C while LABP was a streptobacterium growing at 15 degrees C. Both were able to grow at pH 4.5-8.6 but were intolerant to high salt concentration. They failed to produce gas from glucose as well as ammonia from arginine. Among the sugars examined they could not ferment arabinose, raffinose, rhamnose or xylose. Additionally, LABB could not ferment esculin, gluconate or mannose. LABB is identified as Lactobacillus acidophilus while LABP as Lb. casei. Their bacteriocins showed a broad inhibitory spectrum against the indicator organisms tested. They were active below pH 8.0 and after autoclaving as well. There was a complete loss of activity when treated with proteolytic enzymes such as trypsin indicating the proteinaceous nature of the active molecules. SDS-PAGE of partially purified bacteriocins indicated the molecular mass of the bacteriocin as 3.8 and 4.5 kDa for LABB and LABP respectively.
Occurrence of antibiotic-resistant enterobacteria in agricultural foodstuffs.	Antibiotic-resistant bacteria or their corresponding resistance determinants are known to spread from animals to humans via the food chain. We screened 20 vegetable foods for antibiotic-resistant coliform bacteria and enterococci. Isolates were directly selected on antibiotic-containing selective agar (color detection). Thirteen "common vegetables" (tomato, mushrooms, salad) possessed 10(4)-10(7) cfu/g vegetable of coliform bacteria including only few antibiotic-resistant variants (0-10(5) cfu/g). All seven sprout samples showed a some orders of magnitude higher contamination with coliform bacteria (10(7)-10(9) cfu/g) including a remarkable amount of resistant isolates (up to 10(7) cfu/g). Multiple resistances (up to 9) in single isolates were more common in sprout isolates. Resistant bacteria did not originate from sprout seeds. The most common genera among 92 isolates were: 25 Enterobacter spp. (19 E. cloacae), 22 Citrobacter spp. (8 C. freundii), and 21 Klebsiella spp. (9 K. pneumoniae). Most common resistance phenotypes were: tetracycline (43%), streptomycin (37%), kanamycin (26%), chloramphenicol (29%), co-trimoxazol (9%), and gentamicin (4%). The four gentamicin-resistant isolates were investigated in molecular details. Only three (chloramphenicol) resistant, typical plant-associated enterococci were isolated from overnight enrichment cultures. In conclusion, a contribution of sprouts contaminated with multiresistant, Gram-negative enterobacteria to a common gene pool among human commensal and pathogenic bacteria cannot be excluded.
Interactions of Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella typhimurium and Listeria monocytogenes plants cultivated in a gnotobiotic system.	The growth and persistence of Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella typhimurium and Listeria monocytogenes on a diverse range of plant types over extended cultivation periods was studied. When introduced on the seed of carrot, cress, lettuce, radish, spinach and tomato all the pathogens became rapidly established shortly after germination, attaining cell densities of the order of 5.5-6.5 log cfu/g. In general, Es. coli O157:H7 and L. monocytogenes became established and persisted at significantly higher levels on seedlings (9 days post-germination) than Salmonella. Es. coli O157:H7 became internalized in cress, lettuce, radish and spinach seedlings but was not recovered within the tissues of mature plants. Internalization of Salmonella was also observed in lettuce and radish but not cress or spinach seedlings. In contrast, L. monocytogenes did not internalize within seedlings but did persist on the surface of plants throughout the cultivation period. Co-inoculation of isolates recovered from the rhizosphere of plants did not significantly affect the numbers or persistence of human pathogens. The only exception was with Enterobacter cloacae, which reduced Es. coli O157:H7 Ph1 and L. monocytogenes levels by ca. 1 log cfu/g on lettuce. With the bioluminescent phenotype of Es. coli O157:H7 Ph1, it was demonstrated that the human pathogen became established on the roots of growing plants. Scanning electron micrographs of root seedlings suggested that Es. coli O157:H7 Ph1 preferentially colonized the root junctions of seedlings. It is proposed that such colonization sites enhanced the persistence of Es. coli O157:H7 on plants and facilitated internalization within developing seedlings. The results suggest that the risk associated with internalized human pathogens in salad vegetables at harvest is low. Nevertheless, the introduction of human pathogens at an early stage of plant development could enhance their persistence in the rhizosphere. The implications of the study with regards to on-farm food safety initiatives are discussed.
Moulds and yeasts in fresh and minimally processed vegetables, and sprouts.	A limited survey of fresh and minimally processed vegetables, and sprouts was conducted in the Washington, DC area to determine if potentially toxigenic and pathogenic fungi were present in these commodities. Thirty-nine ready-to-eat salads, 29 whole fresh vegetables and 116 sprout samples (bean, alfalfa, broccoli, crunchy, garlic, spicy, onion, clover, lentil and multi-seed sprouts) were purchased from 13 local supermarkets and tested for yeast and mould counts as well as the presence of toxigenic moulds. Yeasts were the most prevalent organisms found in these samples, at levels ranging from less than 100 to 4.0x10(8) cfu/g. Mould counts generally ranged from less than 100 to 4.0x10(4) cfu/g. Two crunchy sprout samples, however, contained unusually high numbers of Penicillium (1.1x10(8) and 1.3x10(8) cfu/g), two alfalfa sprout samples contained Geotrichum populations about 10(6) cfu/g, and two alfalfa sprout samples had Cladosporium counts higher than 2.5x10(5) cfu/g. The most common moulds found in fresh and minimally processed vegetables were Cladosporium, Alternaria and Penicillium; less common was Geotrichum. The most frequently isolated moulds from sprouts were Alternaria, Cladosporium, Penicillium, and Phoma. Phoma was especially common in alfalfa sprouts. Fusarium, Rhizopus, Mucor, and Geotrichum were isolated less often.
Effectiveness of irradiation treatments in inactivating Listeria monocytogenes on fresh vegetables at refrigeration temperature.	Ionizing radiation can be effective in controlling the growth of food spoilage and foodborne pathogenic bacteria. This study reports on an investigation of the effectiveness of irradiation treatment to eliminate Listeria monocytogenes on laboratory-inoculated broccoli, cabbage, tomatoes, and mung bean sprouts. Irradiation of broccoli and mung bean sprouts at 1.0 kGy resulted in reductions of approximately 4.88 and 4.57 log CFU/g, respectively, of a five-strain cocktail of L. monocytogenes. Reductions of approximately 5.25 and 4.14 log CFU/g were found with cabbage and tomato, respectively, at a similar dose. The appearance, color, texture, taste, and overall acceptability did not undergo significant changes after 7 days of postirradiation storage at 4 degrees C, in comparison with control samples. Therefore, low-dose ionizing radiation treatment could be an effective method for eliminating L. monocytogenes on fresh and fresh-cut produce.
Presence of Bacillus cereus in street foods in Gaborone, Botswana.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the microbiological safety and quality of street foods sold in Gaborone, Botswana. A total of 148 point-of-sale composite street food samples were bought and analyzed between June 2001 and May 2002. The analysis focused on the level of contamination of various street foods with Bacillus cereus. The B. cereus (vegetative and spores), total spore, and total viable counts were determined on all the samples. Also B. cereus isolates from 444 individual point-of-sale food samples were characterized with respect to their biochemical profiles and enterotoxigenic properties. The B. cereus contamination rate for point-of-sale foods was 65%. The B. cereus counts ranged from not detectable to levels as high as 9.1 log CFU/g. Despite the high rate of contamination of some samples, generally, most samples had B. cereus counts of less than 4 log CFU/g; hence, they were of acceptable microbiological quality. Bacillus diarrheal enterotoxin was detected from 52 isolates from individual portions of meals using the B. cereus enterotoxin reversed passive latex agglutination kit. Results of the assay revealed that 59.6% of the B. cereus isolates were enterotoxigenic. Most of the enterotoxigenic isolates were obtained from vegetable samples.
Hospital green salads and the effects of washing them.	Each week from April 1989 to February 1990, a plate of green salad prepared in the hospital kitchen was examined microbiologically. Of the 256 plates examined, 51% had total viable counts (TVCs) of greater than or equal to 10(5) colony forming units (cfu) g-1. Staphylococcus aureus was present in 13 samples and Escherichia coli in one sample. No Listeria monocytogenes, Clostridium perfringens or Salmonella spp. were isolated. The effect of washing mustard and cress, cucumber and the different layers of lettuce leaves was examined. Washing the salad by agitating it under running tap water in a colander for 2 min reduced the total bacterial counts by 10-fold. The inner leaves of a lettuce had TVCs less than 10(4)cfu g-1, at least 10-100-fold less than the outer leaves. Cucumber after washing had similar TVCs as after peeling. Five of six samples of mustard and cress had TVCs of at least 10(6)cfu g-1 before washing. As a consequence, mustard and cress was no longer used in our salads.
Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) O157 outbreak, The Netherlands, September-October 2005.	In September 2005, the first national food-related outbreak of Shiga toxin (Stx)-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) O157 was investigated in the Netherlands. A total of 21 laboratory-confirmed cases (including one secondary case), and another 11 probable cases (two primary and nine secondary cases) were reported in patients who became ill between 11 September and 10 October 2005. Preliminary investigation suggested consumption of a raw beef product, steak tartare (in the Netherlands also known as "filet americain"), and contact with other symptomatic persons as possible risk factors. A subsequent case-control study supported the hypothesis that steak tartare was the source of the outbreak (matched odds ratio (OR) 272, 95% confidence interval (CI) 3-23,211). Consumption of ready-to-eat vegetables was also associated with STEC O157 infection (matched OR 24, 95% CI 1.1-528), but was considered a less likely source, as only 40% of the cases were exposed. Samples of steak tartare collected from one chain of supermarkets where it is likely that most patients (67%) bought steak tartare, all tested negative for STEC O157. However, sampling was done three days after the date of symptom onset of the last reported case. Since 88% of the cases became ill within a two week period, point source contamination may explain these negative results. It is concluded that steak tartare was the most likely cause of the first national food-related outbreak of STEC O157 in the Netherlands.
Characterization of Listeria monocytogenes isolated from retail foods.	Listeria monocytogenes isolates recovered from retail ready-to-eat (RTE) meats, raw chickens and fresh produce were characterized by serogroup identification using PCR, genotyping using pulsed-field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) and antimicrobial susceptibility testing. Five L. monocytogenes serogroups were identified. Of the 167 isolates 68 (41%) belonged to serogroup 1/2b, 3b; 53 (32%) belonged to serogroup 4b, 4d, 4e; 43 (26%) belonged to serogroup 1/2a, 3a; 2 (1.2%) belonged to serogroup 1/2c, 3c; and 1 (0.6%) belonged to serogroup 4a, 4c. PFGE generated 120 patterns which correlated well with PCR serogrouping. Most L. monocytogenes isolates were resistant to sulfonamide (73%) and some were resistant to tetracycline (8.4%) and ciprofloxacin (1.8%). Tetracycline resistance was conjugatively transferable and the tet(M) gene was identified in 14 tetracycline-resistant isolates as well as their transconjugants. These findings indicate that L. monocytogenes present in food were diverse, and that resistance to one or more antibiotics among these isolates was common. In addition, the presence of potential serotype 4b in all food categories is of public health concern, as serotype 4b has been the serotype most frequently associated with human listeriosis.
In vitro fermentation studies for selection and evaluation of Bacillus strains as starter cultures for the production of okpehe, a traditional African fermented condiment.	Selected Bacillus and Enterococcus strains, isolated from traditional okpehe fermentations, were studied for their suitability as starter cultures in laboratory-scale fermentations of Prosopis africana seeds for the production of okpehe, a traditional fermented vegetable product of Nigeria. The strains were selected on the basis of highest proteolytic activity, as determined with the APIZYM (BioMerieux) test. The choice of starter strains was narrowed to Bacillus subtilis strains BFE 5301 and BFE 5372. These were determined as the best starter combination because of rapid growth, high amylolytic and proteolytic activities, high levels of polyglutamic acid production by strain BFE 5372, as well as bacteriocin production by strain BFE 5301. Other mixed culture fermentations did not yield sensorically acceptable products. Although a monoculture fermentation, using only B. subtilis strain BFE 5372, produced okpehe with very good sensory characteristics, the growth of B. cereus could be detected after 48 h fermentation, indicating that this starter did not sufficiently contribute to product safety. Mixed culture fermentation with the combination of bacteriocin-producing starter B. subtilis BFE 5301 and the non-bacteriocin-producing B. subtilis BFE 5372, produced a product with good sensory characteristics, in which growth of B. cereus was delayed. The bacteriocin produced by B. subtilis strain BFE 5301 was identified as subtilisin, using subtilisin-specific primers and PCR amplification of the subtilisin gene. The bacteriocin was heat-stable at 100 degrees C for 10 min and exhibited highest activity at pH values lower or equal to pH 6.0. The bacteriocin was sensitive to the proteolytic enzymes trypsin and alpha-chymotrypsin at concentrations of 10 mg/ml.
Application of matrix solid-phase dispersion and liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry to fungicide residue analysis in fruits and vegetables.	A method based on matrix solid-phase dispersion (MSPD) and liquid chromatography-electrospay ionization-mass spectrometry used to analyze fifteen fungicide residues in fruits and vegetables is described. The method required only 0.5 g of sample, C(18)-bonded silica was used as dispersant sorbent, and ethyl acetate was used as eluting solvent. Fortified recoveries in apple, orange, banana, lettuce, grape and tomato samples ranged from 71% to 102% and relative standard deviations were less than 13% with fortified levels of 0.03-1.5 mg kg(-1). Detection and quantification limits were 1 approximately 30 microg kg(-1) and 4 approximately 100 microg kg(-1), respectively, with linear calibration curves extending up to 15 mg kg(-1). The analytical characteristics of MSPD compared very favorably with those found for a classical multiresidue method: the quick, easy, cheap, effective, rugged, and safe (QuEChERS) method. The method was applied to determine the fungicides in real samples. Liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS-MS) was used as confirmatory tool for positive samples.
Estimation of microbial contamination of food from prevalence and concentration data: application to Listeria monocytogenes in fresh vegetables.	A normal distribution and a mixture model of two normal distributions in a Bayesian approach using prevalence and concentration data were used to establish the distribution of contamination of the food-borne pathogenic bacteria Listeria monocytogenes in unprocessed and minimally processed fresh vegetables. A total of 165 prevalence studies, including 15 studies with concentration data, were taken from the scientific literature and from technical reports and used for statistical analysis. The predicted mean of the normal distribution of the logarithms of viable L. monocytogenes per gram of fresh vegetables was -2.63 log viable L. monocytogenes organisms/g, and its standard deviation was 1.48 log viable L. monocytogenes organisms/g. These values were determined by considering one contaminated sample in prevalence studies in which samples are in fact negative. This deliberate overestimation is necessary to complete calculations. With the mixture model, the predicted mean of the distribution of the logarithm of viable L. monocytogenes per gram of fresh vegetables was -3.38 log viable L. monocytogenes organisms/g and its standard deviation was 1.46 log viable L. monocytogenes organisms/g. The probabilities of fresh unprocessed and minimally processed vegetables being contaminated with concentrations higher than 1, 2, and 3 log viable L. monocytogenes organisms/g were 1.44, 0.63, and 0.17%, respectively. Introducing a sensitivity rate of 80 or 95% in the mixture model had a small effect on the estimation of the contamination. In contrast, introducing a low sensitivity rate (40%) resulted in marked differences, especially for high percentiles. There was a significantly lower estimation of contamination in the papers and reports of 2000 to 2005 than in those of 1988 to 1999 and a lower estimation of contamination of leafy salads than that of sprouts and other vegetables. The interest of the mixture model for the estimation of microbial contamination is discussed.
Characterization of a luxI/luxR-type quorum sensing system and N-acyl-homoserine lactone-dependent regulation of exo-enzyme and antibacterial component production in Serratia plymuthica RVH1.	Quorum sensing by means of N-acyl-l-homoserine lactones (AHLs) is widespread in Gram-negative bacteria, where diverse AHLs influence a wide variety of functions, even in a single genus such as Serratia. Here we report the identification and characterization of the quorum sensing system of Serratia plymuthica strain RVH1. This strain isolated from a raw vegetable processing line produces at least three AHLs which were identified as N-butanoyl- (C4-HSL), N-hexanoyl- (C6-HSL) and N-(3-oxo-hexanoyl)-homoserine lactone (3-oxo-C6-HSL). The identified LuxI homolog SplI synthesizes 3-oxo-C6-HSL, and influences the production of C4-HSL and C6-HSL, as splI gene inactivation resulted in loss of 3-oxo-C6-HSL production and smaller amounts of C4-HSL and C6-HSL produced. SplI-dependent quorum sensing controls 2,3-butanediol fermentation (previously reported) and the production of an extracellular chitinase, nuclease, protease and antibacterial compound. The identity of the latter is not yet elucidated, but appears to be different from the known antibacterial compounds produced by Serratia strains. SplR, the homolog of the LuxR regulator, appears to act as a repressor of synthesis of extracellular enzymes and antibacterial compound and to autorepress its own expression, probably by binding to a 21bp lux box sequence.
Susceptibility of Listeria monocytogenes strains isolated from dairy products and frozen vegetables to antibiotics inhibiting murein synthesis and to disinfectants.	The susceptibility of 96 strains of Listeria monocytogenes isolated from food to antibiotics and disinfectants currently used in human therapy, veterinary, medicine and food industry was determined by a standard operating procedure--broth dilution method. Antimicrobial agents included the beta-lactams ampicillin and penicillin, the lantibiotic nisin, and the disinfectants benzalkonium chloride and chlorhexidine gluconate. Among the studied strains we found 13 strains with 8-fold, 7 strains with 16-fold and 2 strains with 32-fold decreased susceptibility to ampicillin, as determined by MIC, compared to wild type reference strain. Interestingly, the mentioned strains were isolated from frozen vegetables and soups, none of the isolates from dairy products showed any elevated resistance to the studied antimicrobial agents. The occurrence in food products of strains with increased resistance to ampicillin is disquieting, especially since 3-lactams are the most frequent antibiotic of choice in the therapy of infections caused by the pathogen.
Factors affecting compost tea as a potential source of Escherichia coli and Salmonella on fresh produce.	Compost tea (CT) is an unheated on-farm infusion of compost used as a spray or soil drench to promote plant growth and control foliar and root diseases. Because food safety involves all aspects from farm to fork, CT should meet basic microbiological criteria for water quality. This report describes the effects of two CT production processes, aerated and nonaerated, on growth and survival of foodborne pathogens and fecal coliforms. Seven commercially available nutrients used to supplement CT were tested individually and in combination for their effects on the growth of Escherichia coli and Salmonella. Compost containing 10(1) to 10(3) CFU/g initial concentrations of E. coli O157:H7 and Salmonella Enteritidis were used to assess growth and survival responses to aerated CT (36-h preparations) and nonaerated CT (8.5-day preparations). Pathogen and fecal coliform populations were undetectable by 8.5 days in nonaerated CT without nutrient supplements. E. coli O157:H7 decreased to below detection levels in aerated CT at 36 h without the use of supplements. In contrast, the addition of commercially formulated mixtures or combinations of nutrient supplements resulted in growth of E. coli O157: H7, Salmonella, and fecal coliforms by 1 to 4 log CFU/g in both aerated and nonaerated CT. When nutrient supplements were added, aerated CT sustained higher concentrations of E. coli O157:H7, Salmonella, and fecal coliforms than did nonaerated CT. Thus, addition of supplements supports growth of human pathogens from very low initial concentrations in both aerated and nonaerated CT and should be avoided when CT is used on fresh produce.
Modeling the effects of sodium chloride, acetic acid, and intracellular pH on survival of Escherichia coli O157:H7.	Microbiological safety has been a critical issue for acid and acidified foods since it became clear that acid-tolerant pathogens such as Escherichia coli O157:H7 can survive (even though they are unable to grow) in a pH range of 3 to 4, which is typical for these classes of food products. The primary antimicrobial compounds in these products are acetic acid and NaCl, which can alter the intracellular physiology of E. coli O157:H7, leading to cell death. For combinations of acetic acid and NaCl at pH 3.2 (a pH value typical for non-heat-processed acidified vegetables), survival curves were described by using a Weibull model. The data revealed a protective effect of NaCl concentration on cell survival for selected acetic acid concentrations. The intracellular pH of an E. coli O157:H7 strain exposed to acetic acid concentrations of up to 40 mM and NaCl concentrations between 2 and 4% was determined. A reduction in the intracellular pH was observed for increasing acetic acid concentrations with an external pH of 3.2. Comparing intracellular pH with Weibull model predictions showed that decreases in intracellular pH were significantly correlated with the corresponding times required to achieve a 5-log reduction in the number of bacteria.
Immunomodulatory activity of Lactobacillus strains isolated from fermented vegetables and infant stool.	Four Lactobacillus strains - Lactobacillus plantarum CJLP133, L. plantarum CJLP243, L. plantarum CJNR26, and Lactobacillus gasseri CJMF3 - were isolated from Korean fermented food or healthy infant feces, and their capacity to modulate cellular and humoral immune responses was studied. Feeding of the tested lactobacilli for 8 weeks did not alter the weight of and cell numbers in the spleen of mice. However, CJLP133 and CJLP243 strains increased the T lymphocyte population in the spleen of mice, while CJNR26 and CJMF3 increased the B lymphocyte population. In splenocytes treated with concanavalin A, ingestion of CJLP133 and CJLP243 promoted T lymphocyte proliferation and secretion of T cell cytokines, whereas feeding of the CJNR26 and CJMF3 strains enhanced B lymphocyte proliferation in splenocytes treated with lipopolysaccharide and plaque formation. These results suggest that CJLP133 and CJLP243 have immunostimulating activity through the enhancement of T cell activation, while CJNR26 and CJMF3 exhibit immunopotentiation through the increment of B cell activation.
The two-step biotransformation of monosodium glutamate to GABA by Lactobacillus brevis growing and resting cells.	Gama-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a natural functional amino acid. In the current study, Lactobacillus brevis TCCC13007, a high GABA-producing strain, was isolated from naturally pickled Chinese vegetables. A two-step cellular bioconversion process was established using L. brevis TCCC13007 for the production of GABA. First, L. brevis cells were grown anaerobically in 7% monosodium glutamate (MSG)-containing medium at an initial pH of 6.0 and a controlled pH of 4.6 for 16 to 66 h; approximately 38 g L(-1) of GABA was obtained after 66 h of fermentation at a conversion rate of 98.6%. In the second stage of the process, about 7.6 g L(-1) of GABA was produced three more times at a conversion rate of 92.2% using the same batch of resting cells in the substrate-containing buffer under optimized conditions. Thus, the total GABA yield reached 61 g L(-1). A model system for the biotransformation of MSG to GABA was established using L. brevis TCCC13007 resting cells. The reaction rates were found to follow the classic Michaelis-Menten equation at low substrate concentrations (<80 mM). Kinetic analysis of the biotransformation revealed that L. brevis TCCC13007 resting cells produced GABA similar to that produced by purified glutamate decarboxylase from L. brevis.
Prevalence of the main food-borne pathogens in retail food under the national food surveillance system in Japan.	The National Food Surveillance System in Japan was formed in 1998 to monitor the contamination of retail foods with bacterial pathogens. Approximately 2000-3000 samples were tested annually, and the data from food categories that had more than 400 samples collected during 1998-2008 were analysed. With regard to meat, the frequency of positive samples for Salmonella in chicken for raw consumption and ground chicken was 12.7% and 33.5%, respectively. Moreover, Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli (STEC) O157 was found in ground meat, organ meat and processed meat, although at a low frequency (0.1%). The prevalence of Campylobacter jejuni/coli was 13.3% and 20.9% in chicken for raw consumption and ground chicken, respectively. In vegetables and fruit, Salmonella was detected in cucumber, lettuce, sprout and tomato samples at a frequency of around 0.1-0.2%. With regard to seafood, Salmonella was found in 0.5% of oysters for raw consumption. Seafood was not contaminated with STEC O157 or Shigella. Serotype Infantis was the most frequently detected serotype of Salmonella in seafood, followed by the serotypes Typhimurium, Schwarzengrund and Manhattan. In ground chicken, 72.2% of the strains were identified as the serotype Infantis. E. coli, as an indicator of food hygiene, was detected in all food categories. The results show the prevalence of the above-mentioned pathogens in the retail food supplied in Japan; further, they indicate that consumption of raw food carries the risk of contracting food-borne infections. 
A framework for developing research protocols for evaluation of microbial hazards and controls during production that pertain to the quality of agricultural water contacting fresh produce that may be consumed raw.	Agricultural water may contact fresh produce during irrigation and/or when crop protection sprays (e.g., cooling to prevent sunburn, frost protection, and agrochemical mixtures) are applied. This document provides a framework for designing research studies that would add to our understanding  of preharvest microbial food safety hazards and control measures pertaining to agricultural water. Researchers will be able to use this document to design studies, to anticipate the scope and detail of data required, and to evaluate previously published work. This document should also be useful  for evaluating the strength of existing data and thus should aid in identifying future research needs. Use of this document by the research community may lead to greater consistency or comparability than currently exists among research studies, which may ultimately facilitate direct comparison  of hazards and efficacy of controls among different commodities, conditions, and practices.
Lactobacillus heilongjiangensis sp. nov., isolated from Chinese pickle.	A Gram-stain-positive bacterial strain, S4-3(T), was isolated from traditional pickle in Heilongjiang Province, China. The bacterium was characterized by a polyphasic approach, including 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis, pheS gene sequence analysis, rpoA gene sequence analysis, dnaK gene sequence analysis, fatty acid methyl ester (FAME) analysis, determination of DNA G+C content, DNA-DNA hybridization and an analysis of phenotypic features. Strain S4-3(T) showed 97.9-98.7 % 16S rRNA gene sequence similarities, 84.4-94.1 % pheS gene sequence similarities and 94.4-96.9 % rpoA gene sequence similarities to the type strains of Lactobacillus nantensis, Lactobacillus mindensis, Lactobacillus crustorum, Lactobacillus futsaii, Lactobacillus farciminis and Lactobacillus kimchiensis. dnaK gene sequence similarities between S4-3(T) and Lactobacillus nantensis LMG 23510(T), Lactobacillus mindensis LMG 21932(T), Lactobacillus crustorum LMG 23699(T), Lactobacillus futsaii JCM 17355(T) and Lactobacillus farciminis LMG 9200(T) were 95.4, 91.5, 90.4, 91.7 and 93.1 %, respectively. Based upon the data obtained in the present study, a novel species, Lactobacillus heilongjiangensis sp. nov., is proposed and the type strain is S4-3(T) ( = LMG 26166(T) = NCIMB 14701(T)). 
Evidence for xylooligosaccharide utilization in Weissella strains isolated from Indian fermented foods and vegetables.	Six strains isolated from fermented food were identified as Weissella species by 16S rDNA sequencing, clustering with the species pair W. confusa/W. cibaria. The strains were analysed for growth on glucose, xylose and xylooligosaccharides (XOS). All strains were xylose positive using the API CHL 50 test. Growth on XOS was observed for strains 85, 92, 145 and AV1, firstly by optical density measurements in microtitre plates and secondly in batch cultures also confirming concomitant decrease in pH. Analysis of XOS before and after growth established consumption in the DP2-DP5 range in the four XOS-fermenting strains. XOS were consumed simultaneously with glucose, while xylose was consumed after glucose depletion. Cell-associated β-xylosidase activity was detected in the XOS-fermenting strains. Analysis of genomic data suggests this activity to be linked with genes encoding glycoside hydrolases from family 3, 8 or 43. No endo-β-xylanase activity was detectable. Major end products were lactate and acetate. A higher ratio of acetic acid to lactic acid was obtained during growth on XOS compared with growth on glucose. This is the first report on utilization of XOS in Weissella, indicating an increased probiotic potential for XOS-utilizing strains from the species pair W. confusa/W. cibaria, but also showing that XOS utilization is strain dependent for these species.
Additive approach for inactivation of Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella, and Shigella spp. on contaminated fresh fruits and vegetables using bacteriophage cocktail and produce wash.	The incidence of foodborne outbreaks involving fresh produce is of worldwide concern. Lytic bacteriophage cocktails and a levulinic acid produce wash were investigated for their effectiveness against the foodborne pathogens Escherichia coli O157:H7, Shigella spp., and Salmonella on broccoli, cantaloupe, and strawberries. Inoculated samples were treated with bacteriophage cocktails (BC) before storage at 10°C for 24 h, a levulinic acid produce wash (PW) after storage at 10°C for 24 h, or a combination of the washes (BCPW) before and after storage. All three treatments were compared against a 200-ppm free available chlorine wash. Wash solutions were prepared using potable water and water with an increased organic content of 2.5 g/liter total dissolved solids and total organic carbon. BCPW was the most effective treatment, producing the highest log reductions in the pathogens. Produce treated with BCPW in potable water with a PW exposure time of 5 min resulted in the highest reduction of each pathogen for all samples tested. The type of produce and wash solution had significant effects on the efficacy of the individual treatments. The chlorine wash in water with higher organic content was the least effective treatment tested. An additive effect of BCPW was seen in water with higher organic content, resulting in greater than 4.0-log reductions in pathogens. Our findings indicate that the combination of antimicrobial BC with a commercial produce wash is a very effective method for treating produce contaminated with E. coli O157:H7, Shigella spp., and Salmonella even in the presence of high loads of organic matter. 
Characteristics of Escherichia coli from raw vegetables at a retail market in the Czech Republic.	A large epidemic caused by shigatoxigenic Escherichia coli (E. coli) in spring 2011 in Germany resulted in reduction of trust in the health safety of raw vegetables and sprouted seeds. This study focused on the detection and characterization of E. coli in raw vegetables and sprouted seeds sold in the Czech Republic. Out of 91 samples, 24 (26.4%) were positive for the presence of E. coli. Resistance to antimicrobial agents was determined by the disk diffusion method and E-test. Polymerase chain reaction was used for the detection of selected genes encoding virulence--eaeA, hly, stx1, and stx2 and genes encoding resistance to tetracycline--tet(A), tet(B), tet(C), and tet(G) and to β-lactams--blaTEM, blaSHV, and blaCTX. The blaTEM gene was detected in two isolates, the tet(B) gene in three and tet(A) in one isolate. No hly, stx1, or stx2 genes were present, but the eaeA gene was found in three (11.1%) isolates from imported vegetables. These isolates can be considered as potentially enteropathogenic. Results of this study show that raw vegetables and sprouted seeds sold in the retail market can represent a potential risk for consumers.
Outbreak of Shiga toxin-producing E. coli O157 associated with consumption of watercress, United Kingdom, August to September 2013.	An increase in the number of cases of Shiga toxin-producing Escherichia coli O157 PT 2 stx2 infection was reported in the United Kingdom on 9 September 2013. Of the 19 cases, 13 were interviewed, of which 10 reported consuming watercress purchased from one retailer. The retailer recalled pre-packed bagged salads containing watercress on 12 September. The descriptive epidemiology was supported by a case–case study performed after control measures were implemented.
Prevalence and antibiotic resistance of Enterococcus spp. isolated from retail cheese, ready-to-eat salads, ham, and raw meat.	Food specimens were analyzed in order to research Enterococcus spp.: 636 samples of raw meat (227 beef, 238 poultry, and 171 pork), 278 samples of cheese (110 fresh soft cheese and 168 mozzarella cheese), 214 samples of ready-to-eat salads, and 187 samples of ham. 312 strains of Enterococcus spp samples were isolated, then identified and submitted to susceptibility tests against 11 antimicrobial agents. The predominant species were Enterococcus faecalis in raw meat and Enterococcus faecium in retail products. Low percentages of microorganisms were resistant to vancomycin (3.53%), teicoplanin (2.24%), linezolid (0.32%), and amoxicillin in combination with clavulanic acid (0.32%). A high percentage of resistance was noted in E. faecalis at high level gentamicin (21.9%) and tetracycline (60.6%). In general, strains of E. faecalis were more resistant than E. faecium. Enterococci should be considered not only potential pathogens, but also a reservoir of genes encoding antibiotic resistance which can be transferred to other microorganisms. Continuous monitoring of their incidence and emerging resistance is important in order to identify foods which potentially represent a real risk to the population, and to ensure effective treatment of human enterococcal infections. 
Outbreak of Shigella flexneri linked to salad prepared at a central commissary in Michigan.	In August 1992, the Michigan Department of Public Health was notified of a cluster of persons with Shigella flexneri infections, all of whom had eaten at different outlets of a single restaurant chain. The chain prepared many foods at a central kitchen. A matched case-control study to determine risk factors for illness among patrons of the restaurant chain was undertaken. An inspection of the commissary and a review of commissary inspection and employee records were conducted. Of the 46 patients identified, 44 had eaten tossed salad versus 33 of the 71 controls (matched odds ratio = 56.9; 95 percent confidence interval 5.0, 648.1). Improper salad preparation techniques were used, and the salad preparation area had not been inspected in several years. Some salad preparers had been ill shortly before the outbreak but continued to work. The greater use of central kitchens could lead to larger outbreaks of illness related to improper food handling. Raw vegetables are a potential vehicle for transmission of shigellosis. Coordination of all agencies responsible for inspecting commissaries should be assured. Assuring restriction of ill food handlers will require management to take an active role in identification of ill employees and in the development of incentives to report illness.
Origin and identification of bacteria which produce kairomones in the frass of Acrolepiopsis assectella (Lep., Hyponomeutoidea).	The volatiles used by the parasitoid Diadromus pulchellus to find its host, the leek moth, are produced by the bacteria developing in the frass of the host larvae. The origin and the nature of these bacteria were investigated. Samples were taken from healthy leeks and from infested leeks in the field, as well as from the frass of larvae reared in the laboratory either on the host plant or on an artificial diet. The various species of bacteria identified were cultured in the presence of precursors of leek sulphur volatiles and their volatile emissions were analysed. Klebsiella oxytoca and various Bacillus, common decomposers of plant matter, were the principal species producing active volatiles which were alkyl disulphides.
Structural features unique to a new 405-nucleotide satellite RNA of cucumber mosaic virus inducing tomato necrosis.	The complete nucleotide sequence of a new satellite RNA (KN-satRNA) of cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) strain KN, isolated from tomato plants showing severe necrosis, has been determined by the analysis of a full-length cDNA clone from which biologically active transcript was produced. KN-satRNA was 405 nucleotides and is the largest among the known CMV-satRNAs. Comparison of the sequence with D-CARNA5 (335 nucleotides) revealed three extensive homologous regions, which were the 5' region (position 1-80), the 3' half (position 213-405), and a middle section (position 116-177) of the molecule. The total length of the three regions covers almost the entire molecule of D-CARNA5. Thus, it is apparent that insertions would occur at two sites of D-CARNA5, positions 81-86 and 146, to evolve the larger size satRNA. These insertions did not alter the proposed secondary structure model of Q-satRNA. The in vitro transcript of the cDNA clone of KN-satRNA induced necrosis on tomato which was identical to that of native KN-satRNA. The 3'half of the RNA contained the "necrogenic consensus" sequence reported for other satRNAs, to which the pathogenicity of KN-satRNA may be attributed.
Agrobacterium-mediated inoculation of PSTVd cDNAs onto tomato reveals the biological effect of apparently lethal mutations.	Potato spindle tuber viroid (PSTVd) mutants which contain alterations in the terminal loops of the rod-like native structure have previously been reported from our laboratory. PSTVd-P contains mutations at positions 2, 4, and 6 in the left terminal loop; PSTVd-R+, a sequence permutation of PSTVd-R, contains the same mutations at positions 177 and 178 in the right terminal loop as PSTVd-R and contains in addition a 1-nucleotide G insertion at position 176. PSTVd-P, PSTVd-R, and PSTV-R+ were noninfectious when either cDNA or SP6-generated RNA transcripts were used as inoculum onto tomato cotyledons. In the current study, mutant and wild-type PSTVd constructs were mobilized into Agrobacterium tumefaciens and used for stem inoculation of tomato plants. Agrobacterium-mediated inoculation of the mutant and wild-type constructs has confirmed the inability of the PSTVd-P mutant to establish an infection. The PSTV-R+ mutant and/or sequence variants derived in vivo can establish an infection, although PSTVd-R+ progeny and replicative intermediates appear to be primarily restricted to the gall and root tissues of the plant and only occasionally are progeny detectable in the newly developing leaves. The reduced level of viroid accumulation from the PSTVd-R+ mutant appears to be consistent with the mutant viroid replicating/accumulating only in a limited number of cells or cell types. The mutations in the right terminal loop may alter interactions with specific host components and thereby disrupt the normal pattern of intercellular transport of the viroid or limit its replication to a cell type but not abolish replication per se.
Salmonella and the international food trade.	Non-typhoid Salmonella spp. continue to figure prominently in many national epidemiological registries as the leading cause of bacterial foodborne disease. Although Salmonella enterocolitis is generally a self-limiting illness that may require fluid and electrolyte replacement, the disease can spread systemically and degenerate into a chronic condition such as reactive arthritis, osteomyelitis, cardiac inflammation or neural disorders. Ampicillin, chloramphenicol and trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole have provided the mainstay of therapy for the clinical management of bacteremic salmonellosis. However, the increasing occurrence of strains that are resistant to one or more of these traditional antibacterial drugs has resulted in the wider use of quinolones for the treatment of Salmonella septicaemia. Successful clinical results with these newer drugs are already being overshadowed by the emergence of salmonellae that are resistant to these therapeutic agents. A rapidly growing international trade in agricultural, aquacultural and manufactured food products has greatly facilitated the introduction of new Salmonella serovars within the geographical boundaries of importing countries. This paper reviews the prevalence of Salmonella in selected food types that are subject to the import-export market and attendant epidemiological overtones. More specifically, the importance of fresh fruits and vegetables, spices, cheese, and aquacultural products as vehicles of human infection will be underlined. The potential impact of the widespread use of antibiotics of importance in human medicine in the aquaculture industry will also be discussed. The ubiquitous distribution of Salmonella in the natural environment and its prevalence in the global food chain, the physiological adaptability and virulence of this important human bacterial pathogen, and its potentially serious economic impact on the food industry predicate the need for continued vigilance and stringent controls at all levels of food production.
Genomic organization of lettuce necrotic yellows rhabdovirus.	We have mapped the genome of lettuce necrotic yellows virus (LNYV), the type member of the genus cytorhabdovirus of the family Rhabdoviridae. We have cloned and sequenced all intergenic regions and the 3' leader and 5' trailer of the negative-sense, single-stranded RNA genome of LNYV. The LNYV genome appears to contain six genes, the five expected genes coding for the virion proteins, and a sixth gene of unknown function, as for sonchus yellow net virus (SYNV), a member of the genus nucleorhabdovirus. The proposed LNYV genomic map is 3'-N-4a-4b-M-G-L-5', where N is the nucleocapsid protein gene; 4a and 4b are two genes, one of which codes for the proposed phosphoprotein P and the other for a putative protein of unknown function; M is the proposed matrix protein gene; G is the proposed glycoprotein gene; and L is the proposed transcriptase gene. The different LNYV intergenic regions have highly conserved consensus sequences, which could be divided into three components: the sequences corresponding to the 3' end of the mRNAs, intergenic sequences of variable length, and the sequences corresponding to the 5' end of the mRNAs. A leader sequence of 84 nucleotides (nt) at the 3' end of the LNYV genomic RNA preceeded the N gene. A trailer sequence of 187 nt at the 5' end of the genomic RNA followed the L gene. A comparison between LNYV leader and trailer sequences revealed complementary 3' and 5' ends, which could give rise to a putative "panhandle" structure with a two bases overhang in the leader sequence. We have compared these sequences to the corresponding sequences of SYNV as well as to vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) and rabies virus (RV), the type members of the vesiculovirus and lyssavirus genera, respectively, of animal rhabdoviruses. Homologies were found in the intergenic regions between LNYV, SYNV, VSV, and RV, at the 3' ends of the mRNAs. LNYV intergenic sequences were of variable lengths, as were those found in RV. The consensus sequences found at the 5' ends of LNYV mRNAs differed from the highly conserved consensus transcription start sequence UUGU/A found in SYNV, VSV, and RV. Conserved sequences were also found in the first 30 nt of the leader and the last 30 nt of the trailer, between LNYV, SYNV, VSV, and RV.
Recombinant beet curly top virus genomes exhibit both parental and novel pathogenic phenotypes.	Recombinant genomes derived from the Logan and CFH strains of the geminivirus beet curly top virus (BCTV) have been constructed and analyzed for pathogenicity on Nicotiana benthamiana and sugar beet (Beta vulgaris L.). Infectivity assays indicated that the latent period on N. benthamiana was primarily determined by a DNA fragment bearing the leftward open reading frames (ORFs) L1, L2, L3, and L4. Recombinants bearing leftward ORFs from the CFH strain were characterized as having a short latent period (mean = 6-11 days), while the reciprocal recombinants bearing leftward ORFs from the Logan strain had latent periods defined as long (mean = 16-22 days). Infectivity assays on sugar beet indicated that certain recombinant BCTV genomes exhibited novel pathogenic properties not common to either wild type strain, including the loss of systemic movement and replication competency, or asymptomatic systemic infection of sugar beet. The results indicate that N. benthamiana is a more permissive host than sugar beet with respect to heterologous combinations of BCTV genes, and that pathogenicity and virulence of BCTV in sugar beet requires the interaction of certain viral gene products and/or cis-elements that have coevolved in the same strain.
Replication of the DNA A component of African cassava mosaic virus in a heterologous system.	The capacity for autonomous replication of the DNA A of African cassava mosaic virus (ACMV), a member of the bipartite geminiviruses infecting dicotyledonous plants, has been compared in host and non-host cells. A derivative of the ACMV DNA A was transfected into tobacco and maize protoplasts. Although ACMV is not able to infect maize, replication of the DNA A in maize protoplasts was observed to occur. The efficiency of replication was 10 to 20% of that seen in tobacco protoplasts. In both plant systems, replication was detected after the onset of cell division. ACMV replication in maize cells was compared to that of wheat dwarf virus and found to be 10 to 20% of that observed with the monocotyledon-specific virus. Insertion of 1165 bp of non-viral DNA into the ACMV DNA A prevented replication in maize but not in tobacco.
Mutations in zucchini yellow mosaic virus helper component protein associated with loss of aphid transmissibility.	Zucchini yellow mosaic virus (ZYMV) is a potyvirus transmitted by aphids in a non-persistent manner. Isolates having partially or totally lost their ability to be transmitted by aphids have been isolated and found to be affected in their helper component activities. We have sequenced the helper component coding region of poorly aphid-transmissible (PAT) variants of two strains of ZYMV, E15 and R5A. Mutations have been identified at the nucleotide level leading to two amino acid changes in the E15 PAT variant helper component and to one amino acid change located in the cysteine-rich region (well-conserved among potyviruses) in R5A PAT variant helper component. The mutation in the R5A variant changes the same amino acid as the one identified in potato virus C, a non-transmissible strain of potato virus Y.
Evaluation and control of worker exposure to fungi in a beet sugar refinery.	A study of worker exposure to airborne fungi was undertaken in a sugar beet refinery to evaluate the level of exposure and to determine if controls could be implemented that would lower these exposures. A previous study at this refinery identified one worker who reacted on challenge testing to the moldy but not the fresh sugar beet pulp, had specific Immunoglobulin G to Aspergillus niger, and specific Immunoglobulin E to Aspergillus. Also, two employees were diagnosed with occupational asthma. In the study reported here, two field surveys were conducted, the first during the sugar production campaign (January) and the second during postproduction cleanup and maintenance (June). Approximately 65 personal and area air samples were collected on polycarbonate filters and the culturable fungal spores were identified and enumerated. This study showed high exposure of pellet loaders and pellet silo workers to various species of Aspergillus. Other fungal species that might pose a health hazard were detected. Exposures to fungi during the postproduction cleanup and maintenance phase were much higher than those measured during the production campaign. Engineering controls that would reduce employee exposure are discussed.
Cloning and characterization of a melanin biosynthetic THR1 reductase gene essential for appressorial penetration of Colletotrichum lagenarium.	Melanin biosynthesis of Colletotrichum lagenarium is essential for appressorial penetration of the host plant. A melanin deficient mutant 9141 (Thr-) has a defect in the conversion of 1,3,8-trihydroxynaphthalene to vermelone in the melanin biosynthetic pathway. The mutant formed nonmelanized appressoria and had little infectivity on cucumber leaves. A cosmid clone pCR1 was selected from a cosmid library of wild-type C. lagenarium by means of a heterologous probe BRM2, one of the clustered genes involved in melanin biosynthesis of Alternaria alternata. pCR1 transformed the Thr- mutant 9141 to wild-type phenotype. A DNA fragment (THR1) homologous to BRM2 was subcloned from pCR1 and the nucleotide sequence determined. THR1 contains one open reading frame that encodes a protein of 282 amino acids. A transformant resulting from gene disruption showed a light brown phenotype different from the dark brown phenotype of the wild-type 104-T. The transformant formed nonmelanized appressoria and had little infectivity. The THR1 amino acid sequence contains a region highly similar to the Ver1 gene involved in the conversion of versicolorin A to sterigmatocystin in aflatoxin biosynthesis by Aspergillus parasiticus and to the T4HN reductase gene involved in the conversion of 1,3,6,8-tetrahydroxynaphthalene to scytalone and 1,3,8-trihydroxynaphthalene to vermelone in melanin biosynthesis by Magnaporthe grisea. Expression of the THR1 gene during spore germination of C. lagenarium was detected by RNA blotting. We propose that the C. lagenarium THR1 gene encodes a reductase involved in conversion of 1,3,8-trihydroxynaphthalene to vermelone.
Influence of pH on heat resistance of Bacillus licheniformis in buffer and homogenised foods.	The influence of pH of heating menstruum (McIlvaine buffer) on the heat resistance of Bacillus licheniformis was investigated and compared with the heat resistance in homogenised tomato and asparagus at pH 7 and 4 in a wide range of temperatures. Heat resistance was in all mestrua smaller at acid pH. At 99 degrees C and pH 4, heat resistance was 1/20 lower than at pH 7. However, the magnitude of this effect decreased as heat treatment temperatures were increased almost disappearing at 120 degrees C. z values increased from 6.85 at pH 7, to 10.75 at pH 4. At 99 degrees C the effect of pH on heat resistance was constant along the range of pH's tested. The increase of one pH unit increased D99 by 180%. At pH 7 and 4, heat resistance was the same in buffer as in tomato and asparagus homogenates at all temperatures tested. The diminishing influence of the acidification of some foods on the heat resistance of B. licheniformis sterilisation temperatures should be taken into account when a raise in temperature is considered to shorten the duration of heat processes.
Polymerase chain reaction for rapid detection of Campylobacter jejuni in artificially contaminated foods.	Campylobacter jejuni was inoculated into a range of raw and ready-to-eat foods. These food samples were used as a test source for detection of this bacterium by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Specific detection of Camp. jejuni, as indicated by a PCR product of 159 bp, was possible with all pre-cooked deli-sliced and raw poultry products tested. All vegetables tested were compatible with the PCR assay. Cantaloupe, kiwi and pineapple tested positive while strawberries, watermelon, grapes and apples tested negative. By using a nested PCR assay that yields a single band at 122 bp, positive results were obtained with watermelon and grapes while the apple and strawberries continued to give a negative reaction. These rapid and specific assays for Camp. jejuni are compatible with most foods in insuring the safety of the food product.
