Assessing potential dietary toxicity of heavy metals in selected vegetables and food crops.	Heavy metals, such as cadmium, copper, lead, chromium and mercury, are important environmental pollutants, particularly in areas with high anthropogenic pressure. Their presence in the atmosphere, soil and water, even in traces can cause serious problems to all organisms, and heavy metal bioaccumulation in the food chain especially can be highly dangerous to human health. Heavy metals enter the human body mainly through two routes namely: inhalation and ingestion, ingestion being the main route of exposure to these elements in human population. Heavy metals intake by human populations through food chain has been reported in many countries. Soil threshold for heavy metal toxicity is an important factor affecting soil environmental capacity of heavy metal and determines heavy metal cumulative loading limits. For soil-plant system, heavy metal toxicity threshold is the highest permissible content in the soil (total or bioavailable concentration) that does not pose any phytotoxic effects or heavy metals in the edible parts of the crops does not exceed food hygiene standards. Factors affecting the thresholds of dietary toxicity of heavy metal in soil-crop system include: soil type which includes soil pH, organic matter content, clay mineral and other soil chemical and biochemical properties; and crop species or cultivars regulated by genetic basis for heavy metal transport and accumulation in plants. In addition, the interactions of soil-plant root-microbes play important roles in regulating heavy metal movement from soil to the edible parts of crops. Agronomic practices such as fertilizer and water managements as well as crop rotation system can affect bioavailability and crop accumulation of heavy metals, thus influencing the thresholds for assessing dietary toxicity of heavy metals in the food chain. This paper reviews the phytotoxic effects and bioaccumulation of heavy metals in vegetables and food crops and assesses soil heavy metal thresholds for potential dietary toxicity.
Composting of waste paint sludge containing melamine resin and the compost's effect on vegetable growth and soil water quality.	Melamine resin (MR) is introduced to the environment from many industrial effluents, including waste paint sludge (WPS) from the automobile industry. Melamine resin contains a high nitrogen (N) content and is a potential N source during composting. In this study, two carbon sources, waste paper (WP) and plant residue (PR), were used to study their effects on composting of WPS. Additional work tested the WPS-composts effects on plant growth and soil water quality. After 84 days of composting, 85% and 54% of the initial MR was degraded in WP- and PR-composts, respectively. The limiting factor was that the MR created clumps during composting so that decomposition was slowed. Compared to the untreated control, both WP- and PR-composts increased growth of cucumber (Cucumis sativus), radish (Raphanus sativus) and lettuce (Lactuca sativa). Concentrations of trace elements in plants and soil water did not rise to a level that would preclude WPS-composts from being used as a soil amendment.
Vegetable and fermented vegetable juices containing germinated seeds and sprouts of lentil and cowpea.	Health-promoting effects of vegetable juice (VJ) and fermented vegetable juice (FVJ) were determined. Both juices displayed antioxidant activity against DPPH radical, and ORAC values obtained for both juices were not statistically different. The α-glucosidase inhibitory activities of the VJ and FVJ were not different. However, α-amylase inhibitory effect of the VJ (IC50: 41μM) was higher than that of FVJ (IC50: 149μM) (p<0.05). In vitro bile acid-binding capacity of FVJ was about 4.30times higher than that of VJ (p<0.05). Although in vitro ACE inhibitory activity of VJ was below 50%, FVJ displayed ACE inhibition (80.2%) with an IC50 value of 50μgprotein/ml. Even though ACE inhibitory activities of digested and undigested FVJ were similar, there was a 42-fold decrease in the IC50 value of FVJ after small intestinal digestion (p<0.05). FVJ, diluted by one half, displayed hemagglutinating activity whilst VJ did not display any hemagglutinating activity. 
ent-kaurene biosynthesis is enhanced by long photoperiods in the long-day plants Spinacia oleracea L. and Agrostemma githago L.	The effect of photoperiod on ent-kaurene biosynthesis was determined in the long-day (LD) plants spinach (Spinacia oleracea L.) and Agrostemma githago L. Further metabolism of ent-kaurene was blocked by application of the growth retardant tetcyclacis, and ent-kaurene accumulation was measured by isotopic dilution using gas chromatography-selected ion monitoring (GC-SIM) (E. Grosselindemann, J.E. Graebe, D. Stöckl, P. Hedden [1991] Plant Physiol 96: 1099-1104). In spinach, the rate of ent-kaurene accumulation in shoots grown under LD conditions was 3 times higher than in shoots grown under short-day (SD) conditions. ent-Kaurene also accumulated in fully expanded leaves, but at a lower rate than in shoots (15 and 55 pmol g-1 dry weight h-1, respectively). In Agrostemma, ent-kaurene accumulated at a rate 2.5 times higher in plants grown under LD conditions than in those grown under SD conditions. In spinach, enhanced ent-kaurene accumulation was detectable after 1 long day, and with exposure to additional long days, the rate of ent-kaurene accumulation increased further. Conversely, when plants were exposed to LD conditions and then returned to SD conditions, the rate of ent-kaurene accumulation decreased. Following tetcyclacis application, ent-kaurene accumulation was observed in all parts of spinach that were analyzed, but there were large quantitative differences between organs of different ages. As the leaves matured, ent-kaurene biosynthesis declined. Petioles accumulated more ent-kaurene than the corresponding leaf blades. It is concluded that stimulation of ent-kaurene biosynthesis by LD conditions leads to a higher rate of gibberellin biosynthesis, which is essential for stem elongation in rosette plants.
Expression of DcPRP1 is linked to carrot storage root formation and is induced by wounding and auxin treatment.	A carrot (Daucus carota, L.) genomic clone (DcPRP1) was isolated on the basis of its homology to previously described cDNAs encoding a wound-inducible, proline-rich cell wall protein. DNA sequence analysis showed that DcPRP1 contains a single open-reading frame encoding a 235-amino acid protein that is colinear with that predicted from the cDNA sequence with the exception of four amino acids at the N terminus and a 60-nucleotide insertion present within the genomic clone. Genomic Southern hybridization analysis showed that the cloned sequence hybridized with a single restriction enzyme fragment using several restriction enzymes. Primer extension and northern hybridization analysis indicated that the expression of DcPRP1 is developmentally regulated and linked to the formation of storage roots, where this gene is expressed at high levels after wounding. The level of DcPRP1 mRNA was greatest in tissue immediately adjacent to the wound site. Treatment of unwounded carrot storage roots with 10 microM 2,4-dichlorophenoxy-acetic acid, indoleacetic acid, or naphthalene-1-acetic acid also resulted in the accumulation of DcPRP1 transcripts to a level equal to that seen in wounded tissue.
