Inhalation of diesel engine exhaust affects spermatogenesis in growing male rats.	We conducted experiments to determine whether diesel engine exhaust affects reproductive endocrine function in growing rats. The rats were assigned to three groups: a group exposed to total diesel engine exhaust containing 5.63 mg/m3 particulate matter, 4.10 ppm nitrogen dioxide, and 8.10 ppm nitrogen oxide; a group exposed to filtered exhaust without particulate matter; and a group exposed to clean air. Dosing experiments were performed for 3 months beginning at birth (6 hr/day for 5 days/week). Serum levels of testosterone and estradiol were significantly higher in animals exposed to total diesel exhaust and filtered exhaust (p < 0.05 for each group) as compared to the controls. Follicle-stimulating hormone was significantly decreased in the two groups exposed to diesel exhaust as compared to the control group (p < 0.05). Luteinizing hormone was significantly decreased in the total exhaust-exposed group as compared to the control and filtered groups (p < 0.05). Although testis weight did not show any significant difference among the groups, sperm production and activity of testicular hyaluronidase were significantly reduced in both exhaust-exposed groups as compared to the control group. Histological examination showed decreased numbers of step 18 and 19 spermatids in stage VI, VII, and VIII tubules in the testes of both diesel exhaust-exposed groups. This study suggests that diesel exhaust stimulates hormonal secretion of the adrenal cortex, depresses gonadotropin-releasing-hormone, and inhibits spermatogenesis in rats. Because these effects were not inhibited by filtration, the gaseous phase of the exhaust appears to be more responsible than particulate matter for disrupting the endocrine system.
The roles of diesel exhaust particle extracts and the promotive effects of NO2 and/or SO2 exposure on rat lung tumorigenesis.	This experiment was carried out to clarify the roles of diesel exhaust particle (DEP) extracts and the promotive effects of nitrogen dioxide (NO2) and/or sulfur dioxide (SO2) exposure on rat lung tumorigenesis. F344 male rats were intratracheally administered DEP extract-coated carbon black particles (DEcCBP) and exposed to 6 ppm NO2 and/or 4 ppm SO2 for 10 months. At 18 months after starting the experiment, lung lesions were histopathologically investigated and DNA in rat lungs was analyzed for the presence of adducts using the 32P-postlabeling assay. Infiltration of alveolar macrophages, which was significant in the lungs of rats administered carbon black particles, was not prominent in those administered DEcCBP. DEcCBP occasionally formed small hyaline masses in the alveolar ducts and alveolar bronchiolization developed in the epithelium of alveolar ducts near the masses. Lung tumorigenesis and DNA aduct formation were observed in the animals administered DEcCBP with exposure to NO2 and/or SO2, but not in those administered DEcCBP alone. The results of the present study suggested that DEP extracts eluting from the small masses cause DNA damage in alveolar epithelial cells and alveolar epithelial cell proliferation, and that NO2 and/or SO2 exposure promote lung tumor induction by DEP extracts.
Enhancement of collagen-induced arthritis in mice by diesel exhaust particles.	The present study was undertaken to investigate the effect of diesel exhaust particles (DEP) on collagen-induced arthritis (CIA), which is an experimental model of autoimmune disease, in mice. CIA was induced by s.c. injection of type II collagen (CII) emulsified with complete Freund's adjuvant into the base of the tail (day 0) followed by a booster injection on day 21. Varying doses of DEP were intranasally administered every 2 days from days 0 to 20. The results showed that administration of DEP enhanced both the incidence and the severity of CIA. The enhancement of the disease was associated with pronounced production of anti-CII IgG and IgG2a antibodies. Treatment with DEP also augmented proliferative responses of spleen cells to CII. There was marked secretion of interferon-gamma, interleukin (IL)-2, and IL-4 from the lymphoid cells in DEP-treated mice. Administration of DEP after onset of CIA was also effective in enhancing the severity of the disease as well as production of anti-CII IgG and IgG2a antibodies and secretion of interferon-gamma, IL-2, and IL-4. These results suggest that exposure to DEP may influence autoimmune disease.
Urban air pollution induces micronuclei in peripheral erythrocytes of mice in vivo.	In this study, we explored the role of chronic exposure to urban air pollution in causing DNA damage (micronuclei frequency in peripheral erythrocytes) in rodents in vivo. Mice (n=20) were exposed to the urban atmosphere of São Paulo for 120 days (February to June 1999) and compared to animals (n=20) maintained in the countryside (Atibaia) for the same period. Daily levels of inhalable particles (PM10), CO, NO(2), and SO(2), were available for São Paulo. Occasional measurements of CO and O(3) were made in Atibaia, showing negligible levels of pollution in the area. The frequency of micronuclei (repeated-measures ANOVA) increased with aging, the highest values obtained for the 90th day of experiment (P<0.001). The exposure to urban air pollution elicited a significant (P=0.016) increase of micronuclei frequency, with no significant interaction with time of study. Associations (Spearman's correlation) between pollution levels of the week that precede blood sampling and micronuclei counts were observed in São Paulo. The associations between micronuclei counts and air pollution were particularly strong for pollutants associated with automotive emissions, such as CO (P=0.037), NO(2) (P<0.001), and PM10 (P<0.001). Our results support the concept that urban levels of air pollution may cause somatic mutations.
In vitro relative toxicity screening of combined particulate and semivolatile organic fractions of gasoline and diesel engine emissions.	Engine technology modifications designed to reduce engine emissions are likely to alter the physicochemical characteristics of the emissions. These changes may alter the biological effects of the emissions, but these effects cannot currently be predicted from the physical and chemical properties. Rapid in vitro toxicity screening techniques to compare the biological effects of emission samples would be useful as preliminary guides to assess the relative health impact of modified technology. Here, we demonstrate that selected responses of cultured human lung epithelial cells and rat alveolar macrophages can discriminate among combined particulate matter (PM) and semivolatile organic compound (SVOO fractions of emissions collected from normal- and high-emitter, in-use gasoline and diesel vehicles. Macrophages were more susceptible to cytotoxicity than epithelial cells. Samples from gasoline vehicles (except a vehicle that produced visible white smoke) generally caused greater effects than the diesel engine samples. However, low concentrations of diesel emission samples were more potent stimulators of peroxide production than gasoline emission samples. The same rank order of potency applied to suppression of this response at high concentrations. A diesel PM fraction was much less toxic to both types of cells than the combined PM +SVOC fractions, consistent with a role for the SVOC fraction in cytotoxicity. However, the rank order of potency from the in vitro assays in general did not correspond with the previous rankings from in vivo comparisons of the same samples. Thus, while the in vitro assays may provide mechanistic information, revealing cell type-specific responses, they did not accurately reflect in vivo comparative toxicity in their current form.
In vivo electron spin resonance-computed tomography/nitroxyl probe technique for non-invasive analysis of oxidative injuries.	Free radicals are widely recognized as harmful chemical species in oxidative tissue injury. However, there have been no satisfying methods to visualize free radicals in vivo non-invasively with information of their localization and amount. In vivo electron spin resonance (ESR) spectroscopy was recently developed to measure free radicals generated in rodents. Several kinds of stable nitroxyl radicals were used as spin probes to detect free radicals. ESR signal intensities reflecting the accumulation of nitroxyl probes in each organ decreases time-dependently and reduction decay rates are increased in the presence of free radicals. Such increase in signal decay rates is suppressed by prior administration of antioxidants or antioxidant enzymes. Thus, in vivo ESR techniques are useful in estimating not only in vivo free radical reactions but also the effects of antioxidants, and furthermore, in combination with other tomographic techniques, permits non-invasive localization of free radicals. Application of this technique to animal models will be described.
DNA-adduct formation in lungs, nasal mucosa, and livers of rats exposed to urban roadside air in Kawasaki City, Japan.	The potency of ambient air for DNA-adduct formation was estimated using Wistar rats. The animals were maintained in a small-animal facility located beside a main highway intersection in Kawasaki City, Japan, for up to 60 weeks and were exposed to roadside air contaminated mainly with automobile emission (exposure group, EG) or to clean air (control group, CG). Compared to CG, the relative adduct levels (RAL) were increased significantly in EG lungs (17.1-fold (P<0.05)), nasal mucosa, and livers after exposure for 4 weeks. However, there were no significant differences in RAL between EG and CG after exposure for 12 weeks, but they were elevated again in EG after exposure for 48 or 60 weeks. These results suggest that roadside air in this region can cause the generation of DNA adducts. This activity of ambient roadside air can be estimated using experimental animals, indicating that biological monitoring of DNA-adduct formation may be a powerful tool to assess the effect of ambient air on human health.
Pulmonary function status of shopkeepers of Ahmedabad exposed to autoexhaust pollutants.	The study deals with evaluation of pulmonary function status (VC, FEV1% and FEF25-75%) in Ahmedabad shopkeepers stationed near different traffic junctions and relating them with the levels of oxides of nitrogen (NOx) near these junctions categorised as Heavy, Medium and Low polluted area junctions. The pulmonary function test (PFT) values of heavy polluted and medium polluted area shopkeepers is compared with low polluted area shopkeepers. The influence of smoking habits and duration of exposure over PFT values was seen. The prevalence of airway obstruction in shopkeepers was compared with USA population. The results indicated significant impairment in FEV1% and FEF25-75% value in high polluted area shopkeepers where NOx level is much higher than TLV value. In medium polluted area, where NOx level is slightly higher than TLV value, shopkeepers demonstrated significant impairment in FEF25-75%. Smoking is found to have an additive effect. A linear increase in the prevalence of pulmonary impairment with increasing duration of exposure was evidenced. Shopkeepers exhibited higher prevalence of impairment in both smokers and non-smokers than USA population attributing it to the effect of autoexhaust pollutants. This study also denoted that FEF25-75% is an early indicator of obstruction in smaller airways which is the primary site of deposition of inhaled pollutants.
Electron-microscopic observations on rat lungs after long term inhalation of diesel emissions--non-neoplastic lesions]	Non-neoplastic lesions in the respiratory organs of rats (F344) were investigated after exposure to heavy and light duty diesel emissions for 30 months. Pathological examinations of the lungs after every 6 months of exposure were performed by light and electron microscopy. Anthracosis caused by the inhaled diesel soot was the main morphological change observed in the lung. Foci of alveoli filled with alveolar macrophages engorged with diesel particles were scattered in the lung parenchyma. Marked changes observed in these areas consisted of intake of diesel particles by type 1 epithelium, hypertrophy and glandular proliferation of type 2 epithelium with many extended microvilli and increased number and size of lamellar inclusion bodies, focal increase of collagen fibers in the interstitium, and infiltration of particle-laden macrophages, neutrophils, mast cells and plasma cells into the interstitium of alveolar septa. Within the alveolar lumina there was marked accumulation of particle-laden macrophages or neutrophils and their debris, as well as laminated or scrolled materials discharged from the type 2 epithelium. The most marked changes observed in the airways were focal shortening of cilia and protrusions of non-ciliated cells, which were attributable mainly to the effects of gaseous components in the diesel exhaust. These morphological changes appeared in all the groups exposed to particle concentrations greater than 1 mg/m3 after 6 months' exposure, and were more marked with increase in particle concentration and with time.
The analysis of the joint effect of substances on reversion systems and the assessment of antimutagenicity.	The statistical methods for the analysis of mutagenicity and carcinogenicity underwent considerable theoretical-practical development following the need for assessing the mutagenic and carcinogenic potential of substances. Antimutagenicity is investigated through the analysis of respondents in dose-response assays, when two different molecules are administered separately and as a mixture to a respondent system. When the number of respondent units is high, and doses are orthogonal, it is possible to apply simple models such as analysis of variance. This is not always possible or common, and alternative approaches have been developed, based on multiple regression and on tables of proportions. In this work, some of the most frequently used methods for the assessment of joint responses are reviewed, particularly those based on multiple regression, such as the method of Shaeffer et al. and the method of Hass et al. In order to illustrate these methods, joint responses of perylene and cyclopentapyrene, of N-acetylcysteine and dinitropyrene, and of N-acetylcysteine and extracts from diesel exhausts were analyzed. An antagonistic effect of perylene on the action of CPP was detected by the algorithm of Shaeffer et al. The effect is not multiplicative, i.e., it is not proportional to the product of doses. The antimutagenic effect of N-acetylcysteine on dinitropyrene is multiplicative, as detected by the method of Hass et al. The latter reveals that the inhibition by N-acetylcysteine on the mutagenic effect of extracts from diesel exhausts is also multiplicative.
Microarray analysis of the effect of diesel exhaust particles on in vitro cultured macrophages.	Diesel exhaust particles (DEP) have been reported to induce or aggravate pulmonary diseases, including cancer and asthma. Alveolar macrophages are important cellular targets for DEP and have important immunological and inflammatory properties in the response to foreign substances in the lung. In vitro cultures of human THP-1 cells were differentiated to macrophages and were exposed to 1600 ng/ml DEP during 6 and 24 h. Global changes in gene expression were evaluated using cDNA microarrays containing about 13,000 cDNAs. Each gene on the microarray was present in duplicate. A colorflip experiment was also performed, resulting in four ratio measurements for each gene, that were used to evaluate significance of the gene expression findings. Gene expression changes were very modest (<3-fold induction/repression). Less than 1% of all genes were significantly regulated by DEP. Considering the 6 h exposure data, 50 clones were up- and 39 were downregulated. For the 24 h exposure data, there were 54 upregulated and 60 downregulated genes. Nine genes (CYP1B1, THBD, Il1b, ITGB7, SEC6, TNFRSF1B, LPXN, LOC51093 and BTG2) are upregulated and seven (PRDX1, CD36, PRKACB, BBOX1, CLK1, STMN1, and HMGB2) are downregulated at both time-points. Our data indicate the multitude of biological processes potentially influenced by DEP.
Bacterial mutagenicity of the three isomeric dicyclopenta-fused pyrenes: the effects of dicyclopenta topology.	Cyclopenta[cd]pyrene (1) and its congeners dicyclopenta[cd,mn]- (2), dicyclopenta[cd,fg]- (3), dicyclopenta[cd,jk]pyrene (4), which were all identified as constituents of combustion exhausts, as well as their partially hydrogenated derivatives 3,4-dihydrocyclopenta[cd]- (5), 1,2,4,5-tetrahydrodicyclopenta[cd,mn]- (6), 5,6,7,8-tetrahydrodicyclopenta[cd,fg]- (7) and 1,2,6,7-tetrahydrodicyclopenta[cd,jk]pyrene (8), were assayed for mutagenicity in the Salmonella typhimurium strain TA98 using different concentrations of microsomal protein in the metabolic activation system (S9-mix, with S9-fraction from liver of Aroclor-1254-treated rats: 2, 4 and 10% (v/v), respectively). Whereas a positive mutagenic response is found for 1-4 in the presence of S9-mix, 5-8 exert no mutagenicity either with or without S9-mix. Since for 1-4 the highest response is observed with S9-mix 2% (v/v) instead of the standard 4% (v/v), a one-step activation pathway, i.e. epoxidation of the five-membered ring olefinic bonds, appears to be operational. Surprisingly, 3 and, to a lesser extent, 2 (11.7 versus 4.2 His revertants/nmol) also give a positive response in the absence of S9-mix. Hence, 2 and 3 are expected to contribute to the direct-acting mutagenicity of the non-polar fraction of combustion exhausts. Presumably for the direct-acting mutagenicity one-electron transfer processes play a role in bioactivation. The experimental observations are supported by semi-empirical AM1 calculations on the possible ultimate metabolites, i.e. mono-epoxides (2a-4a), cis-di-epoxides (2b-4b) and trans-di-epoxides (2c-4c) and the related mono-hydroxy carbocations (2d-4d and 2e-4e), and the radical anions 1*(-)-4*(-).
Antiestrogenic effects of motorcycle exhaust particulate in MCF-7 human breast cancer cells and immature female rats.	The emissions from 2- and 4-stroke motorcycles pollute the air of urban areas where motorcycle is a popular means of transportation. This study aimed to determine the endocrine-disrupting activity of motorcycle exhaust particulate (MEP) using MCF-7 human breast cancer cells and immature female Wistar rats treated with organic extracts of MEP. Treatments with 1, 10, and 50 microg/ml MEP extract for 2 and 4 days produced dose-dependent inhibition of thymidine incorporation and cell growth, respectively, in untreated and 1 nM 17beta-estradiol (E2)-treated cells. Treatments of MCF-7 cells with MEP extract replaced [3H]E2 from the estrogen receptor in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. These antiestrogenic and receptor binding properties of MEP extract were blocked by cotreatment of the cells with 2 microM alpha-naphthoflavone, a cytochrome P450 inhibitor and aryl hydrocarbon receptor antagonist. E2 metabolism and HPLC analysis showed that treatment of MCF-7 cells with 50 microg/ml MEP extract for 24 h increased E2 2- and 4-hydroxylation in microsomes. The MEP-mediated increase in E2 2-hydroxylation was inhibited by the addition of 1 microM alpha-naphthoflavone to MCF-7 microsomes. Cotreatment of immature female rats with 10 microg/kg E2 and 10 mg/kg MEP extract intraperitoneally for 3 days decreased the E2-induced uterine weights. MEP extract alone showed no effect on rat uterine weight. The endocrine-disrupting activity of MEP extract was further confirmed in parallel experiments using MCF-7 cells and immature female rats treated with benzo(a)pyrene, an MEP constituent compound. The present findings demonstrate that MEP extract is antiestrogenic in vitro and in vivo and cytochrome P450 induction is an underlying mechanism.
Components of diesel exhaust particles differentially affect lung expression of cyclooxygenase-2 related to bacterial endotoxin.	We have reported previously that components of diesel exhaust particles (DEP) differently affect acute lung injury related to lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in mice. This study examined the effects of components of DEP on the lung expression of cyclooxygenase (COX)-1 and -2 in the presence or absence of LPS. ICR mice were divided into six experimental groups that received vehicle, LPS (2.5 mg kg(-1)), organic chemicals in DEP (DEP-OC) extracted with dichloromethane (4 mg kg(-1)), residual carbonaceous nuclei after the extraction (washed DEP: 4 mg kg(-1)), DEP-OC (4 mg kg(-1)) + LPS (2.5 mg kg(-1)) or washed DEP (4 mg kg(-1)) + LPS (2.5 mg kg(-1)) intratracheally. The expression of mRNA for both COXs in the lung was evaluated 4 h after the intratracheal administration. The magnitude of COX-1 mRNA expression was not altered in each group. The LPS treatment enhanced the COX-2 gene expression compared with vehicle treatment. Washed DEP combined with LPS further increased its expression compared with LPS alone. In contrast, combined treatment of DEP-OC with LPS decreased COX-2 gene expression compared with LPS alone. These results suggest that the residual carbonaceous nuclei of DEP predominantly enhance lung expression of COX-2 rather than the extracted organic chemicals from DEP in the presence of LPS, which is concomitant with the magnitude of acute lung injury in our previous study.
In vitro genotoxicity of exhaust emissions of diesel and gasoline engine vehicles operated on a unified driving cycle.	Acetone extracts of engine exhaust particulate matter (PM) and of vapor-phase semi-volatile organic compounds (SVOCs) collected from a set of 1998-2000 model year normal emitter diesel engine automobile or light trucks and from a set of 1982-1996 normal emitter gasoline engine automobiles or light trucks operated on the California Unified Driving Cycle at 22 [degree]C were assayed for in vitro genotoxic activities. Gasoline and diesel PM were comparably positive mutagens for Salmonella typhimurium strains YG1024 and YG1029 on a mass of PM extract basis with diesel higher on a mileage basis; gasoline SVOC was more active than diesel on an extracted-mass basis, with diesel SVOC more active on a mileage basis. For chromosomal damage indicated by micronucleus induction in Chinese hamster lung fibroblasts (V79 cells), diesel PM expressed about one-tenth that of gasoline PM on a mass of extract basis, but was comparably active on a mileage basis; diesel SVOC was inactive. For DNA damage in V79 cells indicated by the single cell gel electrophoresis (SCGE) assay, gasoline PM was positive while diesel PM was active at the higher doses; gasoline SVOC was active with toxicity preventing measurement at high doses, while diesel SVOC was inactive at all but the highest dose.
Nitrotyrosine-modified proteins and oxidative stress induced by diesel exhaust particles.	Protein tyrosine nitration is a post-translational modification that occurs under conditions of oxidative stress and may play a role in the pathogenesis of diseases such as asthma. Through their ability to generate reactive oxygen species in macrophages and epithelial cells, particulate pollutants, such as diesel exhaust particles (DEPs), may lead to a worsening of the asthmatic condition. In this study, we looked for evidence of oxidative modification of proteins in RAW 264.7 cell line treated with DEP chemicals. We show that the induction of oxidative stress is accompanied by 53 newly expressed proteins which are suppressed by a thiol antioxidant, N-acetylcysteine. These include antioxidant enzymes, pro-inflammatory components, and products of intermediary metabolism. In addition, inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) was identified as a biologically relevant oxidative stress protein that is induced concurrent with increased NO production and protein tyrosine-nitration in DEP-exposed RAW 264.7 cells. Utilizing two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, anti-nitrotyrosine immunoblotting, and mass spectrometry led to the identification of an additional ten nitrotyrosine modified proteins, including oxidative stress proteins involved in intermediary metabolism (e.g., GAPDH and enolase), antioxidant defense (e.g., MnSOD) and inhibition of proteosomal activity (e.g., Hsp 90alpha). These oxidative proteins may serve as markers for oxidative stress generation in vivo.
9,10-Phenanthraquinone in diesel exhaust particles downregulates Cu,Zn-SOD and HO-1 in human pulmonary epithelial cells: intracellular iron scavenger 1,10-phenanthroline affords protection against apoptosis.	9,10-Phenanthraquinone (PQ), a major quinone contained in diesel exhaust particles and atmospheric PM(2.5), undergoes one-electron reduction by flavin enzymes such as NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase, leading to production of reactive oxygen species in vitro. We have detected an ESR signal for superoxide (O(2)(-)) and hydroxyl radicals ((.)OH) by the spin trap method when PQ was mixed with P450 reductase, NADPH, and iron(III). When we examined the effects of PQ on A549 human pulmonary epithelial cells, PQ induced apoptosis with a LC(50) of approximately 7 microM. Formation of protein carbonyls was also detected in cells after treatment with PQ, suggesting that PQ induces oxidative damage. Iron chelators such as 1,10-phenanthroline (OP), desferrioxamine mesylate, and deferiprone respectively afforded protection against the toxic effects of PQ. Furthermore, treatment of A549 cells with 10-20 microM PQ for 12 h specifically down-regulated protein levels of Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase (Cu,Zn-SOD) and heme oxygenase-1 (HO-1) by more than 50%. Pretreatment of cells with OP (10 microM) markedly reduced the down-regulation of Cu,Zn-SOD and HO-1 and protein carbonyl formation in response to PQ. The inhibitor of Cu,Zn-SOD, diethyldithiocarbamate, enhanced the toxic effects of 5 microM PQ. The present findings suggest that PQ causes iron-mediated oxidative damage that is exacerbated by the concomitant down-regulation of Cu,Zn-SOD.
Study on the genotoxicity of exhausts of diesel engine with ethanol-diesel blending fuel]	To study the genotoxicity of components of diesel engine exhausts with ethanol-diesel blending fuel. To provide scientific arguments to find more economical and less polluted fuels.
Use of a fluorescent phosphoprotein dye to characterize oxidative stress-induced signaling pathway components in macrophage and epithelial cultures exposed to diesel exhaust particle chemicals.	A large body of evidence has shown that exposure to ambient particulate matter (PM) leads to asthma exacerbation through an excitation of allergic inflammation. Utilizing diesel exhaust particles (DEPs) as a model air pollutant, we and others have demonstrated that PM contains redox-active chemicals that generate inflammation through an oxidative stress mechanism. Recently, the strengths of proteomics have enabled us to demonstrate that organic DEP extracts induce a hierarchical expression pattern of oxidative stress-induced proteins in macrophages and epithelial cells. As a further extension of this work, we now employ a new phosphosensor fluorescent dye, Pro-Q Diamond, to elucidate the induction of phosphoproteins and intracellular signaling cascades that may play a role in DEP-induced inflammation. We demonstrate that DEPs induced the phosphorylation of several phosphoproteins that belong to a number of signaling pathways as well as other oxidative stress pathways. In combination with cytokine array, phosphoproteome analysis using Pro-Q Diamond allowed us to characterize the aromatic and polar chemicals of DEPs that are involved in the activation of three different mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase signaling pathways.
Neurogenic responses in rat lungs after nose-only exposure to diesel exhaust.	Using an in-line, real-time, in vivo exposure system, we investigated whether acute adverse effects of diesel exhaust (DE*) exposure involve neurogenic inflammation in the lungs via sensory nerve C fibers. A total of 168 female F344 rats (175 g, 8 weeks old) were randomly assigned to pretreatment with capsaicin or saline to deplete C-fiber neurotransmitters. In a 2 x 3 factorial design, groups of animals were then exposed nose-only to a low level of DE (LDE, 35.3 microg/m3), a high level of DE (HDE, 632.9 microg/m3), or side-stream cigarette smoke (CS, 0.4 mg/m3). Two control groups were exposed whole body to filtered air in the animal room (fRA) or unfiltered air in the diesel engine room (eRA), respectively. DE was taken directly from a heavy-duty Cummins N14 research engine operated at 75% throttle (California Air Resources Board [CARB] 8, mode 6). Exposure to DE or air was 4 hours/day, 5 days/week, for 3 weeks. Exposure to CS was for 4 hours/day for 7 days. Involvement of neurogenic inflammation in the response to DE or CS was assessed via comparison of plasma extravasation, a sensitive endpoint of neurogenic inflammation, between rats with and without capsaicin pretreatment. Lung injury was assessed via analysis of proinflammatory cytokines, respiratory permeability, and histopathology. Moreover, whether DE exposure affected the molecular mechanisms of neurogenic inflammation was analyzed through quantification of substance P (SP) and its primary neurokinin-1 (NK1) receptor at the gene and protein levels and through neutral endopeptidase (NEP) activity. DE and CS exposure induced dose-dependent plasma extravasation, which may play an important role in initiating the associated lung inflammation and injury. Exposure of rats to DE affected the SP signaling pathway as indicated by overexpression of the NK1 receptor or reduction of SP in the lung tissue. DE exposure consistently inactivated tissue NEP, a key factor that switches neurogenic inflammation from its physiological and protective functions to a role that increases and perpetuates lung injury. The roles of these overlapping neurokininergic mechanisms in the initiation of DE-associated lung injury are plausible, and these changes may contribute to DE-associated respiratory disorders. Capsaicin rats followed the same trends as those of saline animals when exposed to DE or CS: capsaicin rats did not have significantly different plasma extravasation in the airways or lung parenchyma compared to their corresponding controls. Histopathology evaluation likewise demonstrated the same degree of tissue changes, such as edema and alveolar macrophage collection, in capsaicin and saline rats after the same level of DE exposure. In summary, our data suggest that neurokininergic mechanisms may have been involved in DE-induced inflammatory conditions in rat lung but that C fibers did not appear to be involved under these exposure conditions. We believe that time-course or protein knockdown/knockout animal studies are required to characterize further the role of neurokininergic mechanisms in DE-induced lung injury.
Traffic related air pollution as a determinant of asthma among Taiwanese school children.	There is evidence that long term exposure to ambient air pollution increases the risk of childhood asthma, but the role of different sources and components needs further elaboration. To assess the effect of air pollutants on the risk of asthma among school children, a nationwide cross sectional study of 32 672 Taiwanese school children was conducted in 2001.
Socioeconomic and racial disparities in cancer risk from air toxics in Maryland.	We linked risk estimates from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency's National Air Toxics Assessment (NATA) to racial and socioeconomic characteristics of census tracts in Maryland (2000 Census) to evaluate disparities in estimated cancer risk from exposure to air toxics by emission source category. In Maryland, the average estimated cancer risk across census tracts was highest from on-road sources (50% of total risk from nonbackground sources), followed by nonroad (25%), area (23%), and major sources (< 1%). Census tracts in the highest quartile defined by the fraction of African-American residents were three times more likely to be high risk (> 90th percentile of risk) than those in the lowest quartile (95% confidence interval, 2.0-5.0). Conversely, risk decreased as the proportion of whites increased (p < 0.001). Census tracts in the lowest quartile of socioeconomic position, as measured by various indicators, were 10-100 times more likely to be high risk than those in the highest quartile. We observed substantial risk disparities for on-road, area, and nonroad sources by socioeconomic measure and on-road and area sources by race. There was considerably less evidence of risk disparities from major source emissions. We found a statistically significant interaction between race and income, suggesting a stronger relationship between race and risk at lower incomes. This research demonstrates the utility of NATA for assessing regional environmental justice, identifies an environmental justice concern in Maryland, and suggests that on-road sources may be appropriate targets for policies intended to reduce the disproportionate environmental health burden among economically disadvantaged and minority populations.
Suicide by carbon monoxide from car exhaust-gas in Denmark 1995-1999.	In the period 1995-1999 there were 388 car exhaust-gas suicides in Denmark. Of these 343 (88.4%) were men and 45 (11.6%) were women, the average age being 47 years. The car exhaust-gas suicides made up 9.3% of all suicides in Denmark in the period. The corresponding rate was 11.7% for men and 3.7% for women. In rural areas a larger part of all suicides were committed with car exhaust-gas compared to the more densely populated areas. Mental disease was diagnosed in 124 (32.0%) cases. A suicide note was found in 165 (42.5%) cases. A hose was fitted to the exhaust pipe in 334 (86.1%) cases. Of these the 234 (60.3%) occurred outside, typically in a forest area, while 76 (19.6%) occurred in a closed garage. All the 54 (13.9%) cases with no hose fitted to the exhaust pipe occurred in a garage. Seven (1.8%) victims were found in a burning or burnt-out car, where the following investigation revealed that it was actually a car exhaust-gas suicide. Carboxyhemoglobin was measured in 26 (6.7%) victims. In two of these victims no carboxyhemoglobin was found, as they had survived for some time after the poisoning. The average saturation of the remaining victims was 67%, the lowest saturation being 20% and the highest being 84%. In the period 1969-1987 the number of car exhaust-gas suicides in Denmark increased from 50 to approximately 190 per year and the rate of car exhaust-gas suicides compared to all suicides increased from approximately 5% to approximately 13%. In 1987-1999 these figures decreased from approximately 190 to 63 per year and from 13% to approximately 8%. During these 30 years the number of passenger cars in Denmark doubled, which explains the increase in car exhaust-gas suicides during 1969-1987. A possible explanation for the decrease in 1987-1999 is the introduction of the catalytic converter, which was made mandatory in 1990. We anticipate that car exhaust-gas suicides will continue to decrease in numbers, as more cars are equipped with catalytic converters.
Anti-androgenic activity of 3-methyl-4-nitrophenol in diesel exhaust particles.	In our continuing studies on nitrophenol derivatives as vasodilators in diesel exhaust particles, we have reported that nitrophenols in diesel exhaust particles possess not only vasodilatory activity but also estrogenic activity in vitro and in vivo, as well as anti-androgenic activity in vitro. Our efforts here were focused on the in vitro and in vivo anti-androgenic activity of 3-methyl-4-nitrophenol (4-nitro-m-cresol; PNMC), known a degradation product of the insecticide fenitrothion, in diesel exhaust particles. We investigated its anti-androgenic activity using an in vitro recombinant yeast screen and in vivo Hershberger assays. Recombinant yeast screen assay showed that PNMC possesses anti-androgenic activity at low concentrations. Furthermore, castrated 28-day-old immature male rats each implanted with a 5-mm-long silastic tube containing crystalline testosterone and injected with PNMC subcutaneously at doses from as low as 0.01 and 0.1 mg/kg up to 1 mg/kg for 5 consecutive days showed significantly decreased weights of the seminal vesicles, ventral prostate, and glans penis. Plasma follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH) levels were significantly increased in the 0.1 mg/kg PNMC treatment group. Our results demonstrate that PNMC in diesel exhaust particles clearly has anti-androgenic activity both in vitro and in vivo and can therefore be considered as an endocrine-disrupting chemical.
Role of reactive oxygen species on diesel exhaust particle-induced cytotoxicity in rat cardiac myocytes.	Exposure to air pollution containing diesel exhaust particles (DEP) is associated with an increase in mortality rate attributed to cardiovascular diseases, but the mechanisms by which DEP produces adverse cardiovascular effects at the cellular level are not elucidated. This study investigated the cytotoxic mechanisms underlying DEP-induced neonatal rat cardiac myocytes effects in vitro, focusing on the role of reactive oxygen species (ROS). DEP extracts (DEPE) damaged cells in a concentration- and a time-dependent manner. Lactate dehydrogenase activity leaked to medium was also increased in a concentration-dependent manner after 24 h of DEPE exposure. DEPE-induced cytotoxicity was markedly reduced by treatment with superoxide dismutase, catalase, and N-(2-mercaptopropionyl)-glycine. Furthermore, superoxide was produced from both DEPE and myocardial cells. These results suggest that ROS such as superoxide, hydrogen peroxide, and hydroxyl radical are involved in DEPE-induced cardiac cell damage.
Effects of volatile constituents of rosemary extract on lung inflammation induced by diesel exhaust particles.	Epidemiological and experimental studies have implicated that diesel exhaust particles are involved in increases in morbidity and mortality from lung diseases. Recently, we have demonstrated that rosmarinic acid, a polyphenolic liquid component in perilla, inhibits lung inflammation induced by diesel exhaust particles in vivo, partly through its antioxidative property. We have also shown the antioxidative activities of volatile constituents of rosemary extract, the gaseous component in perilla, in vitro. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of intratracheal administration of volatile rosemary extract on lung inflammation induced by diesel exhaust particles. ICR mice were treated with intratracheal administration of volatile rosemary extract before intratracheal exposure to diesel exhaust particles. Twenty-four hr later, diesel exhaust particles exposure elicited lung inflammation characterized by the infiltration of neutrophils and eosinophils, which was confirmed by cellular profile of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and histological examination. Diesel exhaust particles enhanced the protein expressions of interleukin-1beta, macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1, and keratinocyte chemoattractant in the lung. Pretreatment with rosemary extract significantly inhibited the diesel exhaust particles-induced lung inflammation. Rosemary extract treatment also suppressed the diesel exhaust particles-enhanced lung expression of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1, and keratinocyte chemoattractant. These results suggest that intratracheal administration of rosemary extract can prevent lung inflammation induced by diesel exhaust particles. The preventive effect is mediated, at least partly, through the inhibition of the enhanced lung expressions of macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1, and keratinocyte chemoattractants.
Cooperation of the inducible nitric oxide synthase and cytochrome P450 1A1 in mediating lung inflammation and mutagenicity induced by diesel exhaust particles.	Diesel exhaust particles (DEPs) have been shown to activate oxidant generation by alveolar macrophages (AMs), alter xenobiotic metabolic pathways, and modify the balance of pro-antiinflammatory cytokines. In this study we investigated the role of nitric oxide (NO) in DEP-mediated and DEP organic extract (DEPE) -mediated inflammatory responses and evaluated the interaction of inducible NO synthase (iNOS) and cytochrome P450 1A1 (CYP1A1). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were intratracheally (IT) instilled with saline, DEPs (35 mg/kg), or DEPEs (equivalent to 35 mg DEP/kg), with or without further treatment with an iNOS inhibitor, aminoguanidine (AG; 100 mg/kg), by intraperitoneal injection 30 min before and 3, 6, and 9 hr after IT exposure. At 1 day postexposure, both DEPs and DEPEs induced iNOS expression and NO production by AMs. AG significantly lowered DEP- and DEPE-induced iNOS activity but not the protein level while attenuating DEPE- but not DEP-mediated pulmonary inflammation, airway damage, and oxidant generation by AMs. DEP or DEPE exposure resulted in elevated secretion of both interleukin (IL) -12 and IL-10 by AMs. AG significantly reduced DEP- and DEPE-activated AMs in IL-12 production. In comparison, AG inhibited IL-10 production by DEPE-exposed AMs but markedly increased its production by DEP-exposed AMs, suggesting that NO differentially regulates the pro- and antiinflammatory cytokine balance in the lung. Both DEPs and DEPEs induced CYP1A1 expression. AG strongly inhibited CYP1A1 activity and lung S9 activity-dependent 2-aminoanthracene mutagenicity. These studies show that NO plays a major role in DEPE-induced lung inflammation and CYP-dependent mutagen activation but a lesser role in particulate-induced inflammatory damage.
In utero exposure to diesel exhaust increased accessory reproductive gland weight and serum testosterone concentration in male mice.	The effects of in utero exposure to diesel exhaust (DE) on the male mouse reproductive system were examined. Pregnant ICR mice inhaled DE at soot concentrations of 0.3, 1.0, or 3.0 mg DEP/m3 or clean air as the control, for 2-16 days postcoitum. On postnatal day (PND) 28, the weights of the testes and accessory glands and testosterone concentration in serum were significantly higher in the DE-exposed male pups. Testosterone concentration correlated significantly (P<0.01) with the expression levels of steroidogenic enzyme mRNAs, weights of the testes and male reproductive accessory glands, and daily sperm production. These findings indicate that very early stage mouse embryo exposure to DE leads to endocrine disruption after birth and acceleration of male puberty.
Diesel exhaust exposure favors TH2 cell recruitment in nonatopic subjects by differentially regulating chemokine production.	The prevalence of allergic diseases has increased in the last 20 years, and a number of studies have shown that diesel exhaust particle-associated polyaromatic hydrocarbons can exacerbate the allergic reaction. Much less is known about their potential capacity to generate a T(H)2-type allergic reaction in nonatopic subjects.
Pro-oxidative diesel exhaust particle chemicals inhibit LPS-induced dendritic cell responses involved in T-helper differentiation.	Epidemiologic studies show that exposure to ambient particulate matter leads to asthma exacerbation. Diesel exhaust particles (DEPs), a model pollutant, act as an adjuvant for allergic sensitization. Increasing evidence shows that this effect could be mediated by an effect on dendritic cells (DCs).
Inhalation of diluted diesel engine emission impacts heart rate variability and arrhythmia occurrence in a rat model of chronic ischemic heart failure.	Both increase in cardiac arrhythmia incidence and decrease in heart rate variability (HRV) have been described following human and experimental animal exposures to air pollutants. However, the potential causal relationship between these two factors remains unclear. Incidence of ventricular arrhythmia and HRV were evaluated during and after a 3 h period of Diesel engine exhaust exposure in ten healthy and ten chronic ischemic heart failure (CHF, 3 months after coronary ligation) Wistar rats using implantable ECG telemetry. Air pollutants were delivered to specifically designed whole body individual exposure chambers at particulate matter concentrations similar to those measured inside cabins of cars inserted in congested urban traffic. Recordings were obtained from unrestrained and unsedated vigil rats. Immediate decrease in RMSSD was observed in both healthy (6.64 +/- 2.62 vs. 4.89 +/- 1.67 ms, P < 0.05) and CHF rats (8.01 +/- 0.89 vs. 6.6 +/- 1.37 ms, P < 0.05) following exposure. An immediate 200-500% increase in ventricular premature beats was observed in CHF rats only. Whereas HRV progressively returned to baseline values within 2.5 h after exposure start, the proarrhythmic effect persisted as late as 5 h after exposure termination in CHF rats. Persistence of ventricular proarrhythmic effects after HRV normalization suggests that HRV reduction is not the mechanism of cardiac arrhythmias in this model. Our methodological approach, closely reflecting the real clinical situations, appeared to be a unique tool to provide further insight into the pathophysiological mechanisms of traffic related airborne pollution health impact.
Exposure to diesel and gasoline engine emissions and the risk of lung cancer.	Pollution from motor vehicles constitutes a major environmental health problem. The present paper describes associations between diesel and gasoline engine emissions and lung cancer, as evidenced in a 1979-1985 population-based case-control study in Montreal, Canada. Cases were 857 male lung cancer patients. Controls were 533 population controls and 1,349 patients with other cancer types. Subjects were interviewed to obtain a detailed lifetime job history and relevant data on potential confounders. Industrial hygienists translated each job description into indices of exposure to several agents, including engine emissions. There was no evidence of excess risks of lung cancer with exposure to gasoline exhaust. For diesel engine emissions, results differed by control group. When cancer controls were considered, there was no excess risk. When population controls were studied, the odds ratios, after adjustments for potential confounders, were 1.2 (95% confidence interval: 0.8, 1.8) for any exposure and 1.6 (95% confidence interval: 0.9, 2.8) for substantial exposure. Confidence intervals between risk estimates derived from the two control groups overlapped considerably. These results provide some limited support for the hypothesis of an excess lung cancer risk due to diesel exhaust but no support for an increase in risk due to gasoline exhaust.
Effects of on-road highway aerosol exposures on autonomic responses in aged, spontaneously hypertensive rats.	Epidemiological studies associate ambient particulate pollution with adverse health outcomes in elderly individuals with cardiopulmonary diseases. We hypothesized that freshly generated ultrafine particles (UFP) contribute to these effects, as they are present in high number concentrations on highways and vehicle passengers are exposed directly to them. Aged spontaneously hypertensive rats (9-12 mo) with implanted radiotelemetry devices were exposed to highway aerosol or filtered, gas-denuded (clean) air using an on-road exposure system to examine effects on heart rate (HR) and heart-rate variability (HRV). On the day of exposure, rats were pretreated with low-dose inhaled or injected lipopolysaccharide (LPS) to simulate respiratory tract or systemic inflammation, respectively. Exposures (6 h) in compartmentalized whole-body chambers were performed in an air conditioned compartment of a mobile laboratory on I-90 between Rochester and Buffalo, NY. HRV parameters were calculated from telemetric blood pressure signals and analyzed for the baseline period and for the first 32 h postexposure. The aerosol size (count median diameter = 15-20 nm; geometric standard deviation = 1.4-4.3) and number concentration (1.95-5.62 x 105/cm3) indicated the predominance of UFP. Intraperitoneal LPS significantly affected all of the parameters in a time-dependent manner; response patterns after inhaled or injected LPS pretreatment were similar, but more prolonged and greater in LPS-injected rats. A significant effect of highway aerosol was found, irrespective of pretreatment, which resulted in decreased HR in comparison to clean air-exposed rats. This effect was more persistent ( approximately 14 h) in those rats that received ip LPS as compared to saline. The highway aerosol also significantly affected short-term alterations in autonomic control of HR, as evidenced by elevations in normalized high frequency power and decreased vagosympathetic balance. These findings show that environmental exposure concentrations of mixed traffic-related UFP/gas-phase emissions can affect the autonomic nervous system.
Pulmonary exposure to diesel exhaust particles enhances fatty change of the liver in obese diabetic mice.	In epidemiological studies, exposure to ambient particulate matter (PM) has been reported to be positively associated with mortality in subjects with diabetes mellitus. Diesel exhaust particles (DEP) are major constituents of atmospheric PM. However, there is no experimental evidence for the relation of DEP to diabetes mellitus and its complications. We investigated the effects of DEP inoculated intratracheally on diabetic changes and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) in diabetic obese and control mice. db/db mice and the corresponding nondiabetic db/+m mice received exposure to vehicle or DEP every two weeks. Animals were examined with biochemistry, histology, and immunohistochemistry for hexanoyl-lysine (HEL) in the liver. In the db/+m mice, pulmonary exposure to DEP did not increase levels of aspartate aminotransferase (AST) or alanine aminotransferase (ALT) compared to that to vehicle. In the db/db mice, however, the exposure to DEP increased the levels of AST and ALT compared to that to vehicle. Only in the db/db mice, DEP enhanced the magnitude of steatosis and formation of HEL, a marker of oxidative stress, in the liver compared to vehicle. These results suggest that pulmonary exposure to DEP, PM, enhances steatosis in the liver of obese diabetic subjects possibly via enhanced oxidative stress.
Inhalation of ultrafine and fine particulate matter disrupts systemic vascular function.	This study investigated the effects of particulate matter (PM) with aerodynamic diameter 0.02-1 microm (noted as PM1) inhalation during exercise on conduit artery and microvascular function. Inhalation of internal combustion-derived PM is associated with cardiovascular mortality and morbidity. Direct action of PM on the vascular endothelium is likely, as a substantial fraction of ultrafine PM translocates from the alveoli to the circulatory system. Sixteen intercollegiate athletes performed 30 min of exercise while inhaling low or high PM1. Flow-mediated brachial artery dilation (FMD) using high-resolution ultrasonography with simultaneous measurements of forearm oxygen kinetics using near infrared spectrophotometry (NIRS) was done before and after exercise. Basal brachial artery vasoconstriction was found after high PM1 exercise (4.0%, 4.66 +/- 0.609 to 4.47 +/- 0.625 mm diameter; p = .0002), but not after low PM1 exercise (-0.3%, 4.66 +/- 0.626 to 4.68 +/- 0.613 mm diameter). FMD was impaired after high PM1 exercise (6.8 +/- 3.58% for preexercise FMD and 0.30 +/- 2.74% for postexercise FMD, p = .0001), but not after low PM1 exercise (6.6 +/- 4.04% for preexercise FMD and 4.89 +/- 4.42% for postexercise FMD). Reduction in forearm muscle reperfusion estimated by reoxygenation slope-to-baseline after 4 min cuff ischemia was observed for high PM1 exercise (55% vs. 3%, p = .0006); no difference was noted for low PM1 exercise. Brachial artery FMD was significantly correlated to muscle reoxygenation slope-to-baseline (r = .50, p = .005). Acute inhalation of high [PM1] typical of urban environments impairs both systemic conduit artery function and microcirculation. The observed decrease reoxygenation slope-to-baseline after cuff release is consistent with reduced blood flow in the muscle microvasculature.
Air pollution and doctors' house calls for respiratory diseases in the Greater Paris area (2000-3).	This study describes the short-term relationships between the daily levels of PM10, PM2.5, NO2 and the number of doctors' house calls for asthma, upper respiratory diseases (URD) and lower respiratory diseases (LRD) in Greater Paris for the years 2000-3. Doctors' house calls are a relevant health indicator for the study of short-term health effects of air pollution. Indeed, it is potentially more sensitive than indicators such as general hospital admissions due to the severity of diseases motivating the call. In this study, time-series analysis was used. The daily numbers of doctor's house calls were adjusted for time trends, seasonal factors, day of the week, influenza, weather and pollen. Up to 15 days of lag between exposure and health effects was considered using distributed lag models. A total of about 1,760,000 doctors' house calls for all causes occurred during the study period, among which 8027 were for asthma, 52,928 for LRD and 74,845 for URD. No significant increase in risk was found between air pollution and doctors' house calls for asthma. No significant association was found between NO2 and doctors' house calls. An increase of 10 microg/m3 in the mean levels of PM10 and PM2.5 encountered during the 3 previous days was associated with an increase of 3% (0.8% and 5.3%) and 5.9% (2.9% and 9.0%) in the number of doctor's house calls for URD and LRD, respectively. Considering up to 15 days between exposure and health outcomes, effects persist until 4 days after exposure and then decrease progressively. No morbidity displacement was observed. This study shows a significant heath effect of ambient particles (PM2.5 and PM10). When compared to the RRs obtained for mortality or hospital admissions in the same area, the values of the RRs obtained in this study confirm the higher sensibility of doctor's house calls for respiratory diseases as a health indicator.
Ozone enhances the airway inflammation initiated by diesel exhaust.	Exposure to air pollution is associated with adverse health effects, with particulate matter (PM) and ozone (O(3)) both indicated to be of considerable importance. Diesel engine exhaust (DE) and O(3) generate substantial inflammatory effects in the airways. However, as yet it has not been determined whether a subsequent O(3) exposure would add to the diesel-induced airway inflammatory effects. Healthy subjects underwent two separate exposure series: A 1-h DE exposure at a PM-concentration of 300 microg/m(3), followed after 5h by a 2-h exposure to filtered air and 0.2 ppm O(3), respectively. Induced sputum was collected 18 h after the second exposure. A significant increase in the percentage of neutrophils (PMN) and concentration of myeloperoxidase (MPO) was seen in sputum post DE+O(3) vs. DE+air (p<0.05 and <0.05, respectively). Significant associations were observed between the responses in MPO concentration and total PMN cells (p=0.001), and also between MPO and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP-9) (p<0.001). The significant increase of PMN and MPO after the DE+O(3) exposures, compared to DE+air, denotes an O(3)-induced magnification of the DE-induced inflammation. Furthermore, the correlation between responses in MPO and number of PMNs and MMP-9 illustrate that the PMNs are activated, resulting in a more potent inflammatory response. The present study indicates that O(3) exposure adds significantly to the inflammatory response that is established by diesel exhaust. This interaction between exposure to particulate pollution and O(3) in sequence should be taken into consideration when health effects of air pollution are considered.
Air pollution and development of asthma, allergy and infections in a birth cohort.	Few studies have addressed associations between traffic-related air pollution and respiratory disease in young children. The present authors assessed the development of asthmatic/allergic symptoms and respiratory infections during the first 4 yrs of life in a birth cohort study (n = approximately 4,000). Outdoor concentrations of traffic-related air pollutants (nitrogen dioxide PM(2.5), particles with a 50% cut-off aerodynamic diameter of 2.5 mum and soot) were assigned to birthplace home addresses with a land-use regression model. They were linked by logistic regression to questionnaire data on doctor-diagnosed asthma, bronchitis, influenza and eczema and to self-reported wheeze, dry night-time cough, ear/nose/throat infections and skin rash. Total and specific immunoglobulin (Ig)E to common allergens were measured in a subgroup (n = 713). Adjusted odds ratios (95% confidence intervals) per interquartile pollution range were elevated for wheeze (1.2 (1.0-1.4) for soot), doctor-diagnosed asthma (1.3 (1.0-1.7)), ear/nose/throat infections (1.2 (1.0-1.3)) and flu/serious colds (1.2 (1.0-1.4)). No consistent associations were observed for other end-points. Positive associations between air pollution and specific sensitisation to common food allergens (1.6 (1.2-2.2) for soot), but not total IgE, were found in the subgroup with IgE measurements. Traffic-related pollution was associated with respiratory infections and some measures of asthma and allergy during the first 4 yrs of life.
Increased expression of HLA-DR and CD86 in nasal epithelial cells in allergic rhinitics: antigen presentation to T cells and up-regulation by diesel exhaust particles.	A proportion of nasal epithelial cells (NEC) in patients with allergic rhinitis (AR) are known to express the major histocompatibility complex Class II molecule (HLA-DR).
Responses of differentiated primary human lung epithelial cells to exposure to diesel exhaust at an air-liquid interface.	In vitro responses of potential target cell types to air pollutants under physiological conditions may be useful in understanding the health effects of air pollution exposure. The study evaluated responses of human primary airway epithelial cells to diesel exhaust (DE). Cultures of cells from 3 donors, differentiated by culture on membranes with the apical surfaces exposed to the atmosphere, were exposed to filtered air or DE. Some exposure-related effects were similar among donors, whereas others were affected by the donor, consistent with human population heterogeneity. This model may be useful for mechanistic and comparative toxicology studies.
Repeated inhalations of diesel exhaust particles and oxidatively damaged DNA in young oxoguanine DNA glycosylase (OGG1) deficient mice.	DNA repair may prevent increased levels of oxidatively damaged DNA from prolonged oxidative stress induced by, e.g. exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEP). We studied oxidative damage to DNA in broncho-alveolar lavage cells, lungs, and liver after 4 x 1.5 h inhalations of DEP (20 mg/m3) in Ogg1-/- and wild type (WT) mice with similar extent of inflammation. DEP exposure increased lung levels of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG) in Ogg1-/- mice, whereas no effect on 8-oxodG or oxidized purines in terms of formamidopyrimidine DNA glycosylase (FPG) sites was observed in WT mice. In both unexposed and exposed Ogg1-/- mice the level of FPG sites in the lungs was 3-fold higher than in WT mice. The high basal level of FPG sites in Ogg1-/- mice probably saturated the assay and prevented detection of DEP-generated damage. In conclusion, Ogg1-/- mice have elevated pulmonary levels of FPG sites and accumulate genomic 8-oxodG after repeated inhalations of DEP.
Prenatal exposure to diesel exhaust impairs mouse spermatogenesis.	The effect of prenatal exposure to diesel exhaust (DE) was investigated. Twenty pregnant ICR mice were exposed to DE at the particle concentration of 1.0 mg/m3, from d 2 until d 16 postcoitum. Male offspring were kept alive until 12 wk of age, and then male reproductive organ weight, daily sperm production (DSP), serum testosterone level, and mRNA expression of sex steroid hormone synthesis process-related factors were measured. Serum testosterone levels of the exposed group were reduced significantly at 3 wk, whereas they were elevated significantly at 12 wk. DSP was also markedly reduced at 5 and 12 wk. Histological examination showed multinucleated giant cells in the seminiferous tubules of the exposed group as well as partial vacuolation of the seminiferous tubules. Follicle-stimulating hormone receptor (FSHR) mRNA expression and steroidogenesis acute regulatory (StAR) protein were significantly increased at 5 wk and 12 wk, respectively. This study suggests that prenatal exposure to DE has detrimental effects on mouse spermatogenesis in offspring.
Effect of railway engines emission on the micromorphology of some field plants.	Plant species as indicator is the most common method used to indicate the effects of pollution on plants. However, the present study explores the usage of micromorphological parameters of the plant species as the indicators. The plants selected for the present studies included Croton bonplandianum, Cannabis sativa and Calotropis procera. The parameters examined were (1) abnormalities of stomata, (2) number of stomata per unit area, (3) number of epidermal cells per unit area, (4) stomatal index. The present studies on these field plants revealed that diesel engines emission caused appreciable changes in the number of epidermal cells and stomata per unit area. Plants of all the three genera growing very close to the railway tracks displayed an adverse effect on these numbers.
Biodiesel exhaust: the need for health effects research.	Biodiesel is a diesel fuel alternative that has shown potential of becoming a commercially accepted part of the United States' energy infrastructure. In November 2004, the signing of the Jobs Creation Bill HR 4520 marked an important turning point for the future production of biodiesel in the United States because it offers a federal excise tax credit. By the end of 2005, industry production was 75 million gallons, a 300% increase in 1 year. Current industry capacity, however, stands at just over 300 million gallons/year, and current expansion and new plant construction could double the industry's capacity within a few years. Biodiesel exhaust emission has been extensively characterized under field and laboratory conditions, but there have been limited cytotoxicity and mutagenicity studies on the effects of biodiesel exhaust in biologic systems.
Up-regulation of tissue factor in human pulmonary artery endothelial cells after ultrafine particle exposure.	Epidemiology studies have linked exposure to pollutant particles to increased cardiovascular mortality and morbidity, but the mechanisms remain unknown.
Acute changes in sputum IL-10 following underground exposure to diesel exhaust.	Although exposure to diesel exhaust has been linked with adverse health effects, little is known about the acute effects of exposure in the underground workplace.
Suppression of phagocytic and bactericidal functions of rat alveolar macrophages by the organic component of diesel exhaust particles.	Exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEP) was shown to increase the susceptibility of the lung to bacterial infection in rats. In this study, the effects of DEP on alveolar macrophage (AM) phagocytic and bactericidal functions and cytokine secretion by AM and lymphocytes in response to Listeria monocytogenes infection were investigated in vitro and the roles of different DEP components in these processes were compared. Exposure to DEP or the organic extracts of DEP (eDEP) significantly decreased the phagocytosis and killing of L. monocytogenes by AM obtained from normal rats. Washed DEP (wDEP) also decreased AM phagocytosis and bacterial killing to a lesser extent, whereas carbon black (CB) reduced AM phagocytosis but had no significant effect on AM bactericidal activity. DEP or eDEP concentration-dependently suppressed L. monocytogenes-induced secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1beta, and IL-12 by AM and of IL-2 and interferon-gamma by lymphocytes obtained from L. monocytogenes-infected rats, but augmented the AM secretion of IL-10. wDEP or CB, however, exerted little or no effect on these L. monocytogenes-induced cytokines. These results provide direct evidence that DEP, through the actions of organic components, suppresses AM phagocytic and bactericidal functions in vitro. Inhibition of AM phagocytic function and alterations of AM and lymphocyte cytokine secretion by DEP and DEP organic compounds may be implicated in the diminished AM bactericidal activity and the lymphatic arm of the host immune system, thus resulting in an suppressed pulmonary clearance of L. monocytogenes and an increased susceptibility of the lung to bacterial infection.
Particles from wood smoke and traffic induce differential pro-inflammatory response patterns in co-cultures.	The inflammatory potential of particles from wood smoke and traffic has not been well elucidated. In this study, a contact co-culture of monocytes and pneumocytes was exposed to 10-40 microg/cm(2) of particles from wood smoke and traffic for 12, 40 and 64 h to determine their influence on pro-inflammatory cytokine release (TNF-alpha, IL-1, IL-6, IL-8) and viability. To investigate the role of organic constituents in cytokine release the response to particles, their organic extracts and the washed particles were compared. Antagonists were used to investigate source-dependent differences in intercellular signalling (TNF-alpha, IL-1). The cytotoxicity was low after exposure to particles from both sources. However, wood smoke, and to a lesser degree traffic-derived particles, induced a reduction in cell number, which was associated with the organic fraction. The release of pro-inflammatory cytokines was similar for both sources after 12 h, but traffic induced a greater release than wood smoke particles with increasing exposure time. The organic fraction accounted for the majority of the cytokine release induced by wood smoke, whereas the washed traffic particles induced a stronger response than the corresponding organic extract. TNF-alpha and IL-1 antagonists reduced the release of IL-8 induced by particles from both sources. In contrast, the IL-6 release was only reduced by the IL-1 antagonist during exposure to traffic-derived particles. In summary, particles from wood smoke and traffic induced differential pro-inflammatory response patterns with respect to cytokine release and cell number. Moreover, the influence of the organic particle fraction and intercellular signalling on the pro-inflammatory response seemed to be source-dependent.
The effects of oxidative stress induced by prolonged low-dose diesel exhaust particle exposure on the generation of allergic airway inflammation differ between BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice.	We have recently reported that airway inflammatory responses to the oxidative stress induced by prolonged low-dose diesel exhaust particle (DEP) exposure differ markedly between BALB/c and C57BL/6 mice. In the present study, the effects of genetic differences in the response to prolonged low-dose DEP exposure on the generation of ovalbumin-induced allergic airway inflammation were further explored using the same mouse strains. In BALB/c mice, eosinophils and mucous goblet cells in histopathological pulmonary specimens increased significantly after DEP exposure, and were more marked than in C57BL/6 mice. Interleukin (IL)-5 and IL-13 levels in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid were increased significantly by DEP exposure only in BALB/c mice. The DEP-induced increases in peribronchial eosinophils and mucous goblet cells in the lung tissues, and of IL-5 and IL-13 in the BAL fluid, were significantly attenuated by the antioxidant N-acetylcysteine. Thus, the effects of prolonged low-dose DEP exposure on the generation of allergic airway inflammation differed markedly between the mouse strains. These differences may be caused by different antioxidant responses to the oxidative stress induced by DEP exposure. Our results contribute more information to the search for genetic susceptibility factors in the response to DEP, and may thus assist in the discovery of new biomarkers for DEP-related disease.
Effects of the extracts of condensate, particulates and semivolatile organic compounds from gasoline exhaust on oxidative damage and genotoxicity in testicles of rats]	To determine the effects of the extracts of condensate, particulates and semivolatile organic compounds from gasoline engine exhaust (EGE) on oxidative damage and DNA single strand break in testicles of rats.
Toxicological evaluation of diesel emissions on A549 cells.	To evaluate the health effects of diesel emissions (DE) using an in vitro experiment, A549 cells were exposed to emission from a diesel engine on an engine dynamo, using a culture-cell-exposure device. Three groups were set according to cell exposure to high concentrations of particulate matter (PM) and/or nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)). The emissions of each group was dilution rate 1:100 and 1:10, and PM was 0.8mg/m(3) and/or NO(2) was 80ppm at dilution rate 1:10. After 1h, exposed cells were analyzed for cell viability and gene expression. Fifty percent of cell viability in the high-PM/high-NO(2) exposure group occurred at a dilution rate of 1:14, based on the concentration of CO(2). Heme oxygenase-1 mRNA expression significantly increased at 1:100 dilution of the high-PM/high-NO(2) group and 1:100 and 1:10 dilutions of the high-PM/low-NO(2) group, compared to background air. By DNA microarray, all gene expressions at a dilution rate of 1:10 in each group were observed to be higher than those at 1:100, and some cancer-related genes up-regulated. We concluded that screening methods for evaluating health effects could be established using this cell-exposure system because the effects of DE on A549 cells were shown by cell viability and gene expression.
Acute cardiac dysfunction after short-term diesel exhaust particles exposure.	Epidemiological studies show an association between particulate matter exposure and acute heart failure. However, underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, we investigated acute cardiac hemodynamic effects and related mechanisms after 1 day exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEPs). Male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized and instilled with 250 microg (low dose) or 500 microg (high dose) of DEP or saline placebo intra-tracheally. The cardiac systolic function by dP/dt(40) and diastolic functions by maximal negative dP/dt were both worse in DEP low dose and DEP high dose groups than the control group, respectively. In the heart rate variability analysis, SDNN in DEP low dose and DEP high dose groups were both lower than the control group. The low frequency heart rate variability was higher in the DEP groups compared to the control group. The cardiac IL-1beta expression and circulating cardiac troponin I level were higher in the DEP group than the control group. Plasma IL-1beta and IL-6 protein were significantly higher in the DEP groups than the control group. In conclusion, DEP exposure causes acute cardiac systolic and diastolic dysfunction. The changes may be related to decreased heart rate variability, increased cardiac inflammatory reaction and myocardial damage.
Ether oxygenate additives in gasoline reduce toxicity of exhausts.	Fuel additives can improve combustion and knock resistance of gasoline engines. Common additives in commercial fuels are "short-chain, oxygen containing hydrocarbons" such as methyl tert-butyl ether (MTBE) and ethyl tert-butyl ether (ETBE). Since these additives change the combustion characteristics, this may as well influence toxic effects of the resulting emissions. Therefore we compared toxicity and BTEX emissions of gasoline engine exhaust regarding addition of MTBE or ETBE. Non-reformulated gasoline served as basic fuel. This fuel was supplemented with 10%, 20%, 25% and 30% ETBE or 15% MTBE. The fuels were combusted in a gasoline engine at idling, part load and rated power. Condensates and particulate matter (PM) were collected and PM samples extracted with dichloromethane. Cytotoxic effects were investigated in murine fibroblasts (L929) using the neutral red uptake assay and mutagenicity using the bacterial reverse mutation assay. BTEX emissions were analyzed by gas chromatography.
Acute effects of diesel emission from the urea selective catalytic reduction engine system on male rats.	Short-term inhalation experiments were performed using Fischer 344 rats exposed to emission from the urea selective catalytic reduction (SCR) diesel engine system to identify health effects and compare them to those of the conventional diesel engine system. Rats were exposed to high-, middle-, or low-concentration emission (dilution ratio 1:29, 1:290, or 1:580) or clean air (control) for 1, 3, or 7 days (6 h/day), under driving conditions at a speed of 1320 rpm and a torque of 840 Nm. For the high-concentration group, the major components of the urea SCR emission were 0.04 mg/m(3) particulate matter (PM) and 0.78 ppm nitrogen dioxide (NO(2)); those of the conventional emission were 0.95 mg/m(3) PM and 0.31 ppm NO(2). The authors evaluated the respiratory effects of each emission on rats. Lymphocytes for 3-day exposure of both emissions significantly increased in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, but there were slight differences. With an increase in potential antioxidant (PAO), 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine for the urea SCR emission was significantly decreased, but that of the conventional emission was highest among all groups and did not show a response to PAO. In lungs, heme oxygenase (HO)-1 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha mRNA expressions for the urea SCR emission showed a tendency to increase compared to those of the conventional emission. Thus, gene analysis results suggested that NO(2) from the urea SCR emission affected the expressions of mRNAs in lungs. However, as a whole, the results suggested that the health effects of the urea SCR emission might be less than the conventional emission on rats.
Effect of diesel exhaust particles on house dust mite-induced airway eosinophilic inflammation and remodeling in mice.	Recent research has focused on the effects of ambient particulate pollution and much evidence has indicated that particulate pollution is associated with the onset of asthma and allergy; however, the effect of diesel exhaust particles (DEP) on the development of allergen-induced airway remodeling has not been fully investigated in vivo. In the present study, we examined the effects of DEP on Dermatophagoides farinae allergens (Der f)-induced asthma-like phenotypes in mice. Mice were administered i.t. 8 times with Der f. DEP were injected i.t. with Der f 4 times throughout the experiment or twice at the sensitization period. In both cases, DEP aggravated Der f-induced increases in airway responsiveness to acetylcholine, the number of eosinophils and neutrophils in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), serum Der f-specific IgG1 levels, Th2 cytokines and transforming growth factor-beta1 levels in BALF, and amount of hydroxyproline in the right lungs. Furthermore, goblet cell hyperplasia and subepithelial fibrosis were also markedly aggravated. These findings indicate that DEP can potentiate airway remodeling induced by repeated allergen challenge as well as Th2-drived airway hyperresponsiveness, eosinophilic inflammation, and IgG1 production and that DEP can exhibit adjuvant activity for airway remodeling, probably due to the enhancement of allergen sensitization and/or of Th2 polarizing pathways.
Acute decreases in proteasome pathway activity after inhalation of fresh diesel exhaust or secondary organic aerosol.	Epidemiologic studies consistently demonstrate an association between acute cardiopulmonary events and changes in air pollution; however, the mechanisms that underlie these associations are not completely understood. Oxidative stress and inflammation have been suggested to play a role in human responses to air pollution. The proteasome is an intracellular protein degradation system linked to both of these processes and may help mediate air pollution effects.
Traffic-related air pollution and cognitive function in a cohort of older men.	Traffic-related particles induce oxidative stress and may exert adverse effects on central nervous system function, which could manifest as cognitive impairment.
Traffic air pollution and oxidized LDL.	Epidemiologic studies indirectly suggest that air pollution accelerates atherosclerosis. We hypothesized that individual exposure to particulate matter (PM) derived from fossil fuel would correlate with plasma concentrations of oxidized low-density lipoprotein (LDL), taken as a marker of atherosclerosis. We tested this hypothesis in patients with diabetes, who are at high risk for atherosclerosis.
Nitrogen dioxide: no influence on allergic sensitization in an intranasal mouse model with ovalbumin and diesel exhaust particles.	The role of traffic-related air pollution in the development of allergic diseases is still unclear. We therefore investigated if NO₂, an important constituent of traffic-related air pollution, promotes allergic sensitization to the allergen ovalbumin (OVA). We also examined if NO₂ influenced the allergy adjuvant activity of diesel exhaust particles (DEP). For this purpose, mice were exposed intranasally to OVA with or without DEP present, immediately followed by exposure to NO₂ (5 or 25 parts per million [ppm]) or room air for 4 h in whole body exposure chambers. Eighteen hours after the last of three exposures, the lungs of half of the animals were lavaged with saline and markers of lung damage and lung inflammation in the bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) were measured. Three weeks later, after intranasal booster immunizations with OVA, the levels of OVA-specific IgE and IgG2a antibodies in serum were determined. Both NO₂ (25 ppm) and DEP gave lung damage, measured as increased total protein concentration in BALF, whereas only NO₂ seemed to stimulate release of the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α). In contrast, only DEP significantly increased the number of neutrophils. Furthermore, DEP in combination with OVA stimulated the production of serum allergen-specific IgE antibodies. NO₂, however, neither increased the production of allergen-specific IgE antibodies, nor influenced the IgE adjuvant activity of DEP. Thus, based on our findings, NO₂ seems to be of less importance than combustion particles in the development of allergic diseases after exposure to traffic-related air pollution.
Engine-operating load influences diesel exhaust composition and cardiopulmonary and immune responses.	The composition of diesel engine exhaust (DEE) varies by engine type and condition, fuel, engine operation, and exhaust after treatment such as particle traps. DEE has been shown to increase inflammation, susceptibility to infection, and cardiovascular responses in experimentally exposed rodents and humans. Engines used in these studies have been operated at idle, at different steady-state loads, or on variable-load cycles, but exposures are often reported only as the mass concentration of particulate matter (PM), and the effects of different engine loads and the resulting differences in DEE composition are unknown.
Diesel exhaust activates and primes microglia: air pollution, neuroinflammation, and regulation of dopaminergic neurotoxicity.	Air pollution is linked to central nervous system disease, but the mechanisms responsible are poorly understood.
Solution-engineered palladium nanoparticles: model for health effect studies of automotive particulate pollution.	Palladium (Pd) nanoparticles are recognized as components of airborne automotive pollution produced by abrasion of catalyst materials in the car exhaust system. Here we produced dispersions of hydrophilic spherical Pd nanoparticles (Pd-NP) of uniform shape and size (10.4 ± 2.7 nm) in one step by Bradley's reaction (solvothermal decomposition in an alcohol or ketone solvent) as a model particle for experimental studies of the Pd particles in air pollution. The same approach provided mixtures of Pd-NP and nanoparticles of non-redox-active metal oxides, such as Al(2)O(3). Particle aggregation in applied media was studied by DLS and nanoparticle tracking analysis. The putative health effects of the produced Pd nanoparticles and nanocomposite mixtures were evaluated in vitro, using human primary bronchial epithelial cells (PBEC) and a human alveolar carcinoma cell line (A549). Viability of these cells was tracked by vital dye exclusion, and apoptosis was also assessed. In addition, we monitored the release of IL-8 and PGE(2) in response to noncytotoxic doses of the nanoparticles. Our studies demonstrate cellular uptake of Pd nanoparticles only in PBEC, as determined by TEM, with pronounced and dose-dependent effects on cellular secretion of soluble biomarkers in both cell types and a decreased responsiveness of human epithelial cells to the pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-α. When cells were incubated with higher doses of the Pd nanoparticles, apoptosis induction and caspase activation were apparent in PBEC but not in A549 cells. These studies demonstrate the feasibility of using engineered Pd nanoparticles to assess the health effects of airborne automotive pollution.
No exercise-induced increase in serum BDNF after cycling near a major traffic road.	Commuting by bike has a clear health enhancing effect. Moreover, regular exercise is known to improve brain plasticity, which results in enhanced cognition and memory performance. Animal research has clearly shown that exercise upregulates brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF - a neurotrophine) enhancing brain plasticity. Studies in humans found an increase in serum BDNF concentration in response to an acute exercise bout. Recently, more evidence is emerging suggesting that exposure to air pollution (such as particulate matter (PM)) is higher in commuter cyclists compared to car drivers. Furthermore, exposure to PM is linked to negative neurological effects, such as neuroinflammation and cognitive decline. We carried-out a cross-over experiment to examine the acute effect of exercise on serum BDNF, and the potential effect-modification by exposure to traffic-related air pollution. Thirty eight physically fit, non-asthmatic volunteers (mean age: 43, 26% women) performed two cycling trials, one near a major traffic road (Antwerp Ring, R1, up to 260,000 vehicles per day) and one in an air-filtered room. The air-filtered room was created by reducing fine particles as well as ultrafine particles (UFP). PM10, PM2.5 and UFP were measured. The duration (∼20min) and intensity of cycling were kept the same for each volunteer for both cycling trials. Serum BDNF concentrations were measured before and 30min after each cycling trial. Average concentrations of PM10 and PM2.5 were 64.9μg/m(3) and 24.6μg/m(3) in cycling near a major ring way, in contrast to 7.7μg/m(3) and 2.0μg/m(3) in the air-filtered room. Average concentrations of UFP were 28,180 particles/cm(3) along the road in contrast to 496 particles/cm(3) in the air-filtered room. As expected, exercise significantly increased serum BDNF concentration after cycling in the air-filtered room (+14.4%; p=0.02). In contrast, serum BDNF concentrations did not increase after cycling near the major traffic route (+0.5%; p=0.42). Although active commuting is considered to be beneficial for health, this health enhancing effect could be negatively influenced by exercising in an environment with high concentrations of PM. Whether this effect is also present with chronic exercise and chronic exposure must be further elucidated.
Traffic air pollution and risk of death from gastric cancer in Taiwan: petrol station density as an indicator of air pollutant exposure.	To investigate the relationship between air pollution and risk of death attributed to gastric cancer, a matched cancer case-control study was conducted using deaths that occurred in Taiwan from 2004 through 2008. Data for all eligible gastric cancer deaths were obtained and compared to a control group consisting of individuals who died from causes other than neoplasms and diseases that were associated with gastrointestinal (GIT) disorders. The controls were pair-matched to the cancer cases by gender, year of birth, and year of death. Each matched control was randomly selected from the set of possible controls for each cancer case. Data for the number of petrol stations in study municipalities were collected from two major petroleum supply companies. The petrol station density (per square kilometer) (PSD) for study municipalities was used as an indicator of a subject's exposure to benzene and other hydrocarbons present in ambient evaporative losses of petrol or to air emissions from motor vehicles. The exposed individuals were subdivided into three categories (≤25th percentile; 25th-75th percentile; >75th percentile) according to PSD in the residential municipality. Results showed that individuals who resided in municipalities with the highest PSD were at an increased risk of death attributed to gastric cancer compared to those subjects living in municipalities with the lowest PSD. The findings of this study warrant further investigation of the role of traffic air pollution exposure in the etiology of gastric cancer.
Pathological study for the effects of in utero and postnatal exposure to diesel exhaust on a rat endometriosis model.	Previous studies have shown that prenatal and postnatal exposure to diesel exhaust (DE), which is known to be one of the main constituents of air pollution, enhances the persistence of endometriosis in a rat model. The aim of this study is to investigate the pathological changes induced by DE exposure in a rat model of endometriosis. Pregnant Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to DE or clean air beginning on gestational day 2 and neonatal rats were persistently exposed to DE or clean air. Endometriosis was induced by autotransplantation of endometrium onto the peritoneum of eight-week-old female offspring. Endometriotic lesions were examined at 7 and 14 days post-transplantation. As a result, infiltration of activated mast cells remained in deeper area of peritoneal tissue around the endometriosis model compared to the control group at 14 days post-autotransplantation. In the DE exposure group, 14 days post-transplant, the remaining lesions contained fibroblasts and activated mast cells, which were surrounded by collagen fibers. The data showed that prenatal and postnatal DE exposure enhances the activation of mast cells and prolongs the persistence of collagen fibers in the induced rat model of endometriosis.
Anti-inflammatory effects of aerobic exercise in mice exposed to air pollution.	Exposure to diesel exhaust particles (DEP) results in lung inflammation. Regular aerobic exercise improves the inflammatory status in different pulmonary diseases. However, the effects of long-term aerobic exercise on the pulmonary response to DEP have not been investigated. The present study evaluated the effect of aerobic conditioning on the pulmonary inflammatory and oxidative responses of mice exposed to DEP.
Dose-response and threshold analysis of tumor prevalence after intratracheal instillation of six types of low- and high-surface-area particles in a chronic rat experiment.	Over a period of 20 years, rat experiments have consistently shown tumorigenic responses after exposure to poorly soluble low-toxicity particles (PSP). We performed a rigorous dose threshold analysis of a large previous rat study. Seven hundred and nine rats were intratracheally exposed to five different PSP: carbon black and titanium dioxide of low and high surface area, diesel emission particles (low surface area), and one soluble dust (amorphous silica, high surface area), at varying instilled total mass doses ranging from 3.0 mg to 120 mg. A multivariable Cox model was applied to analyse lung tumor prevalence. The model was extended by a dose threshold or a dose saturation parameter. This statistical approach, which is new in animal studies, showed no better fit when using surface area or volume as dose metrics but found significantly higher tumor prevalence in animals instilled with high-surface-area dust particles. Interestingly, a dose threshold of about 10 mg mass dose (0.95 CI: 5 mg to 15 mg) emerged from our calculations. In addition, our statistical analysis demonstrated that tumor prevalence is saturated beyond 20 mg mass dose. In summary, our analyses showed that these data are compatible with earlier observations that high-surface-area particles induce more lung tumors and support the concept of a dose threshold for lung tumor after PSP exposures in the rat. However, collinearities in the data (particle type and dose were correlated by design) and the saturation phenomenon (506 out of 709 rats were exposed above the estimated saturation dose) limit generalization of these findings.
Controlled human exposures to diesel exhaust.	Diesel exhaust is a complex mixture of gaseous and particulate compounds resulting from an incomplete combustion of diesel fuel. Controlled human exposures to diesel exhaust and diesel exhaust particles (DEP) have contributed to understanding health effects. Such acute exposure studies of healthy subjects to diesel exhaust and DEP demonstrate a pro-inflammatory effect in the lung and systemically but only at higher concentrations (with a threshold dose approximating 300 µg/m3). Unexpectedly, there appears to be a lack of an inflammatory response to diesel exhaust and DEP in asthmatic individuals. Controlled human exposure studies of cardiovascular effects show that, comparable to other particle-associated exposures, diesel exhaust has a capacity to precipitate coronary artery disease. In addition, there is a relationship between diesel exhaust and DEP exposure and vascular endpoints; these effects in diesel exhaust may be diminished with removal of DEP. Many extra-pulmonary health effects of diesel exhaust exposure, including systemic inflammation, pro-thrombotic changes, and cardiovascular disease, are considered consequent to pro-inflammatory events and inflammation in the lung. Future research will focus on the relative importance of diesel exhaust components, potential interactions between components and other pollutants, effects in sensitive individuals, and effects of longer or repeated exposures.
Traffic air pollution and mortality from cardiovascular disease and all causes: a Danish cohort study.	Traffic air pollution has been linked to cardiovascular mortality, which might be due to co-exposure to road traffic noise. Further, personal and lifestyle characteristics might modify any association.
Vascular oxidative stress induced by diesel exhaust microparticles:  synergism with hypertension.	Epidemiological and clinical studies have shown that traffic-related air pollution and, particularly, diesel exhaust particles (DEP) are strongly linked to cardiovascular mortality.
Toxicity effects of short term diesel exhaust particles exposure to human small airway epithelial cells (SAECs) and human lung carcinoma epithelial cells (A549).	In this study, confocal Raman spectroscopy, atomic force microscope (AFM) and multiplex ELISA were applied to analyze the biophysical responses (biomechanics and biospectroscopy) of normal human primary small airway epithelial cells (SAECs) and human lung carcinoma epithelial A549 cells to in vitro short term DEP exposure (up to 2h). Raman spectra revealed the specific cellular biomolecular changes in cells induced by DEP compared to unexposed control cells. Principal component analysis was successfully applied to analyze spectral differences between control and treated groups from multiple individual cells, and indicated that cell nuclei are more sensitive than other cell locations. AFM measurements indicated that 2h of DEP exposure induced a significant decrease in cell elasticity and a dramatic change in membrane surface adhesion force. Cytokine and chemokine production measured by multiplex ELISA demonstrated DEP-induced inflammatory responses in both cell types.
A review of cancer risk in the trucking industry, with emphasis on exposure to diesel exhaust.	Two large cohort studies of members of US unions in the trucking industries provided some evidence of an increased risk of lung cancer. However, no increased risk was reported in comparisons with an external (unexposed) population, the evidence of an association rests on the results of analyses by duration of employment, or by estimated exposure to elemental carbon. These estimates are subjects to uncertainties and potential misclassification bias. In addition, residual confounding by tobacco smoking and by other occupational exposures cannot be excluded. The hypothesis of carcinogenicity of diesel exhaust (DE) is biologically plausible; an IARC Working Group has recently concluded that the evidence is sufficient to classify DE as human carcinogen. This review of studies of truck drivers illustrates the problems of epidemiology of DE-exposed workers, and stresses the need for careful consideration to potential sources of bias and confounding.
Childhood allergic rhinitis, traffic-related air pollution, and variability in the GSTP1, TNF, TLR2, and TLR4 genes: results from the TAG Study.	Associations between traffic-related air pollution (TRAP) and allergic rhinitis remain inconsistent, possibly because of unexplored gene-environment interactions.
Changes in traffic exposure and the risk of incident myocardial infarction and all-cause mortality.	Traffic-related exposures, such as air pollution and noise, have been associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Few studies, however, have been able to examine the effects of changes in exposure on changes in risk. Our objective was to explore the associations of changes in traffic exposure with changes in risk between 1990 and 2008 in the Nurses' Health Study.
Induction of cardiac fibrosis and transforming growth factor-β1 by motorcycle exhaust in rats.	Motorcycle exhaust (ME) is a major source of air pollution and a potential health hazard in urban areas where motorcycles are a popular means of transportation. The main objectives of this study were to determine the ability of ME to cause cardiotoxicity in rats and investigate the possible mechanisms of toxicity. Male rats were exposed to 1:10 diluted ME by inhalation 2 h daily and Monday through Friday for 8 weeks. Exposure to ME increased heart weight and decreased cardiac antioxidant enzymes glutathione S-transferase (GST), superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase activities in a concentration- and time-dependent manner. Analysis of echocardiographic parameters indicated that ME increased left ventricle posterior wall thickness, interventricular septum thickness and left ventricle mass. Histopathological examinations of the hearts revealed that ME exposure caused focal cardial degeneration and necrosis, mononuclear cell infiltration, and fibrosis. The results of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction studies showed that ME decreased GST-M1 and GST-P1 mRNA expression and increased the expression of proinflammatory cytokine interleukin-1β, hypertrophy marker atrial natriuretic peptide, fibrosis markers type I and III collagen, profibrotic cytokine connective tissue growth factor, and hypertrophy and fibrosis mediator transforming growth factor (TGF)-β1 in the heart. The data of Western blot analysis showed that cardiac TGF-β1 protein was induced by ME. These findings demonstrate that subchronic ME exposure caused hypertrophy and fibrosis, and modulated GST and TGF-β1 expression in rat heart possibly by mechanisms involving oxidative stress and inflammation.
Diesel exhaust particle induction of IL-17A contributes to severe asthma.	IL-17A has been implicated in severe forms of asthma. However, the factors that promote IL-17A production during the pathogenesis of severe asthma remain undefined. Diesel exhaust particles (DEPs) are a major component of traffic-related air pollution and are implicated in asthma pathogenesis and exacerbation.
Obese mice are resistant to eosinophilic airway inflammation induced by diesel exhaust particles.	Particulate matter can exacerbate respiratory diseases such as asthma. Diesel exhaust particles are the substantial portion of ambient particulate matter with a <2.5 µm diameter in urban areas. Epidemiological data indicate increased respiratory health effects of particulate matter in obese individuals; however, the association between obesity and diesel exhaust particle-induced airway inflammation remains unclear. We aimed to investigate the differences in susceptibility to airway inflammation induced by exposure to diesel exhaust particles between obese mice (db/db) and lean mice (db/+m). Female db/db and db/+m mice were intratracheally administered diesel exhaust particles or vehicle every 2 weeks for a total of seven times. The cellular profile of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and histological changes in the lungs were assessed and the lungs and serum were analyzed for the generation of cytokines, chemokines and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1. Diesel exhaust particle exposure-induced eosinophilic infiltration in db/+m mice accompanied by T-helper 2 cytokine, chemokine and soluble intercellular adhesion molecule 1 expression in the lungs. In contrast, it induced mild neutrophilic airway inflammation accompanied by elevated cytokines and chemokines in db/db mice. The lungs of db/db mice exhibited decreased expression of eosinophil activators/chemoattractants such as interleukin-5, interleukin-13 and eotaxin compared with those of db/+m mice. In addition, serum eotaxin and monocyte chemotactic protein-1 levels were significantly higher in db/db mice than in db/+m mice. In conclusion, obesity can affect susceptibility to diesel exhaust particle-induced airway inflammation, which is possibly due to differences in local and systemic inflammatory responses between lean and obese individuals.
Oxidative stress, inflammatory biomarkers, and toxicity in mouse lung and liver after inhalation exposure to 100% biodiesel or petroleum diesel emissions.	Over the past decade, soy biodiesel (BD) has become a first alternative energy source that is economically viable and meets requirements of the Clean Air Act. Due to lower mass emissions and reduced hazardous compounds compared to diesel combustion emissions (CE), BD exposure is proposed to produce fewer adverse health effects. However, considering the broad use of BD and its blends in different industries, this assertion needs to be supported and validated by mechanistic and toxicological data. Here, adverse effects were compared in lungs and liver of BALB/cJ mice after inhalation exposure (0, 50, 150, or 500 μg/m3; 4 h/d, 5 d/wk, for 4 wk) to CE from 100% biodiesel (B100) and diesel (D100). Compared to D100, B100 CE produced a significant accumulation of oxidatively modified proteins (carbonyls), an increase in 4-hydroxynonenal (4-HNE), a reduction of protein thiols, a depletion of antioxidant gluthatione (GSH), a dose-related rise in the levels of biomarkers of tissue damage (lactate dehydrogenase, LDH) in lungs, and inflammation (myeloperoxidase, MPO) in both lungs and liver. Significant differences in the levels of inflammatory cytokines interleukin (IL)-6, IL-10, IL-12p70, monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1, interferon (IFN) γ, and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-α were detected in lungs and liver upon B100 and D100 CE exposures. Overall, the tissue damage, oxidative stress, inflammation, and cytokine response were more pronounced in mice exposed to BD CE. Further studies are required to understand what combustion products in BD CE accelerate oxidative and inflammatory responses.
Occupational exposure to crystalline silica and the risk of lung cancer in Canadian men.	Crystalline silica is a recognized carcinogen, but the association with lung cancer at lower levels of exposure has not been well characterized. This study investigated the relationship between occupational silica exposure and lung cancer and the combined effects of cigarette smoking and silica exposure on lung cancer risk. A population-based case-control study was conducted in eight Canadian provinces between 1994 and 1997. Self-reported questionnaires were used to obtain a lifetime occupational history and information on other risk factors. Occupational hygienists assigned silica exposures to each job based on concentration, frequency and reliability. Data from 1681 incident lung cancer cases and 2053 controls were analyzed using logistic regression to estimate odds ratios (OR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI). Models included adjustments for cigarette smoking, lifetime residential second-hand smoke and occupational exposure to diesel and gasoline engine emissions. Relative to the unexposed, increasing duration of silica exposure at any concentration was associated with a significant trend in lung cancer risk (OR ≥ 30 years: 1.67, 1.21-2.24; ptrend  = 0.002). The highest tertile of cumulative silica exposure was associated with lung cancer (OR = 1.81, 1.34-2.42; ptrend  = 0.004) relative to the lowest. Men exposed to silica for ≥30 years with ≥40 cigarette pack-years had the highest risk relative to those unexposed with <10 pack-years (OR = 42.53, 23.54-76.83). The joint relationship with smoking was consistent with a multiplicative model. Our findings suggest that occupational exposure to silica is a risk factor for lung cancer, independently from active and passive smoking, as well as from exposure to other lung carcinogens. 
Induction of aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylase in rat tissue following intratracheal instillation of diesel particulate extract and benzo[a]pyrene.	The potential for aryl hydrocarbon hydroxylate (AHH) induction by inhaled diesel particles was assessed by intratracheal administration. Benzo[a]pyrene, (B[a]P) a reference compound, or an extract of particles, dissolved in gelatin-saline solution was administered to Fischer 344 rats at several dose levels. Twenty-four hours after administration of B[a]P or diesel particulate extract, the AHH activity increased in a dose-response manner in the lung, but not in liver. The maximum increase in the AHH activity in the lung was observed 12 h after intratracheal instillation of B[a]P (5 mg/kg), and the levels remained elevated for seven days. The AHH activity in the liver reached the maximum 24 h after the administration, and returned rapidly to control values. In contrast, intratracheal instillation of diesel particulate extract resulted in a significant increase of AHH activity in the lungs only after doses greater than 6 mg kg-1. The activity, however, declined rapidly and returned to control values within 75 h. The liver AHH activity in this instance, remained unchanged throughout the experimental period. These data indicate that in the lung, hydrocarbons extracted from diesel particles are weak enzyme inducers and exposure to these compounds by intratracheal administration did not result in AHH induction in the liver. The results suggest that doses higher than those normally expected from occupational exposures will be required to induce AHH activity in organs examined.
The effect of automobile exhaust particulates on cell viability, plating efficiency and cell division of mammalian tissue culture cells.	Extract of particulate matter (EPM) of gasoline engine exhaust induced only a slight loss of cell viability of mouse macrophages (line IC-21) in vitro, while a strong dose-dependent reduction of plating efficiency of human cell line A-549 and of Syrian hamster line 14-1b occurred. Cytological investigations of exposed macrophages of line IC-21 revealed an increase in the mitotic index from 1.5% of control values up to 14.6% at the highest tested concentration of EPM. Mitotic arrest is based almost exclusively on C-type mitoses occurring dose-dependently in the presence of EPM. Results indicate disturbances of the spindle apparatus in the presence of EPM.
Health effects of exposure to diesel exhaust particles.	Diesel-powered vehicles emit substantially more particles than do gasoline-powered vehicles with contemporary emission control systems. The DEP are submicron in size and readily inhaled. Approximately one-fourth of the particle mass inhaled by people is deposited in the pulmonary region, some of which is retained with a half-life of several hundred days. In animal studies, exposure to high levels of DEP overwhelms the normal clearance mechanisms and results in lung burdens of DEP that exceed those predicted from observations at lower exposure concentrations. A variable amount of the mass of DEP is extractable with strong organic solvents. The extracted material contains more than a thousand individual compounds and is mutagenic in a number of bacterial and mammalian cell assays. Bioassay-directed chemical analysis of DEP had identified several hundred compounds. Many are PAHs, some of which are considered to have human carcinogenic potential. A number of nitrated compounds have been identified that account for a significant portion of the mutagenicity assayed in bacteria. The mutagenicity of the DEPE is generally reduced by addition of an S-9 cellular fraction or of serum proteins. Macrophages rapidly reduce the recoverable mutagenic activity associated with DEP. These findings support a hypothesis that detoxification of DEP-associated organics occurs rapidly in vivo. The association of benzo(a)pyrene and nitropyrene with DEP prolongs their retention in the lungs. This increased retention suggests the need to clarify the relative importance of competing mechanisms that detoxify particle-associated compounds and those that serve to enhance the retention of toxicologically important compounds. Some extracts of DEP evoke tumorigenic responses in skin-tumor bioassays, suggesting their carcinogenic potential in mammals. A number of large-scale studies have been conducted with laboratory rodents to evaluate the effects of chronic inhalation exposure to DE. An increased incidence of lung tumors, some of which were diagnosed as malignant, was observed in 5 studies with rats following exposure for 2 or more years to high levels of DE. Most of the lung tumors were observed after 2 years. Similar studies in Syrian hamsters have yielded negative results. Studies with mice have given mixed results. The results of some studies with laboratory animals exposed to DE and known carcinogens suggest that exposure to DE enhances the effect of the known carcinogens. The specific mechanisms of tumor induction in the DE-exposed rats are unknown. Hypotheses and experimental data have been advanced in support of both genetic and epigenetic mechanisms of action of the DE.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Analysis of the effects of inhaled diesel exhaust on the alveolar intravascular and interstitial cellular components of rodent lungs.	Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) was used to determine the effect of diesel engine exhaust (DEE) on the intravascular and interstitial cellular population of the lungs of exposed rats and guinea pigs. Animals with matched controls were subjected to environments of either 250, 750, 1500 or 6000 micrograms/m3 for either 2 weeks, 6 weeks, 10 weeks or 18 months. These animals were sacrificed immediately following the exposure periods and their lungs perfused with fixative. Following dissection, random stratified biopsies from the lungs of these animals were made. Ultrathin sections from the alveolar lung were prepared and conventionally processed for TEM and randomly photographed to compose a micrograph database. These micrographs were analyzed by point counting using a Zeiss MOP 3 Digital Image Analyzer. The results indicated no significant intravascular cellular response but a significant increase in the mononuclear population in the interstitium.
Pulmonary diesel particulate increases susceptibility to myocardial ischemia/reperfusion injury via activation of sensory TRPV1 and β1 adrenoreceptors.	Clinical studies have now confirmed the link between short-term exposure to elevated levels of air pollution and increased cardiovascular mortality, but the mechanisms are complex and not completely elucidated. The present study was designed to investigate the hypothesis that activation of pulmonary sensory receptors and the sympathetic nervous system underlies the influence of pulmonary exposure to diesel exhaust particulate on blood pressure, and on the myocardial response to ischemia and reperfusion.
Physicochemical characteristics of nanomaterials that affect pulmonary inflammation.	The increasing manufacture and use of products based on nanotechnology raises concerns for both workers and consumers. Various studies report induction of pulmonary inflammation after inhalation exposure to nanoparticles, which can vary in aspects such as size, shape, charge, crystallinity, chemical composition, and dissolution rate. Each of these aspects can affect their toxicity, although it is largely unknown to what extent. The aim of the current review is to analyse published data on inhalation of nanoparticles to identify and evaluate the contribution of their physicochemical characteristics to the onset and development of pulmonary inflammation. Many physicochemical characteristics of nanoparticles affect their lung deposition, clearance, and pulmonary response that, in combination, ultimately determine whether pulmonary inflammation will occur and to what extent. Lung deposition is mainly determined by the physical properties of the aerosol (size, density, shape, hygroscopicity) in relation to airflow and the anatomy of the respiratory system, whereas clearance and translocation of nanoparticles are mainly determined by their geometry and surface characteristics. Besides size and chemical composition, other physicochemical characteristics influence the induction of pulmonary inflammation after inhalation. As some nanoparticles dissolve, they can release toxic ions that can damage the lung tissue, making dissolution rate an important characteristic that affects lung inflammation. Fibre-shaped materials are more toxic to the lungs compared to spherical shaped nanoparticles of the same chemical composition. In general, cationic nanoparticles are more cytotoxic than neutral or anionic nanoparticles. Finally, surface reactivity correlates well with observed pulmonary inflammation. With all these characteristics affecting different stages of the events leading to pulmonary inflammation, no unifying dose metric could be identified to describe pulmonary inflammation for all nanomaterials, although surface reactivity might be a useful measure. To determine the extent to which the various characteristics influence the induction of pulmonary inflammation, the effect of these characteristics on lung deposition, clearance, and pulmonary response should be systematically evaluated. The results can then be used to facilitate risk assessment by categorizing nanoparticles according to their characteristics. 
Epidemiological analysis of the dynamics and structure of population mortality rate from malignant neoplasms in the city of Tomsk]	There was revealed the tendency of reduction of cancer mortality in the city of Tomsk. Average indices of the time series of total mortality (absolute growth and growth rate) in 1998-2003 outstripped the similar indices in 2004-2010 respectively 5.3 times and 1.6 times over. Mortality from cancer neoplasmas on localization decreased by 2 orders of magnitude. Mortality from cancer of the trachea, bronchus and lung in the structure of total oncomortality is on the 1st place, on the 2nd--the death rate from cancer of the stomach, on the 3rd place in 1998-2003, mortality rate of colorectal cancer in 2004-2010. There was found the relationship of mortality of cancer of separate localizations with industrial emissions (leukemia), motor vehicles (cancer of the lips, mouth, pharynx, and colon) and stationary sources (cancer of the urinary organs). The air pollution with formaldehyde and particulate matter were established to affect the death rate for cancer of lips, mouth and throat, and other digestive organs and larynx.
Effects of a brief low-level exposure to the particulate fraction of diesel exhaust on pulmonary function of conscious sheep.	This study was undertaken to determine the effects of an acute low-level exposure to diesel exhaust particulate material on pulmonary function in conscious sheep. This was accomplished by measuring pulmonary mechanics, airway reactivity to increasing doses of aerosolized carbachol, and tracheal mucous velocity both prior to and immediately after exposure to the diesel exhaust particulates. The diesel exhaust particulate material was aerosolized by a fluidized-bed dust generator. The mass concentration of the dust ranged between 400 to 500 micrograms/m3 and a mass median aerodynamic diameter of 2.8 micrometers. The sheep breathed the diesel exhaust particulates for 30 min by means of a Plexiglas helmet. The particulates caused no material alteration in pulmonary resistance, airway reactivity to aerosolized carbachol, or static lung compliance when compared to pre-exposure values. Tracheal mucous velocity was likewise unaffected. In conscious sheep under the present exposure conditions, the diesel exhaust material administered as a respirable aerosol does not materially affect the function of the large airways, the elastic properties of the lung, nor tracheal mucous transport.
Effect of diesel exhaust emissions, particulates, and extract on sister chromatid exchange in transplacentally exposed fetal hamster liver.	The genotoxic activity of diesel exhaust emissions, particulate matter, and an organic extract of the particulate matter was evaluated in transplacentally exposed Syrian hamster fetal liver cells. The frequency of sister chromatid exchange (SCE) was determined on day 13 of gestation. The extract of diesel particulate matter caused a dose-dependent increase in the frequency of SCE with a doubling in the incidence above 320mg/kg. The diesel particulate matter and diesel exhaust emissions did not alter the frequency of SCE. The extract and particulate matter did cause a dose-dependent decrease in the mitotic activity of the fetal liver. The in utero SCE analysis was demonstrated to be a sensitive assay for determination of the genotoxic activity of a complex mixture in transplacentally exposed fetuses.
Scanning electron microscopy of terminal airways of guinea pigs chronically inhaling diesel exhaust.	The structural physiology of airways from 80 guinea pigs was examined for changes induced by diesel exhaust (DE) exposure. Acute, subacute and chronic studies contrasted inhalation effects of 250, 750, 1500 and 6000 micrograms DE/m3 with "clean air" breathing of age-matched controls. Nonciliated epithelial (Clara) cells, epithelial type 2 cells and alveolar macrophages were increased in a DE dose dependent fashion. Also, eosinophils, were recruited. Epithelial type 1 cells of the distal airways internalized DEP. The relative dustiness (particulate density) of airways was assessed from coded specimens. Some 86% of DE exposed animals were correctly identified. Scanning Electron Microscopy (SEM) resolved surface located DE particulates (DEP). Single particles, loose clusters, low density agglomerates occurred. While SEM visual clues are insufficient for absolute identification of DE particles, there was supporting evidence from transmission electron microscopy (TEM) and from SEM studies comparing vascular with intratracheally fixed specimens. Presumptive DEP were notable on bifurcation bridges in respiratory bronchioles and alveolar ducts while alveolar outpockets had heavy dust burdens. Clumps of macrophages in such alveoli almost occluded the airspace. We conclude that normal guinea pigs appear to adapt to a chronic DE stress environment. But, the ultrastructural basis (cellular protrusions, DEP agglomerates and secretional debris) exists in peripheral airways for airflow instability and increased airflow resistance.
Carcinogenic action of polycyclic hydrocarbons in animals and in man.	Basic data on the carcinogenic action of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) in animals and in man are presented, mainly from the author's own experience. Benzo[a]pyrene (BaP), a powerful carcinogenic agent widely spread in the human environment, can be considered an indicator of PAH. Quantitative spectral-fluorescent methods developed by the author and his co-workers were used to study the circulation of BaP in the atmosphere, hydrosphere, soil, plants, animals and humans. Accumulation and degradation of PAH, as well as the background level of BaP, in the environment are described. The results were used as a basis for establishing health standards and other preventive measures against cancer.
Experimental results with percutaneous applications of automobile exhaust condensates in mice.	The induction of squamous-cell carcinoma and papillomas in mice after 80 weeks' skin painting with different doses of automobile exhaust condensates and their fractions is described. The results demonstrate that the carcinogenic activity of the condensate resides in its polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon fractions. Benzo[a]pyrene accounts for approximately 9% of the activity of the condensate. The sebaceous gland suppression test, used as a screening method, is predictive of carcinogenicity and is positive for those condensate subfractions which contain carcinogenic PAH.
Syncarcinogenic action of polycyclic hydrocarbons in automobile exhaust gas condensates.	The carcinogenic action of the hydrocarbon mixture predominantly found in condensates of automobile exhaust gas can be attributed almost exclusively, on the basis of the results presented here, to a group of substances (PAH) with an insignificant weight proportion. It was not possible to demonstrate an inhibitory action of most of the weak-to-inactive hydrocarbons; on the contrary, an additive effect of the two types could be observed. At very high doses (almost 10 times higher than the highest doses selected in the rest of the trial) the group of substances which were supposed to be non-carcinogenic also proved to be biologically effective. Subsequent individual studies on the same animal strain should clarify whether this action is to be attributed to one or two representatives of this group, e.g., benzo[e]pyrene or chrysene.
Oncogenic interaction of carcinogenic and non-carcinogenic polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons in mice.	To evaluate possible interactions between PAH occurring in automobile exhaust condensates with regard to their tumour forming potency, the following experiments were performed. Six different doses of benzo[a]pyrene (3-100 microgram) and of dibenzo]a,h]anthracene (2-75 microgram) and mixtures thereof were tested subcutaneously on female NMRI mice. In addition, mixtures of 10 non-carcinogenic hydrocarbons were applied: benzo[e]pyrene, benzo[a]anthracene, phenanthrene, anthracene, pyrene, fluoranthene, chrysene, perylene, benzo[ghi]perylene and coronene. Mixtures of all 12 PAH were also applied. The proportion of PAH in all mixtures used was the same as in automobile exhaust condensates; benzo[a]pyrene was used as reference substance. The most important results were as follows: 1. Small doses of dibenzo[a,h]anthracene have a greater tumour promoting effect than do comparable doses of benzo[a]pyrene. Increased doses increase the effect of benzo[a]pyrene more than that of dibenzo[a,h]anthracene. 2. The mixture of benzo[a]pyrene and dibenzo[a,h]anthracene is 1.4 time more active than dibenzo[a,h]anthracene alone. 3. The mixture of all PAH has a lower efficacy than dibenzo[a,h]anthracene alone, amounting to only 0.03 that of dibenzanthracene; however, the activity of dibenzo[a,h]anthracene within the mixture of the 12 PAH increases by a factor of 3.1. 4. The activity of a mixture of dibenzo[a,h]anthracene and benzo[a]pyrene depends to about 40% on dibenzo[a,h]anthracene; and that of 12 PAH to 30% on dibenzo[a,h]anthracene alone or to 80% on a mixture of dibenzo[a,h]anthracene and benzo[a]pyrene.
Tumours in mice after subcutaneous injection of automobile exhaust condensates.	Automobile exhaust condensate (AEC), either mixed with benzo[a]pyrene (BaP) or suspended or dissolved in tricaprylin, was injected subcutaneously into NMRI mice in a series of experiments. The addition of AEC decreased the incidence of tumours which developed with 30, 90 and 270 microgram BaP. Reduction of tumour incidence was proportional to the amount of AEC added. With an injection of 10 microgram BaP, the latent period was greatly increased when AEC was added, but the occurrence of tumours was the same. Components of AEC appear to inactivate BaP, at least temporarily. In further experiments AEC and nine fractions thereof were injected subcutaneously into mice. The fraction comprising only polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) induced the highest incidence of tumours. In contrast, when it was administered in combination with other fractions the PAH fraction was less active. Application of the products of further fractionation of PAH showed that polycyclic compounds with seven or more rings can also induce tumours in this model.
Toxicological approaches to complex mixtures.	This paper reviews the role of toxicological studies in understanding the health effects of environmental exposures to mixtures. The approach taken is to review mixtures that have received the greatest emphasis from toxicology; major mixtures research programs; the toxicologist's view of mixtures and approaches to their study; and the complementary roles of toxicological, clinical, and epidemiological studies. Studies of tobacco smoke, engine exhaust, combustion products, and air pollutants comprise most of the past research on mixtures. Because of their great experimental control over subjects, exposures, and endpoints, toxicologists tend to consider a wider range of toxic interactions among mixture components and sequential exposures than is practical for human studies. The three fundamental experimental approaches used by toxicologists are integrative (studying the mixture as a whole), dissective (dissecting a mixture to determine causative constituents), and synthetic (studying interactions between agents in simple combinations). Toxicology provides information on potential hazards, mechanisms by which mixture constituents interact to cause effects, and exposure dose-effect relationships; but extrapolation from laboratory data to quantitative human health risks is problematic. Toxicological, clinical, and epidemiological approaches are complementary but are seldom coordinated. Fostering synergistic interactions among the disciplines in studying the risks from mixtures could be advantageous.
Impairment of endothelium-dependent relaxation by diesel exhaust particles in rat thoracic aorta.	Nitric oxide released from vascular endothelium plays important regulatory roles in cardiovascular and pulmonary systems. Epidemiological studies suggest that diesel exhaust particles (DEP) seem to be one of the causative factors responsible for the recent increase in pulmonary diseases. To clarify the pathogenic mechanism, the effects of DEP on vascular endothelial functions were investigated in terms of endothelium-dependent relaxation. Ring preparations of rat thoracic aorta were preincubated for 10 min with a DEP suspension (1, 10, 100 micrograms/ml) at 37 degrees C in organ baths and relaxed with cumulative additions of acetylcholine following precontraction with phenylephrine (10(-6) M). The relaxation was attenuated by DEP-exposure in a concentration-dependent manner. An addition of superoxide dismutase (SOD) completely abolished the inhibitory effect of DEP at lower concentrations, but only partially at the higher concentration. DEP (10 micrograms/ml) neither affected the contractile response to phenylephrine in intact aortic rings nor the endothelium-independent relaxation by sodium nitroprusside in denuded rings, while DEP (100 micrograms/ml) significantly attenuated both responses. These results suggest that 1) inhaled DEP causes pulmonary inflammation by inhibiting the endothelial formation and/or the effect of nitric oxide and 2) SOD reduces the adverse effects.
Morphometric and morphologic evaluation of pulmonary lesions in beagle dogs chronically exposed to high ambient levels of air pollutants.	Beagle dogs (104) comprising one control and seven treatment groups were exposed 16 hours daily for 68 months to filtered air, raw or photochemically reacted auto exhaust, oxides of sulfur or nitrogen, or their combinations. After a further 32 to 36 months in clean air, morphologic examination of lungs by light microscopy, scanning electron microscopy, and transmission electron microscopy revealed two important exposure-related lesions. They were enlargement of air spaces in proximal acinar regions, with and without increases in the number and size of interalveolar pores, and hyperplasia of nonciliated bronchiolar cells. Proximal enlargment of air spaces was most severe, both subjectively and morphometrically, in those dogs exposed to oxides of nitrogen, oxides of sulfur, or oxides of sulfur with photochemically reacted auto exhause. In contrast, hyperplasia of nonciliated bronchiolar cells was most severe in dogs exposed to raw auto exhaust alone or with oxides of sulfur. The air space enlargement and hyperplasia of bronchiolar epithelium correlated with functional impairment reported as occurring in these dogs. Foci of ciliary loss with and without squamous metaplasia were occasionally observed in trachea and bronchi. The observations indicate that enlargement of proximal acinar air spaces with some loss of interalveolar septa can develop in the absence of alveolar fenestrations. The persistnt nature of bronchiolar cell proliferations in such circumstances was also demonstrated. Two major toxicologic implications are (1) the production of permanent lung damage by much lower concentrations of pollutants than previously reported and (2) the apparent lack of additive or synergistic effects between oxidant gases and sulfur oxides.
Diesel exhaust particulates induce nasal mucosal hyperresponsiveness to inhaled histamine aerosol.	The prevalence of allergic rhinitis is increasing in many countries. It has been reported that the prevalence rate of allergic rhinitis caused by pollens in air-polluted areas are higher than than in nonpolluted areas. Therefore, it is important to determine whether air pollutants are related to the increase in the prevalence rate of allergic rhinitis. In this respect, it is necessary to elucidate whether exposure to air pollutants affects the nasal mucosa and causes nasal mucosal hyperresponsiveness to chemical mediators released by antigen-antibody reactions. In the present study using guinea pigs, we investigated effects of diesel exhaust particulates on (1) nasal airway resistance, (2) increases in nasal airway resistance and secretion induced by histamine aerosol, and (3) vascular permeability and the increase in vascular permeability is an important factor involved in increased nasal airway resistance and secretion. Intranasal pressure and nasal secretion from the nostril were measured as markers of nasal airway resistance and exocrine activity of the nasal mucosa, respectively. A 30-min administration of a suspension of diesel exhaust particulates into the nasal cavities caused a significant increase in intranasal pressure. The administration also augmented an increase in intranasal pressure and nasal secretion induced by histamine aerosol. In dorsal skin, diesel exhaust particulates increased vascular permeability. Diesel exhaust particulates also augmented vascular permeability are potent by histamine. These properties of diesel exhaust particulates are likely derived in part from the augmentation vascular permeability by these particulates.
Diesel exhaust is not a pulmonary carcinogen in CD-1 mice exposed under conditions carcinogenic to F344 rats.	Differences among laboratory animal species in the pulmonary carcinogenicity of chronic inhalation exposure to diesel exhaust have raised several important interpretive issues. Under similar heavy exposure conditions, it is clear that diesel exhaust is a pulmonary carcinogen in rats, but not in Syrian hamsters. Previous reports give conflicting views of the response of mice, which is presently considered equivocal. This report describes carcinogenicity results from a bioassay of CD-1 mice conducted in parallel with a previously reported bioassay of F344 rats (Mauderly et al. (1987) Fundam. Appl. Toxicol. 9, 208-221). Exposure to whole diesel exhaust 7 hr/day, 5 days/week for 24 months at soot concentrations of 0.35, 3.5, or 7.1 mg/m3 caused accumulations of soot in mouse lungs similar to those in lungs of rats and, like the results from rats, did not significantly affect survival or body weight. In contrast to the dose-related neoplastic response of rats, however, the exposures of mice did not increase the incidence of lung neoplasms. This finding is consistent with other data showing that mice, as well as Syrian hamsters, differ from rats in their lung neoplastic and nonneoplastic responses to heavy, chronic inhalation exposure to diesel exhaust soot and several other particles. Although rodents serve as useful indicators of potential human carcinogenic hazards, it is not yet clear which, if any, rodent species have lung neoplastic responses that are useful for quantitative predictions of human lung cancer risk from chronic inhalation of poorly soluble, respirable particles.
Ah receptor and estrogen receptor-dependent modulation of gene expression by extracts of diesel exhaust particles.	The ability of a methylene chloride extract of diesel exhaust particle (EDEP) to activate the aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), bind to and activate the estrogen receptor (ER), and induce gene expression mediated via these nuclear receptors was examined in Hepa1c1c7 mouse hepatoma and MCF-7 human breast cancer cells. EDEP was able to induce a protein-DNA complex by gel retardation assays using a [gamma-32P]dATP-labeled dioxin response element (DRE). This complex could be effectively competed by a 150-fold excess of unlabeled DRE but not by a 150-fold excess of unlabeled mutated DRE. In Hepa1c1c7 cells that were transiently transfected with a DRE-regulated luciferase reporter gene, 4.6 ng/microliter EDEP treatment for 24 h resulted in a 22-fold induction of luciferase activity. In the same cell line, ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase activity was significantly induced 20-fold following 24 h treatment with 4.6 ng/microliter EDEP. Using a competitive ligand binding assay, EDEP displaced bound tritiated E2 from the rat uterine ER in a dose-dependent manner with an IC50 of approximately 100 ng/microliter compared to the IC50 of E2, which was approximately 4.4x10(-4) ng/microliter (1.6 nM). In MCF-7 human breast cancer cells transiently transfected with a Gal4-regulated luciferase reporter gene (17m5-G-Luc) and a chimeric ER (Gal4-HEG0), treatment with 4.6 ng/microliter EDEP for 24 h resulted in a three-fold increase in luciferase activity (P<0.01) compared with the seven-fold increase observed with E2. This study demonstrates that EDEP is able to activate the AhR and ER and induce transcription of reporter genes regulated by these receptors' DNA response elements. Further study is required to identify the individual compound(s) responsible for the observed activity.
Mutagenicity testing of organic extracts of diesel exhaust particles after spiking with polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH).	In the present study, spiking was used as a strategy to evaluate the mutagenicity of individual compounds in a mixture. Mutagenicity of individual polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAH) was evaluated in an organic extract of diesel exhaust particles (DEP). The particles were extracted with dichloromethane (DCM). After replacing DCM with dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO), the extract was spiked with four individual PAH: benzo(a)pyrene, benzo(a)anthracene, pyrene and fluoroanthene. The PAH were added separately and in various combinations to the extract to determine the effects of each variable and to identify possible interactions between the individual PAH and between the PAH and the extract. The study was designed as a fractional factorial experiment with the five variables (the DEP extract and the four PAH), giving 16 (instead of 32) mixtures plus a triplicate centrepoint and background, i.e. a total of 20. The fractionated factorial design used in the present work supports a model with linear and interaction terms. The mixtures were tested for mutagenicity in the Ames assay using four strains of Salmonella typhimurium in the presence of rat liver xenobiotic enzymes (S9-mix). Projections to Latent Structures (PLS) was used to quantify the mutagenicity of each compound and possible interactions. The four individual PAH and the DEP extract acted additively in the Ames test with 10% S9-mix.
