The three-vessel and tracheal view of the fetal heart: an in utero sonographic evaluation.	To establish a nomogram for fetal cardiac three-vessel view diameter changes during gestation.
3D reconstruction of the vessels that enter the right atrium of the mouse heart at Theiler Stage 20.	Computer-generated 3D reconstructions of a serially sectioned mouse embryo at Theiler Stage (TS) 20 (E 12-12.5 d.p.c.) were studied. This study investigated the vessels that enter the right atrium of the heart and the drainage of the ductus venosus. It was principally undertaken to allow a comparison to be made between the situation in the mouse and at a comparable stage of human development. Later stages of prenatal development were also studied in the mouse by the analysis of serially sectioned embryos at TS 21-26. As no left brachiocephalic vein forms in the mouse, unlike the situation in the human, the left (cranial) superior vena cava drains via the left common cardinal vein, later to become the coronary sinus, into the floor of the right atrium. It was also noted that unlike the situation in the human, at no stage during the prenatal period does the ductus venosus enter the right atrium. Even shortly before birth, it enters the intra-hepatic part of the inferior vena cava at a considerable distance caudal to the right atrium. This study indicates that the haemodynamics of the prenatal cardiac circulation in the mouse differs significantly from that in the human.
Prenatal three-vessel and tracheal view: normal features]	Congenital heart disease (CG) are mostly from a low-risk population. Their screening should be based on reproducible and easy to use methods. Prenatal echocardiographic analysis is based primarily on the analysis of the four chambers and great vessels. The study of general admission pathways generalized since the 1980s is performed on an axial section while that of great vessels is performed in most countries more recently using several views and remains difficult. We review the features, under normal circumstances, of the three-vessel and tracheal view that allows via an axial section of the fetal thorax to assess at the same time the trunk of the main pulmonary artery and its branches, the convergence of the ductus arteriosus and the aortic arches, the superior vena cava, and the trachea. Furthermore, the use of color Doppler mode optimizes the information obtained by this view. 
