Homozygotes for prothrombin gene 20210 A allele in a thrombophilic family without clinical manifestations of venous thromboembolism.	A new genetic risk factor for venous thromboembolism has recently been described which involves a G to A transition at position 20210 in the 3' untranslated region of the prothrombin gene. To date, only a few homozygotes for this mutation have been reported and in most of cases, they suffered from thrombotic disease. Here, we describe a pedigree including both heterozygous and homozygous subjects for prothrombin (PT) 20210 A.
Duplex scanning potential at reconstruction of main veins.	The purpose of the present study was to determine the duplex scanning (BS) potential for the evaluation of the results of reconstructive operations for postthrombotic disease. We examined 89 patients who underwent different reconstructions on the deep veins of the lower extremities. The operations included crossover vein graft in unilateral occlusions of the iliac veins (36 patients), bypass grafting in occlusion of the femoral and popliteal veins (12), transposition (23) and autotransplantation (18) of the venous segments containing good valves in recapitalization of the deep great veins. Ultrasound diagnosis of the patency of the veno-venous grafts and function of the transposed or transplanted valves had an accuracy of 100%. DS has been demonstrated to compare very favourably with contrast phlebography. We present the functional characteristics of the blood flow in the veno-venous bypasses when the patient is in the horizontal and vertical positions at rest and under conditions of hydrodynamic provocation of the retrograde blood flow at Valsalva's test, compression tests and of the antegrade blood flow at physical exercise. The tests which upgrade the effectiveness of ultrasonography have been worked out. The morphological variants of lesion of the transplanted venous valve cusps have been established. It is demonstrated that the main cause of valvular incompetence of autotransplants lies in supravalvular (sinusoidal) thrombosis which develops in the early postoperative time, thereby giving rise to the block of the cusps of a transplanted valve. The data on the hemodynamics of venous autotransplants, obtained in the course of the study enable one to select an optimal variant of reconstructive operation, to delineate the postoperative treatment policy and to predict the results of surgical intervention.
Necrotizing fasciitis: pathophysiological and clinical aspects of the problem]	The data of literature and results of treatment of 17 patients with necrotizing fasciitis are analyzed. Original conception of pathogenesis based on thrombosis of microcirculatory vessels of superficial fascia is described. Endotoxemia manifested with clinical picture of sepsis and septic shock. Successful treatment is possible in cases of early diagnosis, urgent surgical treatment and intensive antibiotic therapy. Urgent cryobiopsy of tissues is an important diagnostic point. Lethality was 50% (it reaches 75% according to the literature data), this can be explained by late hospitalization and delayed operation.
The role of microparticles in vascular diseases]	Microparticles (MP) are small cell vesicles that are released by activated or apoptotic cells and that are amenable to quantification in peripheral blood. MP consist of the cytoplasm and the cell membrane of their cell of origin, which allows for their assignment to these cells. By the detection of the respected MP one can conclude to the functional status of the cell of origin. It is known that MP confer specific information between cells and contribute to inflammatory and coagulatory processes. They are detectable in many acute and chronic vascular diseases as a surrogate marker for disease activity but also play a role in the pathophysiology of vascular diseases.
Quality of life in patients with idiopathic subclavian vein thrombosis.	Idiopathic subclavian vein thrombosis (SVT) is a rare disease but these otherwise healthy patients often suffer from prolonged clinical manifestations. The aim of this retrospective study was to assess the range and severity of thrombosis-related disability of the upper extremity in patients after an episode of documented idiopathic SVT in the long-term follow-up.
Iliocaval vein stenting: Long term survey of postthrombotic symptoms and working capacity.	To evaluate the long term effect on lower extremity function and working capacity after stenting of iliocaval vein segments for acute deep venous thrombosis (DVT) or chronic venous occlusive disease. During a 14 year period from November 1994 to October 2008, 114 patients with median age 36 (interquartile range [IQR], 27-48) years, 72 (63%) women, 72 (63%) with hypercoagulable disorders, with acute DVT (n = 44, 39%), or chronic occlusions (n = 70, 61%) in the iliocaval vein segment were treated with venous stent placement after catheter-directed thrombolysis, angioplasty or recanalization. The long term impact on lower extremity function and working capacity was evaluated through retrospective evaluation of a prospectively registered database in combination with a questionnaire sent to all 108 surviving patients. The questionnaire was returned by 91/108(84%) patients, 37 (86%) with acute DVT, and 54(83%) with chronic venous occlusions. After a median follow-up of 6.2 (IQR 3.8-10.5) years, 38 (42%) patients were without anticoagulation therapy. Among patients with acute DVT 29 (78%) reported no lower extremity pain, 31 (84%) reported no ulcerations, and 26 (70%) were without lower extremity swelling, and 33(89%) without pelvic or genital pain. In summary, 22 (59%) were free from any symptomatic postthrombotic symptoms (PTS). Among patients with chronic occlusions, corresponding figures were 22 (41%), 45 (80%), 13 (24%), 39 (72%), and 7 (13%). Among patients treated for acute DVT 27 (73%) were working full- or part time, and 2 (5%) were above retirement age. Corresponding figures among patients treated for chronic venous occlusions were 31 (57%), and 10 (19%). Stenting of iliocaval vein segments with or without catheter-directed thrombolysis is a promising treatment of both acute thrombosis and chronic iliocaval vein occlusion that requires further study in comparison to non-interventional treatment concerning long time effects on postthrombotic symptoms and working capacity.
Observer agreement of lower limb venous reflux assessed by duplex ultrasound scanning using manual and pneumatic cuff compression in patients with chronic venous disease and controls.	The study aimed to evaluate observer agreement between two experienced ultrasound operators examining deep venous reflux assessed by duplex ultrasound (DU) using either manual or pneumatic cuff compression. In addition, the two methods were compared with each other with regard to immediate "eyeballing" and direct measurements of reflux time from Doppler flow curves.
Coagulation and the vessel wall in thrombosis and atherosclerosis.	The blood coagulation system is a key survival mechanism that has developed to protect man against lethal bleeding. A second function of blood coagulation is its close interaction with immunity. The immune-mediated coagulation responses may broadly be regarded as an element of response to injury. Pathological coagulation responses, including thromboembolism and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), could therefore be regarded as excessive immune responses to a vessel wall injury. Virchow's triad, which comprises changes in the components of the blood, the state of the vessel wall, and the blood flow, was originally proposed for venous thrombosis. However, lately it appears that the same principles can be applied to arterial thrombosis and even DIC. It has even been postulated that all forms of thrombosis may be part of a continuous spectrum of the same disease. Over the past few years, an accumulation of evidence has shown that the etiopathogenetic mechanisms behind venous and arterial thrombosis are quite similar. The traditional elements of Virchow's triad are found to apply to both arterial and venous thrombosis. Yet, nowadays more emphasis is placed on the vessel wall and vascular bed specificity and the interaction with inflammation and hypercoagulability. This narrative review will discuss recent advances in research on the possible interactions between coagulation, the vascular endothelium, and atherosclerosis as well as the consequences of such interactions for venous and arterial thrombosis.
Cerebral venous thrombosis and thrombophilia: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) is a rare manifestation of venous thromboembolism (VTE) and stroke. The aim of our systematic review was to provide an updated summary of the strength of association between CVT and thrombophilia and to explore the relevance of thrombophilia for recurrence of CVT or other VTE, or other outcome variables. MEDLINE (via PubMed), EMBASE (via Ovid), and CENTRAL were systematically searched, including references of retrieved articles. Cohort studies of ≥ 40 patients and case-control studies comparing the prevalence of thrombophilia in patients with CVT and unrelated controls were eligible. Two reviewers independently selected studies, assessed quality, and extracted data. A meta-analysis was performed for high quality case-control studies with unselected cases and healthy controls. Odds ratios with 95% confidence intervals were calculated and pooled. We included 23 cohort studies and 33 case-control studies. A significant association was demonstrated between CVT and all inherited thrombophilic factors, as well as increased levels of homocysteine. Inconclusive results were found on the relevance of thrombophilia for recurrent CVT or other VTE. Although there is a strong association between CVT and thrombophilia, the clinical relevance of thrombophilia testing in patients with CVT seems limited, similarly to other forms of VTE. 
Analysis of 27 cases of large vascular lesions in 161 cases of Behcet's disease: clinical manifestations and treatment outcome.	Very little is known about the features of Behcet's disease (BD) with vascular lesions, especially in Chinese population. This study reports the incidence, pattern, and clinical features of vascular lesions in BD patients in China. A total of 161 patients with BD were screened, and 27 patients with vessel involvement were identified. The clinical and laboratory data of the 27 BD patients with vessel involvements were retrospectively analyzed. Of 161 enrolled patients with BD, 27 had large blood vessel damage (16.77 %), with 24 males and 3 females, indicating clear prevalence in males. The average age of onset was 26.2 years old. Seven patients involved arteries only, 15 had vein damage, and 5 showed damage to both arteries and veins. Although vein lesions were more prevalent, arterial lesions were not rare (44.4 % of the vessel-affected BD patients) and could be life-threatening. All 27 patients received various treatments such as steroids, immunosuppressants, anticoagulants, and surgery, and most responded well as evidenced by resumed blood circulation and complete resolution. In conclusion, this study shows features of vessel that involved BD similar to those reported in literatures. Comprehensive treatments lead to significant improvement in BD patients. 
Duplex sonography of vascularization of venous thrombosis.	Changes in the echogenicity of an ageing intravenous thrombus have already been described in B-mode sonography. We tried to investigate the phenomena of vascularisation of the intravenous thrombotic material during the organisation using colour Doppler sonography.
The role of venous ultrasonography in the diagnosis of suspected deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism.	This paper describes the role of venous ultrasonography in the diagnosis of suspected deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Inability to compress the common femoral or popliteal vein is usually diagnostic of a first episode of deep venous thrombosis in symptomatic patients (positive predictive value of about 97%). Full compressibility of both of these sites excludes proximal deep venous thrombosis in symptomatic patients (negative predictive value of about 98%). In patients with suspected deep venous thrombosis or in those who present with suspected pulmonary embolism but have a nondiagnostic lung scan, the subsequent risk for symptomatic venous thromboembolism is very low (<2% during 6 months of follow-up) provided that ultrasonography of the proximal veins remains normal in the course of 1 week (suspected deep venous thrombosis) or 2 weeks (suspected pulmonary embolism). Anticoagulation and further diagnostic testing can usually be safely withheld in these situations. Venous ultrasonography is much less reliable for the diagnosis of asymptomatic, isolated distal, and recurrent deep venous thrombosis than for the diagnosis of a first episode of proximal deep venous thrombosis in symptomatic patients. Clinical evaluation of the probability of deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism, preferably by using a validated clinical model, complements venous ultrasonographic findings and helps to identify patients who would benefit from additional (often invasive) diagnostic testing. Thus, venous ultrasonography is thought to be a very valuable test for the diagnosis and management of patients with suspected deep venous thrombosis or pulmonary embolism.
