Cure of overt diabetes in NOD mice by transient treatment with anti-lymphocyte serum and exendin-4.	Treatment of overtly diabetic NOD mice with anti-lymphocyte serum (ALS), a polyclonal anti-T-cell antibody, abrogates autoimmunity and achieves partial clinical remission. Here we investigated whether the addition of exendin-4, a hormone that stimulates insulin secretion and beta-cell replication and differentiation, improves induction of remission by ALS. Transient treatment of overtly diabetic NOD mice with ALS and exendin-4 achieved complete remission in 23 of 26 mice (88%) within 75 days, accompanied by progressive normalization of glucose tolerance, improved islet histology, increased insulin content in the pancreas, and insulin release in response to a glucose challenge. Syngeneic islets transplanted into mice cured by treatment with ALS plus exendin-4 remained intact, and cotransfer of lymphocytes from cured mice delayed diabetes induction by adoptive transfer, suggesting the long-lasting presence of autoimmune regulatory cells. Although ALS alone also achieved reversal of diabetes, the frequency of remission was low (40%). No treatment or exendin-4 alone failed to produce remission. These results show that exendin-4 synergistically augments the remission-inducing effect of ALS. The addition of beta-cell growth factors, such as exendin-4, to immunotherapy protocols with anti-T-cell antibodies presents a potential novel approach to the cure of patients with new-onset type 1 diabetes.
Exendin-4 normalized postcibal glycemic excursions in type 1 diabetes.	Exendin-4 is a reptilian peptide that activates the mammalian receptor for truncated glucagon-like peptide 1 (tGLP-1) with relatively prolonged actions. Exendin-4 and tGLP-1 can reduce blood glucose levels by stimulating insulin secretion, inhibiting glucagon secretion, and delaying gastric emptying. We tested a range of doses of exendin-4 on postcibal glycemic excursions in nine volunteers with type 1 diabetes, all with negligible endogenous insulin secretion, in paired comparisons with vehicle in at least six volunteers with each of six doses. We established a side effect-free dose and an appropriate antecibal time for sc administration of exendin-4. Subsequently, exendin-4 was administered 15 min before breakfast, with usual insulin, to eight of the volunteers. Acetaminophen was ingested with the meal as an indicator of gastric emptying. The mean plasma glucose excursion was reduced by 90%, falling into the normal range, after breakfast, whereas plasma pancreatic polypeptide, glucagon, and acetaminophen levels were reduced, and insulin levels were not affected. Thus, normalization of postcibal glycemia was associated with delayed gastric emptying and suppression of glucagon secretion, without increased secretion or blood levels of insulin. We suggest that tGLP-1 agonists have therapeutic potential as congeners with insulin in C-peptide-negative type 1 diabetes.
Exenatide (Byetta) for type 2 diabetes.	An injected hypoglycemic drug that does not cause weight gain.
Exendin-4 potently decreases ghrelin levels in fasting rats.	Ghrelin is a potent orexigenic and adipogenic hormone that strongly influences fat deposition and the generation of hunger in obesity. Indeed, hyperghrelinemia appears to promote an increase in food intake as seen in Prader-Willi Syndrome (PWS). Exendin (Ex)-4 is an agonist of the glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-1 receptor (GLP-1r) that has anorexigenic and fat-reducing properties. Here, we report that Ex-4 reduces the levels of ghrelin by up to 74% in fasted rats. These effects are dose dependent and long lasting (up to 8 h), and they can be detected after both central and peripheral administration of Ex-4. Suppression of ghrelin was neither mimicked by GLP-1(7-36)-NH(2) nor blocked by the GLP-1r antagonist Ex-(9-39). Moreover, it was independent of the levels of leptin and insulin. The decrease in ghrelin levels induced by Ex-4 may explain the reduced food intake in fasted rats, justifying the more potent anorexigenic effects of Ex-4 when compared with GLP-1. As well as the potential benefits of Ex-4 in type 2 diabetes, the potent effects of Ex-4 on ghrelin make it tempting to speculate that Ex-4 could offer a therapeutic option for PWS and other syndromes characterized by substantial amounts of circulating ghrelin.
Metabolic effects of two years of exenatide treatment on diabetes, obesity, and hepatic biomarkers in patients with type 2 diabetes: an interim analysis of data from the open-label, uncontrolled extension of three double-blind, placebo-controlled trials.	Exenatide, an incretin mimetic for adjunctive treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), reduced glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)) and weight in 30-week placebo-controlled trials. Some patients were followed up in open-label extensions to provide 'real-world' exenatide clinical experience.
Engineering prolonged-acting prodrugs employing an albumin-binding probe that undergoes slow hydrolysis at physiological conditions.	Here we describe the design and application of OSu-FMS-MAL-S-(CH(2))(15)-COOH, an agent that associates with albumin while linked to a peptide or a protein with sufficient affinity (Ka=2 to 2.6 x 10(5)M(-1)) to protract the action of short- lived peptides and proteins in vivo. Under physiological conditions this probe undergoes spontaneous hydrolysis with the concomitant reactivation of inactive conjugates. Intravenously administered (125)I-labeled-Insulin-FMS-MAL-S-(CH(2))(15)-COOH to rats shows half-life of 17+/-2h, exceeding 5.2 times that obtained with intravenously administered (125)I-labeled Insulin. In mice this derivative facilitates glucose-lowering effect over a period of 24h, yielding AUC five times greater than that obtained by a similar dose of insulin-detemir. Similarly, subcutaneous administration of Exendin-4-FMS-MAL-S-(CH(2))(15)-COOH into mice facilitated prolonged and stable reduction in glucose level, yielding a t(1/2) value of 28+/-2h, exceeding the effect of exendin-4 4.7 folds. The inactive derivative gentamicin-FMS-MAL-S-(CH(2))(15)-COOH regained its full antibacterial potency upon incubation at physiological conditions yielding a t(1/2) value of 7.1+/-0.2h. In conclusion, the albumin-binding probe we introduced enables to prolong the action of any amino containing molecule in vivo, without the drawback of inactivation that often occurs upon such derivatization.
The role of intermolecular interactions with penetratin and its analogue on the enhancement of absorption of nasal therapeutic peptides.	We investigated the relationship between intermolecular binding and the ability of novel cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) to enhance the nasal absorption of therapeutic peptides and proteins. The absorption-enhancing effect of a novel l-penetratin analogue, 'shuffle (R,K fix) 2' coadministered with different biotherapeutic peptides was evaluated after nasal administration in rats. Shuffle (R,K fix) 2 significantly increased the nasal absorption of insulin, glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1) and exendin-4, compared with the absorption seen with l-penetratin. Intermolecular binding was analyzed by surface plasmon resonance (SPR)-based binding assay. The binding characteristics implied that the higher the amount of CPP bound, the greater the nasal drug absorption. In addition, the calculated binding ratio between CPP and drug proved a critical aspect in enhancing the absorption of insulin and GLP-1. This difference in the enhancing effect of CPPs on nasal drug absorption is attributed to the degree of binding with the therapeutic macromolecule.
Effect of administration time of exenatide on satiety responses, blood glucose, and adverse events in healthy volunteers.	The objective was to investigate whether varying administration time of exenatide affects the magnitude of satiety responses, blood glucose, and adverse events in healthy volunteers. In this randomized, single-blind, placebo-controlled, 4-period crossover, single-dose study, the authors measured satiety responses, blood glucose, and adverse events in 20 participants receiving exenatide (10 µg) at either -60 minutes, -30 minutes, or -15 minutes or placebo at -30 minutes relative to a standardized test meal. Compared with placebo, exenatide reduced caloric intake (P = .0059), food intake (P = .0032), and glucose concentrations at 60 (P < .001) and 120 minutes after meals (P = .015). Nausea (63% vs 20%), reduced appetite (43% vs 10%), and vomiting (18% vs 0%) occurred more frequently in exenatide-treated subjects compared with placebo (P < .05). Significant differences were noted in caloric intake (P = .0149) and food intake (P = .0205) based on the administration time of exenatide, with doses given further from meals producing reduced feeding responses. No such difference was found in postprandial glucose concentrations or adverse events based on timing of exenatide administration. Single-dose exenatide administered further from mealtime had an increased magnitude on satiety responses in healthy volunteers. Postprandial glucose concentrations and the frequency of adverse events did not differ by the administration time of exenatide.
Effect of exenatide on fat deposition and a metabolic profile in patients with metabolic syndrome.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of exenatide on fat deposition and a metabolic profile in patients with metabolic syndrome.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist treatment prevents glucocorticoid-induced glucose intolerance and islet-cell dysfunction in humans.	Glucocorticoids (GCs) are regarded as diabetogenic because they impair insulin sensitivity and islet-cell function. This study assessed whether treatment with the glucagon-like peptide receptor agonist (GLP-1 RA) exenatide (EXE) could prevent GC-induced glucose intolerance.
The glucose-lowering potential of exendin-4 orally delivered via a pH-sensitive nanoparticle vehicle and effects on subsequent insulin secretion in vivo.	Exendin-4 is a potent insulinotropic agent in diabetes patients; however, its therapeutic utility is limited due to the frequent injections required. In this study, an orally available exendin-4 formulation, using an enteric-coated capsule containing pH-responsive NPs, was developed. Following oral administration of (123)I-labeled-exendin-4 loaded NPs in rats, the biodistribution of the administered drug was investigated using a dual isotope dynamic SPECT/CT scanner. The results showed that the radioactivity of (123)I-exendin-4 propagated from the esophagus, stomach, and small intestine and then was absorbed into the systemic circulation; with time progressing, (123)I-exendin-4 was metabolized and excreted into the urinary bladder. In the in vivo dissolution study, it was found that the enteric-coated capsule remained intact while in the stomach; the capsule was completely dissolved in the proximal segment of the small intestine and the loaded contents were then released. Oral administration of the capsule containing exendin-4 loaded NPs showed a maximum plasma concentration at 5 h after treatment; the bioavailability, relative to its subcutaneous counterpart, was found to be 14.0 ± 1.8%. The absorbed exendin-4 could then stimulate the insulin secretion and provide a prolonged glucose-lowering effect. The aforementioned results suggest that the orally available exendin-4 formulation developed warrants further exploration as a potential therapy for diabetic patients.
Weight-related quality of life, health utility, psychological well-being, and satisfaction with exenatide once weekly compared with sitagliptin or pioglitazone after 26 weeks of treatment.	To assess change in patient-reported outcomes in subjects with type 2 diabetes treated with exenatide once weekly compared with those treated with sitagliptin or pioglitazone.
Effect of exenatide on inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.	This study was designed to determine the effect of exenatide on inflammatory and oxidative stress markers in type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients who were suboptimally controlled with metformin and/or sulfonylurea.
Efficacy and safety of long-acting glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists compared with exenatide twice daily and sitagliptin in type 2 diabetes mellitus: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Long-acting glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists (LA-GLP-1RAs) may deliver additional therapeutic benefits over other available incretin-based therapies.
Exenatide and sitagliptin are not associated with increased risk of acute renal failure: a retrospective claims analysis.	This study evaluated whether the risk of acute renal failure (ARF) increases with exenatide and sitagliptin use.
Long-term cost-consequence analysis of exenatide once weekly vs sitagliptin or pioglitazone for the treatment of type 2 diabetes patients in the United States.	Exenatide once-weekly (ExQW) is a GLP-1 receptor agonist shown to lower glucose and cardiovascular risk factors in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). The objective of this study was to estimate the clinical benefits and associated economic benefits of treatment with ExQW compared with sitagliptin or pioglitazone in the US.
Effect of exenatide on the pharmacokinetics of a combination oral contraceptive in healthy women: an open-label, randomised, crossover trial.	Consistent with its effect on gastric emptying, exenatide, an injectable treatment for type 2 diabetes, may slow the absorption rate of concomitantly administered oral drugs resulting in a decrease in maximum concentration (Cmax). This study evaluated the drug interaction potential of exenatide when administered adjunctively with oral contraceptives, given their potential concomitant use.
Exenatide BID and liraglutide QD treatment patterns among type 2 diabetes patients in Germany.	This study evaluated patient and prescriber characteristics, treatment patterns, average daily dose (ADD), and glycemic control of patients initiating glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists in Germany.
Metabolic outcomes of elderly patient populations initiating exenatide BID versus insulin glargine in an ambulatory care setting.	The safety and efficacy of exenatide BID (exenatide) and insulin glargine (glargine) have been studied in clinical trials with few elderly patients. This study examined the clinical effectiveness of exenatide compared to glargine in patients 65 years and older with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
Pulmonary administered palmitic-acid modified exendin-4 peptide prolongs hypoglycemia in type 2 diabetic db/db mice.	Hypoglycemia caused by palmitic-acid modified exendin-4 (Pal-Ex4) administered via the pulmonary route was evaluated and compared with that caused by native Ex4. Pal-Ex4 and Ex4 in solution (each 50 μl) were administered using a microsprayer directly into the trachea of type 2 diabetic db/db mice at 75 or 150 nmol/kg. The lung depositions of Cy5.5-labeled Ex4 or Pal-Ex4 were monitored using an infrared imaging system after administration. The hypoglycemia caused by Pal-Ex4 was found to be 3.4 and 2.3 times greater than that caused by native Ex4 at 75 and 150 nmol/kg, respectively. Furthermore, time to blood glucose level (BGL) rebound to >150 mg/dl for Pal-Ex4 was 3.5 times greater than that of Ex4 (18.1 h vs. 5.2 h at 150 nmol/kg). In particular, the time taken for Pal-Ex4 to reach a BGL nadir was significantly greater than that of Ex4 (~8 h versus 4 h). Furthermore, lung deposition images clearly showed that Pal-Ex4 was slowly absorbed from lungs and barely distributed into kidneys until 8 h post-administration. It is likely that the prolonged hypoglycemia exhibited by Pal-Ex4 was due to; (i) delayed absorption in the lungs and (ii) albumin-binding in the circulation. The study demonstrates that palmitic acid-modified exendin-4 should be viewed as a long-acting inhalation candidate for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.
Combination exenatide-sitagliptin therapy used with glipizide in a patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus.	The case of a patient with type 2 diabetes mellitus who received combination exenatide-sitagliptin with glipizide is reported.
Exenatide twice daily versus glimepiride for prevention of glycaemic deterioration in patients with type 2 diabetes with metformin failure (EUREXA): an open-label, randomised controlled trial.	Glycaemic control deteriorates progressively over time in patients with type 2 diabetes. Options for treatment escalation remain controversial after failure of first-line treatment with metformin. We compared add-on exenatide with glimepiride for durability of glycaemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled by metformin alone.
Effects of different up-dosing regimens for hymenoptera venom immunotherapy on serum CTLA-4 and IL-10.	Cytotoxic T lymphocyte associated antigen-4 (CTLA-4) is involved in the activation pathways of T lymphocytes. It has been shown that the circulating form of CTLA-4 is elevated in patients with hymenoptera allergy and can be down regulated by immunotherapy.
A comparison of currently available GLP-1 receptor agonists for the treatment of type 2 diabetes.	Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonists are a valuable addition to the type 2 diabetes armamentarium. They increase insulin secretion and reduce glucagon secretion in a glucose-dependent manner, posing a relatively low hypoglycemia risk. GLP-1 receptor agonists also offer weight-loss benefits. Because GLP-1 receptor agonists are relatively new agents, there is limited direction on their use.
Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor activation reverses cardiac remodeling via normalizing cardiac steatosis and oxidative stress in type 2 diabetes.	Glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) agonist exendin-4 (Ex-4) is a remedy for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM). Ex-4 ameliorates cardiac dysfunction induced by myocardial infarction in preclinical and clinical settings. However, it remains unclear whether Ex-4 may modulate diabetic cardiomyopathy. We tested the impact of Ex-4 on two types of diabetic cardiomyopathy models, genetic (KK) and acquired T2DM induced by high-fat diet [diet-induced obesity (DIO)], to clarify whether Ex-4 may combat independently of etiology. Each type of mice was divided into Ex-4 (24 nmol·kg(-1)·day(-1) for 40 days; KK-ex4 and DIO-ex4) and vehicle (KK-v and DIO-v) groups. Ex-4 ameliorated systemic and cardiac insulin resistance and dyslipidemia in both T2DM models. T2DM mice exhibited systolic (DIO-v) and diastolic (DIO-v and KK-v) left ventricular dysfunctions, which were restored by Ex-4 with reduction in left ventricular hypertrophy. DIO-v and KK-v exhibited increased myocardial fibrosis and steatosis (lipid accumulation), in which were observed cardiac mitochondrial remodeling and enhanced mitochondrial oxidative damage. Ex-4 treatment reversed these cardiac remodeling and oxidative stress. Cytokine array revealed that Ex-4-sensitive inflammatory cytokines were ICAM-1 and macrophage colony-stimulating factor. Ex-4 ameliorated myocardial oxidative stress via suppression of NADPH oxidase 4 with concomitant elevation of antioxidants (SOD-1 and glutathione peroxidase). In conclusion, GLP-1R agonism reverses cardiac remodeling and dysfunction observed in T2DM via normalizing imbalance of lipid metabolism and related inflammation/oxidative stress. 
Combination therapy via oral co-administration of insulin- and exendin-4-loaded nanoparticles to treat type 2 diabetic rats undergoing OGTT.	Current insulin therapy via subcutaneous administration can lead to occasional hypoglycemia and peripheral hyperinsulinemia, due to its nonphysiological route. This study evaluates the feasibility of using bovine insulin and exendin-4 in a form of combination therapy, as orally delivered by nanoparticles composed of chitosan and poly(γ-glutamic acid) (CS/γPGA NPs), to control blood glucose levels in rats with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) undergoing the oral glucose tolerance test. Experimental results indicate that CS/γPGA NPs could enhance the intestinal paracellular permeation; consequently, the exogenous bovine insulin and exendin-4 could be delivered into the liver and pancreas, where they could elicit their glucoregulatory activities. In response to the stimulus of exogenously delivered bovine insulin and the endogenously secreted rat insulin stimulated by the ingested exendin-4, significant glucose utilizations were found in the cardiac and skeletal muscles, resulting in the glucose-lowering effect. Owing to its synergic stimulation effects, the hypoglycemic effect of oral ingestion of NPs containing bovine insulin and exendin-4 was significantly greater than that of the group solely treated with insulin NPs. Above results demonstrate that oral combination therapy with bovine insulin and exendin-4 improves the modulation of blood glucose levels in T2DM rats, making it highly promising for treating those T2DM patients not adequately controlled by the current insulin therapy. 
Preparation of uniform-sized exenatide-loaded PLGA microspheres as long-effective release system with high encapsulation efficiency and bio-stability.	Exenatide-loaded poly(d,l-lactic-co-glycolic acid) (PLGA) microspheres hold great potential as a drug delivery system to treat type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) because they can overcome the shortcoming of exenatide's short half-life and realize sustained efficacy. However, conventional preparation methods often lead to microspheres with a broad size distribution, which in turn would cause poor preparation repeatability, drug efficacy and so forth. In this study, we used Shirasu Porous Glass (SPG) premix membrane emulsification technique characterized with high trans-membrane flux and size controllability to prepare uniform-sized PLGA microspheres. By optimizing trans-membrane pressure and PVA concentration in external aqueous phase, uniform-sized PLGA microspheres with large size (around 20μm) were successfully obtained. To achieve high encapsulation efficiency (EE) and improve in vitro release behavior, we have carefully examined the process parameters. Our results show that using ultrasonication to form primary emulsion, microspheres with high EE were easily obtained, but the rate of in vitro release was very slow. Instead, high EE and appropriate in vitro release were achieved when homogenization with optimized time and speed were employed. Besides, we also systematically investigated the effect of formulations on loading efficiency (LE) as well as the relationship between the resultant size of the microspheres and pore size of the membrane. Finally, through RP-HPLC and CD spectra analysis, we have demonstrated that the bio-stability of exenatide in microspheres was preserved during the preparation process. 
Exenatide twice daily versus insulin glargine for the treatment of type 2 diabetes in Poland - subgroup data from a randomised multinational trial GWAA.	We explored the safety and efficacy of exenatide BID v. insulin glargine in a subgroup of Polish patients with type 2 diabetes sub-optimally controlled with metformin plus a sulfonylurea, participating in a 26-week randomised, controlled open-label trial.
Pathophysiological and pharmacological rationale for the use of exenatide once weekly in patients with type 2 diabetes.	A new formulation of exenatide has become available recently that is the first antidiabetic medication for type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) dosed on a weekly schedule. This review summarizes the pharmacology, efficacy, and safety of exenatide once weekly (exenatide QW). The results are interpreted in terms of the pathophysiology of T2DM, as well as the pharmacology of the new formulation.
Continuous subcutaneous delivery of exenatide via ITCA 650 leads to sustained glycemic control and weight loss for 48 weeks in metformin-treated subjects with type 2 diabetes.	Evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of ITCA 650 in subjects with type 2 diabetes treated for up to 48 weeks.
Insect sting allergy.	Hymenoptera venom is a well recognized cause of allergic reactions. These allergic reactions are common and may at times be life threatening. Precautions such as avoidance and the possession (and use) of epinephrine can decrease the incidence and severity of such reactions. Venom immunotherapy is the treatment of choice in those patients who have had systemic allergic reactions and are shown to be vespid allergic by skin testing.
Low-dosage ancrod for prevention of thrombotic complications after surgery for fractured neck of femur.	The effect of a low-dosage regimen of ancrod in the prevention of postoperative deep vein thrombosis was assessed in 24 patients having surgical repair of fractured neck femur and compared with 25 control patients who did not receive therapy. The objective of the therapy was to lower the preoperative fibrinogen level and produce a low concentration of fibrin degradation products yet avoid the haemorrhagic complications of total defibrination. Ancrod therapy proved feasible to carry out, was not associated with haemorrhagic complications, and produced sustained, predictable reductions in fibrinogen concentration. There were seven thromboembolic complications in the control patients compared to one such complication in the ancrod-treated patients. Five deaths occurred in the control group and one in the treated group. Though the incidence of deep vein thrombosis was not apparently affected by ancrod it appeared on venography that the thrombi in the treated patients were less extensive than those in the control patients. Finally, some discrepancies in the diagnosis of deep vein thrombosis by the three techniques of clinical examination, (125)I-fibrinogen scanning, and ascending venography were identified.
