Anticardiolipin antibodies in chronic hepatitis B and chronic hepatitis D infection, and hepatitis B-related hepatocellular carcinoma. Relationship with portal vein thrombosis.	To assess the presence of anticardiolipin antibodies (ACAs) in patients with chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, chronic hepatitis D virus (HDV) infection and HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and to associate this with the incidence of portal vein thrombosis (PVT) in HCC patients.
Clinical significance of antiphospholipid antibodies in Indian scleroderma patients.	In patients with systemic sclerosis (SSc), antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL) have been reported to be associated with more severe manifestations including digital infarct, gangrene and pulmonary hypertension. But these findings are not consistent in all studies; moreover, there are no data available from Indian subcontinent. The objective of this study is to assess the prevalence of antiphospholipid antibodies in Indian SSc patients and correlate them with clinical and immunological features. Seventy-two patients were recruited prospectively from rheumatology clinic from 2002 to 2006. Their medical records were reviewed. Anticardiolipin antibodies (IgG, IgM) by ELISA and lupus anticoagulant (LA) were tested in standardized pattern and repeated after 6 weeks. Anti-β2 glycoprotein-I antibodies were done in patients who had aPL antibodies. Nineteen patients had diffuse cutaneous SSc and 53 had limited disease. Seven patients (9.7%) were positive for aPL antibodies in their sera. Only one patient had clinical features of antiphospholipid antibody syndrome and manifested with recurrent abortions and deep vein thrombosis. She was positive for aCL, LA and anti-β2 glycoprotein-I antibodies. Four patients were only aCL (IgG) positive in moderate titers and one each had only aCL (IgM) and LAC positivity. None of the clinical parameters showed an association with aPL antibody.
Prevention of thrombosis relapse in antiphospholipid syndrome patients refractory to conventional therapy using intravenous immunoglobulin.	To investigate the long-term effects of megadoses of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) in a small cohort of patients with relapsing primary APS resistant to conventional treatments.
Antithrombotic activity of a monoclonal antibody inducing the substrate form of plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 in rat models of venous and arterial thrombosis.	1. Elevated plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 (PAI-1) is a risk factor for thrombosis, and inhibitors of the interaction between PAI-1 and tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) have antithrombotic and prothrombolytic activity in animals. We describe the antithrombotic effects in the rat of a monoclonal antibody (MA33H1) which converts PAI-1 to a non-inhibitory substrate. 2. The activity of MA33H1 against rat PAI-1 was confirmed using two-chain t-PA and a chromogenic substrate. MA33H1 was evaluated in rat venous (thromboplastin + stasis in the abdominal vena cava) and arterial (electric current applied to a carotid artery) thrombosis models. The effects on tail-transection bleeding time were studied. 3. MA33H1 at 100 ng ml(-1) inhibited both human (44.1%) and rat PAI-1 (49.7%). This effect was concentration-dependent. Its effect on human PAI-1 was not significantly inhibited by 1 microg ml(-1) fibrin or a approximately 7 fold molar excess of vitronectin (1 nM). Inhibition of rat PAI-1 was unchanged by fibrin, but vitronectin reduced inhibition from 0.5 nM. 4. In the venous thrombosis model, MA33H1 significantly reduced thrombus weights by 38 and 58.6% at 50 and 100 microg kg(-1) min(-1) i.v. respectively. This effect was inhibited by tranexamic acid. In the arterial model, MA33H1 significantly increased the delay to occlusive thrombus formation by 58 and 142% at 50 and 100 microg kg(-1) min(-1) i.v., and did not affect bleeding time at 300 microg kg(-1) min(-1) i.v. 5. Thus, a monoclonal antibody which transforms PAI-1 to a t-PA substrate prevents thrombus formation in the rat with no effect on bleeding time at a higher dose.
