Physiology: postprandial cardiac hypertrophy in pythons.	Oxygen consumption by carnivorous reptiles increases enormously after they have eaten a large meal in order to meet metabolic demands, and this places an extra load on the cardiovascular system. Here we show that there is an extraordinarily rapid 40% increase in ventricular muscle mass in Burmese pythons (Python molurus) a mere 48 hours after feeding, which results from increased gene expression of muscle-contractile proteins. As this fully reversible hypertrophy occurs naturally, it could provide a useful model for investigating the mechanisms that lead to cardiac growth in other animals.
Nuclear co-translocation of myotrophin and p65 stimulates myocyte growth. Regulation by myotrophin hairpin loops.	Myotrophin, a 12-kDa ankyrin repeat protein, stimulates protein synthesis and cardiomyocyte growth to initiate cardiac hypertrophy by activating the NF-kappaB signaling cascade. We found that, after internalization into myocytes, myotrophin cotranslocates into the nucleus with p65 to stimulate myocyte growth. We used structure-based mutations on the hairpin loops of myotrophin to determine the effect of the loops on myotrophin and p65 localization, induction of protein synthesis, and cardiac hypertrophy. Loop mutants, most prominently glutamic acid 33-->alanine (E33A), stimulated protein synthesis much less than wild type. Myotrophin-E33A internalized into myocytes but did not translocate into the nucleus and failed to promote nuclear translocation of p65. In addition, two cardiac hypertrophy marker genes, atrial natriuretic factor and beta-myosin heavy chain, were not up-regulated in E33A-treated cells. Myotrophin-induced myocyte growth and initiation of hypertrophy thus require nuclear co-translocation of myotrophin and p65, in a manner that depends crucially on the myotrophin hairpin loops.
Cardiac and skeletal muscle expression of mutant β-myosin heavy chains, degree of functional impairment and phenotypic heterogeneity in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Several mutations in distinct genes, all coding for sarcomeric proteins, have been reported in unrelated kindreds with familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (FHC). We have identified nine individuals from three families harboring two distinct mutations in one copy of the β-myosin heavy chain (β-MHC) gene. In this study, the expression of the mutant β-myosin protein isoform, isolated from slow-twitch fibers of skeletal muscle, was demonstrated by Northern and Western blot analysis; this myosin showed a decreased in vitro motility activity and produced a lower actin-activated ATPase activity. Isometric tension, measured in single slow-twitch fibers isolated from the affected individuals, also showed a significant decrease. The degree of impairment of β-myosin function, as well as the loss in isometric tension development, were strictly dependent on the amount of the isoform transcribed from the mutated allele. Interestingly, a strong correlation was also demonstrated between mutant β-myosin content and clinical features of FHC. On the other hand, we were unable to detect any correlation between mutant β-myosin expression and degree of cardiac hypertrophy, thereby strengthening the hypothesis that hypertrophy, one of the hallmarks of FHC, might not necessarily be related to the clinical evolution of this disease. These findings lend support to the notion that additional factors rather than the mutated gene may play a pathogenetic role in cardiac wall thickening, whereas the prognosis appears to be strongly related to the amount of mutant protein.
Art27 interacts with GATA4, FOG2 and NKX2.5 and is a novel co-repressor of cardiac genes.	Transcription factors play a crucial role in regulation of cardiac biology. FOG-2 is indispensable in this setting, predominantly functioning through a physical interaction with GATA-4. This study aimed to identify novel co-regulators of FOG-2 to further elaborate on its inhibitory activity on GATA-4. The Art27 transcription factor was identified by a yeast-2-hybrid library screen to be a novel FOG-2 protein partner. Characterisation revealed that Art27 is co-expressed with FOG-2 and GATA-4 throughout cardiac myocyte differentiation and in multiple structures of the adult heart. Art27 physically interacts with GATA-4, FOG-2 and other cardiac transcription factors and by this means, down-regulates their activity on cardiac specific promoters α-myosin heavy chain, atrial natriuretic peptide and B-type natriuretic peptide. Regulation of endogenous cardiac genes by Art27 was shown using microarray analysis of P19CL6-Mlc2v-GFP cardiomyocytes. Together these results suggest that Art27 is a novel transcription factor that is involved in downregulation of cardiac specific genes by physically interacting and inhibiting the activity of crucial transcriptions factors involved in cardiac biology. 
