Rat chromosome 19 transfer from SHR ameliorates hypertension, salt-sensitivity, cardiovascular and renal organ damage in salt-sensitive Dahl rats.	Unlike Dahl salt-sensitive (SS) rats, some strains of spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats develop only minor organ damage even when exposed to high-salt diet. In previous linkage studies, we identified quantitative trait loci on rat chromosome 19 (RNO19) linked to the SHR allele suggesting a protective effect against salt-induced hypertensive organ damage in SS.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: preclinical and early phenotype.	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is caused by dominant mutations in sarcomere genes. Although the diagnosis of HCM is traditionally based on identifying unexplained left ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) by cardiac imaging, LVH is not an invariable feature of disease. The expression of LVH is highly age-dependent, and LV wall thickness is typically normal during childhood. Overt cardiac hypertrophy often does not develop until adolescence or later. With genetic testing, family members who have inherited a pathogenic sarcomere mutation (G+) can be identified prior to a clinical diagnosis (LVH-). This allows characterization of a new and important subset, denoted preclinical HCM (G+/LVH-). Although there are no distinguishing morphologic features of early disease, there is evidence of myocardial dysfunction prior to the development of LVH. Otherwise healthy sarcomere mutation carriers frequently have subtle impairment of diastolic function, detectable by tissue Doppler interrogation. These findings can assist in differentiating such at-risk family members from those who did not inherit the mutation, despite the presence of normal LV wall thickness. In contrast, systolic function appears relatively preserved in preclinical HCM but impaired in overt disease, suggesting that both the sarcomere mutation and the characteristic changes in myocardial architecture (LVH, fibrosis, and disarray) are required to perturb force generation. Better characterization of preclinical HCM will identify the initial manifestations of sarcomere mutations, characterize intermediate disease phenotypes, and foster efforts to develop novel therapeutic strategies based on genetic identification of at-risk individuals and early initiation of therapy to prevent disease progression when treatment may be most effective.
Spatial and temporal heterogeneities are localized to the right ventricular outflow tract in a heterozygotic Scn5a mouse model.	Ventricular tachycardia (VT) in Brugada Syndrome patients often originates in the right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT). We explore the physiological basis for this observation using murine whole heart preparations. Ventricular bipolar electrograms and monophasic action potentials were recorded from seven epicardial positions in Langendorff-perfused wild-type and Scn5a+/- hearts. VT first appeared in the RVOT, implicating it as an arrhythmogenic focus in Scn5a+/- hearts. RVOTs showed the greatest heterogeneity in refractory periods, response latencies, and action potential durations, and the most fractionated electrograms. However, incidences of concordant alternans in dynamic pacing protocol recordings were unaffected by the Scn5a+/- mutation or pharmacological intervention. Conversely, particularly at the RVOT, Scn5a+/- hearts showed earlier and more frequent transitions into discordant alternans. This was accentuated by flecainide, but reduced by quinidine, in parallel with their respective pro- and anti-arrhythmic effects. Discordant alternans preceded all episodes of VT. The RVOT of Scn5a+/- hearts also showed steeper restitution curves, with the diastolic interval at which the gradient equaled one strongly correlating with the diastolic interval at which discordant alternans commenced. We attribute the arrhythmic tendency within the RVOT to the greater spatial heterogeneities in baseline electrophysiological properties. These, in turn, give rise to a tendency to drive concordant alternans phenomena into an arrhythmogenic discordant alternans. Our findings may contribute to future work investigating possible pharmacological treatments for a disease in which the current mainstay of treatment is implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation.
Increased left ventricular torsion in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy mutation carriers with normal wall thickness.	Increased left ventricular (LV) torsion has been observed in patients with manifest familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), and is thought to be caused by subendocardial dysfunction. We hypothesize that increased LV torsion is already present in healthy mutation carriers with normal wall thickness.
Shortening and intracellular Ca2+ in ventricular myocytes and expression of genes encoding cardiac muscle proteins in early onset type 2 diabetic Goto-Kakizaki rats.	There has been a spectacular rise in the global prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus. Cardiovascular complications are the major cause of morbidity and mortality in diabetic patients. Contractile dysfunction, associated with disturbances in excitation-contraction coupling, has been widely demonstrated in the diabetic heart. The aim of this study was to investigate the pattern of cardiac muscle genes that are involved in the process of excitation-contraction coupling in the hearts of early onset (8-10 weeks of age) type 2 diabetic Goto-Kakizaki (GK) rats. Gene expression was assessed in ventricular muscle with real-time RT-PCR; shortening and intracellular Ca(2+) were measured in ventricular myocytes with video edge detection and fluorescence photometry, respectively. The general characteristics of the GK rats included elevated fasting and non-fasting blood glucose and blood glucose at 120 min following a glucose challenge. Expression of genes encoding cardiac muscle proteins (Myh6/7, Mybpc3, Myl1/3, Actc1, Tnni3, Tnn2, Tpm1/2/4 and Dbi) and intercellular proteins (Gja1/4/5/7, Dsp and Cav1/3) were unaltered in GK ventricle compared with control ventricle. The expression of genes encoding some membrane pumps and exchange proteins was unaltered (Atp1a1/2, Atp1b1 and Slc8a1), whilst others were either upregulated (Atp1a3, relative expression 2.61 ± 0.69 versus 0.84 ± 0.23) or downregulated (Slc9a1, 0.62 ± 0.07 versus 1.08 ± 0.08) in GK ventricle compared with control ventricle. The expression of genes encoding some calcium (Cacna1c/1g, Cacna2d1/2d2 and Cacnb1/b2), sodium (Scn5a) and potassium channels (Kcna3/5, Kcnj3/5/8/11/12, Kchip2, Kcnab1, Kcnb1, Kcnd1/2/3, Kcne1/4, Kcnq1, Kcng2, Kcnh2, Kcnk3 and Kcnn2) were unaltered, whilst others were either upregulated (Cacna1h, 0.95 ± 0.16 versus 0.47 ± 0.09; Scn1b, 1.84 ± 0.16 versus 1.11 ± 0.11; and Hcn2, 1.55 ± 0.15 versus 1.03 ± 0.08) or downregulated (Hcn4, 0.16 ± 0.03 versus 0.37 ± 0.08; Kcna2, 0.35 ± 0.03 versus 0.80 ± 0.11; Kcna4, 0.79 ± 0.25 versus 1.90 ± 0.26; and Kcnj2, 0.52 ± 0.07 versus 0.78 ± 0.08) in GK ventricle compared with control ventricle. The amplitude of ventricular myocyte shortening and the intracellular Ca(2+) transient were unaltered; however, the time-to-peak shortening was prolonged and time-to-half decay of the Ca(2+) transient was shortened in GK myocytes compared with control myocytes. The results of this study demonstrate changes in expression of genes encoding various excitation-contraction coupling proteins that are associated with disturbances in myocyte shortening and intracellular Ca(2+) transport.
