Breath-hold device for laboratory rodents undergoing imaging procedures.	The increased use in noninvasive imaging of laboratory rodents has prompted innovative techniques in animal handling. Lung imaging of rodents can be a difficult task because of tissue motion caused by breathing, which affects image quality. The use of a prototype flat-panel computed tomography unit allows the acquisition of images in as little as 2, 4, or 8 s. This short acquisition time has allowed us to improve the image quality of this instrument by performing a breath-hold during image acquisition. We designed an inexpensive and safe method for performing a constant-pressure breath-hold in intubated rodents. Initially a prototypic manual 3-way valve system, consisting of a 3-way valve, an air pressure regulator, and a manometer, was used to manually toggle between the ventilator and the constant-pressure breath-hold equipment. The success of the manual 3-way valve system prompted the design of an electronically actuated valve system. In the electronic system, the manual 3-way valve was replaced with a custom designed 3-way valve operated by an electrical solenoid. The electrical solenoid is triggered by using a hand-held push button or a foot pedal that is several feet away from the gantry of the scanner. This system has provided improved image quality and is safe for the animals, easy to use, and reliable.
Severe hypercarbia resulting from inspiratory valve malfunction in two anesthetized horses.	Severe hypercarbia was documented by arterial blood gas analysis in 2 adult horses anesthetized for exploratory laparotomy. Both horses appeared to be adequately anesthetized, but continued to breathe against the ventilator. In both cases, the inspiratory valve on the anesthesia machine was found to be stuck open, permitting expired CO2 to return to the inspiratory limb of the anesthetic circuit and to be inhaled with the next breath. Correction of the malfunctioning valve alleviated the hypercarbia. Problems with the flow valves of the anesthesia machine should be suspected when anesthetized horses breathe against the ventilator and develop severe hypercarbia.
Use of a simulation of the ventilator-patient interaction as an active learning exercise: comparison with traditional lecture.	Research suggests that simulation technology has potential to enhance student achievement, particularly for students having a preference for hands-on learning. The aim of this study was to compare ventilation learning outcomes in students attending traditional lecture versus students using an active learning ventilation simulation. A computer simulation was developed to advance students' learning of mechanical ventilation. Forty-one students were divided into upper and lower strata based on performance rankings and were then randomly assigned to first complete a simulation scenario or view a lecture. Two distinct ventilation topics, controls and clinical, were developed for each instructional method. Students completed examinations three weeks following each respective instructional intervention (lecture or simulation scenarios) as well as one long-term examination and survey six weeks following the second examination. Upper-ranking students who learned the clinical topic through the simulation scenarios outperformed students who learned by traditional lecture. In addition, upper-ranking students scored higher than lower-ranking students in both the clinical and long-term composite examinations. No differences in student scores attributed to instructional method or class rank were identified for the controls topic. Survey results indicated that students were more engaged as learners when using the simulation and wished to have the simulation available during their clinical intensive care unit (ICU) rotations. Use of the simulation was associated with improved performance of upper-ranking students on the clinical-topic exam and was equivalent to lecture as an instructional intervention on the controls-topic exam. The simulation was perceived as an engaging, desirable tool providing immediate feedback.
A simple device for respiratory resuscitation of newborn calves and lambs.	The neonatal death of calves and lambs is responsible for a heavy financial loss to the farming industry; respiratory failure accounts for 6 per cent of the post parturient deaths in lambs. A simple method of pulmonary resuscitation with expired air is described employing a device portable and simple enough for emergency use by herdsmen and shepherds. The rationale of the use of the equipment is explained.
Evaluation of a modification of the Hudson demand valve in ventilated and spontaneously breathing horses.	Hypoxaemia commonly develops during general anaesthesia and in the recovery period in horses. The Hudson demand valve has been used to increase arterial PO2, but it has been found to increase airway resistance considerably when used during spontaneous ventilation. This paper evaluates a modification of the valve designed to reduce this resistance. The effects of the valve and its modification on arterial oxygen (PaO2), and carbon dioxide (PaCO2) tensions were evaluated in four ponies anaesthetised by a total intravenous technique. The valve increased PaO2 from 8.3 +/- 1.1 to 32.7 +/- 7.6 kPa during spontaneous ventilation and to 44.2 +/- 7.4 kPa during intermittent positive pressure ventilation. With the modification, the PaCO2 was increased to 9.0 +/- 2.5 kPa during spontaneous ventilation PaO2 was unchanged by the valve (7.2 +/- 0.4 kPa to 7.1 +/- 0.7 kPa) but it was reduced to 6.4 +/- 0.9 kPa with the modification. The valve was also evaluated in 20 clinical cases during their recovery from halothane anaesthesia. It increased PaO2 from 7.4 +/- 2.1 kPa to 17 +/- 18.3 kPa during spontaneous ventilation and from 8.0 +/- 1.8 kPa to 23.4 +/- 22.2 kPa during positive pressure ventilation. With the modification, PaO2 was increased from 7.8 +/- 1.4 kPa to 10.4 +/- 3.8 kPa during spontaneous ventilation and from 7.6 +/- 1.5 kPa to 14.8 +/- 8.4 kPa during positive pressure ventilation. During spontaneous ventilation PaCO2 was increased from 5.9 +/- 0.4 kPa to 6.2 +/- 0.6 kPa with the unmodified valve and from 6.3 +/- 0.5 kPa to 6.6 +/- 0.5 kPa with the modification.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
