Ventricular thrombus and subarachnoid bleeding during support with ventricular assist devices.	We report the case of a 23-year-old man with acute aortic valve insufficiency caused by endocarditis, who after emergency aortic valve replacement developed biventricular heart failure. The heart failure was treated with temporary assist devices. Subarachnoid bleeding and thrombus obstruction of the left ventricular outflow tract was detected. The postoperative course is presented with special emphasis on management of subarachnoid bleeding and the simultaneous use of anticoagulation necessary for ventricular assist devices.
Aortic valve stenosis with left ventricular outflow tract pressure gradient.	A 61-year-old man was diagnosed with severe aortic valve stenosis with left ventricular outflow tract pressure gradient due to systolic anterior movement of the mitral valve and a large poststenotic dilation of the ascending aorta. He underwent successful aortic root replacement and concomitant septal myectomy.
Influence of superior vena caval zone condition on cyclic changes in right ventricular outflow during respiratory support.	Adequate fluid resuscitation in critically ill patients undergoing mechanical ventilation remains a difficult challenge, and diastolic and systolic right ventricular (RV) changes produced by positive airway pressure are important to consider in an individual patient with inadequate circulatory adaptation during respiratory support. We hypothesized that insufficient thoracic vena cava filling, predisposing to inspiratory collapse (zone 2 condition), may transiently affect RV outflow.
Aortoventriculoplasty in a patient with complex left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, mitral valve stenosis and aneurysm of the ascending aorta.	We describe a new method of aortoventriculoplasty in a patient with calcified mitral stenosis, aortic valvular stenosis, severe left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, and aneurysm of the ascending aorta. This complex pathology was successfully treated with replacement of both the valves and a tubular dacron graft. The proximal end of the dacron tube was tailored as a patch for the repair of the ventricular septum and the aortic root, and the distal end was anastomosed to the distal ascending aorta. The patient had an uneventful recovery and postoperative echocardiography showed no significant residual gradient on the left ventricular outflow tract.
Unruptured aneurysm of the sinus of Valsalva presenting with right ventricular outflow obstruction.	Sinus of Valsalva aneurysms rarely present until rupture occurs. We describe the case of a patient who presented with acute right heart failure and upon investigation was found to have an unruptured sinus of Valsalva aneurysm causing right ventricular outflow obstruction; there was an associated subaortic ventricular septal defect. To the best of our knowledge, only 1 other case with these features has been reported in the medical literature. The diagnosis was made by transthoracic echocardiography and cardiac catheterization. Through an aortic and right ventricular approach, we successfully excised the aneurysmal right coronary sinus, closed the ventricular septal defect, and replaced the aortic valve.
Endocarditis abscess of the aortic annulus involving the left ventricular inferior wall and causing a moderate aortic systolic obstruction: diagnosis by transthoracic and transesophageal echocardiography.	Abscesses are an important and potentially devastating complication of aortic valve endocarditis. The extension of the infectious process from the aortic valve to surrounding tissue can occur in different directions. This case report describes a 28-year-old man in whom the abscess of the aortic annulus was very large, causing a moderate aortic systolic obstruction, and also involved the left ventricular inferior wall. The diagnosis was provided by a combination of TTE and TEE examination and was confirmed by cardiac surgery.
Left ventricular outflow tract obstruction in transposition of the great arteries. Correlation between anatomic and echocardiographic findings]	Left ventricle outflow tract obstructions in transposition of the great arteries are frequent. We report the correlations between two-dimensional echocardiographic and autopsy findings to draw attention to the usefulness of this diagnostic method in the preoperative evaluation of these anomalies.
Impact of dual-chamber permanent pacing in patients with obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with symptoms refractory to verapamil and beta-adrenergic blocker therapy.	Patients with obstructive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) with symptoms refractory to drugs (beta-blockers or verapamil) are candidates for cardiac surgery (left ventricular septal myectomy or mitral valve replacement). The present study examines prospectively the ability of dual-chamber (DDD) pacing to improve symptoms and relieve left ventricular outflow obstruction in such patients.
Characterization of left ventricular diastolic function by tissue Doppler imaging and clinical status in children with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Conventional transmitral Doppler indices are unreliable in assessing clinical status in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) because they are affected by loading conditions. This study sought to determine whether tissue Doppler velocities are predictive of adverse clinical outcomes including death, cardiac arrest, ventricular tachycardia (VT), significant cardiac symptoms, and exercise capacity in children with HCM.
Successful surgical management of a neonate with a saddle pulmonary embolus.	A female neonate presented with evidence of a massive ventilation-perfusion mismatch. She was subsequently found to have a saddle pulmonary embolus. The infant successfully underwent surgical pulmonary embolectomy.
Use of the Alfieri edge-to-edge technique to eliminate left ventricular outflow tract obstruction caused by mitral systolic anterior motion.	A 68-year-old woman with concentric left ventricular hypertrophy, prosthetic valve endocarditis with aortic root abscess, and sepsis had aortic root replacement with an aortic allograft. On weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass, she had hemodynamic instability caused by systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve, which resulted in a left ventricular outflow tract obstruction; the peak pressure gradient across the left ventricular outflow tract was 130 mm Hg, and there was moderately severe (3+) mitral regurgitation. After reinstitution of cardiopulmonary bypass, a central Alfieri edge-to-edge stitch was placed between the anterior and posterior leaflets of the mitral valve. This reduced the gradient across the left ventricular outflow tract to 10 mm Hg and eliminated the mitral regurgitation, which enabled successful separation from cardiopulmonary bypass.
Leiomyosarcoma--an unusual cause of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction.	A 76-year-old female patient was admitted with progressive dyspnea on exertion, signs of right ventricular failure, and severe pulmonary stenosis. Intraoperatively an infiltrating right ventricular outflow tract (RVOT) tumor was found and xenograft conduit replacement was performed successfully. Histological examination revealed primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma, the patient was discharged and is in good health condition at 9 months' follow-up. Unusual causes of RVOT obstruction should be considered.
One-and-a-half ventricle repair for right ventricular endomyocardial fibrosis.	One-and-a-half ventricle repair, consisting of endocardiectomy with tricuspid valve replacement and bidirectional cavopulmonary shunt, was performed on a patient with right ventricular endomyocardial fibrosis and right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. The patient made a smooth recovery. We believe that this repair provides good palliation for a subset of patients with right ventricular endomyocardial fibrosis.
Cystic subaortic discrete membrane in an elderly woman.	A discrete subaortic membrane is an uncommon cause of left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) obstruction in patients of advanced age. Here, a significant LVOT obstruction caused by a discrete membrane is reported in a 64-year-old woman. On echocardiographic examination the membrane had a cystic appearance. To the present authors' knowledge, this is the first reported case of a cystic subaortic membrane.
Surgical treatment for primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma causing right ventricular outflow obstruction.	A 55-year-old man was admitted to another hospital because of dry cough and dyspnea that rapidly worsened before admission. Chest computed tomography revealed a low-density mass that nearly obstructed the main pulmonary arterial trunk. Pulmonary thromboembolism was suspected and treated with catheter-directed thrombolysis therapy. Despite optimal thrombolysis and anticoagulant therapy, his symptoms persisted. He was referred for further examination and possible surgery for presumed pulmonary thromboembolism. The mass appeared more likely to be a tumor than a thrombus on careful analysis of the magnetic resonance imaging. At surgery, the anterior wall of the main pulmonary arterial trunk, the pulmonary valve, annulus, and the right ventricular outflow tract were all invaded by what was found to be a tumor and were resected under conventional cardiopulmonary bypass. The resected area was reconstructed with a 25-mm-diameter bioprosthetic valve and Xenomedica patch. Final pathological diagnosis was primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma involving the pulmonary valve. Postoperative course was uneventful, and he was discharged 11 days after surgery without adjuvant therapy because he refused it. Ten months later, the patient was well, but a chest X-ray revealed some coin lesions in the bilateral lung fields that were thought to be metastatic tumor.
Double-chambered right ventricle in adulthood.	Patients with double-chambered right ventricle presenting with symptoms in adulthood are rare. From 1990 to 2004, 4 adults and 9 children with double-chambered right ventricle underwent surgical correction. The surgical results and clinical data of the adults were compared with those of the pediatric patients. All adult patients had dyspnea on exertion, 3 children showed growth delay but the others were asymptomatic. The mean age at operation was 44.5 +/- 6.3 years in adults and 5.2 +/- 1.9 years in children. The mean pressure gradient between the anatomically lower right ventricle and the pulmonary artery was significantly higher in adults than in children (91.8 +/- 14.1 vs. 42.2 +/- 5.9 mm Hg). The pulmonary-to-systemic flow ratio in adults was significantly lower than in pediatric patients (1.2 +/- 0.2 vs. 1.8 +/- 0.3). All adults and 8 of the 9 children survived. There were no late deaths or re-operations, and all survivors were in New York Heart Association functional class I. Surgical correction of double-chambered right ventricle in adults gave satisfactory midterm results although right ventricular outflow tract obstruction and clinical symptoms were severe in these patients.
Obstruction of right ventricular outflow tract caused by intracavitary metastatic disease: analysis of 14 cases.	Obstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract from metastatic disease is rare. Eleven previous case reports and three new cases are presented. Two tumor types (pancreas and breast), not previously associated with right ventricular outflow tract obstruction, are included. Congestive symptoms, systolic murmur and right axis deviation or right bundle branch conduction abnormality were universal features. Echocardiography is valuable in the delineation of metastatic cardiac involvement and the detection of intracardiac gradients. Adverse hemodynamic consequences developed in 3 of 10 patients who underwent right heart catheterization in which two died. This procedure should be performed only when absolutely necessary. Metastatic obstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract should be considered in the absence of widespread malignancy because the heart was the sole site of metastasis in 5 of 10 autopsy patients. Two patients with solitary cardiac metastasis benefited from resection of the obstructing tumor, underscoring the importance of early identification of this subgroup.
Cardiac strangulation with permanent epicardial pacemaker lead]	A 3-year-old boy underwent corrective surgery for tetralogy of Fallot. During the operation, permanent epicardial pacemaker leads were implanted for complete A-V block, which was transient and a generator implantation was not necessary. The postoperative course was uneventful and he had been doing well until nine years of age, when he was admitted to our hospital with general fatigue. The data of echo cardiogram and cardiac catheterization showed the biventricular heart failure with right ventricular outflow tract obstruction (RVOTO). Because of his rapid deterioration refractory to the intensive medical therapy, semi-emergency surgery was recommended to relieve his RVOTO. It was found during the operation that the looped pacemaker leads had carved deeply in the atrioventricular groove, so that compressed the main pulmonary artery, left main coronary artery and encircled left ventricle. The pacemaker leads were dissected as long as possible, and cut segmentally. Additionally a patch enlargement of the main pulmonary artery was necessary to relieve the residual stenosis. Although IABP support was needed in a while, his postoperative course was uneventful, and postoperative examinations showed normal cardiac function. This rare complication, so called "cardiac strangulation", should be in mind when the implantation of permanent pacemaker leads is indicated in pediatric cases.
Metastatic cardiac malignant fibrous histiocytoma presenting as right ventricular outflow tract obstruction.	An unusual case of metastatic disease of the right ventricle is described in a 74-year-old woman who had presented with a malignant fibrous histiocytoma of the right thigh previously treated with surgery and radiotherapy. Two years later she presented with signs and symptoms of tricuspid regurgitation and right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. The diagnosis of right ventricular tumor was made by echocardiographic and angiographic studies and confirmed on postmortem examination.
Left ventricular outflow tract obstruction and sudden death risk in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO) is associated with reduced survival in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM). The influence of LVOTO on survival from SD in relation to other recognized clinical risk markers is unknown.
Left ventricular outflow obstruction after mitral valve replacement preserving native anterior leaflet.	Left ventricular outflow obstruction may result from preserving the anterior leaflet after mitral valve replacement. A 79-year-old woman, who had a mitral valve replacement with the native mitral leaflets left intact 16 years before, was admitted to our hospital with severe dyspnea due to heart failure. Echocardiography showed systolic anterior motion of preserved anterior mitral leaflet, and continuous wave Doppler detected severe left ventricular outflow tract jets during systole without mitral chordal rupture. Surgical incising of the anterior mitral leaflet through the aortic root relieved the obstruction without removing the prosthetic mitral valve.
Apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with midventricular obstruction and apical aneurysm.	We present the case of a 69-year-old female with a long history of apical hypertrophic cardiomyopathy progressing to midcavitary obstruction and apical aneurysm development. A coronary angiogram showed no stenotic lesions in the epicardial coronary arteries and myocardial perfusion imaging showed no perfusion defects in the left ventricular apex, with the latter being an extremely uncommon finding. This case suggests that apical aneurysm may not be exclusively caused by ischemia and eventually different or coexisting factors are probably involved.
Diagnosis of biventricular assist device inflow cannula obstruction.	A case of an echocardiographic diagnosis of biventricular assist device inflow cannula obstruction, associated with low cardiac output in a 29-years old male with dilated cardiomyopathy and severe congestive heart failure is presented. The reasons for low cardiac output in patients supported with ventricular assist devices and the role of transoesophageal echocardiography in the diagnosis of device failure are briefly discussed.
Transcatheter creation and enlargement of ventricular septal defects for relief of ventricular hypertension.	Creation or enlargement of a ventricular septal defect is indicated in rare clinical situations. In the setting of double-outlet right ventricle requiring single-ventricle palliation, left ventricular outflow tract obstruction caused by progressive restriction at the ventricular septal defect poses an uncommon but recognized dilemma. In this situation surgical ventricular septal defect enlargement may be desirable but risks damage to the atrioventricular valve or conduction system. We report the results of a novel technique for transcatheter creation or enlargement of ventricular septal defects as an alternative to reoperation when decompression of an isolated ventricle is indicated.
Atrioventricular canal: single-patch technique.	Complete atrioventricular septal defects have been repaired at the Medical University of South Carolina for the past 25 years using the "single-patch technique" as first described by the Mayo Clinic group in 1968. In this technique, the single atrioventricular valve is separated into left (mitral) and right (tricuspid) components by dividing the superior and inferior bridging leaflets back to the annulus. A single patch of bovine pericardium is sutured to the right ventricular aspect of the ventricular septum, the previously divided valve leaflets are resuspended to the patch, the "cleft" in the left-sided valve is closed with interrupted sutures, and the atrial component of the defect closed by suturing the patch to the atrial septum with a continuous suture. Since 1995, there have been no operative deaths in the 88 consecutive infants undergoing this repair in our institution. Nine patients (10.2%) have required reoperation for severe mitral regurgitation. While the issue of operative mortality in patients undergoing single-patch repair of complete atrioventricular septal defect has largely been eliminated, residual or recurrent mitral regurgitation continues to be a problem.
Complex atrioventricular canal.	Complex forms of atrioventricular (AV) canal (C) such as; AVC with left ventricular outflow tract obstruction, tetralogy of Fallot with complete AVC, double orifice left AV valve, unbalanced complete AVC, and single ventricle patients with common AVC valve require careful preoperative planning and special techniques. This review will explore these technical modifications and outcomes for repair of complex variants of AVC. Optimal results will be achieved using an individually tailored approach that is guided by careful evaluation of the preoperative studies, precise operative technique, and intraoperative assessment of the reconstructed AV valve, as well as a willingness to re-intervene should the postoperative course not proceed as anticipated.
Partial atrioventricular canal: pitfalls in technique.	Partial atrioventricular (AV) canal represents approximately 25% of all AV septal defects. While often grouped with secundum ASD from the perspective of cardiopulmonary physiology, clinical presentation, and timing of surgical correction, their optimal management truly requires an understanding of their anatomic similarities to other forms of common AVC defects. By most measures, outcomes for surgical management of partial AV canal has improved over the last four decades, though some aspects of these defects continue to pose important challenges. Current experience has witnessed the reduction in early mortality and only rare complete heart block. Left AV valve dysfunction remains the most common indication for reoperation (10%) with LVOT stenosis the next most common reason (10% to 15% incidence, 5% to 10% reoperation rate). It is important to understand in this population that postoperative left AV valve problems and LVOT stenosis may be intimately linked, both from an etiologic standpoint, and with respect to their management.
Neonatal rhabdomyoma causing right ventricular inflow obstruction with duct-dependent pulmonary blood flow: successful stenting of PDA.	We describe an infant with the antenatal diagnosis of a large intracardiac rhabdomyoma causing tricuspid inflow obstruction. Postnatal cyanosis and arterial hypoxemia prompted commencement of intravenous prostaglandin E1 with immediate improvement in saturations. Clinical and genetic testing confirmed diagnosis of tuberous sclerosis. To secure ductal patency, two tandem coronary stents were implanted via an antegrade approach. Several episodes of long RP atrio-ventricular re-entrant tachycardia were observed. At 7(1/2) months of age, the tumor was no longer obstructive to tricuspid inflow, ductal flow was highly restrictive and there was no recurrence of supraventricular tachycardia.
Percutaneous transluminal septal myocardial ablation: early results and long-term follow-up]	Percutaneous transluminal septal myocardial ablation (PTSMA) is becoming an alternative to surgical myectomy in the treatment of severe, drug refractory, hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM). The aim of our study was to analyze early results, complications and long-term follow-up in patients after PTSMA.
Polytetrafluoroethylene graft calcification in patients with surgically repaired congenital heart disease: evaluation using multidetector-row computed tomography.	Noninvasive determination of calcified prosthetic polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) is important in improving risk stratification. The purpose of this study is to assess the feasibility of multidetector-row computed tomography (MDCT) for the evaluation of PTFE calcification in patients with surgically repaired congenital heart disease and to evaluate the development and characteristics of calcification for specific surgical procedures.
Cardiac resynchronization therapy for mitral systolic anterior motion in a child.	We describe the successful use of cardiac resynchronization therapy for treatment of mitral valve systolic anterior motion with left ventricle outflow tract obstruction after re-excision of a subaortic membrane and septal myectomy in a 12-year-old child. In the recovery phase, a total atrioventricular block persisted. Therefore a permanent atrioventricular pacing system was implanted.
Right ventricular myxoma causing right ventricular outflow tract obstruction.	Cardiac myxomas are the most common neoplasms of the heart. They can be located in any chamber of the heart but frequently in the left atrium. In this report we present a patient who had been treated for a right ventricular myxoma originating from the interventricular septum and leading to right ventricular outflow tract obstruction.
Isolated right ventricular infarction presenting with ST-segment elevation in precordial leads V1-V3.	We describe a rare case of a patient presenting with ST-segment elevation in precordial leads V1-V3 due to occlusion of the ventricular branch of the right coronary artery during primary percutaneous coronary angioplasty.
Reoperation for persistent outflow obstruction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	This study compares results of a second left ventricular myotomy and myectomy (M + M) with those of mitral valve replacement (MVR) as reoperative procedures for persistent left ventricular outflow obstruction after M + M in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Comparison of the second M + M group (n = 12) with the MVR group (n = 11) disclosed significant difference (p less than 0.05) in mean age at the initial operation (29 +/- 11 years versus 40 +/- 8 years), interval between operations (46 +/- 57 months versus 18 +/- 13 months), and age at reoperation (33 +/- 10 years versus 42 +/- 8 years); and insignificant differences in mean preoperative functional class, cardiac index, left ventricular outflow gradients at rest or with provocation, and hospital mortality at reoperation (2/12 versus 1/11). At 6 months after reoperation, comparison of results of a second M + M with MVR showed that mean functional class, cardiac index, and left ventricular outflow gradient at rest were similarly improved, but the outflow gradient with provocation was significantly higher in the second M + M group (57 +/- 44 mm Hg versus 14 +/- 9 mm Hg, p less than 0.05). Total follow-up was 108 patient-years (100% complete) with an average of 5.9 years per patient in the second M + M group and 3.4 years per patient in the MVR group. Actuarial survival, including hospital mortality, at 3 and 5 years was 83% and 76%, respectively, after the second M + M, which was similar to 92% and 77% after MVR.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: the early years.	Hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy (HOCM) has four major features: (1) severe left ventricular hypertrophy, often most prominent in the basal interventricular septum; (2) frequent familial occurrence with autosomal dominant transmission; (3) occurrence of sudden cardiac death that is usually considered to be due to ventricular fibrillation; and (4) presence of hemodynamic evidence of labile intraventricular obstruction. The key papers describing the recognition of each of these features, as well as of various combinations of them, are reviewed in this paper. Particular attention is focused on the very frequent finding of marked lability of intraventricular obstruction. The recognition of this fourth and last major feature in 1959 makes 2009 the golden anniversary year marking completion of the description of the major features of HOCM.
Microvascular dysfunction, myocardial ischemia, and progression to heart failure in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Microvascular dysfunction can be demonstrated in most patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM), both in the hypertrophied and nonhypertrophied myocardial walls, mostly due to intimal and medial hyperplasia of the intramural coronary arteries and subsequent lumen reduction. As a consequence, regional myocardial ischemia may be triggered by exercise, increased heart rate, or arrhythmias, in areas which are unable to increase myocardial blood flow. In patients with HCM, microvascular dysfunction leading to severe myocardial hypoperfusion during maximal hyperemia represents a strong predictor of unfavorable outcome, left ventricular remodeling with progressive wall thinning, left ventricular dysfunction, and heart failure. Accurate quantitative assessment of microvascular dysfunction and myocardial ischemia is not easily feasible in clinical practice. Although signs of inducible myocardial ischemia may be detected by electrocardiogram, echocardiography, or myocardial scintigraphy, the vasodilator response to dipyridamole by positron emission tomography is considered the method of choice for the assessment of maximal regional and global flow. Cardiac magnetic resonance provides further information, by late gadolinium enhancement (LGE), which may show areas where replacement fibrosis has occurred following microvascular ischemia and focal necrosis. LGE areas colocalize with severe regional microvascular dysfunction, are associated with increased prevalence of ventricular arrhythmias, and show more extensive distribution in the late stages of the disease, when heart failure is the dominant feature. The present review aims to provide a concise overview of the available evidence of microvascular dysfunction and ischemia eventually leading to disease progression and heart failure in HCM patients.
The left ventricular outflow in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: from structure to function.	Left ventricular outflow tract obstruction (LVOTO) is one of the defining features of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and one of the main determinants of prognosis. Although the importance of obstruction was recognized since the original description by Teare and Brock, its exact cause and methods for its relief are still being hotly debated. We believe that a rational approach to solving these issues depends on thorough understanding of the specific structure and functions of the left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) in health and disease. There is now compelling evidence that the LVOT performs a series of vital sophisticated functions which are mediated by the design characteristics, structure, and biological properties of its component parts and that dysregulation of one or more of these functions results in obstruction and other abnormalities. We here review the integrated functions of the LVOT, its structural and functional relationships, with particular reference to its component parts (the major players) and their role in HCM. This knowledge is essential to evolve tailored restorative techniques for treating HCM.
Asymmetric Alfieri's stitch to correct systolic anterior motion after mitral valve repair.	Systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve is a feared complication after valve repair, with important implications in the postoperative period. Provocation with isoproterenol is valuable in the assessment of its mechanism and severity in high-risk patients. Surgical correction of this condition is sometimes difficult and may require valve replacement. We present a modification of Alfieri's edge-to-edge technique that adapts better to the mechanism of systolic anterior motion (SAM) after mitral repair in selected patients by placing the edge-to-edge suture between the A1-P1 segments and not in the midline.
Big MAC: caseous calcification of the mitral annulus referred for possible cardiac tumor.	A 73-year-old woman was found to have a 1.4 × 3.0 cm heterogeneous echodensity with smooth borders and central echolucency associated with a dynamic left ventricular outflow tract gradient and episodic chest pain. Although mitral annular calcification is a common manifestation, this case represents caseous calcification of the mitral annulus, which is a rare variant with an estimated prevalence of 0.068%. It should not be misinterpreted as an intracardiac tumor, abscess or cyst, as was the initial assumption in this case. The implications of the dynamic left ventricular outflow tract obstruction as the etiology of her episodic chest pain and potential dynamic changes in structure with calcium levels are further elucidated in this case.
Palliation using a self-expandable stent in a patient with obstructive right-ventricular outflow tract after total correction of tetralogy of Fallot: self-expandable stent in tetralogy of Fallot.	Total correction of tetralogy of Fallot (TOF) is typically performed within the first year of life. However, subsequently, right-ventricular dysfunction often progresses by pulmonary stenosis or regurgitation. Although most patients with corrected TOF require additional surgery for right-ventricular outflow tract, intervention could be an alternative to palliative surgery and associated morbidities, especially in children. We describe a palliative application of the self-expandable stent in a patient with pulmonary stenosis after total correction of TOF who lacked a conduit between the right ventricle and pulmonary artery.
Three-dimensional imaging of the left ventricular outflow tract: impact on aortic valve area estimation by the continuity equation.	Measurement of left ventricular outflow tract (LVOT) area for estimation of aortic valve area (AVA) using two-dimensional (2D) transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) and the continuity equation assumes a round LVOT. The aim of this study was to compare measurements of LVOT area and AVA using 2D and three-dimensional (3D) TTE and cardiac computed tomographic angiography (CCTA) in an attempt to improve the accuracy of AVA estimation using TTE.
Transapical approach to myectomy for midventricular obstruction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Midventricular obstruction in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is less common than subaortic obstruction, and there are few data on outcomes after surgical treatment.
Right ventricular outflow tract obstruction after sinus of valsalva aneurysm repair.	Sinus of Valsalva aneurysm (SVA) is a rare cardiac lesion especially in the western countries and older population. We report an unusual case of a 60-year-old Caucasian male with SVA, acute decompensation, and a pressurized prolapsed aortic leaflet cystic remnant via a small supracristal VSD causing recurrent right ventricular outflow tract obstruction following a Bentall procedure
Influence of dynamic obstruction and hypertrophy location on diastolic function in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is a disease with marked genetic and phenotypic heterogeneity. It is well known that obstructive septal forms of this disease entail worse clinical outcome compared with nonobstructive septal and apical forms. The objective of this study was to analyze the differences in left ventricular diastolic function in different subgroups of HCMs and to assess the influence of the location of myocardial hypertrophy and the presence of dynamic obstruction on impairment of diastolic function and its correlation with the clinical status.
Right ventricular outflow tract obstruction due to extracardiac tumors. A report of three cases diagnosed and followed up by echocardiographic studies.	Echocardiography has become a valuable diagnostic tool in various clinical conditions. Its use for the detection of extracardiac tumors has seldom been reported. The majority of these descriptions are of single case reports. We have recently encountered three patients (two with lymphomas and one with seminoma) who presented with signs and symptoms suggestive of right ventricular outflow tract obstruction. Two-dimensional echocardiography enabled the prompt diagnosis of extracardiac tumors compressing the heart. Moreover, echocardiography proved to be an excellent noninvasive tool for assessing the success of therapy for mediastinal tumors.
Septal myectomy for left ventricular outflow tract obstruction after mitral valve repair.	We describe a patient with a left ventricular outflow tract obstruction after mitral valve repair. Intraoperative transesophageal echocardiography permitted us to recognize the role of a bulging septum in the development of a systolic motion of the mitral valve. A left ventricular septal myectomy and myotomy was able to relieve the left ventricular outflow tract obstruction and the systolic anterior motion of the mitral valve.
Systolic anterior motion of mitral valve after the posterior leaflet sliding advancement procedure.	The posterior leaflet sliding advancement procedure was developed to prevent the occurrence of systolic anterior motion of mitral valve and consequently outflow obstruction after mitral annuloplasty. We present a patient with extremely redundant posterior mitral leaflet in whom outflow obstruction developed despite employment of this procedure. This case underscores the utility of preoperative and intraoperative echocardiography in surgical decision making. Systolic anterior motion can develop in some patients despite this new surgical technique.
Pulmonary valve origin of pedunculated rhabdomyoma causing moderate right ventricular outflow obstruction: surgical-implications.	A rare case of single, pedunculated, ball-like rhabdomyoma of the pulmonary valve, causing moderate right ventricular outflow obstruction in an infant with tuberous sclerosis, is presented. The diagnostic and surgical implications are discussed.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with left ventricular apical diverticulum.	In summary, 3 patients with HC and LV apical diverticula of various sizes are described. All 3 had morphologic evidence of severe midventricular obstruction, including 2 with documentation of greatly elevated LV systolic pressure and marked LV outflow pressure gradients.
Cardiac metastasis of a plasmacytoma with clinical manifestations of an extensive pulmonary embolism. Obstruction of the right ventricular outflow tract]	A 48-year-old man with advanced light-chain plasmacytoma was admitted because of severe dyspnoea and tachycardia. Physical examination revealed peripheral cyanosis and signs of right heart failure.
Hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy with left ventricular outflow tract obstructive physiology: a case of successful treatment with dual-chamber pacing.	Controversy exists over the use of atrioventricular synchronous pacing for patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy who are refractory to medical treatment. We present the case of an elderly man with severe-effort dyspnea attributable to hypertensive left ventricular hypertrophy with dynamic aortic outflow obstruction. We were able to achieve dramatic subjective and objective improvement in the exercise capacity of this patient with dual-chamber pacing after attempts at medical management had failed. This patient's response to therapy and his impressive response to minor pacemaker adjustments suggest that atrioventricular synchronous pacing should be considered for patients with secondary left ventricular hypertrophy as well as patients with hypertrophic obstructive cardiomyopathy.
