Transit time heterogeneity of bolus flow through the heart and lungs in patients with left-to-right intracardiac shunt.	Knowledge of the contributions of transit time heterogeneity to the cardiopulmonary system is important for understanding cardiopulmonary function in patients with intracardiac shunt. We determined the heterogeneity of blood transit times occurring between the right atrium and the left ventricle. Eighty two patients with suspected left-to right shunt were investigated with first-pass 99mTc-labelled red blood cell radiocardiography at supine rest. Forty two of them had a pulmonary-to-systemic flow ratio (Qp:Qs) of less than 1.2 and they served as a control group. The remaining study subjects had a Qp:Qs ratio of 1.7 +/- 0.3 (mean +/- SD). The patients with shunt had significantly greater (p < 0.001) heterogeneity of transit times (49 +/- 9%) than in the controls (39 +/- 7%). Overall heterogeneity of cardiopulmonary transit times in patients with shunt showed a curvature relationship; the highest values were centred in patients with moderate to severe shunt (1.5 < Qp:Qs < 2.5). The results suggest that the increased heterogeneity of transit times mainly occurs within the pulmonary capillary bed in patients with intracardiac shunt. This is probably due to the recruitment of the open capillaries without vessel distension.
Ca2+ handling and sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+ content in isolated failing and nonfailing human myocardium.	Disturbed sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca2+ content may underlie the altered force-frequency and postrest contractile behavior in failing human myocardium. We used rapid cooling contractures (RCCs) to assess SR Ca2+ content in ventricular muscle strips isolated from nonfailing and end-stage failing human hearts. With an increase in rest intervals (1 to 240 s; 37 degrees C), nonfailing human myocardium (n=7) exhibited a parallel increase in postrest twitch force (at 240 s by 121+/-44%; P<0.05) and RCC amplitude (by 69+/-53%; P<0.05). In contrast, in failing myocardium (n=30), postrest twitch force decreased at long rest intervals and RCC amplitude declined monotonically with rest (by 25+/-9% and 53+/-9%, respectively; P<0.05). With an increase in stimulation frequencies (0.25 to 3 Hz), twitch force increased continuously in nonfailing human myocardium (n=7) by 71+/-17% (at 3 Hz; P<0.05) and RCC amplitude increased in parallel by 247+/-55% (P<0.05). In contrast, in failing myocardium (n=26), twitch force declined by 29+/-7% (P<0. 05) and RCC amplitude increased only slightly by 36+/-14% (P<0.05). Paired RCCs were evoked to investigate the relative contribution of SR Ca2+ uptake and Na+/Ca2+ exchange to cytosolic Ca2+ removal during relaxation. SR Ca2+ uptake (relative to the Na+/Ca2+ exchange) increased significantly in nonfailing but not in failing human myocardium as stimulation rates increased. We conclude that the negative force-frequency relation in failing human myocardium is due to an inability of SR Ca2+ content to increase sufficiently at high frequencies and thus cannot overcome the frequency-dependent refractoriness of SR Ca2+ release. The rest-dependent decay in twitch force in failing myocardium is due to rest-dependent decline in SR Ca2+ content. These alterations could be secondary to depressed SR Ca2+-ATPase combined with enhanced cytosolic Ca2+ extrusion via Na+/Ca2+ exchange.
Parasympathetic control of cardiac sympathetic activity: normal ventricular function versus congestive heart failure.	Muscarinic receptors on adrenergic nerve terminals attenuate norepinephrine release. The role of these receptors in the modulation of cardiac norepinephrine release in humans remains uncertain.
Transesophageal echocardiographic evaluation of baboons during microgravity induced by parabolic flight.	The central cardiovascular responses to transient microgravity are not well understood.  Theoretically, entrance into microgravity results in the loss of the hydrostatic pressure head and an increase in central venous pressure (CVP) as a consequence of augmented venous return.  However, controversy exists regarding the time course and magnitude of cephalad blood volume shifts and its relationship to central atrial filling pressures.  On the June 1991 STS 40 shuttle mission, pre-launch echocardiograms suggested changes in cardiac dimensions occurred while the astronauts were in the supine, feet-up position.  Furthermore, a CVP line in an astronaut (n=1) demonstrated an unexpected abrupt decrease in CVP during orbital insertion.  In April 1991, our laboratory performed Doppler echocardiography in 6 normal human volunteers during parabolic flight.  Increases in right ventricular velocities reflecting a central shift of blood volume was demonstrated in subjects examined in the sitting position.  However, test subjects examined in the horizontal positions had no significant rise in Doppler velocities.  In addition, Latham et al noted variable central cardiovascular responses in chronically instrumented baboons during early microgravity.  Transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) is a feasible method to noninvasively examine cardiac anatomy during parabolic flight.  However, transducer placement on the chest wall is very difficult to maintain during transition to microgravity.  In addition, TTE requires the use of low frequency transducers (2.5 MHz) which limits resolution.  Transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) is an established imaging technique which obtains echocardiographic information from the esophagus.  It is a safe procedure and provides higher quality images of cardiac structures than obtained with TTE.  Since there are no interposed structures between the esophagus and the heart, higher frequency transducers can be used and resolution is enhanced.  With TEE, a flexible transducer tip permits contact with the esophageal mucosa, allowing for consistent imaging.  This study was designed to determine whether TEE was feasible to perform during parabolic flight and to determine whether acute central volume responses occur in acute transition to zero gravity (0G) by direct visualization of the cardiac chambers.
The effects of cigarette smoking on the heterogeneity of ventricular repolarization.	Although the circulatory effects of cigarette smoking have been studied extensively, its impact on ventricular repolarization has not been adequately evaluated.
Age, gender, and autonomic tone effects on surface electrocardiographic indices of ventricular repolarization.	Prolonged QT offset dispersion (QToD), an index of heterogeneity of ventricular repolarization, is thought to be an independent predictor of all-cause and cardiovascular mortality. However the influence of gender and autonomic tone in healthy adults on age-related changes in measures of ventricular repolarization are not well characterized.
Clinical profile of arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy in Chinese patients.	To study the clinical profile of Chinese patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy (ARVC).
Evaluation of systolic and diastolic ventricular performance of the right ventricle in fetuses with ductal constriction using the Doppler Tei index.	Fetal ductal constriction (DC) can depress right ventricular (RV) function. However, noninvasive assessment of fetal RV function remains difficult. We evaluated RV and left ventricular (LV) performance in fetuses with DC using the Doppler-derived Tei index. The Tei index measures the ratio of total time spent in isovolumic contraction and relaxation (isovolumic time) to the ejection time. Tricuspid inflow and RV outflow Doppler traces for the derivation of RV Tei indexes and mitral inflow and LV outflow traces for LV Tei indexes were measured in 78 fetuses of pregnant women who received indomethacin and 70 normal fetuses (gestational ages ranging from 20 to 39 weeks). DC occurred in 23 fetuses, defined as pulsatility index <1.9. In fetuses with DC, the RV isovolumic time was prolonged and RV ejection time was shortened, and the RV Tei index was high compared with those in fetuses that received indomethacin without DC and normal fetuses. Also, the RV Tei index clearly separated the fetuses with DC from normal and fetuses that received indomethacin without DC (0.74 +/- 0.14 vs 0.35 +/- 0.07 and 0.37 +/- 0.06, respectively; p <0.0001). The LV Tei index was not affected by DC. Serial study in 7 fetuses with DC showed that the RV Tei index decreased from 0.69 +/- 0.12 to 0.38 +/- 0.04 (p = 0.0002) after discontinuation of indomethacin coincident with ductal relaxation, although it remained elevated in 2 cases at the time of ductal relaxation. Thus, the Tei index is a useful and sensitive indicator for detecting abnormal RV performance in fetuses with DC.
High frame rate strain rate imaging of the interventricular septum in healthy subjects.	In the present study the feasibility was assessed of a new strain rate imaging method with a very high frame rate of around 300 frames per second.
A cardiac dihydropyridine receptor II-III loop peptide inhibits resting Ca(2+) sparks in ferret ventricular myocytes.	1. We studied the effect of a peptide (Ac-10C) on cardiac ryanodine receptor (RyR) opening. This decapeptide (KKERKLARTA) is a fragment of the cardiac dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR) from the cytosolic loop between the second and third transmembrane domains (II-III loop). Studies were carried out in ferret ventricular myocytes by simultaneously applying ruptured-patch voltage clamp and line-scan confocal microscopy with fluo-3 to measure intracellular [Ca(2+)] ([Ca(2+)](i)) and Ca(2+) sparks. 2. Inclusion of Ac-10C in the dialysing pipette solution inhibited resting Ca(2+) spark frequency (due to diastolic RyR openings) by > 50 %. This occurred without changing sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) Ca(2+) content, which was measured via the caffeine-induced Ca(2+) transient amplitude and the caffeine-induced Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchange current (I(NCX)) integral. Ac-10C also reduced slightly the size of Ca(2+) sparks. 3. Ac-10C did not alter either resting [Ca(2+)](i) (assessed by indo-1 fluorescence) or DHPR gating (measured as L-type Ca(2+) current). 4. The SR Ca(2+) fractional release was depressed by Ac-10C at relatively low SR Ca(2+) content, but not at higher SR Ca(2+) content. 5. A control scrambled peptide (Ac-10CS) did not alter any of the measured parameters (notably Ca(2+) spark frequency or SR Ca(2+) fractional release). Thus, the Ac-10C effects may be sequence or charge distribution specific. 6. Our results suggest an inhibitory regulation of RyRs at rest via the cardiac DHPR II-III loop N-terminus region. The mechanism of the effect and whether this interaction is important in cardiac excitation-contraction coupling (E-C coupling) per se, requires further investigation.
Reentrant circuits in the canine atrioventricular node during atrial and ventricular echoes: electrophysiological and histological correlation.	The anatomic-electrophysiological correlation of AV nodal reentry is unclear. To localize reentrant circuits during atrial and ventricular echoes and to characterize sites of slow conduction and block, we correlated histology with electrophysiology of the AV node.
Does the myocardial performance index affect pulmonary artery pressure in patients with mitral stenosis? A tissue Doppler imaging study.	The relation between systolic pulmonary artery pressure (PAP) and mitral stenosis (MS) has been poorly understood. Although the mitral valve area (MVA) is an important factor affecting the PAP, there is a wide spectrum of the PAP in patients with MS despite a similar MVA. So, we analyzed whether the left and right ventricular myocardial performance index (MPI) correlated with the PAP.
Heterogeneous connexin43 expression produces electrophysiological heterogeneities across ventricular wall.	Recently we found that electrophysiological (EP) heterogeneities between subepicardial and midmyocardial cells can form a substrate for reentrant ventricular arrhythmias. However, cell-to-cell coupling through gap junctions is expected to attenuate transmural heterogeneities between cell types spanning the ventricular wall. Because connexin43 (Cx43) is the principal ventricular gap junction protein, we hypothesized that transmural EP heterogeneities are in part produced by heterogeneous Cx43 expression across the ventricular wall. The left ventricles of eight dogs were sectioned to expose the transmural surface. To determine whether heterogeneous Cx43 expression influenced EP function, high-resolution transmural optical mapping of the arterially perfused canine wedge preparation was used to measure transmural conduction velocity (thetaTM), dV/dt(max), transmural space constant (lambdaTM), and transmural gradients of action potential duration (APD). Relative Cx43 expression, quantified by confocal immunofluorescence, was significantly lower (by 24 +/- 17%; P < 0.05) in subepicardial compared with deeper layers. Importantly, reduced subepicardial Cx43 was associated with transmural heterogeneities of EP function evidenced by selectively reduced subepicardial thetaTM (by 18 +/- 9%; P < 0.05) compared with deeper layers. In subepicardial regions, dV/dt(max) was fastest (by 19 +/- 15%) and lambdaTM was smallest (by 18.1 +/- 2%), which suggests that conduction slowing was attributable to localized uncoupling rather than reduced excitability. The maximum transmural APD gradients occurred in the same regions where Cx43 expression was lowest; this suggests that Cx43 expression patterns served to maintain APD gradients across the transmural wall. These data demonstrate that heterogeneous Cx43 expression is closely associated with functionally significant EP heterogeneities across the transmural wall. Therefore, Cx43 expression patterns can potentially contribute to arrhythmic substrates that are dependent on transmural electrophysiological heterogeneities.
Comparative dipolar electrocardiotopographic study of ventricular activation in Macaca mulatta monkeys and man.	Electrocardiographic correlates of ventricular activation sequence were studied in 22 Macaca mulatta monkeys, aged 1-18 years, and 145 human subjects, aged 11-72 years, using the corrected orthogonal lead system of McFee-Parungao and the dipolar electrocardiotopographic (DECARTO) data presentation, where the time series of instantaneous spatial vectors are converted into time series of areas of activation on a spherical image surface enveloping the heart. Macaques had shorter ventricular activation time (61+/-11 vs. 97+/-11 ms) that could not be explained exclusively by their higher heart rate. Their DECARTO image of the resultant activation front occurred 10 ms after QRS onset (septal activation) identically with humans, but it attained a more anteriorly oriented maximum earlier than in humans (20 vs. 40 ms). The time course of the extent of the resultant activation front in old macaques (15-18 years) resembled to that observed in humans. On the average, female macaques had smaller DECARTO images of activation fronts throughout the QRS complex than males. This finding is in agreement with the known smaller QRS amplitudes in women than in men.
Early electrical and geometric changes after percutaneous closure of large atrial septal defect.	Cardiac arrhythmias and right chamber enlargement are well known long-term sequelae of atrial septal defect (ASD). Surgical ASD closure relieves patient symptoms but often fails to revert cardiac volume overload findings. Transcatheter ASD closure might be an attractive alternative to surgery, also because of the possibility to study the amount and time-course of the electro-geometric modifications following shunt disappearance. Between March 2000 and December 2002, 24 patients (age 22.7 +16.8 years) underwent percutaneous closure of large ASD (stretched diameter >20 mm and/or QP/QS ratio >1.5:1). ASD closure was performed with the Amplatzer Septal Occluder device (mean 25 +/- 7 mm), achieving a complete occlusion in all patients at 1 month. In 6 patients, right ventricular (RV) monophasic action potential was recorded during the procedure. All patients underwent standard 12-lead electrocardiography and transthoracic echocardiography before and at 24 hours and 1 month after ASD closure. After the procedure, monophasic action potential length increased from 359 +/- 27 to 372 +/- 27 ms (p <0.0001). At 1 month, QT dispersion decreased from 54 +/- 25 to 41 +/- 17 ms (p <0.05), RV diastolic diameter decreased from 42 +/- 6 to 34 +/- 5 mm (p <0.00001), and left ventricular (LV) diastolic diameter increased from 39 +/- 5 to 44 +/- 5 mm (p <0.0001), resulting in a decrease in the RV/LV ratio from 1.11 +/- 0.22 to 0.79 +/- 0.11 (-28.8%, p <0.00001). Electrocardiographic changes, as well as the amount and time-course of RV overload relief, did not significantly differ between pediatric (<16 years of age; n = 11) and adult patients (n = 13). In conclusion, regardless of age at procedure, percutaneous ASD closure results in early striking electrical and geometric cardiac changes that may be beneficial during long-term follow-up.
Early and medium-term results for repair of Ebstein anomaly.	We evaluated the early and medium-term single-center results for primary repair of Ebstein anomaly in both adults and children.
Temporary coronary guidewire pacing during percutaneous coronary intervention.	Temporary pacing is occasionally required during percutaneous coronary artery interventions. This can be accomplished by the insertion of a temporary transvenous pacemaker wire into the right ventricle, but there is some risk and inconvenience associated with this approach. Temporary pacing using the coronary artery guidewire was described in 1985 but is used infrequently. Using currently available equipment, we evaluated guidewire pacing in 26 patients. Guidewire pacing was successful in all patients, but not with all coronary guidewires at acceptable ventricular capture thresholds. No complications occurred from guidewire pacing. Bench testing of multiple different wires showed several with very high resistances likely unsuitable for clinical use. Temporary guidewire pacing is easily performed and should be considered as an alternative to the separate placement of a temporary transvenous pacemaker.
Ventricular function after coronary artery bypass grafting: evaluation by magnetic resonance imaging and myocardial strain analysis.	Magnetic resonance imaging with radiofrequency tissue tagging permits quantitative assessment of regional systolic myocardial strain. We sought to investigate the utility of this imaging modality to quantitatively determine preoperative impairment and postoperative improvement in ventricular function in patients with ischemic heart disease.
A novel method to assess systolic ventricular function using atrioventricular plane displacement--a study in young healthy males and patients with heart disease.	Analysis of atrioventricular plane displacement (AVPD) is a well established method for assessment of both systolic and diastolic ventricular function. For several years, AVPD has been a clinical tool and there are many current, as well as potential, areas of application. However, clinical work has shown that the traditional method for evaluation of systolic ventricular function, called total AVPD, does not temporally reflect true systole. Systolic AVPD is a new approach for measuring AVPD to assess ventricular systolic function. We wished to apply this new model in healthy subjects and in patients with different common heart diseases. Twenty-eight young healthy males and 30 patients (aortic stenosis, left sided regurgitant lesions, postmyocardial infarction) were enrolled. AVPD was obtained at the four standard sites by M-mode. Total AVPD was measured in the conventional way and systolic AVPD by identifying true systole, by means of mitral- and aortic valve closure respectively. Ventricular volumes were calculated according to biplane Simpson's rule. The systolic AVPD measurements were significantly lower than the total measurements, at both atrioventricular planes in all groups (P<0.001). This discrepancy was greater at the mitral than at the tricuspid annulus in the patients 24.2% vs. 15.5% (P<0.001), but did not differ in the healthy subjects. At the mitral annulus, this discrepancy also seemed to be more pronounced in the patients than in the healthy subjects 24.2% vs. 10.7%. When assessing ventricular systolic function by AVPD, the conventional method overestimates the amplitude in relation to true systolic function in both patients with heart disease and in young healthy males. Thus, there are uncertainties regarding earlier estimations of AVPD in terms of expression of systolic function and regarding previously presented reference values. We recommend the proposed methodology.
Unique responses of immature hearts to ischemia. Functional recovery versus initiation of contracture.	The characterization of unique responses of immature hearts to ischemic injury is important in devising better methods of myocardial protection for neonatal cardiac operations. Two end-points used to assess the vulnerability of immature myocardium to ischemic injury, namely, the time between onset of ischemia to the beginning of contracture and the functional recovery after reperfusion, had yielded results that appeared to be contradictory. In this study both the immature and adult rabbit hearts were used to study these two end-points in the same model, to assess their relationships and physiologic implications. Our data confirmed that, although immature hearts have greater capacity than adult hearts for functional recovery after identical periods of ischemic insult, their times to ischemic contracture are not prolonged, as could have been expected. A negative correlation between the rise in resting myocardial tension (i.e., contracture) and the recovery of ventricular function after reperfusion was noted both in the neonatal and in the adult hearts. However, reperfusion undertaken after "the onset of contracture" showed that the ventricle could still regain a measure of its function, which indicates that the "irreversibility" in global ventricular function is a gradual and progressive phenomenon. Biochemical studies of sarcoplasmic reticular calcium-adenosinetriphosphatase activity indicated that the immature myocardium has a significantly lower activity of this enzyme. Further depression of this enzyme activity after ischemia is seen in the immature hearts and may in part explain the earlier onset of contracture reported. A unifying concept to explain these unique responses of neonatal hearts to ischemia is proposed, based on the immaturities of certain key enzymes. The implications of these findings in the development of better protective techniques are also discussed.
Rapid, accurate and simultaneous noninvasive assessment of right and left ventricular mass with nuclear magnetic resonance imaging using the snapshot gradient method.	Left ventricular, and possibly also right ventricular, mass is an important determinant of prognosis in cardiovascular disease. Consequently, noninvasive estimation of ventricular mass may be an important clinical investigation. The ideal technique for this purpose would be widely available and accurate, employ short study times and avoid exposure to contrast agents and radiation. Conventional nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging fulfills most of these criteria, but it is time-consuming and expensive. Moreover, its accuracy in estimating right ventricular mass has yet to be assessed. Accordingly, high speed NMR imaging using the snapshot gradient echo technique was used to assess right and left ventricular mass in 10 dogs and the results were compared with values obtained at autopsy, which ranged from 26.1 to 52.9 and 61 to 119.8 g, respectively. The mean absolute difference between the NMR imaging estimates and autopsy findings was 2 +/- 1.2 g (range 0.4 to 4.2) for right ventricular mass and 4.4 +/- 1.7 g (range 1.8 to 6.6) for left ventricular mass. Total NMR imaging time was less than or equal to 5 min. These data demonstrate that high speed NMR imaging can be used to accurately estimate right as well as left ventricular mass.
Measurement of the Tei index: a comparison of M-mode and pulse Doppler methods.	The Tei index is a useful echocardiographic measure of ventricular function in adults and children. Most studies have used pulse or tissue Doppler imaging to calculate this index. M-mode, with its higher frame rate and sharp deflections, may be an accurate method of calculating the Tei index.
Evaluation of intracardiac shunts with cardiac magnetic resonance.	Intracardiac shunts including atrial septal defect, ventricular septal defect, endocardial cushion defects, and surgical baffles may be identified, localized, and quantified using cardiac MRI methods. Both dark-blood and bright-blood techniques are helpful to identify anatomy. Contrast enhancement is especially useful for identifying associated vascular anomalies. Dynamic first-pass contrast agent signal-time studies may demonstrate rapid recirculation and shunting. Volumetric and phase contrast cine methods are useful to quantify flow. Pulmonary to systemic (Qp/Qs) flow ratios may be calculated noninvasively by comparing the pulmonary artery flow to the aortic flow measurement.
Myocardial contraction is 5-fold more economical in ventricular than in atrial human tissue.	Cardiac energetics and performance depend on the expression level of the fast (alpha-) and slow (beta-) myosin heavy chain (MHC) isoform. In ventricular tissue, the beta-MHC isoform predominates, whereas in atrial tissue a variable mixture of alpha- and beta-MHC is found. In several cardiac diseases, the slow isoform is upregulated; however, the functional implications of this transition in human myocardium are largely unknown. The aim of this study was to determine the relation between contractile properties and MHC isoform composition in healthy human myocardium using the diversity in atrial tissue.
T-vector direction differentiates postpacing from ischemic T-wave inversion in precordial leads.	Postpacing precordial T-wave inversion (TWI), known as cardiac memory (CM), mimics ischemic precordial TWI, and there are no established ECG criteria that adequately distinguish between the two. On the basis of CM properties (postpacing sinus rhythm T vector approaching the direction of the paced QRS vector), we hypothesized that CM induced by right ventricular pacing would manifest a TWI pattern different from that of precordial ischemic TWI, thereby discriminating between the two.
Differential effects of positive end expiratory pressure and cardiac tamponade on left-right ventricular mechanical function in the dog.	The aim was to examine the hypothesis that an increased coupling occurs between the ventricles during tamponade via a ventricular-pericardial-ventricular interaction, but that ventricular coupling would be unaltered or reduced with positive end expiratory pressure (PEEP).
Real-time cine MRI of ventricular septal motion: a novel approach to assess ventricular coupling.	The purpose of this study was to assess the feasibility of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to evaluate in real-time, the effects of respiration in ventricular septal motion and configuration in normal volunteers and cardiac patients. Real-time cine MRI studies, using the steady-state free precession (SSFP) technique, were performed in the cardiac short-axis during operator-guided deep inspiration and expiration in normal volunteers (N = 6), and in patients with constrictive pericarditis (CP; N = 6), restrictive cardiomyopathy (RCM; N = 4), chronic cor pulmonale (N = 5), and pericardial effusion. The respiratory effects on septal position and configuration during early ventricular filling were visually assessed. Results were compared with the short-axis breath-hold cine MRI studies, obtained at end-inspiration. In CP patients, onset of inspiration led to a leftward inversion in four of six patients and flattening of the septum in two of six patients during early ventricular filling. Septal abnormalities progressively disappeared during the following heartbeats. A similar pattern was found in one of six patients with pericardial effusion. The above pattern was absent in RCM patients. Although septal flattening during early inspiration was also found in two of six normal volunteers, flattening was minimal compared to that in CP patients. In all cor pulmonale patients, septal flattening or inversion was present, but this was not influenced by respiratory motion. Real-time cine MRI is a promising technique for determining the influence of respiration on septal motion and might be helpful in differentiating between different causes of impaired ventricular filling.
Rationale of exercise therapy in patients with angina pectoris with normal and impaired ventricular function.	The implementation of comprehensive coronary care (CCC), including multiple measures involving physical, psychologic, and pharmacologic procedures, together with a new concept of pharmacologic and surgical revascularization, have caused a remarkable improvement in the treatment of coronary patients with angina pectoris. The role of physical training per se is one measure of CCC and one must observe the fact that a single factor cannot be expected to influence a multifactorial disease. The irrefutable evidence that shows that physical training has an effect on longevity is lacking. On the other hand, a number of important physiologic and psychologic benefits have been found to be accompanying a prolonged physical training program in coronary patients suffering from angina pectoris before or after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG). The effect of training is an improvement of cardiocirculatory performance for given work tasks. This includes a decrease of heart rate, systolic blood pressure, the rate-pressure product, an increase of stroke volume, overall physical work performance, oxygen pulse, and in some instances, the rise of the angina pectoris threshold heart rate and threshold rate-pressure product in patients with angina pectoris.
Echocardiographic evaluation of stress test for determining safety of participation in strength training.	Suitability for safe participation in aerobic exercise is typically determined by a cardiopulmonary exercise test, using a treadmill or cycle. With increased participation in strength training by healthy clients as well as rehabilitation patients, there is a need to develop a test for determining suitability for safe participation in strength training. This investigation describes a strength stress test that may be used for determining safety of participation in strength training. Ten healthy subjects (28.3 +/- 5.9 years and 75.3 +/- 14.4 kg) with strength training experience participated. Following a resting echocardiogram, subjects performed 3 sets of leg presses at an 8 repetition maximum. Resting and exercise end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes were obtained during the last repetition of each set and were indexed for body surface area (ESV(I), EDV(I)). Ejection fraction, cardiac output, and stroke volume were calculated. Cardiac output increased significantly (p < 0.05) for each set in comparison to rest and also during the third set in comparison to sets 1 and 2. Ejection fraction increased, whereas ESV(I) and EDV(I) decreased significantly for each set compared to rest, and also during sets 2 and 3 when compared to set 1. Responses to sets 2 and 3 indicate increased cardiac stress with increasing sets to exhaustion analogous to changes observed during tests designed to assess anaerobic and aerobic power. Thus, this protocol may be used as a test for evaluating the ability to participate in modest strength training consistent with exercise prescriptions developed for participants of health clubs and rehabilitation facilities. Strength testing protocol described may be adapted and modified for evaluating other lifts such as arm work and job-related tasks.
The effect of mental stress on the non-dipolar components of the T wave: modulation by hypnosis.	Mental or emotional stress-induced ventricular arrhythmias and sudden cardiac death are thought to be mediated by the autonomic nervous system and ischemia. In the absence of ischemia, increased inhomogeneity of repolarization is thought to be important. We tested the hypotheses that in the absence of ischemia, mental stress may modulate repolarization by changing autonomic balance; and mental relaxation induced by hypnosis may offset the potentially adverse effects of stress on the cardiac electrophysiology.
Direct quantitation of right and left ventricular volumes with nuclear magnetic resonance imaging in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension.	To test the utility of electrocardiographically gated spin echo nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) imaging in quantitating right and left ventricular volumes and function in patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, right and left ventricular end-diastolic and end-systolic volumes, stroke volumes and ejection fractions were determined in 11 patients with primary pulmonary hypertension and in 10 subjects with normal echocardiographic findings. Ventricular chamber volumes were computed by summing the ventricular chamber volumes of each NMR slice at end-diastole and end-systole. This technique was verified by comparison of results obtained by this method and with the water displacement volumes of eight water-filled latex balloons and ventricular casts of eight excised bovine hearts. In the patients with primary pulmonary hypertension, right ventricular volume indexes were 121 +/- 45 ml/m2 at end-diastole and 70.1 +/- 41.6 ml/m2 at end-systole; both values were significantly greater than values in the normal subjects (67.9 +/- 13.4 and 27.9 +/- 7.5 ml/m2, respectively). Left ventricular end-diastolic volume index was significantly less in the patients (44.9 +/- 9.7 ml/m2) than in the normal subjects (68.9 +/- 13.1 ml/m2). There was no significant difference in left ventricular end-systolic volume between the two groups (24.4 +/- 8.6 and 27.1 +/- 7.8 ml/m2, respectively). Right and left ventricular ejection fractions in the patients with primary pulmonary hypertension (0.43 +/- 0.21 and 0.46 +/- 0.15, respectively) were significantly less than values in normal subjects (0.59 +/- 0.09 and 0.6 +/- 0.11, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Systematic nocturnal atrial demand pacing results in high-output heart failure.	Beat-to-beat parameters of heart rate (HR), intra-arterial blood pressure (BP), central venous pressure, and derived indexes of cardiac output and total peripheral resistance were recorded 18 h/day (from 1800 to 1200 h the following day) in four monkeys (Macaca mulatta) during 20 control days followed by 20 days of atrial demand pacing. The pacing rate was set at approximately 10 beats/min above the fastest hourly average HR recorded during the control period, i.e., sufficient to prevent the normal nocturnal fall in HR. Nocturnal pacing resulted in progressive weekly increases in central venous BP and arterial BP. Analyses of levels and diurnal trends in hemodynamic parameters and cardiac function curves across consecutive 5-day periods of nocturnal pacing revealed a hemodynamic pattern characteristic of high-output heart failure, which progressively increased (week by week) during the early morning hours (0500-0700). Sustained elevated left ventricular work resulting from the prevention of a nocturnal fall in HR may have been responsible for the reduction in cardiac function seen in this experimental model.
Assessment of ventricular function with first-pass radionuclide angiography using technetium 99m hexakis-2-methoxyisobutylisonitrile: a European multicentre study.	In the context of a multicentre study on the use of technetium 99m hexakis-2-methoxyisobutylisonitrile (99mTc-Sestamibi), we evaluated the accuracy of the ventricular function assessed at rest by means of first-pass radionuclide angiocardiography acquired during the injection of the tracer for myocardial perfusion scintigraphy. The results were compared with first-pass studies performed using reference tracers sodium pertechnetate Tc 99m or technetium 99m diethylene triamine penta-acetic acid or with gated radionuclide angiocardiography. A total of 66 patients of the 105 enrolled in the study could be evaluated. The comparison of the first-pass studies was possible in 33 subjects with regard to the left ventricular ejection fraction, yielding r = 0.909 (P less than 10(-6)), and in 22 cases with regard to the right ventricular ejection fraction, yielding r = 0.712 (P less than 0.001). The comparison between the first-pass study using 99mTc-Sestamibi and the equilibrium gated radionuclide angiocardiography was possible for the left ventricular ejection fraction in 26 cases, with r = 0.937 (P less than 10(-6)), and for the right ventricular ejection fraction in 15 subjects, with r = 0.783 (P less than 0.001). In conclusion, the assessment of ventricular function performed by acquiring a first-pass radionuclide angiocardiograph during the injection of 99mTc-Sestamibi for perfusion myocardial scintigraphy can be considered reliable and accurate, when compared with the usually employed techniques. This result confirms the feasibility of a combined evaluation of perfusion and function at rest and during stress testing, which represents one of the most interesting advantages offered by the use of 99mTc-Sestamibi.
Cardiac findings after enzyme replacement therapy for mucopolysaccharidosis type I.	Mucopolysaccharidosis type I is a lethal autosomal recessive storage disease caused by a deficiency of lysosomal alpha-L-iduronidase and the consequent systemic accumulation of glycosaminoglycan. Cardiomyopathy and valvar insufficiency occur as glycosaminoglycan accumulates in the myocardium, expands the spongiosa of cardiac valves, and proliferates within the myointima of the epicardial coronary arteries. Congestive heart failure and death occur within the first decade of life in the most severe cases. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, used in severe forms of the disease, markedly prolongs survival, alleviates ventricular hypertrophy, and preserves cardiac function, but cardiac valves continue to thicken and valvular insufficiency progresses. Enzyme replacement therapy with human recombinant alpha-L-iduronidase has been proposed as an alternativee therapy for patients with mucopolysaccharidosis type I in whom the risk/benefit ratio of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation seems unfavorable. The investigators report the cardiac findings in a small series of 5 children with mucopolysaccharidosis type I who received enzyme replacement therapy for as long as 7 years. No deaths occurred during treatment. Left ventricular hypertrophy, which was present before therapy, resolved in all cases, and myocardial function remained normal. In contrast, the mitral and aortic valves remained thickened and, in some instances, developed progressive thickening and regurgitation. In conclusion, long-term enzyme replacement therapy has some clear benefits for the myocardium, but the cardiac valves appear unresponsive, and the ultimate effect on the coronary vasculature is unknown.
The New York Heart Association Classes and functional status: what are we really measuring?	The New York Heart Association (NYHA) Classes are used to appraise the status of patients with heart disease and evaluate treatment outcomes in clinical and research settings. Ambiguity exists concerning the construct the Classes represent and the optimal way to capture and interpret the information. This article examines the NYHA Classes within the context of a published functional status framework by Leidy. The framework proposes that (1) physiological indicators provide information on capacity, (2) physical activity characterizes performance, and (3) symptoms accompanying activity offer insight into reserve. It is proposed that the NYHA Classes provide a summary statement of both the reduction in reserve accompanying a decline in capacity and the concomitant increase in capacity utilization required to maintain performance in patients with heart disease. This premise is illustrated quantitatively through secondary analysis of data from 22 patients with ischemic heart disease and left ventricular dysfunction.
Benefit of single setting rate responsive ventricular pacing compared with fixed rate demand pacing in elderly patients.	In order to assess the value of a simple, single setting rate response option to VVI pacing, 12 patients (mean age 75.1 +/- 6.2, range 62-83 years, seven males, five females) with symptomatic complete heart block were entered into a double-blind, randomized crossover trial of VVI versus VVIR (single setting rate responsive) pacing using Medtronic Activitrax pacemakers. Assessment was by time taken in seconds (sec) and Borg scale symptom score (6-20) for simple activities (standing from chair x 30; walking 800 meters; 52 steps on stairs [slow and fast pace], and incremental, noninclined maximal treadmill exercise), performed after a 4-week period with the patient in each pacing mode. Times were significantly improved in VVIR mode for standing from chair [mean +/- SD] (78.7 +/- 22.5 vs 70.7 +/- 19.5 sec; P less than 0.05), for 800 m walk (1032 +/- 80 vs 885 +/- 59 sec; P less than 0.05), fast ascent of stairs (29.5 +/- 7.7 vs 26.5 +/- 5.6 sec; P less than 0.02), and treadmill exercise (626.7 +/- 189.5 vs 741.0 +/- 170.2 sec, P less than 0.005) although no difference in time for slow stair ascent was demonstrated. Symptom scores were significantly less in VVIR for standing from chair (12.7 +/- 2.8 vs 10.3 +/- 1.8; P less than 0.01), 800 m walk (10.9 +/- 2.7 vs 9.0 +/- 2.4; P less than 0.01), slow ascent of stairs (11.6 +/- 2.1 vs 10.0 +/- 2.0; P less than 0.01), and fast ascent of stairs (13.0 +/- 2.0 vs 11.7 +/- 1.9; P less than 0.02) but unchanged for treadmill exercise.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ventricular function during supine bicycle exercise in univentricular connection with absent right atrioventricular connection.	Fourteen patients with univentricular connection, absent right connection (tricuspid valve atresia) and normally related great arteries underwent rest and supine bicycle exercise equilibrium radionuclide blood pool studies. Ejection fraction, heart rate, systemic blood pressure and oxygen saturation (ear oximetry) were measured. There were 6 male and 8 female patients. Mean age +/- standard error of the mean was 14.5 +/- 1.1 years (range 6.3 to 21.1). Eight patients (group 1) had systemic to pulmonary shunts placed as palliation 8.2 +/- 2.2 years before study and 6 patients (group II) had caval to pulmonary shunts placed 11.8 +/- 1.6 years previously. Ejection fraction at rest was 54 +/- 2% and an abnormal response to exercise (failure of ejection fraction to increase greater than or equal to 5% from rest to peak exercise) was found in 9 of 14 patients. When analyzed separately, ejection fraction at rest in group I was higher than in group II; however, this difference disappeared at peak exercise. There was a significant negative correlation between ejection fraction at peak exercise and the interval since palliative surgery, although it was not apparent at rest. These data suggest that ventricular function is compromised during exercise and that abnormal performance is influenced by long-standing volume overload. Importantly, this abnormal state is concealed at rest and the choice of palliative shunting procedure appears to have little effect on normalizing pump performance.
Thresholds for premature ventricular contractions in frog hearts exposed to lithotripter fields.	Piezoelectrically generated lithotripter shocks were shown to produce premature ventricular contractions of the frog heart. Anesthetized grass frogs, Rana pipiens, were studied following implantation of an aortic catheter and EKG leads. The most sensitive phase of the heart cycle for the generation of premature ventricular contractions with lithotripter shocks at 30 MPa peak pressure was found to be the T-P segment. During this phase of the heart cycle, the minimum peak-positive pressure shock wave necessary to produce a premature ventricular contraction in a frog heart was between 5 MPa and 10 MPa.
Fourier analysis in patients with different pacing modes.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of phase analysis in detecting the altered activation sequence induced by different pacing modes. Radionuclide ventriculography and planar gated blood pool scintigraphy were performed at rest in 56 patients with different pacemakers. This method permitted us to localize the pacemaker impulse site in the right ventricle and its diffusion in the heart. In patients with VVI pacemaker, this technique showed an evident asynchronism of contraction and relaxation of each ventricle and the standard deviation of phase angle (sigma), calculated by computer, is greater during pacing than sinus rhythm for left (LV) and right (RV) ventricles (LV sigma: 17 degrees +/- 4 vs 11 degrees +/- 3, less than 0.001; RV sigma: 31 degrees +/- 7 vs 14 degrees +/- 4, P less than 0.001). In the patients with VVI rate responsive pacemakers, the LV sigma changed from 18.5 +/- 3 under pacing to 11 degrees +/- 3 in sinus rhythm, P less than 0.001, while the RV sigma changed from 30 degrees +/- 8 to 14 degrees +/- 4, P less than 0.001. Instead in the patients with DDD pacemakers, the LV sigma changed from 15.5 degrees +/- 2 under pacing to 11 degrees +/- 3 in sinus rhythm, P less than 0.05, while the RV sigma changed from 29.1 degrees +/- 6 to 14 degrees +/- 4, P less than 0.001.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Variability in the measurement of human ventricular refractoriness.	The degree of variability in ventricular refractoriness and factors potentially affecting this variability were evaluated in 80 patients undergoing an electrophysiological study. Each of seven variables (stimulation current, coupling interval of the basic drive train to spontaneous rhythm, pause between determinations, bipolar pacing configuration, bipolar vs unipolar pacing, atrioventricular synchrony, and autonomic tone) was evaluated in a group of ten patients to determine its effects on the reproducibility of refractoriness. Measurements were repeated ten times in every patient under each of two conditions. Five variables had significant effects on the reproducibility of measurements. Pacing at 10 mA was associated with less variability in the determination of ventricular refractoriness than pacing at twice threshold (within-subject variance component 4.5 vs 10.1 msec; P less than 0.001). The mean difference between the longest and shortest determinations of refractory periods (range) was 6.2 msec at 10 mA and 8.6 msec at twice threshold. The use of a conditioning period of pacing and continuous trains (eight beats with a 3-sec pause) rather than a variable pause between serial trials reduced the mean within-subject variance component from 16.5 to 3.3 (P less than 0.001) and the mean range of refractory period determinations from 10.8 to 4.8. The use of the distal rather than the proximal pole as the cathode decreased the mean within-subject variance component from 9.4 to 3.3 (P less than 0.001) and the range of determinations from 6.4 to 5.8 msec. Unipolar pacing was associated with less variability than bipolar pacing (mean within-subject variance component 4.6 vs 6.4; P less than 0.05, mean range 5.0 vs 7.6 msec).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Active fixation leads--long-term threshold reduction using a drug-infused ceramic collar.	Previous investigators, including our group, have reported the threshold reduction benefits of steroid-releasing leads. To date, all published literature has been for the passive fixation versions. The application of steroids should also enhance the performance of active fixation leads. We have developed and tested an atrial and a ventricular Accufix lead with a dexamethasone acetate-releasing, porous ceramic collar (DA DEC). A long-term sheep study has shown a significant reduction in thresholds (THR) when compared to standard Accufix leads without the collar (ACC) for atrial (ATR) and ventricular (VENT) versions (bipolar THR [0.5 msec] at 24 weeks: VENT DA DEC = 0.51 +/- 0.07, VENT ACC = 1.49 +/- 1.03; ATR DA DEC = 1.31 +/- 1.14, ATR ACC = 2.99 +/- 1.31). All other parameters tested, including pacing and sensing impedance as well as polarization overpotential, were similar for the two groups. The Accufix DEC leads therefore have excellent potential for low energy stimulation.
Intermediate-term results of the Senning or Mustard procedures combined with the Rastelli operation for patients with discordant atrioventricular connections associated with discordant ventriculoarterial connections or double outlet right ventricle.	In patients with discordant atrioventricular and ventriculoarterial connections, anatomic repair restores the morphologically left ventricle to its role in supporting the systemic circulation. In this study, we have evaluated the outcomes in the intermediate term for this complex surgical procedure.
Cross-sectional study of electrocardiographic pattern in healthy children resident at high altitude.	Electrocardiographic studies have reported persistent right ventricle predominance in high altitude children as an adaptive response. No information was provided on ethnicity and environmental factors in those studies. We assessed the electrocardiographic characteristics in healthy high altitude children with mixed ancestry and relatively high mobility to lower altitudes. A cross-sectional study of 321 children aged 2 months through 19 years old and living at high altitude (Tintaya, Peru, 4,100 m) was conducted. Standard 12-lead electrocardiography was performed. Information was obtained on ethnicity, medical history, place and altitude of pregnancy and birth, mobility of children and their parents and grandparents to lower altitudes, and housing conditions. A medical examination, echocardiography, hemoglobin, oxygen saturation, and anthropometric measurements were performed. Means between sexes were compared through Mann-Whitney test for independent samples not normally distributed. Potentially influential variables on electrocardiographic values were controlled through a general linear model. Electrocardiographic parameters including QRS axis, RV1, RSV1, RV1SV5, RSV5, RSV6, and SV1RV5 did not show a right predominance pattern at any age. Values were within sea level norms. None of the genetic or environmental factors controlled showed a consistent influence on the electrocardiographic variables. Our study showed an electrocardiographic pattern similar to that of sea level in high altitude children with some degree of high-altitude ancestry, comparatively well-nourished and with relatively high mobility to low altitudes.
Unusual elongation of the Eustachian valve.	We report a patient with a snake-shaped, mobile mass in the right atrium. The mass was determined to be an elongated Eustachian valve which was a persistent part of the embryologic valve of the sinus venosus.
Extracorporeal mechanical pulsatile pump and its significance for myocardial function recovery and circulatory support.	The authors performed 12 acute (on dogs) and 12 chronic (on calves) assisted circulation experiments with the use of the total extracorporeal mechanical pump (TEMP) artificial ventricles. The functional morphological research of the myocardium suggests that in addition to the possibility of the biological heart function full replacement, the artificial ventricle also helps recover damages in both the myocardial infarction and distal zones. The critical time period up to the onset of artificial circulation is not more than 2 h, and after that myocardial changes are irreversible.
Experimental study on the hemodynamic effects of veno-arterial extracorporeal membrane oxygenation with an automatically driven blood pump on puppies.	Hemodynamics, mainly the pressure of the heart, was studied while performing veno-arterial extra-corporeal membrane oxygenation (VA-ECMO) on 16 puppies between the right atrium and the right carotid artery with a unique ECMO circuit using an automatically driven blood pump. The resulting decrease in the mean pulmonary arterial pressure indicated a definite support of VA-ECMO on the volume work of the right heart. The right and left ventricular end-diastolic pressures decreased during the low flow bypass, but increased significantly with flow over 50 ml/min/kg. The results indicated biventricular pressure strain due to the increase in afterload. The left ventricular systolic pressure gradually increased despite the steady decrease in the systemic arterial systolic pressure when bypass flow exceeded 60 ml/min/kg. The findings were similar to those in peripheral circulatory insufficiency. The authors concluded that VA-ECMO flow should be kept as low as possible, in view of undesirable hemodynamic effects on both ventricles.
Long-term functional assessment after correction of tetralogy of Fallot in adulthood.	Tetralogy of Fallot presenting in adulthood is a surgical challenge. We present the long-term outcomes of surgical correction in this subset of patients, including results of postoperative effort tolerance as assessed by treadmill testing.
Pacing-induced dyssynchrony during early reperfusion reduces infarct size.	Considering the recent discovery of postconditioning, we investigated whether intermittent dyssynchrony immediately upon reperfusion induces cardioprotection as well.
Abnormal patterns of intraventricular flow and diastolic filling after the Fontan operation: evidence for incoordinate ventricular wall motion.	To assess whether regional abnormalities of ventricular function are present in patients after the Fontan operation and to explore the implications of any such abnormalities for ventricular filling.
High-grade video compression of echocardiographic studies: a multicenter validation study of selected motion pictures expert groups (MPEG)-4 algorithms.	Large files produced by standard compression algorithms slow down spread of digital and tele-echocardiography. We validated echocardiographic video high-grade compression with the new Motion Pictures Expert Groups (MPEG)-4 algorithms with a multicenter study.
Natural evolution of cardiac function, cardiac pathology and antimyosin scan in a murine myocarditis model.	Serial technetium-99m radionuclide ventriculograms, indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans and tissue biodistribution studies were performed in C3H/He mice with experimentally induced viral encephalomyocarditis and the results were compared with pathologic assessments of myocardial necrosis. Postinfection ejection fraction decreased on days 10 (20.7 +/- 5.5%, n = 6), 20 (18.6 +/- 15.2%, n = 5), 30 (18.5 +/- 7.7%, n = 5) and 150 (30.0 +/- 18.7, n = 6) (p less than 0.001) in comparison with that in uninfected control mice (63.3 +/- 3.1%, n = 6). In the same group of animals, indium-111 antimyosin antibody scans showed intense positive myocardial accumulation on day 10 (in six of six mice) and only slight accumulation on day 20 (in one of five mice). In the chronic stage, two of five mice on day 30 and two of six mice on day 150 still showed positive uptake. The antimyosin scan myocardium to lung uptake ratio (expressed as mean count density [mean counts/pixel of the region] ratio) increased greatly on day 10 (p less than 0.001 versus values in uninfected control mice) but not subsequently. Biodistribution studies of the indium-111 antimyosin antibody showed that the heart to blood count ratio was significantly higher on day 10 (p less than 0.001 versus values in control mice) but not on days 20, 30 and 150. Pathologic examination showed active and ongoing severe myocardial necrosis with dilated ventricles on day 10. On day 20, there was less active necrosis and healing had appeared to begin. On days 30 and 150, myocardial fibrosis increased.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ventricular assist device implantation as a bridge to cardiac transplantation in two adolescents with end-stage cardiomyopathy and heart failure as a result of anthracycline use]	In a adolescent women aged 15 and 17 years respectively, severe heart failure developed within a few months of anthracycline chemotherapy given for osteosarcoma. In the guidelines of the European Society of Cardiology, malignancy with a remission duration of less than 5 years is an absolute contraindication to cardiac transplantation. Neither patient was eligible to receive a ventricular assist device (VAD) as a bridge to cardiac transplantation in the Netherlands, but they were accepted in Germany. One patient received a cardiac transplant 13 months later and at the last follow-up check she was in good health with a remission of 3 years. The other patient developed bone metastases 6 months after the VAD implantation. Cardiac transplantation was not a treatment option for her. Dose-dependent cardiotoxicity is a serious complication of the use of anthracyclines. In severe heart failure the prognosis is often worse than in adjuvantly treated malignancies like osteosarcoma. VAD may therefore be a valid option for patients with severe heart failure after anthracycline use for a malignancy. In cases of sustained remission VAD may be the bridge to transplantation.
Blood flow structure and dynamics, and ejection mechanism in the left ventricle: analysis using echo-dynamography.	Using our "echo-dynamography", blood flow structure and flow dynamics during ventricular systole were investigated in 10 normal volunteers. The velocity vector distribution demonstrated blood flow during ejection was laminar along the ventricular septum. The characteristic flow structure was observed in each cardiac phases, early, mid- and late systole and was generated depending on the wall dynamic events such as peristaltic squeezing, hinge-like movement of the mitral ring plane, bellows action of the ventricle and dimensional changes in the funnel shape of the basal part of the ventricle, which were disclosed macroscopically by using the new technology of high speed scanning echo-tomography and microscopically by the strain rate distribution measured by phase tracking method. The pump function was reflected on the changes in the flow structure represented by the flow axis line distribution and the acceleration along the flow axis line. The acceleration of the ejection had three modes, "A", "B" and "C", and generated by the wall dynamic events. "A" appeared from the apical to the outflow area along the main flow axis line, "B" along the anterior mitral leaflet and the branched flow axis line, and "C" generated by the high speed vortex behind the mitral valve. The magnitude of the acceleration was estimated quantitatively from the velocity gradient along the flow axis line. Macroscopic and microscopic asynchrony in the myocardial contraction and extension appeared systematically in the local part of the ventricular wall, which was helpful for making the flow structure and for performing the smooth pump function.
Functional state following the Fontan procedure.	Despite improvements in outcomes after completion of the Fontan circulation, long-term functional state varies. We sought to identify pre- and postoperative characteristics associated with overall function.
Exercise capacity reflects ventricular function in patients having the Fontan circulation.	In this study we sought to determine, first, whether maximal exercise capacity reflects ventricular function, and second, whether the age of the patient, and the age of completion of the Fontan circulation, influence ventricular function and exercise performance.
Depressive symptoms in the congenital long QT syndrome.	A proportion of patients with congenital long QT syndrome (LQTS) experience potentially life-threatening cardiac arrhythmias.
Factors determining improvement in left ventricular function after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction: primacy of baseline ejection fraction.	Improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction is a measure of salvage of ischemic myocardium after reperfusion therapy for acute myocardial infarction. The degree of improvement in left ventricular ejection fraction may be influenced by many factors. Therefore, 137 patients in whom paired radionuclide angiograms were obtained within 24 h of acute infarction and before hospital discharge were retrospectively evaluated to determine which factors most affect improvement in ejection fraction. Only baseline ejection fraction correlated significantly with improvement in ejection fraction by both univariate analysis (ejection fraction as a continuous variable; p less than 0.001; ejection fraction as a categorical variable, less than or equal to 45% versus greater than 45%, p less than 0.0001) and multivariate analysis (p less than 0.0001). Reperfusion status (patent versus occluded infarct artery) and extent of coronary artery disease (one, two or three vessel) were significant factors by multivariate but not by univariate analysis. Location of infarction, treatment modality and time to treatment did not correlate with change in ejection fraction by either statistical technique. Thus, of those factors tested, baseline left ventricular ejection fraction is the most potent predictor of improvement in ventricular function after acute infarction. Knowledge of baseline ejection fraction may be helpful in deciding whether to treat some patients with equivocal indications or contraindications for reperfusion therapy. Clinical trials of reperfusion strategies should stratify patients on the basis of baseline ejection fraction if ejection fraction is to be used as an end point for myocardial salvage.
Differing susceptibilities to cold preservation of rat atria and ventricles.	The susceptibilities of atria and ventricles to cold preservation were studied in rat hearts. Rat hearts were stored in Collins' solution at 4 degrees C for 0, 12, or 24 hours, and the atrial and ventricular function was measured in a working heart model and in isolated atrial and papillary muscle preparations. In working heart preparations, cardiac output decreased to 0 ml/min and other parameters of ventricular function (systolic and end-diastolic pressure and dP/dt of the left ventricle) markedly deteriorated after 12 hours of preservation. After 24 hours, no contraction of the left ventricle was observed despite the presence of atrial contraction. In isolated atrial muscle preparations, the rate of spontaneous beating of the right atrium was not affected by cold preservation. The twitch contractions of right and left atria were attenuated but elicited after 24 hours. In electrically driven papillary muscles, twitch contractions were also markedly attenuated by 12 hours of preservation and were abolished after 24 hours. The positive inotropic effect of isoproterenol was also markedly attenuated in the atrial preparations by cold preservation. However, the positive chronotropic response to isoproterenol and the negative chronotropic and inotropic responses to carbachol were little affected by cold preservation. Intramural cholinergic and adrenergic nerve stimulation produced first negative and then positive effects on the beating rate and twitch contraction in the isolated right atria. Cold preservation selectively attenuated and finally abolished the adrenergic responses. In the ventricles, the adenosine triphosphate and creatine phosphate content significantly decreased and the lactate content increased with an increase in the preservation period. On the other hand, changes of such metabolites in the atria were either not observed or were much smaller. These results suggest that atrial function is maintained better than ventricular function in the cold-preserved heart.
Influence of mental stress on ventricular pump function in postinfarction patients. An invasive hemodynamic investigation.	To assess the influence of mental stress on ventricular pump function in coronary patients, 88 postinfarction patients (mean age, 53 +/- 10 years) performed mental arithmetic during Swan-Ganz catheterization monitoring a mean of 44 +/- 16 days after myocardial infarction. The test lasted 3 minutes in 66 patients and 10 minutes in 22 patients. Two patients suffered acute pulmonary edema a few minutes after mental arithmetic, but no others complained of symptoms. Mean heart rate increased from 76 +/- 14 to 92 +/- 17 beats/min, mean systolic blood pressure increased from 138 +/- 22 to 160 +/- 27 mm Hg, mean diastolic blood pressure increased from 89 +/- 10 to 101 +/- 15 mm Hg, mean pulmonary wedge pressure increased from 13 +/- 6 to 19 +/- 8 mm Hg (p less than 0.001), and mean stroke volume decreased from 72 +/- 18 to 65 +/- 18 ml (p less than 0.001) during mental arithmetic. The changes in central hemodynamics during mental arithmetic were not predictable from noninvasive parameters. In the 22 patients who performed 10-minute mental arithmetic, the changes persisted throughout mental exercise. Eighty-one patients underwent supine bicycle ergometry after mental arithmetic: Absolute mental arithmetic-pulmonary wedge pressure values correlated with those during exercise at the first stage (25 W) (r = 0.63, p less than 0.001) and at maximal load (77 +/- 29 W) (r = 0.49, p less than 0.001), and pulmonary wedge pressure change between stress values and baseline during mental arithmetic did not correlate with those during the first stage of exercise (r = 0.09, p = NS) or during maximal load (r = 0.11, p = NS). Twenty-nine patients repeated the study 1 year after myocardial infarction, and the same hemodynamic changes were observed during mental arithmetic. In conclusion, it appears that mental stress can cause deteriorations of central hemodynamics that can be independent of changes in heart rate and blood pressure and are not predictable from exercise-induced changes; stress-induced cardiovascular activation can last for at least 10 minutes and is stable over long time periods.
The value of transesophageal echocardiography in children with congenital heart disease.	With the use of dedicated pediatric single-plane probes, transesophageal echocardiography was performed prospectively in 102 children to determine the potential value of this new technique in the diagnosis (40 patients) and the follow-up of congenital heart disease (29 patients) and as a monitoring technique during the perioperative period or interventional cardiac catheterization (33 patients). The findings were correlated with precordial studies (102 patients), cardiac catheterization (82 patients), epicardial ultrasound findings (18 patients), or surgical inspection (34 patients). The age at investigation ranged from 2.5 months to 14.9 years (mean age, 5.2 years); weight ranged from 3.7 to 52 kg (mean weight, 19.1 kg). Additional information was obtained in 49 patients (48.4%) and was relevant for patient management in 21 patients (20.6%). Major areas of improved diagnostic insight included the following: (1) systemic and pulmonary venous return, (2) atrial morphology, (3) atrioventricular junction abnormalities, (4) left ventricular outflow tract disease, (5) atrial baffle function, and (6) the Fontan circulation. Inherent limitations were as follows: (1) the semiinvasive character of the procedure, (2) the need for heavy sedation or general anesthesia, and (3) the limited imaging planes provided. Transesophageal echocardiography in children can provide important additional diagnostic information on a wide spectrum of congenital heart lesions. The technique would appear to be a highly valuable adjunct to the diagnostic armentarium of the pediatric cardiologist.
Right and left ventricular stroke volume measurements with velocity-encoded cine MR imaging: in vitro and in vivo validation.	The accuracy of measurements of flow velocity determined by using cine MR phase velocity mapping--velocity-encoded cine (VEC) MR--was assessed by comparing VEC MR data with independent measurements in a flow phantom and in human subjects. Constant flow velocities generated in a phantom (range, 20-408 cm/sec) were determined correctly by VEC MR (r = .997, standard error of the estimate [SEE] = 7.9 cm/sec). Peak systolic velocities in the main pulmonary artery determined by VEC MR correlated well with the measurements obtained by using continuous-wave Doppler echocardiography (r = .91). Stroke volumes measured at the aorta by VEC MR and continuous-wave Doppler imaging also correlated well with each other (r = .80). VEC MR measurements of aortic and pulmonary flow provided left and right ventricular stroke volumes that correlated well with left ventricular stroke volumes determined by short-axis cine MR images (r = .98, SEE = 3.7 ml, and r = .95, SEE = 4.8 ml, respectively). Intra- and interobserver variabilities were small for both left and right ventricular stroke volumes as measured with VEC MR. These results indicate that VEC MR accurately and reproducibly measures aortic and pulmonary flow velocities and volumes in the physiologic range of humans, and can be used to measure right and left ventricular stroke volumes under normal flow conditions.
Characterization of QT and RR interval series during acute myocardial ischemia by means of recurrence quantification analysis.	This study is aimed to investigate the nonlinear dynamic properties of the fluctuations in ventricular repolarization, heart rate and their correlation during acute myocardial ischemia. From 13 ECG records in long-term ST-T database, 170 ischemic episodes were selected with the duration of 34 s to 23 min 18 s, and two 5-min episodes immediately before and after each ischemic episode as non-ischemic ones for comparison. QT interval (QTI) and RR interval (RRI) were extracted and the ectopic beats were removed. Recurrence quantification analysis (RQA) was performed on QTI and RRI series, respectively, and cross recurrence quantification analysis (CRQA) on paired normalized QTI and RRI series. Wilcoxon signed-rank test was used for statistical analysis. Results revealed that the RQA indexes for QTI and HRI series had the same changing trend during ischemia with more significantly changed indexes in QTI series. In the CRQA, indexes related to the vertical and horizontal structures in recurrence plot significantly increased, representing decreased dependency of QTI on RRI. Both QTI and RRI series showed reduced complexity during ischemia with higher sensitivity in ventricular repolarization. The weakened coupling between QTI and RRI suggests the decreased influence of sinoatrial node on QTI modulation during ischemia.
In vivo quantitative mapping of myocardial stiffening and transmural anisotropy during the cardiac cycle.	Shear wave imaging was evaluated for the in vivo assessment of myocardial biomechanical properties on ten open chest sheep. The use of dedicated ultrasonic sequences implemented on a very high frame rate ultrasonic scanner ( > 5000 frames per second) enables the estimation of the quantitative shear modulus of myocardium several times during one cardiac cycle. A 128 element probe remotely generates a shear wave thanks to the radiation force induced by a focused ultrasonic burst. The resulting shear wave propagation is tracked using the same probe by cross-correlating successive ultrasonic images acquired at a very high frame rate. The shear wave speed estimated at each location in the ultrasonic image gives access to the local myocardial stiffness (shear modulus ). The technique was found to be reproducible (standard deviation ) and able to estimate both systolic and diastolic stiffness on each sheep (respectively (dias)  2 kPa and (syst)  30 kPa). Moreover, the ability of the proposed method to polarize the shear wave generation and propagation along a chosen axis permits the study the local elastic anisotropy of myocardial muscle. As expected, myocardial elastic anisotropy is found to vary with muscle depth. The real time capabilities and potential of Shear Wave Imaging using ultrafast scanners for cardiac applications is finally illustrated by studying the dynamics of this fractional anisotropy during the cardiac cycle.
Tissue Doppler combined with pulsed-wave Doppler echocardiography for evaluating ventricular diastolic function in normal children.	The ratio of the peak transmitral velocity during early diastole (E) to the peak mitral valve annular velocity during early diastole (E') obtained by tissue Doppler imaging correlates with the left ventricular end-diastolic pressure in adults. However, the E/E' ratio has not been established in normal children. The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of age on the various tissue Doppler indices of ventricular diastolic function.
A novel model-based 3D +time left ventricular segmentation technique.	A common approach to model-based segmentation is to assume a top-down modelling strategy. However, this is not feasible for complex 3D +time structures, such as the cardiac left ventricle, due to increased training requirements, aligning difficulties and local minima in resulting models. As our main contribution, we present an alternate bottom-up modelling approach. By combining the variation captured in multiple dimensionally-targeted models at segmentation-time we create a scalable segmentation framework that does not suffer from the "curse of dimensionality." Our second contribution involves a flexible contour coupling technique that allows our segmentation method to adapt to unseen contour configurations outside the training set. This is used to identify the endo- and epicardium contours of the left ventricle by coupling them at segmentation-time, instead of at model-time. We apply our approach to 33 3D +time cardiac MRI datasets and perform comprehensive evaluation against several state-of-the-art works. Quantitative evaluation illustrates that our method requires significantly less training than state-of-the-art model-based methods, while maintaining or improving segmentation accuracy.
Cardiac response to hypobaric hypoxia: persistent changes in cardiac mass, function, and energy metabolism after a trek to Mt. Everest Base Camp.	We postulated that changes in cardiac high-energy phosphate metabolism may underlie the myocardial dysfunction caused by hypobaric hypoxia. Healthy volunteers (n=14) were studied immediately before, and within 4 d of return from, a 17-d trek to Mt. Everest Base Camp (5300 m). (31)P magnetic resonance (MR) spectroscopy was used to measure cardiac phosphocreatine (PCr)/ATP, and MR imaging and echocardiography were used to assess cardiac volumes, mass, and function. Immediately after returning from Mt. Everest, total body weight had fallen by 3% (P<0.05), but left ventricular mass, adjusted for changes in body surface area, had disproportionately decreased by 11% (P<0.05). Alterations in diastolic function were also observed, with a reduction in peak left ventricular filling rates and mitral inflow E/A, by 17% (P<0.05) and 24% (P<0.01), respectively, with no change in hydration status. Compared with pretrek, cardiac PCr/ATP ratio had decreased by 18% (P<0.01). Whether the abnormalities were even greater at altitude is unknown, but all had returned to pretrek levels after 6 mo. The alterations in cardiac morphology, function, and energetics are similar to findings in patients with chronic hypoxia. Thus, a decrease in cardiac PCr/ATP may be a universal response to periods of sustained low oxygen availability, underlying hypoxia-induced cardiac dysfunction in healthy human heart and in patients with cardiopulmonary diseases.
Short-term memory and electrical restitution in the canine transmural ventricle.	Cardiac short-term memory is an intrinsic property of paced myocardium that reflects the influence of pacing history. Using an optical mapping method to record membrane voltage and intracellular calcium (Ca(2 +)(i)), this study investigated the properties and mechanisms of short-term memory in isolated and perfused canine wedge preparations. In addition to the dynamic and S1S2 pacing protocols, a perturbed downsweep pacing protocol was used to get a complete overview of the restitution portrait. Abrupt changes in basic cycle length (BCL) were applied to investigate the accommodation process of action potential duration (APD). The results showed unobvious differences of memory among the epi-, mid- and endo-myocytes, implying an insignificant memory-induced transient heterogeneity in APD across the transmural canine hearts. With the decrease of pacing rate S1, memory gradually elevated and achieved a maximum around 400 ms, and then reduced as S1 decreased further, indicating a non-monotonic relationship between memory and the pacing rate. After suppressing the Ca(2 +)(i) transient with ryanodine (3 mol l(-1)), the accommodation process of APD to a new BCL significantly abbreviated ( = 37.41  4.42 stimuli before ryanodine,  = 15.84  4.74 stimuli after ryanodine, p < 0.01). Therefore, Ca(2 +)(i) cycling was suggested to play an important role in memory during dynamic pacing.
Contribution of late sodium current (I(Na-L)) to rate adaptation of ventricular repolarization and reverse use-dependence of QT-prolonging agents.	Abnormal rate adaptation of ventricular repolarization is arrhythmogenic. There is controversy on the underlying ionic mechanisms for rate-dependent change in repolarization.
Clinical determinants of electrocardiographic and spatial vectorcardiographic descriptors of ventricular repolarization in healthy children.	Although the association of repolarization alterations to the development of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias has received considerable research attention, there is paucity of data regarding what may be considered as normal, especially in children.
Altered microRNA expression associated with reduced catecholamine sensitivity in patients with chronic heart failure.	MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are small non-coding RNAs discovered as potential new gene regulators. Their roles in the development of chronic heart failure (CHF), however, are largely unknown. Reduced catecholamine sensitivity is an early step of CHF. We examined whether altered expression of miRNAs was related to reduced catecholamine sensitivity in patients with CHF.
Is myocardial performance index useful in differential diagnosis of moderate and severe hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy? A serial Doppler echocardiographic evaluation.	The aim of this study was to investigate the importance of myocardial performance index as an additive criterion to Sarnat criteria in differential diagnosis of newborn babies with moderate and severe hypoxic-ischaemic encephalopathy.
The pharmacotherapy implications of ventricular assist device in the patient with end-stage heart failure.	Advances in mechanical circulatory support, such as the use of ventricular assist devices (VADs), have become a means for prolonging survival in end-stage heart failure (HF). VADs decrease the symptoms of HF and improve quality of life by replacing some of the work of a failing heart. They unload the ventricle to provide improved cardiac output and end-organ perfusion, resulting in improvement in cardiorenal syndromes and New York Heart Association functional class rating. VADs are currently used asa bridge to heart transplantation, a bridge to recovery of cardiac function, or as destination therapy. Complications of VAD include bleeding, infections, arrhythmias, multiple organ failure, right ventricular failure, and neurological dysfunction. Patients with VAD have unique pharmacotherapeutic requirements in terms of anticoagulation, appropriate antibiotic selection, and continuation of HF medications. Pharmacists in acute care and community settings are well prepared to care for the patient with VAD. These patients require thorough counseling and follow-up with regard to prevention and treatment of infections, appropriate levels of anticoagulation, and maintenance of fluid balance. A basic understanding of this unique therapy can assist pharmacists in attending to the needs of patients with VAD.
Bariatric surgery and cardiovascular outcomes: a systematic review.	To quantify the impact of bariatric surgery on cardiovascular (CV) risk factors, and on cardiac structure and function.
Patient specific fluid-structure ventricular modelling for integrated cardiac care.	Cardiac diseases represent one of the primary causes of mortality and result in a substantial decrease in quality of life. Optimal surgical planning and long-term treatment are crucial for a successful and cost-effective patient care. Recently developed state-of-the-art imaging techniques supply a wealth of detailed data to support diagnosis. This provides the foundations for a novel approach to clinical planning based on personalisation, which can lead to more tailored treatment plans when compared to strategies based on standard population metrics. The goal of this study is to develop and apply a methodology for creating personalised ventricular models of blood and tissue mechanics to assess patient-specific metrics. Fluid-structure interaction simulations are performed to analyse the diastolic function in hypoplastic left heart patients, who underwent the first stage of a three-step surgical palliation and whose condition must be accurately evaluated to plan further intervention. The kinetic energy changes generated by the blood propagation in early diastole are found to reflect the intraventricular pressure gradient, giving indications on the filling efficiency. This suggests good agreement between the 3D model and the Euler equation, which provides a simplified relationship between pressure and kinetic energy and could, therefore, be applied in the clinical context. 
Morphological and functional measurements of the heart obtained by magnetic resonance imaging in Brazilians.	Still today, measurements used as a reference in the cardiac magnetic resonance imaging have been obtained mainly from studies carried out in North-American and European populations.
Apical rotation as an early indicator of left ventricular systolic dysfunction in acute anterior myocardial infarction: experimental study.	The aim of this study was to determine whether left ventricular (LV) apical rotation assessed by speckle tracking echocardiography (STE) can predict global LV systolic dysfunction after acute anterior myocardial infarction (AMI).
The pulmonary artery catheter: a critical reappraisal.	Balloon floatation pulmonary artery catheters (PACs) have been used for hemodynamic monitoring in cardiac, medical, and surgical intensive care units since the 1970s. With the availability of newer noninvasive diagnostic modalities, particularly echocardiography, the frequency of diagnostic pulmonary artery catheterization has declined. In this review, the evolution of PACs, the results of nonrandomized and randomized studies in various clinical conditions, the uses and abuses of bedside hemodynamic monitoring, and current indications for pulmonary artery catheterization are discussed. 
Adenylyl cyclase regulation in heart failure due to myocardial infarction in rats.	Cardiac adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity was described to be differentially regulated in left and right ventricles (LVs and RVs) of rats with heart failure (HF) due to LV myocardial infarction (MI) (Sethi et al. Am J Physiol 272:H884-H893, 1997). AC activities in LVs and RVs were increased and decreased respectively in rats 8 and 16weeks post MI under basal and stimulatory conditions including AC activation via -adrenergic receptors (-ARs), stimulatory G protein (Gs), and direct AC activation with forskolin (FS). The current study aimed to detect alterations in rat heart AC activities in a comparable model of HF 9weeks post LV MI. Therefore, cardiac AC activities were measured under basal and -AR-, Gs-, or FS-stimulated conditions as well as under inhibition with various MANT [2'(3')-O-(N-methylanthraniloyl)]-nucleotide AC inhibitors and the P-site AC inhibitors NKY80 [2-amino-7-(2-furanyl)-7,8-dihydro-5(6H)-quinazolinone] and vidarabine (9--D-arabinosyladenine, AraAde). Basal and stimulated AC activities along with AC inhibition experiments did not reveal evidence for changes in AC activity in LVs and RVs from MI group animals despite the presence of congestive HF. However, our study is indeterminate. Further studies are required to identify the factors responsible for previously described changes in cardiac AC activity in MI induced HF and to elucidate the role of altered AC regulation in the pathophysiology of HF. In order to detect small changes in AC regulation, larger group sizes than the ones used in our present study are required. 
Angiotensin 1-7 ameliorates diabetic cardiomyopathy and diastolic dysfunction in db/db mice by reducing lipotoxicity and inflammation.	The angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 and angiotensin-(1-7) (Ang 1-7)/MasR (Mas receptor) axis are emerging as a key pathway that can modulate the development of diabetic cardiomyopathy. We studied the effects of Ang 1-7 on diabetic cardiomyopathy in db/db diabetic mice to elucidate the therapeutic effects and mechanism of action.
Hemoglobin A1c predicts heart failure hospitalization independent of baseline cardiac function or B-type natriuretic peptide level.	Diabetes is a major risk factor for heart failure (HF). We examined whether baseline HbA1c level predicts HF incidence independent of other HF risk factors, including baseline cardiac structural and functional abnormalities.
Late potentials are unaffected by radiofrequency catheter ablation in patients with ventricular tachycardia.	Reentrant ventricular tachycardia is dependent on an area of myofibers, embedded in scar tissue, which exhibit slow conduction. Late potentials recorded by signal-averaged electrocardiography appear to correspond to these zones of slow conduction and frequently are present in patients with VT. We hypothesized that elimination of inducible VT by catheter-mediated ablation of critical areas of slow conduction would alter late potentials. Four patients underwent catheter ablation in which radiofrequency current was delivered to zones of slow conduction exhibiting isolated mid-diastolic potentials that could not be dissociated from the tachycardia. The four patients had developed VT (cycle length 382 +/- 50 msec; mean +/- SEM) 13-180 months after inferior myocardial infarction. Late potentials were present in each patient before catheter ablation was attempted. Although VT was not inducible in any patient immediately after ablation, late potentials were still present in all four patients and there was no significant difference in the QRS duration (136.5 +/- 4.0 msec postablation; 135.7 +/- 4.5 msec preablation), root mean square voltage in the terminal 40 msec of the QRS (10.0 +/- 1.0 microV postablation; 5.9 +/- 0.4 microV preablation), or in the duration of the low amplitude signal (69.2 +/- 2.0 msec postablation; 62.7 +/- 3.4 msec preablation). At follow-up electrophysiology study performed 14 +/- 7 days after ablation, one of the four patients had inducible VT. In conclusion, late potentials persist even after successful radiofrequency catheter ablation and do not appear to be useful for predicting results of follow-up electrophysiology study.
Alteration of the QT/RR relationship in patients with idiopathic ventricular tachycardia.	It has been shown that alterations in QT/RR relationship may be associated arrhythmogenesis in several clinical settings. In the present study the QT/RR relationship was studied in 20 patients with idiopathic ventricular tachycardia (12 men and 8 women, aged 41 +/- 14 years) compared to 20 normal subjects (9 men and 11 women, aged 39 +/- 13 years). All the patients were off any antiarrhythmic drugs and had no evidence of intraventricular conduction defects. The QT intervals and their preceding RR intervals were measured on electrocardiogram strips from 24-hour Holter tapes at hourly intervals. The differences in the maximum, minimum, and mean of either the QT interval or its corrected values between patients with idiopathic ventricular tachycardia and normal subjects were not statistically significant. There was a significant correlation between the QT and RR intervals in normal subjects (gamma = 0.73 +/- 0.12, P < 0.05) and in patients with idiopathic ventricular tachycardia (gamma = 0.80 +/- 0.10, P < 0.05). However, the linear regression line of the QT interval against the RR interval were significantly (P < 0.001) altered in patients with idiopathic ventricular tachycardia (QT = 0.24 +/- 0.18 RR) compared to normal subjects (QT = 0.27 +/- 0.12 RR). We conclude that although there is no significant change in the QT interval and its corrected values, the QT/RR relationship is significantly altered in patients with idiopathic ventricular tachycardia as compared to normal subjects. This may be of importance in the pathogenesis of idiopathic ventricular tachycardia in these patients.
Programming a long paced atrioventricular interval may be risky in DDDR pacing.	In patients with intermittent AV block and dual chamber pacemakers, a long paced AV interval of 200 msec or more can be selected to prolong pulse generator life (by avoiding the ventricular pace output) and to enable a more physiological and hemodynamically superior activation sequence. This case report describes the potential risks of programming a long paced AV interval in a patient with a DDDR pacemaker. T wave pacing, as described here, can occur if the conducted QRS complex is not sensed because it occurs during the ventricular blanking period (delivery of the atrial stimulus). This can be initiated by the mechanisms that induce apparent and actual P wave undersensing of the conducted QRS complex. In this case report apparent P wave undersensing and subsequent T wave pacing with ventricular capture (in a patient with intermittent AV block) occurred frequently during an exercise test done in the DDDR mode with a paced AV interval of 200 msec, according to the clinical evaluation protocol.
DDI pacing: indications, expectations, and follow-up.	The DDI mode of pacing that permits noncompetitive atrioventricular sequential bradycardia support was chosen in 65 of 480 (14%) patients selected for dual chamber pacing between February 1985 and March 1990. All patients were implanted with Pacesetter 283 or 285 pulse generators and programmed to DDI. The indications for pacing were sick sinus syndrome (n = 52), combined sinus node dysfunction and AV block (n = 13). Forty-two of these patients had a history of paroxysmal atrial arrhythmias. All patients received passive fixation atrial and ventricular leads. Follow-up thereafter was performed predischarge, and at 6 weeks, 3 and 6 months after discharge. The duration of follow-up ranged from 1-61 months (mean 31 months). Fifty-four of 65 (83%) patients chosen for DDI remain programmed in the DDI mode. Three patients were reprogrammed to VVI and eight to DDD. During the course of follow-up, six patients presented with effective VVI pacing with consistent ventriculoatrial conduction that was appropriately sensed by the atrial circuit with atrial output inhibition. A further four patients presented with "functional undersensing" due to ventricular blanking period (VBP) characteristics in these pulse generators and in this mode. Functional undersensing was eliminated in all but one patient by reprogramming the VBP to 13 msec with no subsequent episodes of provoked crosstalk inhibition. Effective VVI pacing was observed in patients with AV block during times of sinus acceleration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Insights into the pathogenesis of sudden cardiac death from analysis of circadian fluctuations of potential triggering factors.	Sudden cardiac death continues to be a poorly understood event in terms of its underlying pathophysiological mechanisms. The observation of a circadian variability in the incidence of this catastrophic event with a prominent peak in the early morning hours provides an opportunity to study triggering factors that may play a causative role in the genesis of sudden cardiac death. As reviewed in this article, there is convincing evidence that transient disturbances in autonomic tone and the resulting consequences may predispose the heart to increased electrical vulnerability. This evidence is based for instance on circadian fluctuations of spontaneous ventricular ectopic activity and transient ischemia, which may serve as trigger factors for the genesis of sustained ventricular tachyarrhythmias. Analysis of heart rate variability provides further evidence of reduced vagal and elevated sympathetic tone during the morning hours particularly in patients with compromised left ventricular function. Diurnal variations in ventricular repolarization as indicated by QT interval changes in the surface ECG also support the concept of triggering factors in the genesis of sudden cardiac death. Therapeutic measures aiming at a reduction in sympathetic input to the heart have been successful in preventing ventricular fibrillation and thus indicate the importance of unbalanced sympathetic tone in patients prone to sudden cardiac death.
Magnetocardiographic localization of the origin of ventricular ectopic beats.	Magnetocardiographic mapping opens new perspectives for three-dimensional localization of cardiac electrical activation. Using a 37-channel SQUID magnetometer equipment with high shielding, the origin of abnormal ventricular activation was investigated in 18 patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome prior to catheter ablation and in 5 of 31 patients with coronary artery disease having a sufficient number of monomorphic ventricular extrasystoles to enable evaluation. In all WPW-patients, the site of the earliest delta-wave activation was projected onto the AV-valve plane in accordance with the MR images. The result of magnetocardiographic localization was then compared to the site of successful catheter ablation determined by digital imaging processing. After optimization of the algorithms, both sites were in the various planes at the following distance from each other: X-plane: 0.8 +/- 0.9 cm, Y-plane: 1.1 +/- 1.0 cm and Z-plane: 1.5 +/- 1.0 cm. In three-dimensional projection, the mean difference in space between both positions was calculated to be 2.1 +/- 1.7 cm. After this validation ventricular premature beats were localized in another group of patients. In 4 of 5 patients their origin was found at the border of infarct areas. In each case, the progression of the ventricular activation could be pursued. The detected structure of the magnetic field distribution of the VBP's exhibited a stable bipolar pattern, which is comparable to that of ventricular tachycardia, and its algorithms may be used to localize the origin of ventricular tachycardia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Myocardial beta-adrenergic receptor function and high-energy phosphates in brain death--related cardiac dysfunction.	Cardiac failure remains an important problem after heart transplantation and may be associated with events that occur during brain death (BD) before transplantation. In this study, cardiac function is studied after BD, and biochemical evaluation of myocardial high-energy phosphates and the beta-adrenergic receptor system is presented.
Changes in rabbit cardiac function during fulminant endotoxin shock.	Septic shock in humans is usually characterized by severe changes in the left ventricular function, while little is known about the dysfunction of the right ventricle. Rabbits were injected intraventricularly with endotoxin from Escherichia coli at a dose of 2 mg/kg following catheterization of both heart ventricles with the purpose of measuring their pressure, and determining a number of contractility indices. In the animals in which endotoxin shock developed very rapidly and death occurred between the 60th and the 90th min (shock development is called fulminant), we established significant changes in the function of both ventricles. At the 20th min, the intraventricular pressure, EDP and P-(dP/dtmax) increased, indicating a tension lead of the right ventricle. At the same time, there was a decrease in plus dP/dtmax, minus dP/dtmax, (dP/dtmax)/P and [(dP/dt)/P]max, considered evidence for impaired contractility and relaxation of the right ventricular myocardium. During the subsequent observation periods, some of the contractility indices returned to normal. At the 20th min, a reduction of intraventricular pressure, P-(dP/dtmax), plus dP/dtmax, minus dP/dtmax and (dP/dt)P was registered in the left ventricle. Pronounced bradycardia was observed from the 30th min to the end of the experiments. Fulminant endotoxin shock in rabbits occurs as a result of the impaired function of the right ventricle attributed to tension leading and endotoxin-induced biventricular myocardial dysfunction.
Effect of aorto-coronary bypass on function of cardiac ventricles as evaluated by non-invasive techniques during a two year observation]	In 1989-1990, 892 patients with ischemic heart disease were treated at the III Department of Cardiology in Katowice-Ochojec. Aortocoronary bypass was performed in 51 (5.7%) of these patients. Thirty five out of these patients were followed-up for 24 months after surgery. They reported to the hospital for evaluation after 3, 6, 12 and 14 months following a discharge. Efficiency of revascularization was checked with physical examination, and non-invasive tests such as electrocardiography, echocardiography and exercise tolerance testing. Diastolic and symbolic functioning of left and right ventricle was assessed separately. All patients suffered from anginal pain before surgery whereas 85% of operated patients were free from pain. No correlation between incomplete revascularization and recurrence of the anginal pain was noted. Surgery produced an increase in exercise tolerance and maximal load. No significant improvement in the right ventricle was seen during a 2-year follow-up. In the group of patients without previous myocardial infarction measured parameters of cardiac ventricles functioning were better than those in patients who had myocardial infarction. Therefore, the former are better candidates to coronary vessels revascularization.
Global and regional function in microvascular angina]	Because of the existing relation between myocardial blood flow and systolic function, various noninvasive techniques, capable of assessing regional and global left ventricular function, especially two-dimensional echocardiography, have been used in patients with chest pain, ECG evidence of myocardial ischemia and/or reduced coronary flow reserve and angiographically detected normal coronary vessels. The results, however, have been contradictory, while only few of them have reported stress-induced regional or global left ventricular dysfunction combined with ST-segment depression and/or angina. The reason for such discrepancy could be due to a diffuse but patchy distribution of myocardial ischemia, or to a non-ischemic origin of the clinical and instrumental features of this syndrome, relying on the effect of algogenic mediators, as suggested from recent metabolic studies. Even if the most recent theories agree on the functional involvement of the small coronary vessels, many points on microvascular angina remain confused. An agreement on the nosological classification of this syndrome would be welcome, given the high technological cost required for the study of coronary microcirculation.
Pressure-volume loops: a dynamic approach to the assessment of ventricular function.	Analysis of ventricular function in terms of pressure-volume or pressure-dimension relationships allows global and regional ventricular dynamics to be fully analyzed. In addition, this approach allows the relationships between muscle function (contractility, stiffness, potential energy) and pump function (stroke volume, stroke work) to be determined and predicted. Alterations in ventricular loading conditions can also be examined in terms of muscle and pump function. However, this analysis is more complex than initially thought and considerable care must be taken especially when regional ischemia is concerned. Moreover, some of the early assumptions have been disproved and conclusions can only be drawn from studies in which full assessment of changes in pressure and dimensions is available.
Ventricular function after anatomic repair in patients with atrioventricular discordance.	Since June 1989, 18 patients with atrioventricular discordant anomalies under 15 years of age underwent anatomic correction, or double switch operation, with 2 hospital deaths (11%). Ages ranged from 1 year 4 months to 12 years (mean 7.2 years) and body weights ranged from 7.1 to 32.5 kg (mean 20.1 kg) at operation. Visceral situs was solitus in 12 and inversus in 6. Ventriculoarterial connection was discordant in 4 and double-outlet in 14. All had associated congenital cardiac anomalies consisting of ventricular septal defect in 17, atrial septal defect in 9, pulmonary atresia in 10, pulmonary stenosis in 6, systemic tricuspid regurgitation in 9, mitral regurgitation in 6, bilateral superior venae cavae in 6, patent ductus arteriosus in 6, Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome in 2, and congenital atrioventricular block in 1. Previous palliation had been performed 19 times in 11 patients including systemic-pulmonary shunts in 10 patients and pulmonary banding in 1 patient. Anatomic correction consisted in the Mustard procedure in 12 or the Senning procedure in 6 at the atrial level and in external conduit repair in 14, arterial switch operations in 3, or direct anastomosis between the pulmonary artery and right ventricle in 1 at the ventriculoarterial level. The arterial switch operation was indicated in patients with a normal pulmonary valve, and external conduit repair was indicated for patients with pulmonic stenosis or atresia. Anatomic right ventricular end-diastolic volume showed significant reduction from 122.2% +/- 46.3% of normal to 78.8% +/- 24.0%, mainly owing to unloading of the ventricle after the operation (p < 0.0003). Right ventricular ejection fraction remained unchanged (56% +/- 8% to 56% +/- 6%). Anatomic left ventricular end-diastolic volume and left ventricular ejection fraction remained unchanged before and after the operation: volume 134.6% +/- 50.0% of normal to 127.3% +/- 32.8% and ejection fraction from 61% +/- 8% to 56% +/- 8%. Cardiac index averaged 3.1 +/- 0.5 L/min per square meter after the operation. The double switch operation is best indicated in patients with atrioventricular discordance associated with systemic tricuspid regurgitation and/or with poor systemic right ventricular function.
Ventricular systolic assessment in patients with dilated cardiomyopathy by preload-adjusted maximal power. Validation and noninvasive application.	Noninvasive cardiac-specific analysis of contractile function in patients with dilated heart failure remains problematic. This study tests whether maximal power divided by the square of end-diastolic volume (PWRmx/EDV2, or preload-adjusted PWRmx) can provide such assessment.
Ventricular beats induce variations in cycle length of rapid (type II) atrial flutter in humans. Evidence of leading circle reentry.	Slight variation in cycle lengths of common and rapid atrial flutter in humans is an established phenomenon, but its mechanisms have not been completely clarified. In a previous study, we demonstrated that in common atrial flutter the variations in atrial cycle length were due to atrial stretch affecting the revolution time of a reentrant circuit. In the present study, we investigate the nature of atrial cycle length variations in the rapid type of human atrial flutter.
Diastolic function of the fetal heart during second and third trimester: a prospective longitudinal Doppler-echocardiographic study.	To generate normal charts of fetal cardiac inflow velocities and to assess physiologic changes of ventricular diastolic function, velocity waveforms of tricuspid and mitral valves were studied longitudinally in 49 fetuses in 4 week intervals from 14 weeks gestation to term. Doppler tracings were analyzed for: peak early (E) and peak late (A) inflow velocities, time velocity integral (TVI) of total inflow and A-wave velocity waveforms and heart rate corrected isovolemic relaxation time. E- and A-velocity as well as total- and A-wave-TVI of both valves increased significantly with gestational age (P < 0.001). Heart rate and A/E ratio decreased significantly with gestational age (P < 0.001). The ratio of A-wave TVI to total TVI of both valves and heart rate corrected isovolemic relaxation time (IVR) was constant suggesting unchanged diastolic function. This study provides normal charts for fetal cardiac inflow velocities. After 14 weeks of gestation all inflow velocities and their respective TVI's increased linearly in the growing fetal heart. There was evidence that diastolic function did not change. Area ratios and IVR should be used to determine changes in ventricular diastolic function, rather than velocity ratios.
Site of accessory pathway block after radiofrequency catheter ablation in patients with the Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome.	Recent studies have demonstrated that the most common site of accessory pathway conduction block following the introduction of a premature atrial stimulus during atrial pacing is between the accessory pathway potential and the ventricular electrogram, consistent with block at the ventricular insertion of the accessory pathway. However, no prior study has evaluated the site of conduction block during radiofrequency catheter ablation procedures. Therefore, the objective of this study was to determine the site of conduction block after catheter ablation of accessory pathways by analyzing and comparing the local electrograms recorded before and after radiofrequency energy delivery at successful ablation sites.
Identifying the end of ventricular activation: body surface late potentials versus electrogram measurements in a canine infarction model.	Identification of the end of the QRS is perhaps the single most important feature obtained from the high resolution signal-averaged electrocardiogram (SAECG). This point relies on computer algorithms to select a point above the noise levels. Prior studies to substantiate this approach using electrograms for comparison have demonstrated many examples of the body surface recordings failing to detect the full extent of the late potentials.
Cardiac involvement in rheumatoid arthritis: an echocardiographic study.	Thirty-nine consecutive patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and 40 control subjects were studied by echocardiography in order to assess the incidence of cardiac involvement in this disease. The occurrence of anatomic lesions in our series was lower than that observed in other studies. No differences in mean values of left and right ventricular diastolic function indexes obtained by Doppler echocardiography were found between patients and controls. However, in 26% of patients with RA, left ventricular abnormalities probably secondary to myocardial fibrosis were observed.
Use of monophasic action potentials to evaluate postpacing T wave changes.	We examined the relationship between postpacing T wave changes and monophasic action potentials recorded from the ventricle in dogs. MAPs were recorded from the right and left ventricle before and after cessation of pacing. The duration of the MAP was calculated as the time in milliseconds from the upstroke to 90% repolarization (MAPD90). T waves in limb leads were flat or had a biphasic pattern, eventually becoming negative after pacing. The Q-T interval of the escape beat after pacing was prolonged compared with the control. After right ventricular pacing, the average duration of MAPD90 in the right ventricle, but not in the left ventricle, was prolonged. (right MAPD: control 275 +/- 10 ms; after pacing: 311 +/- 17 ms, p < 0.05; left MAPD: control: 266 +/- 23 ms, after pacing: 284 +/- 26 ms, NS). After left ventricular pacing, the average duration of MAPD90 in the left ventricle, but not in the right ventricle, was prolonged (right MAPD: control: 247 +/- 75 ms, after pacing: 287 +/- 39 ms, NS; left MAPD: control: 257 +/- 23 ms, after pacing: 303 +/- 25 ms, p < 0.05). Furthermore, the average duration of MAPD90 at the pacing site became progressively prolonged over time. These results suggest that myocardial cells retain the memory of abnormal repolarization associated with pacing.
Assessment of preload reserve in myocardial ischemia--the relation between preload reserve and ischemic size differs between anterior descending and circumflex coronary artery occlusions in a canine model.	The role of changes in preload in maintaining stable hemodynamics during coronary obstruction was assessed in the presence of myocardial ischemia due to occlusions of the left anterior descending (LAD) and left circumflex (LCX) coronary arteries. Changes in preload (mean left atrial pressure) to maintain a constant stroke volume after coronary occlusion were examined in 18 anesthetized dogs (LAD occlusion in 9 dogs, LCX occlusion in 9 dogs). The level of ischemia was assessed sonomicrometrically. Ventricular function curves relating left atrial pressure to stroke volume were assessed during a control state and after 1 min of coronary occlusion. The extent of preload reserve after coronary occlusion was examined on the ventricular function curves and was defined as the change in mean left atrial pressure required to maintain stroke volume at the level of the control state under conditions of regional ischemia. Ischemic size was determined by a stereo-angiogram after the animals were sacrificed. The extent of preload reserve (X) was linearly related to the ischemic size (Y) in both LAD (Y = 0.90 + 0.16X, r = 0.76, p < 0.001) and LCX (Y = -1.79 + 0.19X, r = 0.79, p < 0.001) occlusions. The slopes of the regression lines in LAD and LCX occlusions were the same. The X intercepts of these lines were -5.6% and 9.4% of the left ventricular weight in LAD and LCX ischemia (p < 0.001), respectively. Thus, the presence of systolic wall motion abnormalities due to coronary occlusion can be compensated for hemodynamically by changes in the preload reserve.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Hemodynamics of different degrees of right heart bypass: experimental assessment.	Although their assessment could be of the utmost importance to determine the surgical treatment for patients with univentricular hearts, differences in ventricular performance between partial and complete right heart bypass remain to be defined.
Spatial ventricular gradient in patients with Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome in comparison with normal subjects: vectorcardiographic evidence for significant repolarization changes due to preexcitation.	We investigated the use of the spatial ventricular gradient (VG) from vectorcardiogram (VCG) to determine whether significant repolarization differences were present in patients with WPW syndrome compared with normal subjects and also examined which VG parameter (i.e., elevation, azimuth, and magnitude) reflected the differences in repolarization properties during preexcitation. VG was calculated in 49 patients of Wolff-Parkinson-White (WPW) syndrome (group A: left-sided accessory pathway, n = 29; group B: right-sided, n = 20). Group N consisted of 607 normal subjects. In group A, the azimuth of VG was significantly (p < 0.01) greater than in groups B and N. In group B, the elevation of VG was significantly (p < 0.01) greater than in groups A and N. There were no significant differences in the magnitude of VG among groups. QRS duration was significantly (p < 0.01) related with the elevation of VG in group B. These findings suggested that VG is useful for spatial evaluation of repolarization abnormalities during preexcitation, which are related to the site of the accessory pathway.
The role of stressor intensity in influencing the course of heart disease in cardiomyopathic hamsters.	Our earlier work showed that stress had progressively more serious consequences in a hamster model of congestive heart failure as the magnitude of heart failure worsened. Based on that study, we hypothesized that the intensity of the stressor used might play an important part in determining this outcome as well as in influencing coronary reactivity to arginine vasopressin (AVP). Cardiomyopathic (2.5, 6.5, and 10 months) hamsters (CMHs) were stressed with a 2-hr period of supine immobilization for five consecutive days. Stressor intensity was increased by exposing the hamsters to progressively longer periods at 4 degrees C: the low stress group was never put in the cold; the moderate stress group was exposed to cold for 1 hr, and the high stress group for 2 hr. CMHs were anesthetized and sacrificed 5 days after stress, and their hearts were perfused using a modified Langendorff system. Maximum +/- dP/dt, developed pressure, ventricular relaxation time, (T), and coronary vascular resistance (CVR) were recorded, and CVR was also measured following coronary infusion of AVP. Stressor intensity had no effect on cardiac mechanics in 2.5-month CMHs. In 6.5-month CMHs, only the high-intensity stressor impaired ventricular mechanics (decreased maximum +/- dP/dt and developed pressure, increased T; P < 0.05), while low and moderate stress produced no effects. In 10-month CMHs, stress at all intensities exacerbated ventricular dysfunction (decreased maximum +/- dP/dt and developed pressure; P < 0.05). These results support our first hypothesis that stressor intensity interacts multiplicatively with severity of the underlying disease to influence the course of heart failure. However, our second hypothesis was not supported, because stress-regardless of intensity-affected reactivity of the coronary vasculature to AVP only in 2.5-month CMHs. A further test of the relation of stressor intensity and coronary vascular reactivity requires study of additional groups of CMHs during the period of their disease characterized by coronary vasospasm.
Selective radiofrequency ablation of the "slow" atrioventricular nodal pathway for control of the ventricular response to atrial fibrillation.	In summary, this study reports 2 important findings: (1) AV nodal modification using the conservative protocol we describe reduces long-term success for ventricular rate control during atrial fibrillation but eliminates the incidence of permanent AV block; (2) directed lesions that eliminate clinical AV nodal reentry slow ventricular response to acute atrial fibrillation but are not sufficient to control ventricular response of chronic atrial fibrillation. Further refinement of these techniques may allow an optimal balance between rate control and avoidance of permanent pacing.
Retransplantation reverses mononuclear infiltration but not myointimal proliferation in a rat model of chronic cardiac allograft rejection.	Episodes of acute rejection seem to play an important role in the development of chronic allograft failure. Whereas acute rejection appears to be fully reversible, at least at early stages, reversibility of chronic graft alterations is still unclear. Male Fisher F344 rat hearts were heterotopically transplanted into Lewis recipients (n=8/group). Minimal immunosuppression (rapamycin 0.5 mg/kg for 14 days) guaranteed allograft survival during the observation period (group 1). Allografted hearts were retransplanted into syngeneic recipients after 14 days (group 2) and 50 days (group 3) and compared with F344 isografts undergoing retransplantation after 4 days (group 4) and with F344 isografts without a second procedure (group 5). All organs were removed after 100 days and morphologically and immunohistologically assessed. Allografts of group 1 developed concentric myointimal proliferation with dense intramural and perivascular mononuclear infiltration and intravascular thrombosis in 59 +/- 7% of coronary arteries. Retransplantation into syngeneic recipients almost completely abolished mononuclear infiltration, but did not affect the development of myointimal proliferation (groups 2/3: 46 +/- 7%/31 +/- 24%, NS). Isograft retransplantation resulted in a similar incidence of coronary lotions (group 4: 37 +/- 9%, NS), whereas coronary arteries of isografts without a second transplant procedure (group 5) remained normal (0%, P<0.001). In conclusion, syngeneic retransplantation of allografts reverses mononuclear infiltration but not myointimal proliferation. The development of coronary lesions in retransplanted isografts underlines the participation of antigen-independent stimuli in the development of myointimal proliferation. These experiments further support the hypothesis of an interaction of antigen-dependent and antigen-independent factors for the development of coronary myointimal proliferation.
Continuous measurement of blood pressure, heart rate and left ventricular performance during and after isometric exercise in head-out water immersion.	Experiments were performed to determine the changes in blood pressure (BP), heart rate (HR) and left ventricular function during and after isometric knee extension during thermoneutral (35 degrees C) head-out water immersion (HWI) or in air. Seven healthy male subjects mean age 24 (SD 3) years kept their knees extended (60% maximal voluntary extension) until they reached exhaustion. The mean BP at rest was 80 (SD 10) and 78 (SD 8) mmHg [10.7 (SD 1.33) and 10.4 (SD 1.07)kPa] in air and during HWI, respectively, (NS). They increased progressively (P < 0.01) during contraction and reached maximal values of 148 (SD 22) and 143 (SD 26) mmHg [19.7 (SD 2.93) and 19.1 (SD 3.47)kPa] in air and in HWI, respectively, (NS). The mean HR at rest was 74 (SD 8) and 70 (SD 11) beats.min-1 in air and in HWI, respectively, (NS). They also increased progressively, (P < 0.01) and reached 126 (SD 14) and 118 (SD 17) beats.min-1 in air and in HWI, respectively, (NS). The changes in BP and HR during contraction in HWI tended to be smaller than those in air (NS). Left ventricular end diastolic diameters (dd) at rest in HWI were greater than those in air and were maintained at higher values during and after isometric contraction. In contrast, dd decreased during isometric contraction in air (P < 0.01). The change of left ventricular systolic diameters (ds) in HWI was no different to those in air. From these findings, isometric exercise in thermoneutral HWI would seem to be characterized by a greater dd than in air and this could be useful for patients with deconditioning effects such as orthostatic hypotension.
Depression of excitability by sphingosine 1-phosphate in rat ventricular myocytes.	Sphingosine 1-phosphate (S-1-P) is a bioactive sphingolipid that is released from activated platelets. Extracellular S-1-P augments an inwardly rectifying potassium conductance in cultured atrial preparations, but the electrophysiological effects of this compound in the ventricle are unknown. The electrophysiological effects of S-1-P were examined in single myocytes from rat ventricular muscle. Action potential waveforms and underlying ionic currents in the presence and absence of 3 microM S-1-P (1-6 min) were recorded. S-1-P increased the minimum stimulus current needed to elicit an action potential by approximately 100 pA. Pertussis toxin or preexposure to S-1-P did not alter this effect. The action potential waveform was unchanged by S-1-P. The inward sodium current (INa) was examined in a range of membrane potentials just negative to the potential for firing an action potential. S-1-P reversibly inhibited peak INa by approximately 50 pA, whereas the inward rectifier potassium current was not significantly changed. The results of this study suggest that S-1-P inhibits rat ventricular excitability by reducing INa.
Mitral valve repair in cardiomyopathy.	Volume overload secondary to mitral regurgitation (MR) in cardiomyopathy is considered critical in the pathogenesis of subsequent ventricular dysfunction. Open mitral valve repair (OMVP) is hypothesized to improve symptomatology and ventricular function by reducing the volume overload of the left ventricle.
ATP-sensitive potassium channel activation before cardioplegia. Effects on ventricular and myocyte function.	Pretreatment with potassium channel openers (PCOs) has been shown to provide protective effects in the setting of myocardial ischemia. The goal of the present study was to examine whether PCO pretreatment would provide protective effects on left ventricular (LV) and myocyte function after cardioplegic arrest.
Improved cardiac function after catheter ablation in a patient with type B Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome with an old myocardial infarction.	A 67-year-old man was admitted to hospital for the treatment of exertional dyspnea. He suffered from congestive heart failure due to an old inferior myocardial infarction with type B Wolff-Parkinson-White syndrome. Asynchronous wall motion caused by pre-excitation through a right-side bypass tract caused his cardiac function to deteriorate. Catheter ablation of the bypass tract increased the ejection fraction, and improved his symptoms, prior to surgical revascularization.
Unipolar sensing in contemporary pacemakers: using myopotential testing to define optimal sensitivity settings.	Bipolar lead use has increased due to oversensing concerns with older unipolar systems. Data on contemporary unipolar devices with improved hardware design and greater programming flexibility is lacking. Using a randomized crossover design, unipolar and bipolar sensing characteristics of 22 atrial and 16 ventricular leads were compared in 34 patients who had pulse generators of programmable polarity. Unipolar and bipolar intracardiac electrogram amplitudes, pacing and sensing thresholds at rest were similar. Provocative maneuvers were used to assess for myopotential inhibition. At atrial sensitivities of 0.625-1.50 mV, myopotential inhibition occurred in 11 (50%) atrial leads in the unipolar mode compared to 1 (5%) in the bipolar mode (p < 0.001). At sensitivities of > 1.50 mV myopotential inhibition occurred in only 1 ventricular (unipolar) lead. An optimal sensitivity setting for each polarity was derived using clinic test results and assessed by ambulatory ECG (AECG). At these optimal settings, oversensing occurred in 1 (6%) atrial and 1 (8%) ventricular unipolar lead during AECG monitoring, whereas oversensing was not seen in any leads programmed to the bipolar mode. Undersensing occurred in 5 (29%) atrial unipolar versus 1 (6%) bipolar lead (p = 0.08). Undersensing was not observed in any of the ventricular leads. Myopotential inhibition may be frequently provoked by provocative maneuvers at higher sensitivity settings in atrial unipolar leads. The frequency of oversensing can be significantly reduced by defining an optimal sensitivity setting using simple isometric maneuvers. Given present day concerns over bipolar lead longevity, increased utilization of unipolar ventricular leads should be considered.
Ventricular performance and quality of life in patients who underwent radiofrequency AV junction ablation and permanent pacemaker implantation due to medically refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias.	In patients with drug refractory atrial tachyarrhythmias and previous failed attempts of ablation of the arrhythmia substrate, radiofrequency (RF) modulation or ablation of the atrioventricular (AV) junction is an alternative procedure.
