Utility of genetic screening in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: prevalence and significance of novel and double (homozygous and heterozygous) beta-myosin mutations.	Genetic screening of the beta-myosin heavy chain gene (MYH7) was evaluated in 100 consecutive unrelated patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) and 200 normal unrelated subjects. Seventeen beta-myosin mutations were identified in 19 patients. Notably, 13, or 76%, were novel. Mutations were detected in both alleles in two patients: homozygous for Lys207Gln in one, and heterozygous for Pro211 Leu and Arg663His in another. No mutation was detected in the controls. MYH7-associated HCM was associated with more marked left atrial enlargement and syncope than non-MYH7-related HCM. Our findings indicate that: (1) screening methods should allow identification of novel mutations; and (2) more than one sarcomeric mutation may be present in a patient more commonly than is appreciated. Further studies are necessary to ascertain the clinical consequences of the novel and compound gene abnormalities, and to determine whether correlating functional domain to phenotype provides more useful information about the clinical significance of the molecular defects.
Evidence for fusion between cardiac and skeletal muscle cells.	Cardiomyoplasty with skeletal myoblasts may benefit cardiac function after infarction. Recent reports indicate that adult stem cells can fuse with other cell types. Because myoblasts are "fusigenic" cells by nature, we hypothesized they might be particularly likely to fuse with cardiomyocytes. To test this, neonatal rat cardiomyocytes labeled with LacZ and green fluorescent protein (GFP) were cocultured with unlabeled C2C12 myoblasts. After 3 days, we observed a small population of skeletal myotubes that expressed LacZ and GFP, indicating cell fusion. To test whether such fusion occurred in vivo, LacZ-expressing C2C12 myoblasts were grafted into normal nude mouse hearts. At 2 weeks after grafting, cells at the graft-host interface expressed both LacZ and cardiac-specific myosin light chain 2v (MLC2v). To test more definitively whether fusion between skeletal and cardiac muscle could occur, we used a Cre/lox reporter system that activated LacZ only upon cell fusion. When neonatal cardiomyocytes from -myosin heavy chain promoter (-MHC)-Cre mice were cocultured with myoblasts from floxed-lacZ reporter mice, LacZ was activated in a subset of cells, indicating cell fusion occurred in vitro. Finally, we grafted the floxed-lacZ myoblasts into normal hearts of -MHC-Cre+ and -MHC-Cre- mice (n=5 each). Hearts analyzed at 4 days and 1 week after transplantation demonstrated activation of LacZ when the skeletal muscle cells were implanted into hearts of -MHC-Cre+ mice, but not after implantation into -MHC-Cre- mice. These data indicate that skeletal muscle cell grafting gives rise to a subpopulation of skeletal-cardiac hybrid cells with a currently unknown phenotype. The full text of this article is available online at http://circres.ahajournals.org.
Familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy: genes, mutations and animal models. A review]	Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (HCM) is an autosomal dominant disease, which may afflict as many as 1 in 500 subjects (0.2%), being probably the most common hereditary cardiovascular disease and the most common cause of sudden cardiac death (SCD). Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is characterized by the presence of unexplained left ventricular hypertrophy (in absence of hypertension, valvular disease, etc), which is usually asymmetric and involves the ventricular septum. Molecular genetic studies have identified eleven genes that code proteins of the sarcomere that are associated with the HCM; the beta-myosin heavy chain gene (MYH7), alpha-myosin heavy chain (MYH6), cardiac troponin T (TNNT2); cardiac troponin C (TNNC1), alpha-tropomyosin (TPM1), myosin binding protein-C (MYBPC3), cardiac troponin (TNNI3), essential and regulatory light chain genes (MYL3 and MYL2, respectively), cardiac alpha-actin gene (ACTC) and titin (TTN). The objective of this paper is the revision of the current state of the knowledge on (1) the organization and mutations of the HCM causing genes and their proteins and (2) the animal models developed for the study of the genes, mutations and proteins in the hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
S100A6 is a negative regulator of the induction of cardiac genes by trophic stimuli in cultured rat myocytes.	S100A6 (calcyclin), a member of the S100 family of EF-hand Ca2+ binding proteins, has been implicated in the regulation of cell growth and proliferation. We have previously shown that S100B, another member of the S100 family, is induced postinfarction and limits the hypertrophic response of surviving cardiac myocytes. We presently report that S100A6 expression is also increased in the periinfarct zone of rat heart postinfarction and in cultured neonatal rat myocytes by treatment with several trophic agents, including platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), the alpha1-adrenergic agonist phenylephrine (PE), and angiotensin II (AII). Cotransfection of S100A6 in cultured neonatal rat cardiac myocytes inhibits induction of the cardiac fetal gene promoters skeletal alpha-actin (skACT) and beta-myosin heavy chain (beta-MHC) by PDGF, PE, AII, and the prostaglandin F2alpha (PGF2alpha), induction of the S100B promoter by PE, and induction of the alpha-MHC promoter by triiodothyronine (T3). By contrast, S100B cotransfection selectively inhibited only PE induction of skACT and beta-MHC promoters. Fluorescence microscopy demonstrated overlapping intracellular distribution of S100B and S100A6 in transfected myocytes and in postinfarct myocardium but heterodimerization of the two proteins could not be detected by co-immunoprecipitation. We conclude that S100A6 may function as a global negative modulator of differentiated cardiac gene expression comparable to its putative role in cell cycle progression of dividing cells.
Development of a sodium/iodide symporter (NIS)-transgenic mouse for imaging of cardiomyocyte-specific reporter gene expression.	Development of a small animal imaging system for differentiated cell-specific reporter gene expression will enable us to image cellular differentiation in vivo. In this study, we developed a sodium/iodide symporter (NIS)-transgenic mouse in which NIS is constitutively expressed as an imaging reporter gene only in cardiomyocytes.
Calcium-independent negative inotropy by beta-myosin heavy chain gene transfer in cardiac myocytes.	Increased relative expression of the slow molecular motor of the heart (beta-myosin heavy chain [MyHC]) is well known to occur in many rodent models of cardiovascular disease and in human heart failure. The direct effect of increased relative beta-MyHC expression on intact cardiac myocyte contractility, however, is unclear. To determine the direct effects of increased relative beta-MyHC expression on cardiac contractility, we used acute genetic engineering with a recombinant adenoviral vector (AdMYH7) to genetically titrate beta-MyHC protein expression in isolated rodent ventricular cardiac myocytes that predominantly expressed alpha-MyHC (fast molecular motor). AdMYH7-directed beta-MyHC protein expression and sarcomeric incorporation was observed as soon as 1 day after gene transfer. Effects of beta-MyHC expression on myocyte contractility were determined in electrically paced single myocytes (0.2 Hz, 37 degrees C) by measuring sarcomere shortening and intracellular calcium cycling. Gene transfer-based replacement of alpha-MyHC with beta-MyHC attenuated contractility in a dose-dependent manner, whereas calcium transients were unaffected. For example, when beta-MyHC expression accounted for approximately 18% of the total sarcomeric myosin, the amplitude of sarcomere-length shortening (nanometers, nm) was depressed by 42% (151.0+/-10.7 [control] versus 87.0+/-5.4 nm [AdMYH7 transduced]); and genetic titration of beta-MyHC, leading to 38% beta-MyHC content, attenuated shortening by 57% (138.9+/-13.0 versus 59.7+/-7.1 nm). Maximal isometric cross-bridge cycling rate was also slower in AdMYH7-transduced myocytes. Results indicate that small increases of beta-MyHC expression (18%) have Ca2+ transient-independent physiologically relevant effects to decrease intact cardiac myocyte function. We conclude that beta-MyHC is a negative inotrope among the cardiac myofilament proteins.
Control of stress-dependent cardiac growth and gene expression by a microRNA.	The heart responds to diverse forms of stress by hypertrophic growth accompanied by fibrosis and eventual diminution of contractility, which results from down-regulation of alpha-myosin heavy chain (alphaMHC) and up-regulation of betaMHC, the primary contractile proteins of the heart. We found that a cardiac-specific microRNA (miR-208) encoded by an intron of the alphaMHC gene is required for cardiomyocyte hypertrophy, fibrosis, and expression of betaMHC in response to stress and hypothyroidism. Thus, the alphaMHC gene, in addition to encoding a major cardiac contractile protein, regulates cardiac growth and gene expression in response to stress and hormonal signaling through miR-208.
Aldosterone antagonism fails to attenuate age-associated left ventricular fibrosis.	Collagen accumulates disproportionately in cardiac remodeling induced by hypertension and associated with advancing age. Spironolactone (Spiro), an aldosterone antagonist, attenuates the accumulation of collagen induced by hypertension. It was hypothesized that Spiro would attenuate the age-associated increase in percent collagen in the heart. Female Fisher 344 rats at 3 months (Y), 12 months (M), and 21 months (O) of age were treated with Spiro (30 mg/kg/d) or vehicle (Veh) for 2 months, yielding six groups: Y-Veh, Y-Spiro, M-Veh, M-Spiro, O-Veh, and O-Spiro. Hearts were harvested for immunoblotting, RNA blotting, and biochemical analysis. Percent collagen in the left ventricle and septum was greatest in the oldest rats. Spiro did not significantly attenuate the age-associated increase in collagen fraction or the age-associated increases in expression of atrial natriuretic factor and beta-myosin heavy chain messenger RNA. Chronic aldosterone antagonism does not attenuate the age-associated increase in collagen fraction in the female Fisher 344 rat heart.
Insights into human beta-cardiac myosin function from single molecule and single cell studies.	beta-Cardiac myosin is a mechanoenzyme that converts the energy from ATP hydrolysis into a mechanical force that drives contractility in muscle. Thirty percent of the point mutations that result in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy are localized to MYH7, the gene encoding human beta-cardiac myosin heavy chain (beta-MyHC). Force generation by myosins requires a tight and highly conserved allosteric coupling between its different protein domains. Hence, the effects of single point mutations on the force generation and kinetics of beta-cardiac myosin molecules cannot be predicted directly from their location within the protein structure. Great insight would be gained from understanding the link between the functional defect in the myosin protein and the clinical phenotypes of patients expressing them. Over the last decade, several single molecule techniques have been developed to understand in detail the chemomechanical cycle of different myosins. In this review, we highlight the single molecule techniques that can be used to assess the effect of point mutations on beta-cardiac myosin function. Recent bioengineering advances have enabled the micromanipulation of single cardiomyocyte cells to characterize their force-length dynamics. Here, we briefly review single cell micromanipulation as an approach to determine the effect of beta-MyHC mutations on cardiomyocyte function. Finally, we examine the technical challenges specific to studying beta-cardiac myosin function both using single molecule and single cell approaches.
