Decrease in the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation as the initially observed arrhythmia after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest during 11 years in Sweden.	To describe the change in the occurrence of ventricular fibrillation as initially observed arrhythmia among patients suffering from out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in Sweden.
Prevalence of drug-induced electrocardiographic pattern of the Brugada syndrome in a healthy population.	To determine the prevalence of drug-induced Brugada's syndrome (BrS) electrocardiograms (ECGs) in a healthy population, a sodium channel blockade challenge was performed in previously identified subjects with BrS-compatible (BrC) ECGs. These subjects were detected in 1,000 normal patients in whom first ECGs were systematically recorded. Because of the intermittent nature of electrocardiographic modifications in BrS, second ECGs were also recorded in a representative sample of the population presenting with first ECGs with normal results. The prevalence of typical drug-induced BrS ECGs was 5 of the 1,000 patients. This value was fivefold greater than the reported prevalence of spontaneous BrS ECGs in the healthy population.
Echocardiographic algorithms for admission and predischarge prediction of mortality in acute myocardial infarction.	To develop improved prognostic algorithms for routine bedside use in acute myocardial infarction (AMI), the prognostic value concerning 2- and 12-month mortality of an early (within 72 hours after AMI) resting echocardiogram was defined in 201 consecutive patients. The relation between (1) the clinical variables (age, sex, prior and repeat AMI, arrhythmias, cardiac arrest, early [less than 72 hours after AMI] and late heart failure, early and maximal in-hospital Killip class, and maximal creatine kinase-MB isoenzyme), (2) early myocardial performance by echocardiography, and (3) mortality was characterized by Kaplan-Meier survival curves and receiver-operating characteristic curves based on Cox regression model. Only age and clinical heart failure in terms of the maximal in-hospital Killip class had independent predictive value of death (p less than 0.05) when an early echocardiographic estimate of left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) was included in the multivariate statistical models. The following 2 optimized algorithms for admission and predischarge calculation of risk of mortality at 2 and 12 months were developed based on the Cox model, using combinations of age, maximal Killip class and early echocardiographic LVEF: mortality at 2 months = 1 - exp - [0.051 x exp [0.044 x (age -60) - (0.117 x (LVEF - 40)]]; and mortality at 1 year = 1 - exp - [0.101 x exp [0.408 x (maxKillip - 1) - (0.061 x (LVEF - 40)]]. Discriminative power for prediction of mortality of the predischarge algorithm in an independent population of 195 patients 5 days after AMI compared favorably with that obtained in the original population, confirming the validity of the proposed method of prognostication.
Long-term community hospital experience with the internal defibrillator.	Seventy-seven patients with drug refractory ventricular tachycardia (57) and ventricular fibrillation (20) received the implantable defibrillator. There were 55 men and 22 women with a mean age of 63 +/- 10 years. The anatomical diagnoses were coronary artery disease in 61 patients, cardiomyopathy in 15 patients, and aortic stenosis in one patient. The mean ejection fraction was 32 +/- 12%. Concurrent surgery at defibrillator implantation was coronary bypass in eight patients and aortic valve replacement in one patient. There were no intraoperative mortalities. The mean ventricular fibrillation termination threshold was 13 +/- 6 joules. During a follow-up period of 16 +/- 10 months (range 2-40 months) four patients died: electrical mechanical dissociation (two patients), respiratory failure, and sepsis. Thirty-eight patients (51%) continued receiving antiarrhythmic drug therapy, with quinidine sulfate and procainamide being the most frequently utilized agents. Fifty-four patients (72%) have received a mean of 9 +/- 10 shocks (range 1-44). Implantable defibrillators are often needed in patients seen in large community hospitals. This technology can be administered successfully in this setting with complications and results comparable to those reported from university hospitals. Implantable defibrillators are effective in preventing arrhythmic death and can be used with low risk to the patients.
Effect of antiarrhythmic drug therapy on the incidence of shocks in patients who receive an implantable cardioverter defibrillator after a single episode of sustained ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation.	Seventy-four patients (16 women, 58 men, age 58 +/- 11 years, mean +/- standard deviation) who received an implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) after experiencing a single episode of ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation were followed to determine if antiarrhythmic drug therapy affects the incidence of ICD discharges. Thirty-three patients (group A) were treated with an antiarrhythmic drug that was either untested or previously demonstrated during electropharmacological testing to be ineffective in suppressing the induction of ventricular tachycardia. Forty-one patients (group B) were not treated with an antiarrhythmic drug. There were no significant differences between the two groups in regards to age, sex, incidence of coronary artery disease, left ventricular function or the type of ICD pulse generator used. During a mean follow-up of 14 months for the entire cohort, 15 patients (46%) in group A and 18 patients (44%) in group B experienced at least one ICD shock. The time to the first appropriate shock (5 +/- 5 months in both groups) and the frequency of ICD shocks (0.3 +/- 0.2/month in group A vs 0.4 +/- 0.5/month in group B) were similar in both groups. The incidence of syncope at the time of ICD discharge was higher in group A than group B patients (31% vs 5%, P less than 0.05). In conclusion, antiarrhythmic drugs that are untested or have failed electropharmacological testing do not appear to reduce the probability of ICD discharge over a short-term (mean 14 months) follow-up in patients who have had only one clinical episode of VT/VF and may increase the risk of syncope during ICD discharge.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clinical efficacy of low energy cardioversion in automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator patients.	The inclusion of low energy cardioversion capability into modern implantable antiarrhythmic devices, although an appealing idea, is nevertheless unproven with regard to its potential benefits. Moreover, since occasional reports have surfaced suggesting that ineffective application of low energy shocks may prejudice subsequent arrhythmia reversion, we examined the effectiveness and risks of this feature in a large series of patients performed as part of a US Food and Drug Administration clinical trial performed under an investigational device exemption. A total of 813 induced monomorphic ventricular tachycardias were studied in 244 patients. We found that many of the arrhythmias could be reverted to sinus rhythm with small amounts of energy. Cardioversion energy was less than or equal to 6 joules (J) for 84 (53.2%) and less than or equal to 14 joules in 105 (66.4%) of the 158 patients tested at implant and subsequently remained unchanged through greater than 4 months follow up. The incidence of noncardioversion, acceleration or both occurred in 12.7%, 5.7%, and 13.1%, respectively on a per patient basis. On a per episode basis, nonconversion occurred in 51 (6.3%) and acceleration in 61 (7.5%) of the 813 inductions. There was no correlation between the occurrence of nonconversions and accelerations. The devices were allowed to recycle in the event the arrhythmia was not reverted. The subsequent shock was almost always effective, and in any event, no patient failed to be reverted by the second 30-J rescue shock. Over the entire follow-up period as long as 17 months, there were 17 deaths. Neither the incidence nor the mode of death was correlated with nonconversion or acceleration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Implantable cardioverter defibrillator implanted by nonthoracotomy approach: initial clinical experience with the redesigned transvenous lead system.	Standard implantation procedure for the implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) has traditionally required a thoracotomy approach. A newly revised nonthoracotomy defibrillator lead system that uses a single transvenous tripolar endocardial lead alone or in combination with a subcutaneous/submuscular patch lead was introduced into clinical trials in September, 1990. Fourteen patients requiring a cardioverter defibrillator for recurrent sustained ventricular tachycardia (eight patients) or aborted sudden cardiac death (six patients) were evaluated for implantation of this lead system. Primary successful lead system implantation was obtained in nine patients. The remaining five patients had unacceptably high defibrillation thresholds (DFTs) for implantation. One of the nine initially successful implants demonstrated unacceptable DFTs and cross-talk inhibition from a permanent pacemaker necessitating removal of the nonthoracotomy lead system and replacement with a conventional lead system via thoracotomy. All remaining primary implanted patients experienced successful conversion of induced ventricular fibrillation prior to hospital discharge. Continued follow-up and greater experience to confirm the durability and efficacy of the nonthoracotomy AICD lead system are needed.
Improved patient surveillance and data acquisition with a third generation implantable cardioverter defibrillator.	Thirteen patients were implanted with the Telectronics 4210 ATP implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) for ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation. This device has multiprogrammable antitachycardia pacing, bradycardia pacing, and shock therapies. In addition, there is extensive data logging and ECG snapshot capability for arrhythmia confirmation and response to therapy. These features permit easy retrieval of all detected and treated events, whatever the eventual outcome. In this study, the data logged at predischarge electrophysiological testing was compared to the data recorded in a standard manner. The bulk of the data, however, was derived from long-term follow-up of spontaneous events over a mean period of 203 days (range 154-257). During this period, a total of 6,193 arrhythmia detections were made: 20 were classified as ventricular fibrillation, and 6,173 as ventricular tachycardia. The vast majority of these (93%) terminated spontaneously without ICD intervention (5,738), underscoring the benefit of a standard second confirmation prior to therapy delivery (noncommitted system). There were 394 arrhythmia episodes treated with antitachycardia pacing; of these a total of 8.3% accelerated to either more rapid ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation (4.3% and 4.0%, respectively). Events were reported in an "episode log" format, listing all arrhythmia detections with time/date annotation; or in a "sense history" format, detailing each episode from start to conclusion. These data demonstrate that this advanced, "tiered" ICD with data recall contributes to better patient management, and permits a more tailored termination prescription for the individual patient.
Variability in survival after in-hospital cardiac arrest depending on the hospital level of care.	Survival after in-hospital cardiac arrest (IHCA) differs considerably between hospitals. This study tries to determine whether this difference is due to patient selection because of the hospital level of care or to effective resuscitation management.
Evaluation of chest barriers for protection against sudden death due to commotio cordis.	Blunt precordial blows triggering ventricular fibrillation (commotio cordis) represent a leading cause of sudden death in young athletes. Attention has focused on the primary prevention of these tragedies with chest barriers. The U.S. Commotio Cordis Registry was accessed to determine the likelihood of sudden death in athletes exposed to precordial blows while wearing chest protectors. Of 182 cases of commotio cordis, 85 (47%) occurred during practice or competition in organized sports. In 32 of these 85 competitive athletes (38%), fatal chest blows occurred despite the presence of potentially protective equipment. Athletes wore standard, commercially available chest barriers made of polymer foam covered by fabric or hard shells, generally perceived as protective from arrhythmic consequences of the blows. These events occurred in 4 sports: hockey (n = 13; 1 goalie), football (n = 10), lacrosse (n = 6; 3 goalies), and baseball (n = 3; all catchers). Scenarios included the failure of the padding to cover the precordium so that blows circumvented the protective barrier (n = 25) or projectiles that struck the chest barrier directly (n = 7). In conclusion, a significant proportion (about 40%) of sudden deaths reported in young competitive athletes due to blunt chest blows (commotio cordis) occur despite the presence of commercially available sports equipment generally perceived as protective.
Improvement in prognosis of dilated cardiomyopathy in the elderly over the past 20 years.	Although dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) had a poor prognosis in the past, recent studies have shown better survival. However, little is known about the improvement of prognosis in the elderly. This study sought to clarify the changes in prognosis in elderly patients with DCM over the past 20 years.
Late results of the left subcostal approach for automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator implantation.	A left subcostal surgical approach was used to implant an automatic implantable cardioverter defibrillator (AICD) in 48 patients with a history of nonfatal cardiac arrest or documented ventricular tachycardia/fibrillation. Electrophysiologic studies before surgery yielded induction of monomorphic or polymorphic ventricular tachycardia in 40 patients, whereas 8 were noninducible. Mean (+/- standard deviation) age was 58 +/- 12 years. Mean ejection fraction was 33 +/- 16%. Thirty patients (63%) had documented coronary artery disease; 14 patients (29%) had previous coronary bypass surgery. The mean intraoperative defibrillation threshold was 13.8 +/- 6.6 J. In 6 patients, an adjunctive right minithoracotomy was used to position 1 patch over the right atrium and thus optimize the defibrillation threshold. Patients with prior exposure to amiodarone and previous coronary bypass surgery had higher defibrillation thresholds at implantation. Two perioperative deaths occurred. There were no infections. Long-term follow-up yielded a 1- and 5-year survival of 0.88 and 0.58, respectively, and a freedom from sudden cardiac death of 1.0 and 0.97, respectively. The nonthoracotomy, left subcostal surgical approach is safe and effective, provides adequate defibrillation thresholds in most patients, and yields long-term survival comparable to other implantation techniques.
What is the best predictor of spontaneous ventricular tachycardia and sudden death after myocardial infarction?	Death during the first year after myocardial infarction is most commonly due to spontaneous ventricular tachycardia (VT) or fibrillation (VF). The purpose of this study was to compare, in a single cohort of patients, the values of inducible VT, delayed ventricular activation, low left ventricular ejection fraction, high-grade ventricular ectopy, and ST segment displacement on exercise in predicting electrical events (witnessed instantaneous death and spontaneous VT or VF) during the first year after myocardial infarction.
Effect of previous statin use on the incidence of sustained ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome.	Recent studies suggest that statins have anti-arrhythmic effects. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of statins on sustained ventricular tachycardia or ventricular fibrillation (S-VT or VF) in patients presenting with acute coronary syndrome (ACS).
Ventricular tachyarrhythmias after cardiac arrest in public versus at home.	The incidence of ventricular fibrillation or pulseless ventricular tachycardia as the first recorded rhythm after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest has unexpectedly declined. The success of bystander-deployed automated external defibrillators (AEDs) in public settings suggests that this may be the more common initial rhythm when out-of-hospital cardiac arrest occurs in public. We conducted a study to determine whether the location of the arrest, the type of arrhythmia, and the probability of survival are associated.
Incidence, causes, and outcomes of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in children. A comprehensive, prospective, population-based study in the Netherlands.	This study sought to determine comprehensively the incidence of pediatric out-of-hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) and its contribution to total pediatric mortality, the causes of pediatric OHCA, and the outcome of resuscitation of pediatric OHCA patients.
Practical questions around individual with a pacemaker or an implantable cardioverter defibrillator]	An individual with a pacemaker can ask his GP for information about potential problems associated with the device. Should a pacemaker continue to be used by end-of-life patients? Should a pacemaker be stopped in a limited care situation? What precautions should be taken when treating a patient with a pacemaker? Pacemakers and implantable defibrillators are sensitive to electromagnetic interference (EMI). Medically, MRIs are theoretically contraindicated, even though examinations could be performed without a major problem, and special precautions should be taken when using an electrosurgical cutter or radiotherapy. In case of death, a doctor or embalmer must remove the patient's pacemaker due to its risk of explosion during cremation. Doctors who sign cremation forms have a legal obligation to provide such information. It may affect an employee's ability to work. Are there some professions that are not well suited for individuals with a pacemaker?
Early repolarization is an independent predictor of occurrences of ventricular fibrillation in the very early phase of acute myocardial infarction.	Recent evidence has linked early repolarization (ER) to idiopathic ventricular fibrillation (VF) in patients without structural heart disease. However, no studies have clarified whether or not there is an association between ER and the VF occurrences after the onset of an acute myocardial infarction (AMI).
Incidence of ventricular arrhythmia and associated patient outcomes in hospitalized acute coronary syndrome patients in Saudi  Arabia: findings from the registry of the Saudi Project for Assessment of Acute Coronary Syndrome (SPACE).	Mortality in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients with ventricular arrhythmia (VA) has been shown to be higher than those without VA. However, there is a paucity of data on VA among ACS patients in the Middle Eastern countries.
Different prognostic value of functional right ventricular parameters in arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia.	The value of standard 2-dimensional transthoracic echocardiographic parameters for risk stratification in patients with arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy/dysplasia (ARVC/D) is controversial.
Ventricular fibrillation and its recurrence in early acute myocardial infarction.	At the initial arrest in 73 consecutive survivors of primary ventricular fibrillation who were seen within 1 h of myocardial infarction, 67% had much less than 2 episodes of ventricular fibrillation and 57% required much less than 2 shocks: only 7% required greater than 10 shocks to correct ventricular fibrillation. 12 (16%) of the 73 had recurrent ventricular fibrillation. The incidence of recurrent ventricular fibrillation, number of recurrences, and interval from the initial episode to recurrent ventricular fibrillation were similar whether the initial episode occurred within the first hour of the onset of symptoms or later. Age, sex, history of previous infarction, site of infarction, adequacy of initial resuscitation, place of arrest, time from onset of symptoms to initial arrest, and delay before initial attempted defibrillation were not significantly related to the recurrence of ventricular fibrillation. The incidence of recurrent ventricular fibrillation among patients seen within 1 h of the onset of symptoms was not greater than among comparable patients seen later.
Predictors of outcome in patients with implantable transvenous cardioverter defibrillators.	The identification of patients who benefit most from implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) therapy is of great interest. To find out if clinical variables, the signal-averaged electrocardiogram, and electrophysiologic study predict occurrence of appropriate ICD discharges and death, we followed-up on 76 patients after implantation of a transvenous ICD. During a mean follow-up period of 18.2 +/- 6.4 months, 29 patients (38.6%) experienced at least one appropriate episode. When these patients were compared with those who had either no therapy or inappropriate episodes, three variables were found to be significant in the identification of patients who experienced appropriate discharges: (1) The mean ejection fraction of patients who received appropriate discharges was 35.4% +/- 13.5% versus 45.1% +/- 15.3% in the other group (p < 0.05); (2) patients with appropriate therapy had sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia that was more likely to be inducible (75.9% vs 21.2%, p < 0.01); and (3) in patients with appropriate therapy ventricular fibrillation was less likely to be inducible (10.3% vs 25.5%, p < 0.05). The signal-averaged electrocardiograms were more often abnormal, but the differences were not significant. The total mortality rate in our patient group was 7.8%, with nonsudden cardiac death in four patients, noncardiac death in one patient, and sudden death in one patient. In our patient group a lower ejection fraction and inducible sustained monomorphic ventricular tachycardia were predictors of future ICD discharge after implantation. The survival rate after transvenous ICD implantation is excellent; a longer follow-up period is necessary to further define predictors of total mortality rate.
Clinical efficacy of shock waveforms and lead configurations for defibrillation.	A randomized, prospective comparison of the defibrillation efficacy of various shock waveforms and nonthoracotomy lead configurations was performed in five distinct patient groups undergoing implantation of a cardioverter defibrillator. In the first group using a bidirectional lead configuration, there was no significant difference in the mean defibrillation threshold (DFT) between simultaneous and sequential monophasic shocks (17.8 +/- 5.8 joules versus 17.3 +/- 2.7 joules). In the second group using a bidirectional lead configuration, the mean DFT was 21.9 +/- 7.3 joules with monophasic shocks and 14.9 +/- 5.0 joules with biphasic shocks (p < 0.001). In the third group using a unidirectional lead configuration, the mean DFT was significantly higher (p < 0.001) with monophasic shocks (22.1 +/- 4.2 joules) compared with biphasic shocks (15.0 +/- 5.4 joules). In the fourth group, an intraindividual comparison with monophasic shock waveforms showed no significant differences in DFT using either a bidirectional (21.3 +/- 5.8 joules) or a unidirectional (21.7 +/- 2.6 joules) lead configuration. In the fifth group, a simplified unipolar transvenous defibrillation lead system ("active can") demonstrated significant lower DFTs (9.7 +/- 3.8 joules) compared with a standardized unidirectional lead configuration (18.0 +/- 6.8 joules). It is concluded that: (1) there seems to be no significant difference in the DFT between simultaneous and sequential monophasic shocks; (2) biphasic waveforms require significantly less energy for defibrillation than their corresponding monophasic waveforms; and (3) the unipolar single-electrode defibrillation system is easy to implant and provides DFTs at energies comparable with epicardial lead systems.
Atrial fibrillation in acute myocardial infarction: a prospective study based on data from a consecutive series of patients admitted to the coronary care unit.	Atrial fibrillation (AF) is a common and much-studied arrhythmia in patients with acute myocardial infarction (MI). However, documentation of its occurrence in temporal association with MI has been often neglected in the literature; also, its frequent occurrence with mere advanced age, or in the setting of various cardiac conditions or complications, has prevented the definition of an exact role for AF as a marker or determinant of outcome in patients with MI. The purpose of this study was to evaluate prospectively the frequency of AF (present or occurring subsequently) in a consecutive series of patients with MI admitted to the Coronary Care Unit, and to explore for variables associated with this arrhythmia; the role of AF in determining major clinical outcomes of the patients was also examined. A large data base of baseline, clinical, laboratory, and patient outcome variables was generated and continuously updated to examine correlates of AF and its possible role in determining prognosis. AF was found in 72 of 517 patients, of whom 58 experienced this arrhythmia anew. Univariate analyses detected a positive association of AF with age, pulmonary congestion, left ventricular hypertrophy, high admission Killip class, and a large array of complications including in-hospital mortality. Multivariate analyses showed, however, that AF correlated weakly with age and strongly with left ventricular hypertrophy and occurrence of ventricular tachycardia, but that it was not a determinant of ventricular fibrillation or in-hospital mortality.
Out-of-hospital cardiac arrests in Amsterdam and its surrounding areas: results from the Amsterdam resuscitation study (ARREST) in 'Utstein' style.	The purpose of this study was to describe the chain of survival in Amsterdam and its surroundings and to suggest areas for improvement. To ensure accurate data, collection was made by research personnel during the resuscitation, according to the Utstein recommendations. Between June 1, 1995 and August 1, 1997 all consecutive cardiac arrests were registered. Patient characteristics, resuscitation characteristics and time intervals were analyzed in relation to survival. From the 1046 arrests with a cardiac etiology and where resuscitation was attempted, 918 cases were not witnessed by EMS personnel. The analysis focussed on these 918 patients of whom 686 (75%) died during resuscitation, 148 (16%) died during hospital admission and 84 patients (9%) survived to hospital discharge. Patient and resuscitation characteristics associated with survival were: age, VF as initial rhythm, witnessed arrest and bystander CPR. EMS arrival time was significantly shorter for survivors (median 9 min) compared to non-survivors (median 11 min). In 151 cases the police was also alerted and arrived 5 min (median) earlier than EMS personnel. Using the OPC/CPC good functional health was observed in 50% of the survivors and moderate performance in 29%. All links in the chain of survival must be strengthened, but equipping the police with semi-automatic defibrillators may be the most useful intervention to improve survival.
Treatment of out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in Ljubljana: outcome report according to the 'Utstein' style.	We investigated survival of patients with out-of-hospital cardiac arrest in Ljubljana according to the 'Utstein' style. Ljubljana consists of urban, suburban and semi-rural communities which encompass an area of 1615 km2 with 397306 residents. The area is served by a single response emergency medical system and local family practitioners. Between January 1, 1995 and December 31, 1997 cardiac arrest was confirmed in 966 patients. Cardiopulmonary resuscitation was attempted in 454 patients (47%). Collapse of presumed cardiac etiology (337 patients) was either bystander-witnessed (89%), un-witnessed (9%) or EMS personnel-witnessed (2%). Asystole was documented in 55%, ventricular fibrillation or tachycardia in 36% and other non-perfusing rhythms in 9% of these patients. Lay-bystander basic life support was performed in 19%. Nineteen patients (5.6%) survived to hospital discharge and 12 of them were independent in daily life. The survival of subgroups with bystanders-witnessed collapse and bystanders-witnessed ventricular fibrillation was 6.4 and 13%, respectively. Collapse of non-cardiac etiology (117 patients) was preceded by either respiratory failure (41), politrauma (22), circulatory shock (19), cerebrovascular incident (ten), intoxication (nine), strangulation (seven), electrocution (five) or drowning (four patients). Only five patients (4.2%) survived to hospital discharge. Hospital treatment of patients after successful initial cardiopulmonary resuscitation was associated with high mortality and required considerable resources.
