Fetal complication after external cephalic version at term: case report and literature review.	We report a case of fetal distress following external cephalic version at term, which resulted in delivery by emergency cesarean section of an anemic, acidemic infant. The characteristics of the fetal heart rate tracing, the clinical findings, and a positive Kleihauer-Betke test after delivery suggest that fetomaternal hemorrhage or placental abruption was the most likely cause of the fetal distress. We review the incidence of the reported fetal complications after external version.
Levels of cord blood thyroid stimulating hormone after external cephalic version.	To investigate the relationship between breech presentation, external cephalic version and levels of cord blood thyroid stimulating hormone.
Alternative methods instead of external cephalic version in the event of breech presentation. Review of the literature]	Fetal breech presentation at term is more and more treated by a planned cesarean section. Considering the increased maternal morbidity and mortality in relation to abdominal delivery versus vaginal birth, natural and innocuous methods have been proposed for the promotion of a spontaneous fetal cephalic version during the last two Months of pregnancy. In order to stimulate fetal motility many techniques have been described, either advising postural methods (passive bridge, Indian version, knee-chest position) or using acupuncture (stimulation of the fifth toe and auricular points). Other techniques like chiropractic manipulations or hypnosis have also been tried. Unfortunately, most publications are retrospective and methodologically inaccurate, but it seems that their results may be favorably compared with that of the external cephalic version, a much more complex procedure, which is potentially dangerous and certainly time consuming and expensive. The only randomized controlled trial with a proven efficacy concerns moxibustion (burning herbs to stimulate the acupoint BL 67 or Zhiyin, located beside the outer corner of the fifth toenail).
The complications of external cephalic version: results from 805 consecutive attempts.	Most breech babies at term are now delivered by caesarean section. Although external cephalic version reduces the number of term breech presentations, its uptake has not been as wide as is recommended by professional bodies. This may be because of fears over safety. Pooled safety data do exist, largely from case series. However, the possibility of reporting and publication biases in such studies maybe preventing both women and obstetricians from being adequately reassured. In this series of 805 consecutive version attempts, we report an extremely low complication rate and 0.5% risk of emergency caesarean section after the procedure.
External cephalic version in case of persisting breech presentation at term: motivations and women's experience of the intervention]	To evaluate the efficacy and acceptability of external cephalic version (ECV).
Clinical hypnosis before external cephalic version.	Three to four percent of full-term singleton pregnancies present themselves as breech deliveries. External cephalic version (ECV) is a procedure to try to turn a breech fetus to cephalic by externally maneuvering the fetus through the maternal abdomen. This trial examines a clinical hypnosis intervention against standard medical care of women before ECV. A total of 78 women, who received a hypnosis intervention prior to ECV, had a 41.6% (n = 32) successful ECV, whereas the control group of 122, who had similar baseline characteristics, had a 27.3% (n = 33) successful ECV procedure (p < 0.05). This trial found that a relaxation technique with the help of clinical hypnosis was successful at increasing the likelihood of a successful ECV procedure.
