Bladder defense molecules, urothelial differentiation, urinary biomarkers, and interstitial cystitis.	It has long been recognized that interstitial cystitis (IC) is a disease of the urothelium. In this article, we review the results of published studies and present new data concerning the precise role of the bladder epithelium in IC. We discuss bladder defenses against both the penetration of urinary solutes and bacterial adherence, and we present new information about the proteoglycans that are present on the normal bladder. Previously published results and new data presented here support the conclusion that IC involves an aberrant differentiation program in the bladder urothelium that leads to altered synthesis of several proteoglycans, cell adhesion and tight junction proteins, and bacterial defense molecules such as GP51. These findings lend support to the rationale for glycosaminoglycan replacement therapy for the treatment of patients with IC.
Immunohistochemical study of specialized nail mesenchyme containing onychofibroblasts in transverse sections of the nail unit.	In the frozen longitudinal section of the nail unit, CD10 was previously found in nail mesenchymal cells beneath nail matrix, and we proposed calling the nail mesenchymal cells onychofibroblasts. In this study, to further characterize nail mesenchyme containing onychofibroblasts, we examined the expression of several mesenchymal markers immunohistochemically in transverse paraffin sections of the nail unit. CD10 was strongly expressed in the nail mesenchyme containing onychofibroblasts beneath the nail matrix. However, CD10 was not observed in dermal fibroblasts and surrounding extracellular matrix of the lateral nail fold (LNF), except around blood vessels and eccrine structures. In addition, versican was expressed diffusely in the nail mesenchyme containing onychofibroblasts in contrast to the dermis of LNF. Fibrillin, which is a major component of elastic fiber in the dermis, was expressed very weakly on the nail mesenchyme below the nail matrix but was expressed strongly in the dermis of LNF. These findings support the existence of specialized nail mesenchyme containing onychofibroblasts that is distinguished from the dermis of LNF.
