Mandibular movements in response to electrical stimulation of superficial and deep parts of the human masseter muscle at different jaw positions.	Anatomical and electromyographical evidence suggests a compartmentalized function of the human jaw-closing muscles during both static and dynamic motor tasks. However, the voluntary nature of these tasks hampers unequivocal interpretation of this evidence, because it is impossible to activate voluntarily a single part of a muscle exclusively. Activation of discrete, localized regions can be accomplished with electrical stimulation. A previous study confirmed a functional subdivision of the temporalis muscle into at least three parts. Here, differences in the direction of the lower incisal-point (IP) movement in response to electrical stimulation of four different parts of the masseter muscle were examined in five healthy men. The deep masseter muscle and the anterior, middle, and posterior parts of the superficial masseter muscle were stimulated with monopolar wire electrodes in four different jaw positions (resting position; 50% maximum mouth opening; and 10-mm right and left lateral excursions, both with respect to resting position). Electrode-insertion depth was measured from magnetic resonance images. Movement responses to stimulation were recorded with the OKAS-3D jaw-movement analysis system. The variation in the direction of the IP movement in response to stimulation of parts of the masseter was partly explained by the effects of stimulus location and jaw position. The response to stimulation of the deep masseter was mainly laterovertically directed, whereas the response to stimulation of each of the superficial parts had a mainly anterovertical direction, the responses being most pronounced with the mandible in its resting position. These results provide further evidence for a functional subdivision of the masseter into a superficial part and a deep part, but not for a further subdivision of the superficial part into an anterior, middle, and posterior part.
Comparison of treatment outcomes with banded and bonded RPE appliances.	The purpose of this retrospective study was to compare the treatment outcomes with a banded (n = 38) versus a bonded (n = 55) rapid palatal expansion appliance followed by edgewise orthodontics. Both lateral cephalometric radiographs and orthodontic study casts were evaluated at pretreatment and posttreatment time periods. Overall, the banded rapid palatal expansion group had more vertical change than the bonded group. However, most of these changes were less than 1 degrees or 1 mm and may be considered clinically insignificant. This study could not establish superiority of one type of rapid palatal expansion technique over another.
The effect of first premolar extraction on vertical dimension.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the vertical changes occurring in Class I patients treated orthodontically with first premolar extraction and to compare these changes with those occurring in Class I patients treated orthodontically without extractions. Records of 40 Class I nonextraction cases (24 girls, 16 boys) and 40 Class I maxillary and mandibular first premolar extraction cases (23 girls, 17 boys) were obtained. The pretreatment and posttreatment cephalograms were digitized, and 6 linear and 8 angular cephalometric measurements were selected to evaluate vertical changes. Evaluation of the treatment results of the extraction and nonextraction cases showed that the vertical changes occurring after the extraction of maxillary and mandibular first premolars were not different than those occurring in the nonextraction cases.
Nonsurgical correction of a class II malocclusion with a vertical growth tendency.	Malocclusion, with a superimposed vertical growth tendency, is often difficult to treat without a combined surgical orthodontic approach. Certain situations, however, may preclude surgery as a treatment option. The following case report demonstrates the use of orthodontic mechanotherapy alone in successfully treating a patient that exhibited a Class II Division I malocclusion with a high mandibular plane angle and vertical growth tendency.
Fifteen-year reproducibility of natural head posture: A longitudinal study.	Natural head posture continues to be widely used as the logical reference position for the evaluation of craniofacial morphology. The basic underlying premise is that the long-term clinical reproducibility (variability) of natural head posture is significantly less than the variability of conventional reference planes with respect to the vertical. This study reports the 15-year longitudinal reproducibility of natural head posture. Twenty Chinese adults in Hong Kong, who had initial natural head posture radiographs at age 12 years, were followed up and had repeated cephalograms after 15 years. The method error (reproducibility) after 15 years was 2.2 degrees, which compared favorably with the 5-year reproducibility (method error = 3.0 degrees ) and the 5 to 10 minutes reproducibility (method error = 1.9 degrees ). The individual variability of natural head posture reproducibility increased slightly over time. After 15 years the variance of natural head posture (4.8 degrees [= 2.2(2)]) remains significantly less than the variance of intracranial reference planes to the vertical (25 degrees to 36 degrees ). Cephalometric analyses based on natural head posture therefore remain valid over time.
Condylar positional changes after mandibular advancement surgery with rigid internal fixation.	The purpose of this retrospective investigation was to describe condylar positional changes in patients after mandibular advancement surgery. By superimposing on clearly identifiable cephalometric landmarks (ie, mandibular symphysis and rigid fixation screws), condylar positional changes from immediately after surgery to orthodontic appliance removal were extrapolated. Although the mandibular symphysis generally moved in either an anterior or posterior direction after surgery, condylar movements were exclusively in an upward vertical direction. Correlations were found between several measured variables, including a tendency for increased superior postsurgical movement of the condyles with increasing magnitudes of surgical advancement of the mandible. This long-term instability of skeletal relationships may be caused by a wide variety of interacting factors and events.
Cephalometric differentiation between vertical and horizontal malocclusions in 122 Europeans using the Denture Frame Analysis and standard measurements. Differentiation between vertical and horizontal malocclusion.	This study evaluated the ability of some cephalometric measurements to differentiate between horizontal and vertical malocclusions and normal occlusion. Based upon the Angle classification and the vertical incisor overbite, 122 randomly selected subjects were assigned to 3 horizontal and 3 vertical groups: neutrocclusion, distocclusion, mesiocclusion as well as open bite, normal overbite, and deep bite. Evaluation of the lateral cephalograms was based on Denture Frame Analysis and cephalometric standard measurements (SNA, SNB, ANB, Wits appraisal, Björk polygon, overbite depth indicator, incisor inclination, incisor protrusion, facial height ratio). The statistical evaluation assessed the ability of the measurements to show significant differences between the individual horizontal and vertical groups. Using Denture Frame Analysis, all vertical groups could be differentiated by the occlusomandibular angle (OP-MP) and all horizontal groups by the angle between the A-B plane and the mandibular plane as well as by the inclination of the upper incisors to the A-B plane with statistical significance (p < 0.05). Among the standard measurements, the Wits appraisal was the only one to show differences between all horizontal groups with statistical significance. None of the standard measurements could fully differentiate the vertical groups. The above measurements from the Denture Frame Analysis distinguished the types of malocclusion in anteroposterior and vertical direction including significant distinction between the neutrocclusion group and the malocclusion groups. Therefore a cephalometric classification was feasible in terms of hyper- and hypodivergence as well as of a mesial or distal dentofacial relationship.
Orthodontics and orthognathic surgery in the combined treatment of an excessively "gummy smile".	This report highlights the benefits that can be achieved with the combined orthodontic and orthognathic surgical approach where the presenting malocclusion is related primarily to an underlying skeletal malrelationship. The patient experienced a dramatic improvement in her facial form and occlusion, and a reduction of her excessively "gummy smile".
Long-term effect of the chincap on hard and soft tissues.	The short- and long-term effects of the chincap used in combination with a removable appliance to procline upper incisors were analysed cephalometrically in 23 patients with Class III malocclusions. The overall changes were compared with growth changes in a closely matched control sample of untreated Class III patients. There was no evidence that the chincap retarded growth of the mandible. During treatment, there was an increase in mandibular length and facial height. The lower incisors retroclined and the upper incisors proclined. The incisor relationship was corrected. Soft tissue changes included an increase in nasolabial angle and improvement in soft-tissue profile, including the nose. Skeletal post-treatment changes included further mandibular growth associated with an increase in angle SNB and Wits measurement. Facial height also increased significantly. The Class I overjet was maintained, although slightly diminished. The soft tissue nose, upper and lower lip, and chin moved anteriorly, and the nasal tip and chin moved inferiorly. At the end of the study period there were no significant skeletal or soft tissue differences between the treated and control groups. The only significant contrasts were in the overjet and the overbite. Chincap therapy combined with an upper removable appliance to procline the upper incisors is effective in producing long-term correction of the incisor relationship by retroclination of lower incisors, proclination of upper incisors, and redirection of mandibular growth in a downward direction. The direction of growth at the chin is maintained subsequent to treatment, as are the changes in incisor inclination, although in diminished form. There are corresponding improvements in the soft tissue profile.
Dentocraniofacial morphology of 12 Japanese subjects with unilateral cleft lip and palate with a severe Class III malocclusion: a cephalometric study at the pretreatment stage of surgical orthodontic treatment.	The present study clarifies the dentocraniofacial morphology of patients with cleft lip and palate (CLP) with severe Class III malocclusion prior to surgical orthodontic treatment.
Preprosthetic vertical distraction osteogenesis of the mandible using an L-shaped osteotomy and titanium membranes for guided bone regeneration.	Vertical osteodistraction is a new alternative method for alveolar ridge augmentation of the mandible. The purpose of this article is describe a technique using an L-shaped osteotomy and titanium membranes for guided bone regeneration (GBR) in the distraction gap.
A newer approach in positioning teeth for dental prosthetics using lateral cephalometric, trans-cranial radiographs, and the Denar-Witzig articulator: a case of hypodontia in an adolescent patient.	Traditionally in full denture prosthetics, anterior teeth are set on the models, independent of the effects on the face. More enlightened dentists, will then adjust the wax-up for speech, and some effects on the lips. Consideration is infrequently given to restoring the face by repositioning the teeth and mandible. Rarely is thought given to the effects of occlusion on the posture of the body. This report uses several techniques to restore facial esthetics and body posture. The techniques used include a cephalometric radiograph, transcranial radiographs, an articulator that has an adjustable "TMJ" (Denar-Witzig), and Symmetrigraf Posture Chart. This clinical report describes a newer approach in the positioning of maxillary anterior teeth for a patient with hypodontia and nail dysplasia syndrome, and the overall effect of this approach on the face and posture of the patient. Conventionally the precise form of the maxillary wax rim is fabricated with considerable variation from technician to another, based on the technicians training. This variation is evident on the position of the labial aspect of the rim horizontally and vertically. The wax rim is then further adjusted chair side based on subjective evaluation of the face. The maxillary anterior teeth position is established without considering that the lip position is not yet accustomed to the wax rim.
Penetration of the mandibular condyle into the middle cranial fossa: report of a case in a 6-year-old girl.	Reported cases of dislocation of the mandibular condyle into the middle cranial fossa are rare. Treatment of this injury should be individualized and should take in account the age of the patient, growth potential, the degree of glenoid fossa destruction, the risk of ankylosis and the risk of further cranial injury. In children, functional therapy is aimed at helping the restoration of posterior facial height, good occlusal relations and function. Long-term follow-up is mandatory. Surgery may be required later to correct asymmetrical growth or developing ankylosis. This article describes a case of condylar penetration into the middle cranial fossa in a six-year-old child and the treatment performed to minimize consequences on occlusion and facial development.
Cephalometric norms for Bunt and Brahmin children of Dakshina Kannada based on McNamara's analysis.	Computerised cephalometrics, the key technique in measuring skeletal and dental relationship was used in order to establish norms for Bunt and Brahmin children of Dakshina Kannada using McNamara's analysis. A new landmark App-Bpp distance was also evaluated and taken as a norm for both Bunt and Brahmin children.
Clinical treatment of ectodermal dysplasia: a case report.	Ectodermal dysplasia is both physically and emotionally devastating to patients. With proper restorative intervention, the quality of life can be improved for patients with ectodermal dysplasia. This case report outlines a method of restoring function and esthetics for a 14-year-old boy with ectodermal dysplasia. It is important that these patients be treated at an early age to aid in their social interactions.
Management of a Class II deep bite malocclusion with combined straightwire appliance and bioprogressive therapy.	Development of straightwire appliances and improvement in archwire technology have simplified fixed appliance therapy in orthodontics. Although straightwire appliances are routinely used to treat most malocclusions, there are inherent limitations and it is necessary to look at the needs of each individual case rather than to simply proceed through a "cookbook" series of archwires to achieve a desired result. The Bioprogressive Therapy, although biomechanically complex, offers several advantages that can be integrated with the straightwire appliances to overcome the latter's shortcomings. This article illustrates the use of simplified Bioprogressive mechanics by means of utility arch in the treatment of a Class II deep bite malocclusion with high anchorage requirement.
Surface anatomy of the face in Down's syndrome: anthropometric proportion indices in the craniofacial regions.	The objective of the study was to identify the proportions closest to normal and those indicating mild-to-moderate and severe degrees of disproportion. Eight proportion indices were analyzed in five craniofacial regions of 125 Down's syndrome patients, based on a total of 985 data points. More than two thirds of the patients fell within the normal range, although more than one quarter were abnormal (disproportionate). All statistical summaries were based on z-scores (adjusting for age and sex differences), converted into descriptive anthropometric categories to yield a simplified frequency distribution for each proportion index. Normal proportions were harmonious in 55.9% of patients. Disproportions were mild to moderate in 66.4%, severe in 33.6%. The highest frequency of harmony was found in the head (70.2%), the lowest in the orbits (40.8%). The highest percentage of mild-moderate disproportion was found in the face (79.3%). The highest percentage of severe disproportions was recorded in the intercanthal index of the orbits (44.7%) and the smallest frequency in the face (20.7%). In the five craniofacial regions among the normal proportions, harmonies were more frequent than disharmonies. Among the disproportions, the percentage of mild-moderate ones was greater than those of severe degree.
Comparison of physiologic methods of determination of occlusal vertical dimension in edentulous persons]	Occlusal vertical dimension (OVD) is the distance of the mandible from the maxilla determined by the length and position of teeth in central occlusion. In edentulous mouth OVD is not preserved. Tooth loss causes the loss of OVD, so that it must be determined in the appropriate way. In clinical practice, several methods and indicators are used, in making of full dentures that represents a dilemma for dentist practitian which methods to use for the establishment of appropriate OVD. The aim of this investigation was to compare the obtained results in application of physiological methods of phonation, deglutition and electromyography that were used for the determination of OVD. Investigation comprised 18 edentulous patients, of skeletal class I by Angle with healthy stomatognathic system. Estimation of results value of the applied methods was done electromyographically. Upon the obtained results of the investigation, it was concluded that the optimal accuracy was obtained by the method of electromyography, which was also confirmed by the measured OVD that was in average higher for 1.50-2.00 mm compared to OVD determined by the methods of phonation and deglutition. In the clinical practice, where possible, we recommend the method of electromyography in determination of OVD in edentulous patients, and subsequently the method of phonation and method of deglutition, respectively.
Prosthodontic treatment of the edentulous adult cleft palate patient.	Clefts of the upper lip and plate are relatively common, yet dental treatment of these patients is still very poor and many grow up suffering dental neglect. Dental practitioners should become involved in the treatment team as dental needs are present from birth to death. Adult cleft patients often need tooth replacement with obturation of any residual clefts. They are best treated with tooth-supported removable appliances including partial and complete overdentures, thus preservation of their natural dentition is desirable. Edentulous cleft palate patients present with restorative difficulties due to their compromised maxillary arches as well as the presence of scar tissue in their palates and lips. An outline of these complications and guidelines for their treatment is illustrated in the form of three case reports from members of one family all presenting with varying cleft lip and palate defects. This article highlights the need for dental students to be exposed to dentally compromised patients so that they will feel confident enough to treat them in private practice.
Analysis of the condyle/fossa relationship before and after prosthetic rehabilitation with maxillary complete denture and mandibular removable partial denture.	The influence of the loss of posterior teeth on the condylar position and on temporomandibular disorders (TMDs) remains a controversial issue.
An involvement of trigeminal mesencephalic neurons in regulation of occlusal vertical dimension in the guinea pig.	Although the occlusal vertical dimension (OVD) is strictly controlled, the neuronal mechanism of its regulation is still unclear. We hypothesize that neurons in the trigeminal mesencephalic nucleus (MesV) play an important role in the regulation of the OVD, because the MesV receives the projection from jaw-closing muscle spindles and periodontal mechanoreceptors. We measured the temporal OVD change in the guinea pig to study the effects of MesV lesions on the OVD. OVD-raised animals without MesV lesions showed a rapid OVD decrease to the same level as that in naïve controls, followed by an OVD increase after the OVD-raising appliance was removed. In contrast, OVD-raised animals with MesV lesions showed only a slight decrease in the OVD for 15 days after removal of the appliance, and then the OVD increased. The time-course of OVD development in normal-bite animals with MesV lesions was similar to that of naïve controls. These results suggest that MesV neurons are involved in OVD regulation.
Comparative evaluation of a new removable Jasper Jumper functional appliance vs an activator-headgear combination.	The aim of this study was to comparatively evaluate the effects of an activator-headgear (HG) combination to a Jasper Jumper (JJ) plus occipital HG, which was incorporated into removable upper and lower plates. The study group consisted of 60 subjects with mandibular deficiency and a vertical growth pattern. Of these, 20 were treated with JJ appliance-HG incorporated to removable upper and lower plates, 20 were treated with an activator-HG combination. Another 20 subjects who refused orthodontic treatment served as controls. Pre- and postreatment lateral cephalograms and hand-wrist films were gathered for all 60 subjects. Lateral cephalograms were manually traced before being transferred to RMO JOE software by a digitizer. Measurements that are not included in the software were measured manually. Thirty-five dental and skeletal parameters were used in the study. The collected data were subjected to statistical analysis using SPSS packet software. Wilcoxon paired t-test was used for intragroup comparisons. Differences between groups were evaluated by analysis of variance and Bonferroni tests. Results suggest that ANB angle was decreased significantly in both treatment groups compared with the controls. Increase in total facial height was greater in the activator group than in the JJ group. Vertical growth inhibition of lower incisors was greater in the JJ group. The activator-HG appliance was more effective on the mandible, whereas the JJ appliance was mainly active on the maxilla. Thus, ideal cases for JJ-splinted appliance should be high-angle cases, particularly with maxillary excess and some mandibular deficiency.
A cephalometric comparison of black open-bite subjects and black normals.	Orthodontic surveys of the adolescent and adult population of the United States have shown that the incidence of anterior open bite is three to four times higher in blacks than in whites. A cephalometric comparison of black subjects with and without an open bite was used to identify skeletal and dental differences between the two groups. Statistically significant differences were found in the vertical skeletal dimensions and incisor proclination. The open-bite group had a significantly longer anterior lower facial height and total facial height. The mandibular plane was rotated down relative to the cranial base and Frankfort plane and gonial angle was increased in the open-bite sample. There were small differences between the open bite and non-open-bite groups in the cranial base angle and the overbite depth indicator of Kim. No significant differences were found in the skeletal anteroposterior dimensions or dental vertical development. The vertical skeletal pattern and the greater degree of dental proclination differentiated black patients with an anterior open bite from those without.
Making occlusion work: 2. Practical considerations.	In the first of these two articles, occlusal terminology, techniques for examining the occlusion, articulators and interocclusal records were discussed. Here the authors consider some of the practical applications.
Orofacial analysis on the Adriatic islands: an epidemiological study of malocclusions on Hvar Island.	The prevalence of malocclusion was studied on the Hvar island, Croatia. This island is characterized by high rates of endogamy, inbreeding and reproductive isolation. The sample for this study comprised 224 children, 126 males and 98 females from all schools on the island of Hvar (20.2 per cent of the total public school population). The sample was selected according to age, sex distribution, and demographic characteristics. The Angle Classes, overjet, overbite, crowding, spacing, and the type of anterior bite were examined. Class I buccal relationship was found in 47.3 per cent of the subjects, Class II in 45.1 per cent, and Class III in 5.4 per cent. Normal overjet was the most frequent finding (69.9 per cent). Normal overbite was seen in 42.5 per cent, deep in 49.1 per cent, and very deep in 2.7 per cent of the cases. Open bite was diagnosed in seven subjects (3.1 per cent) and edge-to-edge bite in six (2.7 per cent). The frequency of crowding was 57.1 per cent, normal relationships were observed in 34.9 per cent, and spacing in 8 per cent. The results of this investigation showed that the inhabitants of Hvar, who are characterized by a high rate of inbreeding and traditional diet, have more Class II malocclusions, deep bites, and midline shifts than the general Croatian population but not higher than other modern urbanized groups. Since the lack of chewing stress in this population cannot be considered as the main explanation for the above phenomenon, the genetic influence on the development of these occlusal traits in the inbred population of Hvar requires further investigation.
Occlusion-based treatment planning for complex dental restorations: Part 1.	Successful treatment of patients requiring complex dental restoration requires a comprehensive evaluation of their existing occlusion. Using a systematic and ordered sequence for relating this occlusion to a physiologic standard greatly facilitates the treatment planning process of reconstruction. Reconstructing the occlusion in this same orderly sequence then significantly enhances the control and predictability of the procedures performed by all practitioners involved in management of the case. Six closely inter-related elements of an occlusion must be evaluated and frequently modified in treatment Part 1 of this article will discuss two elements of the occlusion, in the order of their evaluation--centric relation position of the mandible and vertical dimension of occlusion.
Restoring soft and hard dental tissues using a removable implant prosthesis with digital imaging for optimum dental esthetics: a clinical report.	Currently, most dental implants are placed in the esthetic zone with a delayed surgical protocol. This delay can result in loss of both soft and hard oral tissues following the healing period, necessitating guided tissue regeneration, distraction osteogenesis, or bone expansion and grafting procedures either prior to or at the time of implant placement. If a delayed placement protocol is used, or if grafting procedures are ineffectual, the prosthetic phase of implant dentistry must restore the missing structures artistically and functionally to integrate with the patient's existing dentition. This article presents the option of using a removable implant prosthesis for an esthetic anterior restoration of soft and hard tissues. A computer-assisted camera was used to record speaking, smiling, and active facial positions, with digital imaging to achieve realism for tooth position during the prosthetic phase. The captured patient images with the esthetic setups were transmitted by e-mail for direct viewing by both dentist and dental technician prior to case completion. These images were viewed as reference files during laboratory construction of the prosthesis to achieve the desired esthetic and functional results.
A useful solution to a space problem--a striking plate.	The natural dentition can be of fundamental importance to the prognosis of a partial denture when the teeth are within the same arch as the prosthesis. However, when the natural teeth oppose the edentulous area, a number of problems can present. One such problem can be the decrease of space for standard denture components. Solutions to this problem may involve increasing the vertical dimension or reducing the crown height of the opposing natural dentition. Both of these methods have significant disadvantages and this article describes an alternative solution using a 'striking plate' constructed in cobalt chromium.
A study of the incidence of overeruption and occlusal interferences in unopposed posterior teeth.	To determine the incidence and extent of overeruption in unopposed posterior teeth; to determine the incidence of occlusal interferences associated with unopposed posterior teeth; and to detect an association between the extent of overeruption and the presence of occlusal interference.
Maxillary and mandibular overlay removable partial dentures for the restoration of worn teeth.	This clinical report describes the fabrication of maxillary and mandibular cast overlay removable partial dentures for the restoration of severely worn teeth with accompanying loss of vertical dimension of occlusion. The frameworks supported porcelain veneers for esthetics and metal occlusal surfaces for strength and durability.
The combined orthodontic and surgical treatment of traumatic Class II division 2 in the adult.	A mild Class II division 2 incisal relationship is often associated with a pleasing facial profile and aesthetically acceptable arrangement of the teeth. Severe cases, however, have the potential to cause trauma and a number of older patients present with extensive soft and hard tissue damage. Management options may range from simple preventive advice to complicated surgical orthodontics. Detailed assessment of the case is paramount in developing an appropriate treatment plan.
Treatment outcomes of growing Class II Division 1 patients with varying degrees of anteroposterior and vertical dysplasias, Part 1. Cephalometrics.	The purpose of this retrospective study was to evaluate the differences in orthodontic treatment outcomes for 5 groups of growing Class II Division 1 patients with various anteroposterior and vertical skeletal dysplasias. Pretreatment and posttreatment cephalograms of 100 patients were evaluated for soft and hard tissue treatment effects and differences between groups. Changes from pretreatment to posttreatment differed between groups in correction of overjet and change in ANB angle (P <.05). Those with the largest skeletal dysplasias had the greatest skeletal correction but also retained the largest ANB angles posttreatment. Additional correction was achieved through dentoalveolar change with the greatest uprighting of maxillary incisors occurring in patients who initially were the most severely affected (P <.05); this effect was accompanied by an increase in nasolabial angle. All groups had similar changes in mandibular incisor positions, and final positions of the mandibular incisors did not differ between groups. Compared with norms, Z angles and facial contour angles showed discrimination between the most and least severely affected patients based on combined anteroposterior and vertical dysplasias (P <.05). However, there were no clear-cut divisions between the groups, especially with regard to soft tissue cephalometric outcomes. Further evaluation of profile esthetics follows in Part 2. We conclude that conventional orthodontic therapy successfully corrects Class II Division 1 malocclusions in growing patients through a combination of skeletal and dentoalveolar changes, with the greatest changes occurring in patients who initially have the most severe skeletal dysplasias.
Treatment outcomes of growing Class II Division 1 patients with varying degrees of anteroposterior and vertical dysplasias, Part 2. Profile silhouette evaluation.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate pretreatment and posttreatment soft tissue profiles of 4 groups of growing Class II Division 1 patients treated with fixed orthodontic appliances and headgear. One hundred patients were grouped according to the severity of their initial retrognathia and vertical skeletal status. Standardized pretreatment and posttreatment profile silhouettes of each patient were randomized and projected for scoring by panels of lay persons and orthodontic residents. Statistical analysis consisting of nonparametric procedures showed that (1) as the initial skeletal discrepancies between the 4 groups worsened, the initial profiles were judged to be more unattractive (P <.001); (2) there was no perceived difference in the final profiles between the 4 groups; and (3) significantly greater improvement was measured for those with greater initial skeletal discrepancies (P <.05). This study demonstrated that, with appropriate and timely treatment with fixed orthodontic appliances and headgear, growing Class II Division 1 patients can undergo significant profile improvement, and, on average, even those more severely affected can achieve profile improvement so that they can be judged as attractive as those initially less severely affected.
Dentoskeletal effects and facial profile changes during activator therapy.	The aim of this retrospective study was to investigate cephalometrically the skeletal, dental, and soft tissue modifications induced by activator treatment in patients with Class II malocclusions caused by mandibular retrognathism. The subjects, all in the mixed dentition, were selected from a single centre and were divided into two groups: 40 patients treated with an incisor double capping activator (20 girls, 20 boys with a mean age of 10 years) and a control group of 30 subjects (15 girls, 15 boys with a mean age of 10 years). The dentoskeletal and aesthetic changes that occurred were compared on lateral cephalograms taken before treatment (T0) and after 18-24 months, when the activator was removed (T1). In the control group the radiographs were obtained before (T0) and after (T1) 21 months (standard deviation +/- 3 months). Activator treatment in these growing patients resulted in a correction of the Class II relationship (ANB -2.14 degrees), a restriction of maxillary growth (SNA -0.5 degrees), an advancement of the mandibular structures (SNB +1.64 degrees, FH--NPg +3.39 degrees; OLp-B +5.17 mm, OLp-Pg +5.14 mm, OLp-Go +2.44 mm), a correction of the overjet (-5.03 mm), an improvement in overbite (-1.17 mm) and uprighting of the maxillary incisors (1--FH -5.64 degrees). The activator appliance was effective in treating growing patients with mandibular deficiency: activator therapy corrected Class II malocclusions by a combination of skeletal and dental changes and improved the soft tissue facial profile.
A cephalometric comparison of treatment with the Twin-block and stainless steel crown Herbst appliances followed by fixed appliance therapy.	This study compared the effects of 2 treatment protocols for correcting Class II disharmony. The first phase of treatment consisted of functional jaw orthopedics with either the Twin-block or the stainless-steel crown Herbst appliance; the second phase consisted of comprehensive fixed-appliance therapy in both protocols. Each of the 2 samples comprised 28 consecutively treated Class II patients. The mean age at the start of treatment was approximately 12 years, and the mean age at the end of the treatment was approximately 14.5 years in both groups. The duration of the treatment phase with the functional appliance was approximately 13 months, and the duration of fixed-appliance therapy was approximately 15 months in both groups. The sex distribution was identical in the 2 groups. Lateral cephalograms were analyzed at the start of treatment (T1) and at the end of the overall treatment protocol (T2). Nonparametric statistics were used for comparisons of starting forms and of the T1-T2 changes between the 2 treatment groups. The stainless-steel crown Herbst appliance and the Twin-block appliance produced very similar therapeutic modifications in Class II patients, although the Twin-block group exhibited almost 2 mm greater correction of the maxillomandibular differential than did the crown Herbst group. The treatment effects of both protocols led to a normalization of the dentoskeletal parameters at the end of the overall treatment period. Twin-block therapy also induced a greater increase in the height of the mandibular ramus (posterior facial height). Overall, only minor differences were detected in the treatment and posttreatment effects of a compliance-free (crown Herbst) and a noncompliance-free (Twin-block) appliance for correcting Class II disharmony.
Cephalometric variables predicting the long-term success or failure of combined rapid maxillary expansion and facial mask therapy.	The aim of this study was to select a model of cephalometric variables to predict the results of early treatment of Class III malocclusion with rapid maxillary expansion and facemask therapy followed by comprehensive treatment with fixed appliances. Lateral cephalograms of 42 patients (20 boys, 22 girls) with Class III malocclusion were analyzed at the start of treatment (mean age 8 years 6 months +/- 2 years, at stage I in cervical vertebral maturation). All patients were reevaluated after a mean period of 6 years 6 months (at stage IV or V in cervical vertebral maturation) that included active treatment plus retention. At this time, the sample was divided into 2 groups according to occlusal criteria: a successful group (30 patients) and an unsuccessful group (12 patients). Discriminant analysis was applied to select pretreatment predictive variables of long-term treatment outcome. Stepwise variable selection of the cephalometric measurements at the first observation identified 3 predictive variables. Orthopedic treatment of Class III malocclusion might be unfavorable over the long term when a patient's pretreatment cephalometric records exhibit a long mandibular ramus (ie, increased posterior facial height), an acute cranial base angle, and a steep mandibular plane angle. On the basis of the equation generated by the multivariate statistical method, the outcome of interceptive orthopedic treatment for each new patient with Class III malocclusion can be predicted with a probability error of 16.7%.
Determinants of successful chincup therapy in skeletal class III malocclusion.	The purpose of this study was to investigate skeletal characteristics that determine successful chincup therapy in patients with skeletal Class III malocclusions by using longitudinal follow-up data of 40 patients (18 male, 22 female). Lateral cephalometric radiographs were taken before chincup therapy (T0), after chincup therapy (T1), and after fixed orthodontic treatment and retention (T2). From the measurements at T2, the patients were classified into group 1, showing good retention results (n = 21; 9 male, 12 female), or group 2, showing poor results (n = 19; 9 male, 10 female). The differences at each stage and during T0 to T1 and T1 to T2 between the 2 groups were compared by t tests. The major effect of chincup therapy was backward rotation of the mandible in both groups; however, the amount of rotation was greater in group 2. After retention, group 2 showed more forward rotation and forward growth of the mandible than group 1. Cephalometric measurements that showed significant differences in skeletal and dental morphology between the 2 groups at T0 were L1 to occlusal plane (P <.001), upper gonial angle, AB to occlusal plane angle, AB to mandibular plane angle, ANB, anteroposterior dysplasia indicator, Wits appraisal (P <.01), articular angle, gonial angle, facial convexity angle, AB to facial plane angle, and L1 to A-Pog (P <.05). These factors apparently contributed to the difference of long-term results in the 2 groups. It is necessary to evaluate these items in the diagnosis and treatment planning of skeletal Class III malocclusion in growing patients when chincup therapy is being considered.
Nonnutritive sucking habits in Brazilian children: effects on deciduous dentition and relationship with facial morphology.	This study assessed the relationship between nonnutritive sucking habits, facial morphology, and malocclusion in 3 planes of space (transverse, vertical, and anteroposterior) in 330 Brazilian children (4 years of age) attending state schools in the city of Recife, Brazil. The data were collected by interviews with the children's mothers or minders and by clinical examinations carried out by a calibrated examiner (kappa = 1). The chi-square test, Fisher's exact test, and multivariate analysis were used for statistical analysis. The prevalence of malocclusion in the sample was 49.7%, according to occlusal classification, and 28.5% of the children had 2 or 3 factors contributing to their malocclusion. Posterior crossbite was detected in 12.1%, anterior open bite in 36.4%, and increased overjet in 29.7%. A significant association was found between malocclusion and sucking habits (P <.001). Most of the children had a high facial skeletal pattern, although no association was found between facial morphology and malocclusion. The results draw attention to the magnitude of the problem in childhood and emphasize the need for longitudinal studies to support clinical practice guidelines for the target population.
Orthodontic treatment with growth hormone therapy in a girl of short stature.	The purpose of this article is to review the characteristics of craniofacial morphology in children of short stature and the effects of human growth hormone (HGH) therapy on the craniofacial complex. Changes in body height, facial growth, and dental maturity of a 9-year-old girl who received HGH therapy during orthodontic treatment were observed. Orthodontists need to understand the skeletal characteristics of the craniofacial complex of short-stature patients before beginning orthodontic treatment and consider how the differences between chronologic and skeletal ages affect the timing and method of orthodontic treatment. If short-stature children are undergoing HGH therapy, its cranioskeletal effect should be considered; if possible, it is better to delay orthodontic treatment until HGH is finished. However, if orthodontic treatment is performed, the following should be considered: (1) HGH therapy affects the growth of the mandible more than the growth of the maxilla, (2) the amount and pattern of growth during HGH administration are unpredictable, and (3) HGH therapy rarely affects dental maturity.
An investigation of maxillary and mandibular morphology in different overjet groups.	It has been suggested that overjet may be related to the form of the maxilla and mandible.
Differential wear of teeth and restorative materials: clinical implications.	This study reviewed the wear of commonly used dental restorative materials and their effects on the opposing dentition.
Treatment of snoring and obstructive sleep apnea with mandibular repositioning appliances.	Snoring and obstructive sleep apnea form part of a spectrum of sleep disordered breathing affecting a significant proportion of the general population and particularly the middle aged. The consequences can be severe and even life threatening for both the individual directly affected and those more remotely involved. Adverse sequelae can manifest themselves acutely or in the longer term as a result of obstructive breathing induced hypersomnolence, neurocognitive deficits and cardiovascular abnormalities. The combination of anatomical and neuromuscular risk factors in the pathogenesis of OSA has resulted in a varied approach to its management. One such treatment option is mandibular repositioning appliances (MRA), which mechanically stabilize the airway. Whilst the efficacy of this simple intervention has been rigorously proven quite recently in a significant proportion of patients with varying disease severity, individual patient selection in its application remains uncertain. Short-term side-effects are common but usually transient, whilst in the long-term minor permanent adverse developments on the dentition and occlusion have been reported. Considering both the medicolegal implications of snoring and OSA and the increasing popularity of MRA, it is recommended that skilled multidisciplinary respiratory and dental personnel form the primary care team.
Skeletal relapse after mandibular advancement and setback in single-jaw surgery.	The aim of this study was to identify contributing factors to skeletal relapse by analyzing cephalometric changes after bilateral sagittal split ramus osteotomy.
Predictability of soft tissue profile changes following bimaxillary surgery in skeletal class III Chinese patients.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the accuracy of soft tissue profile predictions generated by a recently developed computer program (Computer-Assisted Simulation System for Orthognathic Surgery [CASSOS] 2001, SoftEnable Technology, Ltd, Hong Kong) in Chinese skeletal Class III patients treated with bimaxillary surgery.
Three-dimensional assessment of the relative contribution of genetics and environment to various facial parameters with the twin method.	The purpose of this prospective study was to help distinguish the relative contributions of heredity and environment to the external facial features and to assess the relative strength of the genetic influence on anteroposterior and vertical facial parameters, by using 3-dimensional optical surface scanning and the inferential twin method. The subject group consisted of 10 pairs of monozygotic twins (5 male, 5 female, mean age 11.9 years), 10 pairs of same-sex dizygotic twins (3 male, 7 female, mean age 12.1 years), and 6 mixed-sex dizygotic twin pairs. Two methods of analysis were used on the 3-dimensional scans. Interlandmark measurements of 28 facial parameters were recorded, and the mean intrapair differences for each parameter were compared between the monozygotic and dizygotic groups. The second method used the analysis of surface shape for all twin pairs. This technique characterizes the face by using 9 surface shapes distinguished visually by color, allowing a qualitative description of the differences between monozygotic and dizygotic twin pairs. Analysis of the 28 facial parameters showed significant ( P< .05) genetic determination for midfacial parameters, especially left eye width, intercanthal width, nose height, and nose width. Analysis of surface shape showed the strongest genetic determination for a triangular area of the midface encompassing the orbital rims, intercanthal area, and nose. The concordance for vertical and anteroposterior facial parameters was found to be greater in monozygotic twins than in dizygotic twins. The concordance for vertical facial dimensions of the middle and lower anterior parts of the face was found to be greater than that for anteroposterior facial dimensions in monozygotic twins.
Comparison of double-plate appliance and facemask therapy in treating Class III malocclusions.	The aim of this study was to compare the effects of the double-plate appliance (DPA) and the facemask (FM) in treating skeletal Class III malocclusions. Data were based on the pretreatment and posttreatment lateral cephalograms of 28 subjects with skeletal and dental Class III malocclusions. In the first group (7 girls, 7 boys; mean age, 10 years 3 months), each subject wore a DPA with 2 Class III elastics, which exerted a force of 350-400 g day and night except for meals. In the second group (7 girls, 7 boys; mean age, 10 years 5 months), each subject wore a Delaire-type FM with a removable intraoral appliance with a total force of 600 g. The patients were instructed to wear the appliance approximately 16 hours a day. An untreated control group (6 girls, 8 boys; mean age, 9 years 8 months) was formed that matched the treatment groups according to sagittal skeletal and dental classifications. Thirteen angular and 14 linear measurements were evaluated. The increase in ANB angle and the decrease in maxillomandibular differential in the treated groups showed significant differences compared with the control group (P < .05). The increases in ANB and SNA angles in the FM group were significantly greater than in the DPA group (P < .05). The increases in lower facial height and Me-ANS in the FM group were significantly different compared with the other groups (P < .05). The overjet increased significantly in both treatment groups (P < .001), but, in the DPA group, overjet was significantly greater than in the FM group (P < .05). Protrusion of the maxillary incisors and retrusion of the mandibular incisors in the DPA group showed significant differences compared with the other groups (P < .05).
Reconstruction of mandibular defects following tumor ablation by vertical distraction osteogenesis using intraosseous distraction devices.	Distraction osteogenesis has recently evolved a challenging technique to overcome major drawbacks of conventional augmentation procedures. We, therefore, report the application of miniaturized intraosseous distraction devices for the rehabilitation of mandibular defects due to ablative tumor surgery.
Influence of extraction and nonextraction orthodontic treatment in Japanese-Brazilians with class I and class II division 1 malocclusions.	The primary objective of this retrospective, longitudinal, cephalometric investigation was to study the influence of extraction and nonextraction orthodontic treatment on the facial height of Japanese-Brazilian children with Class I and Class II Division 1 malocclusions.
Fiber-type differences in masseter muscle associated with different facial morphologies.	The influence of muscle forces and associated physiologic behaviors on dental and skeletal development is well recognized but difficult to quantify because of the limited understanding of the interrelationships between physiologic and other mechanisms during growth.
The effectiveness and long-term stability of overbite correction with incisor intrusion mechanics.	Correction of deep overbite with subsequent achievement of long-term stability is difficult. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effectiveness and long-term stability of overbite correction with incisor intrusion mechanics.
Soft tissue response to genioplasty procedures.	The soft tissue response to genioplasty procedures was studied in 65 patients. The patients were divided into four groups depending on the direction of the genioplasty. In 17 patients straight anterior repositioning was made (group I), in 12 patients posterior repositioning of the chin (group II), in 19 patients vertical reduction of the chin (group III) and in group IV superior-anterior repositioning of the chin. The predictability of the procedures varied. The soft tissue response was equal to the bone movement in the anterior repositioning but less predictable in the posterior direction or when combined with vertical reduction.
Role of occlusal vertical dimension in spindle function.	Several studies have suggested the jaw-muscle spindle as the receptor responsible for regulating and maintaining the occlusal vertical dimension (OVD). However, to challenge this assumption, we hypothesized that long-term changes in OVD could affect the sensory inputs from jaw-muscle spindles. In this study, we investigated changes in masseter muscle spindle function under an increased OVD (iOVD) condition. Responses of primary and secondary endings of masseter muscle spindles to cyclic sinusoidal stretches were investigated. Twenty barbiturate-anesthetized female Wistar rats were divided into control and iOVD groups. Rats in the iOVD group received a 2.0-mm composite resin build-up to the maxillary molars. After iOVD, masseter muscle spindle sensitivity gradually decreased. Primary and secondary spindle endings were affected differently. We conclude that iOVD caused reduction in masseter muscle spindle sensitivity. This result suggests that peripheral sensory plasticity may occur following changes in OVD. Such changes may provide a basis for physiological adaptation to clinical occlusal adjustments.
The effect of bilateral lingual nerve anesthesia and increased occlusal vertical dimension on the onset of swallowing in adult males.	The present study attempts to determine whether the onset of swallowing is affected by bilateral lingual and inferior alveolar nerve anesthesia and by raising the occlusal vertical dimension by wearing an occlusal bite plate. Twenty young male volunteers were selected and asked to chew and swallow corned beef and a corned beef and liquid mixture in their usual manner before and after modifications were made. Oral and pharyngeal swallowing was investigated using videofluoroscopic examination in the lateral plane. Eight objective indicators, including oral containment time, swallowing threshold, and pharynx-to-swallow intervals were estimated. Oral containment time, total sequence duration, total number of chews, and total number of swallows of the two test foods were significantly different before and after the modifications. Individual pharynx-to-swallow intervals also varied. The results indicate that modification of the masticatory condition affects the onset of swallowing and that changes in the onset varied among the participants.
A comparative study of mandibular growth patterns in seven animal models.	The use of nonhuman primate experimental models has helped make significant contributions toward the clinical and surgical management of patients with craniofacial disorders. With concerns such as increasing cost, however, alternative models will have to be identified. The present comparative study describes baseline, age-related changes in mandibular growth patterns for seven commonly used animal models. The data was obtained from 144 serial and cross-sectional lateral head radiographs of unoperated control animals from a number of previous craniofacial growth studies. The sample consisted of 26 rats, 21 rabbits, 21 domestic cats, 23 domestic dogs, 17 baboons, 16 rhesus monkeys, and 20 chimpanzees. Comparative human data were taken from the Bolton Standards. The samples were divided into three age categories: infant, juvenile, and adult. Mandibular growth measurements included overall mandibular length, ramal height, and body height. Comparative analysis consisted of the calculation of percent increase from the infant condition. For all measurements, three major clusters could be discerned: 1) humans, chimps, and rhesus monkeys; 2) dogs and baboons; and 3) cats, rats, and rabbits. Results suggested that for the dimensions studied, long-term mandibular growth was best modeled by short-faced primates, and in particular, the chimpanzee. In addition, dogs and rats showed similar relative percent changes in different regions from juvenile through adulthood stages, which suggests that these animals may be acceptable, inexpensive alternatives to primates in certain experimental situations.
Molar bite force in relation to occlusion, craniofacial dimensions, and head posture in pre-orthodontic children.	The present study examined bite force in relation to occlusion, craniofacial dimensions, and head posture. The sample comprised 88 children (48 girls, 40 boys) aged 7-13 years, sequentially admitted for orthodontic treatment of malocclusions entiling health risks. Bite force was measured in the molar region by means of a pressure transducer. Angle classification, number of teeth and contact in the intercuspal position (ICP) were recorded and dental arch widths were measured on plaster casts. Craniofacial dimensions and head posture were recorded from lateral cephalometric radiographs taken with the subject standing with their head in a standardized posture (mirror position). Associations were assessed by Spearman correlations and multiple stepwise regression analyses.The maximum bite force increased significantly with age in girls, with teeth in occlusal contact in boys, and with increasing number of erupted teeth in both genders. Bite force did not vary significantly between the Angle malocclusion types. Only in boys was there a clear correlation between bite force and craniofacial morphology: cranial base length (n-ba, n-ar), posterior face height (s-tgo, ar-tgo), vertical jaw relationship (NL-ML), mandibular inclination (NSL-ML), form (ML-RL) and length (pg-tgo), and inclination of the lower incisors (Ili-ML). Multiple regression analysis showed that the vertical jaw relationship (P < 0.001) and the number of teeth present (P < 0.01) were the most important factors for the magnitude of bite force in boys. In girls, the most important factor was the number of teeth present (P < 0.001). No correlations between bite force and head posture were found.
Changes in dentoalveolar and facial heights during early and late growth periods: a longitudinal study.	This longitudinal study examined the dentoalveolar structures during early and late growth periods in 62 subjects (26 male, 36 female) with normal facial patterns and acceptable occlusions. Hand-wrist radiographs were assessed and subjects grouped accordingly as either early stage (group 1) or late stage (group 2). Group 1 comprised 30 subjects with skeletal development maturation stages between PP2= and MP3=, H or S. Group 2 comprised 32 subjects with skeletal development maturation stages between MP3u and Ru. Skeletal and dentoalveolar measurements and ratios were assessed at the beginning and end of the observation periods. Differences in measurements and ratios within each group were examined using paired t-tests. Differences between the 2 groups were evaluated using Student's t-tests. Increases in alveolar heights (except for upper posterior alveolar heights) differed between the groups. Vertical alveolar dimensions increased substantially in group 1 in comparison with group 2. With the exception of upper anterior alveolar heights, all increases in group 2 were statistically significant. As a result of differential growth in alveolar dimensions, lower facial ratio (Co-Go/ANS-Me) and overbite remained constant in both stages. Vertical alveolar growth exhibited regional differentiation according to the pubertal growth periods. Although this growth plays a role in the establishment of normal facial patterns and occlusion, it should also be considered with respect to the treatment and treatment stability of patients showing vertical facial discrepancies.
Determinants of successful treatment of bimaxillary protrusion: orthodontic treatment versus anterior segmental osteotomy.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the differences in initial skeletal, dental, and soft tissue characteristics of bimaxillary protrusion (BP) patients to determine poor or good results with orthodontic treatment (OT) or anterior segmental osteotomy (ASO) with extraction of four first premolars. Lateral cephalometric radiographs of 46 adult Korean females with BP were analyzed before treatment (T0) and after treatment (T1). According to the measurements at T1, patients were classified into group 1 (poor result with OT, n = 12), group 2 (good result with OT, n = 11), group 3 (poor result with ASO, n = 5), and group 4 (good result with ASO, n = 18). Sagittal, vertical, dental, and soft tissue variables were measured. The differences at T0 among the four groups were compared by one way analysis of variance test and verified by Scheffe's multiple comparison test. Stepwise discriminant analysis was performed to find decisive predictors. Skeletal class II malocclusion tendency, less developed chin, and vertical facial growth pattern were related with group 1. Overly uprighted and less protrusive upper and lower incisor, near normal interincisal angle (IIA), less protrusive upper lip, and more obtuse lower nasolabial angle (NLA) were related with group 3. IIA, U1-NA distance, combination factor, interlabial gap, lower NLA, pterygomaxillary fissure-N, and posterior nasal spine-anterior nasal spine were selected as significant variables for discriminating the four groups. The percentage of correctly classified cases was 91.3%. In particular, the discriminant function showed the highest accuracy in the prediction of group 4. These variables and discriminant functions contributed to the differential diagnosis on BP to make a procedural decision between OT and ASO.
Skeletal stability after surgical correction of mandibular prognathism by vertical ramus osteotomy.	The purpose of the study was to assess skeletal stability following combined surgical-orthodontic management of 52 adults with severe mandibular prognathism. Lateral cephalograms taken 1 week before surgery, within 1 week post-surgery and approximately 1 year after operation were studied by means of eight variables and a constructive stable reproducible reference system. The surgical procedure of choice was a bilateral vertical ramus osteotomy through an extra-oral approach. In all cases the condyles were left passively in the articular fossa and no attempt at their active repositioning was made. The patients were randomly allocated to an osteosynthesis or non-osteosynthesis group with regard to intramandibular fixation. Intermaxillary fixation lasted 6 weeks and an interocclusal wafer was used in all cases during this period. The findings of this study showed that during the post-operative period there was a trend for posterior rotation of the mandibular corpus (P less than 0.001). This pattern was also characterized by an increase (P less than 0.001) of the lower anterior face height and an improvement of the angle of convexity (P less than 0.001). These changes occurring in a direction so that the dentoskeletal profile became less concave, did not tend to reverse the goal of operation and cannot be considered as detrimental. No significant differences (P greater than 0.05) were found between the groups without and with osteosynthesis.
Skeletal and dento-alveolar changes as a result of headgear activator therapy related to different vertical growth patterns.	The purpose of this study is to evaluate the dental and skeletal effect of the headgear activator according to Van Beek (1981). Special emphasis is put on the changes in vertical position of the incisors after treatment. The material for this study consists of pre- and post-treatment cephalograms of 43 girls and 35 boys with severe Class II malocclusions. Changes due to treatment were compared with two control groups: the series of Riolo et al. (1984), and 50 Austrian children with Class II malocclusions who did not receive treatment during the observation period. The headgear activator was found to be an effective treatment tool in the correction of Class II division 1 malocclusions. The observed skeletal changes were limited to minor growth stimulation of the mandible, while an orthopaedic effect on the maxilla could not be established. The dento-alveolar changes due to headgear activator treatment were most obvious in the upper incisor area resulting in an intrusion and a retroclination of these teeth. Moreover, vertical control of the lower anterior facial height in open bite growth patterns was observed in the sample investigated.
Craniofacial morphology in children with cystic fibrosis.	Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a hereditary metabolic disorder with clinical symptoms of abnormal mucus production. This blocks the airways, gives pancreatic insufficiency, and increases sweat electrolytes. The progressive respiratory disease often leads to respiratory insufficiency and cor pulmonale. The aim of the present investigation was to examine the facial morphology in children with cystic fibrosis. The sample comprised 11 children with cystic fibrosis, who were divided in two groups, one with gastrointestinal disorders and the other with predominantly respiratory insufficiency. Eleven healthy children with normal occlusions were selected as controls. Lateral skull radiographs obtained in natural head posture were digitized, and linear and angular variables for the different groups calculated and compared statistically. The cystic fibrosis group showed open bite, decreased posterior facial height, increased mandibular and craniocervical inclination. Additionally, within the CF-group, the children with respiratory insufficiency differed more from the controls than the children with gastrointestinal disorders. Despite the small number of subjects, the facial morphology of the CF children showed a similar pattern to that of children with nasal respiratory obstruction due to enlarged adenoids or tonsils.
No posterior mandibular displacement in Angle Class II, division 2 malocclusion as revealed with electromyography and sirognathography.	The activity of the anterior and posterior temporal, and of the masseter muscles was studied by electromyography and the position of the mandible by sirognathography. The recordings were made in 22 children, aged 8-13 years, with Angle Class II, division 2 malocclusion before and during treatment of their malocclusion. The treatment comprised two phases: proclination of the upper incisors and bite raising with a removable plate, and the subsequent correction of the distal occlusion with an activator. The aim of the study was to reveal signs of anterior mandibular positioning during the treatment. The electromyographic recordings were made in the rest position of the mandible, and during maximal biting, chewing, and swallowing. The sirognathographic recordings comprised the positions of the mandible at rest, at intercuspation, and during tooth contact during chewing and maximal mandibular movements. The muscle activity at rest was unchanged during the period of observation. The activity during maximal biting, chewing, and swallowing decreased during the phase of proclination, which was interpreted as a result of occlusal instability. The positions of the mandible at rest, at intercuspation, and during chewing were stable during the treatment. Neither the electromyographic recordings nor the recordings of mandibular positions revealed any signs of anterior mandibular positioning during the treatment of the Class II, division 2 malocclusion.
The influence of extraction and nonextraction orthodontic treatment on brachyfacial and dolichofacial growth patterns.	The effects of extraction and nonextraction orthodontic treatment mechanics on patients with dolichofacial and brachyfacial growth patterns between one and two standard deviations were studied. Groups underwent treatment of either nonextraction or extraction of four premolars with the appropriate mechanics for the facial type. Changes in the facial axis and correlation between maxillary molar movement and facial axis change were measured. A positive correlation was found between the amount of anteroposterior movement of the upper molar and change in the facial axis in brachyfacial and dolichofacial patients undergoing nonextraction treatment. A weak correlation was found in the extraction treatment groups. No statistically significant difference was found in the facial axis change among any of the groups studied, regardless of facial type or plan of treatment. There were indications of a more severe opening of the facial axis (Ba-Na plane to constructed gnathion) with greater degrees of maxillary molar distal movement in both facial patterns studied.
Cervical and craniocervical posture as predictors of craniofacial growth.	The present study aimed to determine whether growth changes in craniofacial structure could be predicted by variables expressing the postural relations of the head and the cervical column. The sample comprised 34 children, 16 girls and 18 boys. Cephalometric radiographs obtained in natural head position (mirror position) were taken on two occasions before orthodontic treatment. Mean age was 9.9 years at time 1 and 12.7 years at time 2. Selection of the sample was based on skeletal maturity at time 2 indicating peak activity in pubertal growth. Forty-one reference points and four fiducial points were digitized on each film. Individual growth changes in craniofacial structure were determined by computerized structural superimposition of the digitized sets of points. Correlation coefficients were calculated between 11 postural variables at the first observation and the subsequent growth rate in 36 structural variables. Uniform fields of low to moderate correlation coefficients significant at the 5%, 1%, and 0.1% levels (0.3 to 0.6) were found for eight structural variables, indicating that a small craniocervical angle and a backward-inclined upper cervical column at time 1 was associated with horizontal facial development characterized by reduced backward displacement of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ), large maxillary growth in length, increased facial prognathism, and larger than average true forward rotation of the mandible; whereas, a large craniocervical angle and an upright position of the upper cervical column at time 1 was associated with vertical facial development characterized by large backward displacement of the TMJ, reduced growth in length of the maxilla, reduced facial prognathism, and less than average true forward rotation of the mandible. The findings are in agreement with a theoretical model for the developmental interaction between head posture and facial structure.
Comparison of the craniofacial characteristics of two syndromes associated with the Pierre Robin sequence.	The craniofacial characteristics of two syndromes commonly associated with Robin sequence were compared for 49 subjects. Lateral cephalograms were analyzed for four groupings: Group I--Stickler syndrome with versus without Robin, Group II--velocardiofacial (VCF) syndrome with versus without Robin, Group III--Stickler without Robin compared to VCF without Robin, and Group IV--Stickler with Robin compared to VCF with Robin. Thirty-two skeletal and 18 soft tissue measurements were compared. In Group I, three skeletal measurements were significantly different (SNA, SNB, and SNPg). In Group II, no significant difference was found for any of the 50 measurements. In Group III, a significant difference was demonstrated for seven parameters (one skeletal, six pharyngeal and airway). In Group IV, two skeletal and eight airway measures were significantly different. The findings indicate that the relative maxillary and mandibular retrognathia observed in Stickler/Robin patients may predispose them to the Robin sequence and vice versa; the Robin features in VCF may be caused by hypotonia rather than any craniofacial or physical obstruction of the airway; Stickler and VCF are similar in craniofacial morphology but show marked differences in pharyngeal and airway morphology; and cephalometrics should not be the sole prognosticator of the Robin sequence and its association with Stickler and VCF.
Nasopharyngeal characteristics in children with cleft lip and palate.	Cephalometric assessment of the nasopharynx and its adjacent structures was carried out in two experimental groups of 5-year-old male patients with unilateral cleft lip and palate. The first group included individuals who had not had surgery, and the second was comprised of individuals who were at least 1 year postpalatoplasty with primary pharyngeal flap. They were compared with a control group of boys of comparable average age who did not have clefts. Both groups of patients with clefts showed a reduction of the nasopharyngeal bony framework related to the posterior position and decreased posterior height of the maxilla without hypertrophy of the adenoids. The smaller nasopharyngeal airway was consistent with the reduction of the size of the bony nasopharynx. There was shortening of the anterior cranial base located in the region of the middle cranial fossa. The height of the body of the sphenoid bone was reduced, but the angle of the cranial base was within normal limits.
Predicting vertical dimension with cephalograms, for edentulous patients.	To provide information on vertical dimension (VD), occlusal plane (OP), and size of future occlusal rims, through lateral Rx and cephalometric tracings that analyse and compare hard and soft tissue. To show that these measures are compatible with methods routinely used to prescribe for full.
Differential tooth movement in "uphill cases".	The continuing relevance of the light-wire appliance is illustrated by the treatment of three cases, with emphasis on the beneficial effect of Class II intermaxillary traction the vertical dimension in "low-angle" cases.
Vertical growth of the anterior face: a new approach.	The mechanism of anterior vertical facial growth was studied in normal subjects between 7 and 22 years of age. This subsample (n = 60) of participants in the Nijmegen Growth Study was representative of normal variation with respect to vertical facial proportions. A negative correlation was found between the average growth rate of the upper and lower anterior facial height in boys. Boys with a relatively large facial height exhibited a higher than average growth rate of the lower anterior facial height compared with the upper facial height. In girls a similar trend was present. The individual average growth rate of the anterior upper and lower facial height maintains or accentuates the early established facial form.
Some vertical lineaments of lip position.	This study was performed to elucidate quantitatively upper lip-tooth-jaw relativity in the vertical dimension. Values for five linear dentolabial measurements were generated from male (n = 42) and female (n = 46) reference samples. In addition, three vertical skeletofacial dimensions and two vertical dental dimensions were recorded. A significant sexual dimorphism was found in the vertical lip-tooth-jaw relationship: the upper lip of the female subjects was positioned on average 1.5 mm more superiorly at maximum smile than the upper lip of the male subjects (p less than 0.01). High smile lines appeared to be a female lineament, and low smile lines appeared to be a male lineament. There was a significant sex difference in upper lip length: the male subjects exhibited a longer upper lip than the female subjects (p less than 0.001). The mean difference was 2.2 mm. A similarly significant male-female difference was seen in the skeletal maxillary height measurement: the male sample showed a 2.2 mm mean vertical maxillary increase over the female sample (p less than 0.001). Furthermore, a significant difference was found between the clinical crown height of the maxillary central incisors in the male and female subjects of comparable ages: the male group had longer central incisor crowns (p less than 0.01).
Mandibular growth direction with conventional Class II nonextraction treatment.	The purposes of this study were (1) to compare the direction of mandibular growth (MGD) during treatment and retention for a group of treated Class II patients with untreated controls, and (2) to investigate the relationship between the MGD during treatment and the pretreatment skeletal structure. Pretreatment, posttreatment, and 2 years posttreatment lateral cephalograms of 26 Class II, Division 1 subjects who were treated "nonextraction" with low- or straight-pull headgears were compared with an untreated control group of 15 subjects. Mandibular growth direction was interpreted as the movement of the point gnathion relative to the S-N line when successive tracings were superimposed on the S-N line at S. On average, MGD appeared more vertical during treatment. Posttreatment MGD was generally more horizontal than that during treatment but was also extremely variable. Three of the pretreatment skeletal measures studied, especially the articular angle (SArGo), were significantly related to MGD during treatment. The inclination of the mandibular ramus is apparently an important indicator of how mandibular growth will respond to Class II treatment mechanics.
Soft tissue response to mandibular advancement and genioplasty.	Changes in facial esthetics after orthognathic surgery should be predictable if the results are to be satisfactory. The skeletal elements are moved in a planned and controlled manner, but the soft tissue drape is not as precisely managed. This study was on 31 patients who had undergone a mandibular advancement by means of a sagittal split osteotomy, 17 of whom had also received an advancement genioplasty and 6 received a maxillary impaction. The results showed a consistent 1:1 ratio of soft to hard tissue advancement at pogonion and B point, and that predictions could be accurate in both anteroposterior and vertical directions. When a genioplasty was added to the advancement, however, the results were much less consistent. The mean ratio was 0.9:1 of soft tissue to skeletal movement at pogonion, but the average difference between hard and soft tissue movement was +/- 2.6 mm. Thus the prediction of anteroposterior soft tissue changes was quite inaccurate. Changes in the vertical dimension were also more marked in the genioplasty group. The lower lip also showed a variable response, particularly in the genioplasty group, where the mean ratio was 0.5 mm lip advancement per 1.0 mm skeletal change, but again a range of 4.0 mm in either direction. There were no meaningful changes 1 year after surgery.
Passive resistance increases differentially in various jaw displacement directions.	In the present study, the passive resistance of the human jaw system was quantified in relation to the three-dimensional jaw displacement and the Posselt-envelope, using both in vivo measurements and computer simulation.
Postoperative skeletal stability following clockwise and counter-clockwise rotation of the maxillomandibular complex compared to conventional orthognathic treatment.	Rotation of the maxillomandibular complex (MMC) and the consequent alteration of the occlusal plane (OP) angulation is a well documented orthognathic surgical design. This study presents a comparison of the long-term postoperative skeletal stability following clockwise rotation (CR), and counter-clockwise rotation (CCR) of the MMC with the skeletal stability of patients treated according to conventional treatment planning principles. The long-term postoperative skeletal stability of the (CR) group and the (CCR) group of patients were found to compare favorably with the group of patients treated by conventional treatment (CT) planning. The long-term postoperative stability of all three groups also compared well with skeletal stability reported in the literature following double jaw surgery.
Cephalometric correction factors for bite opening--a dry skull study.	The lateral cephalometric radiograph supplies the clinician with valuable information regarding the facial skeletal morphology of the patient, provided that it is taken correctly. These radiographs should be taken while the patient is occluding in maximum intercuspation, failing which the exposure is often repeated, leading to an increase in patient radiation dose as well as added cost in time and materials. This study investigated the relationship between limited bite opening and selected cephalometric variables. Thirty-one dry skulls were used and five splints were constructed for each skull giving increments of bite opening from 0 to 5 mm. Six lateral radiographs per skull were taken at each increment of bite opening. The radiographs were traced and the points plotted using a reflex metrograph. A linear relationship was found between bite opening and SNB, ANB, SN-mandibular plane, and SN-Y-axis angles. Errors in digitization, superimposition, and landmark identification were determined and found to be acceptable. Regression analysis produced a highly significant (P < 0.001) gradient for each of these angular relationships, allowing a set of correction factors to be produced, which can be applied to bite openings up to 5 mm.
Construction faults associated with complete denture wearers' complaints.	Edentulism is considered a poor health outcome and may compromise the quality of life. Although the number of adults losing their natural teeth is diminishing, there are still large numbers of edentulous adults in the population. A retrospective study was conducted with information derived from literature (from 1984 till 2004) about the patients who experienced ongoing difficulties with new complete dentures, to determine possible underlying causes. Relationships were observed when denture construction or design faults were compared with patient complaints and the advised solution of the problem. CONCLUSION. This study suggests that in most instances, complete denture patients present with complaints only when there is real design fault. Clinician must carefully evaluate the denture for faults in denture base extension and horizontal and vertical jaw relationships.
Interceptive treatments for deformities in the vertical dimension]	Vertical dimension deformities result from an interference of multiple etiological factors acting during the growth period. They include maxillary and mandibular growth, dento-alveolar compensations as well as the functional environment. These deformities do not work in total isolation, but usually combine with others present in sagittal and transverse dimensions. Our intervention has to be three-dimensional and take into consideration the interaction of the three dimensions of space. It must address soft tissue components as well as the dento-alveolar and the skeletal ones of the maxilla and the mandible. Interceptive treatment of vertical dimension deformities rests on two pillars: the diagnosis and therapeutics. The diagnostic pillar aims to show how different structures relate to each other as well as with neighboring structures. These structures consist of the soft tissue components that will eventually control the smile, the dento-alveolar component that influences occlusal plane inclination and the skeletal component that determines the vertical facial type. Using this analysis, we classify our patients in categories that facilitate our later therapeutic intervention. The therapeutic pillar is constructed in an attempt to find solutions for the list of problems established during diagnosis and to encourage development of logical individualized thinking, independently of the orthodontic technique used. All of this underlines the importance of choosing an Individualized Orthodontic Therapy based upon concepts that respond to different individual clinical situations and work most effectively to achieve treatment objectives.
Mandibular first molar relation to variable lower face skeletal components.	To evaluate the position of the mandibular first permanent molar in the mandible relative to several factors.
Bite force and maxillofacial morphology in patients with Duchenne-type muscular dystrophy.	The purpose of this study is to evaluate maxillofacial morphology and bite force in patients with severe Duchenne-type myodystrophy.
High condylectomy and disc repositioning compared to arthroscopic lysis, lavage, and capsular stretch for the treatment of chronic closed lock of the temporomandibular joint.	The article shows the 1-yr results comparing the efficacy of open-surgery high condylectomy and disc repositioning and the arthroscopic procedure of lysis, lavage and capsular stretch in patients with chronic closed lock of the temporomandibular joint (TMJ).
Effects of treatment with a combined maxillary protraction and chincap appliance in skeletal Class III patients with different vertical skeletal morphologies.	Several cephalometric studies and case reports have described the effects of treatment with a maxillary protraction appliance (MPA) and chincap appliance. The purpose of this investigation was to identify differences in the response to treatment with a combined MPA and chincap in skeletal Class III patients with different vertical skeletal morphologies: short- (low mandibular plane angle) and long- (high mandibular plane angle) face types. The cephalograms used in this study were of 42 Japanese girls at the beginning of treatment (T0, mean age 10.1 years) and at removal of the appliance (T1, mean age 11.5 years). The subjects were divided into two groups (short and long face) according to the inclination of the mandibular plane at T0. Total anterior face height, upper and lower face height, occlusal plane, and gonial angle were significantly larger in the long-face group at T0. In both groups, significant increases in SNA, maxillary size (A'-Ptm'), and ANB were noted during treatment. Compared with the long-face group, the short-face group showed greater forward displacement and size increment of the maxillary body, while there were no significant differences in changes in mandibular size or position between the two groups. These results indicate that the vertical dimensions of the craniofacial skeleton are important factors in the orthopaedic effects of a MPA and chincap and the prognosis for skeletal Class III patients.
Changes in the soft tissue profile after extraction orthodontic therapy.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of extraction therapy and use or nonuse of headgear on the soft tissue profile in subjects with different growth patterns.
An evidence-based approach to treatment of open bite and deep bite: case reports.	Evidence-based decision making is gaining increased emphasis in medicine and dentistry. Since orthodontics is both an art and a science, not all decisions can be based solely on scientific findings. However, to the extent that orthodontics is a science and is based on the principles of scientific method, the clinician can practice evidence-based decision making. This article summarizes the results of 6 case-controlled studies on treatment changes in deep bite or open bite.
The Class II subdivision or acquired unilaterally dominant mastication syndrome]	Unilateral disto-occlusion of the molars and the canine teeth, described by Angle as Class II subdivision, is often characterized by asymmetric development of the maxillae in conjunction with a disturbance in physiological mastication. In addition to the unilateral malposition of the molars and the canine, this Class II subdivision condition is routinely accompanied by an ensemble of symptoms that the authors propose regrouping under the designation "children's acquired unilaterally dominant mastication syndrome". They use several clinical examples to illustrate the diagnosis of this condition that they consider to be a syndrome of craniofacial asymmetry.
Postnatal craniofacial skeleton development following a pushback operation of patients with cleft palate.	A longitudinal growth study of the craniofacial skeleton in 52 (19 males, 33 females) Danish individuals with cleft palates was performed. Thirty (13 males, 17 females) had clefts of the soft palate only or clefts extending into the posterior third of the hard palate. Twenty-two (6 males, 16 females) had more extensive clefts including up to two-thirds of the hard palate. The cleft was closed with a pushback operation at 22 months of age. Orthodontic treatment was included in the early mixed dentition. Lateral cephalometries were obtained at 5, 8, 12, 16, and 21 years of age. Twenty-four variables were digitized and analyzed. The results indicated that patients with more extensive clefts demonstrated significantly smaller anterior cranial base length (N-S), total cranial base length (N-Ba), maxillary dentoalveolar base length (A-PMP), mandibular length (Cd-Pgn), upper anterior and posterior facial heights (N-ANS and P-PMP), and total facial height (N-Gn). Patients with the more extensive clefts reached maximum growth spurt later than patients with less extensive clefts in all dimensions except the A-PMP and the lower and total facial heights.
The evaluation of direct composite restorations for the worn mandibular anterior dentition - clinical performance and patient satisfaction.	This prospective split-mouth clinical trial evaluated the performance and patient satisfaction of 168 Herculite XRV direct composite restorations bonded to the worn anterior dentition of 18 patients with localized anterior tooth surface loss. One hundred and six of these restorations were placed on the mandibular anterior teeth. The restorations increased the anterior occlusal vertical dimension between 0.5 and 5 mm and the posterior occlusal contacts were restored after a mean duration of 6.2 months (range: 3-13 months) in 14 out of the 15 'Dahl' sub-group patients. The restorations were evaluated after 2.5 years of service by five examiners. Four patients and 23 mandibular restorations were lost to follow-up. Multiple clinical and restorative variables were assessed to determine their influence on restoration performance. Complete failure occurred in 6% of the restorations. Circumferential preparation and height of the restorative addition did not influence the performance of the restorations. A Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) was used to assess the patient's opinion regarding sensitivity, aesthetics, longevity and function of the worn mandibular anterior teeth. A statistically significant difference (95% CI) was found between the pre-operative and 1-month review VAS responses for aesthetics and longevity and this was maintained at the 2.5-year review. Direct composite restorations placed at an increased occlusal vertical dimension are a simple and time-efficient method of managing the worn mandibular anterior dentition. Patient's acceptance and adaptation to the technique is good and the results are accompanied with a high level of patient satisfaction that is maintained for the medium-term.
Determining the cessation of vertical growth of the craniofacial structures to facilitate placement of single-tooth implants.	Single-tooth implants are commonly used to replace congenitally missing teeth in adolescent orthodontic patients. However, if implants are placed before cessation of facial growth, they will submerge relative to the adjacent erupting teeth. Therefore, it is important to know when facial growth is complete in postpubertal orthodontic patients. The purposes of this study were to determine and quantify the amount of vertical growth of the facial skeleton and the amount of eruption of the central incisors and the maxillary first molars after puberty.
Long-term results of jaw reconstruction with microsurgical fibula grafts and dental implants.	The aim of this retrospective study was to evaluate the long-term utility of the free fibula flap for the reconstruction of the maxilla and mandible and to investigate its suitability for prosthetic rehabilitation with dental implants focusing on implant survival and implant-related morbidity.
Longitudinal intermaxillary relationships in class III malocclusions with low and high mandibular plane angles.	To analyze the sagittal, vertical, and transverse relationships of the maxilla and mandible in Japanese girls with Class III malocclusions with different inclination of mandibular plane.
Longitudinal effects of rapid maxillary expansion.	To evaluate the long-term effects of rapid maxillary expansion (RME) via banded expanders in the sagittal and vertical facial planes.
Treatment efficiency in skeletal Class II patients treated with the jasper jumper.	To analyze the effects of the Jasper Jumper appliance during the treatment of skeletal Class II malocclusion.
Masticatory exercise as an adjunctive treatment for hyperdivergent patients.	This retrospective study was designed to evaluate the morphologic effects of masticatory muscle exercise as an adjunctive therapy for hyperdivergent patients treated with fixed orthodontic appliances.
Skeletal sagittal and vertical facial types and electromyographic activity of the masticatory muscle.	To investigate the electromyographic activities of the anterior temporal (T) and masseter (M) muscles in different facial skeletal types.
Vertical crestal bone changes around implants placed into fresh extraction sockets.	The aim of this study was to analyze bone healing and vertical bone remodeling for implants placed immediately after tooth removal without guided bone regeneration techniques.
Relationships between jaw muscle cross-sections and craniofacial morphology in normal adults, studied with magnetic resonance imaging.	In 32 Caucasian adult males serial MRI scans of the jaw muscles were taken approximately perpendicular to the mean fibre direction of the jaw muscles to determine their cross-sectional areas. These areas are proportional to the maximal isometric strength of a muscle. To describe facial skeletal variation, nine angular and 21 linear cephalometric measurements were recorded, and statistically reduced by means of multiple regression and principal component analysis. Six components were extracted, rotated, and subsequently correlated with the maximal cross-sectional areas of the jaw elevators and anterior digastric muscle. Positive significant correlations were found between a linear combination of several transversal skull dimensions on the one hand, and the maximal temporalis and masseter cross-sections on the other. A negative significant correlation was found between the flexure of the cranial base and the temporalis cross-section. Surprisingly, no significant correlations were found between either anterior facial height or posterior facial height and any of the jaw muscles cross-sections. It was concluded that, in adult males with normal skull shape, relationships exist to a limited extent between craniofacial morphology and the cross-sectional areas of the jaw muscles.
Positioning control of the upper incisors in orthognathic surgery. Pre-operative planning with the Model Positioning Device and intra-operative application of the Sandwich Splint.	In orthognathic surgery a three-dimensional positioning of the maxilla is possible by means of the Le Fort I osteotomy and subsequent maxillary movement. In treatment planning and at the time of surgery it is very important to achieve an exact positioning of the upper incisors in relation to the upper lip and the rest of the skull. The Model Positioning Device described here allows three-dimensional positioning of the upper incisors in one- or two-jaw surgery. The reference plane is the upper surface of the upper part of a semi-individually adjustable articulator. The application of the Sandwich Splint enables the three-dimensional positioning of the maxilla in relation to the rest of the skull. The Sandwich Splint ensures that the vertical position of the mandible in relation to the rest of the skull above the osteotomy plane is exactly reproducible in the pre- and post-operative situation in both model surgery and at time of surgery. To this mandibular position the maxilla is positioned in three dimensions, as preplanned. The vertical dimension, which is identically reproducible before and after surgery is measured with a caliper. After surgery the mandible can be rotated into the planned new intercuspidation.
A postero-anterior cephalometric evaluation of adult open bite subjects as related to normals.	Reduced nasal airflow can be the result of enlarged adenoids, hypertrophic turbinates, severely deviated nasal septum, or even narrow nasal cavities. The question of whether the width of the nasal cavity may influence certain facial dimensions examined on the postero-anterior cephalometric X-ray was evaluated through the study of two different groups of subjects. Possible intercorrelations between some other frontal dimensions were also examined in these subjects. The first group consisted of 15 males and 22 females aged from 17 to 25 years diagnosed as having an anterior open bite of at least 2 mm. The second group consisted of 20 males and 16 females aged from 19 to 25 years with a normal Class I skeletal and dental pattern. Postero-anterior cephalometric X-rays were taken for all individuals and the following dimensions were measured: facial width, nasal width, maxillary width, mandibular width, nasal height, and lower facial height. Statistical analysis was performed for the primary linear measurements as well as for certain ratios. Nasal height and lower facial height were found to be significantly increased in both males and females of the open bite group. The ratios of nasal width to lower face height, as well as nasal width to nasal height, were found to differ significantly only between open bite and normal females, being higher in the latter group.
Functional hierarchy and mandibular esthetics]	The purpose of the present study based on the comparison of two populations showing a different average of age, was to see the possible action of the tongue on the mandibular morphology. This study included the examination of norma lateralis teleradiographs, while both facial and lingual musculatures were in rest position. If it appears that older subjects show a close correlation between mandibular divergence and lingual height, this relation doesn't take place in younger subjects although they present an earlier mandibular hyperdivergence. May breathing, a function hierarchically of the highest importance be more determinant in lower face organisation than deglutition and lingual equilibrium?
A comparative study of cephalometric evaluation criteria of the cutaneous profile]	The objectives of this study is to challenge the soft tissue profile standards of esthetics and to compare them with the feeling and the sense of beauty of the large public. The facial profile of one hundred fifty-two cinema stars and top models (seventy-one men and eighty-one women) were analysed. Twenty three measurements were taken among the most used and widely accepted. These references come from the works of very reknown orthodontists and researchers: BURSTONE, HOLDAWAY, MERRIFIELD, PECK and PECK, RICKETTS, STEINER, WORMS (as described by MOSHIRI). The results demonstrate, after statistical analysis that: some values are very different compared with the references; those discrepancies neither concern the same values nor for the same amount, or to the same direction for the male or the female samples. The mean male soft tissue profile is more concave, prognathic type with more retruded upper and lower lips and more reduced lower face height than the standards described by the authors. The mean women soft tissue profile tends to be more convex with a relatively more protruded upper lip and a more retrognathic mandible than the "standards". The whole face height is significantly reduced with a more marked discrepancy for the nasal height and the lower lip length. The nasal prominence is also reduced compared with the norms. It appears then that we cannot trust anymore references that do not take into account differences between men and women ideal facial profiles for the analysis of soft tissue profile in orthodontics and maxillo-facial surgery. The values described by the authors, which are our daily standards, do not seem to match the large public sense of esthetics and therefore our patients feeling of beauty.
"Special" orthodontics to serve esthetics and function]	Classical orthodontic approaches to bicuspid extractions in closed bite cases do not always reach the esthetic goal. To avoid worsening the profile concavity and undesired alterations in the nasolabial angle, incisor retraction must be discussed individually. We report third molar extraction cases with optimized changes in facial profiles.
Some possibilities to assess maxillary-mandibular occlusion in fixed dental prosthesis]	Occlusion determination, registration and transfer represent an important phase of the fix prosthetic treatment. This goal can be achieved using different materials such as: silicon, special occlusal wax, ZOE paste, acrylic resin and occlusal rims. Specific techniques for specific clinical situations are described, together with some associated procedures: provisional restoration after tooth preparation and split wearing.
Gingival and dentofacial changes in adolescents and adults 2 to 10 years after orthodontic treatment.	Information about long-term changes of the shape of the gingival margin is missing.
A study of cephalometric appraisal of the inheritance of craniofacial pattern in Gorkhas.	The phenotypic expression of biologic variability expressed in the craniofacial complex is influenced by constant interplay of heredity and environmental factors. The aim of this study was to observe the pattern of inheritance of cranio-facial complex in Gorkhas. Gorkhas are the original inhabitants of NEPAL in the slopes of HIMALAYAS and they generally marry strictly in their race. 76 individuals from 19 Gorkha families (son, daughter and both parents); were selected. Eight angular (saddle angle, articular angle, gonial angle, N-S-Gn, N-S-Go, SNA, SNB and ANB angles) and four linear (anterior facial height, posterior facial height, overjet and overbite) variables were measured from lateral head cephalograms and the values of the variables were evaluated and compared. It was found that the Inheritance of cranio facial pattern has shown significant coefficient of correlation from mother to offsprings for jarabak ratio, father to son for NS-Gn and NS-Go angle, father to daughter for articular and ANB angles. Different parts of craniofacial complex represents the resultant of morphology and size variation. Each one of these components are in turn influenced by many genetic and environmental factors.
Divine proportions in the growing face.	The aim of this study was to answer this question: to what extent do facial proportions change in comparison with the divine values during growth?
The aging craniofacial complex: a longitudinal cephalometric study from late adolescence to late adulthood.	The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate craniofacial growth changes from late adolescence through late adulthood in participants from the University of Michigan Elementary and Secondary School Growth Study.
Lengths of the maxillary central incisor, the nasal bone, and the anterior cranial base in different skeletal malocclusions.	Based on the results of previous studies of osseous structures within the frontonasal field in patients with a known malformation in the frontonasal field, the aim of the present study was to clarify whether the same structures were malformed in patients with severe skeletal malocclusions.
A twin study of genetic variation in proportional radiographic alveolar bone height.	The purpose of this study was to estimate the genetic variance for alveolar bone height by means of the classic twin method and the study of monozygous twins reared apart. Panoramic radiographs were obtained from 120 pairs of adult twins (mean age = 40.4 years, S.D. = 10.4 years), for comparison of 62 pairs of monozygous twins reared together (MZT), 25 pairs of like-sexed dizygous twins reared together (DZT), and 33 pairs of monozygous twins reared apart (MZA). Mesial and distal bone heights were determined as a proportion of tooth length. A full-mouth bone score was computed for each twin by averaging these proportions from all measurable teeth. Between-pair (B) and within-pair (W) variances were computed for each twin group. The population variances (B + W) of the MZT and DZT twin groups were similar, which validated a basic assumption of the twin model. Intraclass correlations and heritability estimates were also computed for the reared-together and reared-apart twin groups. Boot-strap sampling was used to provide estimates and confidence limits for these values. The intraclass correlations for the twin groups were: MZT = 0.70, DZT = 0.52, and MZA = 0.55. The results of this study suggest that there is significant genetic variance in the population for proportional alveolar bone height.
Age effects on orthodontic treatment: adolescents contrasted with adults.	Skeletodental treatment changes in 30 adolescent girls and 26 women who had Class II, Division 1 malocclusions were contrasted cephalometrically, primarily with the McNamara analysis. The data show that adult treatment does not obligate the practitioner to longer treatment. In this study, both age groups were treated in 2.5 years on the average. Apical base corrections were achieved with equal facility in both groups by the posterior remodeling of point A, and this (in conjunction with unrestrained mandibular growth) is the major source of correction in the adolescents. In adults, in whom growth is trivial, an appreciable source of sagittal correction is the steepening of the occlusal plane. Several sequelae of Class II elastic force occurred as by-products of molar correction in the adults: increased mandibular molar eruption, increased maxillary molar intrusion, increased maxillary incisor eruption, increased mandibular incisor intrusion, and steepening of the occlusal plane.
Conceptual approach to complex rehabilitation of a patient with bulimia nervosa: a case report.	This case report presents the clinical and technical protocol involved in treating a 32-year-old patient whose teeth and dental appearance were severely compromised as a result of bulimia nervosa. Patients suffering from this disorder have a high incidence of erosion of dentin and enamel, which over time may cause loss of vertical dimension. This has an impact on the patient's overall appearance, with effects such as sunken lips, lack of support, and creases at the corners of the mouth.
Compromised anterior esthetics following orthodontic treatment for loss of central incisors: part 2.	This two-part treatment series describes the examination, planning, and prosthetic treatment of a 17-year-old female patient whose maxillary central incisors were traumatically lost at the age of 9 years. The first part presented analysis of function and esthetics, and the advantages and disadvantages of the different prosthodontic treatment options were discussed. In this second part of the article, treatment selection, along with the rationale for the decision, the sequence of treatment steps, and the final result are revealed.
Relationship between vertical dentofacial morphology and respiration in adolescents.	The relationship between vertical dentofacial morphology and respiration has been debated and investigated from various approaches. The purpose of this study was to use contemporary respirometric techniques to compare the breathing behavior of normal and long-faced adolescents. Sixteen normal and 32 long-faced subjects 11 to 17 years of age were chosen clinically and verified by means of a discriminant function. Vertical and anteroposterior facial form was assessed from lateral cephalometric radiographs according to the following measurement criteria: six skeletal angular, eight skeletal linear, four dental linear, and three skeletal ratios. Breathing behavior was quantified according to tidal volume, minimum cross-sectional nasal area, and percent of nasal breathing as assessed by pneumotachography, measurement of differential pressures, and inductive plethysmography. The data indicated that the normal and long-faced groups were significantly different with respect to lower face form, and each group in the study was comparable to groups that had been chosen by previous investigators. Multiple regression analysis demonstrated that the normal and long-faced groups had similar tidal volumes and minimum nasal cross-sectional areas, but the long-faced subjects had significantly smaller components of nasal respiration. These results illustrate that groups without significant differences in airway impairment can have significantly different breathing modes that may be behaviorally based, rather than airway-dependent.
An American Board of Orthodontics case report. Correction of a Class III mandibular prognathism and asymmetry through orthodontics and orthognathic surgery.	The Class III malocclusion with mandibular prognathism can involve many factors, among which are excessive mandibular growth, underdevelopment of the maxilla, environmental factors, and trauma to the jaws. The correction of this malocclusion can involve an orthodontic or a combined orthodontic-orthognathic approach. Skeletal asymmetries can complicate this situation, making treatment either more difficult, more complicated, or both. This case presentation involves treatment with a combined orthodontic-orthognathic approach. [This case was presented to the American Board of Orthodontics in partial fulfillment of the requirements for the certification process conducted by the Board.]
A technique for evaluating bony changes in the anterior edentulous maxilla: a modification of a cephalometric analysis.	A modification of a cephalometric analysis is presented for evaluating maxillary bone loss in the edentulous maxilla. The analysis involves tracing a lateral cephalometric radiograph of an edentulous maxilla, identifying the new landmarks, and measuring the appropriate vertical and horizontal distances of the maxilla. Comparison of the measurements for the patient's initial or baseline radiographic analysis with those of the patient's follow-up radiographic analysis identifies the amount of bone loss that has occurred between the two examinations.
Craniofacial morphological outcome following treatment with three different surgical protocols for complete unilateral cleft lip and palate: a premilinary study.	This study compared craniofacial morphology between three groups of children with complete unilateral cleft lip and palate, treated with different surgical protocols. The study included 66 10-year-old children (42 boys and 20 girls) with a complete unilateral cleft lip and palate (22 patients in each of the three groups). Children aged 7 months underwent one-stage surgery, performed by a single surgeon. During surgery, the soft and hard palate and the lip underwent correction. The difference between the groups depended on the hard palate closure. Group I patients had the mucoperiosteal flap elevated on both sides of the cleft. Group II patients had the mucoperiosteal flap elevated on the non-cleft side, and had only a minimal 2-3mm mucoperiosteal flap elevated on the cleft side. Group III patients had mucoperiostium elevated from the septum vomer to create a single-layered caudally pedicled flap, and had only a minimal 2-3mm palatal flap elevated on the cleft side. Craniofacial morphology was defined using lateral cephalometric analysis. Significant craniofacial morphological differences were identified between groups I, II and III. Group III demonstrated the most favourable morphology. This indicates that the technique of hard palate closure has significant influence on craniofacial growth and development.
Mandibular "tripod" advancement of a Class II Division 2 deepbite malocclusion.	This case report describes the treatment of a 25-year-old woman with a Class II malocclusion, secondary to mandibular skeletal deficiency, and mild overclosure. Inferior surgical repositioning of the maxilla is often the treatment of choice for patients with maxillary vertical deficiency; however, this patient had borderline vertical deficiency that was treated with a mandibular "tripod" advancement (leveling of the mandibular arch after surgery) coupled with a setback and down-grafting genioplasty. The surgical-orthodontic treatment plan, combined with cosmetic dentistry, resulted in dramatically improved facial esthetics and occlusal relationships.
Influence of loading forces on the vertical accuracy of interocclusal records.	To evaluate the influence of loading forces on the vertical discrepancies caused by interocclusal recording materials.
Restoration of occlusal vertical dimension in dental erosion caused by gastroesophageal reflux: case report.	The authors describe a minimally invasive procedure for occlusal rehabilitation in a young patient presenting with mild mandibular prognathism and loss of occlusal vertical dimension caused by dental erosion from chronic gastroesophageal reflux.
Evaluation of the smile: facial and dental considerations.	The purpose of this article is to establish an evidence-based evaluation of the esthetic region of the mouth, by reviewing normal values for the face, the smile line, and the teeth.
Mandibular function in children with a lateral forced bite.	Open-close-clench cycles have been studied in 12 children with a lateral forced bite in order to investigate how the neuromuscular system of the mandible adapts itself in the presence of occlusal interferences. The mandibular movements were registered in a frontal plane at the central incisors with an opto-electronic registration technique. Series of 35 cycles were recorded to intercuspal position, against flat occlusal splints constructed in intercuspal raised and retruded positions, and against splints with occlusal stops in a retruded position. Average lateral displacements of the mandible during cycle series against flat occlusal splints were measured relative to cycle series to intercuspal position and relative to series against splints with occlusal stops in the retruded position. The lateral mandibular displacements were registered at maximal tooth-tooth or tooth-splint contact and at 7, 14, and 21 mm mouth-opening. It was found that the mandible in the subjects investigated is displaced to the forced bite side both during cycle series into intercuspal position as well as when occlusal contacts are eliminated by the use of flat occlusal splints.
Vertical skeletal change associated with Andresen, Harvold, and Begg treatment.	A retrospective cephalometric study was carried out to compare the vertical skeletal changes between patients treated with an Andresen (30), Harvold (19), or Begg (30) appliance, and an untreated control group (24). It was found that angular changes between the anterior cranial base, the maxillary and mandibular planes, and the y axis of growth showed a transient increase during treatment with the exception of SN-MxP in the Harvold group which decreased. Long-term these tended to relapse and the changes were not significant. Lower anterior face height was increased by 0.4 mm/annum long-term (P less than 0.01) in the Andresen group and upper anterior face height was restrained by 0.5 mm/annum (P less than 0.01) with the Harvold appliance. No significant changes were found in posterior face heights.
The effect of Andresen, Harvold, and Begg treatment on overbite and molar eruption.	A retrospective cephalometric study was carried out to compare the vertical dental changes between patients treated with the Andresen (30), Harvold (19), or Begg (30) appliances, and an untreated control group (24). It was found that all three appliances successfully reduced the overbite although the reduction tended to be more stable with the functional appliances. Overbite was reduced by a combination of factors which varied according to the appliance used, but included lower incisor intrusion or restraint, molar eruption, vertical growth of the face and lower incisor proclination in the functional groups. Relapse appeared to be primarily due to continued lower incisor eruption, retroclination of these teeth, and forward rotation of the mandible with continued growth.
An experimental study of vertical deviations induced by different interocclusal recording materials.	This study was designed to determine vertical deviations in mounting casts on an articulator as affected by the recording material. Five different recording materials were tested after storage of the records for 30 minutes, 6 hours, and 24 hours. Two measuring systems were used to register simultaneously the vertical errors at the occlusal plane and at the condyle of an articulator. The results indicated that the measurements made at the condyle cannot detect the vertical deviations induced at the occlusal surfaces. None of the materials tested gave reliable results. Advantages, disadvantages, and indications of the different materials were discussed.
Three-dimensional analysis of condylar hyperplasia with computed tomography.	Three-dimensional surface reconstruction imaging from CT scans was used to study the deformity of the mandible in six patients with mandibular asymmetry. High-resolution axial CT scans of the mandible were obtained using Somatom-DR3 (Siemens). COSMOZONE-2SA (Nikon) with PC-9801VX21 (NEC) was used to reconstruct the three-dimensional images. The six patients were divided into two groups. One group was classified as unilateral hybrid forms and the other group was classified hemimandibular elongation on the diagnostic criteria of Obwegeser and Makek (1986). In the three-dimensional surface reconstruction, exact location and the degree of the deformity in the region from the ascending ramus to the condylar head and the lingual aspect from the ascending ramus to the mandibular body were accurately represented. In addition, the three-dimensional images could be easily rotated arbitrarily, precise evaluation could be done at every part of the mandible. On diagnosis, the mandibular morphology classified into the unilateral hybrid forms was presumed to vary from case to case even in the same classification.
An electrognathographic study of aspects of 'deprogramming' of human jaw muscles.	Three-dimensional electrognathography of an incisor point was used to detect peripheral correlates of deprogramming of the jaw elevator muscles. Putative deprogramming was attempted through the clinically recommended use of a leaf gauge, placed for 10-15 min between the maxillary and mandibular anterior teeth and disoccluding the posterior teeth by about 2 mm. Studied mandibular displacements were those that occurred during voluntary elevation of the mandible from the postural to the intercuspal position. Use of the leaf gauge did not affect the displacement patterns. Within a freeway space of about 0.2 mm3, the incisor point moved about 2 mm vertically, about 1 mm sagittally, and about 0.2 mm laterally.
Postural contractile activities of human jaw muscles following use of an occlusal splint.	As induced by an occlusal splint over a period of 1 week, this study monitored surface electromyographic changes in the postural contractile activities of jaw elevator and depressor muscles in six healthy adults. The immediate effect of the occlusal splint was to increase the postural contractile activities of the suprahyoid muscles. All postural muscle activities showed wide-ranging biological variation, but the activities induced by the splint tended to stabilize within 1 week, with decreased postural activities in the masseter and anterior temporalis muscles, and increased postural activities in the suprahyoid muscles.
The stability of double jaw surgery: a comparison of rigid versus wire fixation.	The subjects of this study were 35 patients who underwent simultaneous surgery for superior repositioning of the maxilla and advancement of the mandible. They were studied cephalometrically for a comparison of the postsurgical stability of two commonly used fixation techniques: (1) rigid fixation with bone plates and (2) skeletal-wire fixation. One surgeon performed the operations on all 35 patients, and both groups were studied for an average of 15 months after surgery. Results showed that, although the maxilla remained relatively stable after surgery with both fixation techniques, rigid fixation tended to improve stability, primarily by eliminating relapse in excess of 2 mm. Mandibular stability was much greater with rigid fixation: the amount of relapse of the horizontal projection of B point with this method was 6%, while in the skeletal-wire sample it was 26%. Increased rotational stability between the proximal and distal segments of the mandible appeared to be a major factor in the improved overall stability of the rigid-fixation sample. The amount of mandibular relapse was found to be correlated to the amount of advancement in the wire-fixation sample, but not in the rigid-fixation sample.
Relationship between molar dentoalveolar and craniofacial heights in children.	The relationship between posterior dentoalveolar heights and craniofacial vertical pattern has been matter of debate. Increased posterior dentoalveolar heights have been reported to be present in long face subjects, while in few studies the amount of molar dentoalveolar heights was negatively influenced by the divergence of the jaws. This, in turn, was interpreted as a dentoalveolar compensatory mechanism by which the teeth and the alveolar process adapt to jaw relationship in order to maintain a functional occlusion. Although this dentoalveolar compensatory mechanism has been reported to be present in adults and in subjects with permanent dentition, currently it is not known whether it might occur also in an early phase of growth, i.e. before growth spurts. In this study we tested the hypothesis that a dentoalveolar compensatory mechanism is absent in children with still unexpressed vertical growth potential.
Influence of first premolars extraction on vertical dimension in Italian patients with a Class I normo-divergent malocclusion. A retrospective study.	The purpose of this study was to examine the changes in vertical dimension occurring in Class I non-growing patients treated with first four premolars extraction and to test the hypothesis that the vertical dimension collapses after four first premolars extractions.
Perception of facial profile attractiveness of different antero-posterior and vertical proportions.	This study investigated the influence of changing the antero-posterior (AP) and vertical proportions of the lower face on the rankings of facial attractiveness. Four hundred and fifty-four (219 males and 235 females) native Jordanians of various ages and professions rated the attractiveness of a sequence of antero-posteriorly and vertically altered male and female profile images. Attractiveness ranking scores were obtained from the visual assessment of these digitally altered male and female profile images that represented a range of AP and vertical lower facial proportions. The mean and standard deviation (SD) for the rank scores were calculated. Statistical analyses were employed for comparison between the different age groups, genders, and professions. A Class I male profile with a normal lower face height and Class I female profile with a reduced lower face height were ranked as the most attractive. Class II male and female profiles with increased lower face heights were ranked as least attractive. As the vertical and AP dimensions diverged from normal, attractiveness decreased. Images with Class II profile features and increased lower face heights were considered less attractive than corresponding images with Class III profile features and reduced lower face heights. Gender had a limited influence on the perception of attractiveness. A significant difference was found between dentists and lay people in the perception of profile attractiveness.
Did you know? A question and answer dialogue for the orofacial myologist.	This article addresses selected concepts and procedures related to orofacial myology in a question and answer format. Topics include tongue-tip placement for swallowing; a masseter-contraction swallow; temporary anchorage devices utilized in orthodontic treatment; relapse following orthodontic treatment; some advantages and disadvantages of fixed and removable orthodontic appliances; the extraction of teeth in orthodontic treatment; posterior and anterior crossbite considerations; and the importance of recasting the emphasis and focus of myofunctional therapy to orofacial rest posture therapy. In addition, this article promotes projects that orofacial myologists and orthodontists can mutually undertake to assist in advancing the data base regarding orofacial myofunctional disorders, thereby serving to enhance the reputation and value of orofacial myofunctional therapy within the dental profession.
Effects of retraction of anterior teeth and initial soft tissue variables on lip changes in Japanese adults.	The aim of this study was to examine the effects of retraction of anterior teeth and the initial soft tissue profile variables on upper and lower lip changes in Japanese adults. Pre- and post-treatment cephalometric radiographs of 33 Japanese female adults (aged 23.0±5.0 years), with a Class II division 1 malocclusion, who had two or four first premolars extracted, were evaluated. Lateral cephalograms taken with the lips in a voluntary relaxed position were traced and compared. Nine linear and eight angular measurements were constructed for the hard tissue measurements and 16 linear and 2 angular for the soft tissue measurements. Stepwise multiple regression analysis revealed that the horizontal upper lip position could be explained by the position of the maxillary incisor cervical point and the occlusal plane to SN with a 54 percent contribution ratio, and horizontal lower lip position, maxillary incisor tip position, initial interlabial gap, and aesthetic line to the tip of lower lip with a 51 percent contribution ratio. All parameters employed explained the horizontal position of the upper and lower lip with higher than 96 percent confidence. While the horizontal positions could not be predicted by a limited number of parameters, the vertical positions of lips could be explained by three parameters with higher than 62 percent confidence. The predictability found in this study could be beneficial for orthodontists in treatment planning.
Treatment of ankylosed maxillary central incisors by single-tooth dento-osseous osteotomy and alveolar bone distraction.	When tooth ankylosis occurs in growing children, the ankylosed tooth fails to erupt and gradually positions itself below the occlusal plane. This causes functional and esthetic problems, and orthodontic treatment is often impossible. To clarify this problem, we developed a new treatment protocol for the movement of ankylosed teeth. This consists of single-tooth dento-osseous osteotomy and alveolar bone distraction using orthodontic multibracket appliances. A special distraction device is not required, thus reducing the burden to patients. Two cases in which an ankylosed maxillary central incisor was successfully treated with this protocol are presented.
A mixed longitudinal anthropometric study of craniofacial growth of Colombian mestizos 6-17 years of age.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate the craniofacial growth of Colombian mestizos. Four age cohorts, including a total of 458 children and adolescents (262 males and 216 females), were included in this mixed-longitudinal study. The cohorts were first measured at ages 6, 9, 12, and 15 and every year thereafter for 3 years. Eight anthropometric measurements were taken, including three cranial (head perimeter, head width, and head length), two craniofacial (maxillary and mandibular length), and three facial (face height, bizygomatic width, and bigonial width). Multilevel analyses showed that all dimensions increased between 6 and 17 years of age. The cranium grew less than the craniofacial, which in turn grew less than the facial dimensions. In addition, vertical dimensions showed more growth than antero-posterior dimensions, which in turn grew more than transverse dimensions. None of the measurement showed statistically significant growth differences between subjects with normal occlusion and Class I or Class II malocclusions. Males were generally larger than females and showed greater growth rates. Except for facial width, whose yearly velocities decreased regularly with age, an adolescent growth spurt was evident for most of the male measurements. Yearly velocities for females followed a simpler decelerating pattern. The results provide reference data for Colombian mestizos, for whom normative data of other ethnic groups are not applicable. While occlusion had little or no effect, there were gender differences, as well as important growth differences between cranial and facial measurements.
Determination of vertical dimension of occlusion in dentate patients by cephalometric analysis--pilot study.	The concept of vertical dimension of occlusion (VDO) refers to a measure in the vertical plane that establishes the relation between the maxilla and the mandible when the posterior teeth, both from the maxillary and from the mandibular arches, are occluded, regardless of whether they are natural or prosthetic, healthy or restored. This measure is subject to change, and when this occurs, it can compromise both the function and the facial aesthetics. This study proposed to develop a methodology based on cephalometric analysis by studying the 31 lateral teleradiographs of adult, dentate individuals to determine the VDO, based on bone structures that are not dependent on the presence or absence of posterior teeth. The final goal was to make this application accessible to individuals who have undergone alterations of the lower portion of the face.
Simplifying prosthetic procedures while converting an interim maxillary removable complete denture to an interim implant-supported fixed complete denture.	This article describes a method of converting an interim maxillary removable complete denture to an interim implant-supported fixed complete denture. The advantages of this method are that it provides the opportunity to evaluate the patient's function and esthetics, and helps the accurate transfer of the maxillomandibular relationship to the laboratory. Consequently, the fabrication of the definitive prostheses is accurate, and the final result is predictable.
Soft tissue profile changes after rapid maxillary expansion with a bonded expander.	The aim of this study was to evaluate the short- and long-term treatment effects of rapid maxillary expansion (RME) on the soft tissue facial profile of subjects treated with a modified acrylic-hyrax device. The sample comprised 10 males and 10 females in the mixed dentition. Their average age was 9.3 years ± 10 months pre-treatment (T1), with a narrow maxilla and posterior crossbite, treated with a modified fixed maxillary expander with an occlusal splint. Lateral cephalometric radiographs obtained at T1, immediately post-expansion (T2), and after retention (T3) were used to determine possible changes in the soft tissue facial profile. The means and standard deviations for linear and angular cephalometric measurements were analysed statistically using analysis of variance and Tukey's test (α = 0.05). The measurements at T2 differed significantly from those at T1 and T3. However, RME did not produce any statistically significant alteration (P > 0.05) in the soft tissue profile for any of the cephalometric landmarks evaluated when compared at T1 and T3. The use of a fixed expander associated with an occlusal splint did not cause significant alterations in the soft tissue facial profile at T3. This modified device is effective for preventing the adverse vertical effects of RME such as an increase anterior face height in patients with a crossbite.
Oromandibular dystonia treatment following a loss of vertical dimension.	Oromandibular dystonia is a rare condition of hyperkinetic motor dysfunction in the orofacial area. It is a centrally mediated disorder of unknown aetiology and manifested by a sustained contraction of masticatory muscles, involving one or both lateral pterygoids, and pushing the mandible forward. The prognosis is poor and the treatment is symptomatic. This paper describes a case of a 38-year-old woman referred for a locked left TMJ who was diagnosed as having an oromandibular dystonia. A step-by-step diagnosis and treatment procedure is described.
Craniofacial features of subjects with adenoid, tonsillar, or adenotonsillar hypertrophy.	To analyze the craniofacial features in children with adenoid hypertrophy, tonsillar hypertrophy, and adenotonsillar hypertrophy.
Rehabilitation of a malocclusion with an onlay removable partial denture in a patient with ankylosing spondylitis: a case report.	This case report describes the prosthetic rehabilitation of a patient with ankylosing spondylitis who presented with a malocclusion due to the unfavorable reduction of a mandibular fracture following a traffic accident. The residual malocclusion was successfully corrected with a maxillary removable partial denture and a mandibular onlay removable partial denture.
Rehabilitation of amelogenesis imperfecta using a reorganized approach: a case report.	Amelogenesis imperfecta is a genetic disorder that causes defective enamel development in both the primary and permanent dentitions. Significant tooth structure damage often results in various pulpal symptoms, occlusal disharmony, impaired function, and esthetic disfigurement. These problems pose great challenges to the clinician when rehabilitating patients with amelogenesis imperfecta. This case report describes an uncomplicated and logical way to reorganize, temporize, and completely restore an extensively damaged dentition caused by amelogenesis imperfecta.
Diagnosis and esthetic functional rehabilitation of a patient with amelogenesis imperfecta.	Amelogenesis imperfecta is a hereditary disease that causes structural anomalies in dental enamel of both the primary and permanent dentition. The anomaly may present a variety of clinical forms and appearances, with its main characteristics being the loss of tooth structure, compromised esthetic appearance, and dental sensitivity. The aim of this study was to present the clinical report of a 16-year-old patient with severely compromised esthetics as a result of amelogenesis imperfecta of the hypocalcified type who was rehabilitated with composite resin and ceramic crowns.
Changes in facial morphology after adenotonsillectomy in mouth-breathing children.	Morphological and dentofacial alterations have been attributed to impaired respiratory function.
Effect of double flasking and investing methods on artificial teeth movement in complete dentures processing.	The aim of this study was to evaluate linear dimensional alterations of artificial teeth for complete dentures when using different investment and flasking techniques.
Soft-tissue characteristics of operated unilateral complete cleft lip and palate patients in mixed dentition.	The purpose of the study was to provide quantitative information about the facial soft-tissue characteristics of operated unilateral complete cleft lip and palate (UCCLP) children compared with healthy children during mixed dentition.
Implementation and experience of a new method for posterior vertical bite reconstruction using direct resin composite restorations in the private practice--a survey.	The purpose of the present survey was to evaluate the implementation and experience of a new method for posterior vertical bite reconstruction using direct resin composite restorations by private practitioners who attended a hands-on continuing education course on this technique.
Developing skeletal Class III malocclusion treated nonsurgically with a combination of a protraction facemask and a multiloop edgewise archwire.	For a girl, aged 12 years 3 months, with a skeletal Class III malocclusion, negative overjet, severe maxillary crowding, and hyperdivergent pattern, orthognathic surgery combined with orthodontic treatment is often the treatment of choice, because it can greatly improve the patient's facial profile and ensure the long-term stability of the results. However, because of high risks and treatment expenses, patients sometimes refuse to have surgery. We report a nonsurgical combination therapy including facemask and multiloop edgewise archwires and the outcome for a patient with a developing skeletal Class III malocclusion and a long anterior facial height. Treatment included advancement of the maxilla by orthopedic means and counterclockwise rotation of the mandibular occlusal plane by the orthodontic dentoalveolar compensation of distal en-masse movement of the mandibular dentition.
Evaluation of the occlusion vertical dimension of complete dentures after microwave disinfection.	An increase in occlusal vertical dimension (OVD) after microwave disinfection may result in the need for adjustments in the complete dentures. This in vitro study evaluated the increase in OVD of maxillary complete dentures submitted to microwave disinfection protocols.
Stability after mandibular setback: mandible-only versus 2-jaw surgery.	The objective of this study was to evaluate whether changes in the technique for mandibular setback surgery since the introduction of rigid internal fixation have improved postoperative stability in Class III correction with setback alone and 2-jaw surgery.
Mouth breathing children and cephalometric pattern: does the stage of dental development matter?	To test the hypothesis that there is no difference in the cephalometric pattern between mouth breathing children with primary dentition and mixed dentition.
"Rules of 10"--guidelines for successful planning and treatment of mandibular edentulism using dental implants.	The three "Rules of 10" for treatment planning dental implant therapy in the edentulous mandible are designed to improve the success of both the endosseous implants and the prosthesis. These "rules" acknowledge and provide a method to control the mechanical environment, addressing factors affecting implant and prosthesis longevity, including magnitude of forces, resistance of the prosthesis against these forces, and the biology of bone and its ability to respond to loading environments. The rules specify that for any IRO or ISFP, there must be a minimum of 10 mm of alveolar dimension (inferior/superior) and a minimum of 10 mm of interocclusal (restorative) dimension measured from the soft-tissue ridge crest to the occlusal plane. Additionally, for an ISFP, the anterior/posterior distribution of implants must be greater than 10 mm. This article provides support in the literature for these rules and illustrates their application in the treatment of mandibular edentulism.
Use of additive dentistry decreases risk by minimizing reduction.	This case required enhancement of esthetics and reduction of long-term risk of pathologic tooth wear and decay, as well as minimizing erosion caused by innate and environmental influences. The author weighed patient expectations, diet, treatment of teeth, and age to create a treatment plan that would conserve tooth structure while accomplishing the goals of the case. The patient's dentition was restored utilizing intact enamel, adhesive dentistry, and etchable ceramic materials that require less than 1 mm of occlusal reduction without a significant loss of strength. In this case, opening the vertical dimension of occlusion--which was done to increase the height of both the maxillary and mandibular arches, in keeping with the patient's esthetic desires--eliminated the need to remove excessive amounts of healthy tooth structure and facilitated treatment of the occlusal dysfunction.
Protraction of mandibular second and third molars into missing first molar spaces for a patient with an anterior open bite and anterior spacing.	In a young woman, aged 18 years 8 months, who had an anterior open bite and anterior spacing, the right and left mandibular first molar extraction spaces were closed by protraction of the second and third molars without reciprocal retraction of the incisors and the premolars. The amounts of protraction for the second molars were 12 mm on the right side and 11 mm on the left side. Two miniscrews were inserted into the mesiobuccal side of the edentulous spaces, and 2 more screws were inserted into the anterior sites after removing previous miniscrews. In addition, 4 miniscrews were inserted into the buccal and palatal sides between the first and second maxillary molars to intrude the maxillary posterior teeth, which had extruded into the missing mandibular spaces. Careful biomechanical consideration was used to prevent extrusion of the molars and worsening of the anterior open bite from protraction of the posterior teeth. Ultimately, the anterior open bite was corrected by both intrusion of the maxillary molars and extrusion of the maxillary anterior teeth. Excellent occlusion and correction of the anterior open bite were achieved without tipping, rotation of the posterior teeth, or other problems. The right mandibular third molar, which had been impacted at the beginning of treatment, erupted into the second molar space and functioned properly. At the 1-year follow-up examination, the patient had a slight anterior open bite, but closure of the first molar extraction spaces was well maintained.
Application of cephalometric analysis for determination of vertical dimension of occlusion--a literature review]	Optimal reconstruction of vertical dimension of occlusion is crucial for functional and physiognomic rehabilitation of edentulous patients. This article is aimed at presenting attitudes and studies on application of cephalometric analysis in obtaining optimal vertical dimension of occlusion. The review of literature presents the studies which analyse the possibilities of cephalometric analysis aimed at improving the clinical methods for vertical dimension of occlusion determination in treatment of edentulous patients. The research carried out so far can roughly be divided into: cephalometric vertical dimension of occlusion evaluation in dentulous patients performed to determine precise indicators of vertical dimension of occlusion and to establish cephalometric standards for practical application in prosthodontics; the method of producing pre-extraction cephalometric registries involves the production of cephalometric radiographs for potential prosthodontic patients in dental pre-extraction period which are kept for reference to be used in later therapy; the cephalometric method of registering the position of physiologic rest position of the mandible involves measuring cephalometric parameters in cephalometric radiographs made when the mandible is in physiologic rest position; cephalometric evaluation of vertical dimension of occlusion in complete denture therapy after clinical determination of intemaxillary relationship is recommended for timely detection of possible mistakes, with a possibility of correction in the process of complete denture production; and cephalometric analysis in edentulous patients with old complete dentures for a planned vertical dimension of occlusion extension.
Restoration of a severely eroded dentition.	A method is presented to restore severely eroded dentition. Due to the complexity of the case, many facets of restorative dentistry and orthodontics were used in the treatment plan. By following the basic principles described, general dentists can perform this type of restorative therapy.
Therapeutic thoughts on the treatment of sequellae of labial-alveolar-palatal clefts in adult patients-part 2.	With a worldwide incidence of 1/750 live births, facial clefts rank as the second most frequent congenital malformation. The term "sequelae" is used here to designate the conditions, which follow and are the result of labial-alveolar-palatal clefts. Most sequelae stem in fact from primary treatment and not from the initial malformation. However, there is no consensus regarding a management protocol. Among the 201 European centers treating this type of malformation, 194 different protocols are used for unilateral facial clefts alone! Unfortunately, primary surgery can trigger a wide range of harmful repercussions. It is for this reason that secondary surgery is called for, generally after the adolescent growth spurt. The aim is to correct the damage done by primary surgery, which can affect the nose, lips, teeth and jaws and impact functions such as speech, breathing and swallowing, as well as morphological and psychological development. Nonetheless, the children concerned are sometimes lost to treatment only to re-emerge in adulthood, aware of the resultant defects and looking for facial esthetic improvement. The sequelae of labial-alveolar-palatal clefts take very different clinical forms according to whether the cleft has been treated or not and the type and timing of the procedures performed. The surgeon's experience will be paramount in the management of such cases, which draws heavily upon dento-maxillo-facial orthopedics. In this context, we intend, in this paper, to propose modalities for the management of labial-alveolar-palatal clefts supported by information currently available in the literature. Management of labial-alveolar-palatal clefts requires an interdisciplinary rather than the only multidisciplinary approach. The practitioner coordinating the management must, like an orchestra conductor, ensure both the rhythm and the tempo of the treatment. The rhythm will determine the choice of chronological protocol and the tempo will govern the timing and importance given to each of the specialists involved. Practices vary from country to country but the orthodontist may be called on to assume this responsibility.
Impact of rehabilitation with metal-ceramic restorations on oral health-related quality of life.	Dental ceramics present excellent ability to reproduce the natural teeth regarding esthetic and biomechanics. Recently, due to the advancement of ceramic technology, metal-free restorations were developed. However, the traditional metal-ceramic restorations still present the requirements of high strength, long survival in the oral environment and favorable aesthetics. In this context, it is essential to know the specificity of each ceramic system available in order to apply it properly to various clinical situations. This report describes an integrated rehabilitation using metal-ceramic restorations of a patient at 50 years of age, who presented edentulous spaces, and previous unsatisfactory composite and amalgam restorations, and indirect metallic restorations, leading to compromised quality of life in both functional and psychosocial aspects. The impact on quality of life was measured using a generic instrument, OHIP-14, validated for the World Health Organization, which covers both the biological and the psychosocial dimensions. This instrument was applied to the patient before and after treatment. The patient had an overall OHIP-14 score of 28 before the treatment and after treatment the score decreased to 0, showing that dental and oral health conditions are factors that do impact on the quality of life. Rehabilitation has provided functional and aesthetic restorations, harmony of the stomatognathic system and improvement of life quality.
Accelerated treatment protocols: full arch treatment with interim and definitive prostheses.	With the advent of titanium, root form implants and osseointegration, dental treatment has undergone a metamorphosis in recent years. These new techniques enable dentists to provide anchorage for various kinds of prostheses that improve masticatory function, esthetics, and comfort for patients. Implant treatment protocols have been improved relative to implant macro- and micro-geometries, surgical and prosthetic components, and treatment times. Over the past 20 years, immediate occlusal function (also known as loading) has been established as a predictable treatment modality, provided certain specific criteria are met. In many cases, edentulous patients, crippled by the loss of their teeth, can undergo outpatient surgical and prosthetic procedures and return to a masticatory function that is near normal--sometimes after only one day of surgical and prosthetic treatment. This treatment option is also available for patients with advanced, generalized periodontal disease.  Computer-assisted design/Computer-assisted manufacturing (CAD/CAM) has transformed how dental prostheses are made, offering improved accuracy, longevity, and biocompatibility; along with reduced labor costs and fewer complications than casting technologies.  This article reviews the principles associated with immediate occlusal loading and illustrates one specific accelerated prosthodontic treatment protocol used to treat edentulous and partially edentulous patients with interim and definitive prostheses.
Sequential provisional implant prosthodontics therapy.	The fabrication and long-term use of first- and second-stage provisional implant prostheses is critical to create a favorable prognosis for function and esthetics of a fixed-implant supported prosthesis. The fixed metal and acrylic resin cemented first-stage prosthesis, as reviewed in Part I, is needed for prevention of adjacent and opposing tooth movement, pressure on the implant site as well as protection to avoid micromovement of the freshly placed implant body. The second-stage prosthesis, reviewed in Part II, should be used following implant uncovering and abutment installation. The patient wears this provisional prosthesis until maturation of the bone and healing of soft tissues. The second-stage provisional prosthesis is also a fail-safe mechanism for possible early implant failures and also can be used with late failures and/or for the necessity to repair the definitive prosthesis. In addition, the screw-retained provisional prosthesis is used if and when an implant requires removal or other implants are to be placed as in a sequential approach. The creation and use of both first- and second-stage provisional prostheses involve a restorative dentist, dental technician, surgeon, and patient to work as a team. If the dentist alone cannot do diagnosis and treatment planning, surgery, and laboratory techniques, he or she needs help by employing the expertise of a surgeon and a laboratory technician. This team approach is essential for optimum results.
Effect of primary correction of nasal septal deformity in complete unilateral cleft lip and palate on the craniofacial morphology.	To assess the long-term effect of primary correction of the nasal septum during lip repair in unilateral complete cleft lip and palate on the craniofacial morphology.
Genetic stretching factors in masseter muscle after orthognathic surgery.	Up to 30% of patients relapse after orthognathic operations, and one reason might be incomplete neuromuscular adaptation of the masticatory muscles. Displacement of the mandible in sagittal or vertical directions, or both, leads to stretching or compression of these muscles. The aim of this study was to analyse stretching factors in 35 patients with retrognathism or prognathism of the mandible (Classes II and III). Tissue samples were taken from both sides of the masseter muscle (anterior and posterior) both before and 6 months after operation. Developmental myosin heavy chains MYH3 and MYH8, the fast and slow MYH 1, 2, and 7, and cyclo-oxygenase (COX) 2, forkhead transcription factor (FOX)O3a, calcineurin, and nuclear factor of activated T cells (NFAT)1c (stretching and regeneration-specific), were analysed by real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Correlations of Class II and III with sagittal and vertical cephalometric measurements ANB and ML-NL-angle were examined, and the results showed significant differences in amounts of MYH8 (p<0.05), MYH1 (p<0.05), and FOXO3a (p<0.05) between the 2 groups. Regeneration factor COX2 is more dominant in Class II. Surgically, bite opening (ML/NL angle) correlated with stretching indicators FOXO3a, calcineurin, and NFAT1c only in Class II patients. This means that stretching of the masseter muscle caused by lengthening of the mandible and raising of the bite in Class II patients was more likely to lead to relapse (similar to that in patients with open bite) than in Class III patients. In conclusion, deep bite should be reduced more by incisor intrusion than by skeletal opening. The focus in these patients should be directed towards physiotherapeutic strengthening of the muscles of mastication, and more consideration should be given to change in the vertical dimension. 
A lateral cephalometric x-ray study of selected vertical dimensions in children with atypical deglutition.	Atypical deglutition (tongue thrust swallowing) has been thought by some to be an etiological factor related to dental malocclusion, especially changes related to excessive increase in vertical facial growth. The purpose of this study was to investigate this possible relationship between atypical deglutition and vertical facial growth by documenting the lower, middle and upper facial areas of children with atypical deglutition. 55 lateral cephalometric radiographs were analyzed and measured in each of two groups of subjects according to standardized facial plane angles between the (I) palatal plane and mandibular plane, (II) palatal plane and occlusal plane, (III) mandibular plane and occlusal plane, (IV) skull base and Frankfurt plane, and (V) mandibular angle. The experimental group was comprised of 55 subjects with atypical deglutition, while 55 subjects with normal swallowing were used as a control group. The linear/angular measurements were subjected to Mann-Whitney statistical test with a significance level of 5%.
Magnetic resonance imaging-verified temporomandibular joint disk displacement in relation to sagittal and vertical jaw deformities.	This retrospective study was designed to analyze the relationships between temporomandibular joint (TMJ) disk displacement and skeletal deformities in orthodontic patients. Subjects consisted of 460 adult patients. Before treatment, lateral cephalograms and TMJ magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were recorded. Subjects were divided into six groups based on TMJ MRI according to increasing severity of TMJ disk displacement, in the following order: bilateral normal TMJs, unilateral disk displacement with reduction (DDR) and contralateral normal, bilateral DDR, unilateral disk displacement without reduction (DDNR) and contralateral normal, unilateral DDR and contralateral DDNR, and bilateral DDNR. Subjects were subdivided sagittally into skeletal Class I, II, and III deformities based on the ANB (point A, nasion, point B) angle and subdivided vertically into hypodivergent, normodivergent, and hyperdivergent deformities based on the facial height ratio. Linear trends between severity of TMJ disk displacement and sagittal or vertical deformities were analyzed by Cochran-Mantel-Haenszel test. The severity of TMJ disk displacement increased as the sagittal skeletal classification changed from skeletal Class III to skeletal Class II and the vertical skeletal classification changed from hypodivergent to hyperdivergent. There were no significant differences in the linear trend of TMJ disk displacement severity between the sexes according to the skeletal deformities. This study suggests that subjects with skeletal Class II and/or hyperdivergent deformities have a high possibility of severe TMJ disk displacement, regardless of sex. 
The effect of tongue position and resulting vertical dimension on masticatory muscle activity. A cross-sectional study.	The purpose of this study was to: (a) compare the tonic electromyographic (EMG) activity of the temporalis and masseter muscles between two tongue positions, (b) compare the vertical dimension (VD) resulting from each tongue position and (c) determine the influence of the VD on the tonic EMG activity for each tongue position. Thirty-three healthy dental students with natural dentition and bilateral molar support, between the ages of 18 and 22 years, with no prior history of oro-facial injury, or current or past pain in the jaw, mouth, or tongue participated in the study. Tonic masseteric and temporalis EMG activities were recorded using surface electrodes. Subjects were instructed to passively place the tongue either on the anterior hard palate or in the floor of the mouth. At each tongue position, the resulting EMG and VD were recorded. No significant difference in EMG activity was found for either the masseter (P-value = 0·5376) or temporalis muscle (P-value = 0·7410), between the two tongue positions. However, there was a significant difference in the VD resulting from the two different tongue positions, being greater with the tongue placed in the floor of the mouth. There was no statistically significant correlation between VD and EMG activity for both tongue positions. In spite of the lack of difference in the effect of both tongue positions on the masseteric and temporalis EMG activity, an increment of the VD was registered for the floor of mouth-tongue position. However, VD was not correlated with EMG activity for both tongue positions.
Upper spine morphology in hypophosphatemic rickets and healthy controls: a radiographic study.	The aim of this study was to describe upper spine morphology in adult patients with hypophosphatemic rickets (HR) compared with controls to assess differences in spine morphology in terms of severity of skeletal impact and to study associations between spine morphology and craniofacial morphology.
Midpalatal miniscrews and high-pull headgear for anteroposterior and vertical anchorage control: cephalometric comparisons of treatment changes.	Our aim was to evaluate which anchorage system is better suited for both anteroposterior and vertical anchorage control of maxillary posterior teeth.
Sagittal and vertical aspects of Class II division 1 subjects according to the respiratory pattern.	The teeth position, specially maxillary and mandibular incisors, in relation to basal bone and surrounding soft tissues must be considered in the elaboration of diagnosis, treatment planning and execution to obtain alignment, leveling, intercuspation, facial balance and harmony with stability of results.
Influence of age and vertical facial type on the location of the mandibular foramen.	A successful inferior alveolar nerve block anesthesia necessitates knowledge of the exact location of the mandibular foramen. The aim of this study was to determine whether the location of the mandibular foramen is related to the age or the vertical facial morphology of the patient.
A prospective controlled evaluation of Class II division 1 malocclusions treated with fixed lingual mandibular growth modificator.	To assess the net dentofacial effects of the fixed lingual mandibular growth modificator (FLMGM).
The relationship of vertical skeletofacial morphology to oropharyngeal airway shape using cone beam computed tomography: possible implications for airway restriction.	To determine if the shape of the oropharyngeal airway is related to the vertical morphology of the skeletofacial complex, including the hyoid bone.
Orthodontic soft-tissue parameters: a comparison of cone-beam computed tomography and the 3dMD imaging system.	Orthodontists rely heavily on soft-tissue analysis to determine facial esthetics and treatment stability. The aim of this retrospective study was to determine the equivalence of soft-tissue measurements between the 3dMD imaging system (3dMD, Atlanta, Ga) and the segmented skin surface images derived from cone-beam computed tomography.
Long-term mandibular skeletal and dental effects of standard edgewise treatment.	The purpose of this investigation was to examine the effect of Tweed edgewise treatment on the expression of mandibular growth in the horizontal direction through maintenance of vertical control.
Three-dimensional analysis of maxillary changes associated with facemask and rapid maxillary expansion compared with bone anchored maxillary protraction.	Our objectives in this study were to evaluate in 3 dimensions the growth and treatment effects on the midface and the maxillary dentition produced by facemask therapy in association with rapid maxillary expansion (RME/FM) compared with bone-anchored maxillary protraction (BAMP).
Stability of mandibular setback surgery with and without presurgical orthodontics.	The purpose of this study was to compare stability after mandibular setback surgery in patients with skeletal Class III malocclusion with and without presurgical orthodontics.
Fabricating complete dentures with CAD/CAM technology.	Conventional complete denture prosthetics require several appointments to register the maxillomandibular relationship and evaluate the esthetics. The fabrication of milled complete dental prostheses with digital scanning technology may decrease the number of appointments. The step-by-step method necessary to obtain impressions, maxillomandibular relation records, and anterior tooth position with an anatomic measuring device is described. The technique allows the generation of a virtual denture, which is milled to exact specifications without the use of conventional stone casts, flasking, or processing techniques. 
Information for patients undergoing treatment for toothwear with resin composite restorations placed at an increased occlusal vertical dimension.	Toothwear is affecting increasing numbers of the population. In the past, treatment of patients whose teeth were affected by toothwear often involved the reduction of these teeth for crowns; a severe form of toothwear. Contemporary management of such cases is by the bonding of resin composite restorations to the worn and wearing surfaces, with these restorations being placed at an increased occlusal vertical dimension. The advantage of the technique is its minimal- or non-intervention nature and its high reported degree of patient satisfaction. There are, however, short-term disadvantages to the technique, such as the potential for lisping, pain from the teeth which will be subject to axial orthodontic tooth movement, and difficulty in chewing on the posterior teeth if these are discluded. It is therefore important, as with any treatment, that the advantages and disadvantages are fully explained to the patient. This paper therefore describes the clinical technique and presents a Patient Information Leaflet that the author has used for over five years.
Dentoskeletal effects of Twin Block and Herbst appliances in patients with Class II division 1 mandibular retrognathy.	The aim of this study is to evaluate dentoskeletal effects of Herbst and Twin Block (TB) appliance therapies in Skeletal Class II malocclusion.
Temporomandibular joint involvement in a cohort of patients with Juvenile Idiopatic Arthritis and evaluation of the effect induced by functional orthodontic appliance: clinical and radiographic investigation.	The aim of the study was to assess possible correlations between the clinical parameters of temporomandibular joint (TMJ) arthritis and pathologic MRI findings of the TMJ in patients affected by juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA), and the effect of a functional orthodontic therapy on the evolution of TMJ disorders.
The physiology of splint therapy: a literature review.	The clinician must frequently make treatment decisions with limited knowledge of the appropriateness and consequences of the different options. Patients have specific expectations: that the treatment they receive is the usual one, that they have been informed of the alternatives and the consequences, and most importantly that the treatment has a reasonable chance of success. In TMJ therapy, as with most treatments, the patient's improvement is closely connected to a proper diagnosis based on sound physiologic principles. This investigation will review four basic splint types and discuss their success in the resolution of various temporomandibular disorders. Since the position of the condyle-disc-fossa, the occlusal contact pattern and the masticatory muscle dynamics are interrelated, this study will focus on the physiologic changes splints may cause with modification of this tooth, joint and muscle relationship. Hopefully, selection of a specific splint design appropriate to the patient's disorder will be facilitated by better understanding of its physiologic and therapeutic effects.
Use of the Preci-Horix attachment in anchoring an overlay denture]	In the case report the overdenture prosthesis replacing the subtotal edentulousness is fixed by a Preci-Horix anchorage of individual design built on the tooth roots. The matrix portion of the anchorage was built in situ into the tooth plate of the denture. This aimes at preventing the disadvantageous overloading effect of the position change due to initial sinking of the denture on the support tooth.
Comparative study on 4.cephalometric measurements for the demonstration of the sagittal intermaxillary relation with special reference to Swiss health insurance criteria]	For 4 cephalometric criteria (the angles ANB and AB-OCC and the distances AFH-BFH and "Wits"), which all are measured to show the relation between the maxilla and the mandible (i.e. the A- and B-points), average values, standard errors, standard deviations and errors of the method were determined in a sample of 298 schoolchildren of Zurich, who were selected on the basis of their date of birth only. It could be demonstrated that the angle ANB is dependent on both the angle SNA and NA to Frankfort horizontal, and that this dependence is linear. The angle AB to occlusal plane however seems to be independent of the relation between the A-point and the Nasion. Both ANB and AB-OCC could be determined with the same accuracy.
3-dimensional supporting pivot for the determination of a painless mandibular position]	A three dimensional adjustable supporting system is described which is useful in achieving a trouble-free mandibular position in asymmetrical myoarthropathies. The reproducible adjustment of the supporting point makes it possible to compare different favourable positions of the condyle with least expenditure of technique and time. The description is supplemented by a case report.
Incisor edge-centroid relationships and overbite depth.	Interincisor angulation is commonly held to be a critical factor in determining overbite depth, where there is incisor contact. In this study significant correlations between these variables were found in Class II, division 2 malocclusions although interincisor angle explained less than a third of the variance in overbite depth. It was found that the anteroposterior relationship of the lower incisor edge to the upper incisor root centroid is more strongly related to overbite depth and it is suggested that this is a useful factor to take into account in planning treatment in Class II cases.
Facial growth after treatment of unilateral temporomandibular joint ankylosis in childhood without growth centre transplantation. A serial cephalomorphometric study.	Our aim was to study the influence of early surgical treatment of temporomandibular joint ankylosis on further facial growth and development. At the Department of Maxillo-Facial Surgery, Zurich, 11 children with a unilateral TMJ-ankylosis met the criteria of a maximal preoperative interincisal mouth opening of 15 mm, of a minimal long-term postoperative interincisal mouth opening of 30 mm, and of excellent documentation. 30 anatomical landmarks were defined on the copies of the follow-up cephalograms using the structure-superimposition technique. The points were perforated and digitized. Analysis and graphic-plotting were followed by computer. The hypothesis that mandibular growth continues once the ankylosis was successfully treated (without transplantation of a growth centre) and mandibular function definitely restored, was confirmed. The treatment does normalize the growth rate, but it seems that abnormal growth patterns cannot be influenced by it. As a consequence, the surgical release of the ankylosis should be performed as early as possible.
Integumental profile changes after surgical orthodontic correction of bimaxillary dentoalveolar protrusion in black patients.	An investigation was undertaken to evaluate the soft-tissue changes of the lips as a result of dentoalveolar setback procedures performed to reduce bimaxillary dentoalveolar protrusion in black patients. Lateral head films of 14 adult patients taken preoperatively and postoperatively were compared to evaluate soft- and hard-tissue changes. A stepwise regression analysis with hard-tissue changes, initial interlabial gap, lip thickness, and lip area as predictor variables was performed to assess their influence on the change in an associated soft-tissue point. Upper lip thickness and horizontal change in PR accounted for 60% of the horizontal variance in the upper lip at SLS, and horizontal change in PR accounted for 80% of the horizontal variance in LS. Lower lip area accounted only for 28% of the horizontal variance in the lower lip at LI. Vertical changes of the upper lip were small and could not be predicted. Vertical changes of the lower lip were small but predictable: IL and lip thickness accounted for 75% of the vertical variance in the lower lip at ILS, and ID accounted for 58% of the vertical variance in LI.
An evaluation of the relationship between rest position of the mandible and malocclusion.	Rest position of the mandible and integumental change in a control group of Class I occlusions is compared and contrasted with a study group of Class II malocclusion and a study group of Class III malocclusion. Change from centric occlusion to rest position of the mandible was suggestive of simulated correction of the malocclusion and improved facial esthetics.
Stability of the mandible after surgical correction of skeletal class III malocclusion in 50 patients.	Fifty cases of skeletal Class III malocclusion were analyzed by the tracings of presurgical and postsurgical cephalograms to evaluate the stability of the mandible a year after surgery. In 33 patients, the curved oblique osteotomy in the ascending ramus was used; the correction was made in the mandibular body for 17 patients by either the rectangular osteotomy or the sliding osteotomy. Minimal relapse was observed in all three procedures, with the least amount occurring after mandibular body ostectomy or osteotomy. The results were considered to be due to careful determination of the correct time for surgery in each patient to avoid skeletal relapse resulting in continued mandibular growth, prompt osseous healing at the surgical sites by providing close and tight bony contact between the segments, elimination of the effect of the major muscles of mastication, minimum alteration in the position of the posterior segment and trimming of the margin of the anterior segment to form a proper gonial angle, and a stable occlusion with maximum intercuspation and an adequate overbite. In addition, preoperative orthodontic treatment and extraoral traction of the mandible by chin cups were considered effective means to stabilize the post-operative occlusion.
Residual alveolar ridge atrophy: classification and influence of facial morphology.	A method for grading residual alveolar ridge atrophies of edentulous maxillae and mandible has been devised for men and women. Comparisons were made in women and in men between the degree of atrophy and the vertical facial morphology. The study suggests some relationship between the total facial height (TFH), the vertical facial type determined by the Frankfort horizontal mandibular plan (FMA), and the atrophy of the alveolar ridges, especially for the mandible. Certain practical applications of these findings were suggested.
Treatment planning for the management of selected dento-facial abnormalities.	Existing treatment planning aids for the management of dento-facial abnormalities do not adequately assess the neuromuscular status of the oro-facial soft tissues. Where an element of mandibular overclosure exists the patient assessment technique provides a reproducibile and clinically acceptable occlusal vertical dimension of occlusion. In the three cases treated a functional impression technique for establishing the upper lip support produced a reproducible profile which was both aesthetically and functionally satisfactory.
Condylar displacements related to dynamic and static recordings of the comfortable zone.	In a previous study it was found that the distance between the borders of the comfortable zone was considerably wider when the zone was recorded statically rather than dynamically. However, it was not reported how condylar displacements may be related to the zonal borders. Therefore, an attempt is made in the present study to translate zonal border recordings into the equivalent amount of condylar rotation. Using a dental articulator, it was found that the condyles rotated 4.96 degrees, when the comfortable zone was recorded statically, and 2.50 degrees, when the zone was recorded dynamically. The difference, 2.46 degrees, was statistically significant (P less than 0.001).
Intrusion of posterior teeth with magnets. An experiment in growing baboons.	The dental and skeletal effects of occlusal bite blocks with and without repelling magnets are compared; while depression of buccal teeth did not occur with both types of appliance, some less favorable effects were also noted with the magnets.
The stability of the lower labial segment following surgical correction of Class III skeletal discrepancy.	There has been some controversy over the post-operative changes that may take place in tooth position following orthognathic surgery. The present study was designed to observe the changes that take place in the position of the incisors following surgery to correct class III skeletal discrepancies. It was found that the postoperative changes that occur in the axial inclination of the lower incisors are small enough to be clinically insignificant, provided an adequate overbite has been established. Any changes that do occur will probably be associated with a small increase in the mandibular maxillary planes angle, with possibly some upper incisor proclination and reduction of overbite.
Prevalence of tooth agenesis correlated with jaw relationship and dental crowding.	Two groups of patients were selected from the State University Dental School in Ghent--an experimental group with tooth agenesis and a control group with complete dentitions. Skeletal anomalies were diagnosed by means of lateral cephalograms according to the Sassouni analysis. The amount of crowding was measured on standardized photographs by Little's Irregularity Index. The prevalence of Class I skeletal relationship appeared to be significantly higher in the agenesis group than in the control group. Skeletal deep- and normal-bite cases occurred more often in patients with hypodontia than in the control group. As far as crowding was concerned, it was less pronounced in the hypodontia group (lateral segments) than in the control group. This conclusion held true only when the "amount" of crowding was not taken into account.
Condylar retruded contact position and intercuspal position correlation in dentulous patients. Part I: Three-dimensional analysis of condylar registrations.	A three-dimensional condylar analysis of the ICP relative to the RCP was completed for 75 patients by using a system of styli adapted to an arcon articulator. The recorded sagittal condylar positions were seen in three of the four quadrants, the posterior-superior quadrant was devoid of registrations. The percent of registration was approximately equal for the right and left sides; anterior-inferior quadrant, 60%; posterior-inferior quadrant, 30%; and anterior-superior quadrant, 10%. Midcondylar value of the ICP presented the smallest standard deviation but the data concerning condylar position were unreliable because symmetrical and asymmetrical movement may produce similar midcondylar values. Seventy-two percent of the anterior-posterior and 45% of the superior-inferior condylar ICP recordings of patients fell within the range of a dentally healthy sample of young men. Only 2% of recordings the patients were outside this range in a superior direction. These data were nearly equal numerically for the right and left sides and conformed to the anatomic freedom of TMJ. Slightly more than 57% of the sample had an MLD greater than 0.3 mm compared with a dentally healthy sample. There was a 42% greater incidence of skew greater than 0.7 mm and a 22% greater occurrence of tilt greater than 0.7 mm in the dental patient sample, compared with the findings of Hoffman et al. An index ICP asymmetry was proposed that indicates the relative value of skew and tilt in a single quantitative factor. Three mandibular movements were identified, skew and tilt with angular components and MLD, translation. These three movements have 3 degrees of freedom, right or left movement or no movement, resulting in 27 permutations. The combination of these elements make it difficult to determine condylar position from occlusal midline observation.
Recovery of oral opening following sagittal ramus osteotomy for mandibular prognathism.	A review of 40 cases of sagittal splitting of the mandible for reduction of mandibular prognathism showed that maximum oral opening recovered to presurgical limits without the use of mechanical aids. This recovery occurred within nine months following release of maxillomandibular fixation.
Mandibular growth following Le Fort I osteotomy in adolescent monkeys.	Le Fort I osteotomy with anterior and superior repositioning of the maxilla was performed on adolescent Macaca fascicularis monkeys to study its effect on the subsequent growth and remodeling changes of the mandible. Six adolescent Macaca fascicularis monkeys were randomly divided into two surgical groups and eight others served as controls. Group I animals underwent a Le Fort I advancement and Group II animals experienced a Le Fort I advancement and impaction. All monkeys received tantalum implants in the anterior part of the cranial base, on opposite sides of craniofacial sutures and in multiple sites of the maxilla and mandible. The immediate postsurgical occlusion of all experimental animals was a Class II molar relationship. The animals were followed for up to 12 months postoperatively. Analysis of cephalometric head films taken at monthly intervals showed that both the maxilla and the mandible of all experimental monkeys grew in a coordinated fashion, although the amount, rate, and direction of growth varied between control and experimental animals as well as between Group I and Group II animals. The largest increments and rates of growth were observed in the control animals, Group I animals, and Group II animals, respectively. This study indicates that the growth changes in both maxilla and mandible are related to the extent of injury caused by maxillary surgery. The results also showed that although the surgical procedures were performed in the maxilla, mandibular growth was significantly modulated by the surgically changed maxillary environment.
Findings of mandibular movement and the position of the mandibular condyles during maximal mouth opening.	An investigation with respect to position of the mandibular condyles in relation to maximal vertical mouth opening was undertaken. For this purpose, 51 subjects of different nationalities were examined. None of the 51 persons had a TMJ disorder. The mobility of the mandible in different directions was clinically measured. With the use of two different reference lines (Methods A and B), the amount of the movement of the condyle from closed to maximal mouth opening position was measured in the sagittal plane on lateral tomograms. All of the measurements were recorded, and the means, SD, and range of variation were calculated. Statistical analysis was subsequently performed. The clinical results are comparable to those of other previous clinical studies. As seen in the lateral tomograms, the condyle in 41 out of 51 subjects moved beyond the articular eminence during maximal mouth opening. It was occasionally situated higher than the eminence. In only ten subjects, the condyle reached only the top of the articular eminence during maximal mouth opening. A moderate degree of dependency and correlation was found between maximal vertical movement of the mandible and the amount of movement of the right and left condyles from closed to maximal open position of the mouth, as seen in tomograms. None of our subjects had any sign of luxation despite the position of the condyle beyond the articular eminence with maximal mouth opening. Therefore, the diagnosis of condylar luxation cannot be established by radiologic investigation alone.
The orthopantomogram, an aid in diagnosis of temporomandibular joint problems. I. The factor of vertical magnification.	As an orthopantomogram provides bilateral information, it seems to be an efficient tool for screening for arthropathy of craniomandibular disorders. An experimental model was designed and constructed to resemble a human mandible. By changing the position of the model in the horizontal plane of the orthopantomograph, nine different images were analysed for changes of vertical magnifications. Emphasis was put on large parts of the mandible like the condyle. In positions that had been altered less than 10 mm from the originally centred position of the mandible in the orthopantomograph, vertical differences between the left and right sides were less than 6%. Observed condylar asymmetries within a 6% difference might, therefore, be due to technical failures.
The Goslon Yardstick: a new system of assessing dental arch relationships in children with unilateral clefts of the lip and palate.	The Goslon (Great Ormond Street, London and Oslo) Yardstick is a clinical tool that allows categorization of the dental relationships in the late mixed and or early permanent dentition stage into five discrete categories. Cases are allocated to these categories on a value judgment basis by reference to the anchor groups of the Goslon Yardstick. The categorization was sufficiently sensitive to distinguish the treatment results at different centers in this study. It is proposed that the Goslon Yardstick should facilitate cross-center studies.
Arrangement of anatomic-type artificial teeth into balanced occlusion.	The mechanical factors which are involved in the arrangement of anatomic type artificial teeth into balanced occlusion have been described. Many of the mechanical problems encountered during artificial tooth arrangement have been listed, together with suggestions for their solution. Hanau's Laws of Articulation have been utilized in a practical manner in formulating some of the solutions to tooth arrangement problems when establishing balanced occlusion. Trial dentures which present ideal occlusions in the articulator may not always do so when examined in the patient's mouth. Possible reasons for these differences are listed, and methods for making the necessary corrections are described.
A study of the reproducibility of the functional denture space with a dynamic impression technique.	A study was made on four patients to determine the reproducibility of the outer form of the buccal and lingual flanges of a complete lower denture as developed by functional movements of the surrounding tissues. 1. Two dentists participated in the study to find out the operator effect when making impressions for the functional form of the flanges. 2. Two tissue-conditioning impression materials were used to determine if the characteristics of the impression material had any effect on the final form. 3. The impression materials were applied to the denture flanges by two different methods. 4. The impressions were placed in a mitre box, stabilized with plaster, and sectioned in the molar, premolar, and incisor regions. This provided five cut surfaces for measuring. 5. Each section was measured at five to six representative distances. 6. The differences in the flange form measurement and the distances among the impressions made with the same technique and material were small, and the reproducibility can be considered clinically acceptable. 7. There were statistically significant differences in the flange form measurement distances among the different materials and method of application of the material.
The maxillary complete denture opposing the mandibular bilateral distal-extension partial denture: treatment considerations.	The dentist should approach the treatment of the complete maxillary denture opposing the mandibular bilateral distal extension partial denture cautiously, and the institution of correct treatment initiatives is essential. Every patient must be aware from the outset that the longest possible life of any prosthesis with the least possible harm to the remaining tissues can only be ensured by regular recall and maintenance care.
The effect of a partial bite-raising splint on the inclination of upper and lower front teeth.	In a previous paper it was maintained that the effect of the permanent use of an anterior partial bite-raising splint was an intrusion of the front teeth and an eruption of the others. However, the effect might have been merely a change in the inclination of the front teeth. The present study comprised the same material as earlier. Linear and angular changes in the position of upper and lower incisors were measured on cephalometric radiographs. In the upper jaw a possible average proclination occurred, whereas in the lower jaw no or only a very small retroclination took place. The values were well within the method error, and it was concluded that the effect of the splint had been one of intrusion of the upper and lower front teeth and not merely a change in their inclination.
Occlusal dysfunction and stress. An experimental study in macaque monkeys.	A dysfunctional occlusal relationship was produced in six macaca irus monkeys by insertion of occlusal splints which raised the vertical dimension of occlusion by 3--4 mm and incorporated interferences into the occlusion. Cortisol levels of plasma and 24 h urine samples were measured by competitive protein-binding analysis. After insertion of the splints there was an immediate, approximately two-fold rise of the mean 24 h urinary cortisol excretion rate and a significant decrease of urinary volume and body weight. The plasma cortisol level did not rise significantly. During the 3 weeks experimental period the teeth showed increasing mobility and occlusal wear facets developed on the splints. Urinary cortisol excretion rates were significantly elevated throughout the experimental period. Urinary cortisol levels declined to basal values when the splints were removed. This animal model produces experimental evidence in support of the hypothesis that a dysfunctional occlusal relationship may result in bruxism associated with emotional stress.
Pantographic evaluation of cephalometric hinge axis.	Some commercial positioner manufactures supply clear acetate prescription forms for ordering hinge axis-oriented tooth positioners. These prescription froms assume that the patient's hinge axis is located in the "center of the condylar head." The author, suspecting that this generality could not be axiomatic, investigated fifteen persons, using pantographic hinge-axis-locating equipment, and compared the actual "tatto hinge axis" with the center of condyle as seen on lateral cephalograms. According to pantographic findings, there is a greater than 50 percent chance that the terminal hinge axis is located below and behind the cephalometric "center of the condyle."
Interocclusal distance measurement comparing chin and tooth reference points.	In a group of nine dentate students with a mean age of 23.1 years, a comparison of their interocclusal distances was determined using tooth and chin reference points. This determination was made with two reference LEDs, one attached to a lower tooth and the other attached to a point on the chin. These two LEDs were registered simultaneously using the Selspot system and analyzed with the use of a computer. Three different methods were used to establish the interocclusal distance: a phonetic method, a relaxation method, and a swallowing method. Independent of the method selected, there was a greater interocclusal distance recorded by the tooth-attached reference LED. This study indicates that, in the clinical determination of interocclusal distance, where a chin reference is used the dentist should be aware of this difference--especially when lip activity is involved.
Control of the transverse dimension with surgery and orthodontics.	Control of the transverse dimension through surgical techniques now available for use by the orthodontist is a valuable treatment consideration for orthodontic therapy in the nongrowing patient. In this article, proper diagnosis of relative and absolute transverse maxillary deficiency or excess is stressed as being imperative prior to completion of definitive orthodontic and/or surgical treatment planning. Therapeutic alternatives designed to facilitate correction of transverse discrepancies concomitant with treatment objectives in the sagittal and vertical dimensions are discussed and illustrated with case reports.
The bite plate--an adjunct in periodontic and orthodontic therapy.	This report reviews bite plate therapy and describes several variations of bite plates. Bite plates may be useful as an adjunct to periodontic and orthodontic therapy. They may be used as a diagnostic appliance, to take mobile teeth out of trauma by disarticulating them, to allow teeth to extrude and shallow out associated osseous deformities, and to eliminate the superimposed occlusal trauma that may be caused by the parafunctional habits that can develop during orthodontic tooth movement. The change in vertical position of the dentition and the decrease in overbite are primarily due to eruption of the posterior teeth and not intrusion of the lower anterior teeth. The decrease in overbite may be accompanied by an increase in overjet and an alteration of the mesio-distal and bucco-lingual occlusal landmarks. In some cases the use of a bite plate may cause the development of an anterior open bite. Any such occlussal alterations produced by the bite plate should be corrected by occlusal adjustment or orthodontic therapy and occlusal adjustment.
An evaluation of cross-bite ridge relationships. A study of articulated jaw records of 150 edentulous patients.	Data were collected from 150 men and women complete-denture patients. Their jaw records were evaluated with a specially designed instruments. The extent of deviation of the maxillary and the mandibular ridges in the horizontal plane was calculated at various interridge distances, at a constant interalveolar crest-line angle of 80 degrees. It was found that: 1. Most patients of both sexes revealed a normal horizontal ridge relationship. 2. Next to the normal ridge relationship, there was a tendency for a unilateral cross-bite ridge relationship on the left sides of those patients who had recent extractions (up to 6 months previously). 3. True bilateral cross-bite ridge relationships were found only in those patients who gave a history of prolonged edentulousness. 4. The decision to arrange the posterior teeth in normal or cross-bite ridge relationship should take into consideration the deviations in the ridge relationship as well as the interridge distance. A method of evaluating interridge deviations in the horizontal plane in the posterior region of articulated jaw records of edentulous patients was developed.
Increased occlusal vertical dimension in adult monkeys.	Splints which opened the vertical dimensions on all posterior teeth in five rhesus monkeys were studied over a period of 3 to 36 months. Findings were as follows: 1. The increased vertical dimension of occlusion did not have a pathologic effect on the TMJs. 2. The posterior teeth attached to the splint and the teeth opposing the splint were intruded into the alveolar processes. 3. The nonoccluding incisor teeth extruded, but the epithelial attachment remained close to the cementoenamel junction. 4. The vertical dimension as measured between the markers in the bones of the mandible and maxillae gradually returned toward the pretreatment vertical dimension, although complete closure to this position was not accomplished during the time period of the experiment. 5. The relationship between the epithelial attachment and the cementoenamel junction remained undisturbed by the experiment. 6. After completion of growth, there appeared to be a definite tendency for rebound to the normal pretreatment vertical dimension following increase of the vertical dimension. This was recorded by measurable movements of the teeth.
Use of the mandibular staple bone plate with augmentation in bone grafts.	The mandibular staple bone plate is a helpful adjunct to the treatment of advanced mandibular atrophy when augmentation bone grafts are required. The vestibuloplasty procedure can often be eliminated or modified. The patient can be prosthetically rehabilitated sooner and experiences much greater stability than with conventional denture. If instability contributes to bone loss, then the mandibular staple bone plate should decrease the rate of bone loss in these more vulnerable denture patients and subsequently improve the long term results of the augmentation procedures.
Effects of increased vertical dimension on size of constriction port and fricative sound intelligibility.	The effect of increased vertical bite dimension on fricative sound productions was studied in five adults who wore dentures. Oral port size and sound intelligibility were evaluated at different degrees of artificially induced open bite. The data demonstrate that rapid compensatory adjustments occurred and oral port size changed minimally at all degrees of opening tested. However, in three of the subjects, sound intelligibility declined at the 6-mm opening, and in all subjects, a four-fold increase in sound distortions occurred in the edentulous state. This finding suggests the possibility that either physiological parameters are controlled more successfully than acoustical parameters or that compensatory efforts to maintain constrictor size may, under certain circumstances, adversely affect sound intelligibility.
Vertical orbital dystopia--surgical correction.	The surgical correction of vertical malpositions of the human eye has been made relatively safe and reliable by recent surgical techniques. The authors define this condition as vertical orbital dystopia and review the etiology of this deformity in 38 recent consecutive cases that were surgically treated at the Craniofacial Anomalies Center of The University of Virginia. Some new and useful tests are described that are of value to the plastic surgeon in analysis of the facial deformity and in planning the appropriate surgical procedure to correct the vertical dystopia of one or both eyes. Several cases are illustrated that describe the principal surgical methods of moving the eye up or down without loss of vision. The vertical eye shifts in this series have been in the range of 2 to 3 mm to over 22 mm. No loss of vision was produced by these corrections. The most common difficulties and complications of orbital dystopia corrections are described. The implications of this type of surgery in terms of visual physiology are suggested. The authors conclude that surgical correction of vertical orbital dystopias is possible, safe, and rewarding to the patients. However, they advise that the correction is best performed in young children and by a specially trained team of plastic surgeons, neurosurgeons, and ophthalmologists.
The effect of bite-blocks with and without repelling magnets studied histomorphometrically in the rhesus monkey (Macaca mulatta).	The effect of bite-blocks with and without repelling magnets as proposed for the treatment of open bite was analyzed. Twelve male juvenile monkeys were divided into three groups of four. Group A was used as control, group B was given bite-blocks containing samarium cobalt disks, and group C received identical bite-blocks without active magnets. The monkeys were observed for 24 weeks before death. Histomorphometric evaluation was then performed on the molar roots, their periodontal tissues, the zygomaticotemporal suture, and the pterygomaxillary suture. The root surfaces of the molars in both the bite-block group and the magnetic group were characterized by pronounced resorption that sometimes was active and occasionally undergoing repair with bony tissue. The sutures also clearly reflected the effect of both appliances used, although more markedly in the cases of bite-blocks containing active magnets. The surface density expressing the sutural area, was increased significantly, possibly as an adaptation to the altered functional demand. The cellular activity of the sutural surfaces also was increased markedly in both appliance groups, reflecting an ongoing adaptation. A steady state had not been reached. The study demonstrated a widespread effect of the force developed by bite-blocks with and without magnets. The final quantity and the reversibility of the effect is not known, however. More long-term studies should be undertaken to obtain this information.
Treatment of a patient with a mutilated Class II, Division 1 malocclusion and a dolichofacial skeletal pattern.	The purpose of this case report is to present a description of the diagnosis and treatment to ABO standards of a patient with a mutilated Angle's Class II, Division 1 malocclusion, complicated by anterior dental crowding, and a dolichofacial skeletal pattern. Treatment involved extraction of the maxillary first premolars, lingual arches to enhance anchorage, and J-hook headgear to retract the maxillary anterior segments.
Effects of soft tissue and osseous bridge on facial configuration in adults with unilateral cleft lip and palate.	Roentgencephalometric study was used for the assessment of 16 adult males with unilateral cleft lip and palate and an osseous bridge and of 10 males with a soft tissue bridge. They were compared with 32 individuals with a complete cleft and with a control group of 50 normal males. All patients were operated upon and subsequently treated with the same methods. In contrast to the soft bridge, an osseous bridge prevents the reduction of upper face height, and an increased width of the nasal cavity. Both an osseous and a soft tissue bridge exert a favorable effect on the shortening and retrusion of the maxilla and thus also on the maxillo-mandibular relations and on facial configuration. The thickness of the upper lip is related to the presence of a soft bridge, while deviations of the lower jaw and the posterior position of the maxilla are not related to the presence of either type of bridge. Alveolar retroinclination was insignificantly smaller in the presence of both types of bridges. These differences disclosed that clefts with soft bridges cannot be pooled with complete clefts (or with clefts with osseous bridges), when there is not definite evidence of the same proportion of both forms of clefts in the series used for comparison.
Facial asymmetry: type, extent and range of normal values.	For analysis of facial asymmetry (signed, absolute, relative) a group of 720 normal children aged 6-18 years was examined. Twelve direct dimensions measured on both sides of the face were assessed. The results revealed that the extent of facial asymmetry is the same in both sexes and does not change with age. Facial asymmetries have mostly a fluctuating character, usually with slight predominance of the right side. With the help of double standard deviations of signed asymmetry, the range of normal asymmetry for lateral facial dimensions was determined as 4-5 mm. The definition of the borderlines or normal and abnormal asymmetries may be of practical value in some medical disciplines.
Identification and management of tooth wear.	The etiology and treatment of occlusal tooth wear remain controversial. Longer tooth retention by the aging population increases the likelihood that clinicians will be treating patients with worn dentitions. A careful approach to interventional clinical procedures is advocated but should not curtail definitive management of patients having identifiable and potent causative agents that produce a rapid deterioration of the dentition. This article describes the epidemiology and etiology of occlusal wear and presents a conservative approach to its management.
Reproducibility of the speech envelope and interocclusal dimensions in dentate subjects.	This paper describes and compares the mandibular speech envelope and interocclusal dimensions, at the closest speaking and postural positions, for a group of 30 dentate subjects measured at separate data-collecting sessions. Mandibular movement was recorded by electrognathograph during recitation of a general phonetic articulation test containing all speech sounds. Comparison of the speech envelope and interocclusal dimensions between each recording session revealed no significant differences among them. An overall mean value calculated for the closest speaking space and postural interocclusal space from all recordings was significantly different (P > .05), with the closest speaking space the larger; however, considerable individual variation was noted.
Facial and dental anomalies in cleidocranial dysplasia: a study of 17 cases.	Seventeen cases of cleidocranial dysplasia were analysed. On average, there was mandibular prognathism due to increased mandibular length, and a short cranial base. The maxilla was short vertically but not antero-posteriorly. In 13 young subjects followed for an average period of 6 years, more than half of the total number of teeth of each type had not erupted at the normal age, with the exception of mandibular incisors. Twice as many maxillary incisors were delayed compared with those in the lower jaw. Only six of 25 mandibular central incisors were delayed. There was a total of 63 supernumerary teeth in the 13 subjects, mostly occurring in the mandibular premolar and maxillary incisor regions. Many more occurred in the maxillary than in the mandibular incisor region. In the molar regions only six supernumerary teeth were found, five in the upper jaw and one in the lower. Two patients had no supernumerary teeth. One patient showed congenital absence of one mandibular incisor and three premolars.
Vertical ridge augmentation using a membrane technique associated with osseointegrated implants.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate: (1) the surgical protocol, effectiveness, and reliability for vertical ridge augmentation using a new titanium-reinforced membrane and osseointegrated implants; and (2) the histologic characteristics of the interface between a pure titanium implant and newly regenerated human bone. Five patients received 15 conical Brånemark-type implants in six different surgical sites requiring vertical augmentation. The implants protruded 4 to 7 mm from the bone crest. Pure titanium miniscrews (1.3 x 10 mm) were positioned distally to the implants, protruding 3 to 4 mm from the bone level. The implants and the miniscrews were covered with a titanium-reinforced membrane, and the flaps were sutured. Membranes were removed at the stage 2 surgery after 9 months of healing. Measurements of biopsy specimens showed a gain in bone height from 3 to 4 mm. Histologic examination showed that all retrieved miniscrews were in direct contact with bone. Histomorphometric analysis of bone contact gave a mean value of 42.5 +/- 3.6% for five of the six examined miniscrews. The results suggest that the placement of implants protruding 3 to 4 mm from the top of resorbed bone surfaces may result in vertical bone regeneration to the top of the implant cylinder and that the regenerated bone is able to osseointegrate pure titanium implants.
Midface prognathism in maxillonasal dysplasia (Binder's syndrome) determined by a theoretical midface ratio.	A theoretical midface ratio was determined from midface lengths and heights in straight lateral radiographs. Using regression analyses, the ratio was tested on 90 adults who did not have an aberrant anatomy of the maxilla. A linear relationship was found between the theoretical midface ratio and sella-nasion-point A (SNA), and the correlation was high (adjusted R2 = 82.7%). Limit values were determined using the theoretical midface ratio for the classifications of retrognathia, orthognathia, and prognathia. Conditional probabilities were estimated for classifications according to SNA for every classification by the theoretical midface ratio. Eighty percent of the subjects were identically classified by SNA and the theoretical midface ratio, and no subjects were placed differently in the extreme groups of retrognathia and prognathia. The theoretical midface ratio was then used to estimate the degree of prognathism in 35 adults with maxillonasal dysplasia. Less than half of the subjects had maxillary retrognathia, and the majority had an orthognathic or even prognathic maxilla. This is an indication that individualization of treatment objectives, including the consideration of mandibular setback operations to correct incisor crossbites, is equally important in maxillonasal dysplasia and in normal anatomy.
Changes in the temporomandibular joint caused by the vertical facial pattern. Study on an experimental model.	An experimental model reproducing open bite or verticalized facial pattern was used to study its effect on the temporomandibular joints. 140 Wistar rats were used, divided into 3 groups: bilateral resection of the masseteric muscle, simulated muscular resection and control group. A series of radiological, morphological and histological tests were analyzed. The posterior rotation of the jaw caused by muscular resection although not producing a degenerative effect, did produce specific articular changes in the temporomandibular joint components.
Cephalometric alterations following facial advancement surgery. 2. Clinical and computerised evaluation.	Part 1 of this investigation identified an established patient cohort whose treatment is best suited to combined surgical-orthodontic correction of dento-facial deformity. This is as opposed to the attempted correction of the problem by an orthodontics-only or a surgery-only approach. Experienced surgeons will subjectively assess facial aesthetics and devise surgical treatment objectives in terms of the beneficial soft tissue improvements derived from dento-skeletal manipulation. None the less, traditional and soft tissue cephalometric parameters remain a guideline in the diagnostic phase of treatment. Part 2 of this investigation compared pre and postoperative clinical and computerised evaluations of patients diagnosed as having combined mid and lower dento-facial deficiency with Class 1 dento-skeletal parameters.
Clinical ramifications of posterior and anterior facial height changes between treated and untreated Class II samples.	Some clinicians have suggested that one primary difference between successful and unsuccessful Class II treatment outcomes is the relative change of anterior and posterior facial heights. Successfully treated cases are claimed to exhibit greater increases in posterior facial height (PFH, articulare to gonion) than in the anterior facial height (AFH, menton to palatal plane). This conjecture was tested here by recalling a treated Class I sample and a treated Class II sample and by comparing the differences found in these samples to an untreated Class II sample at the same ages. The PFH/AFH ratio increased significantly more in the treated Class I and Class II samples during the active phase of treatment than in the untreated Class II sample at the same ages. During the years from posttreatment to recall (mean = 6 yrs), there was a significant increase in the PFH/AFH ratio in the treated Class II sample due to a greater increase in PFH than AFH. This ratio continued to improve after all appliance therapy had been discontinued, and it did not occur in the treated Class I sample nor in the untreated Class II sample. The conclusion was that the patient with a Class II malocclusion, if treated, continues to change favorably over time. This favorable change, in turn, helps maintain the Class II correction.
Longitudinal changes in the adult facial profile.	Longitudinal growth changes in the adult craniofacial complex were studied for 24 white male and 23 white female subjects between the ages of 18 and 42 years who had Class I or end-to-end molar relationships and no excessive protrusions or retrusions. The male profile straightened with age, and both lips became more retrusive. The males increased in all nose dimensions and in soft tissue thickness at pogonion, but decreased in upper lip thickness at labrale superius with a slight decrease in lower lip thickness at labrale inferius. The female profile did not become straighter with age, and the lips did not become more retrusive as with males. The females also increased in nose dimensions but decreased in soft tissue thickness at pogonion, decreased in upper lip thickness at labrale superius, and slightly increased in lower lip thickness at labrale inferius. For males most changes in hard tissue measurements had been accomplished by age 25 years, whereas soft tissue changes in the nose, lips, and chin occurred as much after age 25 years as from age 18 to 25 years. For females, both hard and soft tissue measurements had more changes after age 25 years than before. Those males who had high relative sagittal mandibular growth also experienced larger sagittal maxillary growth, and those who showed greater skeletal growth also had more soft tissue growth at the nose. The females also had good correlation between sagittal growth in the mandible and the maxilla. Later maturing males had greater adult craniofacial skeletal growth in several dimensions.
Changes in vertical tooth position and face height related to long term anterior repositioning splint therapy.	This study evaluates whether extended full-time wear of a partial coverage mandibular anterior repositioning splint (MORA) causes intrusion of posterior teeth and determines the effect on jaw position. Sixty-four patients from two private orthodontic practices were studied using cephalometric radiographs to measure vertical change in position of the anterior and posterior teeth and the mandible. The splint wear time ranged from a minimum of one half year to a maximum of 4.8 years, with a mean of 1.33 years. No significant change was recorded in the distance from the mandibular molar to the mandibular plane. On average, the maxillary incisor and maxillary molar extruded about 1 mm, while the mandibular molar was unchanged and the mandibular incisor intruded about 0.6 mm. Posterior face height increased an average of 1.6 mm, and anterior face height increased an average of 2.7 mms. In 20% of the patients, intrusion of the mandibular molars of 1 mm or more occurred. In 41%, extrusion of the maxillary incisors of 1 mm or more was noted. Intrusion of the upper molars or extrusion of the lower incisors occurred in only 5% of the patients. The data indicates that only a very small proportion of patients having long term splint therapy using the MORA have clinically significant molar intrusion. Change in mandibular position was expressed in a vertical increase in posterior and anterior face height. Only very small changes occurred in antero-posterior position.
Influence of stabilization occlusal splint on craniocervical relationships. Part I: Cephalometric analysis.	This study was conducted in order to determine the effect of an occlusal splint on craniocervical relationships, in subjects with muscle spasms in the sternocleidomastoid and trapezius muscles. A full-arch maxillary stabilization occlusal splint was made for each of the 15 subjects. Two lateral craniocervical radiographs were taken for each subject, with and without an occlusal splint. Cephalometric analysis showed that the splint caused a significant extension of the head on the cervical spine. There was also a significant decrease in the cervical spine lordosis in the first, second and third cervical segment. These cervical changes could be a compensation mechanism caused by the extension of the cranium on the upper cervical spine. The change in the curvature implies that it is necessary to periodically evaluate the changes occurring in the craniocervical relationships after the occlusal splint has been inserted.
Juvenile chronic arthritis: a cephalometric analysis of the facial skeleton.	A retrospective cross-sectional cephalometric investigation was undertaken to examine the facial form of a group of Finnish children with juvenile chronic arthritis (JCA). Following digitization, the radiographs were divided into three age groups, and according to whether or not 'bird-face' deformity was present. From a total of 67 cases (39 females and 28 males) 19 per cent were judged to be 'affected'. Analyses were carried out and the groups compared using t-tests. The mandible was found to be smaller both in ramal height and body length in the affected sample, with reduction in posterior face height being only partly compensated by increase in bony apposition at the angle producing antegonial notching. There was posterior rotation of the mandible with a reduction in angles S-N-B and S-N-Pog, and an increase in the gonial angle, the angle between the mandibular plane and S-N, maxillary, and occlusal planes. The changes in the maxilla were less marked. Although S-N-A was reduced in all three age groups, it was not significantly so. Maxillary length (ANS-PNS) was significantly smaller in the two younger age groups. In the vertical plane maxillary dimensions were reduced in the two younger age groups. A highly significant increase in the occlusal to maxillary planes angle was observed in all groups. There was, however, no difference in S-N to maxillary planes angle, indicating a more steeply inclined occlusal plane due to subnormally erupted maxillary molars. Although the inter-incisal angle was reduced there was no significant difference in the incisor inclinations in relation to the jaws and despite the posterior rotation of the mandible there was no significant increase in size of overjet or in the frequency of anterior open bite.
Three-dimensional evaluation of facial asymmetry in cleft lip and palate.	The purpose of the present study was to describe facial asymmetry in three dimensions in individuals with an operated complete unilateral cleft lip and palate (UCLP) and in individuals without craniofacial anomalies (controls). Three-dimensional coordinates for 16 bilateral and 10 midsagittal facial landmarks were determined for the UCLP group (N = 49) and the control group (N = 80) by means of stereophotogrammetry. The total asymmetry was measured and resolved for transverse, vertical, and sagittal components. It can be concluded that all three components are important in studies on facial asymmetry. Individuals with UCLP show more facial asymmetry in the vertical direction than controls. They demonstrate more facial asymmetry in the region related to the cleft than controls. And, males in general demonstrate more asymmetry of the nose than females.
The relationship between maximal bite force, bite force endurance, and facial morphology during growth. A cross-sectional study.	The aims of this investigation were to study the relation between facial morphology and bite force at different ages during growth and to investigate possible relations between bite force and the variables age, finger force, stature, and sex in growing healthy individuals. One hundred and thirty-six individuals were included, consisting of six groups of males and females, 7-9, 10-12, and 20-24 years old. Standardized photographs were taken to determine the facial type. The occlusal relationship, body height, finger force, maximal bite force, and bite force endurance amplitude were recorded. All bite force variables and finger force increased with age in both sexes. A positive correlation was found between the maximal bite force in the incisor region and the ratio of upper to lower facial height; this is, subjects with a high bite force had a relatively short lower anterior height. The maximal bite force for molars and endurance amplitude were positively correlated to stature and finger force but not to facial characteristics. A longitudinal study to follow each individual child during growth would be of interest to evaluate the importance of muscular influence on facial growth.
Effects of improvements of poorly fitting dentures and new dentures on masticatory performance.	The effect of four modifications to improve the fit and maxillomandibular relationships of poorly fitting dentures and the insertion of new dentures on masticatory performance was assessed in 21 denture wearers. A 2-week adaptation period was allowed for each of the four modifications and 3 weeks and 12 weeks of adaptation for new dentures. The preferred side masticatory performances were not appreciably affected by either the modifications to improve the fit of the original dentures or the new dentures. In most instances there was a slight decline in performance. Three denture modifications caused significant declines in the carrot-swallowing threshold performances and the new dentures in the peanut-swallowing threshold performance. In other words, the denture wearers had a greater percentage of coarse particles in their bolus ready for ingestion when they chewed with altered or new dentures compared with original dentures. However, they chewed faster and applied fewer chewing strokes with their modified and new dentures. A steady but gradual improvement in the mean performance score with carrots was noted with time after the insertion of new dentures. Dentists and patients need to understand that adaptation to new or modified old dentures may be a long, drawn-out process for some patients.
Associations among upper airway structure, body position, and obesity in skeletal Class I male patients with obstructive sleep apnea.	Interactions between upper airway structure and posture in relation to obesity were studied in a sample of 61 adult Class I skeletal type male patients with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) and 10 homologous control subjects. A pair of upright and supine lateral cephalometric films were taken for each subject. A Pearson correlation analysis identified significant r values for several demographic variables in patients with OSA such as apnea and hypopnea index, percentage of predicted neck circumference, minimum arterial oxygen saturation, and body mass index (BMI). The difference between cephalometric variables identified in upright and supine subjects was calculated. When patients with OSA changed their posture from upright to supine, significant correlations were observed between the cranial base to upper cervical column angle and the hypopharynx cross-sectional area and BMI. Moreover, the mandibular plane angle and the sella-nasion plane was significantly correlated with BMI. This occurred along with a significant positive correlation between the sella-nasion plane angle and BMI and a significant inverse correlation between the mandibular plane angle in reference to the absolute vertical and horizontal planes, with BMI after the positional change. Such correlations were not observed in control subjects. No correlations were observed between the variables related to the position of the hyoid bone with BMI in either patients with OSA or control subjects after the change in posture. On the basis of these findings, we propose that when patients with OSA change their body position from upright to supine (1) the patient's neck is more extended, and (2) the hyoid bone moves more anterosuperiorly in conjunction with an upward and forward rotation of the mandible. This change in craniofacial structure may be a compensatory geometrical change in the upper airway to secure its patency.
In pursuit of an added dimension.	For dentists working in general practice, undertaking research is not an easy path to take. I know from my own experience that there are many problems, such as cost, time, and lack of training in methodology. However, I feel it is paramount that GDPs do carry out research and that originality of thought and individuality be allowed to flourish. The profession can only benefit from such challenges.
A preliminary report on the determination of the vertical dimension of occlusion using the principle of the mandibular position in swallowing.	When constructing replacement complete dentures, trying to estimate the correct occlusion vertical dimension (OVD) can be difficult. This paper describes a method of using the swallowing method to estimate the correct OVD and to form occlusal pivots on old dentures prior to constructing new ones. The method has been used on 21 patients. The mean increase in the OVD was 9.7 mm with the largest increase being 19 mm and the smallest 3 mm. All the increases in OVD were done in one step, there were no gradual build-ups. New dentures were constructed to the height of the pivots once the patients were comfortable with the modified old dentures. In three cases the OVD had to be reduced once the dentures had been constructed but in all other cases the patients continued to wear their new dentures. All 21 patients answered a questionnaire about their new dentures. All of them were wearing their new dentures, and 18 out of 21 patients thought that their new dentures were better than their previous ones.
The prevalence and aetiology of craniomandibular disorders among completely edentulous patients.	Two hundred and one patients awaiting complete denture treatment with the Victorian Denture Scheme participated in the study. One hundred and fifty three of these were females and 48 were male. The majority of the participants were above 65 years of age and had been wearing their present complete dentures for more than 15 years. Most of these patients were seeking prosthodontic treatment in order to replace their dentures which they said had become "loose" over the years. The information obtained from the interview-questionnaire and the clinical examination showed that parafunctional habits were common among 70% of the participants. In addition to this, pain and tenderness to palpation of the lateral pterygoid muscles was the only symptom which had a significant percentage distribution among the patients. Statistical analysis showed that there were some signs and symptoms of craniomandibular disorders which were correlated with these patients' complaint of loose dentures. It was also shown that signs and symptoms of craniomandibular disorders may be related to the patients' age and the number of sets of complete dentures worn in the past.
The anterior alveolus: its importance in limiting orthodontic treatment and its influence on the occurrence of iatrogenic sequelae.	Delineating the limits of orthodontic treatment in nongrowing individuals is important when making treatment decisions, especially in borderline orthodontic-surgical cases. The labial and lingual cortical plates at the level of the incisor apex may represent the anatomic limits of tooth movement. Cephalometric films of 107 adults were measured to determine the width of alveolar bone anterior and posterior to the incisor apex in each arch. Thin alveolar widths were found both labial and lingual to the mandibular incisors in groups of Class I, II, and III individuals with high SN-MP angle and in a group of Class III average SN-MP individuals. Thin alveolar widths were also found lingual to the maxillary incisors in a Class II high angle group. Clinical cases are presented showing that orthodontic tooth movement may be limited in patients with narrow alveolar bone widths and that these patients are likely to experience increased iatrogenic sequelae.
The use of a provisional restoration in implant dentistry: a clinical report.	Provisional restorations in implant dentistry have rarely been considered an important stage in treatment. The definitive restoration is commonly fabricated in the laboratory with very little clinical input. The potential for error in the selection of abutments, framework design, appropriate vertical dimension of occlusion, occlusal profile, and finally the esthetic interpretation is significant. These static and dynamic variables can be identified clinically and communicated to the laboratory. It is suggested that all fixed detachable implant procedures incorporate a provisional phase to allow the diagnosis of static and dynamic clinical variables that determine the final design of the prosthesis. Implant restorations should be designed with a clinical basis that can be confirmed from a functional provisional restoration.
Case report. Adult Class II malocclusion with constricted arches, excessive vertical overlap and malposed teeth.	The patient presented with constriction of both arches, moderate crowding, posterior crossbite, severe deep bite, TMJ symptoms and facial pain. The Crozat appliance therapy effectively uprighted the posterior segments and developed the arches. Alignment, leveling and development of a good functional occlusion was accomplished efficiently with the straight-wire appliance. Facial balance and good lip support was maintained. No stripping was present and the periodontal health remains excellent. An improvement was made in the patient's smile and TMJ health. The teeth have been stable during the three year period following the initial placement of retainers. And the patient is very pleased with the treatment results.
Treating orofacial dyskinesia with functional physiotherapy in the case of frontal open bite.	Oral myofunctional therapy was found to be successful, in a group of 75 patients, ages six to 22 all with anterior open bites. Seventeen of 19 who lisped before therapy eliminated the lisp. Upper respiratory system allergies were eliminated in nine of 11 patients. A combination of myofunctional therapy and orthodontic treatment was more successful in correcting lip resting posture than was therapy alone. Lip and tongue resting postures, along with swallowing patterns, were corrected to a highly significant degree.
Electromyographic investigation of masticatory muscles in unilateral cleft lip and palate patients with anterior crossbite.	To evaluate the characteristics of masticatory muscle activity in operated unilateral cleft lip and palate (UCLP) patients with anterior crossbite compared with normal individuals.
A 2-year follow-up of mandibular posture following an increase in occlusal vertical dimension beyond the clinical rest position with fixed restorations.	While resting mandibular posture is continuously changing, repeatable relations of 'physiologic rest position' (PRP) and 'clinical rest position' (CRP) are described in the literature. The PRP is defined as a position of minimal muscle activity and CRP as a more closed clinical reference relation. Relaxed resting posture (RRP) is a repeatable postural range obtained by operator-induced relaxation techniques. This article reports on measurements of mandibular posture in a patient group following an increase in occlusal vertical dimension (OVD) with fixed restorations beyond CRP over 2 years. The relationship of CRP and RRP in the restored and a non-restored control group is compared. The relationship of RRP and corresponding masseteric EMG values to baseline minimal EMG levels is reported for both groups. Resting face height adapted to the increased OVD and remained consistent over 1 and 2 years. The RRP was greater and significantly different from CRP in both groups (P = 0.0001). Results indicated that both CRP and RRP were postural ranges and not specific postural positions. The RRP occurred at minimum baseline EMG levels for both groups and appears to be consistent with physiologic rest position. The possibility of achieving minimal EMG levels at varying interocclusal rest space relations is discussed.
Relationship between facial types and tooth and bone characteristics of the mandible obtained by CT scanning.	The purpose of this study was to evaluate relationships between morphological characteristics of vertical sections of the mandibular body and facial type. Of the correlation coefficients between tooth and bone inclination and facial type parameters, facial height index (FHI) was negatively associated with second premolar (P2), first molar (M1), and second molar (M2) inclinations. The angle represented by Frankfort horizontal plane to mandibular plane (FMA) was negatively associated with bone inclination of the M2 section. The buccal cortical bone was thicker in short-faced individuals than in the average and long-faced groups, while lingual cortical bone thickness of the M1 and M2 sections was greater. The basal cortical bone thickness of the L1 section was greater in the short-faced group, and the inclinations of the P2, M1, and M2 axes were significantly smaller. Teeth in the short-faced group inclined more lingually than in the average- and long-faced groups. The results of this study provide evidence that a significant but complex relationship exists between structures of the mandibular body and facial types. The morphological features that relate to masticatory function and facial types are associated with cortical bone thickness of the mandibular body and the buccolingual inclination of the first and second molars.
