Conformations of vertebrate striated muscle myosin monomers in equilibrium with filaments.	Porcine cardiac myosin monomers in equilibrium with filaments under physiological conditions were observed to have two conformations, extended and folded forms, upon electron microscopy and gel filtration HPLC. The conformational state was independent of ATP and the phosphorylation of regulatory light chain. The folded monomers of cardiac myosin were mainly in an open conformation with only one bend in the tail, and may not trap the hydrolysis products of ATP, as assessed by single turnover experiments. These properties are similar to those of the folded monomers of rabbit skeletal myosin [Katoh, T., Konishi, K., and Yazawa, M. (1998) J. Biol. Chem. 273, 11436-11439]. The conformational states of skeletal and cardiac myosin monomers were not affected by pH between 7.0 and 8.5. Although significant disassembly of filaments and thus an increase in the monomer concentration were observed with an increase in pH. The results indicate that the pH-dependent change in filament assembly is due to a shift of equilibrium between the filaments and extended monomers toward filament disassembly. The Mg2+-ATPase activity of these myosin monomers decreased with a decrease in the salt concentration below approximately 0.1 M, suggestive of the formation of a closed conformation similar to the conformation of 10S smooth myosin. The results suggest that the conformational change from the extended to the folded form is a common property of various myosin IIs.
UNC-11, a Caenorhabditis elegans AP180 homologue, regulates the size and protein composition of synaptic vesicles.	The unc-11 gene of Caenorhabditis elegans encodes multiple isoforms of a protein homologous to the mammalian brain-specific clathrin-adaptor protein AP180. The UNC-11 protein is expressed at high levels in the nervous system and at lower levels in other tissues. In neurons, UNC-11 is enriched at presynaptic terminals but is also present in cell bodies. unc-11 mutants are defective in two aspects of synaptic vesicle biogenesis. First, the SNARE protein synaptobrevin is mislocalized, no longer being exclusively localized to synaptic vesicles. The reduction of synaptobrevin at synaptic vesicles is the probable cause of the reduced neurotransmitter release observed in these mutants. Second, unc-11 mutants accumulate large vesicles at synapses. We propose that the UNC-11 protein mediates two functions during synaptic vesicle biogenesis: it recruits synaptobrevin to synaptic vesicle membranes and it regulates the size of the budded vesicle during clathrin coat assembly.
Autonomous control of cell and organ size by CHICO, a Drosophila homolog of vertebrate IRS1-4.	The control of growth is fundamental to the developing metazoan. Here, we show that CHICO, a Drosophila homolog of vertebrate IRS1-4, plays an essential role in the control of cell size and growth. Animals mutant for chico are less than half the size of wild-type flies, owing to fewer and smaller cells. In mosaic animals, chico homozygous cells grow slower than their heterozygous siblings, show an autonomous reduction in cell size, and form organs of reduced size. Although chico flies are smaller, they show an almost 2-fold increase in lipid levels. The similarities of the growth defects caused by mutations in chico and the insulin receptor gene in Drosophila and by perturbations of the insulin/IGF1 signaling pathway in vertebrates suggest that this pathway plays a conserved role in the regulation of overall growth by controling cell size, cell number, and metabolism.
Rhombomere development in a reptilian embryo.	Rhombomere development was investigated in a reptile, Alligator mississippiensis, using a variety of methodologies: cytoarchitecture (cresyl violet), histochemistry (peanut agglutinin), immunocytochemistry (antibodies to acetylated tubulin, vimentin, calretinin, and acetylcholinesterase), and external and internal morphology of wholemount embryos. Rhombomere boundaries form sequentially until 8 rhombomeres are present at stage 8. From stage 11 onwards, rhombomere borders fade. When present, boundaries of rhombomeres 2 through 5 were distinct. In all embryos, except the earliest stages, neural tissue was divided between the caudal end of the mesencephalon and the rostral end of the rhombencephalon. This area of transection was designated as the isthmus. For these technical reasons, a distinct border between the midbrain and the first rhombomere was not seen and the isthmic rhombomere could not be identified. The interrhombomeric boundary between rhombomere 7 and rhombomere 8 and between the most caudal rhombomere and the spinal cord was not nearly as clear as were the boundaries of rhombomeres 2 through 5. Development of rhombomeres 2 through 5 was investigated in wholemount preparations between stages 5/6 and 11. Qualitative and quantitative observations were made. In these rhombomeres, r2 through r5, rostrocaudal caudal expansion occurs at a slower rate than mediolateral development. This differential growth sculpts the morphology of rhombomeres 2 through 5. Rhombomere development in Alligator shares several features in common with hindbrain segmentation in chick. The identification of rhombomeres in a multitude of vertebrates from a variety of classes suggests that segmentation is a feature common to hindbrain development in all vertebrates.
Heparan sulfates and heparins: similar compounds performing the same functions in vertebrates and invertebrates?	The distribution and structure of heparan sulfate and heparin are briefly reviewed. Heparan sulfate is a ubiquitous compound of animal cells whose structure has been maintained throughout evolution, showing an enormous variability regarding the relative amounts of its disaccharide units. Heparin, on the other hand, is present only in a few tissues and species of the animal kingdom and in the form of granules inside organelles in the cytoplasm of special cells. Thus, the distribution as well as the main structural features of the molecule, including its main disaccharide unit, have been maintained through evolution. These and other studies led to the proposal that heparan sulfate may be involved in the cell-cell recognition phenomena and control of cell growth, whereas heparin may be involved in defense mechanisms against bacteria and other foreign materials. All indications obtained thus far suggest that these molecules perform the same functions in vertebrates and invertebrates.
Thirty-six years in the clinic without an MMP inhibitor. What hath collagenase wrought?	Vertebrate collagenase was discovered in 1962, and within a few short years, several inhibitors had been identified. At one time or another, virtually every major drug company has had an MMP inhibitor program, but in 1999, there is only one such product on the market. With a potential market for lifelong therapy in rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, periodontal disease, osteoporosis, and cancer, this is certainly puzzling. The problem is that the chemistry appears to have outstripped the biology. In vitro, there are many inhibitors with nanomolar or picomolar efficacy, but in vivo efficacy in animal models does not always follow. There is also a conceptual problem regarding broad-spectrum vs. highly specific inhibitors. Designing human trials to demonstrate MMP inhibition and clinical efficacy is a daunting problem, especially if one seeks to distinguish anti-MMP activity from anti-inflammatory effect. Adult periodontal disease may be the best available human disease model for development of an MMPI.
The anterior margin of the mammalian gastrula: comparative and phylogenetic aspects of its role in axis formation and head induction.	Recent findings on morphology and gene expression in several mammalian embryos suggest that there is a new landmark and possibly a center with organizer activity in the anterior margin of the embryo at the onset of gastrulation. This review compiles morphological variations and similarities found among mammals during gastrulation stages and, at the same time, stresses the common aspects, at the morphological and the molecular level, of setting up the body plan with regard to axis formation and head induction. Both morphological and functional aspects are then used to draw comparisons with equivalent developmental stages in lower vertebrate species, such as birds, amphibia, and bony fish. Finally, a suggestion is made as to how gastrulation may have evolved in the vertebrate phylum.
Biologically active proteins from natural product extracts.	The term "biologically active proteins" is almost redundant. All proteins produced by living creatures are, by their very nature, biologically active to some extent in their homologous species. In this review, a subset of these proteins will be discussed that are biologically active in heterologous systems. The isolation and characterization of novel proteins from natural product extracts including those derived from microorganisms, plants, insects, terrestrial vertebrates, and marine organisms will be reviewed and grouped into several distinct classes based on their biological activity and their structure.
Novel vertebrate nucleoporins Nup133 and Nup160 play a role in mRNA export.	RNA undergoing nuclear export first encounters the basket of the nuclear pore. Two basket proteins, Nup98 and Nup153, are essential for mRNA export, but their molecular partners within the pore are largely unknown. Because the mechanism of RNA export will be in question as long as significant vertebrate pore proteins remain undiscovered, we set out to find their partners. Fragments of Nup98 and Nup153 were used for pulldown experiments from Xenopus egg extracts, which contain abundant disassembled nuclear pores. Strikingly, Nup98 and Nup153 each bound the same four large proteins. Purification and sequence analysis revealed that two are the known vertebrate nucleoporins, Nup96 and Nup107, whereas two mapped to ORFs of unknown function. The genes encoding the novel proteins were cloned, and antibodies were produced. Immunofluorescence reveals them to be new nucleoporins, designated Nup160 and Nup133, which are accessible on the basket side of the pore. Nucleoporins Nup160, Nup133, Nup107, and Nup96 exist as a complex in Xenopus egg extracts and in assembled pores, now termed the Nup160 complex. Sec13 is prominent in Nup98 and Nup153 pulldowns, and we find it to be a member of the Nup160 complex. We have mapped the sites that are required for binding the Nup160 subcomplex, and have found that in Nup98, the binding site is used to tether Nup98 to the nucleus; in Nup153, the binding site targets Nup153 to the nuclear pore. With transfection and in vivo transport assays, we find that specific Nup160 and Nup133 fragments block poly[A]+ RNA export, but not protein import or export. These results demonstrate that two novel vertebrate nucleoporins, Nup160 and Nup133, not only interact with Nup98 and Nup153, but themselves play a role in mRNA export.
Tissue integrity: hemidesmosomes and resistance to stress.	How do animal tissues resist the shearing forces to which they are exposed during locomotion or harsh encounters with the environment? Genetic analysis in Caenorhabditis elegans is furthering our understanding of the nature and function of the attachments that preserve tissue integrity.
Molecular targets of vertebrate segmentation: two mechanisms control segmental expression of Xenopus hairy2 during somite formation.	Vertebrate hairy genes are expressed in patterns thought to be readouts of a "segmentation clock" in the presomitic mesoderm. Here we use transgenic Xenopus embryos to show that two types of regulatory elements are required to reconstitute the segmental pattern of Xenopus hairy2. The first is a promoter element containing two binding sites for Xenopus Su(H), a transcriptional activator of Notch target genes. The second is a short sequence in the hairy2 3' untranslated region (UTR), which most likely functions posttranscriptionally to modulate hairy2 RNA levels. 3' UTRs of other hairy-related, segmentally expressed genes can substitute for that of hairy2. Our results demonstrate a novel mechanism regulating the segmental patterns of Notch target genes and suggest that vertebrate segmentation requires the intersection of two regulatory pathways.
Emerging roles for hedgehog-patched-Gli signal transduction in reproduction.	Hedgehog (Hh) proteins are expressed during vertebrate development in some tissues with inductive properties and at epithelial-mesenchymal boundaries in several developing organs, including the lung, gut, hair follicle, and tooth. The Hh signaling pathway is highly conserved, and important clues to understanding the mechanism of Hh signal transduction in vertebrates have come from studies in Drosophila. In recent years, Hh signaling has been recognized during embryonic development and in some cases during postnatal life in several mammalian tissues whose functions are essential for reproduction, including the gonads, uterus, and hormonally responsive accessory sex glands such as the prostate and mammary gland. The role of the pathway in these tissues is highly reminiscent of its role at epithelial-mesenchymal-stromal boundaries in other organ systems, which has provided a framework within which to explore Hh signaling in tissues that function in reproduction. Some features unique to these tissues are emerging, including a role in proliferation and differentiation of male germline cells in mammals and apparent influences of sex steroids on Hh signaling. However, many questions remain about the function of Hh signaling in the gonads, uterus, prostate, and mammary gland, including factors regulating the signal transduction pathway, identification of downstream target genes, and roles for Hh signaling in diseases involving these tissues.
The pleiotropic functions of the Y-box-binding protein, YB-1.	The Y-box-binding protein (YB-1) represents the most evolutionary conserved nucleic-acid-binding protein currently known. YB-1 is a member of the cold-shock domain (CSD) protein superfamily. It performs a wide variety of cellular functions, including transcriptional regulation, translational regulation, DNA repair, drug resistance and stress responses to extracellular signals. As a result, YB-1 expression is closely associated with cell proliferation. In this review, we will begin by briefly describing the characteristics of YB-1 and will then summarize the pleiotropic functions brought about via DNA-RNA transaction and protein-protein interactions. In addition, we will discuss the diverse range of potential physiological and pathological functions of YB-1.
Triggering cell mitosis in higher eukaryotes]	Dramatic changes of cell organisation occur at onset of mitosis. Genetic analysis of fission yeast and physiological studies of vertebrate and invertebrate oocytes showed that activation of cyclin B-cdc2 kinase triggers mitosis. Nevertheless, upstream mechanisms responsible for this activation remain largely unknown in somatic cells of higher eukaryotes. This review discusses possible pathways and mechanisms involved in triggering onset of mitosis in such cells, including inhibitory checkpoint mechanisms that detect defects in structural organisation of the cell.
Cell adhesion: parallels between vertebrate and invertebrate focal adhesions.	Recent studies highlight the striking similarity between vertebrate focal adhesion plaques and Caenorhabditis elegans muscle adhesion structures and position LIM domain proteins as central players at focal adhesions.
SNC1, a yeast homolog of the synaptic vesicle-associated membrane protein/synaptobrevin gene family: genetic interactions with the RAS and CAP genes.	SNC1, a gene from the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, encodes a homolog of vertebrate synaptic vesicle-associated membrane proteins (VAMPs) or synaptobrevins. SNC1 was isolated by its ability to suppress the loss of CAP function in S. cerevisiae strains possessing an activated allele of RAS2. CAP is a component of the RAS-responsive S. cerevisiae adenylyl cyclase complex. The N-terminal domain of CAP is required for full cellular responsiveness to activated RAS proteins. The C-terminal domain of CAP is required for normal cellular morphology and responsiveness to nutrient extremes. Multicopy plasmids expressing SNC1 suppress only the loss of the C-terminal functions of CAP and only in the presence of activated RAS2.
Immunohistological characterization of mucin epitopes by pre-treatment of gastro-intestinal sections with periodic acid.	Periodate pretreatment of paraffin sections of ethanol-fixed gastrointestinal mucosae was used to characterize the carbohydrate or peptidic nature of mucin epitopes by immunoperoxidase. Immunoreactivity of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) against histo-blood group related carbohydrate epitopes such as A, Lea, Lec, Sialosyl Lea, H type 2, I, T, Tn and sialosyl Tn dramatically decreased or even disappeared after periodate pretreatment of deparaffinized sections. In contrast, the immunoreactivity of MAbs against peptide mucin epitopes such as the gastric M1 mucin epitopes was almost unaffected by this treatment. Moreover, periodate treatment revealed cryptic peptide M1 mucin epitopes and the peptide MUSE11 epitope associated with the 20 amino acid tandem repeat (PDTRPAPGSTAPPAHGVTSA). An increase of cross-reactions of anti-human M1 MAbs with gastric epithelium of different vertebrate species was detected with periodate treatment. Our results suggest that this method can be useful for preliminary characterization of the biochemical nature of mucin epitopes (peptidic or saccharidic) and for demasking peptidic tumour markers which are hidden by saccharide molecules in normal tissues.
REPLICATION OF A DEOXYRIBONUCLEIC ACID VIRUS IN THYMINE-DEFICIENT MAMMALIAN CELLS.	Gentry, Glenn A. (University of Mississippi School of Medicine, Jackson), Lucy A. Lawson, and Charles C. Randall. Replication of a deoxyribonucleic acid virus in thymine-deficient mammalian cells. J. Bacteriol. 88:1324-1328. 1964.-Equine abortion virus (EAV), a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) virus, causes the degradation of host cell DNA to acid-soluble components in the L-M cell. It was hypothesized that inhibitors of DNA synthesis such as 5-fluorodeoxyuridine (FUdR) and amethopterin, which act by causing a deficiency in thymidine (TdR) nucleotides, would not block virus replication because the breakdown of the host cell DNA would supply sufficient TdR nucleotides for synthesis of viral DNA. The drugs were added 24 hr prior to the virus, amethopterin at 10(-6)m with adenosine included as a purine source, or FUdR at 10(-5)m. In either case, control experiments indicated that the thymineless state was achieved in the host cells. When EAV was added, neither FUdR nor amethopterin had any effect on the production of infectious virus, as determined by plaque assay, thus supporting the hypothesis.
THE EVOLUTION OF THE IMMUNE RESPONSE. 3. IMMUNOLOGIC RESPONSES IN THE LAMPREY.	1. Studies of the immune response have been carried out in more than 1700 lampreys representing three stages in the life cycle of these animals. 2. Lampreys used in this study were unable to clear certain soluble protein antigens and bacteriophage and were unable to make antibodies to these antigens. Hemocyanin was cleared from the circulation. 3. The immune responses demonstrated in lampreys include the production of specific antibody to killed Brucella cells, the rejection of skin homografts, and the development of a delayed allergic response to old tuberculin. 4. A responsive proliferation of lymphoid cells occurred in the protovertebral arch following antigen-adjuvant stimulation. 5. Electrophoretic and immunoelectrophoretic analysis of lamprey serum revealed gamma globulin. Ultracentrifugal analysis of serum revealed proteins with sedimentation coefficients of 17S, 8S, 7S, and 3S. 6. The antibodies thus far observed in the lamprey are of relatively high molecular weight and destroyed by 2-mercaptoethanol. 7. In the lamprey it would appear that there is reflected the coordinate evolution of a primitive thymus, primitive spleen containing lymphoid foci, a family of lymphocytes in the peripheral blood and capacity for gamma globulin synthesis and expression of adaptive immunity.
Learning in a simple motor system.	Motor learning is a very basic, essential form of learning that appears to share common mechanisms across different motor systems. We evaluate and compare a few conceptual models for learning in a relatively simple neural system, the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) of vertebrates. We also compare the different animal models that have been used to study the VOR. In the VOR, a sensory signal from the semicircular canals is transformed into a motor signal that moves the eyes. The VOR can modify the transformation under the guidance of vision. The changes are persistent and share some characteristics with other types of associative learning. The cerebellar cortex is directly linked to the VOR reflex circuitry in a partnership that is present in all vertebrates, and which is necessary for motor learning. Early theories of Marr, Albus, and Ito, in which motor memories are stored solely in the cerebellar cortex, have not explained the bulk of the experimental data. Many studies appear to indicate a site of learning in the vestibular nuclei, and the most successful models have incorporated long-term memory storage in both the cerebellar cortex and the brainstem. Plausible cellular mechanisms for learning have been identified in both structures. We propose that short-term motor memory is initially stored in the cerebellar cortex, and that during consolidation of the motor memory the locus of storage shifts to include a brainstem site. We present experimental results that support our hypothesis.
Vitamin a requirement for early cardiovascular morphogenesis specification in the vertebrate embryo: insights from the avian embryo.	Vitamin A is required throughout the life cycle, including crucial stages of embryonic and fetal development. With the identification of retinoic acid-specific nuclear transcription factors, the retinoid receptors, considerable advances have been made in understanding the molecular function of vitamin A. The requirement for vitamin A during early embryogenesis has successfully been examined in the vitamin A-deficient avian embryo during neurulation, when in the vertebrates crucial developmental decisions take place. These studies revealed that retinoic acid is essential during these early stages of embryogenesis for the initiation of organogenesis (i.e., formation of the heart). If retinoic acid is not present at this time, abnormal development ensues, leading to early embryonic death. Though the initial insult of the absence of vitamin A appears to be on the specification of cardiovascular tissues, subsequently all development is adversely affected and the embryo dies. Molecular and functional studies revealed that retinoic acid regulates the expression of the cardiogenic transcription factor GATA-4 and several heart asymmetry genes, which explains why the heart position is random in vitamin A-deficient quail embryos. During the crucial retinoic acid-requiring developmental window, retinoic acid transduces its signals to genes for heart morphogenesis via the receptors RARalpha2, RARgamma, and RXRalpha. Elucidation of the function of vitamin A during early embryonic development may lead to a better understanding of the cardiovascular birth defects prevalent in the Western world.
Acute-to-chronic species sensitivity distribution extrapolation.	Seeking to make greater use of available data for risk assessment of substances, we constructed, for the situation in which chronic data are limited or even nonexistent but acute data are relatively large, an acute to chronic transformation (ACT) methodology based on the concept of species sensitivity distributions (SSDs). This ACT methodology uses a comparison of acute and chronic SSDs, separately for vertebrate data (with 22 substances) and for invertebrate data (with 15 substances). Rather than comparing an acute toxicity value with a chronic value, as when calculating an acute to chronic ratio (ACR), samples of acute and chronic data corresponding to the same category of species were compared. Starting from a sample of acute data, the ACT methodology showed relationships that enable the creation of a sample of predicted chronic values. This sample can then be used to calculate a predicted chronic hazardous concentration potentially affecting 5% of species (HC5%), just as with a sample of real chronic toxicity values. This ACT approach was tested on 11 substances. For each substance, the real chronic HC5% and the predicted chronic HC5% were calculated and compared. The ratio between chronic HC5% and ACT HC5% was, on average, 1.6 and did not exceed 4.4 for the 11 substances studied.
Vertebrate lungs: structure, topography and mechanics. A comparative perspective of the progressive integration of respiratory system, locomotor apparatus and ontogenetic development.	Vertebrate lungs are highly diverse in their structure, topographical position, ventilation mechanisms, constructional integration into the locomotor apparatus, and the interrelationships with the mode of their ontogenetic development. Vertebrate lungs evolved as supplementary air-breathing organs in primary fishes, being ventilated by buccal pumping. In most recent fishes the lungs are transformed into the hydrostatic swimbladder. This basic type of unicameral lungs and their buccal pumping ventilation are also found in recent amphibians. Land vertebrates developed a very efficient aspiration type of ventilation. In most recent reptiles the lungs are subdivided into three rows of lung chambers, enlarging the exchange surface in correlation to their increasing metabolic needs. The avian respiratory apparatus, with its volume-constant lungs and highly compliant air sacs, and the mammalian broncho-alveolar lung, with its very low compliance, are both derived from multicameral lungs. The avian and the mammalian respiratory systems are integrated very differently with the specific constructions of their locomotor apparatusses and the specific mode of their ontogenetic development.
Functional adaptation and its molecular basis in vertebrate hemoglobins, neuroglobins and cytoglobins.	Hemoglobin (Hb), the paradigm for allosteric proteins through decades, has gained renaissance in recent years following discovery of globins or their genes in all living organisms and in all tissues of higher animals, and of new members of the globin family, such as neuroglobins, Ngb, found predominantly in neural and nerve tissues and cytoglobins, Cygb, that has unprecedented nuclear location. The recent progresses in this field have been prompted by the development of sophisticated techniques to probe molecular structure and functions, which have revealed novel functions, such as the scavenging and release of vasoactive nitric oxide and the regulation of cellular metabolism. This review deals with the functional adaptations and the underlying molecular mechanisms in globins and presents case examples of molecular adaptations encountered in vertebrates and agnathans.
The lymphatic vascular system: secondary or primary?	It has generally been accepted that the blood vascular system is primary and the lymphatic vascular system secondary. Diseases of the blood vascular system are the leading cause for mortality and morbidity in developed nations. In contrast, lymphedema is seldom life-threatening and can generally be well-managed by combined physiotherapy. During ontogeny, the blood vessels and the heart develop much earlier than the lymphatic vessels. However, there is growing evidence that the first vascular system occurring during ontogeny and phylogeny has lymphatic functions. Defense mechanisms are crucial for all organisms irrespective of their size. Macrophages precede the emergence of erythrocytes during ontogeny, and their circulation in the hemolymphatic (more accurately, lymphohematic) system of insects, which do not possess erythrocytes, shows that the lymphatic function is primary whereas the nutritive function is secondary, needed only in larger organisms. In molluscs and arthropods, which have an open vascular system, hemocyanin has both oxygen transporting and defense functions. In vertebrates, the early blood vessels have structural characteristics of lymphatics and express the lymphendothelial receptor flt-4 (Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor Receptor-3). Later, flt-4 becomes restricted to the definitive lymphatics, which are either formed from the primary vessels or from mesodermal lymphangioblasts. The primary lymphatic function has become overruled by the nutritive function in blood vessels of larger animals. The circular movement of cells is driven by a blood heart, which, however, is not an unique organ. Lymph hearts are present in lower vertebrates, still develop transiently in birds, and are vestigial in the contractile lymphangion which "circulates" immune cells. We conclude that the definitive lymphatics are perhaps secondary in mammals, but the blood vascular system seems to develop on the basis of an ancestral lymphatic system with lymph hearts.
Molecular evolution of shark and other vertebrate DNases I.	We purified pancreatic deoxyribonuclease I (DNase I) from the shark Heterodontus japonicus using three-step column chromatography. Although its enzymatic properties resembled those of other vertebrate DNases I, shark DNase I was unique in being a basic protein. Full-length cDNAs encoding the DNases I of two shark species, H. japonicus and Triakis scyllia, were constructed from their total pancreatic RNAs using RACE. Nucleotide sequence analyses revealed two structural alterations unique to shark enzymes: substitution of two Cys residues at positions 101 and 104 (which are well conserved in all other vertebrate DNases I) and insertion of an additional Thr or Asn residue into an essential Ca(2+)-binding site. Site-directed mutagenesis of shark DNase I indicated that both of these alterations reduced the stability of the enzyme. When the signal sequence region of human DNase I (which has a high alpha-helical structure content) was replaced with its amphibian, fish and shark counterparts (which have low alpha-helical structure contents), the activity expressed by the chimeric mutant constructs in transfected mammalian cells was approximately half that of the wild-type enzyme. In contrast, substitution of the human signal sequence region into the amphibian, fish and shark enzymes produced higher activity compared with the wild-types. The vertebrate DNase I family may have acquired high stability and effective expression of the enzyme protein through structural alterations in both the mature protein and its signal sequence regions during molecular evolution.
Terminal nerve and vision.	The vertebrate retina receives efferent input from different parts of the central nervous system. Efferent fibers are thought to influence retinal information processing but their functional role is not well understood. One of the best-described retinopetal fiber systems in teleost retinae belongs to the terminal nerve complex. Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and molluscan cardioexcitatory tetrapeptide (FMRFamide)-containing fibers from the ganglion of the terminal nerve form a dense fiber plexus in the retina at the border of the inner nuclear and inner plexiform layer. Peptide-containing fibers surround and contact perikarya of dopaminergic interplexiform cells in teleost retina. In vitro experiments demonstrated that exogenously supplied GnRH mediates dopaminergic effects on the membrane potential and on the morphology of dendritic tips (spinules) of cone horizontal cells. These effects can be specifically blocked by GnRH-antagonists, indicating that the release of dopamine and dopamine-dependent effects on light adaptation of retinal neurons are affected by the terminal nerve complex. Recent data have shown that olfactory information has an impact on retinal physiology, but its precise role is not clear. The efferent fiber of the terminal nerve complex is one of the first retinopetal fiber systems for which the sources of the fibers, their cellular targets, and several physiological, morphological, and behavioral effects are known. The terminal nerve complex is therefore a model system for the analysis of local information processing which is influenced by a distinct fiber projection.
Phylogeny of the jaw]	Since primary life appeared in the sea about 3.8 billion years ago, the Agnatha improved a part of the respiratory organ, or brachial arch into the jaw during the evolutionary process. The resulting Gnathostomata could catch bigger fish by using the strong jaw. In addition, they developed specific sensory organs in the head, including nose, eyes and ears for detecting position of diets, brain for treating the sensory information, and muscles for masticating foods. Such development of jaw from the brachial arch had an important meaning in the evolutional history of organisms.
RDM1, a novel RNA recognition motif (RRM)-containing protein involved in the cell response to cisplatin in vertebrates.	A variety of cellular proteins has the ability to recognize DNA lesions induced by the anti-cancer drug cisplatin, with diverse consequences on their repair and on the therapeutic effectiveness of this drug. We report a novel gene involved in the cell response to cisplatin in vertebrates. The RDM1 gene (for RAD52 Motif 1) was identified while searching databases for sequences showing similarities to RAD52, a protein involved in homologous recombination and DNA double-strand break repair. Ablation of RDM1 in the chicken B cell line DT40 led to a more than 3-fold increase in sensitivity to cisplatin. However, RDM1-/- cells were not hypersensitive to DNA damages caused by ionizing radiation, UV irradiation, or the alkylating agent methylmethane sulfonate. The RDM1 protein displays a nucleic acid binding domain of the RNA recognition motif (RRM) type. By using gel-shift assays and electron microscopy, we show that purified, recombinant chicken RDM1 protein interacts with single-stranded DNA as well as double-stranded DNA, on which it assembles filament-like structures. Notably, RDM1 recognizes DNA distortions induced by cisplatin-DNA adducts in vitro. Finally, human RDM1 transcripts are abundant in the testis, suggesting a possible role during spermatogenesis.
Critical regions for assembly of vertebrate nonmuscle myosin II.	Myosin II molecules assemble and form filaments through their C-terminal rod region, and the dynamic filament assembly-disassembly process of nonmuscle myosin II molecules is important for cellular activities. To estimate the critical region for filament formation of vertebrate nonmuscle myosin II, we assessed the solubility of a series of truncated recombinant rod fragments of nonmuscle myosin IIB at various concentrations of NaCl. A C-terminal 248-residue rod fragment (Asp 1729-Glu 1976) was shown by its solubility behavior to retain native assembly features, and two regions within it were found to be necessary for assembly: 35 amino acid residues from Asp 1729 to Thr 1763 and 39 amino acid residues from Ala 1875 to Ala 1913, the latter containing a sequence similar to the assembly competence domain (ACD) of skeletal muscle myosin. Fragments lacking either of the two regions were soluble at any NaCl concentration. We referred to these two regions as nonmuscle myosin ACD1 (nACD1) and nACD2, respectively. In addition, we constructed an alpha-helical coiled-coil model of the rod fragment, and found that a remarkable negative charge cluster (termed N1) and a positive charge cluster (termed P2) were present within nACD1 and nACD2, respectively, besides another positive charge cluster (termed P1) in the amino-terminal vicinity of nACD2. From these results, we propose two major electrostatic interactions that are essential for filament formation of nonmuscle myosin II: the antiparallel interaction between P2 and N1 which is essential for the nucleation step and the parallel interaction between P1 and N1 which is important for the elongation step.
Structural basis for vertebrate filamin dimerization.	Filamins are essential in cell motility and many developmental processes. They are large actin cross linking proteins that contain actin binding domains in their N termini and a long rod region constructed from 24 tandem Ig domains. Dimerization is crucial for the actin crosslinking function of filamins and requires the most C-terminal Ig domain. We describe here the crystal structure of this 24th Ig domain (Ig24) of human filamin C and show how it mediates dimerization. The dimer interface is novel and quite different to that seen in the Dictyostelium discoideum filamin analog. The sequence signature of the dimerization interface suggests that the C-terminal domains of all vertebrate filamins share the same dimerization mechanism. Furthermore, we show that point mutations in the dimerization interface disrupt the dimer and that the dissociation constant for recombinant Ig24 is in the micromolar range.
Isolation of the alpha 3-chain of human type V collagen and characterization by partial sequencing.	The alpha 1 alpha 2 alpha 3-chain form of human type V collagen was solubilized from placenta by pepsin treatment and isolated by ion-exchange chromatography. The alpha 3-chain was further separated after denaturation of the triple helix also by ion-exchange chromatography, cleaved with lysyl endopeptidase and the fragments separated by size-exclusion chromatography and reversed phase HPLC. N-Terminal sequence analysis of the fragments and comparison to sequences contained in a database indicated a relatively high similarity of the alpha 3(V)-chain to alpha 1(V) and alpha 1(XI) with an identity of approximately 73%.
Magnesium: The missing element in molecular views of cell proliferation control.	The quantitative study of regulation of cell growth and proliferation began with the development of the technique for monolayer culture of vertebrate cells in the late 1960s. The basic parameters were defined in the early physiological studies, which continued through the next decade. These included specific and non-specific growth factors and the requirement for continuous exposure to such factors through most of the G1 period for progression to S. In the course of this work, the diversity of biochemical responses and the critical role of increased protein synthesis and accumulation for the onset of DNA synthesis were elucidated. In particular, a central role of free cytosolic Mg2+ in direct regulation of protein synthesis and in ancillary processes as a response to membrane perturbation was established. Eventually, the physiological era was superseded by the molecular era beginning in the 1980s. This work focussed on specific receptors for growth factors that entrained a protein kinase cascade, which terminated in a higher frequency of initiation of protein synthesis. However, the molecular studies virtually ignored the key results of the physiological era. Recent studies of the penultimate molecular steps in the regulatory pathway of protein synthesis, however, have supported a model of growth regulation involving membrane perturbation and MgATP2- concentration, results that integrate the findings of the physiological and molecular eras. The resulting relatively simple "membrane, magnesium mitosis" (MMM) model of proliferation control can explain the seeming paradox of the variety of specific and non-specific growth-enhancing treatments that are mediated by the plasma membrane and which bring about a shared, complex but coordinated growth response that drives cell proliferation.
Insecticide species sensitivity distributions: importance of test species selection and relevance to aquatic ecosystems.	Single-species acute toxicity data and (micro)mesocosm data were collated for 16 insecticides. These data were used to investigate the importance of test-species selection in constructing species sensitivity distributions (SSDs) and the ability of estimated hazardous concentrations (HCs) to protect freshwater aquatic ecosystems. A log-normal model was fitted to a minimum of six data points, and the resulting distribution was used to estimate lower (95% confidence), median (50% confidence), and upper (5% confidence) 5% HC (HC5) values. Species sensitivity distributions for specific taxonomic groups (vertebrates, arthropods, nonarthropod invertebrates), habitats (saltwater, freshwater, lentic, lotic), and geographical regions (Palaearctic, Nearctic, temperate, tropical) were compared. The taxonomic composition of the species assemblage used to construct the SSD does have a significant influence on the assessment of hazard, but the habitat and geographical distribution of the species do not. Moreover, SSDs constructed using species recommended in test guidelines did not differ significantly from those constructed using nonrecommended species. Hazardous concentrations estimated using laboratory-derived acute toxicity data for freshwater arthropods (i.e., the most sensitive taxonomic group) were compared to the response of freshwater ecosystems exposed to insecticides. The sensitivity distributions of freshwater arthropods were similar for both field and laboratory exposure, and the lower HC5 (95% protection with 95% confidence) estimate was protective of adverse ecological effects in freshwater ecosystems. The corresponding median HC5 (95% protection level with 50% confidence) was generally protective of single applications of insecticide but not of continuous or multiple applications. In the latter cases, a safety factor of at least five should be applied to the median HC5.
The vertebrate social behavior network: evolutionary themes and variations.	Based on a wide variety of data, it is now clear that birds and teleost (bony) fish possess a core "social behavior network" within the basal forebrain and midbrain that is homologous to the social behavior network of mammals. The nodes of this network are reciprocally connected, contain receptors for sex steroid hormones, and are involved in multiple forms of social behavior. Other hodological features and neuropeptide distributions are likewise very similar across taxa. This evolutionary conservation represents a boon for experiments on phenotypic behavioral variation, as the extraordinary social diversity of teleost fish and songbirds can now be used to generate broadly relevant insights into issues of brain function that are not particularly tractable in other vertebrate groups. Two such lines of research are presented here, each of which addresses functional variation within the network as it relates to divergent patterns of social behavior. In the first set of experiments, we have used a sexually polymorphic fish to demonstrate that natural selection can operate independently on hypothalamic neuroendocrine functions that are relevant for (1) gonadal regulation and (2) sex-typical behavioral modulation. In the second set of experiments, we have exploited the diversity of avian social organizations and ecologies to isolate species-typical group size as a quasi-independent variable. These experiments have shown that specific areas and peptidergic components of the social behavior network possess functional properties that evolve in parallel with divergence and convergence in sociality.
A new peptide of the oxytocin/vasopressin family isolated from nerves of the cephalopod Octopus vulgaris.	An oxytocin/vasopressin-immunoreactive peptide was isolated from nerve terminals of the 'neurosecretory system of the vena cava' in octopus. It was purified by HPLC combined with a RIA for oxytocin. Characterization of the peptide by automated Edman degradation, plasma desorption mass spectroscopy, enzymatic treatment and coelution experiments resulted in the structure: Cys-Tyr-Phe-Arg-Asn-Cys-Pro-Ile-Gly-NH2, a nonapeptide with a molecular weight of 1070 Da and a 1-6 disulfide bond. This cephalopod neuropeptide, here called 'cephalotocin', exhibits 78% sequence homology with the vertebrate neurohypophysial hormone mesotocin and clearly belongs to the oxytocin/vasopressin family of vertebrates, confirming the high conservation of this peptide family.
Close encounters: regulation of vertebrate skeletal myogenesis by cell-cell contact.	Cells of the vertebrate skeletal muscle lineage develop in a highly ordered process that includes specification, migration and differentiation into multinucleated myofibers. The changes in gene expression and cell morphology that occur during myogenic differentiation must be coordinated with each other in a spatiotemporal fashion; one way that this might occur is through regulation of these processes by cell-cell adhesion and resultant signaling. The past several years have witnessed the identification of molecules that are likely to be mediators of the promyogenic effects of cell-cell contact and some of the mechanisms by which they work. These include: the community factor, embryonic fibroblast growth factor (eFGF); classical cadherins, which mediate both adhesion and signaling; and cadherin-associated immunoglobulin superfamily members such as CDO, BOC and neogenin. Genetic evidence for the promyogenic roles of some of these factors is emerging. In other cases, potential compensatory or redundant functions necessitate future construction of double or triple mutants. Mechanistic studies in vitro indicate that specific cadherins and immunoglobulin superfamily proteins exert some of their effects in an interdependent fashion by signaling from a multiprotein complex found at sites of cell-cell contact.
Analysis of a noncanonical poly(A) site reveals a tripartite mechanism for vertebrate poly(A) site recognition.	At least half of all human pre-mRNAs are subject to alternative 3' processing that may modulate both the coding capacity of the message and the array of post-transcriptional regulatory elements embedded within the 3' UTR. Vertebrate poly(A) site selection appears to rely primarily on the binding of CPSF to an A(A/U)UAAA hexamer upstream of the cleavage site and CstF to a downstream GU-rich element. At least one-quarter of all human poly(A) sites, however, lack the A(A/U)UAAA motif. We report that sequence-specific RNA binding of the human 3' processing factor CFI(m) can function as a primary determinant of poly(A) site recognition in the absence of the A(A/U)UAAA motif. CFI(m) is sufficient to direct sequence-specific, A(A/U)UAAA-independent poly(A) addition in vitro through the recruitment of the CPSF subunit hFip1 and poly(A) polymerase to the RNA substrate. ChIP analysis indicates that CFI(m) is recruited to the transcription unit, along with CPSF and CstF, during the initial stages of transcription, supporting a direct role for CFI(m) in poly(A) site recognition. The recognition of three distinct sequence elements by CFI(m), CPSF, and CstF suggests that vertebrate poly(A) site definition is mechanistically more similar to that of yeast and plants than anticipated.
The nucleus of the optic tract. Its function in gaze stabilization and control of visual-vestibular interaction.	1. Electrical stimulation of the nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) induced nystagmus and after-nystagmus with ipsilateral slow phases. The velocity characteristics of the nystagmus were similar to those of the slow component of optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) and to optokinetic after-nystagmus (OKAN), both of which are produced by velocity storage in the vestibular system. When NOT was destroyed, these components disappeared. This indicates that velocity storage is activated from the visual system through NOT. 2. Velocity storage produces compensatory eye-in-head and head-on-body movements through the vestibular system. The association of NOT with velocity storage implies that NOT helps stabilize gaze in space during both passive motion and active locomotion in light with an angular component. It has been suggested that "vestibular-only" neurons in the vestibular nuclei play an important role in generation of velocity storage. Similarities between the rise and fall times of eye velocity during OKN and OKAN to firing rates of vestibular-only neurons suggest that these cells may receive their visual input through NOT. 3. One NOT was injected with muscimol, a GABAA agonist. Ipsilateral OKN and OKAN were lost, suggesting that GABA, which is an inhibitory transmitter in NOT, acts on projection pathways to the brain stem. A striking finding was that visual suppression and habituation of contralateral slow phases of vestibular nystagmus were also abolished after muscimol injection. The latter implies that NOT plays an important role in producing visual suppression of the VOR and habituating its time constant. 4. Habituation is lost after nodulus and uvula lesions and visual suppression after lesions of the flocculus and paraflocculus. We postulate that the disappearance of vestibular habituation and of visual suppression of vestibular responses after muscimol injections was due to dysfacilitation of the prominent NOT-inferior olive pathway, inactivating climbing fibers from the dorsal cap to nodulouvular and flocculoparafloccular Purkinje cells. The prompt loss of habituation when NOT was inactivated, and its return when the GABAergic inhibition dissipated, suggests that although VOR habituation can be relatively permanent, it must be maintained continuously by activity of the vestibulocerebellum.
Comparative genomics and evolution of the HSP90 family of genes across all kingdoms of organisms.	HSP90 proteins are essential molecular chaperones involved in signal transduction, cell cycle control, stress management, and folding, degradation, and transport of proteins. HSP90 proteins have been found in a variety of organisms suggesting that they are ancient and conserved. In this study we investigate the nuclear genomes of 32 species across all kingdoms of organisms, and all sequences available in GenBank, and address the diversity, evolution, gene structure, conservation and nomenclature of the HSP90 family of genes across all organisms.
Adenosine in vertebrate retina: localization, receptor characterization, and function.	1. The uptake of [3H] adenosine into specific populations of cells in the inner retina has been demonstrated. In mammalian retina, the exogenous adenosine that is transported into cells is phosphorylated, thereby maintaining a gradient for transport of the purine into the cell. 2. Endogenous stores of adenosine have been demonstrated by localization of cells that are labeled for adenosine-like immunoreactivity. In the rabbit retina, certain of these cells, the displaced cholinergic, GABAergic amacrine cells, are also labeled for adenosine. 3. Purines are tonically released from dark-adapted rabbit retinas and cultured embryonic chick retinal neurons. Release is significantly increased with K+ and neurotransmitters. The evoked release consists of adenosine, ATP, and purine metabolites, and while a portion of this release is Ca2+ dependent, one other component may occur via the bidirectional purine nucleoside transporter. 4. Differential distributions of certain enzymes involved in purine metabolism have also been localized to the inner retina. 5. Heterogeneous distributions of the two subtypes of adenosine receptors, A1 and A2, have been demonstrated in the mammalian retina. Coupling of receptors to adenylate cyclase has also been demonstrated. 6. Adenosine A1 receptor agonists significantly inhibit the K(+)-stimulated release of [3H]-acetylcholine from the rabbit retina, suggesting that endogenous adenosine may modulate the light-evoked or tonic release of ACh.
Phylogenetic preservation of alpha3 Na+,K+-ATPase distribution in vertebrate peripheral nervous systems.	The alpha(3) isoform of Na(+),K(+)-ATPase is uniquely expressed in afferent and efferent neurons innervating muscle spindles in the peripheral nervous system (PNS) of adult rats, but the distribution pattern of this isoform in other species has not been investigated. We compared expression of alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG), spinal roots, and skeletal muscle samples of amphibian (frog), reptilian (turtle), avian (pigeon and chicken), and mammalian (mouse and human) species. In all species studied, the alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase isoform was nonuniformly expressed in peripheral ganglia and nerves. In spinal ganglia, only 5-20% of neurons expressed this isoform, and, in avian and mammalian species, these alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase-expressing neurons belonged to a subpopulation of large DRG neurons. In ventral root fibers of pigeons, mice, and humans, the alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase was abundantly expressed predominantly in small myelinated axons. In skeletal muscle samples from turtles, pigeons, mice, and humans, alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase was detected in intramuscular myelinated axons and in profiles of nerve terminals associated with the equatorial and polar regions of muscle spindle intrafusal fibers. These results show that the expression profiles for alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase in the peripheral nervous system of a wide variety of vertebrate species are similar to the profile of rats and suggest that stretch receptor-associated expression of alpha(3) Na(+),K(+)-ATPase is preserved through vertebrate evolution.
Priming of centromere for CENP-A recruitment by human hMis18alpha, hMis18beta, and M18BP1.	The centromere is the chromosomal site that joins to microtubules during mitosis for proper segregation. Determining the location of a centromere-specific histone H3 called CENP-A at the centromere is vital for understanding centromere structure and function. Here, we report the identification of three human proteins essential for centromere/kinetochore structure and function, hMis18alpha, hMis18beta, and M18BP1, the complex of which is accumulated specifically at the telophase-G1 centromere. We provide evidence that such centromeric localization of hMis18 is essential for the subsequent recruitment of de novo-synthesized CENP-A. If any of the three is knocked down by RNAi, centromere recruitment of newly synthesized CENP-A is rapidly abolished, followed by defects such as misaligned chromosomes, anaphase missegregation, and interphase micronuclei. Tricostatin A, an inhibitor to histone deacetylase, suppresses the loss of CENP-A recruitment to centromeres in hMis18alpha RNAi cells. Telophase centromere chromatin may be primed or licensed by the hMis18 complex and RbAp46/48 to recruit CENP-A through regulating the acetylation status in the centromere.
Scale dependence of the correlation between human population presence and vertebrate and plant species richness.	Human presence is generally negatively related to species richness locally, but the relationship is positive at coarse scales. An increase in the strength of the latter correlation with increasing study resolution has been documented within studies, but it is not known whether such a scale dependence is present across different studies. We test this with data on the spatial co-occurrence of human beings and the species richness of plants and vertebrates from a continuum of scales. The correlation coefficient between human presence and species richness is positively related to study grain and extent. The correlation turns from positive to negative below a study grain of c. 1 km and below a study extent of c. 10,000 km(2). The broad-scale positive correlation between human presence and species richness suggests that people have preferentially settled and generally flourished in areas of high biodiversity and/or have contributed to it with species introductions and habitat diversification. The scale dependency of the correlation between people and biodiversity's presence emphasizes the importance of the preservation of green areas in densely populated regions.
Molecular cloning of a putative plant endomembrane protein resembling vertebrate protein disulfide-isomerase and a phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C.	cDNA clones containing sequence similarity to the multifunctional vertebrate protein disulfide-isomerase (PDI, EC 5.3.4.1) were isolated from an alfalfa (Medicago sativa L.) cDNA library by screening with a cDNA sequence encoding human PDI. The polypeptide encoded by a clone designated B2 consisted of 512 amino acids and was characterized by a 24-amino acid hydrophobic leader sequence, two regions with absolute identity to the vertebrate PDI active site (Ala-Pro-Trp-Cys-Gly-His-Cys-Lys), and a C-terminal endoplasmic reticulum retention signal (Lys-Asp-Glu-Leu). The overall identity of the B2 sequence to that of human PDI was 35% at the amino acid level (79% when conservative substitutions were included) and 39% at the nucleotide level; this included homology between B2 and the region of human PDI believed to be involved in binding estrogens. The deduced amino acid sequence of B2 was also 35% identical to that of a rat form I phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. Lysates from Escherichia coli cells harboring an expression plasmid bearing the B2 sequence contained significantly elevated levels of PDI activity. Southern analysis indicated the presence of a small PDI-related gene family in alfalfa, of which B2 appeared to correspond to a single gene. An approximately 2-kilobase B2 transcript was expressed in all alfalfa organs tested. In alfalfa cell suspension cultures, B2 transcripts were strongly induced by tunicamycin but not by exposure to fungal elicitor.
Identification of the endogenous ligands for chicken growth hormone-releasing hormone (GHRH) receptor: evidence for a separate gene encoding GHRH in submammalian vertebrates.	It is generally believed that hypothalamic GHRH activates GHRH receptor (GHRHR) to stimulate GH synthesis and release in the pituitary of mammals. However, the identity of the endogenous ligand of GHRHR is still unresolved in submammalian vertebrates including birds. In this study, we have successfully identified the chicken GHRH (cGHRH) gene, which consists of seven exons including two exons (exons 4 and 5) coding for the predicted mature GHRH peptide of 47 amino acids. Interestingly, the differential usage of splice donor sites at exon 6 results in the generation of two prepro-GHRHs (172 and 188 amino acids in length) with different C-terminal tails. Similar to mammals, cGHRH was detected to be predominantly expressed in the hypothalamus by RT-PCR assay. Using the pGL3-CRE-luciferase reporter system, we further demonstrated that both the synthetic cGHRH peptides (cGHRH(1-47) and cGHRH(1-31)) and conditioned medium from CHO cells expressing cGHRH could strongly induce luciferase activity via activation of cGHRHR, indicating that cGHRH could bind cGHRHR and activate downstream cAMP-protein kinase A signaling pathway. Using the same system, cGHRH-like peptide was also shown to be capable of activating cGHRHR in vitro. As in chicken, a conserved GHRH gene was identified in the genomes of lower vertebrate species including zebrafish, fugu, tetraodon, and Xenopus by synteny analysis. Collectively, our data suggest that GHRH, perhaps together with GHRH-like peptide (chicken/carp-like), may function as the authentic endogenous ligands of GHRHR in chicken as well as in other lower vertebrate species.
Comparison of cytochromes b5 from insects and vertebrates.	We report a 1.55 A X-ray crystal structure of the heme-binding domain of cytochrome b(5) from Musca domestica (house fly; HF b(5)), and compare it with previously published structures of the heme-binding domains of bovine microsomal cytochrome b(5) (bMc b(5)) and rat outer mitochondrial membrane cytochrome b(5) (rOM b(5)). The structural comparison was done in the context of amino acid sequences of all known homologues of the proteins under study. We show that insect b(5)s contain an extended hydrophobic patch at the base of the heme binding pocket, similar to the one previously shown to stabilize mammalian OM b(5)s relative to their Mc counterparts. The hydrophobic patch in insects includes a residue with a bulky hydrophobic side chain at position 71 (Met). Replacing Met71 in HF b(5) with Ser, the corresponding residue in all known mammalian Mc b(5)s, is found to substantially destabilize the holoprotein. The destabilization is a consequence of two related factors: (1) a large decrease in apoprotein stability and (2) extension of conformational disruption in the apoprotein beyond the empty heme binding pocket (core 1) and into the heme-independent folding core (core 2). Analogous changes have previously been shown to accompany replacement of Leu71 in rOM b(5) with Ser. That the stabilizing role of Met71 in HF b(5) is manifested primarily in the apo state is highlighted by the fact that its crystallographic Calpha B factor is modestly larger than that of Ser71 in bMc b(5), indicating that it slightly destabilizes local polypeptide conformation when heme is in its binding pocket. Finally, we show that the final unit of secondary structure in the cytochrome b(5) heme-binding domain, a 3(10) helix known as alpha6, differs substantially in length and packing interactions not only for different protein isoforms but also for given isoforms from different species.
Zebrafish ribonucleases are bactericidal: implications for the origin of the vertebrate RNase A superfamily.	Understanding the evolutionary origin of the ribonuclease (RNase) A superfamily is of great interest because the superfamily is the sole vertebrate-specific enzyme family known to date. Although mammalian RNases have a diverse array of biochemical and physiological functions, the original function of the superfamily at its birth is enigmatic. Such information may be obtained by studying basal lineages of the vertebrate phylogeny and is necessary for discerning how and why this superfamily originated. Here, we clone and characterize 3 RNase genes from the zebrafish, the most basal vertebrate examined for RNases. We report 1) that all the 3 zebrafish RNases are ribonucleolytically active, with one of them having an RNase activity comparable to that of bovine RNase A, the prototype of the superfamily; 2) that 2 zebrafish RNases have prominent expressions in adult liver and gut, whereas the 3rd is expressed in adult eye and heart; and 3) that all 3 RNases have antibacterial activities in vitro. These results, together with the presence of antibacterial and/or antiviral activities in multiple distantly related mammalian RNases, strongly suggest that the superfamily started as a host-defense mechanism in vertebrate evolution.
The outer plate in vertebrate kinetochores is a flexible network with multiple microtubule interactions.	Intricate interactions between kinetochores and microtubules are essential for the proper distribution of chromosomes during mitosis. A crucial long-standing question is how vertebrate kinetochores generate chromosome motion while maintaining attachments to the dynamic plus ends of the multiple kinetochore MTs (kMTs) in a kinetochore fibre. Here, we demonstrate that individual kMTs in PtK(1) cells are attached to the kinetochore outer plate by several fibres that either embed the microtubule plus-end tips in a radial mesh, or extend out from the outer plate to bind microtubule walls. The extended fibres also interact with the walls of nearby microtubules that are not part of the kinetochore fibre. These structural data, in combination with other recent reports, support a network model of kMT attachment wherein the fibrous network in the unbound outer plate, including the Hec1-Ndc80 complex, dissociates and rearranges to form kMT attachments.
Transcriptional regulation of vertebrate axon guidance and synapse formation.	The establishment of functional neural connections requires the growth of axons to specific target areas and the formation of synapses with appropriate synaptic partners. Several molecules that regulate axon guidance and synapse formation have been identified in the past decade, but it is unclear how a relatively limited number of factors can specify a large number of connections. Recent evidence indicates that transcription factors make a crucial contribution to the specification of connections in the nervous system by coordinating the response of neurons to guidance molecules and neurotransmitters.
Consciousness without a cerebral cortex: a challenge for neuroscience and medicine.	A broad range of evidence regarding the functional organization of the vertebrate brain - spanning from comparative neurology to experimental psychology and neurophysiology to clinical data - is reviewed for its bearing on conceptions of the neural organization of consciousness. A novel principle relating target selection, action selection, and motivation to one another, as a means to optimize integration for action in real time, is introduced. With its help, the principal macrosystems of the vertebrate brain can be seen to form a centralized functional design in which an upper brain stem system organized for conscious function performs a penultimate step in action control. This upper brain stem system retained a key role throughout the evolutionary process by which an expanding forebrain - culminating in the cerebral cortex of mammals - came to serve as a medium for the elaboration of conscious contents. This highly conserved upper brainstem system, which extends from the roof of the midbrain to the basal diencephalon, integrates the massively parallel and distributed information capacity of the cerebral hemispheres into the limited-capacity, sequential mode of operation required for coherent behavior. It maintains special connective relations with cortical territories implicated in attentional and conscious functions, but is not rendered nonfunctional in the absence of cortical input. This helps explain the purposive, goal-directed behavior exhibited by mammals after experimental decortication, as well as the evidence that children born without a cortex are conscious. Taken together these circumstances suggest that brainstem mechanisms are integral to the constitution of the conscious state, and that an adequate account of neural mechanisms of conscious function cannot be confined to the thalamocortical complex alone.
Genomic organization, expression, and phylogenetic analysis of Ca2+ channel beta4 genes in 13 vertebrate species.	The Ca(2+) channel beta-subunits, encoded by CACNB genes 1-4, are membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) proteins. As auxiliary subunits of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels, the beta-subunits facilitate membrane trafficking of the pore-forming alpha1 subunits and regulate voltage-dependent channel gating. In this report, we investigate whether two zebrafish beta4 genes, beta4.1 and beta4.2, have diverged in structure and function over time. Comparative expression analyses indicated that beta4.1 and beta4.2 were expressed in separable domains within the developing brain and other tissues. Alternative splicing in both genes was subject to differential temporal and spatial regulation, with some organs expressing different subsets of beta4.1 and beta4.2 transcript variants. We used several genomic tools to identify and compare predicted cDNAs for eight teleost and five tetrapod beta4 genes. Teleost species had either one or two beta4 paralogs, whereas each tetrapod species contained only one. Teleost beta4.1 and beta4.2 genes had regions of sequence divergence, but compared with tetrapod beta4s, they exhibited similar exon/intron structure, strong conservation of residues involved in alpha1 subunit binding, and similar 5' alternative splicing. Phylogenetic results are consistent with the duplicate teleost beta4 genes resulting from the teleost whole genome duplication. Following duplication, the beta4.1 genes have evolved faster than beta4.2 genes. We identified disproportionately large second and third introns in several beta4 genes, which we propose may provide regulatory elements contributing to their differential tissue expression. In sum, both mRNA expression data and phylogenetic analysis support the evolutionary divergence of beta4.1 and beta4.2 subunit function.
Both cell-autonomous and cell non-autonomous functions of GAP-43 are required for normal patterning of the cerebellum in vivo.	Growth-associated protein 43 (GAP-43) is required for development of a functional cerebral cortex in vertebrates; however, its role in cerebellar development is not well understood. Recently, we showed that absence of GAP-43 caused defects in proliferation, differentiation, and polarization of cerebellar granule cells. In this paper, we show that absence of GAP-43 causes defects in cerebellar patterning that reflect both cell-autonomous and non-autonomous functions. Cell-autonomous effects of GAP-43 impact precursor proliferation and axon targeting: In its absence, (1) proliferation of granule cell precursors in response to sonic hedgehog and fibroblast growth factor is inhibited, (2) proliferation of neuroepithelial precursors is inhibited, and (3) targeting of climbing fibers to the central lobe is disrupted. Cell non-autonomous effects of GAP-43 impact differentiated Purkinje cells in which GAP-43 has been downregulated: In its absence, both maturation and mediolateral patterning of Purkinje cells are inhibited. Both cell-autonomous and non-autonomous functions of GAP-43 involve its phosphorylation by protein kinase C. GAP-43 is phosphorylated in granule cell precursors in response to sonic hedgehog in vitro, and phosphorylated GAP-43 is also found in proliferating neuroepithelium and climbing fibers. Phosphorylated GAP-43 is specifically enriched in the presynaptic terminals of parallel and climbing fibers that innervate Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites. The cell-autonomous and non-autonomous effects of GAP-43 converge on the central lobe. The multiple effects of GAP-43 on cerebellar development suggest that it is a critical downstream transducer of signaling mechanisms that integrate generation of cerebellar structure with functional parcellation at the central lobe.
Emergence of hormonal and redox regulation of galectin-1 in placental mammals: implication in maternal-fetal immune tolerance.	Galectin-1 is an anti-inflammatory lectin with pleiotropic regulatory functions at the crossroads of innate and adaptive immunity. It is expressed in immune privileged sites and is implicated in establishing maternal-fetal immune tolerance, which is essential for successful pregnancy in eutherian mammals. Here, we show conserved placental localization of galectin-1 in primates and its predominant expression in maternal decidua. Phylogenetic footprinting and shadowing unveil conserved cis motifs, including an estrogen responsive element in the 5' promoter of LGALS1, that were gained during the emergence of placental mammals and could account for sex steroid regulation of LGALS1 expression, thus providing additional evidence for the role of galectin-1 in immune-endocrine cross-talk. Maximum parsimony and maximum likelihood analyses of 27 publicly available vertebrate and seven newly sequenced primate LGALS1 coding sequences reveal that intense purifying selection has been acting on residues in the carbohydrate recognition domain and dimerization interface that are involved in immune functions. Parsimony- and codon model-based phylogenetic analysis of coding sequences show that amino acid replacements occurred in early mammalian evolution on key residues, including gain of cysteines, which regulate immune functions by redox status-mediated conformational changes that disable sugar binding and dimerization, and that the acquired immunoregulatory functions of galectin-1 then became highly conserved in eutherian lineages, suggesting the emergence of hormonal and redox regulation of galectin-1 in placental mammals may be implicated in maternal-fetal immune tolerance.
Taxonomic and regional uncertainty in species-area relationships and the identification of richness hotspots.	Species-area relationships (SARs) are fundamental to the study of key and high-profile issues in conservation biology and are particularly widely used in establishing the broad patterns of biodiversity that underpin approaches to determining priority areas for biological conservation. Classically, the SAR has been argued in general to conform to a power-law relationship, and this form has been widely assumed in most applications in the field of conservation biology. Here, using nonlinear regressions within an information theoretical model selection framework, we included uncertainty regarding both model selection and parameter estimation in SAR modeling and conducted a global-scale analysis of the form of SARs for vascular plants and major vertebrate groups across 792 terrestrial ecoregions representing almost 97% of Earth's inhabited land. The results revealed a high level of uncertainty in model selection across biomes and taxa, and that the power-law model is clearly the most appropriate in only a minority of cases. Incorporating this uncertainty into a hotspots analysis using multimodel SARs led to the identification of a dramatically different set of global richness hotspots than when the power-law SAR was assumed. Our findings suggest that the results of analyses that assume a power-law model may be at severe odds with real ecological patterns, raising significant concerns for conservation priority-setting schemes and biogeographical studies.
The sequence specificity of vertebrate DNA methylation.	The relative quantity of 5-methyl cytosine in vertebrate nuclear DNA shows species and tissue variation. To determine whether this is due to the action of species or cell specific DNA methylases the sequence specificity of the 5-methyl cytosine distribution in the DNA of a range of cells has been partially characterised. The pattern of methylation was found to be remarkably constant and indicates stringent evolutionary conservation of the characteristics of vertebrate DNA methylation.
An analysis of vertebrate mRNA sequences: intimations of translational control.	Five structural features in mRNAs have been found to contribute to the fidelity and efficiency of initiation by eukaryotic ribosomes. Scrutiny of vertebrate cDNA sequences in light of these criteria reveals a set of transcripts--encoding oncoproteins, growth factors, transcription factors, and other regulatory proteins--that seem designed to be translated poorly. Thus, throttling at the level of translation may be a critical component of gene regulation in vertebrates. An alternative interpretation is that some (perhaps many) cDNAs with encumbered 5' noncoding sequences represent mRNA precursors, which would imply extensive regulation at a posttranscriptional step that precedes translation.
The fat tumor suppressor gene in Drosophila encodes a novel member of the cadherin gene superfamily.	Recessive lethal mutations in the fat locus of Drosophila cause hyperplastic, tumor-like overgrowth of larval imaginal discs, defects in differentiation and morphogenesis, and death during the pupal stage. Clones of mutant cells induced by mitotic recombination demonstrate that the overgrowth phenotype is cell autonomous. Here we show that the fat locus encodes a novel member of the cadherin gene superfamily: an enormous transmembrane protein of over 5000 amino acids with a putative signal sequence, 34 tandem cadherin domains, four EGF-like repeats, a transmembrane domain, and a novel cytoplasmic domain. Two recessive lethal alleles contain alterations in the fat coding sequence, and the dominant fat allele, Gull, contains an insertion of a transposable element in the 33rd cadherin domain. Thus, this novel member of the cadherin gene superfamily functions as a tumor suppressor gene and is required for correct morphogenesis.
Neighborhood aggregation effect and its effective scale on reproductive success in Shorea laxa (Dipterocarpaceae).	This study investigated whether reproductive success is affected by the intensity of neighborhood aggregation of adults in the tropical tree Shorea laxa. We focused on three processes in the early reproductive stages: seed maturation; seed survival (categorizing sound seed, predation by insects and predation by vertebrates) in pre-seed dispersal; and seedling survival in the post-seed dispersal stage. We used a model selection procedure to examine the aggregation effect on reproductive success. The intensity of neighborhood aggregation was represented by the neighborhood aggregation index, which contains the adult number within a specific radius and the distances to neighboring adults (weight of proximity). Then, we evaluated the models exhaustively with the aggregation index having different scales (radius and weight of proximity) to assess the scale on which aggregation had significant effects. In particular, the best effective neighborhood scale, which is defined as the scale of the index in the model with minimum Akaike information criterion, was examined to compare those scales among processes. We found that the probability of seed maturation, seed survival and seedling survival decreased with the aggregation index at specific scales. This suggests that aggregation influenced reproductive success negatively in both the pre- and post-seed dispersal stages. However, the selected radii differed among processes: >200 and 130 m in pre- and post-seed dispersal stages, respectively. The selected weight of proximity also seemed to have a weak effect on all processes and was not different among processes.
Quantitative determination of rDNA transcription units in vertebrate cells.	The adenosine analogue 5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole (DRB) unravels the compact nucleoli to necklace-like structures when applied to living cells. The nucleolar beads contain RNA polymerase I (RPI) and argyrophilic proteins, both properties considered to be characteristic of ribosomal gene activity. Each granule is supposed to represent a single transcription unit consisting of an actively transcribing gene and its RPI complex. Indirect immunofluorescence with anti-RPI antibodies was used to determine the number of transcription units in DRB-treated cells of some representative mammals, marsupials, birds, and amphibians. We estimate that 45 to 145 rRNA genes are transcriptionally active in vertebrate fibroblasts, depending on the species. Nucleolar transcriptional activity does not correlate with the total number of rRNA genes. During in vitro aging of fibroblasts, the number of transcription units appears to remain unchanged. Different cell types of one same organism show varying numbers of transcription units, reflecting their differential metabolic activity. A particular situation exists in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated lymphocytes. In the course of nucleolar activation, the number of transcription units is increased considerably, implying that formerly inactive rRNA genes are recruited for transcription. The opposite phenomenon is observed during spermatogenesis. With the diploid spermatocytes developing into haploid spermatids, the transcriptionally active rRNA genes decrease in number until rRNA synthesis is completely blocked.
A general basis for cognition in the evolution of synapse signaling complexes.	Beneath the complexity of the human brain are molecular principles shaped by evolution explaining the origins of the behavioral repertoire. The role of the nervous system is to provide a repertoire of behaviors allowing the animal to respond and adapt to changing environments during the course of its life. Multiprotein complexes in the postsynaptic terminal of synapses control adaptive and cognitive processes in metazoan nervous systems. These multiprotein complexes are organized into molecular networks that detect and respond to patterns of neural activity. Combinations of proteins are used to build different complexes and pathways producing great diversity. These complexes evolved from an ancestral core set of proteins controlling adaptive behaviors in unicellular organisms known as the protosynapse. Later expansion in numbers and interactions resulted in more complex synapses in invertebrates and vertebrates. The resultant combinatorial complexity has contributed to the neuroanatomical, neurophysiological, and behavioral diversity in these species. Mutations in genes encoding the complexes result in many human diseases of the nervous system. This general mechanism of cognition provides a useful template for studying evolution of behavior in all animals.
Identification of key cytosolic kinases containing evolutionarily conserved kinase tyrosine-based inhibitory motifs (KTIMs).	We previously reported that SHP-1 regulates IRAK-1 activity by binding to an ITIM-like motif found within its kinase domain, which we named kinase tyrosine-based inhibitory motif (KTIM). Herein, we further investigated the presence, number, location, and evolutionary time of emergence of potential KTIMs in many cytosolic kinases, all known to play important roles in the signalling and function of immune cells. We unveil that several kinases contain potential KTIMs, mostly located within their kinase domain and appearing predominantly at the level of early vertebrates becoming highly conserved thereafter. Regarding the KTIMs that were found conserved in both vertebrates and invertebrates, we provide experimental data suggesting that such motifs may have constituted readily available sites that performed new regulatory functions as soon as their binding partners (e.g. SHP-1) appeared in vertebrates. We thus propose KTIMs as novel regulatory motifs in kinases that function through binding to SH2 domain-containing proteins such as SHP-1.
Structural analysis of neural circuits using the theory of directed graphs.	A new approach to analysis of structural properties of biological neural circuits is proposed based on their representation in the form of abstract structures called directed graphs. To exemplify this methodology, structural properties of a biological neural network and randomly wired circuits (RC) were compared. The analyzed biological circuit (BC) represented a sample of 39 neural nuclei which are responsible for the control of the cardiovascular function in higher vertebrates. Initially, direct connections of both circuits were stored in a square matrix format. Then, standard algorithms derived from the theory of directed graphs were applied to analyze the pathways of the circuits according to their length (in number of synapses), degree of connectedness, and structural strength. Thus, the BC was characterized by the presence of short, reciprocal, and unidirectional pathways which presented a high degree of heterogeneity in their strengths. This heterogeneity was mainly due to the existence of a small cluster of reciprocally connected neural nuclei in the circuit that have access, through short pathways, to most of the network. On the other hand, RCs were characterized by the presence of long and mainly reciprocal pathways which showed lower and absolute homogeneous strengths. Through this study the proposed methodology was demonstrated to be a simple and efficient way to store, analyze, and compare basic neuroanatomical information.
The monoclonal antibody 2G8 is carbohydrate-specific and distinguishes between different forms of vertebrate cholinesterases.	The monoclonal antibody (mAb) 2G8 (subclass IgG2a) raised against acetylcholinesterase (AChE, EC 3.1.1.7) from electric organ of Torpedo nacline timilei crossreacted with AChE from Torpedo marmorata, electric eel (Electrophorus electricus), flounder (Platichthys flesus) body muscle, rat brain, bovine brain, and human brain, this suggests that the epitope to which mAb 2G8 bound had been highly conserved during evolution. No crossreaction was found with AChE from human and bovine erythrocytes, nor with butyrylcholinesterase (BtChE, EC 3.1.1.8) from human serum. Binding of mAb 2G8 to the globular G2 form of AChE from T. marmorata strongly decreased enzyme activity, while no significant inhibition was found with either collagen-tailed, asymmetric forms, or with the enzymes from flounder body muscle or mammalian sources. The possibility that mAb 2G8 bound to anionic sites of AChE could be excluded since neither edrophonium chloride nor decamethonium bromide influenced the binding of 2G8 to the enzymes. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Western blot showed that heat-denatured, diisopropylfluorophosphate-treated, CNBr- and trypsin-digested AChE from T. marmorata still reacted with mAb 2G8; this indicates that the epitope to which 2G8 bound, at least partially, belonged to a continuous determinant. Treatment of cholinesterases with N-glycosidase F abolished crossreaction with 2G8, showing that an essential part of the epitope consisted of N-linked carbohydrates.
Amino acid sequence of a globin from the sea cucumber Caudina (Molpadia) arenicola.	Coelomic cells from the sea cucumber Caudina (Molpadia) arenicola contain four major globins, A, B, C and D. The hemoglobins from this organism show unusual ligand-linked dissociation properties. The complete amino acid sequence of the D globin has been established. It is N-acetylated, consists of 158 residues and has a 10 amino acid N-terminal extension similar to that found in some other invertebrate globins. The C. arenicola D globin has an equal sequence identity (28%) with both alpha and beta human globins and as anticipated, is more closely related to these vertebrate proteins than are molluscan globins. The C. arenicola D globin shows a 59% identity with the globin I from the sea cucumber Paracaudina chilensis. The availability of the C. arenicola D globin sequence will aid the X-ray analysis of this protein and facilitate an understanding of the changes in subunit interactions that occur with cooperative ligand binding.
Vertebrate retina and hypothalamus development.	The vertebrate retina and hypothalamus, which emerge from adjacent regions of the ventral diencephalon, provide accessible experimental systems for analysis of the molecular mechanisms by which neuronal subtype diversity is specified, and how this neuronal subtype diversity regulates perception and behavior. Although the retina emerges as a lateral extension of the hypothalamus prior to the onset of neurogenesis, the retina and hypothalamus go on to eventually be comprised of almost entirely different cell types, and differ extensively in the spatial organization, function, and connectivity of these cells. Despite these differences in cell composition, there are a number of mechanistic and molecular similarities in the process of cell fate specification in both organs, including a stereotyped temporal sequence in which major cell types are generated. Although a handful of genes have been identified in both systems that direct cell fate specification, many more remain to be characterized, and large numbers of candidate genes have been identified in recent high-throughput screens, particularly in retina. Experimental challenges for the near future include functional analysis of the genes identified so far, and the use of the molecular pathways gained from analysis of the development of specific neuronal lineages to study the contribution of these cells to perception and behavior.
Heart rate and heart failure. Not a simple relationship.	Resting heart rate (HR) is increased in patients with heart failure (HF). Sustained tachycardia can cause HF. The magnitude of HR reduction in treatment trials of patients with HF is associated with a reduction in mortality. Yet, the mechanistic and causal role of HR in HF is unclear, and recent trials with selective HR reduction have not consistently achieved benefit: the BEAUTIFUL trial in patients with coronary artery disease and left ventricular dysfunction did not achieve a significant benefit in the primary endpoint, and only the coronary outcome, not the HF outcome, was improved; in the SHIFT trial, however, patients with symptomatic heart failure had a significant benefit in the primary endpoint of cardiovascular mortality and hospitalization for worsening HF. The present review addresses the pathophysiology of tachycardia-induced HF, the force-frequency relationship, and the clinical potential of HR reduction in HF.
Characterization of the deleted in autism 1 protein family: implications for studying cognitive disorders.	Autism spectrum disorders (ASDs) are a group of commonly occurring, highly-heritable developmental disabilities. Human genes c3orf58 or Deleted In Autism-1 (DIA1) and cXorf36 or Deleted in Autism-1 Related (DIA1R) are implicated in ASD and mental retardation. Both gene products encode signal peptides for targeting to the secretory pathway. As evolutionary medicine has emerged as a key tool for understanding increasing numbers of human diseases, we have used an evolutionary approach to study DIA1 and DIA1R. We found DIA1 conserved from cnidarians to humans, indicating DIA1 evolution coincided with the development of the first primitive synapses. Nematodes lack a DIA1 homologue, indicating Caenorhabditis elegans is not suitable for studying all aspects of ASD etiology, while zebrafish encode two DIA1 paralogues. By contrast to DIA1, DIA1R was found exclusively in vertebrates, with an origin coinciding with the whole-genome duplication events occurring early in the vertebrate lineage, and the evolution of the more complex vertebrate nervous system. Strikingly, DIA1R was present in schooling fish but absent in fish that have adopted a more solitary lifestyle. An additional DIA1-related gene we named DIA1-Like (DIA1L), lacks a signal peptide and is restricted to the genomes of the echinoderm Strongylocentrotus purpuratus and cephalochordate Branchiostoma floridae. Evidence for remarkable DIA1L gene expansion was found in B. floridae. Amino acid alignments of DIA1 family gene products revealed a potential Golgi-retention motif and a number of conserved motifs with unknown function. Furthermore, a glycine and three cysteine residues were absolutely conserved in all DIA1-family proteins, indicating a critical role in protein structure and/or function. We have therefore identified a new metazoan protein family, the DIA1-family, and understanding the biological roles of DIA1-family members will have implications for our understanding of autism and mental retardation.
The Ndc80 complex uses a tripartite attachment point to couple microtubule depolymerization to chromosome movement.	In kinetochores, the Ndc80 complex couples the energy in a depolymerizing microtubule to perform the work of moving chromosomes. The complex directly binds microtubules using an unstructured, positively charged N-terminal tail located on Hec1/Ndc80. Hec1/Ndc80 also contains a calponin homology domain (CHD) that increases its affinity for microtubules in vitro, yet whether it is required in cells and how the tail and CHD work together are critical unanswered questions. Human kinetochores containing Hec1/Ndc80 with point mutations in the CHD fail to align chromosomes or form productive microtubule attachments. Kinetochore architecture and spindle checkpoint protein recruitment are unaffected in these mutants, and the loss of CHD function cannot be rescued by removing Aurora B sites from the tail. The interaction between the Hec1/Ndc80 CHD and a microtubule is facilitated by positively charged amino acids on two separate regions of the CHD, and both are required for kinetochores to make stable attachments to microtubules. Chromosome congression in cells also requires positive charge on the Hec1 tail to facilitate microtubule contact. In vitro binding data suggest that charge on the tail regulates attachment by directly increasing microtubule affinity as well as driving cooperative binding of the CHD. These data argue that in vertebrates there is a tripartite attachment point facilitating the interaction between Hec1/Ndc80 and microtubules. We discuss how such a complex microtubule-binding interface may facilitate the coupling of depolymerization to chromosome movement.
Vertebrates used for medicinal purposes by members of the Nyishi and Galo tribes in Arunachal Pradesh (North-East India).	Arunachal Pradesh, the easternmost part of India, is endowed with diverse natural resources and inhabited by a variety of ethnic groups that have developed skills to exploit the biotic resources of the region for food and medicines. Information on animals and animal parts as components of folk remedies used by local healers and village headmen of the Nyishi and Galo tribes in their respective West Siang and Subansiri districts were obtained through interviews and structured questionnaires. Of a total of 36 vertebrate species used in treatments of ailments and diseases, mammals comprised 50%; they were followed by birds (22%), fishes (17%), reptiles (8%) and amphibians (3%). Approximately 20 common complaints of humans as well as foot and mouth disease of cattle were targets of zootherapies. Most commonly treated were fevers, body aches and pains, tuberculosis, malaria, wounds and burns, typhoid, smallpox, dysentery and diarrhoea, jaundice, and early pregnancy pains. Very few domestic animal species (e.g., goat and cattle) were used zootherapeutically. More frequently it was wild animals, including endangered or protective species like hornbill, pangolin, clouded leopard, tiger, bear, and wolf, whose various parts were either used in folk remedies or as food. Some of the animal-based traditional medicines or animal parts were sold at local markets, where they had to compete with modern, western pharmaceuticals. To record, document, analyze and test the animal-derived local medicines before they become replaced by western products is one challenge; to protect the already dwindling populations of certain wild animal species used as a resource for the traditional animal-derived remedies, is another.
Emergent insights from the synthesis of conceptual frameworks for biological invasions.	A general understanding of biological invasions will provide insights into fundamental ecological and evolutionary problems and contribute to more efficient and effective prediction, prevention and control of invasions. We review recent papers that have proposed conceptual frameworks for invasion biology. These papers offer important advances and signal a maturation of the field, but a broad synthesis is still lacking. Conceptual frameworks for invasion do not require invocation of unique concepts, but rather should reflect the unifying principles of ecology and evolutionary biology. A conceptual framework should incorporate multicausality, include interactions between causal factors and account for lags between various stages. We emphasize the centrality of demography in invasions, and distinguish between explaining three of the most important characteristics by which we recognize invasions: rapid local population increase, monocultures or community dominance, and range expansion. As a contribution towards developing a conceptual synthesis of invasions based on these criteria, we outline a framework that explicitly incorporates consideration of the fundamental ecological and evolutionary processes involved. The development of a more inclusive and mechanistic conceptual framework for invasion should facilitate quantitative and testable evaluation of causal factors, and can potentially lead to a better understanding of the biology of invasions.
The evolution of sleep circadian cycle and telencephalo-diencephalic interaction in vertebrates]	The modem representations of wakefulness-sleep cycle evolution and the data about dynamics of reactivity of activating and inhibition neurotransmitter systems of the forebrain, converging in striatum, in cold- and warm-blooded vertebrates are considered. The data about dynamics of immune reactivity of vasopressin- and oxytocinergic cells of paraventricular and supraoptical hypothalamic nuclei is presented. On the basis of the obtained results, the idea of the leading role of telencephalo-diencephalic interactions in activation of somnogenic processes and their possible mechanisms is advanced.
Blood-feeding ecology of mosquitoes in zoos.	To determine if the unique host assemblages in zoos influence blood-feeding by mosquitoes (Diptera: Culicidae), a sampling programme was conducted in Greenville and Riverbanks Zoos, South Carolina, U.S.A., from April 2009 to October 2010. A total of 4355 female mosquitoes of 14 species were collected, of which 106 individuals of nine species were blood-fed. The most common taxa were Aedes albopictus (Skuse), Aedes triseriatus (Say), Anopheles punctipennis (Say), Culex erraticus (Dyar & Knab), Culex pipiens complex (L.) and Culex restuans (Theobald). Molecular analyses (cytochrome b) of bloodmeals revealed that mosquitoes fed on captive animals, humans and wildlife, and took mixed bloodmeals. Host species included one amphibian, 16 birds, 10 mammals (including humans) and two reptiles. Minimum dispersal distances after feeding on captive hosts ranged from 15.5 m to 327.0 m. Mosquito-host associations generally conformed to previous accounts, indicating that mosquito behaviour inside zoos reflects that outside zoos. However, novel variation in host use, including new, exotic host records, warrants further investigation. Zoos, thus, can be used as experiment environments in which to study mosquito behaviour, and the findings extrapolated to non-zoo areas, while providing medical and veterinary benefits to zoo animals, employees and patrons.
Molecular cloning and pharmacological characterization of two novel GnRH receptors in the lamprey (Petromyzon marinus).	This paper reports the identification, expression, binding kinetics, and functional studies of two novel type III lamprey GnRH receptors (lGnRH-R-2 and lGnRH-R-3) in the sea lamprey, a basal vertebrate. These novel GnRH receptors share the structural features and amino acid motifs common to other known gnathostome GnRH receptors. The ligand specificity and activation of intracellular signaling studies showed ligands lGnRH-II and -III induced an inositol phosphate (IP) response at lGnRH-R-2 and lGnRH-R-3, whereas the ligand lGnRH-I did not stimulate an IP response. lGnRH-II was a more potent activator of lGnRH-R-3 than lGnRH-III. Stimulation of lGnRH-R-2 and lGnRH-R-3 testing all three lGnRH ligands did not elicit a cAMP response. lGnRH-R-2 has a higher binding affinity in response to lGnRH-III than lGnRH-II, whereas lGnRH-R-3 has a higher binding affinity in response to lGnRH-II than IGnRH-III. lGnRH-R-2 precursor transcript was detected in a wide variety of tissues including the pituitary whereas lGnRH-R-3 precursor transcript was not as widely expressed and primarily expressed in the brain and eye of male and female lampreys. From our phylogenetic analysis, we propose that lGnRH-R-1 evolved from a common ancestor of all vertebrate GnRH receptors and lGnRH-R-2 and lGnRH-R-3 likely occurred due to a gene duplication within the lamprey lineage. In summary, we propose from our findings of receptor subtypes in the sea lamprey that the evolutionary recruitment of specific pituitary GnRH receptor subtypes for particular physiological functions seen in later evolved vertebrates was an ancestral character that first arose in a basal vertebrate.
Sex and the circuitry: progress toward a systems-level understanding of vertebrate sex determination.	In vertebrates, the gonad arises as a bipotential primordium that can differentiate as a testis or ovary. Cells are initially primed to adopt either fate by balanced antagonistic signaling pathways and transcription networks. Sexual fate is determined by activating the testis or ovarian pathway and repressing the alternative pathway. A complex, dynamic transcription network underlies this process, as approximately half the genome is being transcribed during this period, and many genes are expressed in a sexually dimorphic manner. This network is highly plastic; however, multiple lines of evidence suggest that many elements of the pathway converge on the stabilization or disruption of Sox9 expression. The single gene mutational approach has led to the identification of 30 additional genes involved in vertebrate sex determination. However, >50% of human disorders of sexual development (DSDs) are not explained by any of these genes, suggesting many critical elements of the system await discovery. Emerging technologies and genetic resources enable the investigation of the sex determination network on a global scale in the context of a variable genetic background or environmental influences. Using these new tools we can investigate how cells establish a bipotential state that is poised to adopt either sexual fate, and how they integrate multiple signaling and transcriptional inputs to drive a cell fate decision. Elucidating the genetic architecture underlying sex determination in model systems can lead to the identification of conserved modules correlated with phenotypic outcomes, and critical pressure points in the network that predict genes involved in DSDs in humans.
Evolution of a tissue-specific silencer underlies divergence in the expression of pax2 and pax8 paralogues.	Recent studies underscore a role for the differential degeneration of enhancers in the evolutionary diversification of paralogue expression. However, no one has reported evidence for the involvement of innovative cis-regulatory changes. Here we show that silencer innovation diversified expression of the vertebrate paralogues, pax2 and pax8. pax2 shows multi-tissue expression, as does the ancestral amphioxus orthologue, pax2/5/8, whereas pax8 expression localizes to a subset of pax2-expressing tissues. We reveal that both pax2 and pax8 retain ancestral enhancers capable of directing pax2-like, multi-tissue expression. However, a silencer within the pax8 proximal promoter suppresses pleiotropic enhancer activity outside the pax8-expressing tissues. In contrast, the combination of the pax2 proximal promoter with either the pax8 or pax2 enhancer recapitulates pax2-like expression, as in the amphioxus pax2/5/8 promoter. We propose that silencer innovation, rather than enhancer degeneration, was crucial for the divergent expression of paralogues with pleiotropic enhancers inherited from their common progenitor.
Wildlife uses and hunting patterns in rural communities of the Yucatan Peninsula, Mexico.	Subsistence hunting is a traditional practice providing food and many other goods for households in the Yucatan Peninsula, southeast Mexico. Economic, demographic, and cultural change in this region drive wildlife habitat loss and local extinctions. Improving our understanding about current practices of wildlife use may support better management strategies for conserving game species and their habitat. We aimed to evaluate if wildlife use remained relevant for the subsistence of rural residents of the Yucatan Peninsula, as well as if local hunting practices were related to environmental, geographical, and cultural factors.
Estimating the biological half-life for radionuclides in homoeothermic vertebrates: a simplified allometric approach.	The application of allometric, or mass-dependent, relationships within radioecology has increased with the evolution of models to predict the exposure of organisms other than man. Allometry presents a method of addressing the lack of empirical data on radionuclide transfer and metabolism for the many radionuclide-species combinations which may need to be considered. However, sufficient data across a range of species with different masses are required to establish allometric relationships and this is not always available. Here, an alternative allometric approach to predict the biological half-life of radionuclides in homoeothermic vertebrates which does not require such data is derived. Biological half-life values are predicted for four radionuclides and compared to available data for a range of species. All predictions were within a factor of five of the observed values when the model was parameterised appropriate to the feeding strategy of each species. This is an encouraging level of agreement given that the allometric models are intended to provide broad approximations rather than exact values. However, reasons why some radionuclides deviate from what would be anticipated from Kleiber's law need to be determined to allow a more complete exploitation of the potential of allometric extrapolation within radioecological models. 
Marine ecosystem responses to Cenozoic global change.	The future impacts of anthropogenic global change on marine ecosystems are highly uncertain, but insights can be gained from past intervals of high atmospheric carbon dioxide partial pressure. The long-term geological record reveals an early Cenozoic warm climate that supported smaller polar ecosystems, few coral-algal reefs, expanded shallow-water platforms, longer food chains with less energy for top predators, and a less oxygenated ocean than today. The closest analogs for our likely future are climate transients, 10,000 to 200,000 years in duration, that occurred during the long early Cenozoic interval of elevated warmth. Although the future ocean will begin to resemble the past greenhouse world, it will retain elements of the present "icehouse" world long into the future. Changing temperatures and ocean acidification, together with rising sea level and shifts in ocean productivity, will keep marine ecosystems in a state of continuous change for 100,000 years. 
Ecological consequences of sea-ice decline.	After a decade with nine of the lowest arctic sea-ice minima on record, including the historically low minimum in 2012, we synthesize recent developments in the study of ecological responses to sea-ice decline. Sea-ice loss emerges as an important driver of marine and terrestrial ecological dynamics, influencing productivity, species interactions, population mixing, gene flow, and pathogen and disease transmission. Major challenges in the near future include assigning clearer attribution to sea ice as a primary driver of such dynamics, especially in terrestrial systems, and addressing pressures arising from human use of arctic coastal and near-shore areas as sea ice diminishes. 
Normalized feature vectors: a novel alignment-free sequence comparison method based on the numbers of adjacent amino acids.	Based on all kinds of adjacent amino acids (AAA), we map each protein primary sequence into a 400 by ((L-1)) matrix (M). In addition, we further derive a normalized 400-tuple mathematical descriptors (D), which is extracted from the primary protein sequences via singular values decomposition (SVD) of the matrix. The obtained 400-D normalized feature vectors (NFVs) further facilitate our quantitative analysis of protein sequences. Using the normalized representation of the primary protein sequences, we analyze the similarity for different sequences upon two data sets: 1) ND5 sequences from nine species and 2) transferrin sequences of 24 vertebrates. We also compared the results in this study with those from other related works. These two experiments illustrate that our proposed NFV-AAA approach does perform well in the field of similarity analysis of sequence.
Phylogenic distribution of human renal antigens defined by monoclonal antibodies]	The preparation fo five monoclonal antibodies specific of important human renal histologic structures both functionally and organogenetically has permitted to identify the repartition of the corresponding antigens in the vertebrate phylum. For three of them, appeared a clear cut histologic identity in intensity and localization between the mammals studied and man. For the two others a phylogenic and histologic dispersion was observed. It may be supposed, in the latter case, that the evolution and the biotope have acted in different manners on renal function and organogenesis according to the vertebrate classes or species investigated.
Pepsinogen-like immunoreactivity among vertebrates: occurrence of common antigenicity to an anti-chicken pepsinogen antiserum in stomach gland cells of vertebrates.	Stomachs of 14 species selected from five classes of vertebrate were surveyed concerning the reactivity to an anti-adult chicken pepsinogen antiserum (anti-ACPg) with indirect immunofluorescence method. Gland cells of all these stomachs showed reactivity to the antiserum. Crude extract of stomachs from five representatives of mammals, birds, amphibians and fish showed peptic activity (at pH 2.2) of which 70-90% were pepstatin-sensitive. Zymogram and immunoblotting of crude extract revealed that the anti-ACPg-reactive proteins have peptic activity. Molecular weights of anti-ACPg-reactive proteins determined by immunoblotting coincided with the values of purified pepsinogens previously reported for these animals. These results indicate that pepsinogens have been conserved well during vertebrate evolution.
The lamprey: a jawless vertebrate model system for examining origin of the neural crest and other vertebrate traits.	Lampreys are a group of jawless fishes that serve as an important point of comparison for studies of vertebrate evolution. Lampreys and hagfishes are agnathan fishes, the cyclostomes, which sit at a crucial phylogenetic position as the only living sister group of the jawed vertebrates. Comparisons between cyclostomes and jawed vertebrates can help identify shared derived (i.e. synapomorphic) traits that might have been inherited from ancestral early vertebrates, if unlikely to have arisen convergently by chance. One example of a uniquely vertebrate trait is the neural crest, an embryonic tissue that produces many cell types crucial to vertebrate features, such as the craniofacial skeleton, pigmentation of the skin, and much of the peripheral nervous system (Gans and Northcutt, 1983). Invertebrate chordates arguably lack unambiguous neural crest homologs, yet have cells with some similarities, making comparisons with lampreys and jawed vertebrates essential for inferring characteristics of development in early vertebrates, and how they may have evolved from nonvertebrate chordates. Here we review recent research on cyclostome neural crest development, including research on lamprey gene regulatory networks and differentiated neural crest fates. 
SynChro: a fast and easy tool to reconstruct and visualize synteny blocks along eukaryotic chromosomes.	Reconstructing synteny blocks is an essential step in comparative genomics studies. Different methods were already developed to answer various needs such as genome (re-)annotation, identification of duplicated regions and whole genome duplication events or estimation of rearrangement rates. We present SynChro, a tool that reconstructs synteny blocks between pairwise comparisons of multiple genomes. SynChro is based on a simple algorithm that computes Reciprocal Best-Hits (RBH) to reconstruct the backbones of the synteny blocks and then automatically completes these blocks with non-RBH syntenic homologs. This approach has two main advantages: (i) synteny block reconstruction is fast (feasible on a desk computer for large eukaryotic genomes such as human) and (ii) synteny block reconstruction is straightforward as all steps are integrated (no need to run Blast or TribeMCL prior to reconstruction) and there is only one parameter to set up, the synteny block stringency [Formula: see text]. Benchmarks on three pairwise comparisons of genomes, representing three different levels of synteny conservation (Human/Mouse, Human/Zebra Finch and Human/Zebrafish) show that Synchro runs faster and performs at least as well as two other commonly used and more sophisticated tools (MCScanX and i-ADHoRe). In addition, SynChro provides the user with a rich set of graphical outputs including dotplots, chromosome paintings and detailed synteny maps to visualize synteny blocks with all homology relationships and synteny breakpoints with all included genetic features. SynChro is freely available under the BSD license at http://www.lcqb.upmc.fr/CHROnicle/SynChro.html. 
A combination of activation and repression by a colinear Hox code controls forelimb-restricted expression of Tbx5 and reveals Hox protein specificity.	Tight control over gene expression is essential for precision in embryonic development and acquisition of the regulatory elements responsible is the predominant driver for evolution of new structures. Tbx5 and Tbx4, two genes expressed in forelimb and hindlimb-forming regions respectively, play crucial roles in the initiation of limb outgrowth. Evolution of regulatory elements that activate Tbx5 in rostral LPM was essential for the acquisition of forelimbs in vertebrates. We identified such a regulatory element for Tbx5 and demonstrated Hox genes are essential, direct regulators. While the importance of Hox genes in regulating embryonic development is clear, Hox targets and the ways in which each protein executes its specific function are not known. We reveal how nested Hox expression along the rostro-caudal axis restricts Tbx5 expression to forelimb. We demonstrate that Hoxc9, which is expressed in caudal LPM where Tbx5 is not expressed, can form a repressive complex on the Tbx5 forelimb regulatory element. This repressive capacity is limited to Hox proteins expressed in caudal LPM and carried out by two separate protein domains in Hoxc9. Forelimb-restricted expression of Tbx5 and ultimately forelimb formation is therefore achieved through co-option of two characteristics of Hox genes; their colinear expression along the body axis and the functional specificity of different paralogs. Active complexes can be formed by Hox PG proteins present throughout the rostral-caudal LPM while restriction of Tbx5 expression is achieved by superimposing a dominant repressive (Hoxc9) complex that determines the caudal boundary of Tbx5 expression. Our results reveal the regulatory mechanism that ensures emergence of the forelimbs at the correct position along the body. Acquisition of this regulatory element would have been critical for the evolution of limbs in vertebrates and modulation of the factors we have identified can be molecular drivers of the diversity in limb morphology. 
The synaptonemal complex of basal metazoan hydra: more similarities to vertebrate than invertebrate meiosis model organisms.	The synaptonemal complex (SC) is an evolutionarily well-conserved structure that mediates chromosome synapsis during prophase of the first meiotic division. Although its structure is conserved, the characterized protein components in the current metazoan meiosis model systems (Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans, and Mus musculus) show no sequence homology, challenging the question of a single evolutionary origin of the SC. However, our recent studies revealed the monophyletic origin of the mammalian SC protein components. Many of them being ancient in Metazoa and already present in the cnidarian Hydra. Remarkably, a comparison between different model systems disclosed a great similarity between the SC components of Hydra and mammals while the proteins of the ecdysozoan systems (D. melanogaster and C. elegans) differ significantly. In this review, we introduce the basal-branching metazoan species Hydra as a potential novel invertebrate model system for meiosis research and particularly for the investigation of SC evolution, function and assembly. Also, available methods for SC research in Hydra are summarized. 
Endoplasmic reticulum stress in vertebrate mutant rhodopsin models of retinal degeneration.	Rhodopsin mutations cause many types of heritable retinitis pigmentosa (RP). Biochemical and in vitro studies have demonstrated that many RP-linked mutant rhodopsins produce misfolded rhodopsin proteins, which are prone to aggregation and retention within the endoplasmic reticulum, where they cause endoplasmic reticulum stress and activate the Unfolded Protein Response signaling pathways. Many vertebrate models of retinal degeneration have been created through expression of RP-linked rhodopsins in photoreceptors including, but not limited to, VPP/GHL mice, P23H Rhodopsin frogs, P23H rhodopsin rats, S334ter rhodopsin rats, C185R rhodopsin mice, T17M rhodopsin mice, and P23H rhodopsin mice. These models have provided many opportunities to test therapeutic strategies to prevent retinal degeneration and also enabled in vivo investigation of cellular and molecular mechanisms responsible for photoreceptor cell death. Here, we examine and compare the contribution of endoplasmic reticulum stress to retinal degeneration in several vertebrate models of RP generated through expression of mutant rhodopsins. 
Evolution of the mitochondrial genetic code. I. Origin of AGR serine and stop codons in metazoan mitochondria.	AGA and AGG (AGR) are arginine codons in the universal genetic code. These codons are read as serine or are used as stop codons in metazoan mitochondria. The arginine residues coded by AGR in yeast or Trypanosoma are coded by arginine CGN throughout metazoan mitochondria. AGR serine sites in metazoan mitochondria are occupied mainly in corresponding sites in yeast or Trypanosoma mitochondria by UCN serine, AGY serine, or codons for amino acids other than serine or arginine. Based on these observations, we propose the following evolutionary events. AGR codons became unassigned because of deletion of tRNA Arg (UCU) and elimination of AGR codons by conversion to CGN arginine codons. Upon acquisition by serine tRNA of pairing ability with AGR codons, some codons for amino acids other than arginine mutated to AGR, and were captured by anticodon GCU in serine tRNA. During vertebrate mitochondrial evolution, AGR stop codons presumably were created from UAG stop by deletion of the first nucleotide U and by use of R as the third nucleotide that had existed next to the ancestral UAG stop.
Matching of vertebrate cardiac energy demand to energy metabolism.	Concentrations of high-energy phosphates and activities of key enzymes of energy metabolism were assessed in hearts from species with differing levels of cardiac power output. Positive correlations were found between resting power output and the total adenylate pool and between citrate synthase activity and the total adenylate pool. Maximum in vitro activity levels of enzymes from energy metabolism were compared with calculated resting cardiac power output and maximal cardiac power output (as reflected by total oligomycin-insensitive adenosine-triphosphatase activity). Three indexes of carbohydrate metabolism (hexokinase, pyruvate kinase, and L-lactate dehydrogenase) all plateau at relatively low levels of energy demand. In contrast, enzymes required for aerobic fatty acid metabolism, (carnitine palmitoyltransferase and 3-hydroxyacyl-CoA dehydrogenase) and for tricarboxylic acid and electron transport (citrate synthase and cytochrome-c oxidase) show consistent increases as ATP demand is elevated. It appears that as capacity for power development by vertebrate hearts, increases across taxa, the elevated demand for ATP is met by expansion of fatty acid based aerobic metabolism and not carbohydrate metabolism.
I. I. Shmal'gauzen's concept of the evolution of ontogeny]	The concept of evolution of ontogenesis by I. I. Shmal'gauzen is presented as a result of reviewing some of his theoretical works. This concept appears to be the most consistent development of classical darwinism on the basis of a basically new (as compared with synthetic theory of evolution) evolutionary-synthetic approach. This latter has been based on the idea of the organism integrity in onto- and phylogenesis and the involvement of the organismic level (ontogenesis), together with the population and biocoenotic ones, in the evolutionary process as a whole.
The nuclear skeleton and the spatial arrangement of chromosomes in the interphase nucleus of vertebrate somatic cells.	The topologic distribution of interphase chromosomes established by using various cytologic methods and data concerning the DNA-nuclear skeleton interactions in isolated nuclear fractions were reviewed and discussed. Comparison of these different data clearly showed that the position of chromosomes observed in situ is in agreement with the results obtained from isolated nuclear fractions, indicating that all DNA molecules are bound to the peripheral nuclear skeleton. Moreover, the in situ position of the rDNA near the nuclear envelope can be correlated with the existence of a nucleolar skeleton connected to the peripheral nuclear skeleton. Taking into account the discrepant results regarding the actual existence of an internal nuclear skeleton, we attempted to analyze how the various nuclear skeletal structures described in the literature can be involved in both the distribution of chromosomes and in their chromatin organization. As many questions are still unanswered, we considered the modes of investigation that seem to be the most promising.
Chromomycin staining of vertebrate chromosomes: enhancement of banding patterns by NaOH.	A simple technique is described for staining vertebrate chromosomes with the GC-base pair specific DNA fluorochrome, chromomycin A3. Addition of NaOH crystals to a glycerol mounting medium resulted in good differentiation of chromosome bands and eliminated the need for counterstaining.
Invertebrate vasopressin/oxytocin homologs. Characterization of peptides from Conus geographus and Conus straitus venoms.	The vasopressin-oxytocin family of peptides is of very ancient lineage, found in organisms as diverse as hydra and man. Although these peptides have been intensively studied in vertebrates, the presumably more extensive invertebrate series was defined primarily by immunological methods. In this report, we describe the purification and structures of two peptides of the vasopressin-oxytocin family from molluscs ("Conopressins"), which were found in the venom of fish-hunting marine snails of the genus Conus. The biological activity observed when the two snail peptides are injected intracerebrally into mice is very similar to that elicited by the vertebrate neurohypophyseal hormones and presumably reflects their actions upon a common receptor in the brain. The sequences of the purified peptides reveal unique features not found in the vertebrate peptide series, most notably an additional positive charge. These are the first members of the invertebrate series of the vasopressin-oxytocin family to be characterized biochemically. The sequences of these peptides are: from Conus geographus venom, Lys-conopressin-G, Cys-Phe-Ile-Arg-Asn-Cys-Pro-Lys-Gly-NH2; and from Conus striatus venom, Arg-conopressin-S, Cys-Ile-Ile-Arg-Asn-Cys-Pro-Arg-Gly-NH2.
Studies on the alkali light chains of vertebrate skeletal muscle myosin. Effect of tyrosyl modification on the ability to reassociate to heavy chains.	The structures of the alkali light chain subunits A1 and A2 have been studied by examining the effect of the conformationally sensitive reagent tetranitromethane, which reacts specifically with tyrosyl residues. Whereas reaction in the presence of 6 M guanidine hydrochloride results in modification of the three tyrosyl residues of both these light chains, only two tyrosyl residues are exposed to the reagent in the native conformations of these proteins. By gel chromatography of the CNBr-cleaved chains it was demonstrated that the two reactive tyrosyls are those located in the CB-1 and CB-3 segments and that these tyrosyl residues are modified simultaneously and not sequentially. The unreactive tyrosyl residue is in the CB-6 segment and is separated by two residues from the single cysteinyl residue of these chains. It is found that the modified light chains cannot be made to reassociate with the heavy chains by the NH4Cl hybridization procedure of Wagner and Weeds [J. Mol. Biol. 109, 455-470 (1977)] or by the thermal hybridization procedure [Burke and Sivaramakrishnan (1981) Biochemistry 20, 5908-5913]. Furthermore, reduction of the nitrotyrosyl groups to aminotyrosyl residues by sodium dithionite does not restore this effect. The data suggest that regions of the light chains at CB-1 and CB-3 are involved in the association to the heavy chains.
Isolation, morphology, and protein and glycoprotein composition of synaptic junctional fractions from the brain of lower vertebrates: antigen PSD-95 as a junctional marker.	Synaptic junction (SJ) fractions were isolated from the brains of the gray shark, bonito, common frog, several reptiles, and common chicken and compared to those prepared from mammalian brain. All SJ preparations, as judged by electron microscopic analysis, were at least 85% pure, consisting primarily of postsynaptic densities (PSDs) with or without an overlying plasma membrane and, to a lesser extent, of complete synaptic junctions. Complete junctions were less abundant in preparations from lower vertebrates. The electrophoretic pattern of SJs from different vertebrate species showed considerable conservation of the major protein bands. The most abundant were fibrous proteins, especially tubulins, actin, and the PSD-specific polypeptide with a molecular weight of 52,000 (PSD-52). Glycoproteins capable of binding concanavalin A were present in SJs from all vertebrates; their apparent molecular weight and relative abundance were characteristic of each animal order examined, showing more similarities in species more closely related phylogenetically. Finally, a protein (antigen PSD-95) previously shown to be located specifically in the postsynaptic densities of the mammalian brain was present in all species. The binding of antibody specific to this protein decreased with descending phylogenetic order from mammals to shark. Nonetheless, PSD-95 was present in all vertebrate species and appeared to be a general specific marker for PSDs.
Further studies of the theory of nervous decussations. I. The phylogenic organization of the optic chiasm]	We introduce in our theory on the biological significance of nervous crossings an hypothesis about phylogenetic origin of optic chiasma. This hypothesis admit a migration of 180 degrees of primitive eyes in ancestors of Chordates. This migration would have been the cause of the crossing of the optic nerves. We analyse the hypothesis by the mean of schemes and discuss it in relation with the old and the new hypothesis about the origin of Chordates from Annelids and respectively from Echinoderms. We present probationary signs from comparative embryology and comparative morphology.
Fine structure of the Mller cell revealed by high-voltage electron microscopy.	The three-dimensional organization of Mller cells in the retina of various vertebrates was investigated by means of high-voltage electron microscope stereoscopy using 2-5 micrometer-thick Golgi preparations. The alveolar compartments constituted by thin lamellar processes of the Mller cell were seen in the outer and inner nuclear layers. The radial process of the Mller cell has many irregular appendages which attenuate into thin lamellae to invade the neuropile. The functional significance of the characteristic morphological features of the Mller cell is discussed.
Riboflavin binding proteins and flavin assimilation in insects.	Recent studies on developmentally regulated hemolymph proteins in insects have shown that two proteins, a lipoprotein and a member of a hexamerin gene family, bind riboflavin. The biosynthesis, developmental regulation, and properties of these proteins are described and compared with the riboflavin-binding proteins and flavin distributions in vertebrates. The importance of riboflavin-binding proteins in insect development is discussed in relation to existing information and avenues for future research are presented.
Expression of snail2, a second member of the zebrafish snail family, in cephalic mesendoderm and presumptive neural crest of wild-type and spadetail mutant embryos.	Transcripts of a newly discovered gene called snail2, encoding a zinc finger protein of the Snail family, first appear in rows of cephalic mesendodermal cells in gastrulating zebrafish embryos. At the end of gastrulation, snail2 RNA accumulates in a domain of ectodermal cells that mark the border between the epidermal epithelium and the neural plate and includes precursors of the neural crest. During somitogenesis, snail2 expression becomes restricted to neural crest. snail2 is thus one of the earliest genes yet known to be specifically expressed in neural crest in zebrafish embryos. Since snail2 is expressed in mesendoderm, a tissue layer whose convergence in the trunk is known to be altered in embryos homozygous for the spadetail mutation, we examined snail2 expression in spadetail embryos. In these mutants, the number of cephalic mesendodermal cells expressing snail2 is strongly reduced and the distribution of cells containing snail2 and no tail transcripts in the axial mesoderm is much broader than normal Moreover, the embryos are shorter than normal at the end of gastrulation. This shows that, in addition to the failure of paraxial mesoderm to converge normally in the trunk during gastrulation, spadetail also affects the elongation of the embryo and the convergence of axial and lateral mesendoderm in both trunk and head.
Lobster muscle proteasome and the degradation of myofibrillar proteins.	The lobster proteasome is primarily a cytosolic enzyme in crustacean striated muscles, although a small amount (< 1% of total) occurs in aggregates associated with invaginations of the cell membrane. The complex exists in vitro in three distinct catalytic states (basal, SDS-activated, and heat-activated forms) which have identical subunit compositions. This review summarizes recent results showing that the branched-chain amino acid-preferring (BrAAP) activity mediates the hydrolysis of myofibrillar proteins by the heat-activated proteasome: (a) only the BrAAP activity is stimulated by heat treatment; (b) the BrAAP activity is strongly inhibited by protein substrates, and (c) both the BrAAP and proteolytic activities show similar sensitivities to cations and protease inhibitors.
Is taxol a surrogate for a universal regulator of mitosis?	Taxol is well recognized as an antitumor agent and a biochemical tool for studies of microtubules. A proposal is made that taxol is a surrogate for a key endogenous regulator of microtubules, which has the particular function of stabilizing the mitotic spindle. This proposal is based on evidence from the breadth of taxol activity across organisms, data supporting a highly conserved binding site for taxol, low-dose effects of taxol targeting the mitotic spindle, the restriction of the binding site to a highly conserved segment of B-tubulin, data on the biosynthesis and distribution of taxol, and the recent discovery of an anti-idiotype antibody with taxol-like activity.
Cardiac distribution of the binding sites for natriuretic peptides in vertebrates.	Natriuretic peptides are hormones that play an important role in the cardiovascular control of mammalian and non-mammalian vertebrates. They have been classified into four groups. Of these, ANP (atrial natriuretic peptide), BNP (brain atriuretic peptides), CNP (C-type natriuretic peptide) are detected in cardiac and non cardiac tissues of all vertebrates; while VNP (ventricular natriuretic peptide) has been isolated only from the fish ventricle. All peptides have shown a high degree of sequence homology. The expression of the three principal types of natriuretic peptide (ANP, BNP and CNP) in cardiac tissues is developmentally and functionally regulated in a highly tissue-specific manner. Three types of natriuretic peptide receptors have been identified in numerous target tissues. Two receptors are transmembrane guanylyl cyclases (ANPR-A and ANPR-B) that mediate biological effects of natriuretic peptides; the third one (ANPR-C) has no guanylyl cyclase and is called "clearance receptor." The presence of natriuretic peptide binding sites in the heart suggests new aspects of paracrine control of cardiac function. A relevant localization of natriuretic peptide receptors was found in those cardiac regions particularly suitable for monitoring blood volume and pressure oscillations such as the inflow tract and the outflow tract. For example, in birds (quail) the highest levels of natriuretic peptide receptors were detected in the inflow tract represented by the vena cava. In both fish and birds, the outflow chamber, the bulbus cordis, had a high number of natriuretic peptide binding sites. In mammals, a remarkable concentration of natriuretic peptide receptors was also observed in the coronary vessels. This zoning of cardiac natriuretic peptide receptors indicates an intracardiac action of the hormones and adds a humoral dimension to the morphofunctional design of the vertebrate heart.
A compilation and classification of DNA binding sites for protein transcription factors from vertebrates.	The field of protein transcription regulators and their DNA sequence specificity has been the most rapidly expanding in the last few years. The concerted interplay of protein transcription factors on the regulatory regions of eukaryotic genes (promoters, enhancers, origins of replication, silencers, and matrix-attached regions) regulates transcription levels; the differential activity of genes during development and the cell cycle, between cell types, and in response to physiological stimuli results from interdigitation of regulatory circuits controlling transcription initiation, finely tuned by the relative amounts of protein factors synthesized in a cell type, their phosphorylation, isoforms within factor families, the way protein regulators are brought in contact with one another through the patchwork of their cognate sites on the regulatory regions of genes, and by regulation of their nuclear import. The varying affinity of the same factor for its cognate DNA in different promoters can also be modulated by the type of proteins it is brought into contact with, by one or more nucleotide changes in its binding sites among promoters, and by the chromatin structure. The classification of protein transcriptional regulators attempted here according to their DNA binding specificity into those that bind AT-, GC-, GA, TG-rich and mixed motif has one obvious advantage: different protein factors that bind to the same DNA sequence will be found within the same class. In addition, this classification has allowed us to discern a class of transcriptional regulators whose binding site consists of a GA- and a CT-rich moiety; no other two pairs of dinucleotides compose a major class of factor sites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Structure, function, and regulation of vertebrate Na+/H+ exchangers.	The Na+/H+ exchangers are vital transmembrane transporters that participate in the regulation of intracellular pH and volume as well as transepithelial ion transport. Several isoforms of these antiporters belonging to the same gene family have been cloned, and they display tissue-specific expression. All these transporters are highly regulated via various stimuli, which can modulate their activity and expression level. Impairments in regulation of the antiporters may contribute to certain pathologic situations. Biochemical techniques and the tools of molecular genetics now provide the means to analyze the different aspects of these transporters at a molecular level.
Networking with mitogen-activated protein kinases.	Mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinases and their target ribosomal protein S6 (RSK) kinases have been recognized as shared components in the intracellular signaling pathways of many diverse cytokines. Recent studies have extended this protein kinase cascade by identifying the major activator of vertebrate MAP kinases as a serine/threonine/tyrosine-protein kinase called MEK, which is related to yeast mating factor-regulated protein kinases encoded by the STE7 and byr1 genes. MEK, in turn, may be activated following its phosphorylation on serine by either of the kinases encoded by proto-oncogenes raf1 or mos, as well as by p78mekk, which is related to the yeast STE11 and byr2 gene products. Isoforms of all of these protein kinases may specifically combine to assemble distinct modules for intracellular signal transmission. However, the fundamental architecture of these protein kinase cascades has been highly conserved during eukaryotic evolution.
Phosphorylation of vertebrate nonmuscle and smooth muscle myosin heavy chains and light chains.	In this article we review the various amino acids present in vertebrate nonmuscle and smooth muscle myosin that can undergo phosphorylation. The sites for phosphorylation in the 20 kD myosin light chain include serine-19 and threonine-18 which are substrates for myosin light chain kinase and serine-1 and/or -2 and threonine-9 which are substrates for protein kinase C. The sites in vertebrate smooth muscle and nonmuscle myosin heavy chains that can be phosphorylated by protein kinase C and casein kinase II are also summarized. Original data indicating that treatment of human T-lymphocytes (Jurkat cell line) with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate results in phosphorylation of both the 20 kD myosin light chain as well as the 200 kD myosin heavy chain is presented. We identified the amino acids phosphorylated in the human T-lymphocytes myosin light chains as serine-1 or serine-2 and in the myosin heavy chains as serine-1917 by 1-dimensional isoelectric focusing of tryptic phosphopeptides. Untreated T-lymphocytes contain phosphate in the serine-19 residue of the myosin light chain, and in a residue tentatively identified as serine-1944 in the myosin heavy chain.
Functions for DNA methylation in vertebrates.	DNA methylation is ancestrally a mechanism for neutralizing potentially damaging DNA elements in the genome. The genomes of most multicellular organisms contain a small fraction of methylated DNA that contains the methylated elements, whereas the organism's own genes remain free of methylation. Vertebrates are exceptional among animals in that their genomes, including genes, are predominantly methylated. They retain the ability to inactivate viral DNA but have recruited the DNA methylation system for new functions. Widespread low-density methylation can contribute to lowering of the level of transcriptional "noise" from cryptic or inappropriate promoters. This may be the major advantage of DNA methylation in these organisms and may be sufficiently beneficial to offset the disadvantage of m5C mutability. The other novel feature of DNA methylation in vertebrates is the capacity to de novo methylate certain CpG islands, causing long-term strong repression. These evolutionary innovations may explain the high complexity of vertebrate organs and cell types.
Combining behaviour and population dynamics with applications for predicting consequences of habitat loss.	A population model for migratory vertebrates is developed by combining game theory models of foraging behaviour with population biology. Models of foraging behaviour which incorporate interference and resource depletion are developed to determine the density-dependent mortality occurring within sites. Population size can then be related to the strength of interference, the variance in competitive ability and the rate at which resources are depleted. The model is extended to predict evolutionarily stable migration strategies. This novel framework is then used to predict the population decline resulting from habitat loss.
Isolation and characterization of human fast skeletal beta troponin T cDNA: comparative sequence analysis of isoforms and insight into the evolution of members of a multigene family.	A cDNA encoding human fast skeletal beta troponin T (beta TnTf) has been isolated and characterized from a fetal skeletal muscle library. The cDNA insert is 1,000 bp in length and contains the entire coding region of 777 bp and 5' and 3' untranslated (UT) segments of 12 and 211 bp, respectively. The 3' UT segment shows the predicted stem-loop structure typical of eukaryotic mRNAs. The cDNA-derived amino acid sequence is the first available sequence for human beta TnTf protein. It is encoded by a single-copy gene that is expressed in a tissue-specific manner in fetal and adult fast skeletal muscles. Although the human beta TnTf represents the major fetal isoform, the sequence information indicates that this cDNA and the coded protein are quite distinct from the fetal and neonatal TnTf isoforms reported in other mammalian fetal muscles. The hydropathy plot indicates that human beta TnTf is highly hydrophilic along its entire length. The protein has an extremely high degree of predicted alpha-helical content involving the entire molecule except the carboxy-terminal 30 residues. Comparative sequence analysis reveals that the human beta TnTf shares a high level of sequence similarity in the coding region with other vertebrate TnTf and considerably reduced similarity with slow skeletal and cardiac TnT cDNAs. The TnT isoforms have a large central region consisting of amino acid residues 46-204 which shows a high sequence conservation both at the nucleotide and amino acid levels. This conserved region is flanked by the variable carboxy-terminal and an extremely variable amino-terminal segment. The tropomyosin-binding peptide of TnT, which is represented by amino acid residues 47-151 and also includes a part of troponin I binding region, is an important domain of this central segment. It is suggested that this conserved segment is encoded by an ancestral gene. The variable regions of vertebrate striated TnT isoforms reflect the subsequent addition and modification of genomic sequences to give rise to members of the TnT multigene family.
Microtubule assembly and kinetochore directional instability in vertebrate monopolar spindles: implications for the mechanism of chromosome congression.	We have proposed previously a kinetochore motor-polar ejection model for chromosome congression to the metaphase plate where forces generated at the kinetochore are antagonized by away-from-the pole forces generated within each half-spindle on the chromosome arms. This model was based in large part on observations of the behavior of chromosomes on monopolar spindles. In these cells chromosomes typically become attached to the pole by only one kinetochore fiber. These mono-oriented chromosomes move to positions away from the pole even though they are pulled poleward at their kinetochores. Their arms are also ejected away from the pole when severed from the centromere. Here we have characterized further the properties of monopolar spindles in newt lung epithelial cells to determine the similarities between monopolar and bipolar spindles. We found no significant differences between monopolar and bipolar spindles over the parameters examined, which included: microtubule dynamics as measured by fluorescence redistribution after photobleaching; the ability of polar microtubule arrays to push chromosome arms away from the pole; the dependence of chromosome position relative to the pole on microtubule assembly; the number of kinetochore microtubules per kinetochore; and the directional instability of kinetochore motion during chromosome oscillations poleward and away-from-the-pole. As in bipolar spindles, kinetochore directional instability is characterized by abrupt switching between constant velocity phases of poleward and away-from-the-pole motion. From these data we conclude that the mechanism(s) responsible for chromosome positioning in monopolar spindles are fundamentally the same as those in bipolar spindles; only the geometry of the two spindle forms and the interplay between sister kinetochore directional instabilities are different. We also found no correlation in the kinetochore-to-pole distance with kinetochore microtubule number in monopolar spindles, but a strong qualitative correlation with microtubule density. This finding indicates that oscillations of mono-oriented chromosomes in both monopolar and bipolar spindles occur because chromosomes persist in poleward motion until they reach a density of polar microtubules sufficiently high to promote switching to away-from-the-pole motion. As the kinetochore and chromosome arms move away-from-the-pole, microtubule density decreases and the kinetochore switches to poleward motion, pulling the chromosome arms back into regions of higher microtubule density. The mechanism regulating kinetochore switching between poleward and away-from-the-pole motion is poorly understood, but may depend on tension at the kinetochore generated by pushing forces on the chromosome arms produced by the polar microtubule arrays.
Structural similarity of a developmentally regulated bacterial spore coat protein to beta gamma-crystallins of the vertebrate eye lens.	The solution structure of Ca(2+)-loaded protein S (M(r) 18,792) from the Gram-negative soil bacterium Myxococcus xanthus has been determined by multidimensional heteronuclear NMR spectroscopy. Protein S consists of four internally homologous motifs, arranged to produce two domains with a pseudo-twofold symmetry axis, overall resembling a triangular prism. Each domain consists of two topologically inequivalent "Greek keys": the second and fourth motifs form standard Greek keys, whereas the first and third motifs each contain a regular alpha-helix in addition to the usual four beta-strands. The structure of protein S is similar to those of the vertebrate eye lens beta gamma-crystallins, which are thought to be evolutionarily related to protein S. Both protein S and the beta gamma-crystallins function by forming stable multimolecular assemblies. However, protein S possesses distinctive motif organization and domain packing, indicating a different mode of oligomerization and a divergent evolutionary pathway from the beta gamma-crystallins.
Identification of Drosophila cytoskeletal proteins by induction of abnormal cell shape in fission yeast.	To clone metazoan genes encoding regulators of cell shape, we have developed a functional assay for proteins that affect the morphology of a simple organism, the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. A Drosophila melanogaster cDNA library was constructed in an inducible expression vector and transformed into S. pombe. When expression of the Drosophila sequences was induced, aberrant cell shapes were found in 0.2% of the transformed colonies. Four severe phenotypes representing defects in cytokinesis and/or cell shape maintenance were examined further. Each displayed drastic and specific reorganizations of the actin cytoskeleton. Three of the cDNAs responsible for these defects appear to encode cytoskeletal components: the actin binding proteins profilin and cofilin/actin depolymerizing factor and a membrane-cytoskeleton linker of the ezrin/merlin family. These results demonstrate that a yeast phenotypic screen efficiently identifies conserved genes from more complex organisms and sheds light on their potential in vivo functions.
Cloning and characterization of three hemolysin genes from Aeromonas salmonicida.	Two hemolysin genes (ASH3 and ASH4) of Aeromonas salmonicida strain 17-2 and one (ASH1) of A. salmonicida ATCC14174 were cloned into the cosmid vector charomid 9-36 in Escherichia coli DH1. The overall amino acid sequence of the ASH3 was similar to that of the aerolysins of Aeromonas hydrophila and Aeromonas sobria, and hemolysins AHH3, AHH4, and AHH5 of A. hydrophila, and hemolysin ASA1 of A. sobria. The sequence of ASH4 was similar to that of the AHH1 hemolysin of A. hydrophila. The ASH4 hemolysin contains some homologous sequence regions of the Vibrio vulnificus and Vibrio cholerae cytolysin-hemolysin. Both ASH3 and ASH4 DNA probes reacted with all 104 strains of A. salmonicida, whereas the ASH1 DNA probe did not hybridize with any of the 104 strains studied except strain ATCC14174. ASH1 and ASH3 were broad spectrum hemolysins with most activity against rabbit and horse erythrocytes, respectively, whereas ASH4 hemolysin did not lyse bovine and horse erythrocytes. ASH3 and ASH4, but not ASH1, were activated by trypsin.
Alternate exon usage is a commonly used mechanism for increasing coding diversity within genes coding for extracellular matrix proteins.	Extracellular matrix proteins are a diverse family of secreted proteins and glycoproteins that are responsible for a variety of critical functions in different tissues. A large number of multiexon genes encode these proteins of the extracellular matrix. Over the last few years, it has become evident that the processing of the pre-mRNA from several of these genes involves alternative splicing. This review summarizes the known examples of alternative splicing in genes coding for the extracellular matrix and attempts to relate the increase in coding diversity generated by alternate exon usage to the function(s) of individual extracellular matrix proteins.
Ubiquitinylation and ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis in vertebrate photoreceptors (rod outer segments). Evidence for ubiquitinylation of Gt and rhodopsin.	In corroboration of the hypothesized regulation of phototransduction proteins by the ubiquitin-dependent pathway, we identified free ubiquitin (8 kDa) and ubiquitin-protein conjugates (50 to >200 kDa; pI 5.3-6.8 by two-dimensional electrophoresis) in bovine rod outer segments (ROS). A 38-kDa ubiquitinylated protein and transducin (Gt) were eluted together from light-adapted ROS membranes with GTP. When ROS were dark-adapted, this 38-kDa ubiquitinylated species and Gt were readily solubilized in buffer lacking GTP. These data are consistent with ubiquitinylation of Gt and corroborate previous cell-free experiments identifying Gt as a substrate for ubiquitin-dependent proteolysis (Obin, M. S., Nowell, T., and Taylor, A. (1994) Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 200, 1169-1176). Evidence for ubiquitinylation of rhodopsin (36 kDa), the (photo)receptor coupled to Gt, included (i) the presence in ROS membranes "stripped" of peripheral membrane proteins of numerous ubiquitin-protein conjugates, including two whose masses (44 and 50 kDa) are consistent with mono- and diubiquitinylated rhodopsin; (ii) catalysis by permeabilized ROS of 125I-labeled ubiquitin-protein conjugates whose masses (42, 50, and 58 kDa) suggest a "ladder" of mono-, di-, and triubiquitinylated rhodopsin; (iii) parallel mobility shifts on SDS-polyacrylamide gels of rhodopsin and these 125I-labeled ubiquitin-protein conjugates; and (iv) generation of enhanced levels of 125I-labeled ubiquitin-protein conjugates when stripped, detergent-solubilized ROS membranes (95% rhodopsin) were incubated with reticulocyte lysate. A functional ubiquitin-dependent pathway in ROS is demonstrated by the presence of (i) the ubiquitin-activating enzyme (E1); (ii) four ubiquitin carrier proteins (E214K, E220K, E225K, and E235K) and pronounced activity of E214K, an enzyme required for "N-end rule" proteolysis; (iii) ATP-dependent 26 S proteasome activity that rapidly degrades high mass 125I-labeled ubiquitin-ROS protein conjugates; and (iv) distinct ubiquitin C-terminal isopeptidase/hydrolase activities, including potent ubiquitin-aldehyde-insensitive activity directed at high mass ubiquitinylated moieties. Considered together, the data support a novel role for the ubiquitin-dependent pathway in the regulation of mammalian phototransduction protein levels and/or activities and provide the first identification of a non-calpain proteolytic system in photoreceptors.
Expression and spectroscopic characterization of the hydrogenosomal [2Fe-2S] ferredoxin from the protozoan Trichomonas vaginalis.	The heterologous expression and spectroscopic characterization of the [2Fe-2S] ferredoxin from the sexually transmitted human parasite Trichomonas vaginalis is described. Using oligonucleotide primers based on the deduced DNA sequence, the gene encoding the ferredoxin was amplified by polymerase chain reaction and cloned into a T7 RNA polymerase expression vector. Expression of the gene in Escherichia coli host HMS174(DE3) resulted in the high level production of the protein with the correctly assembled iron-sulfur cluster. The absorption, circular dichroism, resonance Raman, and EPR spectra of the recombinant protein revealed many differences from those of other [2Fe-2S] ferredoxins. The redox potential of the protein (-347 mV versus normal hydrogen electrode) was also determined. Whereas the amino acid sequence of T. vaginalis ferredoxin showed greatest homology to the [2Fe-2S] ferredoxins found in bacteria and vertebrate mitochondria which function in cytochrome P450 oxidation pathways, the spectroscopic properties showed substantial dissimilarity. Differences in the biophysical properties and function of T. vaginalis ferredoxin are proposed to result from the characteristic amino acid sequence of the parasite protein near the cysteine residues that ligate the valence-localized Fe(III) site of the reduced cluster.
A modular set of Flp, FRT and lacZ fusion vectors for manipulating genes by site-specific recombination.	Site-specific recombinases can serve as powerful tools to target genetic manipulations to specific cell populations in culture and in the organism. A series of vectors for engineering gene activation, deletion and integration in mammalian cells using Flp recombinase is described here. The vectors are modular in design so that specific cassettes can be linked depending on the application. Using these vectors, efficient Flp-mediated lacZ activation and beta-galactosidase (beta Gal) detection has been demonstrated in mammalian cell culture. These vectors should facilitate using Flp to mark cell populations, as well as to activate, remove or mutate genes in culture and in the mouse.
Duplication of an amphioxus myogenic bHLH gene is independent of vertebrate myogenic bHLH gene duplication.	Gene duplication is thought to be a major genetic change that may have permitted the evolution of vertebrates from invertebrates. The myogenic genes encode basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcriptional factors essential for the formation of skeletal muscle. The invertebrate genome contains only a single myogenic bHLH gene, whereas the vertebrate genome contains four (MyoD, Myf-5, myogenin and MRF4). Since the tunicate genome contains a single myogenic bHLH gene, its duplication might have occurred some time during chordate evolution. To determine whether the duplication of the myogenic bHLH gene occurred prior to, or after the divergence of vertebrates from the cephalochordate lineage, we amplified target fragments from the amphioxus, Branchiostoma floridae, by means of PCR. Sequence analysis and genomic Southern analysis revealed that the amphioxus genome contains two myogenic bHLH genes (BMD1 and BMD2). A comparison of the amino acid sequences in the bHLH domain between BMD1, BMD2 and four vertebrate myogenic bHLH gene products, however, showed that neither BMD1 nor BMD2 resembled any of the four genes. These results suggested that the duplication of amphioxus myogenic bHLH gene occurred independently of that leading to the four myogenic bHLH genes in vertebrates.
Purification and characterization of a tetrameric alpha-macroglobulin proteinase inhibitor from the gastropod mollusc Biomphalaria glabrata.	The alpha-macroglobulin proteinase inhibitors (alpha Ms) are a family of proteins with the unique ability to inhibit a broad spectrum of proteinases. Whereas monomeric, dimeric and tetrameric alpha Ms have been identified in vertebrates, all invertebrate alpha Ms characterized so far have been dimeric. This paper reports the isolation and characterization of a tetrameric alpha M from the tropical planorbid snail Biomphalaria glabrata. The sequence of 18 amino acids at the N-terminus indicates homology with other alpha Ms. The subunit mass of approx. 200 kDa was determined by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry and SDS/PAGE. The quaternary structure was determined by sedimentation equilibrium centrifugation and native pore-limit electrophoresis. Evidence for a thioester is provided by the fact that methylamine treatment prevents the autolytic cleavage of the snail alpha M subunit and results in the release of 4 mol of thiols per mol of snail alpha M. The snail alpha M inhibited the serine proteinase trypsin, the cysteine proteinase bromelain and the metalloproteinase thermolysin. The spectrum of proteinases inhibited, together with the demonstration of steric protection of the proteinase active site and a "slow to fast' conformational change after reacting with trypsin, all suggest that the inhibitory mechanism of the snail alpha M is similar to the "trap mechanism' of human alpha 2-macroglobulin.
Evolution of elastin structure.	The aortae of a number of vertebrates and invertebrates were tested for the presence of elastin to determine when this protein first appears phylogenetically. Using several criteria, including amino acid composition, presence of desmosines, and histological characteristics, we found that all representative vertebrate groups have elastin except the primitive jawless fishes (lampreys and hagfishes). All the invertebrates tested, representing most major phyla, were found lackin in elastin as well. Comparison of purified elastins from several vertebrate groups reveals some striking differences in their amino acid compositions and properties, including the arrangement of the elastic fibers in the aorta. The patterns of variations in amino acid composition suggest a mode of evolution which is different from the slow accumulation of point mutations observed with globular proteins.
A phylogenetic study of sulphation factor activity in 26 species.	Somatomedin (sulphation factor) activity was measured in 26 species by a porcine cartilage bioassay. Although non-dialysable inhibitory factors were present in many species, sulphation factor activity was present in the sera of all the vertebrates studied but was absent from the invertebrates.
Gene identification by 3' terminal exon trapping.	3' terminal exon trapping offers a powerful and efficient technology for rendering fragments of transcribed genes from large stretches of unsequenced, vertebrate, genomic DNA. The products from this methodology are the starting point for further studies of gene discovery and analysis. Future considerations for this technology include answering questions about the degree of efficiency from various trapping substrates and whether or not this approach can be scaled up for large-scale gene discovery such as individual chromosome or whole genomic approaches. With the onset of EST database searching, the final analysis becomes a computer assay that is consistent with the future of genetics as this field continues to move towards informational experimentation based on DNA sequence.
Contribution of proteasomal beta-subunits to the cleavage of peptide substrates analyzed with yeast mutants.	Proteasomes generate peptides that can be presented by major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I molecules in vertebrate cells. Using yeast 20 S proteasomes carrying different inactivated beta-subunits, we investigated the specificities and contributions of the different beta-subunits to the degradation of polypeptide substrates containing MHC class I ligands and addressed the question of additional proteolytically active sites apart from the active beta-subunits. We found a clear correlation between the contribution of the different subunits to the cleavage of fluorogenic and long peptide substrates, with beta5/Pre2 cleaving after hydrophobic, beta2/Pup1 after basic, and beta1/Pre3 after acidic residues, but with the exception that beta2/Pup1 and beta1/Pre3 can also cleave after some hydrophobic residues. All proteolytic activities including the "branched chain amino acid-preferring" component are associated with beta5/Pre2, beta1/Pre3, or beta2/Pup1, arguing against additional proteolytic sites. Because of the high homology between yeast and mammalian 20 S proteasomes in sequence and subunit topology and the conservation of cleavage specificity between mammalian and yeast proteasomes, our results can be expected to also describe most of the proteolytic activity of mammalian 20 S proteasomes leading to the generation of MHC class I ligands.
The medium subunits of adaptor complexes recognize distinct but overlapping sets of tyrosine-based sorting signals.	Tyrosine-based sorting signals conforming to the motif YXXO (Y is tyrosine, X is any amino acid, and O is an amino acid with a bulky hydrophobic side chain (leucine, isoleucine, phenylalanine, methionine, valine)) interact with the medium (mu) subunits of clathrin adaptor (AP) complexes. We have analyzed the selectivity of interaction between YXXO signals and the mu1, mu2, and mu3 (A or B) subunits of the AP-1, AP-2, and AP-3 complexes, respectively, by screening a combinatorial XXXYXXO library using the yeast two-hybrid system. All the medium subunits were found to prefer proline at position Y+2, suggesting that YXXO signals are stabilized by a bend in the polypeptide backbone. Other than for this common preference, each medium subunit favored specific sets of residues at the X and O positions; these preferences were consistent with the proposed roles of the different adaptor complexes in rapid endocytosis and lysosomal targeting. A considerable specificity overlap was also revealed by these analyses, suggesting that additional factors, such as the context of the signals, must be important determinants of recognition.
New perspectives on mate choice and the MHC.	A long series of studies on mice has shown that mate choice decisions can be made on the basis of individual genotype at the major histocompatibility complex (MHC), which accords well with the importance of immunocompetence in some theories of sexual selection. Recent work on other vertebrate species, including humans, indicates that MHC-based mate choice is not restricted to the genus Mus. However, its importance may vary among species as a result of differences in social and mating system structure, and perhaps genome structure. There appears to be a general preference expressed for MHC-dissimilar mates, and such MHC-disassortative mating may be involved in maintaining MHC and/or genome-wide diversity in natural populations. The strength and direction of MHC-based mating preference can vary, and may be modulated by factors such as genetic background, sex, and early life experience.
Regulation of the spatiotemporal pattern of expression of the glutamine synthetase gene.	Glutamine synthetase, the enzyme that catalyzes the ATP-dependent conversion of glutamate and ammonia into glutamine, is expressed in a tissue-specific and developmentally controlled manner. The first part of this review focuses on its spatiotemporal pattern of expression, the factors that regulate its levels under (patho)physiological conditions, and its role in glutamine, glutamate, and ammonia metabolism in mammals. Glutamine synthetase protein stability is more than 10-fold reduced by its product glutamine and by covalent modifications. During late fetal development, translational efficiency increases more than 10-fold. Glutamine synthetase mRNA stability is negatively affected by cAMP, whereas glucocorticoids, growth hormone, insulin (all positive), and cAMP (negative) regulate its rate of transcription. The signal transduction pathways by which these factors may regulate the expression of glutamine synthetase are briefly discussed. The second part of the review focuses on the evolution, structure, and transcriptional regulation of the glutamine synthetase gene in rat and chicken. Two enhancers (at -6.5 and -2.5 kb) were identified in the upstream region and two enhancers (between +156 and +857 bp) in the first intron of the rat glutamine synthetase gene. In addition, sequence analysis suggests a regulatory role for regions in the 3' untranslated region of the gene. The immediate-upstream region of the chicken glutamine synthetase gene is responsible for its cell-specific expression, whereas the glucocorticoid-induced developmental appearance in the neural retina is governed by its far-upstream region.
Isolation, characterisation and embryonic expression of WNT11, a gene which maps to 11q13.5 and has possible roles in the development of skeleton, kidney and lung.	The Wnt gene family encodes a set of signalling molecules, thought to play an important role in key processes of embryonic development. In vertebrates as a whole 20 different Wnt genes have been identified to date, however, a complement of only 16 have been identified in man and for some of these the complete coding sequences are unavailable. We have recently isolated the full-length cDNA sequence of a new human WNT gene, WNT11, investigated its genomic organisation and performed detailed expression studies in early human embryos. These have shown that the expression of human WNT11 is restricted to the perichondrium of the developing skeleton, lung mesenchyme, the tips of the ureteric buds and other areas of the urogenital system and the cortex of the adrenal gland. This, for the first time, provides information for the embryonic expression of human WNT11. We have mapped WNT11 to 11q13.5 and this together with its expression in the perichondrium of the developing skeleton, makes it a plausible candidate gene for HBM, which has been previously linked to markers from this region.
Two distinct nicotinic receptors, one pharmacologically similar to the vertebrate alpha7-containing receptor, mediate Cl currents in aplysia neurons.	Ionotropic, nicotinic receptors have previously been shown to mediate both inhibitory (Cl-dependent) and excitatory (cationic) cholinergic responses in Aplysia neurons. We have used fast perfusion methods of agonist and antagonist application to reevaluate the effects on these receptors of a wide variety of cholinergic compounds, including a number of recently isolated and/or synthesized alpha toxins [alpha-conotoxin (alphaCTx)] from Conus snails. These toxins have been shown in previous studies to discriminate between the many types of nicotinic receptors now known to be expressed in vertebrate muscle, neuroendocrine, and neuronal cells. One of these toxins (alphaCTx ImI from the worm-eating snail Conus imperialis) revealed that two kinetically and pharmacologically distinct elements underlie the ACh-induced Cl-dependent response in Aplysia neurons: one element is a rapidly desensitizing current that is blocked by the toxin; the other is a slowly desensitizing current that is unaffected by the toxin. The two kinetically defined elements were also found to be differentially sensitive to different agonists. Finally, the proportion of the rapidly desensitizing element to the sustained element was found to be cell-specific. These observations led to the conclusion that two distinct nicotinic receptors mediate Cl currents in Aplysia neurons. The receptor mediating the rapidly desensitizing Cl-dependent response shows a strong pharmacological resemblance to the vertebrate alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive, alpha7-containing receptor, which is permeable to calcium and mediates a rapidly desensitizing excitatory response.
A role for nautilus in the differentiation of muscle precursors.	In the Drosophila embryo, nautilus is expressed in a subset of muscle precursors and differentiated fibers and is capable of inducing muscle-specific transcription, as well as myogenic transformation. In this study, we examine the consequences of nautilus loss-of-function on the development of the somatic musculature. Genetic and molecular characterization of two overlapping deficiencies, Df(3R)nau-9 and Df(3R)nau-11a4, revealed that both of these deficiencies remove the nautilus gene without affecting a common lethal complementation group. Individuals transheterozygous for these deficiencies survive to adulthood, indicating that nautilus is not an essential gene. These embryos are, however, missing a subset of muscle fibers, providing evidence that (1) some muscle loss can be tolerated throughout larval development and (2) nautilus does play a role in muscle development. Examination of muscle precursors in these embryos revealed that nautilus is not required for the formation of muscle precursors, but rather plays a role in their differentiation into mature muscle fibers. Thus, we suggest that nautilus functions in a subset of muscle precursors to implement their specific differentiation programs.
Strategy for identification of new neuropeptides]	Neuropeptides play a crucial role in cell communication as neurotransmitters, neuromodulators or neurohormones, and are involved in a number of biological activities including neuroendocrine regulations, control of neurovegetative functions, trophic effects and modulation of the immune response. The number of neuropeptides that have been fully characterized so far is rather limited, as compared to the number of precursor proteins that are actually expressed in nerve cells. Owing to the development of powerful analytical and structural identification methods, and the rapid advance in molecular biology techniques, a number of novel neuropeptides have been characterized during the last decade, in both vertebrates and invertebrates. The aim of the present review is to provide a comprehensive coverage of the different approaches which are currently used to identify novel neuropeptides.
Cellular and molecular mechanisms of the stress response in marine bivalves]	To maintain their body integrity when aggressed, living organisms use a series of genetic and metabolic events constituting the stress response. Experiments carried out on man and superior vertebrates have shown that the stress response can be considered as a general adaptative syndrome. It constitutes one of the key elements of the defense system and can schematically be decomposed as an immediate response related to the release of preformed or formed de novo cytotoxic cell mediators and a delayed response with genomic interactions and induced protein synthesis. In invertebrates, experiments were essentially aimed at study of cytotoxic secreted agents during immediate response. However, the presence of cytokine like agents, NO-synthases and heat shock proteins were also found in molluscs, insects, annelids and echinoderrns. In marine bivalvia, informations on stress response are scarce and ftagmentary and, to the best of our knowledge, no coherent synthesis was carried out. The aim of the present work is to collect up to date results in this field and to carry out a comparative analysis of defense mechanisms known in vertebrates.
Centriole disassembly in vivo and its effect on centrosome structure and function in vertebrate cells.	Glutamylation is the major posttranslational modification of neuronal and axonemal tubulin and is restricted predominantly to centrioles in nonneuronal cells (Bobinnec, Y., M. Moudjou, J.P. Fouquet, E. Desbruyres, B. Edd, and M. Bornens. 1998. Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 39:223-232). To investigate a possible relationship between the exceptional stability of centriole microtubules and the compartmentalization of glutamylated isoforms, we loaded HeLa cells with the monoclonal antibody GT335, which specifically reacts with polyglutamylated tubulin. The total disappearance of the centriole pair was observed after 12 h, as judged both by immunofluorescence labeling with specific antibodies and electron microscopic observation of cells after complete thick serial sectioning. Strikingly, we also observed a scattering of the pericentriolar material (PCM) within the cytoplasm and a parallel disappearance of the centrosome as a defined organelle. However, centriole disappearance was transient, as centrioles and discrete centrosomes ultimately reappeared in the cell population. During the acentriolar period, a large proportion of monopolar half-spindles or of bipolar spindles with abnormal distribution of PCM and NuMA were observed. However, as judged by a quasinormal increase in cell number, these cells likely were not blocked in mitosis. Our results suggest that a posttranslational modification of tubulin is critical for long-term stability of centriolar microtubules. They further demonstrate that in animal cells, centrioles are instrumental in organizing centrosomal components into a structurally stable organelle.
A model for amplification of hair-bundle motion by cyclical binding of Ca2+ to mechanoelectrical-transduction channels.	Amplification of auditory stimuli by hair cells augments the sensitivity of the vertebrate inner ear. Cell-body contractions of outer hair cells are thought to mediate amplification in the mammalian cochlea. In vertebrates that lack these cells, and perhaps in mammals as well, active movements of hair bundles may underlie amplification. We have evaluated a mathematical model in which amplification stems from the activity of mechanoelectrical-transduction channels. The intracellular binding of Ca2+ to channels is posited to promote their closure, which increases the tension in gating springs and exerts a negative force on the hair bundle. By enhancing bundle motion, this force partially compensates for viscous damping by cochlear fluids. Linear stability analysis of a six-state kinetic model reveals Hopf bifurcations for parameter values in the physiological range. These bifurcations signal conditions under which the system's behavior changes from a damped oscillatory response to spontaneous limit-cycle oscillation. By varying the number of stereocilia in a bundle and the rate constant for Ca2+ binding, we calculate bifurcation frequencies spanning the observed range of auditory sensitivity for a representative receptor organ, the chicken's cochlea. Simulations using prebifurcation parameter values demonstrate frequency-selective amplification with a striking compressive nonlinearity. Because transduction channels occur universally in hair cells, this active-channel model describes a mechanism of auditory amplification potentially applicable across species and hair-cell types.
From the glycogenic function of the liver to gene regulation by glucose]	Glucose, that Claude Bernard has demonstrated in 1850 to be synthesized and secreted by the liver, is an important regulator of gene transcription in all types of organisms. In vertebrates, it especially regulates transcription of metabolic genes in the liver and fat tissue, activating genes encoding enzymes and regulators of the glycolytic and lipogenic pathways. Working with the L-type pyruvate kinase gene we have found that in hepatocytes glucose-dependent gene regulation requires: Presence of the GLUT2 glucose transporter, necessary to allow for an effective depletion in glucose 6-phosphate (G-6P) under gluconeogenic conditions. Phosphorylation of glucose to G-6P assured either by insulin-dependent glucokinase or by another hexokinase isoform. Most likely, entry of G-6P in the pentose phosphate pathway. Modulation of a kinase/phosphatase cascade, in particular inhibition of the 5'AMP-activated protein kinase. Signalling through a glucose response complex assembled onto a glucose-response element (GIRE) located in regulatory regions of glucose-responsive genes. The activators USF belong to the complex, and are required for a normal gene activation by glucose, as evidenced from the phenotype of knock-out mice deficient in USF. The study of USF-defective knock-out mice suggest that USF could be involved in nutritional activation of a whole class of genes regulated by glucose, and not by insulin itself. In particular, lipogenic genes and the ob gene, encoding the leptin satiety hormone, are abnormally responsive to diet in USF-/- mice. The transactivation potential of USF would be modulated by a glucose sensor system implying the COUP-TFII transcription inhibitor. The main role of insulin in the glucose response of genes like the L-PK gene is to induce the glucokinase gene. Glucagon, through cyclic AMP, inhibits L-PK gene transcription mainly through activation of PKA. The PKA catalytic subunit could act by phosphorylating member(s) of the glucose-response complex, or of contiguous transcription factor, e.g. HNF4. In conclusion, through a pluridisciplinary approach ranging from Claude Bernard-derived biology to modern molecular biology, important progress have been made during the last years on the mechanisms of the regulation of gene transcription by glucose in vertebrates.
