Renal development long after correction of primary non-refluxing forms of megaureter in children]	We studied the condition and development of 50 kidneys in 45 patients 10-30 years after surgical correction of megaureter. We made resection and neoimplantation of the ureter according to the antireflux technique. By x-ray findings, we estimated area of the kidney, renocortical index and compared them with visual assessment of the condition of the kidney and its pelvicocalicyal system. We have found that correction of the megaureter creates favourable conditions for development of the kidney as shown by good growth of the kidney (area increased 1.5-3.5 fold) in a stable renocortical index. This indicates stabilization of nephrosclerosis and large area of renal parenchyma. However, kidney growth was accompanied with developing nephrosclerosis in 7 cases, in 1 case nephrosclerosis terminated with secondary contraction and a decline of renal function. The condition of the kidney varied due to many factors such as the condition of the immune system, age of the patient, virulence of the microflora, etc., but the key role for the kidney belonged to condition of renal parenchyma before surgical intervention. The data of light optic (53 cases) and electron-microscopies (3 cases) examinations of renal biopsies demonstrated that renal lesions were characterized by congenital structural disorders such as low number of nephrons, the presence of canalicular and glomerular microcysts and other manifestations of hypoplastic dysplasia. Inflammatory infiltration of the cortical and medullary layer interstitium aggravated severity of renal lesion. Various correlation and severity of congenital and aquired lesions characterized condition of the kidney in each individual case. Thus it is necessary to conduct a long-term follow-up and update methods of therapy.
Long-term followup of primary nonrefluxing megaureter.	We evaluated outcomes of nonoperative management of primary nonrefluxing megaureter at long-term followup to identify clinical predictors of spontaneous resolution.
Tumors of the superior urinary tract and associated bladder tumors: clinical and etiological aspects]	In a series of 107 patients treated over an 11-year period for upper urinary tract tumours (UTT), 30 had a synchronous or metachronous associated bladder tumour. The bladder tumour preceded the UTT in 10.3% of cases, the bladder tumour was synchronous in 6.5% of cases and the bladder tumour occurred after the UTT in 15% of cases, the incidence of UTT after cystectomy over this 11-year period was 3.3%. The median time to recurrence of the UTT after bladder tumour was 17 months. The median time to recurrence of the bladder tumour after the UTT was 12 months. The risk of bladder recurrence after treatment of the upper tract tumour was studied in relation to site, type of treatment, multifocal nature, stage and grade of the UTT and the presence of a previous or synchronous associated bladder tumour. None of these parameters constituted a predictive factor of bladder recurrence after treatment of an upper tract tumour. Comparison of survival between the UTT + bladder tumour group and the UTT alone group did not reveal any significant difference (p = 0.10). The theory of cellular implantation facilitated by vesicorenal reflux and the multifocal theory are complementary explanations of the multifocal and recurrent nature of urothelial tumours.
