Gbetagamma-mediated regulation of Golgi organization is through the direct activation of protein kinase D.	We have shown previously that the betagamma subunits of the heterotrimeric G proteins regulate the organization of the pericentriolarly localized Golgi stacks. In this report, evidence is presented that the downstream target of Gbetagamma is protein kinase D (PKD), an isoform of protein kinase C. PKD, unlike other members of this class of serine/threonine kinases, contains a pleckstrin homology (PH) domain. Our results demonstrate that Gbetagamma directly activates PKD by interacting with its PH domain. Inhibition of PKD activity through the use of pharmacological agents, synthetic peptide substrates, and, more specifically, the PH domain of PKD prevents Gbetagamma-mediated Golgi breakdown. Our findings suggest a possible mechanism by which the direct interaction of Gbetagamma with PKD regulates the dynamics of Golgi membranes and protein secretion.
Third-generation lentivirus vectors efficiently transduce and phenotypically modify vascular cells: implications for gene therapy.	Grafting of saphenous vein (SV) conduits into the arterial circulation triggers a number of adaptive pathological changes characterized by progressive medial thickening, neointima formation and accelerated atheroma. Previous studies have shown that modification of vein graft biology is possible by adenovirus (Ad)-mediated gene transfer, although gene expression is transient. Advancement of vascular gene therapy to the clinic is compromised by the lack of safe and efficient vector systems that provide sustained therapeutic gene delivery to the vasculature. Due to inadequacies of both Ad and adeno-associated virus (AAV) serotype-2 (AAV-2) systems, we have evaluated gene delivery to endothelial cells (ECs) and smooth muscle cells (SMCs) using alternate AAV serotypes and a third-generation vesicular stomatis virus glycoprotein-pseudotyped lentiviral system. Transduction of both primary human SV EC and SMC was lower using all alternate AAV serotypes compared to AAV-2. However, transduction of both cell types by lentivirus was efficient even at clinically relevant exposure times (15 min), was without toxicity and was promoter sensitive. Transduction levels at lower doses were further enhanced with the addition of the surfactant Poloxamer-407 (P-407). Direct comparison with Ad and AAV-2 confirmed the unique potential for this system. Moreover, we constructed and overexpressed the therapeutic gene tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-3 (TIMP-3) using lentivirus and demonstrated transgene production comparable to Ad with concomitant blockade of SMC migration and induction of cell death. We have demonstrated for the first time the potential for third-generation lentiviral vectors, but not alternate AAV serotypes, as efficient vascular gene delivery vectors.
In vivo gene marking of rhesus macaque long-term repopulating hematopoietic cells using a VSV-G pseudotyped versus amphotropic oncoretroviral vector.	Gene transfer efficiency into primitive hematopoietic cells may be limited by their expression of surface receptors allowing vector entry. Vectors pseudotyped with the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV-G) envelope do not need receptors to enter cells, and therefore may provide superior transduction efficiency.
A toxin-resistant mouse L-cell mutant defective in protein transport along the secretory pathway.	Using methods designed for isolation of mutants defective in receptor-mediated endocytosis, a novel L-cell mutant was obtained that exhibits resistance to three different protein toxins as well as alterations in secretion. This mutant, LEFIC, is resistant to modeccin, Pseudomonas exotoxin, and ricin. These toxins, which enter the cytoplasm via receptor-mediated endocytosis, are thought to penetrate into cells at the level of late endosomes or the trans Golgi network. Early endosomal acidification appears to be normal in the mutant based on its accumulation of iron from transferrin and its sensitivity to diphtheria toxin A chain-transferrin conjugate. Within the secretory pathway two delays in transport of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) G protein were observed in LEFIC: a 20-30 min delay in acquisition of Endo H resistance and a 1-2 hr delay in appearance of newly synthesized G protein on the cell surface. Movement of endogenous proteins along the secretory pathway was also affected in LEFIC. Fibronectin secretion was delayed by 15 min, and membrane proteins were delayed in arrival at the cell surface. The phenotype of LEFIC is consistent with a defect in a component or compartment shared by both the late endocytic and constitutive secretory pathways.
A novel glycosylation phenotype expressed by Lec23, a Chinese hamster ovary mutant deficient in alpha-glucosidase I.	Lec23 Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells have been shown to possess a unique lectin resistance phenotype and genotype compared with previously isolated CHO glycosylation mutants (Stanley, P., Sallustio, S., Krag, S. S., and Dunn, B. (1990) Somatic Cell Mol. Genet. 16, 211-223). In this paper, a biochemical basis for the lec23 mutation is identified. The carbohydrates associated with the G glycoprotein of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) grown in Lec23 cells (Lec23/VSV) were found to possess predominantly oligomannosyl carbohydrates that bound strongly to concanavalin A-Sepharose, eluted 3 sugar eq beyond a Man9GlcNAc marker oligosaccharide on ion suppression high pressure liquid chromatography, and were susceptible to digestion with jack bean alpha-mannosidase. Monosaccharide analyses revealed that the oligomannosyl carbohydrates contained glucose, indicating a defect in alpha-glucosidase activity. This was confirmed by further structural characterization of the Lec23/VSV oligomannosyl carbohydrates using purified rat mammary gland alpha-glucosidase I, jack bean alpha-mannosidase, and 1H NMR spectroscopy at 500 MHz. [3H]Glucose-labeled Glc3Man9GlcNAc was prepared from CHO/VSV labeled with [3H]galactose in the presence of the processing inhibitors castanospermine and deoxymannojirimycin. Subsequently, [3H]Glc2Man9GlcNAc was prepared by purified alpha-glucosidase I digestion of [3H]Glc3Man9GlcNAc. When these oligosaccharides were used as alpha-glucosidase substrates it was revealed that Lec23 cells are specifically defective in alpha-glucosidase I, a deficiency not previously identified among mammalian cell glycosylation mutants.
Trafficking and phosphorylation dynamics of AQP4 in histamine-treated human gastric cells.	AQP4 (aquaporin 4) internalization and a concomitant decrease in the osmotic water permeability coefficient (Pf) after histamine exposure has been reported in AQP4-transfected gastric HGT1 cells.
Effect of viruses and interferon on chick embryo otocyst cultures.	Chick embryo otocyst organ cultures were subjected to live vesicular stomatitis virus and rubella virus preparations, to interferon (IFN), and to a combination of both virus and IFN, and compared to control untreated otocysts. We observed morphologic and microscopic changes suggestive of individual cell death and delayed organ differentiation in the virus-treated groups, along with an appreciable decrease in size of the otocyst. Low-dose IFN treatment prior to virus inoculation appeared to partially prevent these effects. The addition of IFN alone did not seem to affect the differentiation process. Time-lapse videophotography further confirmed the above findings. This study suggests that the peripheral component of congenital deafness associated with viral infections is likely to be an effect of the virus itself, and not of the IFN. Interferon provides a partial protective effect against the insult from the virus in vitro and does not seem to be toxic to the developing otocyst.
Antigen presentation by nonhemopoietic cells amplifies clonal expansion of effector CD8 T cells in a pathogen-specific manner.	Professional APCs of hemopoietic-origin prime pathogen-specific naive CD8 T cells. The primed CD8 T cells can encounter Ag on infected nonhemopoietic cell types. Whether these nonhemopoietic interactions perpetuate effector T cell expansion remains unknown. We addressed this question in vivo, using four viral and bacterial pathogens, by comparing expansion of effector CD8 T cells in bone marrow chimeric mice expressing restricting MHC on all cell types vs mice that specifically lack restricting MHC on nonhemopoietic cell types or radiation-sensitive hemopoietic cell types. Absence of Ag presentation by nonhemopoietic cell types allowed priming of naive CD8 T cells in all four infection models tested, but diminished their sustained expansion by approximately 10-fold during lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus and by < or =2-fold during vaccinia virus, vesicular stomatitis virus, or Listeria monocytogenes infections. Absence of Ag presentation by a majority (>99%) of hemopoietic cells surprisingly also allowed initial priming of naive CD8 T cells in all the four infection models, albeit with delayed kinetics, but the sustained expansion of these primed CD8 T cells was markedly evident only during lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus, but not during vaccinia virus, vesicular stomatitis virus, or L. monocytogenes. Thus, infected nonhemopoietic cells can amplify effector CD8 T cell expansion during infection, but the extent to which they can amplify is determined by the pathogen. Further understanding of mechanisms by which pathogens differentially affect the ability of nonhemopoietic cell types to contribute to T cell expansion, how these processes alter during acute vs chronic phase of infections, and how these processes influence the quality and quantity of memory cells will have implications for rational vaccine design.
Natural product-derived modulators of cell cycle progression and viral entry by enantioselective oxa Diels-Alder reactions on the solid phase.	The underlying frameworks of natural product classes with multiple biological activities can be regarded as biologically selected and prevalidated starting points in vast chemical structure space in the development of compound collections for chemical biology and medicinal chemistry research. For the synthesis of natural product-derived and -inspired compound collections, the development of enantioselective transformations in a format amenable to library synthesis, e.g., on the solid support, is a major and largely unexplored goal. We report on the enantioselective solid-phase synthesis of a natural product-inspired alpha,beta-unsaturated delta-lactone collection and its investigation in cell-based screens monitoring cell cycle progression and viral entry into cells. The screens identified modulators of both biological processes at a high hit rate. The screen for inhibition of viral entry opens up avenues of research for the identification of compounds with antiviral activity.
Peripheral blood lymphocyte response to acute infections in humans.	The response of subpopulations of peripheral venous blood lymphocytes to systemic bacterial or viral infections was studied. B-lymphocytes were defined by the presence of surface binding sites for mu chains, which were determined by immunofluorescent staining. T-lymphocytes were defined by the ability to form active sheep cell rosettes. Virus-infectible lymphocytes, which may represent activated T-lymphocytes, were defined by the ability to support virus replication. Patients with bacterial infections had an increase in the B-lymphocytes of peripheral venous blood, whereas patients with viral infections had an increase in T-lymphocytes as compared to controls. The number of virus-infectible lymphocytes was increased in patients with bacterial infections but not in patients with viral infections. These studies suggest that subpopulations of human peripheral blood lymphocytes vary in response to different types of infectious agents.
Studies on the mechanism for entry of vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein G mRNA into membrane-bound polyribosome complexes.	Glycoprotein mRNA (G mRNA) of vesicular stomatitis virus is synthesized in the cytosol fraction of infected HeLa cells. Shortly after synthesis, this mRNA associates with 40S ribosomal subunits and subsequently forms 80S monosomes in the cytosol fraction. The bulk of labeled G mRNA is then found in polysomes associated with the membrane, without first appearing in the subunit or monomer pool of the membrane-bound fraction. Inhibition of the initiation of protein synthesis by pactamycin or muconomycin A blocks entry of newly synthesized G m RNA into membrane-bound polysomes. Under these circumstances, labeled G mRNA accumulates into the cytosol. Inhibition of the elongation of protein synthesis by cucloheximide, however, allows entry of 60 percent of newly synthesized G mRNA into membrane-bound polysomes. Furthermore, prelabeled G mRNA associated with membrane-bound polysomes is released from the membrane fraction in vivo by pactamycin or mucomycon A and in vitro by 1mM puromycin - 0.5 M KCI. This release is not due to nonspecific effects of the drugs. These results demonstrate that association of G mRNA with membrane-bound polysomes is dependent upon polysome formation and initiation of protein synthesis. Therefore, direct association of the 3' end of G mRNA with the membrane does not appear to be the initial event in the formation of membrane-bound polysomes.
Interferonogenic activity of gossypol, a low-molecular substance]	The interferonogenic activity of gossipol, a low molecular substance of polyphenolic nature was shown in the cell cultures of chick embryos and organisms of mice. Pronounced prophylactic efficiency of the drug in mice with experimental infection caused by the West Nile virus was found. Definite parallelism between the intensity of interferonogenesis and the protection level from the virus affection due to the use of gossipol in mice was noted. Difference between gossipol and other known low molecular inductors of interferon, such as dyes, tyloron, propandinamine is discussed. The possibility of using gossipol as an antiviral drug is presumed.
Mechanistic studies of polyene enhancement of interferon production by polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid.	The production of interferon by polyriboinosinic-polyribocytidylic acid [poly(I) . poly(C)] and poly(I) . poly(C)-diethylaminoethyl-dextran in L929 cells was enhanced from 10 to 100 times by polyene macrolides, including amphotericin B (AmB), AmB methyl ester, nystatin, and filipin. AmB and its water-soluble methyl ester were the most effective; retinol, a nonmacrolide polyene, was ineffective. Interferon induction by Newcastle disease virus was not enhanced by AmB. The kinetics of interferon production were not markedly altered by AmB. Polyenes and poly(I) . poly(C)-diethylaminoethyl-dextran did not need to be present on cells simultaneously to enhance interferon production. Pretreatment with polyenes was as effective as simultaneous addition. Even treatment of washed cells, several hours after removal of poly(I) . poly(C)-diethylaminoethyl-dextran, resulted in enhancement of interferon production. AmB did not appear to form a macromolecular complex with poly(I) . poly(C) in that neither the ultraviolet absorption spectrum nor the melting point of poly(I) . poly(C) was altered by mixing with AmB. Isotopic studies indicated that AmB did not enhance binding of poly(I) . poly(C) to cells. Since the macrolide polyenes have been demonstrated to bind to cell membrane sterols with subsequent alterations in membrane permeability barriers, they may enhance interferon production by increasing cell penetration of poly(I) . poly(C).
Single-dose live-attenuated Nipah virus vaccines confer complete protection by eliciting antibodies directed against surface glycoproteins.	Nipah virus (NiV), a zoonotic pathogen causing severe respiratory illness and encephalitis in humans, emerged in Malaysia in 1998 with subsequent outbreaks on an almost annual basis since 2001 in parts of the Indian subcontinent. The high case fatality rate, human-to-human transmission, wide-ranging reservoir distribution and lack of licensed intervention options are making NiV a serious regional and potential global public health problem. The objective of this study was to develop a fast-acting, single-dose NiV vaccine that could be implemented in a ring vaccination approach during outbreaks.
Integration of membrane proteins into the endoplasmic reticulum requires GTP.	We have examined the requirement for ribonucleotides and ribonucleotide triphosphate hydrolysis during early events in the membrane integration of two membrane proteins: the G protein of vesicular stomatitis virus and the hemagglutinin-neuraminidase (HN) glycoprotein of Newcastle disease virus. Both proteins contain a single transmembrane-spanning segment but are integrated in the membrane with opposite orientations. The G protein has an amino-terminal signal sequence and a stop-transfer sequence located near the carboxy terminus. The HN glycoprotein has a single sequence near the amino terminus that functions as both a signal-sequence and a transmembrane-spanning segment. Membrane insertion was explored using a cell-free system directed by transcribed mRNAs encoding amino-terminal segments of the two proteins. Ribosome-bound nascent polypeptides were assembled, ribonucleotides were removed by gel filtration chromatography, and the ribosomes were incubated with microsomal membranes under conditions of defined ribonucleotide content. Nascent chain insertion into the membrane required the presence of both the signal recognition particle and a functional signal recognition particle receptor. In the absence of ribonucleotides, insertion of nascent membrane proteins was not detected. GTP or nonhydrolyzable GTP analogues promoted efficient insertion, while ATP was comparatively ineffective. Surprisingly, the majority of the HN nascent chain remained ribosome associated after puromycin treatment. Ribosome-associated HN nascent chains remained competent for membrane insertion, while free HN chains were not competent. We conclude that a GTP binding protein performs an essential function during ribosome-dependent insertion of membrane proteins into the endoplasmic reticulum that is unrelated to protein synthesis.
Sequence of the Sendai virus L gene: open reading frames upstream of the main coding region suggest that the gene may be polycistronic.	The sequence of the L gene of Sendai virus, encompassing 6799 nucleotides, has been determined, completing the primary sequence of the entire virus genome. An open reading frame beginning at position 569 codes for a basic protein of 2048 amino acids with an estimated Mr of 231,608. No nucleotide sequence similarities with the analogous L gene of vesicular stomatitis virus were observed. However, comparison of the deduced amino acid sequences of both proteins revealed a conserved 18 amino acid sequence that may have functional significance. Two additional overlapping reading frames which precede the L protein sequence could encode proteins with MrS of 6474 and 14,026, suggesting that the gene is polycistronic.
Oligomerization is essential for transport of vesicular stomatitis viral glycoprotein to the cell surface.	Using ts045, a temperature sensitive strain of Vesicular stomatitis virus, we show that oligomerization of G protein is a prerequisite for its transport from RER to the Golgi apparatus and for its subsequent maturation. While wild-type G forms an oligomer in the RER, ts045 G synthesized at the nonpermissive temperature does not. When the permissive temperature is reinstated, ts045 G forms an oligomer and moves to the Golgi. The state of oligomerization was determined by chemical cross-linking and by the ability of a microinjected monoclonal antibody specific for the carboxy-terminal five amino acids of the cytoplasmic tail of G to cause patching of G in intracellular membranes. We conclude that formation of an oligomer of G protein, probably a trimer, is necessary for G protein maturation.
Survey of interferon production and sensitivity human cell lines.	Seven presumed diploid and 11 established cell lines were studied for their ability to produce free interferon in response to a standardized Newcastle disease virus challenge. Interferon production was evaluated in both serum-containing and serum-free medium. The ability of these cell lines to respond to the application of a standard interferon preparation by becoming resistant to virus was also examined. The diploid lines were distinctly more efficient producers of interferon than were the established lines. They also evidenced a greater requirement for serum to produce their maximum titers, but some were able to produce good titers in serum-free medium. The diploid lines were uniformly more sensitive to the application of exogenous interferon than were the established cell lines and attained greater degrees of virus resistance, but all lines tested displayed measurable sensitivity to interferon.
Human chromosome 21 dosage: effect on the expression of the interferon induced antiviral state.	Human primary skin fibroblasts trisomic for chromosome 13, 18, or 21 and diploid human skin fibroblasts were induced for an antiviral response with human interferon. The cells that were trisomnic for chromosome 21 were three to seven times more sensitive to protection by human interferon than the normal diploid or trisomic 18 or 13 fibroblasts. The differential response in trisomnic 21 cells is consistent with the known assignment of the human antiviral gene to chromosome 21.
Changes in ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity during early stages of vesicular stomatitis virus infection. Effects of concanavalin A.	Study of ecto-5'-nucleotidase was performed in cultured epithelial cells, infected with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Changes in the enzymatic activity were measured in terms of TCID50 and exposure time. The effects of an enzyme inhibitor, Con A, were also investigated during the interaction between virus and cells.
Role of macrophage oxidative metabolism in resistance to vesicular stomatitis virus infection.	The role of oxygen metabolites in mediating virucidal activity was studied in two cloned macrophage-like cell lines. The parental cell line, J774.16, upon appropriate stimulation with either phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) or aggregated immunoglobulin, is induced to oxidize glucose via the hexose monophosphate shunt and produce O2- and H2O2. A variant derived from it, clone C3C, is defective in oxidative metabolism and cannot be stimulated to produce O2- or H2O2. Significant differences in yields of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) between stimulated clone 16 cells and unstimulated cells could be obtained only when low multiplicities were used for infection. Under the same conditions, PMA stimulation of the variant clone C3C produced no reduction in yields. The effect of PMA on virus yields in clone 16 was short-lived and dose dependent. PMA stimulation of either cell line had no effect on the number of infectious centers, suggesting that the antiviral effect was likely to be an extracellular, rather than an intracellular, one. Using glucose oxidase plus aglucose to generate H2O2 in solution, we observed that H2O2 alone is capable of killing limited amounts of VSV. The inactivation of VSV, both by H2O2 in solution and by activated clone 16 cells, could be inhibited by catalase. We conclude that intracellular resistance to VSV is primarily mediated through nonoxidative mechanisms, since activated macrophages can kill only a limited number of infectious virus particles extracellularly by means of secreted H2O2.
Altered G-protein glycosylation in vesicular stomatitis virus-infected glucose-deprived baby hamster kidney cells.	The glycosylation of the G-protein was analyzed in vesicular stomatitis virus-infected baby hamster kidney cells incubated in the absence of glucose. The results indicate that the G-protein in glucose-starved cells is initially glycosylated from a lipid donor with a glucosylated oligosaccharide which is resistant to endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H and partially susceptible to alpha-mannosidase. With longer times, the protein-bound carbohydrate chain becomes much more sensitive to alpha-mannosidase while remaining endo-beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase H-resistant. Purified virions from glucose-starved baby hamster kidney cells, labeled with [35S]methionine and isolated on a sucrose gradient, contain altered forms of the G-protein, whereas the other viral proteins remain unchanged. These altered forms could also be radiolabeled with [3H]mannose, and upon analysis of labeled glycopeptides by chromatography on concanavalin A-Sepharose and Bio-Gel P-6, it was apparent that modification of the oligosaccharide portion of the G-protein occurs in baby hamster kidney cells, leading to aberrant mature carbohydrate chains.
Melanoma skin test antigens of improved sensitivity prepared from vesicular stomatitis virus-infected tumor cells.	Crude membrane (CM) extracts from three different cultured human melanoma lines that were "virus-augmented" (infected with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) and subsequently inactivated by ultraviolet light) produced positive skin tests in 17 of 20 (85%), 11 of 20 (55%), and 13 of 18 (72%) tests, respectively, performed in 20 melanoma patients. Identical CM extracts from the same melanoma lines that had not been infected with VSV gave positive skin tests in 2 of 20 (10%), 4 of 20 (20%), and 2 of 18 (11%) tests, respectively, performed in the 20 melanoma patients, and no positive tests in the control patients. The 3 virus-augmented extracts were positive in only 2 of 18 (11%), 0 of 18 (0%), and 1 of 17 (6%) control subjects, respectively. The controls consisted of six normal volunteers and 12 patients with cancers other than melanoma. The "virus-augmented" CM extracts thus exhibited markedly greater sensitivity without significant loss of specificity as compared to nonvirus augmented extracts when used as tumor-specific melaonma skin test antigens.
