Dose-dependent transduction of vesicular stomatitis virus G protein-pseudotyped retrovirus vector into human solid tumor cell lines and murine fibroblasts.	We examined the transduction efficiency of a VSV-G (vesicular stomatitis virus G protein)-pseudotyped vector encoding beta-galactosidase (lacZ) into human solid tumor cell lines and murine fibroblasts, compared with that of an amphotropic vector carrying the same RNA sequence. The ratio of cells transduced with the VSV-G-pseudotyped vector corresponded closely to 1 - e(-m.o.i.), as predicted from a Poisson distribution of transduction to the entire cellular population, while this was not the case for the amphotropic vector. Here m.o.i. (multiplicity of infection) is defined as the ratio of input infectious units (titrated on the corresponding cell line) to the number of cells used for the transduction. At high m.o.i.s (values greater than 3), the VSV-G-pseudotyped vector transduced approximately 95% of the culture population of all cell lines examined. The transduction efficiency of the amphotropic vector, however, was not dose-dependent and reached a plateau or even decreased, especially at high m.o.i.; this may be attributable at least in part to the presence of envelope protein and noninfectious particles that compete for the receptor of infectious amphotropic virus. The copy number of integrated vector proviral DNA and the expression level of lacZ increased almost linearly with the dose of the VSV-G-pseudotyed vector, which could readily achieve multiple transduction of more than 10 copies per cell and afforded about 100-fold more transgene product than could be achieved with the amphotropic vector. These features of both the VSV-G-pseudotyped vector and the amphotropic vector were essentially unaffected by purification using centrifugation. These properties of the vector should be highly advantageous for gene transfer into entire populations of human tumor cell lines at a designed dosage.
Functional measurement of hepatitis C virus core-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses in the livers or peripheral blood of patients by using autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells as targets or stimulators.	As is widely recognized, CD8(+) cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTLs) play a crucial role in hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, both in pathogenesis of liver injury and in clearing the virus. CTL studies with HCV-infected patients have been difficult because of the relatively low frequency of CTL precursors in the peripheral blood and because the targeted epitopes vary depending on the human leukocyte antigen (HLA) types of the individuals. This study attempts to overcome these problems by assessing the feasibility of using autologous peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) expressing viral antigens as stimulators or targets in order to monitor the CTL responses. Primary PBMCs were transduced using a retroviral vector pseudotyped with a vesicular stomatitis virus G glycoprotein expressing the HCV core gene. Additionally, the vector-transduced PBMCs were used as targets of CTL assays to measure the HCV core-specific CTL activities from the liver-infiltrating lymphocytes of six different HLA-type patients with chronic HCV infection. The core-expressing PBMCs also served as stimulators, allowing us to measure core-specific CD8(+) T-cell responses by intracellular gamma interferon staining of the peripheral blood of hepatitis C patients who had received treatment with alpha interferon plus ribavirin. This approach provides an efficient means of measuring antigen-specific CTL responses without HLA constraints.
Oncolytic vesicular stomatitis virus for treatment of orthotopic hepatocellular carcinoma in immune-competent rats.	Tumor-targeted replicating viruses are being developed as a novel class of oncolytic agents. Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) is a negative-strand RNA virus with inherent specificity for replication in tumor cells due to their attenuated antiviral responses. VSV as an oncolytic virus is particularly appealing for its exceptionally rapid replication rate in tumor cells, such that the oncolytic effects could be maximally manifested before the onset of potentially neutralizing antiviral immune responses in the host. To easily monitor VSV replication, we have rescued a recombinant VSV (rVSV) vector expressing the green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene (rVSV-GFP). Using this GFP-expressing virus, we have demonstrated the oncolytic potential of VSV against human and rat hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We found that rVSV-GFP replicated efficiently in cultured human and rat HCC cells, whereas normal human and rat hepatocytes were refractory. When a single dose of the vector was injected intratumorally into large orthotopically implanted HCC in immune-competent rats, rVSV-GFP effectively and selectively replicated throughout the solid tumor mass without apparent hepatotoxicity, caused tumor destruction, and inhibited tumor growth, which led to significant prolongation of animal survival. Our results show that VSV is an effective oncolytic agent against HCC in immune-competent hosts and warrants further development for future therapy in patients with HCC.
Characterization and detection of artificial replication-competent lentivirus of altered host range.	Replication-competent lentivirus (RCL) may be generated during the production phase or subsequently after introduction of a lentiviral vector into target cells, potentially by homologous or nonhomologous recombination. Because most gene transfer of HIV-based vectors involves the use of high-titer vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) G-pseudotyped particles, one particular concern would be the generation of an RCL of altered host range, i.e., one that has incorporated the VSV G envelope in cis configuration. We report here on the artificial generation and properties of such a virus, including its detection after biological amplification. Viral spread, beginning with a very low inoculum, takes several weeks in culture and is characterized by "autoinfection," resulting in multiple proviral copies per cell, higher levels of viral gene expression, and eventual cell death. After this initial amplification step, the RCL is easily detectable by standard p24 assay or by "marker-rescue" assay. For the latter, a 293T-based cell line that has an integrated replication-defective provirus encoding alkaline phosphatase (AP) was used and mobilization of AP-containing virus was detected by transduction of naïve cells. Replication-defective virus was not amplified nor detected, demonstrating assay specificity. These results suggest that these artificial RCLs of broad host range have slightly different biological properties compared to wild-type HIV but still spread and are readily detectable.
Development of a novel surrogate virus for human T-cell leukemia virus type 1: inhibition of infection by osteoprotegerin.	To develop a high-titer surrogate virus for human T-cell leukemia virus type 1 (HTLV-1), we generated recombinant vesicular stomatitis viruses (VSVs) in which the gene encoding the single transmembrane glycoprotein (G) was deleted. Genes encoding HTLV-1 envelope glycoproteins (HTEnv) or HTEnvG hybrid proteins were then inserted into either of two different sites in the VSV genome. The viruses also encoded a green fluorescent protein. With this surrogate virus, we found that a soluble protein, osteoprotegerin (OPG), or an OPG/Fc chimeric protein inhibited the infection of various cell lines. Our experiments indicate that this inhibition resulted from binding of heparan sulfate by OPG.
Oncolytic viruses for genetic therapy of gastrointestinal tumors]	Gastroenterological oncology requires new strategies with new mechanisms of action and without cross-resistance to currently available treatment regimes. Virotherapy which is based on the employment of replication-competent viral vectors exhibiting strong oncolytic properties is such an approach currently under preclinical/clinical investigation. Techniques of molecular virology are required for further improvement of current vectors, particularly with respect to oncolytic activity, tumour selectivity, tumour spread capacity, and safety.
Local expression and exocytosis of viral glycoproteins in multinucleated muscle cells.	We have analyzed the distribution of enveloped viral infections in multinucleated L6 muscle cells. A temperature-sensitive vesicular stomatitis virus (mutant VSV ts045) was utilized at the nonpermissive temperature (39 degrees C). As expected, the glycoprotein (G protein) of this mutant was restricted to the ER when the multinucleated cells were maintained at 39 degrees C. We demonstrate that this G protein remained localized when the infection was performed at low dose. By 4 h after infection the G protein patches spanned an average of 220 microns. The localization was independent of nuclear positions, showing that the ER was a peripheric structure. Thus, the infection did not recognize nuclear domains characteristic of nuclearly encoded proteins. After release of the 39 degrees C block, transport through a perinuclear compartment into a restricted surface domain lying above the internal G protein patch occurred. Accordingly, the transport pathway was locally restricted. After a 16-h infection the G protein spanned 420 microns, while the matrix protein occupied 700-800 microns of the myotube length. Double infection of multinucleated L6 muscle cells with Semliki Forest virus and VSV at high multiplicities showed that the glycoprotein of each virus occupied intracellular domains which were devoid of the other respective glycoprotein. Taken together, these findings indicate that the viral glycoproteins did not range far from their site of synthesis within the ER or other intracellular membrane compartments in these large cells. This result also suggests that relocation of viral RNA synthesis occurred slowly.
Vesicular stomatitis virus matrix protein inhibits host cell-directed transcription of target genes in vivo.	Infection by vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) results in a rapid inhibition of host cell transcription and translation. To determine whether the viral matrix (M) protein was involved in this inhibition of host cell gene expression, an M protein expression vector was cotransfected with a target gene vector, encoding the target gene, encoding chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT). Expression of M protein caused a decrease in CAT activity in a gene dosage-dependent manner, and inhibition was apparent by 12 h posttransfection. The inhibitory effect of M protein was quite potent. The level of M protein required for a 10-fold inhibition of CAT activity was less than 1% of the level of M protein produced during the sixth hour of VSV infection. Northern (RNA) analysis of cotransfected cells showed that expression of M protein caused a reduction in the steady-state level of the vector-encoded mRNAs. Expression of both CAT and M mRNAs was reduced in cells cotransfected with a plasmid encoding M protein, indicating that expression of small amounts of M protein from plasmid DNA inhibits further expression of both M and CAT mRNAs. Nuclear runoff transcription analysis demonstrated that expression of M protein inhibited transcription of the target genes. This is the first report of a viral gene product which is capable of inhibiting transcription in vivo in the absence of any other viral component.
Highly effective control of an AIDS virus challenge in macaques by using vesicular stomatitis virus and modified vaccinia virus Ankara vaccine vectors in a single-boost protocol.	Previous studies have shown that vaccination and boosting of rhesus macaques with attenuated vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) vectors encoding Env and Gag proteins of simian immunodeficiency virus-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV) hybrid viruses protect rhesus macaques from AIDS after challenge with the highly pathogenic SHIV 89.6P (23). In the present study, we compared the effectiveness of a single prime-boost protocol consisting of VSV vectors expressing SHIV Env, Gag, and Pol proteins to that of a protocol consisting of a VSV vector prime followed with a single boost with modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA) expressing the same SHIV proteins. After challenge with SHIV 89.6P, MVA-boosted animals controlled peak challenge viral loads to less than 2 x 10(6) copies/ml (a level significantly lower than that seen with VSV-boosted animals and lower than those reported for other vaccine studies employing the same challenge). MVA-boosted animals have shown excellent preservation of CD4(+) T cells, while two of four VSV-boosted animals have shown significant loss of CD4(+) T cells. The improved protection in MVA-boosted animals correlates with trends toward stronger prechallenge CD8(+)-T-cell responses to SHIV antigens and stronger postchallenge SHIV-neutralizing antibody production.
Control of nonsegmented negative-strand RNA virus replication by siRNA.	Our laboratory provided the first proof-of-concept that double-stranded short interfering RNA (ds-siRNA) can act as potent and specific antiviral agents. Designed against specific mRNAs of nonsegmented negative-stranded RNA (NNR) viruses, siRNAs abrogated expression of the corresponding viral proteins, and generated the predicted viral phenotypes. Knockdown was demonstrated across different genera: respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), a pneumovirus; vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), a rhabdovirus; and human parainfluenza virus (HPIV), a paramyxovirus. The targeted genes could have a wide range of functions, thus documenting the versatility of the technique. Interestingly, antisense single-stranded siRNA (ss-siRNA) was also effective, albeit at a higher concentration. NNR viral genomic and antigenomic RNA, which are encapsidated by nucleocapsid protein and serve as templates for viral RNA-dependent RNA polymerase, were resistant to siRNA. Together, siRNAs offer complementary advantages over traditional mutational analyses that are difficult to perform in NNR viruses, and are also an important new tool to dissect host-virus interactive pathways.
The hypervariable region 1 of the E2 glycoprotein of hepatitis C virus binds to glycosaminoglycans, but this binding does not lead to infection in a pseudotype system.	The hypervariable region 1 (HVR1) of hepatitis C virus (HCV) E2 envelope glycoprotein is a 27-amino-acid sequence located at its N terminus. In this study, we investigated the functional role of HVR1 for interaction with the mammalian cell surface. The C-terminal truncated E2 glycoprotein was appended to a transmembrane domain and cytoplasmic tail of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) G protein for generation of the chimeric E2-G gene construct. A deletion of the HVR1 sequence from E2 was created for the construction of E2DeltaHVR1-G. Pseudotype virus, generated separately by infection of a stable cell line expressing E2-G or E2DeltaHVR1-G with a temperature-sensitive mutant of VSV (VSVts045), displayed unique functional properties compared to VSVts045 as a negative control. Virus generated from E2DeltaHVR1-G had a reduced plaquing efficiency ( approximately 50%) in HepG2 cells compared to that for the E2-G virus. Cells prior treated with pronase (0.5 U/ml) displayed a complete inhibition of infectivity of the E2DeltaHVR1-G or E2-G pseudotypes, whereas heparinase I treatment (8 U/ml) of cells reduced 40% E2-G pseudotype virus titer only. E2DeltaHVR1-G pseudotypes were not sensitive to heparin (6 to 50 micro g/ml) as an inhibitor of plaque formation compared to the E2-G pseudotype virus. Although the HVR1 sequence itself does not match with the known heparin-binding domain, a synthetic peptide representing 27 amino acids of the E2 HVR1 displayed a strong affinity for heparin in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. This binding was competitively inhibited by a peptide from the V3 loop of a human immunodeficiency virus glycoprotein subunit (gp120) known to bind with cell surface heparin. Taken together, our results suggest that the HVR1 of E2 glycoprotein binds to the cell surface proteoglycans and may facilitate virus-host interaction for replication cycle of HCV.
Functional analysis of late-budding domain activity associated with the PSAP motif within the vesicular stomatitis virus M protein.	A PPPY motif within the M protein of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) functions as a late-budding domain (L-domain); however, L-domain activity has yet to be associated with a downstream PSAP motif. VSV recombinants with mutations in the PPPY and/or PSAP motif were recovered by reverse genetics and examined for growth kinetics, plaque size, and budding efficiency by electron microscopy. Results indicate that unlike the PPPY motif, the PSAP motif alone does not possess L-domain activity. Finally, the insertion of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 p6 L-domain and flanking sequences into the PSAP region of M protein rescued budding of a PPPY mutant of VSV to wild-type levels.
Complement regulatory proteins are incorporated into lentiviral vectors and protect particles against complement inactivation.	Lentiviral vectors pseudotyped with G glycoprotein from vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV-G) and baculovirus gp64 are inactivated by human complement. The extent of vector inactivation in serum from individual donors was examined and results showed wide donor-dependent variation in complement sensitivity for VSV-G-pseudotyped lentivectors. Amphotropic envelope (Ampho)-pseudotyped vectors were generally resistant to serum from all donors, while gp64-pseudotyped vectors were inactivated but showed less donor-to-donor variation than VSV-G. In animal sera, the vectors were mostly resistant to inactivation by rodent complement, whereas canine complement caused a moderate reduction in titer. In a novel advance for the lentiviral vector system, human complement-resistant-pseudotyped lentivector particles were produced through incorporation of complement regulatory proteins (CRPs). Decay accelerating factor (DAF)/CD55 provided the most effective protection using this method, while membrane cofactor protein (MCP)/CD46 showed donor-dependent protection and CD59 provided little or no protection against complement inactivation. Unlike previous approaches using CRPs to produce complement-resistant viral vectors, CRP-containing lentivectors particles were generated for this study without engineering the CRP molecules. Thus, through overexpression of native DAF/CD55 in the viral producer cell, an easy method was developed for generation of lentiviral vectors that are almost completely resistant to inactivation by human complement. Production of complement-resistant lentiviral particles is a critical step toward use of these vectors for in vivo gene therapy applications.
Immunogenicity of attenuated vesicular stomatitis virus vectors expressing HIV type 1 Env and SIV Gag proteins: comparison of intranasal and intramuscular vaccination routes.	An experimental AIDS vaccine based on attenuated, recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (rVSV), when administered by a combination of parenteral and mucosal routes, has proven effective at preventing AIDS in a rhesus macaque model (Rose NF, et al.: Cell 2001;106:539-549). In an effort to determine the optimal route of vaccine administration we evaluated the ability of rVSV-based vaccine vectors expressing HIV-1 Env and SIV Gag proteins, when given either intramuscularly (i.m.) or intranasally (i.n.), to elicit antigen-specific cellular and humoral immune responses, and to protect from a subsequent vaginal challenge with simian-human immunodeficiency virus (SHIV89.6P). Our results demonstrate that macaques vaccinated by the i.n. route developed significantly higher antigen-specific cellular immune responses as determined by MHC class I tetramer staining, IFN-gamma ELISPOT, and cytotoxic T cell assays. However, systemic and mucosal humoral immune responses did not vary significantly with the route of vaccine administration. Given the importance of cell-mediated immune responses in slowing AIDS progression, intranasal delivery of a VSV-based AIDS vaccine may be an optimal as well as practical route for vaccination and should be considered in design of clinical trials.
VSV disrupts the Rae1/mrnp41 mRNA nuclear export pathway.	Interference with nucleocytoplasmic transport is a strategy employed by certain viruses to compromise host cellular function. While it has been shown that the matrix (M) protein of the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) inhibits nuclear export of host cell mRNAs, the underlying mechanism has not been fully established. Here we show that VSV M protein binds the mRNA export factor Rae1/mrnp41. A mutant of M protein defective in Rae1 binding is unable to inhibit mRNA nuclear export. We further show that increased expression of Rae1 fully reverts the inhibition of mRNA export induced by M protein or following virus infection. We found that Rae1 is induced by interferon-gamma, a cytokine that plays a critical role in the immune response to viruses, such as VSV. Thus, these results demonstrate that VSV M protein blocks mRNA export by disrupting Rae1 function, which can be reverted by induction of Rae1 expression.
Following the very initial growth of biological RNA viral clones.	Due to their extremely high genetic diversity, which is a direct consequence of high mutation rates, RNA viruses are often described as molecular quasispecies. According to this theory, RNA virus populations cannot be understood in terms of individual viral clones, as they are clouds of interconnected mutants, but this prediction has not yet been demonstrated experimentally. The goal of this study was to determine the fitness of individual clones sampled from a given RNA virus population, a necessary previous step to test the above prediction. To do so, limiting dilutions of a vesicular stomatitis virus population were employed to isolate single viral clones and their initial growth dynamics were followed, corresponding to the release of the first few hundred viral particles. This technique is useful for estimating basic fitness parameters, such as intracellular growth rate, viral yield per cell, rate at which cells are infected and time spent in cell-to-cell transmission. A combination of these parameters allows estimation of the fitness of individual clones, which seems to be determined mainly by their ability to complete infection cycles more quickly. Interestingly, fitness was systematically higher for initial clones than for their derived populations. In addition to environmental changes, such as cellular defence mechanisms, these differences are attributable to high RNA virus mutation rates.
Lentiviral vectors pseudotyped with glycoproteins from Ross River and vesicular stomatitis viruses: variable transduction related to cell type and culture conditions.	HIV-1-derived lentiviral vectors have been pseudotyped with various envelope glycoproteins to alter their host range. Previously, we found that envelope glycoproteins derived from the alphavirus Ross River virus (RRV) can pseudotype lentiviral vectors and mediate efficient transduction of a variety of epithelial and fibroblast-derived cell lines. In this study, we have investigated transduction of hematopoietic cells using RRV-pseudotyped vectors encoding the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP). RRV-mediated transduction of human CD34+ cord blood cells and progenitors was very inefficient, even at multiplicities of infection of 100 (0.4% EGFP-positive progenitor colonies). Inefficient transduction was also observed in a variety of hematopoietic cell lines. However, two erythroleukemia-derived cell lines and monocytic cells that were driven to macrophage-like differentiation were moderately transduced. Transduction of hematopoietic cells with a control VSV-G-pseudotyped lentiviral vector was generally efficient, but unexpectedly decreased up to threefold upon stimulation of lymphocytic cell lines or primary murine bone marrow cells. Also, the tested hematopoietic cell lines were essentially nonpermissive for adeno-associated type 2 (AAV) vectors, and this was not affected by lineage, activity, or differentiation. Treatment of permissive 293 cells with proteases revealed that transduction with both the RRV- and the VSV-G-pseudotyped vectors in part depends on the presence of cell surface proteins. These results show a severely restricted ability of RRV glycoproteins to mediate transduction in hematopoietic cells that is likely due to specific receptor requirements that differ from those of VSV-G and AAV. Conversely, transduction with the VSV glycoprotein is affected by cellular activation more than widely believed. Our findings suggest that the envelope glycoproteins and culture conditions employed need to be carefully evaluated for each application. Furthermore, the uniquely restricted host range of RRV-pseudotyped vectors may aid in the design of novel cell-selective transduction strategies.
Seroepidemiology of human metapneumovirus (hMPV) on the basis of a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay utilizing hMPV fusion protein expressed in recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus.	Human metapneumovirus (hMPV) is a newly identified human respiratory virus now recognized as a major respiratory pathogen of infants and children. To define the seroepidemiology of hMPV, we developed a novel enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) based on expression of the fusion protein of hMPV (hMPV F) in recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Western blot analysis using an hMPV F-specific antiserum confirmed the expression of hMPV in recombinant VSV. The ELISA is specific for hMPV F; antibody specific for the most closely related human paramyxovirus, respiratory syncytial virus, does not bind to hMPV F. Overall, 216 serum specimens were tested. The percentages of seropositive individuals were 89.1% in children < or =5 months old, 55.0% in children 6 to 11 months old, 36.0% in children 12 to 23 months old, 45.0% in children 24 to 47 months old, 77.3% in children 48 to 59 months old, 91.3% in children 5 to 10 years old, and 95.5% for individuals 11 to 20 years old. This is the first seroepidemiological survey of hMPV in the United States and the first analysis to determine the prevalence of antibody to a specific hMPV protein. The data suggest that exposure to hMPV is common in childhood and that hMPV F is an antigenic determinant of hMPV.
A single amino acid change in the L-polymerase protein of vesicular stomatitis virus completely abolishes viral mRNA cap methylation.	The vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) RNA polymerase synthesizes viral mRNAs with 5'-cap structures methylated at the guanine-N7 and 2'-O-adenosine positions (7mGpppA(m)). Previously, our laboratory showed that a VSV host range (hr) and temperature-sensitive (ts) mutant, hr1, had a complete defect in mRNA cap methylation and that the wild-type L protein could complement the hr1 defect in vitro. Here, we sequenced the L, P, and N genes of mutant hr1 and found only two amino acid substitutions, both residing in the L-polymerase protein, which differentiate hr1 from its wild-type parent. These mutations (N505D and D1671V) were introduced separately and together into the L gene, and their effects on VSV in vitro transcription and in vivo chloramphenicol acetyltransferase minigenome replication were studied under conditions that are permissive and nonpermissive for hr1. Neither L mutation significantly affected viral RNA synthesis at 34 degrees C in permissive (BHK) and nonpermissive (HEp-2) cells, but D1671V reduced in vitro transcription and genome replication by about 50% at 40 degrees C in both cell lines. Recombinant VSV bearing each mutation were isolated, and the hr and ts phenotypes in infected cells were the result of a single D1671V substitution in the L protein. While the mutations did not significantly affect mRNA synthesis by purified viruses, 5'-cap analyses of product mRNAs clearly demonstrated that the D1671V mutation abrogated all methyltransferase activity. Sequence analysis suggests that an aspartic acid at amino acid 1671 is a critical residue within a putative conserved S-adenosyl-l-methionine-binding domain of the L protein.
Leutropin/beta-adrenergic receptor chimeras bind choriogonadotropin and adrenergic ligands but are not expressed at the cell surface.	In some G-protein-coupled receptors (e.g. beta-adrenergic receptor (beta 2 AR)), the ligand-binding pocket is contained within the hydrophobic transmembrane domain. In others (e.g. luteinizing hormone receptor (LHR)), the relative roles of the extracellular N-terminal domain and the transmembrane region in hormone binding are unknown. To study the roles of these domains, we prepared vectors encoding the rat LHR N-terminal domain alone (L- -), the LHR N-terminal domain fused to the transmembrane and C-terminal domains of the vesicular stomatitis virus-G protein (LVV), the LHR N-terminal domain fused to the transmembrane and C-terminal domains of the hamster beta 2 AR (LAA), and the beta 2 AR N-terminal domain fused to the transmembrane and C-terminal domains of the rat LHR (ALL). Membrane preparations obtained from COS-7 cells expressing the beta 2 AR or LAA bound the beta-adrenergic antagonist 125I-cyanopindolol with equal affinity, confirming the observation that the beta 2 AR transmembrane domain forms the hormone-binding site. Membranes from COS-7 cells transfected with LHR bound 125I-human choriomic gonadotropin (hCG). However, membranes from LAA-, L(- -)-, and LVV-transfected cells had low capacity to bind 125I-hCG unless they were solubilized with Triton X-100. The affinity of the detergent-solubilized receptors for 125I-hCG was similar to that of the LHR. We were unable to detect binding of 125I-hCG to ALL in the presence or absence of detergent. These observations suggest that, whereas the transmembrane region of the beta 2 AR is sufficient to bind adrenergic ligands, the N-terminal region of the LHR is required for binding of hCG. Although the N terminus of the LHR is sufficient to bind hCG, both the N terminus and the transmembrane domains of the LHR are required for receptor expression on the cell surface.
Membrane fusion activity, oligomerization, and assembly of the rabies virus glycoprotein.	The spike glycoprotein (G protein) of rabies virus (CVS strain) expressed in HeLa cells from cloned cDNA mediated membrane fusion after exposure to pHs of 6.1 or below. Chemical crosslinking showed that the rabies G protein, like the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) G protein, could be crosslinked to dimers and trimers, indicating that rabies G protein is a trimer. However, unlike the VSV G protein, rabies G protein trimers were not stable to sedimentation in sucrose gradients, even at a mildly acidic pH which stabilizes the VSV G protein trimers. In addition, we report that the expressed rabies virus G protein was functional because it could assemble into VSV particles (tsO45) lacking VSV G protein and rescue infectivity. These VSV (rabies) pseudotypes were neutralized only by an antibody to the rabies G protein. We also examined the properties of a hybrid protein containing the extracellular domain of the rabies virus glycoprotein and the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of the VSV G protein. This protein was transported to the cell surface and could be crosslinked to form dimers and trimers, but had little or no detectable membrane fusion activity. The lack of fusion activity was paradoxical because the hybrid protein could rescue VSV infectivity, although the titers were lower than those obtained with the wild-type rabies G protein.
Fatty acid acylation is not required for membrane fusion activity or glycoprotein assembly into VSV virions.	We have investigated the role of fatty acid acylation on two properties of the glycoprotein (G protein) from the Indiana serotype of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV). Using a mutated G protein described previously (CS-2) that is not palmitylated, we found that fatty acid acylation was not required for the low pH-induced membrane fusion activity of VSV G protein. Transient expression of CS in HeLa cells resulted in syncytia formation that was indistinguishable from that induced by wild-type G protein. In addition, we found that expression of CS complemented a temperature-sensitive mutant of VSV (tsO45) as well as the wild-type protein. These results indicate that the presence of palmitate on the cytoplasmic domain of VSV G protein is not required for any step in the life cycle of the virus.
The effect of co- and superinfection on the adaptive dynamics of vesicular stomatitis virus.	In many infectious diseases, hosts are often simultaneously infected with several genotypes of the same pathogen. Much theoretical work has been done on modelling multiple infection dynamics, but empirical evidences are relatively scarce. Previous studies have demonstrated that coinfection allows faster adaptation than single infection in RNA viruses. Here, we use experimental populations of the vesicular stomatitis Indiana virus derived from an infectious cDNA, to show that superinfection dynamics promotes faster adaptation than single infection. In addition, we have analysed two different periodicities of multiple infection, daily and separated 5 days in time. Daily multiple infections allow higher fitness increases than multiple infections taking place every 5 days. We propose that the effect of superinfection on fitness is mainly influenced by the time elapsed between the first and the second infection, since shorter time intervals offer more opportunities to competition between resident and invading populations.
Viral vectors for malaria vaccine development.	A workshop on viral vectors for malaria vaccine development, organized by the PATH Malaria Vaccine Initiative, was held in Bethesda, MD on October 20, 2005. Recent advancements in viral-vectored malaria vaccine development and emerging vector technologies were presented and discussed. Classic viral vectors such as poxvirus, adenovirus and alphavirus vectors have been successfully used to deliver malaria antigens. Some of the vaccine candidates have demonstrated their potential in inducing malaria-specific immunity in animal models and human trials. In addition, emerging viral-vector technologies, such as measles virus (MV), vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) and yellow fever (YF) virus, may also be useful for malaria vaccine development. Studies in animal models suggest that each viral vector is unique in its ability to induce humoral and/or cellular immune responses. Those studies have also revealed that optimization of Plasmodium genes for mammalian expression is an important aspect of vaccine design. Codon-optimization, surface-trafficking, de-glycosylation and removal of toxic domains can lead to improved immunogenicity. Understanding the vector's ability to induce an immune response and the expression of malaria antigens in mammalian cells will be critical in designing the next generation of viral-vectored malaria vaccines.
An optimized vaccine vector based on recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus gives high-level, long-term protection against Yersinia pestis challenge.	We have developed recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) vectors expressing the Yersinia pestis lcrV gene. These vectors, given intranasally to mice, induced high antibody titers to the LcrV protein and protected against intranasal (pulmonary) challenge with Y. pestis. High-level protection was dependent on using an optimized VSV vector that expressed high levels of the LcrV protein from an lcrV gene placed in the first position in the VSV genome, followed by a single boost. This VSV-based vaccine vector system has potential as a plague vaccine protecting against virulent strains lacking the F1 protein.
Matrix protein of VSV New Jersey serotype containing methionine to arginine substitutions at positions 48 and 51 allows near-normal host cell gene expression.	The matrix (M) protein of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) plays significant roles in the replication of VSV through its involvement in the assembly of virus particles as well as by facilitating the evasion of innate host cell defense mechanisms. The presence of methionine at position 51 (M51) of the matrix (M) protein of the VSV Indiana serotype (VSV(Ind)) has been proven to be crucial for cell rounding and inhibition of host cell gene expression. The M protein of VSV(Ind) with the substitution of M51 with arginine (R:M51R) results in the loss of inhibitory effects on host cell gene expression. The VSV(Ind) expressing the M(M51R) protein became the attractive oncolytic virus which is safer and more tumor-specific because the normal cells can clear the mutant VSV(Ind) easily but tumor cells are susceptible to the virus because a variety of tumor cells lack innate antiviral activities. We have studied the role of the methionines at positions 48 and 51 of the M protein of the New Jersey serotype of VSV (VSV(NJ)) in the induction of cytopathic effects (CPE) and host cell gene expression. We have generated human embryonic kidney 293 cell lines inducibly expressing M proteins with M to R mutations at positions 48 and 51, either separately or together as a double mutant, and examined expression of heat shock protein 70 (HSP70) as an indicator of host cell gene expression. We have also generated recombinant VSV(NJ) encoding the mutant M proteins M(M48R) or M(M48R+M51R) for the first time and tested for the expression of HSP70 in infected cells. Our results demonstrated that the M51 of VSV(NJ) M proteins has a major role in cell rounding and in suppressing the host cell gene expression either when the M protein was expressed alone in inducible cell lines or when expressed together with other VSV proteins by the recombinant VSV(NJ). Amino acid residue M48 may also have some role in cell rounding and in the inhibitory effects of VSV(NJ) M, which was demonstrated by the fact that the cell line expressing the double substitution mutant M(M48R+M51R) exhibited the least cytopathic effects and the least inhibitory effect on host cell gene expression.
Therapeutic efficacy of vesicular stomatitis virus-based E6 vaccination in rabbits.	Millions of people worldwide are currently infected with human papillomaviruses (HPVs). A therapeutic HPV vaccine would have widespread applicability because HPV-associated lesions are difficult to treat and may progress to carcinoma. We developed three attenuated VSV recombinants expressing the cottontail rabbit papillomavirus (CRPV) early protein E6 for use as vaccines. In cultured cells, two vectors expressed different levels of the E6 protein, and one expressed a ubiquitin-E6 fusion protein. All three were tested for therapeutic efficacy in the cottontail rabbit papillomavirus (CRPV)-rabbit model. Mock vaccination had no effect on papilloma growth. In contrast, inoculation with any of the VSV-E6 vaccines reduced the rate of papilloma growth to as little as 24% the rate in the controls. In five experiments, these effects were achieved after a single immunization. Furthermore, complete papilloma regression occurred in some rabbits observed for 4 months. A VSV-based papillomavirus E6 vaccine could have significant advantages over other therapeutic HPV vaccine candidates described to date.
Overproduction of double-stranded RNA in vesicular stomatitis virus-infected cells activates a constitutive cell-type-specific antiviral response.	In a companion paper (D. Ostertag, T. M. Hoblitzell-Ostertag, and J. Perrault, J. Virol. 81:492-502, 2007), we provided indirect evidence that cell-type-specific growth restriction of the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) polR mutants may be due to enhanced production of double-stranded RNA (dsRNA). We show here that polR growth in mouse L-929 cells was rescued by vaccinia virus coinfection and that sole expression of the vaccinia virus dsRNA-binding E3L protein, via coinfection with an engineered VSV minigenome, also restored polR growth. Expression of dsRNA-binding protein NS1A or NS1B from influenza virus, but not C protein from Sendai virus, which does not bind dsRNA, likewise effected polR rescue. The N-terminal dsRNA-binding domain of NS1A, only 73 amino acids in length, but not a full-size mutant NS1A lacking dsRNA-binding activity, restored polR growth. Both key aspects of polR growth restriction, namely inhibition of genome replication and release of low-infectivity virus particles, were countered by expression of the dsRNA-binding proteins. We tested the effects of overproducing dsRNA in wild-type VSV infections by coinfecting cells with a VSV recombinant expressing the sense strand of the enhanced green fluorescent protein gene (VSV-GFP) and one expressing the antisense strand (VSV-PFG). These coinfections mimicked all aspects of polR restriction, including host range, lack of effect on transcription, reduced virus particle infectivity, and insensitivity to inhibition of host gene transcription or dsRNA-activated protein kinase activity. We conclude that, for some cell types, overproduction of dsRNA during VSV infection triggers an immediate and constitutive host cell antiviral effector response independent of interferon induction or signaling.
PtK1 cells contain a nondiffusible, dominant factor that makes the Golgi apparatus resistant to brefeldin A.	Brefeldin A (BFA) was shown in earlier studies of numerous cell types to inhibit secretion, induce enzymes of the Golgi stacks to redistribute into the ER, and to cause the Golgi cisternae to disappear. Here, we demonstrate that the PtK1 line of rat kangaroo kidney cells is resistant to BFA. The drug did not disrupt the morphology of the Golgi complex in PtK1 cells, as judged by immunofluorescence using antibodies to 58- (58K) and 110-kD (beta-COP) Golgi proteins, and by fluorescence microscopy of live cells labeled with C6-NBD-ceramide. In addition, BFA did not inhibit protein secretion, not alter the kinetics or extent of glycosylation of the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) glycoprotein (G-protein) in VSV-infected PtK1 cells. To explore the mechanism of resistance to BFA, PtK1 cells were fused with BFA-sensitive CV-1 cells that had been infected with a recombinant SV-40 strain containing the gene for VSV G-protein and, at various times following fusion, the cultures were exposed to BFA. Shortly after cell fusion, heterokaryons contained one Golgi complex associated with each nucleus. Golgi membranes derived from CV-1 cells were sensitive to BFA, whereas those of PtK1 origin were BFA resistant. A few hours after fusion, most heterokaryons contained a single, large Golgi apparatus that was resistant to BFA and contained CV-1 galactosyltransferase. In unfused cells that had been perforated using nitrocellulose filters, retention of beta-COP on the Golgi was optimal in the presence of cytosol, ATP, and GTP. In perforated cell models of the BFA-sensitive MA104 line, BFA caused beta-COP to be released from the Golgi complex in the presence of nucleotides, and either MA104 or PtK1 cytosol. In contrast, when perforated PtK1 cells were incubated with BFA, nucleotides, and cytosol from either cell type, beta-COP remained bound to the Golgi complex. We conclude that PtK1 cells contain a nondiffusible factor, which is located on or very close to the Golgi complex, and confers a dominant resistance to BFA. It is possible that this factor is homologous to the target of BFA in cells that are sensitive to the drug.
Expression of the surface glycoprotein E2 of Bovine viral diarrhea virus by recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus.	This study analysed the transport behaviour of the glycoprotein E2 of Bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) expressed from recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus (rVSV). E2 protein was found to be retained at an intracellular compartment. A chimeric protein containing the membrane anchor and cytoplasmic tail of the VSV G protein, E2-G(MT), was transported to the cell surface. Only the latter protein was incorporated into rVSV particles in significant amounts. A soluble form of E2 lacking the membrane anchor, E2(MTdel), appeared to be affected in conformational stability. In contrast to both membrane-anchored forms of E2, expression of the soluble form was detectable only by immunofluorescence microscopy but not by Western blotting. These results are in agreement with reports of intracellular retention of the E2 protein due to a retention signal in the membrane anchor. However, in another analysis of E2 expressed from rVSV, E2 protein was reported to be transported to the cell surface and incorporated into VSV particles [Grigera, P. R., Marzocca, M. P., Capozzo, A. V. E., Buonocore, L., Donis, R. O. & Rose, J. K. (2000). Virus Res 69, 3-15]. Reasons for these contradictory results are discussed.
Species differences in transgene DNA uptake in hepatocytes after adenoviral transfer correlate with the size of endothelial fenestrae.	Sinusoidal fenestrae may restrict the transport of gene transfer vectors according to their size. Using Vitrobot technology and cryo-electron microscopy, we show that the diameter of human adenoviral serotype 5 vectors is 93 nm with protruding fibers of 30 nm. Thus, a diameter of fenestrae of 150 nm or more is likely to be sufficient for passage of vectors from the sinusoidal lumen to the space of Disse and subsequent uptake of vectors in hepatocytes. The average diameter of fenestrae in New Zealand White rabbits (103+/-1.3 nm) was 1.4-fold (P<0.0001) lower than in C57BL/6 mice (141+/-5.4 nm). The percentage of sinusoidal fenestrae with a diameter larger than 150 nm was 10-fold (P<0.01) lower in rabbits (3.2+/-0.24%) than in C57BL/6 mice (32+/-5%), and this resulted in 8.8-fold (P=0.01) lower transgene DNA levels in hepatocytes in rabbits after adenoviral transfer. Injection of N-acetylcysteine combined with transient liver ischemia preceding intraportal transfer in rabbits increased the percentage of sinusoidal fenestrae above 150 nm 2.0-fold (P<0.001) and increased transgene DNA levels in hepatocytes 6.6-fold (P<0.05). In conclusion, species differences in transgene DNA uptake in hepatocytes after adenoviral transfer correlate with the diameter of fenestrae.
Factors that influence VSV-G pseudotyping and transduction efficiency of lentiviral vectors-in vitro and in vivo implications.	Pseudotyping viral vectors with vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein (VSV-G) enables the transduction of an extensive range of cell types from different species. We have discovered two important parameters of the VSV-G-pseudotyping phenomenon that relate directly to the transduction potential of lentiviral vectors: (1) the glycosylation status of VSV-G, and (2) the quantity of glycoprotein associated with virions. We measured production-cell and virion-associated quantities of two isoform variants of VSV-G, which differ in their glycosylation status, VSV-G1 and VSV-G2, and assessed the impact of this difference on the efficiency of mammalian cell transduction by lentiviral vectors. The glycosylation of VSV-G at N336 allowed greater maximal expression of VSV-G in HEK293T cells, thus facilitating vector pseudotyping. The transduction of primate cell lines was substantially affected (up to 50-fold) by the degree of VSV-G1 or VSV-G2 incorporation, whereas other cell lines, such as D17 (canine), were less sensitive to virion-associated VSV-G1/2 quantities. These data indicate that the minimum required concentration of virion-associated VSV-G differs substantially between cell species/types. The implications of these data with regard to VSV-G-pseudotyped vector production, titration, and use in host-cell restriction studies, are discussed.
Use of a lentivirus/VSV pseudotype virus for highly efficient genetic redirection of human peripheral blood lymphocytes.	Genetic redirection of lymphocytes that have been engineered to recognize antigens other than those originally programmed by their rearranged germlines is a potentially powerful immunotherapeutic tool. The rationale for the protocol described here is that many cancers and persistent or latent viruses have developed strikingly similar mechanisms of evading attack by host immunity that can often be overcome by redirection of host lymphocytes using chimeric T-cell receptor (chTCR) genes. However, for human peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs), this is generally regarded as a technically demanding procedure with unacceptably low efficiency using either contemporary transfection methods or retroviral transduction. One of the main difficulties with retroviruses is their reliance on rapidly dividing cells for integration of their genomes carrying the desired chTCR. Here we describe a highly efficient protocol that uses a lentivirus/vesicular stomatitis virus pseudotyped virus to engineer CD3/CD28-stimulated human peripheral blood cells (i.e., primarily T cells), with near 100% efficiency.
Fusogenic vesicular stomatitis virus for the treatment of head and neck squamous carcinomas.	This study investigates the efficacy of recombinant fusogenic VSV [rVSV-NDV/F(L289A) or rVSV-F] in the treatment of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC).
Pseudotype formation of murine leukemia virus with the G protein of vesicular stomatitis virus.	Mixed infection of a cell by vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) and retroviruses results in the production of progeny virions bearing the genome of one virus encapsidated by the envelope proteins of the other. The mechanism for the phenomenon of pseudotype formation is not clear, although specific recognition of a viral envelope protein by the nucleocapsid of an unrelated virus is presumably involved. In this study, we used Moloney murine leukemia virus (MoMLV)-based retroviral vectors encoding the gene for neomycin phosphotransferase to investigate the interaction between the VSV G protein and the retroviral nucleocapsid during the formation of MoMLV(VSV) pseudotypes. Our results show that VSV G protein can be incorporated into the virions of retrovirus in the absence of other VSV-encoded proteins or of retroviral envelope protein. Infection of hamster cells by MoMLV(VSV) pseudotypes gave rise to neomycin phosphotransferase-resistant colonies, and addition of anti-VSV serum to the virus preparations completely abolished the infectivity of MoMLV(VSV) pseudotypes. It should be possible to use existing mutants of VSV G protein in the system described here to identify the signals that are important for the formation of MoMLV(VSV) pseudotypes.
Cells that express all five proteins of vesicular stomatitis virus from cloned cDNAs support replication, assembly, and budding of defective interfering particles.	An alternative approach to structure-function analysis of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) gene products and their interactions with one another during each phase of the viral life cycle is described. We showed previously by using the vaccinia virus-T7 RNA polymerase expression system that when cells expressing the nucleocapsid protein (N), the phosphoprotein (NS), and the large polymerase protein (L) of VSV were superinfected with defective interfering (DI) particles, rapid and efficient replication and amplification of (DI) particle RNA occurred. Here, we demonstrate that all five VSV proteins can be expressed simultaneously when cells are contransfected with plasmids containing the matrix protein (M) gene and the glycoprotein (G) gene of VSV in addition to plasmids containing the genes for the N, NS, and L proteins. When cells coexpressing all five VSV proteins were superinfected with DI particles, which because of their defectiveness are unable to express any viral proteins or to replicate, DI particle replication, assembly, and budding were observed and infectious DI particles were released into the culture fluids. Omission of either the M or G protein expression resulted in no DI particle budding. The vector-supported DI particles were similar in size and morphology to the authentic DI particles generated from cells coinfected with DI particles and helper VSV and their infectivity could be blocked by anti-VSV or anti-G antiserum. The successful replication, assembly, and budding of DI particles from cells expressing all five VSV proteins from cloned cDNAs provide a powerful approach for detailed structure-function analysis of the VSV gene products in each step of the replicative cycle of the virus.
Sequence of the major nucleocapsid protein gene of pneumonia virus of mice: sequence comparisons suggest structural homology between nucleocapsid proteins of pneumoviruses, paramyxoviruses, rhabdoviruses and filoviruses.	The complete nucleotide sequence of gene 3 of pneumonia virus of mice has been determined, and the 5' end of the mRNA mapped using a modification of the polymerase chain reaction technique. The gene contains a single open reading frame, beginning with a 5'-proximal AUG initiation codon, encoding a polypeptide with a predicted Mr of 43141. Expression of the gene 3 protein in Escherichia coli and in vitro showed that it reacted with virus-specific antiserum and comigrated with the major nucleocapsid (N) polypeptide. The predicted amino acid sequence has extensive identity with that of the N protein of human respiratory syncytial virus. Comparisons with the amino acid sequences of N proteins of other paramyxoviruses, vesicular stomatitis virus and Ebola virus suggest that these proteins may have retained much of the same structure. These regions of conserved structure would most likely have the common functions of RNA binding and protein/protein interactions in the virus nucleocapsid.
Requirement of GTP hydrolysis for dissociation of the signal recognition particle from its receptor.	The signal recognition particle (SRP) directs signal sequence specific targeting of ribosomes to the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Displacement of the SRP from the signal sequence of a nascent polypeptide is a guanosine triphosphate (GTP)-dependent reaction mediated by the membrane-bound SRP receptor. A nonhydrolyzable GTP analog can replace GTP in the signal sequence displacement reaction, but the SRP then fails to dissociate from the membrane. Complexes of the SRP with its receptor containing the nonhydrolyzable analog are incompetent for subsequent rounds of protein translocation. Thus, vectorial targeting of ribosomes to the endoplasmic reticulum is controlled by a GTP hydrolysis cycle that regulates the affinity between the SRP, signal sequences, and the SRP receptor.
A lentiviral vector pseudotype suitable for vaccine development.	Lentiviral vectors (LV) are promising vaccines because they transduce dendritic cells (DC) in vivo. To translate LV vaccines into clinical trials, bulk production will be necessary. The present study aimed to find a suitable envelope for LV vaccine production from stable packaging cells because the commonly used vesicular stomatitis virus envelope (VSV-G) is cytotoxic.
Conserved eukaryotic fusogens can fuse viral envelopes to cells.	Caenorhabditis elegans proteins AFF-1 and EFF-1 [C. elegans fusion family (CeFF) proteins] are essential for developmental cell-to-cell fusion and can merge insect cells. To study the structure and function of AFF-1, we constructed vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) displaying AFF-1 on the viral envelope, substituting the native fusogen VSV glycoprotein. Electron microscopy and tomography revealed that AFF-1 formed distinct supercomplexes resembling pentameric and hexameric "flowers" on pseudoviruses. Viruses carrying AFF-1 infected mammalian cells only when CeFFs were on the target cell surface. Furthermore, we identified fusion family (FF) proteins within and beyond nematodes, and divergent members from the human parasitic nematode Trichinella spiralis and the chordate Branchiostoma floridae could also fuse mammalian cells. Thus, FF proteins are part of an ancient family of cellular fusogens that can promote fusion when expressed on a viral particle.
A rapid neutralization test for antibodies to bovine leukemia virus, with the use of rhabdovirus pseudotypes.	Two rhabdoviruses, vesicular stomatitis (type Indiana) and Chandipura viruses, formed pseudotype particles with envelope antigens provided by bovine leukemia virus (BLV). The pseudotypes are infectious for calf, human, mink, and rat cells, but the most sensitive indicator proved to be the Vero cells. Infectivity of the pseudotypes was increased by DEAE-dextran present during adsorption. Sera of spontaneously infected cattle contained high titers (some over 1/10,000) of antibodies neutralizing the pseudotypes, whereas sera of cattle from uninfected herds possessed no neutralizing activity in 1/10 dilution. The neutralization of these pseudotypes can serve as a rapid and sensitive test for the detection of antibodies in the cattle infected with BLV.
Pseudotypes of vesicular stomatitis virus and Pichinde virus.	Super-infection of Pichinde virus-infected cells with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) resulted in the production of pseudotype virus which was not neutralized by antiserum to VSV but which was neutralized by antiserum to Pichinde virus. Analysis of pseudotype virus production in relation to the kinetics of replication of Pichinde virus demonstrated that pseudotype virus production occurred when super-infection with VSV was initiated 8 h or more after infecting the cells with Pichinde virus. The quantities of pseudotype virus produced correlated with the quantities of Pichinde virus antigen detected on the surface of the cells both during acute infection and in cells chronically infected with Pichinde virus. The observations indicate that pseudotype of VSV and Pichinde virus are readily formed and that the formation of pseudotype virus may be used to examine the Pichinde virus antigens expressed on the surface of infected cells.
A recombinant vesicular stomatitis virus bearing a lethal mutation in the glycoprotein gene uncovers a second site suppressor that restores fusion.	Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), a prototype of the Rhabdoviridae family, contains a single surface glycoprotein (G) that is responsible for attachment to cells and mediates membrane fusion. Working with the Indiana serotype of VSV, we employed a reverse genetic approach to produce fully authentic recombinant viral particles bearing lethal mutations in the G gene. By altering the hydrophobicity of the two fusion loops within G, we produced a panel of mutants, W72A, Y73A, Y116A, and A117F, that were nonfusogenic. Propagation of viruses bearing those lethal mutations in G completely depended on complementation by expression of the glycoprotein from the heterologous New Jersey serotype of VSV. The nonfusogenic G proteins oligomerize and are transported normally to the cell surface but fail to mediate acid pH-triggered membrane fusion. The nonfusogenic G proteins also interfered with the ability of wild-type G to mediate fusion, either by formation of mixed trimers or by inhibition of trimer function during fusion. Passage of one recombinant virus, A117F, identified a second site suppressor of the fusion block, E76K. When analyzed in the absence of the A117F substitution, E76K rendered G more sensitive to acid pH-triggered fusion, suggesting that this compensatory mutation is destabilizing. Our work provides a set of authentic recombinant VSV particles bearing lethal mutations in G, confirms that the hydrophobic fusion loops of VSV G protein are critical for membrane fusion, and underscores the importance of the sequence elements surrounding the hydrophobic tips of the fusion loops in driving fusion. This study has implications for understanding dominant targets for inhibition of G-mediated fusion. Moreover, the recombinant viral particles generated here will likely be useful in dissecting the mechanism of G-catalyzed fusion as well as study steps of viral assembly.
Potent systemic therapy of multiple myeloma utilizing oncolytic vesicular stomatitis virus coding for interferon-β.	Multiple myeloma (MM) is an incurable malignancy of plasma secreting B cells disseminated in the bone marrow. Successful utilization of oncolytic virotherapy for myeloma treatment requires a systemically administered virus that selectively destroys disseminated myeloma cells in an immune-competent host. Vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV)-expressing interferon-β (IFNβ) is a promising new oncolytic agent that exploits tumor-associated defects in innate immune signaling pathways to destroy cancer cells specifically. We demonstrate here that a single, intravenous dose of VSV coding for IFNβ (VSV-IFNβ) specifically destroys subcutaneous and disseminated 5TGM1 myeloma in an immune-competent myeloma model. VSV-IFN treatment significantly prolonged survival in mice bearing orthotopic myeloma. Viral murine IFNβ expression further delayed myeloma progression and significantly enhanced survival compared with VSV-expressing human IFNβ. Evaluation of VSV-IFNβ oncolytic activity in human myeloma cell lines and primary patient samples confirmed myeloma-specific oncolytic activity, but revealed variable susceptibility to VSV-IFNβ oncolysis. The results indicate that VSV-IFNβ is a potent, safe oncolytic agent that can be systemically administered to target and destroy disseminated myeloma effectively in immune-competent mice. IFNβ expression improves cancer specificity and enhances VSV therapeutic efficacy against disseminated myeloma. These data show VSV-IFNβ to be a promising vector for further development as a potential therapy for the treatment of MM.
Functional cloning of recurrence-specific antigens identifies molecular targets to treat tumor relapse.	Aggressive regrowth of recurrent tumors following treatment-induced dormancy represents a major clinical challenge for treatment of malignant disease. We reported previously that recurrent prostate tumors, which underwent complete macroscopic regression followed by aggressive regrowth, could be cured with a vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV)-expressed cDNA library derived from recurrent tumor cells. By screening the protective, recurrence-derived VSV-cDNA library, here we identify topoisomerase-IIα (TOPO-IIα) as a recurrence-specific tumor antigen against which tolerance can be broken. Tumor recurrences, in two different types of tumor (prostate and melanoma), which had evaded two different frontline treatments (immunotherapy or chemotherapy), significantly overexpressed TOPO-IIα compared with their primary tumor counterparts, which conferred a novel sensitivity to doxorubicin (DOX) chemotherapy upon the recurrent tumors. This was exploited in vivo using combination therapies to cure mice, which would otherwise have relapsed, after suboptimal primary therapy in both models. Our data show that recurrent tumors-across histologies and primary treatments-express distinct antigens compared with the primary tumor which can be identified using the VSV-cDNA library technology. These results suggest that it may be possible to design a few common second-line therapies against a variety of tumor recurrences, in some cases using agents with no obvious activity against the primary tumor. 
Differential effect of ATP concentration on synthesis of vesicular stomatitis virus leader RNAs and mRNAs.	Cleavage of the beta-gamma bond of ATP is required for wild-type (wt) vesicular stomatitis virus transcription in vitro. Recent findings have established that a domain-specific phosphorylation of the virus NS protein is necessary for activity. We report here that RNA synthesis catalyzed by purified standard wt virions responded cooperatively to various ATP concentrations, with half-maximal activity at approximately 500 microM. In contrast, mutant polR1 standard virions and wt defective interfering particles both showed conventional Michaelis-Menten kinetic profiles with Km values of approximately 143 and approximately 133 microM, respectively. The former synthesize readthrough products of the leader-N gene junction in addition to plus-strand leader RNA and mRNAs, whereas the latter synthesize only minus-strand leader RNA. The cooperative response of wt virus products, however, was specific to mRNAs; the small fraction of the total products corresponding to plus-strand leader approximated Michaelis-Menten behavior. Since the unique phenotype of the polR mutants correlates with the synthesis of replicationlike products in vitro, the affected ATP-requiring function most likely regulates both transcription and replication. We suggest that this mutated function involves phosphorylation of viral proteins.
Inhibitory effects of vesicular stomatitis virus on cellular and influenza viral RNA metabolism and protein synthesis.	Infection with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) results in the rapid inhibition of cellular macromolecular synthesis, including transcription, translation, and maturation of the U1 and U2 snRNPs. Unlike infection with VSV, influenza virus infection did not result in the inhibition of either the processing of U1 and U2 snRNAs or the assembly of the RNPs. Although influenza virus relies on the cellular splicing apparatus to generate viral mRNAs, the maturation of snRNPs was inhibited during double infections with VSV. However, this inhibition of snRNP maturation had no effect on the splicing of a cellular pre mRNA in extracts prepared from VSV-infected HeLa cells. Thus, the effects of VSV on the processing and assembly of snRNPs appear to involve virus-specific functions and unique cellular targets. Coinfection with VSV and influenza virus resulted in the dramatic inhibition of influenza virus transcription; polyadenylated mRNAs corresponding to the influenza virus NP and NS1 proteins could not be detected by Northern blot analysis. However, reduced levels of the influenza virus replicative templates were still synthesized during double infection. Coinfection with VSV also resulted in the inhibition of influenza viral mRNA translation, even when superinfection with VSV was delayed until 3 or 6 hr after influenza virus infection. VSV required at least 2 hr to affect the inhibition of translation; this corresponded to the time after VSV infection when inhibition of cellular protein synthesis was evident. These results demonstrate that, in contrast to adenovirus, the VSV-mediated inhibition of cellular macromolecular synthesis may be effective against influenza virus.
Replication of the genome RNAs of defective interfering particles of vesicular stomatitis and Sendai viruses using heterologous viral proteins.	We have tested the ability of heterologous viral proteins to support the in vivo and in vitro replication of the RNA of defective interfering (DI) particles of two serotypes of VSV and of Sendai virus. In all the combinations of heterologous coinfections in vivo, DI particle replication was observed only in the coinfection with the VSV-Indiana DI particle and wild-type VSV-New Jersey. By quantitating RNA synthesis in reconstitution experiments we showed that with DI nucleocapsids isolated from infected cells, however, the soluble protein fraction from heterologous wild-type virus-infected cells could substitute in vitro to varying degrees for the homologous proteins in the elongation reaction of RNA replication and encapsidation. In these cases successful replication was confirmed by demonstrating the specific association of the heterologous N protein with the product nucleocapsid RNA. The initiation step, that is, the initial binding of the nucleocapsid protein to the leader RNA, in contrast, requires the homologous protein, since heterologous viral proteins could not support RNA replication and encapsidation from purified DI particles.
Basolateral expression of a chimeric protein in which the transmembrane and cytoplasmic domains of vesicular stomatitis virus G protein have been replaced by those of the influenza virus hemagglutinin.	Two integral membrane proteins, influenza virus hemagglutinin (HA) and vesicular stomatitis virus G protein, are transported to and accumulated on the apical and basolateral surfaces, respectively, of the plasma membrane of polarized epithelial cells. We have used chimeric constructions to identify the domains of HA and G proteins which contain the signals for polarized transport. Previously, we have shown that a chimeric protein containing the cleavable leader and the ectodomain of HA fused to the anchoring and cytoplasmic domains of G is transported to the apical surface of polarized MDCK cells (McQueen, N.L., Nayak, D.P., Stephens, E.B., and Compans, R.W. (1986) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 83, 9318-9322). In this report we show that a chimera containing the cleavable leader and ectodomain of G fused to the anchoring and cytoplasmic domains of HA is transported to the basolateral surface of polarized cells. Another chimera which contains the leader sequence of G fused to leader minus HA is transported to the apical surface of polarized cells. These results taken together suggest that the signals for the polarized transport of HA and G proteins may reside in their ectodomains.
Role for adenosine triphosphate in regulating the assembly and transport of vesicular stomatitis virus G protein trimers.	We have characterized the process by which the vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) G protein acquires its final oligomeric structure using density-gradient centrifugation in mildly acidic sucrose gradients. The mature wild-type VSV G protein is a noncovalently associated trimer. Trimers are assembled from newly synthesized G monomers with a t1/2 of 6-8 min. To localize the site of trimerization and to correlate trimer formation with steps in transport between the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and Golgi complex, we examined the kinetics of assembly of the temperature-sensitive mutant VSV strain, ts045. At the nonpermissive temperature (39 degrees C), ts045 G protein is not transported from the ER. The phenotypic defect that inhibited export from the ER at the nonpermissive temperature was found to be the accumulation of ts045 G protein in an aggregate. After being shifted to the permissive temperature (32 degrees C), the ts045 G protein aggregate rapidly dissociated (t1/2 less than 1 min) to monomeric G protein which subsequently trimerized with the same kinetics as the wild-type G protein. Only trimers were transported to the Golgi complex. Kinetic studies, as well as the finding that trimerization occurred under conditions which block ER to Golgi transport (at both 15 and 4 degrees C), showed that trimers were formed in the ER. Depletion of cellular ATP inhibited both the dissociation of the aggregated intermediate of ts045 G protein as well as the formation of stable trimers. The results indicate that oligomerization of G protein occurs in several steps, is sensitive to cellular ATP, and is required for transport from the ER.
Viral products in cells infected with vesicular stomatitis virus and superinfected with Rous sarcoma virus.	In cells infected with Vesicular Stomatitis virus (VSV) ts 1026 and superinfected with Rous Sarcoma virus (RSV) synthesis of vsrc mRNA and RSV env mRNA decreases. In these cells post-translational processing of RSV precursor proteins is impaired and small amounts of VSV antigens are detected.
Differential effects of mutations in three domains on folding, quaternary structure, and intracellular transport of vesicular stomatitis virus G protein.	The vesicular stomatitis virus glycoprotein (G protein) is an integral membrane protein which assembles into noncovalently associated trimers before transport from the endoplasmic reticulum. In this study we have examined the folding and oligomeric assembly of twelve mutant G proteins with alterations in the cytoplasmic, transmembrane, or ectodomains. Through the use of conformation-specific antibodies, we found that newly synthesized G protein folded into a conformation similar to the mature form within 1-3 min of synthesis and before trimer formation. Mutant proteins not capable of undergoing correct initial folding did not trimerize, were not transported, and were found in large aggregates. They had, as a rule, mutations in the ectodomain, including several with altered glycosylation patterns. In contrast, mutations in the cytoplasmic domain generally had little effect on folding and trimerization. These mutant proteins, whose ectodomains were identical to the wild-type by several assays, were either transported to the cell surface slowly or not at all. We concluded that while correct ectodomain folding and trimer formation are prerequisites for transport, they alone are not sufficient. The results suggest that the cytoplasmic domain of the wild-type protein may facilitate rapid, efficient transport from the ER, which can be easily affected or eliminated by tail mutations that do not detectably affect the ectodomain.
Antigenicity, function, and conformation of synthetic oligopeptides corresponding to amino-terminal sequences of wild-type and mutant matrix proteins of vesicular stomatitis virus.	The matrix (M) protein of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) has a major antigenic determinant (epitope 1) that maps to a region extending from amino acids 19 through 43 and transcription-inhibition activity that maps to the first 43 N-terminal amino acids (J.R. Ogden, R. Pal, and R. R. Wagner, J. Virol. 58:860-868, 1986). The M protein of temperature-sensitive mutant tsO23(III) is devoid of epitope 1 and transcription-inhibition activity and substitutes glutamic acid for glycine at amino acid 21 as well as having amino acid substitutions at positions 111 and 227 (K. Morita, R. Vanderoef, and J. Lenard, J. Virol. 61:256-263, 1987). We undertook to map more precisely epitope 1 and the transcription-inhibition region of VSV M protein by means of synthetic oligopeptides generated by an automated solid-phase protein synthesizer. A pentadecapeptide designated PI(wt, Gly21), corresponding to amino acids 17 to 31 of wild-type (wt) M protein, strongly bound monoclonal antibody MAb2 (directed to epitope 1); however, an analogous pentadecapeptide with glutamic acid substituted for glycine at position 21, designated PII(tsO23, Glu21), completely failed to recognize MAb2. Polyclonal antibody raised in rabbits immunized with PI(wt, Gly21) reacted strongly with wt M protein, the homologous pentadecapeptide, and, to a lesser extent, PII(tsO23, Glu21). Anti-PII(tsO23, Glu21) failed to recognize PI(wt, Gly21) or wt M protein. Anti-PI(wt, Gly21) competed efficiently for binding of MAb2 to wt M protein and was as effective as MAb2 in reversing inhibition of VSV transcription by wt M protein. Neither PI(wt, Gly21) nor PII(tsO23, Glu21) exhibited any ability to inhibit VSV transcription. However, a lysine-rich oligopeptide, PII(Met1-Leu20), corresponding to the first 20 N-terminal amino acids of wt M protein, and polylysine itself did inhibit VSV transcription, albeit much less efficiently than native wt M protein. Monospecific polyclonal antibody directed to the 20-mer oligopeptide PIII(Met1-Leu20) reversed transcription inhibition by M protein in a dose-dependent manner almost identical to that of anti-PI(wt, Gly21) and epitope 1-specific MAb2. Examination by circular dichroism spectropolarimetry revealed significant differences in the conformation of the two pentadecapeptides attributable to the Gly in equilibrium Glu amino acid substitution at position 21.
Complex formation with vesicular stomatitis virus phosphoprotein NS prevents binding of nucleocapsid protein N to nonspecific RNA.	The interactions between the nucleocapsid protein N and either RNA or the phosphoprotein NS of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) were studied by the transcription of N and NS mRNAs from SP6 vectors, followed by translation in a rabbit reticulocyte lysate. Nascent N protein bound tightly to added labeled RNA, as well as to endogenous RNA in the reticulocyte lysate. This binding was demonstrated by three independent techniques. First, labeled N protein and labeled RNA migrated identically as a series of sharp, closely spaced bands in a nondenaturing gel system. Second, translated N protein behaved as a stable ribonucleoprotein complex in CsCl gradients and sedimented to the same density as the authentic N-RNA template of VSV. Third, translated N protein protected a series of labeled RNA fragments from digestion by RNase A. None of the three RNA-binding criteria was satisfied by either translated NS protein or two deletion mutants of N protein or by other components of the reticulocyte lysate. The evidence suggests that the observed binding of RNA by nascent N was not RNA sequence specific, in contrast to the encapsidation process during VSV replication. Moreover, the prior formation of N-NS complexes totally abolished the observed binding of RNA by N. Thus, we propose that NS may be responsible for conferring the sequence specificity of the RNA binding that occurs during VSV genome replication.
The budding mechanism of spikeless vesicular stomatitis virus particles.	Virus particles, lacking the spike G-glycoproteins, are produced during infection of Vero cells with the vesicular stomatitis virus mutant ts045 at the restrictive temperature 39.5 degrees C. At this temperature the mutated G proteins are blocked in their intracellular transport in the endoplasmic reticulum. We have studied the role of the G proteins in the formation of these spikeless virus particles. The results showed that the spikeless particles contain a full complement of membrane anchors, derived from the carboxy-terminal end of the G protein. Our observations suggest that virus particles are formed at the restrictive temperature with G protein which is later cleaved to produce spikeless particles. We suggest that this is due to a leak of G protein to the cell surface at 39.5 degrees C where budding then takes place, presumably driven by a G protein C-terminal tail--nucleocapsid interaction.
Replacement of the cytoplasmic domain alters sorting of a viral glycoprotein in polarized cells.	The envelope glycoprotein (G protein) of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) is transported to the basolateral plasma membrane of polarized epithelial cells, whereas the hemagglutinin glycoprotein (HA protein) of influenza virus is transported to the apical plasma membrane. To determine if the cytoplasmic domain of VSV G protein might be important in directing G protein to the basolateral membrane, we derived polarized Madin-Darby canine kidney cell lines expressing G protein or G protein with its normal cytoplasmic domain replaced with the cytoplasmic domain from an influenza HA protein (GHA protein). Indirect immunofluorescence microscopy showed that G protein was present primarily on basolateral surfaces, whereas the GHA protein was present on the apical and basolateral membranes. These results suggest that the cytoplasmic domain can be an important determinant directing polarized expression of an integral membrane protein.
Regional assignment of five genes on human chromosome 19.	A human-mouse hybrid segregant HM76Dd40-6 with new characteristics was derived from the hybrid cell line HM76Dd containing human chromosome 19 as the only human chromosome. Three virus sensitivities located on human chromosome 19 (PVS, E11S and RDRC) were lost in HM76Dd40-6, while six other genes (C3, LDLR, EF2, GPI, PEPD and MANB) were retained. Cytogenetic analysis and in situ hybridization using human or mouse repeated sequences as probes showed that the region q13.1-qter of human chromosome 19 had been replaced by a fragment of mouse chromosome. Our results permit further regional assignment for the following five genes on human chromosome 19: GPI in the region cen-q12, MANB in p13.2-q12, E11S and RDRC in q13.1-qter, and EF2 in pter-q12.
Nonpolarized secretion of truncated forms of the influenza hemagglutinin and the vesicular stomatitus virus G protein from MDCK cells.	The demonstration that the envelope glycoproteins G of vesicular stomatitus virus and hemagglutinin of influenza virus synthesized in polarized epithelial cells transfected with the corresponding genes are effectively segregated to the basolateral or apical plasma membrane domains, respectively, implies that the information determining this segregation resides within the structures of the proteins themselves. To localize the sorting information within these proteins, the polarity of secretion of truncated hemagglutinin and G glycoproteins secreted from confluent monolayers of MDCK cells transformed with vectors containing the corresponding truncated cDNAs was examined. It was found that, even though the transformed cells continued to secrete a major endogenous glycoprotein exclusively from the apical surface, the modified viral glycoproteins were secreted in a nonpolarized fashion from both sides of the monolayers. These observations suggest that important information for the sorting of the viral glycoprotein is contained within their membrane anchoring or cytoplasmic segments or that, if sorting signals are luminally located, these signals must be present in a conformation that is not attainable when the polypeptides are not attached to the membrane.
Dominance of temperature-sensitive phenotypes. II. Vesicular stomatitis virus mutants from a persistent infection interfere with shut-off of host protein synthesis by wild-type virus.	The dominance of a mutant (VSV-PI) isolated from a long-term persistent infection over wild-type vesicular stomatitis virus (wt-VSV) is reported. This dominance has some important differences from and similarities to the dominance of conventional ts mutants studied previously (J. S. Youngner, D. W. Frielle, and P. Whitaker-Dowling, 1986, Virology 155, 225-235). Unlike the ts mutants representing complementation groups I and IV, coinfection with VSV-PI does not reduce the yield of infectious wt-VSV at either the permissive (37 degrees) or nonpermissive (39.5 degrees) temperatures. However, in double infections with wt-VSV and VSV-PI at 37 degrees, viral RNA synthesis patterns were converted to those of the RNA synthesis phenotype of VSV-PI: reduced mRNA transcription and enhanced replication of genomic RNA. In addition, VSV-PI which shuts off host protein synthesis very inefficiently was able to interfere in double infections with the ability of wt-VSV to rapidly shut off host protein synthesis. This finding suggests that the mutant virus is not just missing the factor(s) responsible for the inhibition of host protein synthesis but has a dominant activity which works in trans to interfere with the shut-off function of wt-VSV. Ultraviolet irradiation of VSV-PI was used to determine the target size of the interference function. The calculated value for the uv target size is equal to that of the viral genome. This suggests that either viral replication or the expression of the last gene on the viral genome (encoding the L protein) is required for interference by VSV-PI with the shut-off of host cell protein synthesis by wt-VSV.
Site on the vesicular stomatitis virus genome specifying polyadenylation and the end of the L gene mRNA.	The 5'-terminal nucleotide sequence from positions 50 to 130 of vesicular stomatitis virus RNA was determined indirectly by using a defective interfering particle RNA which contains covalently linked genomic minus and antigenomic plus sense RNAs. The last 18 nucleotides of the L gene coding for in the viral polymerase were identified and isolated by specific duplex formation between 5' terminally labeled oligonucleotides from a small single-stranded defective interfering particle RNA and L gene mRNA. The L gene ends at position 60 from the 5' terminus of the vesicular stomatitis genome. The data demonstrated that the first seven adenine residues in the polyadenylic acid tail of L gene mRNA may be coded for in the genome and suggested that the viral transcriptase itself may carry out polyadenylation, possibly by chattering at the uridine-rich sequence at the end of the L gene. Analysis of the 5'-terminal sequence of vesicular stomatitis virus genomic RNA revealed that it might fold into a complex secondary structure with possibly 62% of the bases paired.
Localized attenuation and discontinuous synthesis during vesicular stomatitis virus transcription.	We have analyzed the process of partial transcription termination (attenuation), which results in nonequimolar synthesis of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) mRNAs during sequential transcription. Comparison of the level of transcription of defined regions of the VSV genome by DNA-RNA hybridization shows that attenuation occurs at or near the intergenic regions, rather than nonspecifically throughout the genome. Transcription decreases 29-33% across the junctions of the N-NS, NS-M and M-G genes, resulting in a cumulative effect on gene expression. This is the first example of a site-specific attenuation mechanism in a eucaryotic system. Analysis of the kinetics of transcription in vitro shows that transcription appears to be discontinuous, with significant pauses (2.5-5.7 min) occurring at or near the intergenic regions. Such pauses may occur during polyadenylation by a "slippage" mechanism at the U7 sequences present at each gene junction, or may be due to some other process, such as initiation or capping, which is slow relative to transcription.
In vitro and in vivo inhibition of primary transcription of vesicular stomatitis virus by a defective interfering particle.	A unique defective interfering (DI) particle, generated by a heat-resistant (HR) mutant of Indiana serotype vesicular stomatitis virus, was capable of inhibiting primary transcription by heterologous New Jersey serotype virions. The correlation between this phenomenon and the lowering of viral yields from doubly infected cells was investigated by the construction of chimeric DI particles containing the HR DI particle genome with a thermolabile polymerase. At the nonpermissive temperature, these DI particles were unable to self-transcribe, inhibit virion primary transcription, or reduce virion yield, but were able to be replicated. These results suggested that self-transcription of the HR DI particle genome was a prerequisite for heterotypic interference, but not for its own replication. Inhibition of virion primary transcription by HR DI ribonucleocapsids was also observed in vitro. At low HR DI to virion ribonucleocapsid ratios, the extent of inhibition was concentration dependent, whereas at high ratios, the amount of inhibition was concentration independent, approaching a limiting maximum value. A speculative mathematical model, which quantitatively accounts for these data, is presented. According to this model, the higher affinity for polymerase molecules by the HR DI ribonucleocapsids is explained in terms of dissociation events during transcription, which are more frequent in the longer virion ribonucleocapsids.
Interference among defective interfering particles of vesicular stomatitis virus.	Three defective interfering (DI) particles of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), all derived from the same parental standard San Juan strain (Indiana serotype), were used in various combinations to infect cells together with the parental virus. The replication of their RNA genomes in the presence of other competing genomes was described by the hierarchical sequence: DI 0.52 particles greater than DI 0.45 particles less than or equal to DI-T particles greater than standard VSV. The advantage of one DI particle over another was not due simply to multiplicity effects nor to the irreversible occupation of limited cellular sites. Interference, however, did correlate with a change in the ratio of plus and minus RNA templates that accumulated intracellularly and with the presence of new sequences at the 3' end of the DI genomes. DI 0.52 particles contained significantly more nucleotides at the 3' end that were complementary to those at the 5' end of its RNA than did DI-T or DI 0.45 particles. The first 45 nucleotides at the 3' ends of all of the DI RNAs were identical. VSV and its DI particles can be separated into three classes, depending on their terminal RNA sequences. These sequences suggest two mechanisms, one based on the affinity of polymerase binding and the other on the affinity of N-protein binding, that may account for interference by DI particles against standard VSV and among DI particles themselves.
Autoradiographic detection and characterization of a Chinese hamster ovary cell mutant deficient in fucoproteins.	Autoradiography of colony replicas immobilized on filter paper was used to isolate a Chinese hamster ovary cell line deficient in incorporation of radiolabeled fucose into a trichloroacetic acid-insoluble fraction. This cell line, called 62.1, has the same growth rate at 37 degrees C as wild-type cells, but incorporates five times less fucose into acid-insoluble radioactivity. Chemical analysis of fucose bound to macromolecules also showed a fivefold reduction in the mutant. The fucoproteins of the mutant cell line differ qualitatively from those of wild-type cells as visualized by SDS gel electrophoresis fluorography; no differences were detected between total proteins as visualized by coomassie blue staining. The macromolecular sialic acid content of the mutant was somewhat higher than the wild type (20%). Studies of the synthesis of the glycoprotein of vesicular stomatitis virus in mutant and wild-type cells showed that the mutant is unable to synthesize complex-type N-linked oligosaccharides. Enzyme assays show that ths defect in the mutant is due to reduction in UDP-N-acetylglucosamine-glycoprotein N-acetyl-glucosaminyltransferase, a key enzyme in the assembly of complex glycopeptides. Hybridization studies have shown that mutant 62.1 has common mutations belonging to the same complementation group as mutant PhaR1-1. This latter mutant was previously isolated using lectin resistance by Stanley et al. (1975) and was also deficient in the above N-acetyl-glucosaminyltransferase.
Interferon induction: regulation by both virus and cell.	Both the virus and its host cell play significant roles in the regulation of interferon (IFN) induction and production. The virus exerts a regulatory effect through variation in its capacity to deliver an IFN inducer molecule in the form of dsRNA, and by suppressing activation of the IFN gene(s) or their subsequent expression. Regulation of IFN induction by genetically closely related viruses may encompass a 10,000-fold range of IFN yields. Viruses that fail to induce IFN express a dominant phenotype in that they suppress IFN induction in cells otherwise programed to produce IFN. The loss of the IFN induction-suppressing phenotype through non-temperature-sensitive mutations is accompanied by the acquisition of IFN inducibility from an otherwise latent state. The cell regulates production of IFN through genetically programed events as part of the developmental process in embryos, and through physiological changes that occur during incubation in vitro. In the developing chicken embryo, the acquisition of IFN inducibility may span a 1,000-fold range of IFN yields, and appears as a time-dependent process proceeding uninterrupted from in ovo to in vitro culture. Populations of established cell lines contain subpopulations (clones) that can differ 10-fold from the mean IFN yielding capacity of the parent, and may undergo physiological changes upon "aging" in vitro that also span a 10-fold range of IFN yields. During development, and most likely as a result of physiological changes brought on by aging in vitro, IFN regulatory factors themselves are regulated. This report reviews the regulation of IFN induction and production with vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) as a model virus, and primary chick embryo cells and an established line of mouse L cells as model host cells to define systematically the extent and manner in which the virus and cell regulate IFN induction and production.
A hemi-nested PCR assay for the detection and identification of vesicular stomatitis virus nucleic acid.	This paper is the first to describe the development of a hemi-nested PCR assay for the detection of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) nucleic acid. This assay was developed as it combines high sensitivity for virus genome detection with the identification of the external amplification product in the reamplification step, thus confirming the specificity of the reaction. The assay did not depend on the presence of infectious virus in samples, as demonstrated by its detection of VSV in blood samples which were non-infectious in tissue culture. One further advantage was that the VSV-New Jersey and VSV-Indiana serotypes could be differentiated through the selective use of the appropriate hemi-nested primer. This assay is ideal for the study of VSV pathogenesis and persistence.
Interactions of psoralen-derivatized oligodeoxyribonucleoside methylphosphonates with vesicular stomatitis virus messenger RNA.	The ability of oligonucleotides to interact selectively with their targets is an important consideration in the design of antisense oligonucleotides. This is especially important in the case of antisense oligomers, such as psoralen-derivatized oligomers, which can irreversibly bind to their targets. We have studied the interactions of a series of psoralen-derivatized antisense oligonucleoside methylphosphonates with the mRNAs of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), mRNAs that have a high degree of sequence homology. Cross-linking reactions were carried out under conditions of low ionic strength in order to reduce mRNA secondary structure. A 12-mer, whose sequence was complementary to VSV M-mRNA and partially complementary to sequences found in N, NS, and G mRNA cross-linked extensively to N-message. On the other hand, 16-mers whose sequences were uniquely complementary to binding sites on N- or M-mRNA specifically and efficiently cross-linked to their targeted mRNAs over the temperature range 0 degree to 37 degrees C. A reverse transcriptase-catalyzed primer extension assay was used to show that one of the N-specific oligomers cross-linked at the expected site on N-mRNA and to estimate the extent of cross-linking. The results demonstrate that psoralen-derivatized oligonucleoside methylphosphonates can cross-link in a sequence-specific manner if the sequences of these oligomers are chosen carefully so as to avoid extensive partial complementarity with other mRNA sequences.
Properties of exonuclease-resistant, psoralen-conjugated oligodeoxyribonucleotides in vitro and in cell culture.	We have prepared oligodeoxyribonucleotides that are modified at the 3'-terminal with N4-(4-aminobutyl)deoxycytidine and derivatized at the 5'-end with a 4'-([N-(aminoethyl)amino]methyl)-4,5',8-trimethylpsoralen, (ae)AMT, and whose sequences are complementary to vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV), N-protein mRNA, (ae)AMT-II, or VSV M-protein mRNA, (ae)AMT-III. (ae)AMT-II cross-links exclusively to VSV N-mRNA when a mixture of the oligomer and poly(A+) RNA from VSV-infected cells is irradiated in vitro with long wavelength UV light at either 20 degrees or 37 degrees C. N4-(4-Aminobutyl)deoxycytidine at the 3'-end of (ae)AMT-II does not appear to affect the binding or cross-linking of the oligomer to its target RNA. Oligomer (ae)AMT-II is completely resistant to hydrolysis by the 3'-5'-exonuclease activity found in fetal calf serum whereas a similar oligomer, (ae)AMT-I, which contains a 3'-terminal deoxycytidine, is hydrolyzed within 30 min when incubated at 37 degrees C. Intact (ae)AMT-II was found in both the cell lysate and cell culture medium after 12 hr of incubation with mouse L-cells along with d-(ae)AMTpT, which appears to result from endonuclease degradation of the oligomer. In contrast no intact (ae)AMT-I was found in either the cell lysate or the culture medium after 1 hr incubation. Although 10 microM (ae)AMT-II had no effect on VSV-protein synthesis in either unirradiated or UV-irradiated VSV-infected mouse L-cells, 10 microM (ae)AMT-III inhibited VSV protein synthesis 30% in irradiated cells. These results show that introduction of a N4-(4-aminobutyl)deoxycytidine at the 3'-end of an oligodeoxyribonucleotide significantly increases the resistance of the oligomer to degradation by 3'-5'-exonucleases but does not interfere with its ability to bind selectively to complementary RNA. Further derivatization with psoralen creates an oligomer that can be triggered to cross-link with RNA in a sequence-specific manner, is taken up intact by mammalian cells in culture, and exhibits biological activity. In combination, these two modifications endow the oligodeoxyribonucleotide with novel properties that could be exploited in the design of antisense or antigene reagents for use in controlling gene expression in mammalian cells.
Improved immunogenicity of recombinant vaccinia virus-anchored gp120 lacking gp41.	To produce a vaccine against human immunodeficiency virus-1 with improved immunogenicity, the transmembrane and cytoplasmic tail regions of human immunodeficiency virus-1 were replaced with those of the Vesicular Stomatitis Virus glycoprotein, and cloned into vaccinia virus. This recombinant vaccinia virus, vvE13, was compared to one expressing full length envelope gp160, vvE1. Env products of both were located on the cell surface. Antibody response, lymphocyte proliferation and cytotoxicity were better with vvE13 than with vvE1 inoculated mice.
Infection of human fetal cardiac myocytes by a human immunodeficiency virus-1-derived vector.	Cardiomyopathy associated with HIV-1 infection is a well-recognized complication. However, it is unknown whether direct cardiomyocyte infection is involved in the pathogenesis of the cardiomyopathy. An HIV-1-based lentiviral vector and wild-type HIV-1 were used to infect human fetal cardiac myocytes in a primary culture. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction, viral p24 antigen determination, and immunofluorescence were used to detect the synthesis of HIV-1 DNA and proteins after the infection. High-efficiency infection occurred using the HIV-1-based lentiviral vector, although no infection occurred with the wild-type HIV-1 strain. Dual-labeling immunofluorescence for HIV-1 proteins and myosin confirmed that cardiomyocytes were infected. This in vitro analysis suggests that direct myocyte infection with wild-type HIV-1 may not be involved in the pathogenesis of HIV-1 cardiomyopathy. However, HIV-1-based vectors may prove useful for ex vivo cardiovascular gene therapy.
Specific interaction of heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle U with the leader RNA sequence of vesicular stomatitis virus.	The 3' ends of the genome and antigenome RNA of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) serve as the promoter sites for the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase in the initiation of transcription and replication, respectively. The leader RNA, the first transcript synthesized during the RNA synthetic step, contains sequences to initiate encapsidation with the nucleocapsid protein, which is a prerequisite for replication. It also plays a role in the inhibition of cellular RNA synthesis. To search for a specific cellular factor(s) which may interact with the leader RNA sequences and regulate these processes, we used a gel mobility shift assay to identify such a protein(s). By using nuclear extract, it was found that in addition to the previously reported La protein, a 120-kDa nuclear protein specifically interacts with the leader RNA. Biochemical and immunological studies identified the 120-kDa protein as heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein particle U (hnRNP U), which is involved in pre-mRNA processing. We also demonstrate that hnRNP U is associated with the leader RNA in the nuclei of VSV-infected cells and also packaged within the purified virions. By double immunofluorescence labeling and confocal microscopy, hnRNP U appears to colocalize with the virus in the cytoplasm of infected cells. These results strongly suggest that hnRNP U plays an important role in the life cycle of VSV.
Effect of host modification and age on airway epithelial gene transfer mediated by a murine leukemia virus-derived vector.	To study retroviral gene transfer to airway epithelia, we used a transient transfection technique to generate high titers (approximately 10(9) infectious units/ml after concentration) of murine leukemia virus (MuLV)-derived vectors pseudotyped with the vesicular stomatitis virus envelope glycoprotein (VSV-G). Transformed (CFT1) and primary airway epithelial cells were efficiently transduced by a VSV-G-pseudotyped lacZ vector (HIT-LZ) in vitro. CFT1 cells and primary cystic fibrosis (CF) airway cell monolayers infected with a vector (HIT-LCFSN) containing human CF transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) in the absence of selection expressed CFTR, as assessed by Western blot analysis, and exhibited functional correction of CFTR-mediated Cl- secretion. In vitro studies of persistence suggested that pseudotransduction was not a significant problem with our vector preparations. In a sulfur dioxide (SO2) inhalational injury model, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) incorporation rates were measured and found to exceed 50% in SO2-injured murine tracheal epithelium. HIT-LZ vector (multiplicity of infection of approximately 10) instilled into the SO2-injured tracheas of anesthetized mice transduced 6.1% +/- 1.3% of superficial airway cells in tracheas of weanling mice (3 to 4 weeks old; n = 10), compared to 1.4 +/- 0.9% in mice 5 weeks of age (n = 4) and 0.2% in mice older than 6 weeks (n = 15). No evidence for gene transfer following delivery of HIT-LZ to tracheas of either weanling or older mice not injured with SO2 was detected. Because only a small fraction of BrdU-labeled airway cells were transduced, we examined the stability of the vector. No significant loss of vector infectivity over intervals (2 h) paralleling those of in vivo protocols was detected in in vitro assays using CFT1 cells. In summary, high-titer vectors permitted complementation of defective CFTR-mediated Cl- transport in CF airway cells in vitro without selection and demonstrated that the age of the animal appeared to be a major factor affecting in vivo retroviral transduction efficiency.
High-titer human immunodeficiency virus type 1-based vector systems for gene delivery into nondividing cells.	Previously we designed novel pseudotyped high-titer replication defective human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) vectors to deliver genes into nondividing cells (J. Reiser, G. Harmison, S. Kluepfel-Stahl, R. O. Brady, S. Karlsson, and M. Schubert, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93:15266-15271, 1996). Since then we have made several improvements with respect to the safety, flexibility, and efficiency of the vector system. A three-plasmid expression system is used to generate pseudotyped HIV-1 particles by transient transfection of human embryonic kidney 293T cells with a defective packaging construct, a plasmid coding for a heterologous envelope (Env) protein, and a vector construct harboring a reporter gene such as neo, ShlacZ (encoding a phleomycin resistance/beta-galactosidase fusion protein), HSA (encoding mouse heat-stable antigen), or EGFP (encoding enhanced green fluorescent protein). The packaging constructs lack functional Vif, Vpr, and Vpu proteins and/or a large portion of the Env coding region as well as the 5' and 3' long terminal repeats, the Nef function, and the presumed packaging signal. Using G418 selection, we routinely obtained vector particles pseudotyped with the vesicular stomatitis virus G glycoprotein (VSV-G) with titers of up to 8 x 10(7) CFU/microgram of p24, provided that a functional Tat coding region was present in the vector. Vector constructs lacking a functional Tat protein yielded titers of around 4 x 10(6) to 8 x 10(6) CFU/microgram of p24. Packaging constructs with a mutation within the integrase (IN) core domain profoundly affected colony formation and expression of the reporter genes, indicating that a functional IN protein is required for efficient transduction. We explored the abilities of other Env proteins to allow formation of pseudotyped HIV-1 particles. The rabies virus and Mokola virus G proteins yielded high-titer infectious pseudotypes, while the human foamy virus Env protein did not. Using the improved vector system, we successfully transduced contact-inhibited primary human skin fibroblasts and postmitotic rat cerebellar neurons and cardiac myocytes, a process not affected by the lack of the accessory proteins.
Kinetic analysis of secretory protein traffic and characterization of golgi to plasma membrane transport intermediates in living cells.	Quantitative time-lapse imaging data of single cells expressing the transmembrane protein, vesicular stomatitis virus ts045 G protein fused to green fluorescent protein (VSVG-GFP), were used for kinetic modeling of protein traffic through the various compartments of the secretory pathway. A series of first order rate laws was sufficient to accurately describe VSVG-GFP transport, and provided compartment residence times and rate constants for transport into and out of the Golgi complex and delivery to the plasma membrane. For ER to Golgi transport the mean rate constant (i.e., the fraction of VSVG-GFP moved per unit of time) was 2.8% per min, for Golgi to plasma membrane transport it was 3.0% per min, and for transport from the plasma membrane to a degradative site it was 0.25% per min. Because these rate constants did not change as the concentration of VSVG-GFP in different compartments went from high (early in the experiment) to low (late in the experiment), secretory transport machinery was never saturated during the experiments. The processes of budding, translocation, and fusion of post-Golgi transport intermediates carrying VSVG- GFP to the plasma membrane were also analyzed using quantitative imaging techniques. Large pleiomorphic tubular structures, rather than small vesicles, were found to be the primary vehicles for Golgi to plasma membrane transport of VSVG-GFP. These structures budded as entire domains from the Golgi complex and underwent dynamic shape changes as they moved along microtubule tracks to the cell periphery. They carried up to 10,000 VSVG-GFP molecules and had a mean life time in COS cells of 3.8 min. In addition, they fused with the plasma membrane without intersecting other membrane transport pathways in the cell. These properties suggest that the post-Golgi intermediates represent a unique transport organelle for conveying large quantities of protein cargo from the Golgi complex directly to the plasma membrane.
Recycling of golgi-resident glycosyltransferases through the ER reveals a novel pathway and provides an explanation for nocodazole-induced Golgi scattering.	During microtubule depolymerization, the central, juxtanuclear Golgi apparatus scatters to multiple peripheral sites. We have tested here whether such scattering is due to a fragmentation process and subsequent outward tracking of Golgi units or if peripheral Golgi elements reform through a novel recycling pathway. To mark the Golgi in HeLa cells, we stably expressed the Golgi stack enzyme N-acetylgalactosaminyltransferase-2 (GalNAc-T2) fused to the green fluorescent protein (GFP) or to an 11-amino acid epitope, VSV-G (VSV), and the trans/TGN enzyme beta1,4-galactosyltransferase (GalT) fused to GFP. After nocodazole addition, time-lapse microscopy of GalNAc-T2-GFP and GalT-GFP revealed that scattered Golgi elements appeared abruptly and that no Golgi fragments tracked outward from the compact, juxtanuclear Golgi complex. Once formed, the scattered structures were relatively stable in fluorescence intensity for tens of minutes. During the entire process of dispersal, immunogold labeling for GalNAc-T2-VSV and GalT showed that these were continuously concentrated over stacked Golgi cisternae and tubulovesicular Golgi structures similar to untreated cells, suggesting that polarized Golgi stacks reform rapidly at scattered sites. In fluorescence recovery after photobleaching over a narrow (FRAP) or wide area (FRAP-W) experiments, peripheral Golgi stacks continuously exchanged resident proteins with each other through what appeared to be an ER intermediate. That Golgi enzymes cycle through the ER was confirmed by microinjecting the dominant-negative mutant of Sar1 (Sar1pdn) blocking ER export. Sar1pdn was either microinjected into untreated or nocodazole-treated cells in the presence of protein synthesis inhibitors. In both cases, this caused a gradual accumulation of GalNAc-T2-VSV in the ER. Few to no peripheral Golgi elements were seen in the nocodazole-treated cells microinjected with Sar1pdn. In conclusion, we have shown that Golgi-resident glycosylation enzymes recycle through the ER and that this novel pathway is the likely explanation for the nocodazole-induced Golgi scattering observed in interphase cells.
