Brain areas in abyssal demersal fishes.	Four areas of the brain which receive primary projections from chemical senses ([1] olfactory bulb, [2] gustatory area including facial and vagal lobes), the eye ([3] optic tectum), and mechanosensory, and-hair-cell based systems i.e. the lateral line, vestibular and auditory systems ([4] trigeminal and octavolateral regions) have been studied and relative size differences used to make deductions on the sensory preferences of 35 fish species living on or near the bottom of the deep sea. Furthermore the relative volumes of the telencephalon and the corpus cerebelli were determined. Two evaluation modes were applied: (1) the relative mean of each system was calculated and species with above-average areas identified; (2) a cluster analysis established multivariate correlations among the sensory systems. The diversity of sensory brain areas in this population of fish suggests that the benthic and epibenthic environment of the abyss presents a rich sensory environment. Vision seems to be the single most important sense suggesting the presence of relevant bioluminescent stimuli. However, in combination the chemical senses, smell and taste, surpass the visual system; most prominent among them is olfaction. The trigeminal/octavolateral area indicating the role of lateral line input and possibly audition is also well represented, but only in association with other sensory modalities. A large volume telencephalon was often observed in combination with a prominent olfactory system, whereas cerebella of unusually large sizes occurred in species with above-average visual, hair-cell based, but also olfactory systems, confirming their role as multimodal sensorimotor coordination centers. In several species the predictions derived from the volumetric brain analyses were confirmed by earlier observations of stomach content and data obtained by baited cameras.
Morphological study on the rootlets comprising the root of the intermediate nerve.	The number and arising sites of the rootlet comprising the intermediate nerve root were investigated in 100 sides of human brains. The arising sites of the rootlets were the pons halfway between the facial and vestibulocochlear nerves (31.9%), the arising portion of the vestibulocochlear nerve on the pons (28.8%) and the stem of the vestibulocochlear nerve (15.9%). The number of roots varied from one to five, with the most common being one root (58%). The number of rootlets per root also varied from one to five. Most of the roots had one rootlet (63%), while 2% of the roots had five rootlets. The variation of the arising sites of the intermediate nerve rootlets and its clinical significance were also discussed.
Relationship between anterior inferior cerebellar artery and facial-vestibulocochlear nerve complex: an anatomical and magnetic resonance images correlation study.	For the successful microneurosurgical treatment of CP angle located pathologies, an understanding of the relationship and variations between neural and vascular structures and a certain diagnosis are the most valuable factors for surgeons. CP angle lesions have now become a visible area by advances in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) technology. An evaluation of this area and the decision for a neurosurgical decompression procedure are easier than before. Twenty unfixed adult human cadaver specimens, that have no sign of central nervous system pathology, were obtained and dissected bilaterally at routine autopsy. The facial-vestibulocochlear (VII - VIIIth) nerve complex and the anterior inferior cerebellar artery (AICA) were identified in all specimens. Thirteen of the 40 (32.5 %) AICA were situated ventrally and fourteen (35 %) were located dorsally to the VII - VIIIth nerve complex. Thirteen (32.5 %) passed between the VIIth and the VIIIth nerve fibers. Five of the 40 (12.5 %) AICA had a loop near the nerve complex and then passed the nerves ventrally or dorsally. In an MRI study 74 adult persons (148 sides) were investigated by using three-dimensional Fourier transformation constructive interference in the steady state technique (3D FT-CISS) on a 1.5 Tesla MRI system (Siemens Magnetom, Erlangen, Germany). The results were as follows; 48 AICA (32.4 % of all 148 AICA) were situated ventrally to the VII-VIIIth nerve complex, 45 AICA (30.4 %) were situated dorsally to the VII-VIIIth nerve complex, and the AICA passed between the VIIth and VIIIth nerves in 51 samples (34.5 %). In four of the 148 CP angles (2.7 %), the AICA was not identified. There was an AICA loop coursing to the internal acoustic meatus in 15 patients (10.1 %). In this study, we examined the relations between VIIth and VIIIth nerve complex and the AICA in cadaver and MRI materials for an understanding of the value and reliability of the radiological data. This study also shows the anatomical variation between these structures.
Retrosigmoid intradural suprameatal approach: advantages and disadvantages from an anatomical perspective.	To assess the advantages and disadvantages of the retrosigmoid intradural suprameatal approach by studying the microsurgical anatomy. This study was performed primarily to assess the advantages of the retrosigmoid intradural suprameatal approach by measuring the amount of increased exposure it provides for lesions of the cerebellopontine and petroclival region as well as to identify the disadvantages of the approach.
Three-dimensional computed tomographic analysis of the relationship between the arcuate eminence and the superior semicircular canal.	The location of the superior semicircular canal (SSC) is often determined intraoperatively based on its topographic association with the arcuate eminence (AE). This determination is not always possible because of the potential variability in the relationship between these two structures. The goal of this study was to describe the three-dimensional (3-D) relationship between the AE and SSC using 3-D computed tomography (CT) and to evaluate the utility of 3-D CT for preoperative planning for surgical approaches to the middle cranial fossa.
Normative size evaluation of internal auditory canal with magnetic resonance imaging: review of 3786 patients.	A narrow internal auditory canal (IAC) is significantly associated with congenital sensorineural hearing loss. It would therefore seem likely that any patient with an IAC measured radiographically to be under the normal range represents an abnormality and probable IAC stenosis. If narrow IAC is diagnosed with routine magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), then the cochlear nerve may be evaluated with special MRI studies. However, there is no consensus in the literature on the normal measurements of the IAC or on what parameters should be used to determine narrow IAC using MRI. In this study, we aimed to assess the normative size of IAC in normal-hearing ears and to determine whether canal size varies with age and gender using MRI.
Peripheral and central auditory specialization in a gliding marsupial, the feathertail glider, Acrobates pygmaeus.	Two specialized features are described in the auditory system of Acrobates pygmaeus, a small gliding marsupial. Firstly, the ear canal includes a transverse disk of bone that partly occludes the canal near the eardrum. The resultant narrow-necked chamber above the eardrum appears to attenuate sound across a broad frequency range, except at 27-29 kHz at which a net gain of sound pressure occurs. Secondly, the lateral medulla is hypertrophied at the level of the cochlear nucleus, forming a massive lateral lobe comprised of multipolar cells and granule cells. This lobe has connections with the auditory nerve and the cerebellum. Speculations are advanced about the functions of these structures in gliding behaviour and predator avoidance.
Neural tuning in the granite spiny lizard.	Scanning electron microscopy was used to examine the basilar papilla of the granite spiny lizard. The papilla contains three distinct hair cell populations: an apical and a basal population with free-standing cilia, and a central population with a tectorial membrane. In the free-standing populations, stereocilium length decreases towards the ends of the papilla. Ciliary tuft morphology differs in the free-standing and the tectorial membrane populations, except that several of the free-standing hair cells with the shortest stereocilia have a tuft morphology like the hair cells in the tectorial membrane population. On the basis of single-fiber physiology, auditory nerve fibers can be divided into a low characteristic frequency (CF) and a high CF population. Mappings of the tonotopic organization of the nerve demonstrated two groups of high CF fibers that correspond to the two free-standing hair cell populations. The low CF fibers are associated with the tectorial membrane hair cell population. Fiber CF correlated with hair cell cilium length, not position on basilar membrane, for hair cells with free-standing cilia. Tonotopic organization of high CF fibers could be predicted reasonably well from the histogram of fiber CFs.
Anatomy of the central auditory pathway. Demonstration with horseradish peroxidase in the guinea pig]	The neurones of the afferent and efferent auditory pathways were labelled by axonally transported horseradish peroxidase. The first neurone of the ascending system is the acoustic nerve with the spiral ganglion. These fibres terminate mainly in the ventral cochlear nucleus (VCN). The neurones of the latter chiefly run to the contralateral superior olivary complex (SOC), whereas the neurones of the dorsal cochlear nucleus (DCN) terminate mainly in the central nucleus of the contralateral inferior colliculus (IC). The nerve cells of the superior olivary complex and nuclei of the lateral lemniscus (DLL, VLL) project to the IC. The IC neurones run mainly uncrossed to the medial geniculate body (MGB), i.e. the neurones of the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus terminate in the ventral nucleus of the medial geniculate body. This latter nucleus projects to the primary region A I of the auditory cortex, whereas the neurones in the pericentral medial geniculate body terminate in the associated auditory regions A II, EP and SF. The auditory areas of both hemispheres is well interconnected by commissural fibres. In addition to this ascending pathway there is a descending system. The parent cells correspond to pyramidal neurones in layer V in the auditory cortex. These neurones terminate in the medial geniculate body and in the pericentral nuclei of the inferior colliculus. From this, efferent neurones project to the DCN and SOC. The neurones of the olivocochlear bundles originate in the SOC; these bundles terminate predominantly on the surface of the outer hair cells in the organ of Corti.
The ascending connections of the torus semicircularis central nucleus in Chrysemys scripta elegans.	Horseradish peroxidase was injected into the torus semicircularis central nucleus of the red-eared turtle Chrysemys scripta elegans. The following observations were made. Axons originating in the central nucleus project ipsilaterally through the tectoreuniens tract to the ipsilateral nucleus reunions. A second tract leaves the central nucleus medioventrally, courses under the floor of the cerebral aqueduct and terminates as an axonal field in the contralateral central nucleus. Finally, there was a small pathway to the deep layers of the ipsilateral optic tectum.
The auditory brainstem nuclei and some of their projections to the inferior colliculus in the North American opossum.	Afferent projections to the inferior colliculus in the North American opossum have been examined using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase. Projections to primarily the contralateral inferior colliculus arise in the dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei, the auditory nerve nucleus and the spinal trigeminal nucleus pars caudalis, while ipsilateral projections arise in the superior paraolivary nucleus, the ventral nucleus of the trapezoid body, the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, the paralemniscal nucleus, the deep layer of the superior colliculus and the parabrachial nucleus. Bilateral projections to the inferior colliculus originate within the dorsal column nuclei, the nucleus reticularis gigantocellularis pars ventralis, the lateral and medial superior olivary nuclei, the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus and the auditory cortex. Nissl, fiber and Golgi-stained preparations were used to study the neuronal organization of those auditory nuclei with projections to the inferior colliculus. Anterograde axonal degeneration and transport techniques revealed that the inferior colliculus is innervated differentially by the dorsal and ventral cochlear nucleus, the superior olivary complex and the auditory neocortex. Axons from the contralateral dorsal cochlear nucleus and the ipsilateral superior olivary complex innervate both the central nucleus and external cortex, whereas those from ventral cochlear nucleus and contralateral, superior olivary complex project to only the central nucleus. Projections from auditory cortex form the complement of those from the cochlear nuclei and superior olivary complex, that is, they terminate in a thin band overlying the dorsal cortex and the superficial layer of external cortex. Our results have been compared with those obtained from eutherian mammals and it is clear that there are striking similarities in neuronal organization and connectivity. Since the opossum is born 12 days after conception and has an extended development in an external pouch, it may be suited for developmental studies of the mammalian auditory connections and the behaviors dependent of them.
Anatomy and physiology of the gerbil cochlear nucleus: an improved surgical approach for microelectrode studies.	A new, improved surgical approach to the cochlear nucleus is developed in the gerbil. This new approach involves making a small hole in the lateral wall of the temporal bone located within the perimeter of the superior semicircular canal. Microelectrodes are passed through the intact parafloccular lobe of the cerebellum to the cochlear nucleus. One advantage of the new approach is that no removal of any CNS vasculature or neural tissue is necessary. Relations between the bulla, temporal bone and cochlear nucleus are presented in detail. The new approach is demonstrated by making single unit recordings from the cochlear nucleus and classifying response patterns as measured in PST histograms. All of the response types found in cat are found in the gerbil.
Neural encoding of single-formant stimuli in the cat. II. Responses of anteroventral cochlear nucleus units.	1. We have studied responses of anteroventral cochlear nucleus (AVCN) units to single-formant stimuli (SFS), in an effort to make quantitative comparisons with responses observed in auditory-nerve fibers (ANFs) to the same stimuli (Wang and Sachs 1993) and to reveal some of the signal processing mechanisms at the AVCN. Single-unit recordings and subsequent analyses were performed on each type of commonly recorded units, namely primarylike (Pri), primarylike with notch (PN), sustained chopper (ChS), transient chopper (ChT), and onset chopper (OnC), as well as a few onset (On) units, from the AVCN in anesthetized cats. The responses were obtained at a wide range of sound levels and at a frequency range of 1-10 kHz. Modulation in the envelopes of discharge patterns was quantified by a measure called modulation depth. 2. At moderate to high sound levels, most AVCN units were found to have enhanced modulation depth compared with that of ANFs, although the degree of enhancement varies among different types. All AVCN units, except Pri type, showed an enhancement in modulation depth over that of the highest of ANFs at moderate to high sound levels in the order of (from the highest to the lowest) On, OnC, ChT/PN, and ChS. Specifically, 1) modulation depth in Pri units was comparable to that of high spontaneous rate (SR) ANFs at low sound levels and to that of low/medium SR ANFs at high sound levels (in dB SPL). When sound level was normalized by unit threshold, Pri units, on average, exhibited only limited enhancement in envelope modulation at high sound levels (> 80 dB re threshold); 2) PN units showed substantially enhanced modulation depth over that of all SR groups of ANFs at moderate to high sound levels in dB SPL or dB re threshold scales; 3) significant enhancement in modulation depth was seen in both ChS and ChT units, with a slightly higher modulation depth in ChT type across sound levels (in dB SPL or dB re threshold); 4) modulation depth of OnC units was higher than those of primary-like (Pri and PN) and chopper (ChS and ChT) units at a wide range of sound levels; 5) responses from a limited sample of On units showed the highest modulation depth among all types of AVCN units. 3. Detailed analysis revealed that the enhanced modulation depth in the responses of AVCN units is the result of increased envelope peak height and decreased envelope minimum, relative to those of ANFs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Investigations in electrophysiology and morphology of the VIII cranial nerve.	The morphological and functional changes of the eighth nerve in patients undergoing cerebello-pontine angle (CPA) surgery are under investigation in the ENT Department of the University of Verona. The main aspects of the research are: ultrastructural examination of the eighth nerve in normals and subjects operated on for vestibular or cochleo-vestibular neurectomy and for acoustic neuroma; monitoring cochlear nerve function during CPA surgery by monopolar and bipolar recording of cochlear nerve action potential (CNAPs). The specific aims of this research are: to acquire information on the pathophysiology of a number of peripheral cochleo-vestibular disorders; to evaluate the role of intraoperative recording of the eighth nerve in preserving hearing.
Connections of octaval and lateral line nuclei of the medulla in the goldfish, including the cytoarchitecture of the secondary octaval population in goldfish and catfish.	Cytoarchitectural analyses combined with injections of the tracer horseradish peroxidase in various structures in the brain of the goldfish, Carassius auratus, have defined some of the major components of acoustic and lateral line mechanosensory circuits between the medulla and midbrain. The main acoustic receptor in Carassius, the saccule, is known to provide a major input to the dorsomedial zone of the descending octaval nucleus. The dorsomedial zone in turn projects bilaterally to the secondary octaval population (SO) and to nucleus centralis of the torus semicircularis. The SO is composed of three major subdivisions which are also present in a related otophysan, the catfish Ictalurus punctatus. The SO in Carassius projects bilaterally to nucleus centralis and to the saccular recipient zones of the ipsilateral descending octaval nucleus. By contrast, the mechanosensory lateral line receptors are known to direct most of their input to nucleus medialis. Nucleus medialis in turn projects bilaterally to nucleus praeeminentialis, nucleus ventrolateralis of the torus semicircularis, and the optic tectum, and to the contralateral nucleus medialis. We also provide evidence for a bilateral projection of nucleus medialis to the sensory trigeminal nucleus, and for a reciprocal input from the sensory trigeminal nucleus to the ipsilateral nucleus medialis.
