Beta1-adrenergic receptors but not beta2-adrenergic or vasopressin receptors regulate K+ secretion in vestibular dark cells of the inner ear.	Receptors were identified pharmacologically in functional studies where K+ secretion was monitored as transepithelial current (Isc). Further, receptors were identified as transcripts by cloning and sequencing of reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) products. Isc under control conditions was 796 +/- 15 microA/cm2 (n = 329) in gerbilline VDC and 900 +/- 75 microA/cm2 (n = 6) in murine VDC. Forskolin (10(-5) m) but not 1, 9-dideoxy-forskolin increased Isc by a factor of 1.42 +/- 0.05 (n = 7). 10(-9) m Arg8-vasopressin and 10(-9) m desmopressin had no significant effect in gerbilline and murine VDC. Isoproterenol, norepinephrine, epinephrine and prenalterol stimulated Isc maximally by a factor of 1.38 +/- 0.04 (n = 7), 1.59 +/- 0.06 (n = 6), 1.64 +/- 0.03 (n = 8) and 1.37 +/- 0.03 (n = 6), respectively. The EC50 values were (1.4 +/- 0.7) x 10(-8) m (n = 36), (2.5 +/- 1.0) x 10(-8) m (n = 31), (1.7 +/- 0.7) x 10(-7) m (n = 36) and (5 +/- 4) x 10(-7) m (n = 32), respectively. Propanolol inhibited isoproterenol-induced stimulation of Isc. Atenolol, ICI118551 and CGP20712A inhibited isoproterenol-induced stimulation of Isc with a pKDB of 5.0 x 10(-8) m (pKDB = 7.30 +/- 0.07, n = 38), 4.4 x 10(-8) m (pKDB = 7.36 +/- 0.14, n = 37) and 6.8 x 10(-12) m (pKDB = 11.17 +/- 0.12, n = 37), respectively. RT-PCR of total RNA isolated from microdissected vestibular labyrinth tissue using specific primers revealed products of the predicted sizes for beta1- and beta2-adrenergic receptors but not for beta3-adrenergic receptors. Sequence analysis of the amplified cDNA fragments from gerbilline tissues revealed a 96.4%, 91.5% and 89.6% identity compared to rat beta1-, beta2- and beta3-adrenergic receptors, respectively. These results demonstrate that K+ secretion in VDC is under the control of beta1- but not beta2- or beta3-adrenergic receptors or vasopressin-receptors.
Involvement of nitric oxide in aminoglycoside vestibulotoxicity in guinea pigs.	Involvement of nitric oxide (NO) has been reported in physiological and pathological conditions in the inner ear. Recently, the presence of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was demonstrated in the vestibular epithelium. In this study we used nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diapholase staining to monitor NOS activity during degeneration of guinea pig vestibular epithelia affected by streptomycin. Increased NOS activity was observed in affected epithelia in a dose- and time-dependent manner and a NOS inhibitor could protect hair cells from apoptosis. Additionally, cycloheximide significantly reduced NOS activity and the occurrence of apoptosis. These findings suggest that NO is involved in the degenerative process of vestibular epithelia caused by aminoglycosides.
Role of gene regulation during vestibular compensation: an integrative approach.	Identification of the role of gene regulation in vestibular compensation is one aspect of a larger issue: the identification of molecular bases for plasticity in multiple vestibulo-ocular, vestibulo-spinal, vestibulo-collic, and vestibulo-autonomic responses. To achieve this goal, it is incumbent on investigators to examine molecular events within the contexts of the single neuron, the location of the neuron in pathways, and the timing of the molecular events relative to behavioral compensation. Hence, the goal of identifying molecular bases for a particular compensatory response (e.g., the disappearance of spontaneous nystagmus in the light or the disappearance of static head tilt) requires careful attention to the time course of physiologic compensation and the location of the effects within central pathways that have the potential to affect the responses. The effects of impeding these site-specific and time-specific changes can then be tested to determine their role in the compensatory process. A consideration of the recent literature on molecular events related to the resolution of spontaneous nystagmus in the light indicates that a meaningful approach to these issues requires a broadening of our conceptual approach. Specifically, one must consider the roles of transcriptional, translational, and posttranslational events on the turnover of critical signaling substrates for vestibular compensation.
Monoclonal L-citrulline immunostaining reveals nitric oxide-producing vestibular neurons.	Nitric oxide is an unstable free radical that serves as a novel messenger molecule in the central nervous system (CNS). In order to understand the interplay between classic and novel chemical communication systems in vestibular pathways, the staining obtained using a monoclonal antibody directed against L-citrulline was compared with the labeling observed using more traditional markers for the presence of nitric oxide. Brainstem tissue from adult rats was processed for immunocytochemistry employing a monoclonal antibody directed against L-citrulline, a polyclonal antiserum against neuronal nitric oxide synthase, and/or NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. Our findings demonstrate that L-citrulline can be fixed in situ by vascular perfusion, and can be visualized in fixed CNS tissue sections by immunocytochemistry. Further, the same vestibular regions and cell types are labeled by NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, by the neuronal nitric oxide synthase antiserum, and by our anti-L-citrulline antibody. Clusters of L-citrulline-immunoreactive neurons are present in subregions of the vestibular nuclei, including the caudal portion of the inferior vestibular nucleus, the magnocellular portion of the medial vestibular nucleus, and the large cells in the ventral tier of the lateral vestibular nucleus. NADPH-diaphorase histochemical staining of these neurons clearly demonstrated their multipolar, fusiform and globular somata and long varicose dendritic processes. These results provide support for the suggestion that nitric oxide serves key roles in both vestibulo-autonomic and vestibulo-spinal pathways.
Vestibular cytotoxicity in gentamicin-treated frogs: a preliminary report.	The aim of this study is to determine the immediate effects of intraperitoneal doses of gentamicin (GM) which would result in variable degrees of destruction of crista ampullary hair cells of frogs. This information will serve as a baseline guide to cell regeneration experiments on the damaged vestibular sense organ.
Estimation of the number of nerve fibers in the human vestibular endorgans using unbiased stereology and immunohistochemistry.	The objective of this study was to obtain estimates of the number of nerve fibers in the human crista ampullaris and utricular macula from normal individuals using unbiased stereology and immunohistochemistry. Vestibular endorgans with the attached vestibular nerve stump were microdissected from the temporal bones. Specimens were divided into two groups. The first group (group 1, N = 8, age range, 68-98 years old, mean = 87 years) was fixed with paraformaldehyde and post-fixed with osmium tetroxide. The second group (group 2, N = 5, age range, 80-98 years old, mean = 86.6 years) was fixed with paraformaldehyde, immunoreacted with monoclonal antibodies against neurofilaments, and post-fixed with osmium tetroxide. The endorgans of both groups were embedded in resin and 2-mum thick sections were made. Estimates of the number of nerve fibers were obtained using an unbiased stereological method, the fractionator. The diameter distribution of nerve fibers was also obtained. The average number of fibers in the horizontal, posterior and superior cristae of individuals in group 1 (N = 14 cristae) was 1424+/-320 (CV = 0.22). The average percentage of small (less than 3 microm), medium (between 3 and 5 microm) and large (more than 5 microm) size fibers was 22.4%, 51.5% and 26.1%, respectively. In group 2 (N = 12), there was an average of 1792+/-99 (CV = 0.05) nerve fibers. The average percentage of small, medium and large size fibers was 22%, 51.2% and 26.8%. In the macula utricle from group 1, there was an average of 3026 nerve fibers (N = 2, ages 80 and 96 years old). There was an average 30.75% small, 56% medium and 13.2% large size fibers. In the utricular macula from group 2 (N = 3, ages 84, 92 and 96 years old), there was an average of 3715 nerve fibers. The average percentage of small, medium and large size fibers was 33.2%, 51.7% and 15.1%. The nerve fiber number in both groups is within the range of previous studies, however, the number of fibers in group 2 was significantly higher than that in group 1 (p = 0.01). This difference is likely due to increased sensitivity gained by the immunohistochemical staining of the axoplasm of nerve fibers in group 2. Results from the present study demonstrate the use of unbiased stereology and immunohistochemistry in human vestibular endorgans, as a reliable and efficient method to estimate the number of nerve fibers. These methods can be applied for studies of normal aging and pathological conditions of the vestibular periphery.
Calretinin immunoreactivity in chinchilla and guinea pig vestibular end organs characterizes the calyx unit subpopulation.	Immunohistochemical investigations with calretinin, a neuronal calcium binding protein, were made in the vestibular end organs of five guinea pigs and one chinchilla. A specific pattern of immunoreactivity of afferent nerve fibers was found. Immunostaining was restricted to thick fibers innervating the apex of the cristae or the striola of the utricular macula. A study of serial sections revealed that the stained afferents gave rise to calyx endings, but not to collaterals containing bouton endings. The results are consistent with the conclusion that, of the three classes of fibers defined by Fernández et al. (1988, 1990), only calyx units are calretinin immunoreactive. A count of the number of labelled fibers in the chinchilla crista suggests that the entire population of calyx units is immunoreactive. The conclusion is surprising since the physiology of calyx units does not differ qualitatively from that of other afferents (Baird et al. 1988; Goldberg et al. 1990). The presence of this protein in the calyx neurons may be related to specific post-synaptic functions of this type of afferents.
Robust postmortem survival of murine vestibular and cochlear stem cells.	Potential treatment strategies of neurodegenerative and other diseases with stem cells derived from nonembryonic tissues are much less subjected to ethical criticism than embryonic stem cell-based approaches. Here we report the isolation of inner ear stem cells, which may be useful in cell replacement therapies for hearing loss, after protracted postmortem intervals. We found that neonatal murine inner ear tissues, including vestibular and cochlear sensory epithelia, display remarkably robust cellular survival, even 10 days postmortem. Similarly, isolation of sphere-forming stem cells was possible up to 10 days postmortem. We detected no difference in the proliferation and differentiation potential between stem cells isolated directly after death and up to 5 days postmortem. At longer postmortem intervals, we observed that the potency of sphere-derived cells to spontaneously differentiate into mature cell types diminishes prior to the cells losing their potential for self-renewal. Three-week-old mice also displayed sphere-forming stem cells in all inner ear tissues investigated up to 5 days postmortem. In summary, our results demonstrate that postmortem murine inner ear tissue is suited for isolation of stem cells.
Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor subtype expression in avian vestibular hair cells, nerve terminals and ganglion cells.	Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs) are widely expressed in the CNS and peripheral nervous system and play an important role in modulating the cell activity and function. We have shown that the cholinergic agonist carbachol reduces the pigeon's inwardly rectifying potassium channel (pKir2.1) ionic currents in native vestibular hair cells. We have cloned and sequenced pigeon mAChR subtypes M2-M5 and we have studied the expression of all five mAChR subtypes (M1-M5) in the pigeon vestibular end organs (semicircular canal ampullary cristae and utricular maculae), vestibular nerve fibers and the vestibular (Scarpa's) ganglion using tissue immunohistochemistry (IH), dissociated single cell immunocytochemistry (IC) and Western blotting (WB). We found that vestibular hair cells, nerve fibers and ganglion cells each expressed all five (M1-M5) mAChR subtypes. Two of the three odd-numbered mAChRs (M1, M5) were present on the hair cell cilia, supporting cells and nerve terminals. And all three odd numbered mAChRs (M1, M3 and M5) were expressed on cuticular plates, myelin sheaths and Schwann cells. Even-numbered mAChRs were seen on the nerve terminals. M2 was also shown on the cuticular plates and supporting cells. Vestibular efferent fibers and terminals were not identified in our studies. Results from WB of the dissociated vestibular epithelia, nerve fibers and vestibular ganglia were consistent with the results from IH and IC. Our findings suggest that there is considerable co-expression of the subtypes on the neural elements of the labyrinth. Further electrophysiological and pharmacological studies should delineate the mechanisms of action of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors on structures in the labyrinth.
Physical separation of the populations of cochlear and vestibular efferent somas. A study using horseradish peroxidase]	We have physically separated cochlear and vestibular end organs, and after injecting horseradish peroxidase two different populations of efferent somas have been described belonging to the cochlea and vestibule.
Differential intrinsic response dynamics determine synaptic signal processing in frog vestibular neurons.	Central vestibular neurons process head movement-related sensory signals over a wide dynamic range. In the isolated frog whole brain, second-order vestibular neurons were identified by monosynaptic responses after electrical stimulation of individual semicircular canal nerve branches. Neurons were classified as tonic or phasic vestibular neurons based on their different discharge patterns in response to positive current steps. With increasing frequency of sinusoidally modulated current injections, up to 100 Hz, there was a concomitant decrease in the impedance of tonic vestibular neurons. Subthreshold responses as well as spike discharge showed classical low-pass filter-like characteristics with corner frequencies ranging from 5 to 20 Hz. In contrast, the impedance of phasic vestibular neurons was relatively constant over a wider range of frequencies or showed a resonance at approximately 40 Hz. Above spike threshold, single spikes of phasic neurons were synchronized with the sinusoidal stimulation between approximately 20 and 50 Hz, thus showing characteristic bandpass filter-like properties. Both the subthreshold resonance and bandpass filter-like discharge pattern depend on the activation of an I(D) potassium conductance. External current or synaptic stimulation that produced impedance increases (i.e., depolarization in tonic or hyperpolarization in phasic neurons) had opposite and complementary effects on the responses of the two types of neurons. Thus, membrane depolarization by current steps or repetitive synaptic excitation amplified synaptic inputs in tonic vestibular neurons and reduced them in phasic neurons. These differential, opposite membrane response properties render the two neuronal types particularly suitable for either integration (tonic neurons) or signal detection (phasic neurons), respectively, and dampens variations of the resting membrane potential in the latter.
Light- and electron microscopy of isolated vestibular hair cells from the guinea pig.	Cells isolated from the guinea-pig vestibular sensory epithelia were studied using light- and electron-microscopic techniques. The cells maintained their characteristic shapes when they had been separated. Mammalian vestibular cells are traditionally divided into two classes, type-I and type-II hair cells. It was, however, found that the population of isolated cells consisted of hair cells with a striking variability in shape and size. This was most conspicuous for the type-I hair cells. Isolated hair cells processed for electron microscopy showed that the isolation process caused minor ultrastructural damage but that the separation often was incomplete in that the large calyx-like nerve endings were still attached to type-I cells. The results suggest that the distinction of only two classes might be insufficient to describe mammalian vestibular hair cells.
Distribution of glycoconjugates in ion transport cells of gerbil inner ear.	Ion transport cells in gerbil inner ear were differentiated histochemically by staining glycoconjugates (GCs) with a battery of horseradish peroxidase-conjugated lectins. Strong staining with PSA and LCA showed a high content of N-linked oligosaccharides in transport cell GCs. Reactivity with PHA-L and PHA-E identified GC with triantennary and with bisected biantennary N-linked oligosaccharides, respectively, in these cells. High affinity for DSA and PWM demonstrated abundant N-acetyl lactosamine in N-linked side chains. Ion transporting epithelial cells reacting with lectins specific for N-linked oligosaccharides included strial marginal cells and outer sulcus cells of the cochlea and dark cells, transitional cells, and planum semilunatum cells of the vestibular system. In general, all of the inner ear transport epithelial cells revealed a similar lectin binding profile, with the one exception that SBA reacted strongly with ion transporting cells in the vestibular system but only weakly with those in the cochlea. Fibrocytes specialized for ion transport located in distinct areas in the suprastrial and inferior regions of the spiral ligament also stained with lectins that demonstrate N-glycosylation. However, transport fibrocytes differed from transport epithelial cells in two ways. First, they reacted e with HPA, DBA, VVA, and SJA specific for O-linkages and second, they failed to react with UEA I. The staining pattern for N-glycosylated GC resembled that for Na+, K(+)-ATPase in inner ear, suggesting a relationship between these constituents.
Spatial and temporal segregation of auditory and vestibular neurons in the otic placode.	The otic placode generates the auditory and vestibular sense organs and their afferent neurons; however, how auditory and vestibular fates are specified is unknown. We have generated a fate map of the otic placode and show that precursors for vestibular and auditory cells are regionally segregated in the otic epithelium. The anterior-lateral portion of the otic placode generates vestibular neurons, whereas the posterior-medial region gives rise to auditory neurons. Precursors for vestibular and auditory sense organs show the same distribution. Thus, different regions of the otic placode correspond to particular sense organs and their innervating neurons. Neurons from contiguous domains rarely intermingle suggesting that the regional organisation of the otic placode dictates positional cues to otic neurons. But, in addition, vestibular and cochlear neurogenesis also follows a stereotyped temporal pattern. Precursors from the anterior-lateral otic placode delaminate earlier than those from its medial-posterior portion. The expression of the proneural genes NeuroM and NeuroD reflects the sequence of neuroblast formation and differentiation. Both genes are transiently expressed in vestibular and then in cochlear neuroblasts, while differentiated neurons express Islet1, Tuj1 and TrkC, but not NeuroM or NeuroD. Together, our results indicate that the position of precursors within the otic placode confers identity to sensory organs and to the corresponding otic neurons. In addition, positional information is integrated with temporal cues that coordinate neurogenesis and sensory differentiation.
Ionic currents in isolated vestibular hair cells from the guinea-pig crista ampullaris.	Ionic currents have been recorded under whole cell patch clamp in cells isolated from the guinea-pig vestibular system. Type I and type II cells were separately identified. Type II cells were further classified as short (less than 15 microns in length) or tall (greater than 15 microns). Under whole cell voltage clamp, cells showed an outward current which activated at potentials above about -50 mV, and tail currents which reversed near the potassium equilibrium potential. The outward current was reduced in the presence of external 10 mM tetraethylammonium or cadmium ions and when calcium was removed from the external medium. A small cadmium-sensitive transient inward current, a putative calcium current, was observed in cells loaded with caesium from the patch pipette. In 27 out of 64 cells a component of the recorded outward current inactivated. Such current components were most common in tall type II cells. This inactivating component was blocked by 4-aminopyridine and removed by depolarizing prepulses consistent with it being an A-type potassium current. Type I cells, on the other hand, showed mainly a non-inactivating outward current which slowly relaxed on repolarization to resting potentials. When membrane potentials were measured under current clamp, injections of less than 100 pA produced a single, highly damped transient followed by a plateau in Type II cells. No such transient was present in Type I cells. There is thus little evidence for an electrical resonance in these cells.
Responses of pigeon vestibular hair cells to cholinergic agonists and antagonists.	Acetylcholine (ACh) is the major neurotransmitter released from vestibular efferent terminals onto hair cells and afferents. Previous studies indicate that the two classes of acetylcholine receptors, nicotinic (nAChRs) and muscarinic receptors (mAChRs), are expressed by vestibular hair cells (VHCs). To identify if both classes of receptors are present in VHCs, whole cell, voltage-clamp- and current-clamp-patch recordings were performed on isolated pigeon vestibular type I and type II HCs during the application of the cholinergic agonists, acetylcholine and carbachol, and the cholinergic antagonists, D-tubocurarine and atropine. By applying in different combinations, these compounds were used to selectively activate either nAChRs or mAChRs. The effects of nAChR and mAChR activation on HC currents and zero electrode current potential (V(z)) were monitored. It was found that presumed mAChR activation decreased both inward and outward currents in both type I and type II HCs, resulting in either a depolarization or hyperpolarization. Conversely, nAChR activation mainly increased both inward and outward currents in type II HCs, resulting in a hyperpolarization of their V(z). nAChR activation also increased outward currents in type I HCs resulting in either a depolarization or hyperpolarization of their V(z). The decrease of inward and outward currents and the depolarization of the V(z) in type I pigeon HCs by activation of mAChRs represents a new finding. Ion channel candidates in pigeon vestibular HCs that might underlie the modulation of the macroscopic ionic currents and V(z) by different AChR activation are discussed.
Hair cell generation by notch inhibition in the adult mammalian cristae.	Balance disorders caused by hair cell loss in the sensory organs of the vestibular system pose a significant health problem worldwide, particularly in the elderly. Currently, this hair cell loss is permanent as there is no effective treatment. This is in stark contrast to nonmammalian vertebrates who robustly regenerate hair cells after damage. This disparity in regenerative potential highlights the need for further manipulation in order to stimulate more robust hair cell regeneration in mammals. In the utricle, Notch signaling is required for maintaining the striolar support cell phenotype into the second postnatal week. Notch signaling has further been implicated in hair cell regeneration after damage in the mature utricle. Here, we investigate the role of Notch signaling in the mature mammalian cristae in order to characterize the Notch-mediated regenerative potential of these sensory organs. For these studies, we used the γ-secretase inhibitor, N-[N-(3,5-difluorophenacetyl)-L-alanyl]-S-phenylglycine t-butyl ester (DAPT), in conjunction with a method we developed to culture cristae in vitro. In postnatal and adult cristae, we found that 5 days of DAPT treatment resulted in a downregulation of the Notch effectors Hes1 and Hes5 and also an increase in the total number of Gfi1(+) hair cells. Hes5, as reported by Hes5-GFP, was downregulated specifically in peripheral support cells. Using lineage tracing with proteolipid protein (PLP)/CreER;mTmG mice, we found that these hair cells arose through transdifferentiation of support cells in cristae explanted from mice up to 10 weeks of age. These transdifferentiated cells arose without proliferation and were capable of taking on a hair cell morphology, migrating to the correct cell layer, and assembling what appears to be a stereocilia bundle with a long kinocilium. Overall, these data show that Notch signaling is active in the mature cristae and suggest that it may be important in maintaining the support cell fate in a subset of peripheral support cells.
Cytochemical study of K+-p-nitrophenyl phosphatase (K+-NPPase) in planum semilunatum and dark cells of the squirrel monkey.	We examined the ultrastructure of the planum semilunatum, and also cytochemically demonstrated K+-dependent p-nitrophenyl phosphatase (K+-NPPase) activity in planum semilunatum and ampullary dark cells of the squirrel monkey. K+-NPPase activity was found in the basal part of the planum semilunatum. The reaction products were limited to the cytoplasmic side of the plasma membranes. A more intense reaction was found in the basal infoldings and the lateral interdigitations of the dark cells. On the other hand, the apical cell surface of both cell types showed no K+-NPPase activity. The present results show that both the planum semilunatum and the dark cells may both be involved in maintaining endolymph homeostasis.
Localization of calcitonin gene-related peptide in the vestibular end-organs in the rat: an immunohistochemical study.	The present immunocytochemical study has demonstrated the presence of a dense fiber plexus containing calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the vestibular end-organs in the rat. These fibers appear to originate from the central nervous system.
Expression of S-100 protein in the human fetal inner ear.	The expression of S-100 protein was analyzed in the human fetal inner ear using immunohistochemical methods. In the 11-week-old human fetus, the cochlea was almost negative for S-100 protein, whereas in the 14- and 15-week-old fetuses, the spiral ligament, Reissner's membrane and spiral limbus were positive for the protein. These results suggest that S-100 protein may be a reliable marker for determining functional maturation of the fetal cochlea and the inner ear. In the 11-, 14- and 15-week fetuses, the epithelial cells of the endolymphatic sac were labelled with S-100 protein. These findings demonstrate that the endolymphatic sac, spiral limbus and spiral ligament in the fetal inner ear have a high activity of S-100 protein, with this presence possibly related to fluid and ion transport of endolymph.
Cholinergic agonists increase intracellular calcium concentration in frog vestibular hair cells.	Acetylcholine (ACh) is usually considered to be the neurotransmitter of the efferent vestibular system. The nature and the localization of cholinergic receptors have been investigated on frog isolated vestibular hair cells (VHCs), by measuring variations of intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i), using calcium sensitive dye fura-2. Focal iontophoretic ACh (1 M, 300 nA.40 ms) application induced a rapid increase in [Ca2+]i, reaching a peak in 20 s and representing about 5-fold the resting level (from 61 +/- 6 to 320 +/- 26 nM). Applications of muscarinic agonists as methacholine and carbachol induced weaker calcium responses (from 78 +/- 25 to 238 +/- 53 nM) than the one obtained with ACh applications. These muscarinic agonists were efficient only in precise zones. Desensitization of muscarinic receptors to successive stimulations was significant. Perfusion of nicotine or 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenyl-piperazinium (DMPP), a nicotinic agonist, induced an increase in [Ca2+]i only in some cells (4/28 with DMPP). These results indicated the presence of cholinergic receptors on frog VHCs: muscarinic receptors were more responsive than nicotinic receptors. Presence of muscarinic and nicotinic receptors in the membrane of VHCs could indicate different modulations of VHCs activity mediated by [Ca2+]i and involving an efferent control which represents a central regulation of the vestibular afferent message.
Transepithelial voltage and resistance of vestibular dark cell epithelium from the gerbil ampulla.	Transepithelial voltage (Vt) and resistance (Rt) were measured across the dark cell epithelium of the gerbil ampulla using a micro Ussing chamber of improved design in order to test the view that the histologically similar epithelia in the utricle and in the ampullae exhibit similar electrophysiologic functions. Vt was found to be 8.0 +/- 0.3 mV and Rt was 11.6 +/- 0.4 ohm-cm2 (N = 179) when both sides of the tissue were perfused with symmetric perilymph-like solution. The equivalent short circuit current (Isc = Vt/Rt) was 712 +/- 18 microA/cm2 (N = 179). Isc was reduced from 638 +/- 60 to 48 +/- 16 microA/cm2 (N = 14) by basolateral perfusion of 10(-3) M ouabain and from 538 +/- 27 to 27 +/- 4 microA/cm2 (N = 15) by basolateral perfusion of 5 x 10(-5) M bumetanide. Basolateral K+ steps (Na+ substitution) from 3.6 to 25 mM increased Vt from 6.5 +/- 0.5 to 12.2 +/- 0.6 mV and reduced Rt from 9.7 +/- 0.7 to 7.4 +/- 0.5 ohm-cm2 (N = 43). Apical K+ steps from 3.6 to 25, to 100 mM or to 145 mM led to a decrease in both Vt and Rt. The steady state Vt during apical perfusion of 145 mM K+ was near zero. Upon return to 3.6 mM K+, Vt transiently overshot its original level. Apical Cl- steps from 150 to 50 mM (gluconate substitution) monophasically decreased Vt from 5.9 +/- 0.7 to 4.1 +/- 0.8 mV (N = 15) and increased Rt from 9.6 +/- 1.3 to 12.0 +/- 1.5 ohm-cm2 (N = 14).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Second-order vestibular neuron morphology of the extra-MLF anterior canal pathway in the cat.	Second-order vestibular neurons form the central links of the vestibulo-oculomotor three-neuron arcs that mediate compensatory eye movements. Most of the axons that provide for vertical vestibulo-ocular reflexes ascend in the medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF) toward target neurons in the oculomotor and trochlear nuclei. We have now determined the morphology of individual excitatory second-order neurons of the anterior semicircular canal system that course outside the MLF to the oculomotor nucleus. The data were obtained by the intracellular horseradish peroxidase method. Cell somata of the extra-MLF anterior canal neurons were located in the superior vestibular nucleus. The main axon ascended through the deep reticular formation beneath the brachium conjunctivum to the rostral extent of the nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis, where it crossed the midline. The main axon continued its trajectory to the caudal edge of the red nucleus from where it coursed back toward the oculomotor nucleus. Within the oculomotor nucleus, collaterals reached superior rectus and inferior oblique motoneurons. Some axon branches recrossed the midline within the oculomotor nucleus and reached the superior rectus motoneuron subdivision on that side. Since these neurons did not give off a collateral toward the spinal cord, they were classified as being of the vestibulo-oculomotor type and are thought to be involved exclusively in eye movement control. The signal content and spatial tuning characteristics of this anterior canal vestibulo-oculomotor neuron class remain to be determined.
Hair cell formation in cultures of dissociated cells from the vestibular sensory epithelium of the bullfrog.	Bullfrog vestibular hair cells are capable of regenerating in vitro.
Potassium depolarization of mammalian vestibular sensory cells increases [Ca2+]i through voltage-sensitive calcium channels.	The existence of voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels in type I vestibular hair cells of mammals has not been conclusively proven. Furthermore, Ca2+ channels present in type II vestibular hair cells of mammals have not been pharmacologically identified. Fura-2 fluorescence was used to estimate, in both cell types, intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) variations induced by K+ depolarization and modified by specific Ca2+ channel agonists and antagonists. At rest, [Ca2+]i was 90 +/- 20 nM in both cell types. Microperifusion of high-K+ solution (50 mM) for 1 s increased [Ca2+]i to 290 +/- 50 nM in type I (n = 20) and to 440 +/- 50 nM in type II cells (n = 10). In Ca2+-free medium, K+ did not alter [Ca2+]i. The specific L-type Ca2+ channel agonist, Bay K, and antagonist, nitrendipine, modified in a dose-dependent manner the K+-induced [Ca2+]i increase in both cell types with maximum effect at 2 microM and 400 nM, respectively. Ni2+, a T-type Ca2+ channel blocker, reduced K+-evoked Ca2+ responses in a dose-dependent manner. For elevated Ni2+ concentrations, the response was differently affected by Ni2+ alone, or combined to nitrendipine (500 nM). In optimal conditions, nitrendipine and Ni2+ strongly depressed by 95% the [Ca2+]i increases. By contrast, neither omega-agatoxin IVA (1 microM), a specific P- and Q-type blocker, nor omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM), a specific N-type blocker, affected K+-evoked Ca2+i responses. These results provide the first direct evidence that L- and probably T-type channels control the K+-induced Ca2+ influx in both types of sensory cells.
Reappearance of activity in the vestibular neurones of labyrinthectomized guinea-pigs is not delayed by cycloheximide.	1. In mammals, unilateral labyrinthectomy induces an immediate depression of the resting discharges in the neurones of the ipsilateral vestibular nuclei. Later on, a spontaneous restoration of this activity occurs. The aim of the present study was to test the possibility that protein synthesis could be involved in the start of this process in the guinea-pig. 2. Cycloheximide (CHX), a protein synthesis inhibitor, was injected intramuscularly 1 h before (30 mg kg-1) and 5 h after (15 mg kg-1) labyrinthectomy. 3. In a first group of animals, CHX was found to induce an inhibition of protein synthesis at levels ranging from 71 to 93% for 9 h after labyrinthectomy. 4. In a second group of alert animals, we studied single unit activity of second-order vestibular neurones. It was found that, in the 12-16 h post-labyrinthectomy period, at a time when restoration began in guinea-pigs not treated with CHX, the discharges in the labyrinthectomized group treated with CHX were not different from those observed in a previous study in labyrinthectomized animals not treated with CHX. 5. We conclude that protein synthesis is not required for the start of restoration of activity in the vestibular neurones deprived of their ipsilateral labyrinthine input.
