Unpartitioned versus incompletely partitioned cochleae: radiologic differentiation.	In the process of evaluating our patients, we realized that the term "Mondini deformity" was being used to describe two different types of incomplete partition of the cochlea. THE First one consisted of an unpartitioned, completely empty cochlea where the interscalar septum and entire modiolus were absent, giving the cochlea a cystic appearance; a grossly dilated vestibule accompanied this lesion. The second pathology fitted the classic description of Mondini deformity, consisting of a normal basal turn and cystic apex (where the middle and apical turns form a cystic cavity), dilated vestibule, and enlarged vestibular aqueduct. This study was planned to investigate the differences between the two types of incomplete partition for inner ear malformations based on radiologic features.
Detailed structural analysis of the petrous bone using high-resolution thin-layer computerized tomography. 1. Sensitivity of substructural demonstration using a standardized study technic]	High-resolution CT, using fine sections, is a valuable method for radiological examination of the petrous bone. A standardized method of examination using the orbitomeatal and coronary plane is adequate for detailed screening of the petrous bone and shows almost all structures with high accuracy. The sensitivity of the method for showing 35 sub-structures of the inner and middle ear was investigated by examining 40 petrous bones which were normal clinically and radiologically, using the orbito-meatal and coronary planes. The radiation dose to the lens is less than from pluri-directional tomography. For special problems and for demonstrating very small structures, cuts may have to be performed in other planes, suitable for the required topography.
The vestibular aqueduct--tomographic evaluation in Meniere's disease--a preliminary report.	Frontal and off-lateral complex motion tomography was performed in 72 consecutive patients selected for endolymphatic sac surgery for episodic vertigo or sensorineural hearing loss. They were selected for this operation because of a fluctuating hearing loss. The morphology and visualization of the vestibular aqueduct and the degree of periaqueductal pneumatization were correlated with surgical results and the presence of bilateral disease. The surgical results were evaluated with use of the classification of the American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology. Computer analysis was performed on the data for vestibular aqueduct radiographic anatomy and surgical results or bilateral disease. There was no correlation between visualization or morphology of the vestibular aqueduct and surgical results or presence of bilateral disease.
