Veterans Administration--Grants to states for construction of state home facilities. Final regulations.	These regulations delete the requirements of war service in the determination of veterans' eligibility for State home care and in the determination of the number of State nursing home beds in each State for construction purposes. In addition, [1] the term "construction" has been expanded to include construction of new domiciliary buildings to provide care in State homes, [2] the term "cost of construction" has been expanded to include the amount found necessary for a construction project, [3] the percentage of bed occupancy has been amended to allow no more than 25 percent occupancy by non-veterans in buildings constructed with grant funds, [4] general standards of construction and equipment have been expanded to include domiciliary and hospital facilities, and [5] the recapture period for construction funds, when a facility is no longer operated for the purpose for which the grant was made, is now no greater than 20 nor less than seven years based on the magnitude of the project and the grant amount involved. Also, the number of beds required to provide adequate nursing home care to veterans residing in each State has been adjusted. These regulations implement legislation.
Veterans Administration--VA Consumer Affairs Program. VA consumer program.	The Veterans Administration Consumer Affairs Program addresses the ongoing Agency consumer activities and integrates the programs of the Departments of Medicine and Surgery, Veterans Benefits, and Memorial Affairs. The primary goal of this program is to ensure that veterans, their dependents, and their surviving beneficiaries have the opportunity to provide input to the decision making process. The program described complies with the requirements established by Executive Order 12160 on Federal Consumer Programs.
Veterans Administration--Medical benefits; readjustment counseling for Vietnam era veterans. Final regulations.	The VA [Veterans Administration] has added regulations to comply with the Veterans Health Care Amendments of 1979. This law mandates that the VA provide readjustment counseling and related mental health services to Vietnam era veterans. The law allows for the providing for these services through contract sources. Contractors will be required to meet quality and effectiveness standards established by the Veterans Administration before they can be authorized to provide services.
Veterans Administration--Veterans' benefits; institutional awards. Final regulation.	The Veterans Administration has amended one of its regulations to increase the amount of monthly compensation, pension or retired pay payable to a chief officer of a non-VA institution on behalf of an incompetent veteran patient from $50 to $60. The need for this action results from enactment of the Veterans' and Survivors' Pension Improvement Act of 1978 which increased the amount of benefits payable to hospitalized veterans without dependents from $50 to $60.
Review of benefit claims decisions. Final rule.	This document concerns the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) adjudication regulations. We are adding new provisions to allow any claimants who file a timely Notice of Disagreement to obtain a de novo review of their claims at the Veterans Service Center level before deciding whether to proceed with the traditional appeal process. This is intended to provide a more efficient means for resolving disagreements concerning claims.
Abuse of war zone detainees: veterans' perceptions of acceptability.	We assessed detainee abuse acceptance and variables associated with it. Outpatients from a veterans' hospital were administered questionnaires with three increasingly severe scenarios of a U.S. soldier abusing a detainee. Three questionnaire versions differed in the final line of each version's scenarios, describing abuse either as: soldier initiated, superior ordered, or wrong by a "whistleblower" soldier. Three hundred fifty-one veterans participated, 80% with service during the Vietnam War. Zero tolerance for abuse--"completely unacceptable" regardless of who the detainee was--increased with abuse severity (16% for exposure, 31% for humiliation, and 48% for rape of detainee) and with soldier initiation. The strongest, most consistently significant odds were of depressed veterans, veterans with comorbid depression/post-traumatic stress disorder, and men being approximately 2, 3, and 4 to 20 times more tolerant of abuse than those without depression/post-traumatic stress disorder and women, respectively. There may be potential value to using similar scenario-based questionnaires to study active duty military perceptions of detainee abuse. Results may inform prevention policies.
Traumatic injury protection rider to Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance. Final rule.	This document adopts with changes a Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) interim final rule that implemented section 1032 of Public Law 109-13, the "Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Tsunami Relief, 2005." Section 1032 of Public Law 109-13 established an automatic traumatic injury protection rider to Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance (SGLI) for any SGLI insured who sustains a serious traumatic injury that results in certain losses as prescribed by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in collaboration with the Secretary of Defense. Section 1032(a) is codified at 38 U.S.C. 1980A. Section 1032(c)(1) of Public Law 109-13 also authorized the payment of this traumatic injury benefit (TSGLI) to members of the uniformed services who incurred a qualifying loss between October 7, 2001, and the effective date of section 1032 of Public Law 109-13, i.e., December 1, 2005, provided the loss was a direct result of injuries incurred in Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) or Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF). This document modifies Sec. 9.20 of the interim rule to provide that a service member must suffer a scheduled loss within 2 years after a traumatic injury, rather than one year as provided in current Sec. 9.20(d)(4). This document also amends Sec. 9.20(d)(1) to clarify that a service member does not have to be insured under SGLI in order to be eligible for TSGLI based upon incurrence of a traumatic injury between October 7, 2001, and December 1, 2005, if the member's loss was a direct result of injuries incurred in OEF or OIF.
Schedule for rating disabilities; Appendices A, B, and C. Final rule.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is revising its Schedule for Rating Disabilities, Appendices A, B, and C to include all current diagnostic codes. Appendix A is also amended to include all the diagnostic code historical information since the last review.
Vocational rehabilitation and Employment program--initial evaluations. Final rule.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) adopts as a final rule in this document a proposed rule concerning initial evaluations of individuals who apply for vocational rehabilitation and employment benefits. This final rule is intended to reflect changes in law regarding initial evaluations, to reflect VA's interpretation of applicable law and its determinations of procedures appropriate for use in the initial evaluation, and to improve readability.
Herbicide exposure and veterans with covered service in Korea. Final rule.	This document adopts as a final rule the Department of Veterans Affairs' (VA) proposal to amend VA adjudication, medical, and vocational rehabilitation and employment regulations to incorporate relevant provisions of the Veterans Benefits Act of 2003. Specifically, this document amends VA regulations regarding herbicide exposure of certain veterans who served in or near the Korean demilitarized zone and regulations regarding spina bifida in their children. It also amends VA's medical regulations by correcting the Health Administration Center's hand-delivery address.
Incarceration among male veterans: relative risk of imprisonment and differences between veteran and nonveteran inmates.	Using data from national surveys of jail and prison inmates conducted in 2002 and 2004, the authors found that male veterans in the age group that entered military service in the early years of the All Volunteer Force (AVF) were at greater risk of incarceration than nonveterans of similar age and ethnicity, whereas veterans who enlisted in later years of the AVF had less risk of incarceration than nonveterans. Although White veterans tend to have greater risk of incarceration than nonveteran Whites, Black and Hispanic veterans were at less risk than their nonveteran peers, although they are at greater risk than White veterans. These patterns are best explained by changes over time and in differential effects across racial/ethnic groups of recruiting practices, accession standards, and in civilian employment opportunities rather than combat trauma or other adverse experiences in the military. For example, reductions in the relative risk for incarceration of veterans during the AVF appear to generally result from increases in recruit qualifications and socioeconomic status due to greater military pay, improved skill in recruiting, and higher accession standards.
Autopsies at VA expense. Final rule.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is amending its regulation that governs the performance of autopsies on veterans. This final rule updates outdated cross-references to a statute that previously authorized certain outpatient and ambulatory care, which included post-hospitalization autopsies, and its implementing regulation. This final rule clarifies that consent for an autopsy is implied if a known surviving spouse or next of kin has either not responded to a VA request for permission or has not inquired as to the decedent for 6 months before the decedent's death. This final rule modifies the current regulation to make the laws of the jurisdiction in which the autopsy will be performed the controlling laws for purposes of determining who has authority to grant permission for the autopsy. This final rule also clarifies the authorized purposes of a VA autopsy. Lastly, this final rule clarifies that the authority to order an autopsy includes transporting the body at VA's expense to the place where the autopsy will be performed.
Authorization for non-VA medical services. Direct final rule.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is taking direct final action to amend its regulation governing payment by VA for non-VA outpatient care under VA's statutory authority to provide non-VA care. Under this authority, VA may contract for certain hospital care (inpatient care) and medical services (outpatient care) for eligible veterans when VA facilities are not capable of providing such services due to geographical inaccessibility or are not capable of providing the services needed. This amendment revises VA's existing regulation in accordance with statutory authority to remove a limitation on which veterans are eligible for medical services under this authority.
Contracts and provider agreements for State home nursing home care. Interim final rule.	This interim final rule amends Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) regulations to allow VA to enter into contracts or provider agreements with State homes for the nursing home care of certain disabled veterans. This rulemaking is required to implement a change in law that revises how VA will pay for care provided to these veterans and authorizes VA to use provider agreements to pay for such care. The change made by this law applies to all care provided to these veterans in State homes on and after February 2, 2013.
VA Dental Insurance Program--federalism. Direct final rule.	The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) is taking direct final action to amend its regulations related to the VA Dental Insurance Program (VADIP), a pilot program to offer premium-based dental insurance to enrolled veterans and certain survivors and dependents of veterans. Specifically, this rule will add language to clarify the limited preemptive effect of certain criteria in the VADIP regulations.
