Pediatric health care and management.	Pediatric health care is an integral part of providing for the general health needs of puppies and kittens from birth to 6 months of age. Successful rearing of puppies and kittens requires providing them with a suitable environment; the correct quantities and quality of nutrients for growth; a regular schedule of feeding, sleeping, grooming, and exercise; and the stimulus that provokes micturation and defecation. The intestinal parasites, such as hookworms, roundworms, whipworms, tapeworms, Giardia, and Cryptosporidium, occur commonly in puppies and kittens. The advantages of early-age spay/neuter far outweight the risks.
Dental diseases of puppies and kittens.	Although there are certain differences warranting specific options therapeutically in young animals, many of the basic dental principles still apply. The key is examining the oral cavity of every patient at each visit and knowing how to recognize and manage any abnormalities encountered. Providing sound oral care from the time of a patient's first visit can figure significantly in a lifelong commitment to oral health that can have a positive impact on the patient's overall health.
Pediatric dermatology.	There are a great many disorders that can affect young animals in addition to those with a hereditary component. Still, it is important to consider genodermatoses whenever a young animal presents with dermatological lesions. Fortunately, most dermatological conditions that affect young pups and kittens carry a good prognosis for diagnosis and full recovery. It is, however, important to correctly identify those animals with a poor prognosis if for no other reason than to offer supportive genetic counseling to minimize the risk of the trait being perpetuated.
Pediatric intensive care.	To provide optimal care, a veterinarian in a pediatric intensive care situation for a puppy or kitten should be familiar with normal and abnormal vital signs, nursing care and monitoring considerations, and probable diseases. This article is a brief discussion of the pediatric intensive care commonly required to treat puppies or kittens in emergency situations and for canine parvovirus type 2 enteritis.
Curing animals with plants: traditional usage in Tuscany (Italy).	Tuscany is an area rich in traditions, many of an ethnobotanical nature, and those of veterinary practice are of special interest. Almost a 100 different plant species are used to treat animals; sometimes old remedies are used to cure similar human ailments, other times the cure is used exclusively for veterinary treatment.
Principles of chemotherapy.	Chemotherapeutic agents can be used to increase both the length and the quality of the lives of patients with a wide variety of neoplastic diseases. The therapeutic index for many of these agents is very narrow; thus, close attention must be paid to proper dosing and timing of treatment. Proper patient selection is also critical for successful chemotherapy treatment. If the clinician is familiar with the agents being used, then toxicities can often be anticipated and then treated, or in some cases prevented, to ensure continued quality of life. The purpose of this article is to review the basic principles for the safe and effective use of various chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of neoplastic diseases.
Principles of chemotherapy safety procedures.	With the ever-increasing demand in veterinary medicine to administer chemotherapy agents, it is imperative for the practitioner as well as the support staff to follow strict guidelines for the administration and disposal of cytotoxic drugs. Because of the possible reproductive risks associated with hazardous drugs, all employees who may be pregnant or trying to become pregnant should be excluded from the process. The long-term occupational effects of these agents are not known; therefore, a standard operating procedure including storage of chemotherapy drugs, protective attire, drug preparation, administration, waste disposal/management, hazardous drug spills, and emergency measures for personal contamination should be carefully implemented and documented.
Principles and applications of radiation therapy.	Radiation therapy is emerging as a beneficial and increasingly accessible treatment option for companion animals with cancer. Various types of radiation are available with different properties that may make one more suitable than another for treating a specific tumor type. Radiation therapy can be used as the sole treatment or as part of a multimodality treatment course to result in local or locoregional tumor control, or as palliative therapy for pain control. When radiation is a potential treatment option, it should be considered early in the decision-making process to ensure that the appropriate diagnostics and other treatment modalities are considered to provide the best potential outcome. This article is intended to provide an overview of the types of radiation therapy that are available, the indications, and the potential acute and late radiation side effects.
Clinical techniques in small animal molecular oncology.	The diagnosis, staging, and treatment of tumors in veterinary as well as human oncology have traditionally incorporated elements of anatomic extent of neoplasia through various clinical and pathologic methods. These clinicopathological methods have been the basis for the development of the tumor, node, and metastasis and grading systems, which have translated into clinically significant advances over the last 20 to 30 years. Unfortunately, there continues to be significant limitations to this system when prognostication and therapeutic decisions need to be made specific to a patient. For example, completely resected and cleanly staged phenotypically identical grade II mast cell tumors in dogs can have opposing clinical outcomes. In addition, dogs or cats with identical stage and grade lymphoma can have significantly divergent responses to the same multi-agent chemotherapy protocol. Numerous nonanatomic neoplastic molecular prognostic factors have been recently identified and have the potential to improve on the presently available tumor, node, and metastasis- and grading-based systems. To date in human oncology, single nonanatomic factors have only occasionally translated into efficient and independent prognostic factors, which speaks to the heterogeneity of cancer. Therefore, the use of panels of factors have been encouraged that will allow for the development of a molecular prognostic index, which can then be used in concert with presently available systems. This review will summarize how to best utilize presently available tumor, node, and metastasis- and grading-based systems, and incorporate newly available molecular prognostic factors.
Principles of treatment for canine lymphoma.	Canine lymphoma is one of the most commonly diagnosed canine neoplasms. It is helpful to classify lymphoma anatomically, because these forms each have common histories and clinical signs. Anatomic forms include multicentric, alimentary, mediastinal, and cutaneous forms. Because lymphoma is a systemic disease, systemic chemotherapy is the most appropriate modality for its treatment. Lymphoma cells are sensitive to chemotherapy, and complete remission rates are high when these patients are treated with conventional chemotherapy. Treated dogs maintain a good quality of life, and treatment can provide resolution of many presenting signs and abnormalities. The fundamental goals of chemotherapy are to induce a durable remission and to re-induce a remission after one or more relapses. Other therapies, such as surgery and radiation therapy, are appropriate in certain situations. Prognostic factors will also be summarized.
Principles of treatment for feline lymphoma.	Lymphoma is the most commonly diagnosed neoplasm in cats. As feline leukemia virus antigenemia has decreased over the past 15 years, there has been a profound shift in the presence, signalment, and frequency of sites of feline lymphoma in North America. There is variation in anatomic classification systems, but most studies have divided lymphoma into four groups: alimentary, mediastinal, multicentric, or extranodal. Clinical signs and common differential diagnoses for each of the forms are described. Staging allows for evaluation of the extent of disease. As in the dog, lymphoma is a systemic disease in the cat, and chemotherapy is the treatment of choice for most forms. Exceptions are described. In contrast to canine lymphoma, feline lymphoma is generally more challenging and frustrating to treat than canine lymphoma. Response rates are lower, and remission duration is shorter. Fortunately, cats treated with chemotherapy tend to have less toxicity than dogs. Positive prognostic factors are feline leukemia virus-negative, clinically well at time of diagnosis, and response to therapy. Achieving a complete remission is prognostic for survival. Unfortunately, response cannot be predicted before treatment.
Principles of treatment for mast cell tumors.	Mast cell tumors (MCT) are the most common malignant cutaneous tumors that occur in dogs. They are most commonly found on the trunk, accounting for approximately 50% to 60% of all sites. MCTs associated with the limbs account for approximately 25% of all sites. Cutaneous MCTs have a wide variety of clinical appearances. Histologic grade is the most consistent prognostic factor available for dogs. MCTs located at 'nail bed' (subungual), inguinal/preputial area, and any mucocutaneous area like perineum or oral cavity carry a guarded prognosis and tend to metastasize. MCTs usually exfoliate well and are cytologically distinct. The extent of staging procedures following fine-needle aspirate cytologic diagnosis is based on the presence or absence of negative prognostic indicators. Surgery is the treatment of choice for solitary MCTs with no evidence of metastasis. Reponses rates to chemotherapy, (partial response) as high as 78% have been reported, and preliminary evidence suggests that multiagent (prednisone and vinblastine) protocols may confer a higher response rate than single-agent therapy. MCTs are the second most common cutaneous tumor in the cat. There are two distinct forms of cutaneous MCTs in the cat. The more common form is the mastocytic form, and the less common is the histiocytic form. Unlike in the dog, the head and neck are the most common sites for MCTs in the cat followed by the trunk and limbs. Cats with disseminated forms of MCT often present with systemic signs of illness, which include depression, anorexia, weight loss, and vomiting. The diagnosis and staging of MCTs in cats is similar to that in the dog. As with dogs with cutaneous MCTs, surgery is the treatment of choice. Little is known about the effectiveness of adjunctive chemotherapy options for cutaneous MCTs. Adjunctive chemotherapy does not appear to increase survival times.
Principles of treatment for mammary gland tumors.	The mammary glands are frequent locations for the development of tumors. In the dog and cat, early detection and rapid therapy are necessary to prevent both local and distant metastasis. In the dog, this disease can have a range of biologic behaviors, whereas in the cat it is almost always an extremely aggressive disease. Treatment options depend on tumor staging and can include surgery, radiation therapy, chemotherapy, or a combination. As we become better at early diagnosis and are able to implement aggressive therapy, we are becoming more and more successful in the treatment of this disease. In the following article, we will discuss current thoughts surrounding the diagnosis and treatment options for both canine and feline mammary gland tumors.
Principles of treatment for osteosarcoma.	Canine osteosarcoma accounts for 5% to 6% of all canine malignancies. A thorough workup is recommended to help clients make an educated decision about treatment options. Patients should be screened for concurrent diseases and early metastasis, as part of the diagnostic workup. Diagnostic techniques have improved to allow for more biopsy options. Once osteosarcoma is confirmed, there are many treatment options, both definitive and palliative, which can be offered to an owner. Amputation is no longer the only option that we can offer as treatment. Limb-sparing surgeries have become more common, and techniques in chemotherapy have significantly improved the median survival time in patients. Even if surgery is not an option, there are alternatives available to provide pain control and good quality of life. It is important to be versed in all the options to provide clients with the best possible recommendations.
Principles of treatment for vaccine-associated sarcomas.	In the last decade, there has been a great deal of information surrounding the etiology, diagnosis, and treatment of feline vaccine-associated sarcomas. The presence of a mass in areas used for subcutaneous or intramuscular injections should alert the clinician to the possibility of a vaccine-associated sarcoma. Early detection and subsequent treatment is paramount to limit local invasion and distant metastasis. The current data are suggesting that a team approach with multi-modality therapy is the appropriate way to address this disease. In the following article, we will discuss the history/incidence, pathology, diagnosis, and current treatment options, which include a combination of surgery, radiation, and chemotherapy for vaccine-associated sarcomas.
Principles of treatment for soft-tissue sarcomas in the dog.	Soft-tissue sarcomas develop from a variety of mesenchymal tissues, but they are often considered collectively, due to similarity in clinical behavior and histologic features. These tumors are locally invasive, with poorly defined histologic margins and neoplastic cells that often infiltrate through fascial planes. In general, local recurrence is common following conservative excision. Pretreatment biopsy provides information on tumor type and grade, which will allow the clinician to properly plan for an aggressive first surgery. Adopted from human medicine, the canine histopathologic grading system is predictive. Specifically, mitotic rate is predictive for metastasis, and necrosis and mitotic rate are predictive for survival. Diagnostic imaging is useful to determine the extent of disease and for treatment planning. The most effective treatment for soft-tissue sarcomas is surgical excision. Surgery with curative intent requires preoperative biopsy, planning, and a wide first excision. Increasingly, surgery is being replaced by a combined-modality approach. Radiation therapy plays an important role in the management of soft-tissue sarcomas, but it has little role as a single treatment modality. Radiation therapy is appropriate for incompletely excised tumors or for preoperative treatment. Chemotherapy's role is most appropriate in the adjunct setting, and is mainly used to treat incompletely resected tumors, high-grade tumors, and metastatic disease.
Common paraneoplastic syndromes.	Cancer has many effects on the veterinary patient. One group of syndromes that must be paid particular attention to is the paraneoplastic diseases. These are a group of changes that occur in the body at sites distant from the actual tumor. Paraneoplastic syndromes can affect many different body systems. Paraneoplastic diseases are important to recognize for many reasons. Often the paraneoplastic change is the earliest indication of cancer and, thus, neoplasia must be included on any differential list when typical paraneoplastic changes are found in the routine medical work-up. Paraneoplastic syndromes can also be used as markers of remission. Many of the paraneoplastic changes will disappear when remission is achieved, and will reappear once the period of remission had come to an end. Identification of paraneoplastic changes is also important in that often they must be treated before treatment of the primary disease can occur. Treating the remote effects of cancer will increase quality of life. Although many different paraneoplastic syndromes exist, hypercalcemia, hypoglycemia, cachexia and anemia are the most clinically significant in the veterinary patient. Chronic treatment most commonly involves removal or treatment of the primary or inciting neoplastic process. The acute treatment of these syndromes can occur quickly. Rapid identification and treatment will allow the patient to have a better prognosis and will help to improve quality of life.
Oncologic emergencies.	Cancer can lead to emergencies either due to the primary disease, or as a result of therapy. Appropriate diagnosis and rapid treatment of these conditions can result in survival of the patient. Whether chemotherapy is implemented or not, the clinician may be presented with a patient in need of emergency stabilization. Common occurring emergencies are related to effects of the cancer, ranging from immune dysfunction due to marrow infiltration to brain herniation due to increased intracranial pressure from neoplasia. Often adverse effects secondary to chemotherapy can cause emergency situations such as sepsis. Prompt diagnosis and treatment may result in a favorable outcome. Addressed in this chapter are commonly occurring emergencies and specific stabilizing treatments.
Pericardiocentesis and principles of echocardiographic imaging in the patient with cardiac neoplasia.	Ultrasonography is a safe, noninvasive, sensitive, and specific tool for evaluation of the heart and pericardium in patients with cardiac neoplasia. In small animals, the incidence of cardiac neoplasia is low. In dogs, hemangiosarcoma and chemocdectoma are the two most common types of cardiac neoplasia. In cats, lymphosarcoma is the most common form of cardiac neoplasia. Pericardial effusion is a common and potentially life-threatening consequence of cardiac neoplasia. Pericardial effusion leads to a rise in the intrapericardial pressure, resulting in varying degrees of hemodynamic compromise. Cardiac tamponade occurs when the intrapericardial pressure equals or exceeds right ventricular diastolic filling pressures, leading to a decreased cardiac output. Pericardiocentesis is used to stabilize animals with life-threatening cardiac tamponade, and to obtain fluid samples for diagnostic evaluation. The fluid should be quantified and characterized. If the etiology of the effusion is not known, then a sample of the fluid should be submitted for fluid analysis and cytology. Serious complications associated with pericardiocentesis are rare. Complications include cardiac puncture, arrhythmias, and laceration of the tumor or coronary artery, resulting in intrapericardial hemorrhage.
Transfusion issues in the cancer patient.	Blood transfusions are a lifesaving but transient therapy used to correct deficiencies of blood cells and coagulation factors that occur in cancer patients. Anemia can occur in cancer patients as a result of hemolysis, blood loss, or bone marrow failure. The blood component most commonly recommended for the treatment of anemia is packed red blood cells. Coagulation disorders are common with hemangiosarcoma and diffuse hepatic tumors. Fresh frozen plasma is used as a source for replacement coagulation factors for the treatment of disseminated intravascular coagulation or other cancer-associated coagulopathies. Although thrombocytopenia and neutropenia can be the result of bone-marrow failure from tumor infiltration, chemotherapy, or radiation therapy, these platelets and neutrophils are rarely transfused to veterinary cancer patients. Pretransufsion testing consists of blood typing in cats, and cross matching in dogs and cats if the dog has previously been transfused. Cancer patients receiving transfusions should be monitored on a continual basis during and immediately following the transfusion to enable early identification of an adverse event, allowing the transfusion to be discontinued.
Diagnostic pathology for the cancer patient.	It is necessary to have a cooperative relationship between the clinician and the pathologist, because information from both is critical for determining the best case management and favorable prognosis. The principle roles of the veterinary pathologist are to describe the submitted tissues, to determine the nature of the tumor, and to assess completeness of surgical margins. Recently, the Council of the American College of Veterinary Pathologists (ACVP) appointed an ad hoc committee on oncology to evaluate oncologists' needs by polling members of the Veterinary Cancer Society (VCS). The committee's vision was to review morphologic, immunologic, and molecular techniques so that veterinary pathologists could meet the current and future diagnostic and prognostic needs of oncologic veterinarians. The factors determined to be most important to the VCS members in selecting a diagnostic pathology provider included, in order of importance: (1) reliability of results; (2) short turnaround-time; (3) easy access for consultation; (4) rapport with pathologist; (5) convenience of service; and (6) cost of service. This manuscript will attempt to review improved morphologic, immunologic, and molecular techniques to provide for the future diagnostic and prognostic needs of oncologic veterinarians.
Validity of Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) general test scores for admissions to colleges of veterinary medicine.	From the standpoint of test validation, veterinary medicine provides both a unique context in which to study the validity of Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) test scores and a singular opportunity to address the shortcomings typical of many GRE validity studies. This article documents a study of the validity of the GRE General Test for predicting 1st-year grade averages in a comprehensive sample of veterinary medical colleges. For each of 16 veterinary medical colleges, statistical corrections were applied to correct for the effects of range restriction in the predictors and unreliability of the criterion. When fully corrected for both range restriction and unreliability, the resulting validity coefficients were, on average,.53 for the combination of all 3 GRE General Test scores,.59 for undergraduate grade point average, and.71 for GRE scores and undergraduate grade point average together.
Potentiometric determination of acid dissociation constants (pKa) for human and veterinary antibiotics.	This work determined the acid dissociation constants (pKa) of 26 common human and veterinary antibiotics by potentiometric titration. Selected antibiotics consisted of sulfonamides, macrolides, tetracyclines, fluoroquinolones, and other miscellaneous antibiotics. After validation of analysis methods using phosphoric acid as a model compound, a second-derivative (delta2pH/deltaV2) method was primarily applied to determining pKa's from titration curves for most antibiotics due to its convenience and accuracy. For tetracyclines, however, a least-square non-linear regression method was developed to determine their pKa's because the second-derivative method cannot well distinguish the pKa,2 and pKa,3 of tetracyclines. Results indicate that the pKa values are approximately 2 and 5-7.5 for sulfonamides; 7.5-9 for macrolides; 3-4, 7-8 and 9-10 for tetracyclines; 3-4, 6, 7.5-9 and 10-11 for fluoroquinolones; while compound-specific for other miscellaneous antibiotics. The moieties corresponding to specific pKa's were identified based on chemical structures of antibiotics. In addition, the pKa's available in literature determined by various techniques are compiled in comparison with the values of this work. These results are expected to essentially facilitate the research on occurrence, fate and effects, analysis methods development, and control of antibiotics in various treatment operations.
Q fever in Ireland. A seroprevalence study of exposure to Coxiella burnettii among Department of Agriculture workers.	To estimate the risk of exposure to Coxiella burnettii among 'at risk' workers in Ireland.
Regulation of autogenous biologicals in the United States.	The U.S. Department of Agriculture's Center for Veterinary Biologics (CVB) is charged with protecting American agriculture. As part of this effort, CVB licenses manufacturers to produce special biologics for use in individual flocks or livestock herds afflicted by a particular microorganism. These special products, autogenous biologicals, are inactivated vaccines used by or under the direction of a veterinarian or USDA-approved specialist and are produced under a variety of special licensing requirements.
Veterinary autogenous vaccines.	Autogenous vaccines remain a regulatory issue. They are demanded by practising veterinarians and by animal owners and they are quite widely used, mainly in Central European Countries, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovak Republic having probably the longest tradition with these products in Central Europe. The scope given in Article 3, Para. 2 (and/or Article 4 for some countries) of Directive 2001/82/EC applies to these products in the Acceding Countries. As these products are exempt from the harmonised regulation at the EU level, they are regulated by individual countries, the regulation varying from practically no regulatory measures in certain countries to a quite complex and demanding regulation in the other countries. Both risks and benefits are related to these products and they shall be taken into account when regulatory measures are considered. The major risks related to veterinary autogenous vaccines relate to possibility of transmission of TSE agents or other viral, bacterial and/or fungal contaminants. As appropriate and well balanced regulation of these products is deemed necessary, considering the risks related to these products, and based on the fact that national regulatory measures could be considered as a trade barrier under certain circumstances, harmonisation of the key issues or legal admission of the nationally based regulatory measures, including movement of these products from the other Member States, shall be laid down in the EU legislation. The veterinary autogenous vaccines complying with basic quality and safety requirements are thus a very useful tool in the animal health and welfare management but their use should be restricted to situations where there is no authorised veterinary medicinal product available and veterinary autogenous vaccines must not be allowed to replace good farming or veterinary practices.
Current concepts and future approaches to the development of autologous/autogenous vaccines for veterinary use.	Current classification of autologous/autogenous (A/A) vaccines is commonly based on the concept of strain/antigen specificity associated with targeted treatment of a restricted number of animals. However, fulfilling these two conditions is not sufficient for immune-veterinary immunebiologicals to be excluded from the provisions of Directive 2001/82/EC. Indeed, non-inactivated A/A vaccines are not automatically considered out of the scope of the community code relating to veterinary medicinal products, in particular to immune-biologicals. As a major consequence of the "regulatory" exclusion from the requirements of EU rules, A/A vaccines can be usually manufactured and distributed without having obtained a marketing authorization by the competent authority of a Member State. Furthermore, strain specificity enables veterinarians to consider the use of these vaccines in quite a large variety of epidemiological circumstances where no "conventional" vaccines are yet available or are considered efficacious. In addition, in contrast to "conventional" vaccines, which are considered exclusively as a preventive tool against infectious diseases, A/A vaccines can also be used to treat "continuing" infections. Although the limited scientific value of these products and the poor investigations of the effector mechanisms involved are widely recognized, their use is still claimed in conditions where disorders in the immune system are suspected. Today, a more appropriate definition of A/A vaccines is one that takes into account their historical tradition and practical use, such as stable- or herd-specific vaccines, custom ("..ized") vaccines, therapeutic vaccines, pharmavaccines, vaccines used for biological therapy, etc. Although acknowledging the "regulatory autonomy" of A/A vaccines versus "conventional" vaccines, here it will be presented as an overview of the necessary points to consider, to guarantee an acceptable standard in the development and control of this particular category of veterinary immune-biologicals.
Vaccines for minor use and minor species (MUMS)--industry's views.	Over the past 30 years the importance of vaccines for minor use and minor species has changed for multinational animal health companies. The major reasons for this are being reviewed, with a particular focus on technical, financial and business aspects. Key regulatory obstacles to the development of new products for minor uses and minor species are identified, and examples of vaccines falling into the various categories are provided. A number of proposals are offered with the intention of resolving the medicines availability problem between all the stakeholders involved. Finally, based on the presented scientific and regulatory considerations, ideas are shared as to where the legal and economical framework would need to change to reach a viable solution.
Minor species/minor indications: legal provisions, definition criteria and policies to be considered.	The problem of availability of immunological products in minor species and minor indications/uses is complex and should be well defined. Data for species are available, but not for minor uses. "Case-by-case" decisions should be avoided, as far as possible. The following categories can be recognized: (a) a vaccine has not been authorized anywhere; (b) a vaccine is authorized for major species/indications only; (c) an authorized vaccine exists in another Member State and (d) a vaccine has been withdrawn. Old, well established products, with limited data for an updated dossier could be the problem in categories "c" and "d". Proposed measures and incentives include: "cascade" (not recommended), human orphan-like drug policy, provisional authorization, acceptance of bibliographical data (if justified), procedural and financial assistance. Standards of quality, safety and efficacy cannot be minimized, but specific tests can be considered.
Vaccines for minor use and minor species: technical difficulties to solve and consequences in legal definitions.	To identify the difficulties of the problem and to try to find some solutions with their consequences in legal provisions, different aspects have to be considered: the possible definitions of minor species and minor indications and the limits of such definitions, the present applicable directives and possible modifications induced by extrapolation of technical results, by reduction of requirements. According to the complexity of the problem, a pragmatic approach with a certain flexibility, founded on a case-by-case assessment, seems to be necessary. The basis of the CVMP position paper regarding the availability of products for minor uses and minor species mainly focused on medicinal products and MRLs is interesting to consider in the case of vaccines, in the light of technical requirements of Title II of EU Directive 2001/82/EC. Even if definitions of minor species and minor uses are needed to give a legal basis for the problem, they have limits and some examples will be given. Reduction of requirements and extrapolation seem possible in a relatively easy way when data are available for major use and major species. A reduction of requirements is much more difficult to set up when such data are not available. Requirements for quality, safety and efficiency will be assessed including the indications of notifiable diseases. When all these aspects have been considered, it is essential to avoid a disharmonised approach from the National Regulatory Authorities. So, the possibilities of a specific legal framework on << Minor Uses and Minor Species >> and a centralised procedure for marketing authorisations have to be discussed.
General concepts in zoonotic disease control.	It is unlikely that human beings acquire a zoonotic infection from healthy cats without ectoparasites. The benefits of cat ownership to human mental health are well established. Veterinarians and physicians should work together closely to provide accurate information to cat owners so that logical decisions concerning cat ownership can be made by the owner.
The perception of veterinary medicine in the print media]	Between January 2000 and October 2003, a print media data bank on published contributions was screened for the German key words "Tierarzt/Tierärztin" and "Veterinär/Veterinärin" (veterinary surgeon) and related items. 267 articles have been found. Regarding the contents, the articles were characterised according to the content (VPH, surgeons, other), and the cause of the article. Regarding the surgeon part, mostly companion animals are dealt with. If it comes to VPH, primarily so called scandals such as misuse of therapeuticals or epidemics (BSE, FMD) have been reported. In the first instance these articles reflect only a temporary interest, and they do not give real insight into the daily work of the profession. As a consequence, public intelligence on veterinary medicine may be misled by such press articles, possibly generating wrong expectations in young people who might start with veterinary medicine. Institutional bodies should provide information, which covers the subject in a more realistic way in order to prevent a wrong understanding of the profession and to offer the whole scope of the public functions of veterinary medicine.
A review of equine dental disorders.	Equine dentistry is a very important but until recently rather neglected area of equine practice, with many horses suffering from undiagnosed, painful dental disorders. A thorough clinical examination using a full mouth speculum is a pre-requisite to performing any equine dental procedure. Common incisor disorders include: prolonged retention of deciduous incisors, supernumerary incisors and overjet--the latter usually accompanied by cheek teeth (CT) overgrowths. Overjet can be surgically corrected, but perhaps should not be in breeding animals. In younger horses, traumatically fractured incisors with pulpar exposure may survive by laying down tertiary dentine. Loss or maleruption of incisors can cause uneven occlusal wear that can affect mastication. Idiopathic fractures and apical infection of incisors are rare. The main disorder of canine teeth is the development of calculus of the lower canines, and occasionally, developmental displacements and traumatic fractures. The main indications for extraction of "wolf teeth" (Triadan 05s) are the presence of displaced or enlarged wolf teeth, or their presence in the mandible. Developmental abnormalities of the CT include; rostral positioning of the upper CT rows in relation to the lower CT rows--with resultant development of focal overgrowths on the upper 06s and the lower 11s. Displaced CT develop overgrowths on unopposed aspects of the teeth and also develop periodontal disease in the inevitable abnormal spaces (diastemata) that are present between displaced and normal teeth. Diastemata of the CT due to excessive developmental spacing between the CT or to inadequate compression of the CT rows is a common but under diagnosed problem in many horses and causes very painful periodontal disease and quidding. Supernumerary CT mainly occur at the caudal aspect of the CT rows and periodontal disease commonly occurs around these teeth. Eruption disorders of CT include prolonged retention of remnants of deciduous CT ("caps") and vertical impaction of erupting CT that may lead to large eruption cysts and possibly then to apical infections. Disorders of wear, especially enamel overgrowths ("enamel points"), are the main equine dental disorder and are believed to be largely due to the dietary alterations associated with domestication. If untreated, such disorders will eventually lead to more severe CT disorders such as shearmouth and also to widespread periodontal disease. More focal dental overgrowths will develop opposite any CT not in full opposition to their counterpart, e.g., following maleruption of or loss of a CT. Because of the great length of reserve crown in young (hypsodont) CT, apical infections usually cause infection of the supporting bones and depending on the CT involved, cause facial swellings and fistulae and possibly sinusitis. Diagnosis of apical infection requires radiography, and possibly scintigraphy and other advanced imaging techniques in some early cases. When possible, oral extraction of affected CT is advocated, because it reduces the costs and risks of general anaesthesia and has much less post-extraction sequelae than CT repulsion or buccotomy.
The state of veterinary epidemiology and economics.	Recent developments in the fields of veterinary epidemiology and economics are critically reviewed and assessed. The impacts of recent technological developments in diagnosis, genetic characterisation, data processing and statistical analysis are evaluated. It is concluded that the acquisition and availability of data remains the principal constraint to the application of available techniques in veterinary epidemiology and economics, especially at population level. As more commercial producers use computerised management systems, the availability of data for analysis within herds is improving. However, consistency of recording and diagnosis remains problematic. Recent trends to the development of national livestock databases intended to provide reassurance to consumers of the safety and traceability of livestock products are potentially valuable sources of data that could lead to much more effective application of veterinary epidemiology and economics. These opportunities will be greatly enhanced if data from different sources, such as movement recording, official animal health programmes, quality assurance schemes, production recording and breed societies can be integrated. However, in order to realise such integrated databases, it will be necessary to provide absolute control of user access to guarantee data security and confidentiality. The potential applications of integrated livestock databases in analysis, modelling, decision-support, and providing management information for veterinary services and livestock producers are discussed.
Clinical pharmacokinetics in veterinary medicine.	Veterinary and human pharmacology differ principally in the range of species in which drugs are used and studied. In animals, as in humans, an understanding of the dose-effect relationship can be obtained by linking pharmacokinetic behaviour with pharmacodynamic information. Studies of different classes of drugs support the assumption that the range of therapeutic plasma concentrations in animals is generally the same as in humans. The requirement for species differences in dosage or administration rate (dose/dosage interval) may be attributed to variations in pharmacokinetic behaviour or pharmacodynamic activity, or both. When administering a drug orally, the bioavailability from a dosage form can vary widely. This is particularly the case between ruminant animals (cattle, sheep and goats), horses and carnivorous species (dogs and cats). Species variations in bioavailability can be avoided by parenteral administration. Formulation of parenteral preparations and location of intramuscular injection site can, at least in horses and cattle, influence bioavailability. Comparative pharmacokinetic studies help to explain differences in absorption and disposition processes that may underlie species variations in response to fixed dosages of a drug. Certain marker substances are useful in quantifying the activity of metabolic pathways or efficiency of excretion processes. Prediction of preslaughter withdrawal times in food-producing animals represents an application of pharmacokinetics in the field of drug residues. The drug residue profile can be obtained by combining fixed dose pharmacokinetic studies with measurement of drug concentrations in selected tissues and organs of the body. This approach offers an economical advantage in that fewer animals are required for residue studies. In domestic animals, as in humans, the disposition of most drugs can be interpreted in terms of a 2- (generally) or 3-compartment open model. Species variations in pharmacokinetic behaviour of a drug are usually attributed to differences in the rate of elimination rather than distribution and metabolism of the drug, although the principal metabolic pathway may differ. With certain notable exceptions, the herbivorous species (horses and ruminant animals) metabolise lipid-soluble drugs more rapidly than carnivorous species (dogs and cats). Humans metabolise drugs slowly in comparison with animals. Half-life values reflect this; insufficient data are available to base interspecies comparison on mean residence time. Intrinsic hepatic clearance of phenazone (antipyrine) [microsomal oxidation] in humans is approximately one-seventh of that in domestic animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Radiation exposure of the hands and feet during x-ray studies in small animals]	In early years of radiology, many severe radiation injuries in radiologists were registered. Unfortunately, there are still cases of skin lesions of the hands of veterinarians. The main reason for this is careless handling during the examination. First of all the veterinarian should try to stay out of the primary beam. In addition, he must be aware that lead gloves are no protection against primary rays. In contrast, the risk of placing the feet in the primary beam is relatively low. Monitoring of radiation shows, that, if veterinarians are aware of the hazards, there is no danger of radiation damage. Advice for reducing the exposure dose to the hands is given.
Human infection with B virus following a needlestick injury.	A 26-year-old veterinary technician who became infected with B virus at the site of a needlestick injury is described. After the patient was treated with intravenous acyclovir, all cultures became negative for B virus and have remained so during treatment with oral acyclovir. The literature on infections due to B virus in humans is reviewed, and a detailed discussion of the various aspects of this simian herpesvirus is presented.
Results of magnetic resonance imaging in 14 cats with meningoencephalitis.	Medical records and magnetic resonance (MR) images of 14 cats with inflammatory diseases affecting the central nervous system (CNS) were reviewed retrospectively. Cases included eight cats with feline infectious peritonitis and two cats with toxoplasmosis. Abnormalities affecting the CNS were observed in MR images in 10 (71%) cats. Intracranial lesions appeared as slightly hypointense foci in T1-weighted images in two (14%) cats, as hyperintense foci in T2-weighted images in seven (50%) cats and as hyperintense foci after intravenous administration of a gadolinium-based contrast medium in 10 (71%) cats. In six cats with lesions in T1- and/or T2-weighted images, additional lesions were visible in T1-weighted images obtained after gadolinium-based contrast medium administration. In three cats, lesions were visible only after contrast medium administration. In our study, MR imaging (MRI) did not appear to detect all cases of CNS inflammation in the population of cats with inflammatory cerebrospinal fluid (CSF); however, MRI adds information about the sites and morphology of intracranial lesions that should help to distinguish between neoplasia and inflammatory conditions and, possibly, between different inflammatory conditions.
Compassion fatigue and the veterinary health team.	Although the term "compassion fatigue" is often used interchangeably with the term "burnout", they are two different concepts. Compassion fatigue stems from an overcommitment to work that involves caring for others and is considered by some to be a kind of secondary posttraumatic stress disorder. Because they often invest themselves deeply in the animals they care for, veterinarians, technicians, and other members of an animal health team may be particularly vulnerable to compassion fatigue. This article summarizes the current state of knowledge about compassion fatigue, describes its symptoms, and suggests ways to prevent or overcome it.
Pesticides and the intoxication of wild animals.	Pesticides are widely used to control agricultural pests. Unfortunately, because of their biological activity, they may have detrimental effects on nontarget species. Acute toxicity, resulting in death, is reported worldwide. Although chronic and indirect effects may be even more hazardous for animal populations on a long-term basis, they are usually evaluated as parts of research programs. The purpose of this paper was to review the wildlife-poisoning surveillance systems and their results regarding the circumstances of exposure of wild animals, the pesticides involved and the species exposed. Most data are retrieved from the British and French pesticide poisoning surveillance systems in wildlife, with some data from other European structures.
Retrospective study of noroviruses in samples of diarrhoea from cattle, using the Veterinary Laboratories Agency's Farmfile database.	A collaborative study was undertaken by the Veterinary Laboratories Agency (vla) and the Royal Veterinary College (rvc) to determine the prevalence of bovine noroviruses in cattle with diarrhoea. Samples of bovine diarrhoea were provided by the vla from routine diagnostic submissions and a reverse transcription-pcr was used by the rvc to detect the viruses. Epidemiological information about the samples was provided retrospectively by the Farmfile database. Noroviruses were detected in 44 (11 per cent) of the 398 samples tested, and Farmfile data were used to investigate the differences between the positive and negative animals.
Prevention and control of avian influenza: the need for a paradigm shift in pandemic influenza preparedness.	Avian influenza presents both challenges and opportunities to leaders around the world engaged in pandemic influenza preparedness planning. Most resource-poor countries will be unable to stockpile antivirals or have access to eventual human vaccines for pandemic flu. Preparedness plans, directed at controlling avian influenza at the source, enable countries simultaneously to promote national and global health, animal welfare and international development. Improving the veterinary infrastructure and capacity of resource-poor countries is one way to prevent potential pandemic flu deaths in resource-rich countries. In this article, Amanda Martinot, James Thomas, Alejandro Thiermann and Nabarun Dasgupta argue that national health leaders need to consider more comprehensive strategies that incorporate veterinary surveillance and improvements in veterinary infrastructure for the control of avian influenza epizootics as part of national pandemic preparedness planning. This, they argue, will require a shift in attitude, from thinking in terms of preparation for an inevitable pandemic to pre-emption of the potential pandemic through prevention measures in the animal population.
Occupational zoonoses in animal husbandry and related activities.	The fact that people working with animals or their products may contract some infections has been known for centuries, before the introduction of the concept of zoonoses. Only recently, at least in Italy, was the prevention of occupational risks taken into account by legislation in spite of the fact that some zoonoses of livestock are of noticeable socio-economic importance. Nowadays some factors such as new production technologies, trade globalization, movements of people, changes in working conditions, are generating new zoonotic and occupational risks, some of which are considered re-emerging. The prevention of occupational zoonoses must be implemented jointly by both veterinary and medical services through prevention and epidemiological surveillance of human and animal health, risk evaluation, diagnosis of infections and working safety. Hopefully, we expect that in the future there will be better interdisciplinary collaboration and that legislation be timely tailored to the need to safeguard working health and safety.
Multidisciplinary collaboration in veterinary public health.	Multidisciplinary collaboration has been recognised necessary for centuries and has a long tradition. It is supported by solid bases, and is required to control a number of risk factors. Its practice encounters difficulties in various critical points. At present, the models of collaboration provided by the activities of the WHO/Mediterranean Zoonoses Control Centre and by the Med-Vet-Net network of the European Community represent relevant examples.
Wildlife, environment and (re)-emerging zoonoses, with special reference to sylvatic tick-borne zoonoses in North-Western Italy.	Over the last century, changes in land-use, modification of agriculture-livestock production systems, disruption of wildlife habitats, increase of human activities, higher frequency of international and intercontinental travels, wider circulation of animals and animal products have contributed to alter the distribution, presence and density of hosts and vectors. As a result, the number of emerging and reemerging diseases, including zoonoses, have greatly increased. Some infectious pathogens, originated in wild animals and/or maintained in sylvatic environments, have become increasingly important worldwide for their impact on wildlife, human health, livestock and agricultural production systems. In this paper, a synthesis of the information available on selected zoonoses of wildlife origin is given, with special reference to sylvatic tick-borne zoonoses in North-western Italy.
Availability of veterinary medicinal products for food producing minor animal species in the Mediterranean area.	In its historic role, the Mediterranean used to be the unifying element of heterogenic cultures, economies and societies surrounding its three continents' borders. For the benefit of the leading idea laying behind the present paper and in order to reinforce its original role, the whole Mediterranean area has been deliberately considered as a geographic and legislative unicum relating to MUMS. Such an acronym, well established either in EU countries and internationally, stands for Minor Use/Minor Species and is generally accepted in scientific and regulatory debates to incorporate any reference to a non-core market of a veterinary medicinal product or to an animal species that, conventionally, has not been considered as a major one. Difficulties to develop and market new products have resulted in an internationally recognized severe shortage of drugs for MUMS and, as a consequence, in unacceptable animal suffering, loss of animal life, and financial loss to farm industry. Furthermore, inadequate treatment of sick animals may increase health risks to humans as well as other animals.
The challenges for surveillance and control of zoonotic diseases in urban areas.	The world is rapidly changing in many aspects concerning veterinary medicine, and man-animal relationships in urban areas represents a real challenge for the profession. Unlike the vertical approach of the academic teaching tradition, veterinary urban hygiene needs a strong holistic-epidemiologic support. Year by year, new animals, new animal uses, new fashions, new zoonoses, and new problems appeared amplified by media with the duty of the public veterinary services to solve them. The practical experience of many years of these continuous challenges is now concentrated on a new health sector: urban veterinary hygiene that now calls for a multidisciplinary and intersectoral collaboration with other professional categories to guarantee human, animal and environment health.
Standardization or tailorization of veterinary vaccines: a conscious endeavour against infectious disease of animals.	Protecting animals from infection is a major obligation of every veterinarian's work in order to preserve animal welfare while assuring human health. Highly infectious animal diseases can reduce the performances of food producing animals and may have a great economical impact on many industries. Some animal diseases can be transmitted to humans, and control of these types of diseases, is beneficial to public health. In the wild, animal populations reduced by disease can dramatically affect the ecological balance of an area. Vaccination is one part of an effective health program as it helps to prevent disease and, in most cases, is more cost-effective than treating sick animals. Veterinarians have succeeded in greatly reducing the incidence of important diseases by taking advantage from improved technologies in vaccines production and by planning vaccination schedules based on the different characteristics of available products. Today, veterinarians can recommend and plan to use vaccines designed for a specific herd or flock or class of animals and even for individual treatments.
The role of family therapists in veterinary medicine: opportunities for clinical services, education, and research.	Marriage and family therapists (MFTs) are applying their specific skill set in a variety of arenas. A new area for collaboration is veterinary medicine. The veterinary medical profession is emphasizing the importance of non-biomedical skills such as communication skills, acknowledging that human clientele are likely to view their pets as family members, and discussing veterinarian personal well-being. Each of these trends has clear application for intervention by MFTs. A discussion of how MFTs may be uniquely positioned to assist veterinary medicine is presented. An example of collaboration between MFT and veterinary medicine at Kansas State University is highlighted. Recommendations are made for development of effective educational relationships and possible private sector collaborations.
NSAIDs and scavenging birds: potential impacts beyond Asia's critically endangered vultures.	Veterinary treatment of livestock with diclofenac, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), has caused catastrophic declines of Gyps vultures in Asia. This has highlighted a lack of knowledge on the potential impacts of NSAIDs on scavenging birds. Surveys of veterinarians and zoos document the outcomes of the treatment of over 870 scavenging birds from 79 species. As well as diclofenac, carprofen and flunixin were associated with mortality, with deaths observed in 13 and 30% of cases, respectively. Mortality was also found following treatment with ibuprofen and phenylbutazone. NSAID toxicity was reported for raptors, storks, cranes and owls, suggesting that the potential conservation impact of NSAIDs may extend beyond Gyps vultures and could be significant for New World vultures. In contrast, there were no reported mortalities for the NSAID meloxicam, which was administered to over 700 birds from 60 species. The relative safety of meloxicam supports other studies indicating the suitability of this NSAID to replace diclofenac in Asia.
Protective activity and immunogenicity of two recombinant anthrax vaccines for veterinary use.	In this study, the efficacy of two experimental vaccines against Bacillus anthracis toxinaemia was evaluated in the rabbit model. A recombinant Protective Antigen (rPA) mutant and a trivalent vaccine (TV) composed by the rPA, a inactive mutant of Lethal Factor (mLF-Y728A; E735A) and a inactive mutant of Edema Factor (mEF-K346R), both emulsified with mineral oils, were evaluated for their immunogenicity and protective activity in New Zealand white rabbits. Rabbits vaccinated subcutaneously with rPA and TV rapidly produced high level of anti-PA, anti-LF and anti-EF antibodies, which were still present 6 months later. In the efficacy test, these vaccines protected 100% of rabbits challenged with B. anthracis virulent strain 0843 one week after the vaccination. Moreover, all animals vaccinated twice with rPA and TV, resisted B. anthracis infection 6 months later. Our data indicate that rPA and TV could be good vaccine candidates for inducing protection against B. anthracis infection in target animal host. They could successfully be used in an emergency with simultaneous long-acting antibiotics to halt incubating infections or during an anthrax epidemic.
The adoption of management and husbandry procedures by Western Australian pig farmers.	A postal survey was conducted to determine the management and husbandry procedures adopted by a sample of 101 Western Australian pig farmers. Seventy seven replies were received and analysed. Over 80% of farmers vaccinated breeding stock against leptospirosis and erysipelas, 35% vaccinated against parvo virus and 15% vaccinated against Escherichia coli. Most farmers used antibiotics: 72% incorporated them into their pig diets and 60% used parenteral antibiotics. Fifty three per cent of farmers reported that they regularly used a veterinarian. Over 59% of piggeries had another piggery located within 10 km, thus increasing the possibility for disease transmission between herds. It is concluded that there is potential for veterinarians to offer advice to pig farmers, particularly on disease control measures and adoption of technological advances.
Update on adult immunization. Recommendations of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP).	This statement on adult immunization is a supplement to the "General Recommendations on Immunization" of the Immunization Practices Advisory Committee (ACIP) (1) and updates the previous supplement published in September 1984. This statement presents an overview on immunization for adults and makes specific immunization recommendations. The statement provides information on vaccine-preventable diseases; indications for use of vaccines, toxoids, and immune globulins recommended for adults; and specific side effects, adverse reactions, precautions, and contraindications associated with use of these immunobiologics. It also gives immunization recommendations for adults in specific age groups and for those who have special immunization requirements because of occupation, life-style, travel, environmental situations, and health status. This statement is a compendium of ACIP recommendations and will not be updated regularly. The ACIP periodically reviews individual immunization statements that are published in the MMWR. The reader must use the detailed, up-to-date individual statements in conjunction with this compendium to keep abreast of current information. A list of the current ACIP recommendations for specific diseases and vaccines can be found in Appendix 1.
Could a synopsis be a solution in opening up so-called 'grey' veterinary research literature?]	This paper outlines the philosophical basis of the synopsis, a concise paper in a primary journal based on a more comprehensive document (full paper or report). The author's experiences with a Dutch agricultural synopsis publishing project are summarised as well as the results of a recent comparative citation analysis. Synopses were found to be judged citable by readers, but inaccurate procedures handled by secondary information producers (abstract journals) are a confounding factor. The author suggests that a Dutch veterinary synopsis project based on unpublished research reports could be a sensible and feasible venture provided certain prerequisites are met.
Hypersensitivity in humans and exposure to veterinary drugs.	There is a small but unquantifiable risk that residues of hypersensitivity-inducing drugs may elicit hypersensitivity reactions in human consumers of food of animal origin. The levels present are unlikely to be sufficient to cause initial sensitization, and this is most likely to occur by therapeutic use in man. However, these levels may occasionally elicit hypersensitivity reactions in previously sensitized patients. The available data suggests that the incidences of such reactions are exceedingly low and the risk can be minimised by the careful use and observance of withdrawal periods. Occupational exposure may present a higher, but again unquantifiable risk which may also be reduced by the production of low-dusting formulations, by the observance of precautionary phrases, and by the use of suitable protective clothing.
The possibilities and limitations of animal dentistry in the small animal practice]	This paper points out, which dental diseases can be treated successfully in the general veterinary practice and which patients should be assigned to a veterinary dental referral practice. Furthermore, the occurrence and shape of defects in the enamel and cementum are discussed, which can be caused by incorrect use of ultrasonic scalers or sharp edges of the instrument tips.
Monitoring of selected veterinary antibiotics in environmental compartments near a composting facility in Gangwon Province, Korea.	Many studies have been recently reported that veterinary antibiotics released into the environment have a detrimental effect on humans such as the occurrence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. However, only limited information is available regarding to the release of antibiotics in environmental compartments in Korea. Objectives of this study were to evaluate the concentrations of antibiotics in water, sediment, and soil adjacent to a composting facility in Korea and to determine the dilution effects of antibiotics when released into the environment. Seven antibiotics of chlortetracycline, oxytetracycline, tetracycline, sulfamethazine, sulfamethoxazole, sulfathiazole, and tylosin were evaluated by high-performance liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry following pretreatment using solid-phase extraction to clean the samples. Results showed that the highest concentration of each antibiotic in both aqueous and solid samples was detected from a site adjacent to the composting facility. We also found that the studied water, sediment, and soil samples are contaminated by veterinary antibiotics throughout comparison with studies from other countries. However, relatively lower concentrations of each antibiotic were observed from the rice paddy soil located at the bottom of the water stream. Further research is necessary to continuously monitor the antibiotics release into ecosystems, thereby developing an environmental risk assessment.
Surveillance and control of imported animal diseases. Role of the OIE and veterinary services]	Many animal diseases have received major media attention in recent years, including foot-and-mouth disease, bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), and avian influenza. Epizootics are on the increase, notably owing to globalization, ecological upheavals, and global warming. It is estimated that three-quarters of emerging and re-emerging diseases are zoonoses, i.e. diseases that can be transmitted from animals to humans. Changes in eating habits, along with population growth and increasingly large populations at risk have all contributed to the upsurge of zoonoses. The fight against animal diseases is a major issue not only for animal health but also for human health, economics and politics. Veterinary services, whose work is recognized as an "international public good" by the World Bank, must be considered in terms of all those involved in animal health, including formal services, veterinarians and their assistants and organized livestock farmers, working together in close partnership. When veterinary services fail in a single country, it is the entire world that is threatened. Animal disease outbreaks are even more of a problem when they occur in countries that have no effective surveillance and preventive animal health network. Veterinary Services are an important instrument of public health and are necessary to protect the livestock economy. Industrialized countries must therefore help developing countries to eradicate their animal diseases, and countries with efficient veterinary infrastructures must encourage failing countries to adopt an effective early detection and rapid response system. OIE, the World Organization for Animal Health, has developed quality standards and norms for evaluating veterinary services, and provides an interactive tool (PVS, Performance of Veterinary Services) designed to facilitate their implementation. Assessments conducted by specifically trained experts allow international donors such as the World Bank to target investments where they are most needed.
Exhaled breath condensate: lessons learned from veterinary medicine.	Exhaled breath condensate (EBC) describes any sample collected by cooling exhaled breath. Because the method of condensate collection is simple, non-invasive, repeatable and does not necessarily require patient cooperation, EBC is not only an interesting, but also challenging, biological sample. Despite a period of EBC research lasting for more than 15 years, there are still many open questions with respect to EBC collection and analysis, and many biomarkers are still awaiting careful validation. In veterinary research, EBC collection has been described in conscious animals including calves, pigs, horses, cats and dogs. Numerous studies performed in these domestic animals not only contributed substantially to the current knowledge about the potentials of EBC-based diagnoses but also demonstrated pitfalls in EBC collection, analysis and interpretation. This review summarizes information about the collection of EBC and the interpretation of EBC results, particularly with respect to proteins, leukotrienes, hydrogen peroxide, urea, ammonia and pH. Published data emphasize the need to standardize approaches to produce reproducible EBC data. Quantifying the concentration of the EBC component of interest exhaled in a defined volume of exhaled breath (instead of comparing concentrations of this component analysed in liquid EBC) is an important step of standardization that might help to overcome methodological limitations deriving from the EBC collection process. Although information is based on domestic animal studies, it contributes to the general understanding in EBC research-independent of any particular mammalian species-and opens new perspectives for further studies.
A far-reaching career.	An interview with Stephen A. Felt, DVM, MPH, DACLAM, DACVPM, Attending Veterinarian, Assistant Professor, Department of Comparative Medicine, Associate Director, Veterinary Service Center, Director, Laboratory Animal Medicine Residency Program, Stanford University, Stanford, CA.
One Health in NSW: coordination of human and animal health sector management of zoonoses of public health significance.	Zoonoses of public health significance may occur in wildlife, livestock or companion animals, and may be detected by the human or animal health sectors. Of particular public health interest are foodborne, arboviral and emerging zoonoses (known/unknown, endemic/exotic). A coordinated One Health approach to the management of zoonoses in NSW uses measures including: mutually agreed intersectoral procedures for detection and response; surveillance and notification systems for defined endemic and exotic diseases; joint meetings and exercises to ensure currency of response plans; and intersectoral communication during a response. This One Health approach is effective and ensures the interests of both the human health and animal health sectors are addressed.
Influenza: One Health in action.	Influenza highlights the relevance of One Health, where experts in animal, human and environmental health combine to solve inter-related problems. Human disease due to pandemic (H1N1) 2009 influenza and avian and human disease due to influenza A/H5N1 are recent examples of new zoonoses with significant global impact. Management and prevention of influenza and other emerging infectious diseases requires the expansion and continuing support of collaborations between human and animal health experts at the clinical, diagnostic laboratory, public health, research and training levels.
Gender differences in salary and practice ownership expectations of matriculating veterinary students.	To examine gender differences in initial and long-term salary and practice ownership expectations among first-year veterinary students.
The informatics imperative in veterinary medicine: collaboration across disciplines.	Information and data management are essential to support the collaborative and interdisciplinary pursuits of an academic veterinary medicine enterprise, ranging from research conducted by individual investigators, education processes, clinical care, and outreach to administration and management. Informatics is an academic discipline that focuses on the creation, management, storage, retrieval, and use of information and data and how technology can be applied to improve access to and use of these resources. In this article, we discuss the challenges in integrating informatics across a large academic enterprise from a veterinary medicine point of view. As a case study, we describe an example program of informatics at the University of Minnesota designed to support interdisciplinary collaboration.
Reaching beyond our walls: library outreach to veterinary practitioners.	The Texas A&M University Medical Sciences Library (MSL) supports lifelong learning for Texas veterinarians and College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences (CVMBS) alumni through several ongoing outreach efforts. The MSL provides free document delivery and literature search services to practicing veterinarians in support of patient care. The MSL also responded to unique opportunities to expand services and increase its visibility through collaborations with the American Association of Equine Practitioners and CABI, provider of VetMed Resource. The MSL continues to explore ways to expand its mission-critical veterinary outreach work and market library services to veterinarians through participation in continuing education, regional meetings, and veterinary student instruction.
Lacticin 3147--biosynthesis, molecular analysis, immunity, bioengineering and applications.	The continuing problem of the emergence of multidrug resistance in pathogens has resulted in renewed efforts to identify novel antimicrobials that could be used in clinical settings. Lantibiotics are bacterially produced gene encoded antimicrobial peptides which have been the focus of extensive investigation in recent years because of their broad spectrum of activity. Lantibiotics (lanthionine-containing antibiotics), which have traditionally been regarded as antimicrobials for use in food or veterinary medicine, may provide at least part of the solution to these problems. Lacticin 3147 is a two peptide lantibiotic (consisting of the peptides Ltnα and Ltnβ) which is active at low concentrations against many pathogens. It has been the subject of extensive research, which has generated significant insights into the mechanisms of lacticin 3147 biosynthesis, immunity, structure function relationships and the consequences of molecular bioengineering. The merits of employing lacticin 3147 to control spoilage microbes as well as its potential in the elimination of food, human and veterinary pathogens have also been highlighted. Here we review the knowledge which has been gained with respect to lacticin 3147 since its discovery in 1995.
Completeness of reporting of radiation therapy planning, dose, and delivery in veterinary radiation oncology manuscripts from 2005 to 2010.	Surrounding a shift toward evidence-based medicine and widespread adoption of reporting guidelines such as the Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT) statement, there has been a growing body of literature evaluating the quality of reporting in human and veterinary medicine. These reviews have consistently demonstrated the presence of substantive deficiencies in completeness of reporting. The purpose of this study was to assess the current status of reporting in veterinary radiation oncology manuscripts in regards to treatment planning methods, dose, and delivery and to introduce a set of reporting guidelines to serve as a standard for future reporting. Forty-six veterinary radiation oncology manuscripts published between 2005 and 2010 were evaluated for reporting of 50 items pertaining to patient data, treatment planning, radiation dose, delivery of therapy, quality assurance, and adjunctive therapy. A mean of 40% of checklist items were reported in a given manuscript (range = 8-75%). Only 9/50 (18%) checklist items were reported in > or = 80% manuscripts. The completeness of reporting was best in regards to a statement of prescription radiation protocol (91-98% reported) and worst in regards to specification of absorbed dose within target volumes and surrounding normal tissues (0-6% reported). No manuscripts met the current International Commission of Radiation Units and Measurements (ICRU) dose specification recommendations. Incomplete reporting may stem from the predominance of retrospective manuscripts and the variability of protocols and equipment in veterinary radiation oncology. Adoption of reporting guidelines as outlined in this study is recommended to improve the quality of reporting in veterinary radiation oncology.
A survey of Tennessee veterinarian and physician attitudes, knowledge, and practices regarding zoonoses prevention among animal owners with HIV infection or AIDS.	To examine the attitudes, knowledge, and practices of Tennessee veterinarians and physicians engaged in clinical practice regarding the risk for and prevention of zoonoses in people with HIV infection or AIDS.
Student perceptions of an animal-welfare and ethics course taught early in the veterinary curriculum.	Animal welfare and veterinary ethics are two subjects that have been acknowledged as necessary for inclusion in the veterinary curriculum. In fact, the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) Council on Education has mandated that veterinary ethics be taught to all students in US veterinary colleges. Animal welfare was recently included in the US veterinarian's oath, and AVMA established a committee to create a model curriculum on the subject. At US veterinary colleges, the number of animal-welfare courses has more than doubled from five in 2004 to more than 10 in 2011. How and what is taught with regard to these two subjects may be as important as whether they are taught at all, and a variety of approaches and varying amounts and types of content are currently being offered on them. At Michigan State University's College of Veterinary Medicine, students were introduced to animal welfare and veterinary ethics during their first semester in a mandatory two-credit course. To assess their perception of the course, students completed an online evaluation at the end of the semester. Most students found the course to be challenging and effective and felt that they improved their ability to identify and discuss ethical dilemmas.
Natural disasters and communicable diseases in the Americas: contribution of veterinary public health.	The consequences of natural disasters on the people living in the Americas are often amplified by socio-economic conditions. This risk may be increased by climate-related changes. The public health consequences of natural disasters include fatalities as well as an increased risk of communicable diseases. Many of these diseases are zoonotic and foodborne diseases. The aim of this article is to provide an overview of the importance of natural disasters for the Americas and to emphasise the contribution of veterinary public health (VPH) to the management of zoonotic and foodborne disease risks. An analysis was conducted of natural disasters that occurred in the Americas between 2004 and 2008. Five cases studies illustrating the contributions of VPH in situations of disaster are presented. The data shows that natural disasters, particularly storms and floods, can create very important public health problems. Central America and the Caribbean, particularly Haiti, presented a higher risk than the other areas of the Americas. Two priority areas of technical cooperation are recommended for this region, namely: reducing the risk of leptospirosis and other vector-borne disease outbreaks related to floods and hurricanes and improving food safety. The contribution of different disciplines and sectors in disaster preparedness and response is of paramount importance to minimise morbidity and mortality.
Health recording in Canadian Holsteins: data and genetic parameters.	The objective of this study was to investigate if health data recorded by Canadian dairy producers can be used for genetic selection. Eight diseases are recorded by producers on a voluntary basis: mastitis, displaced abomasum, ketosis, milk fever, retained placenta, metritis, cystic ovaries, and lameness. Between 40 to 60% of all herds had to be excluded by editing procedures for each trait, assuming unreliable health recording. All analyses were carried out for first-lactation Holstein cows. The majority of disease cases occurred in the first month of lactation. Mean disease frequencies were 12.6, 3.7, 4.5, 4.6, 10.8, 8.2, and 9.2% for mastitis, displaced abomasum, ketosis, retained placenta, metritis, cystic ovaries, and lameness, respectively. Milk fever was very rare in first-lactation cows with a frequency of only 0.20%, and was, therefore, not considered in the analyses. Univariate and bivariate linear animal models were fitted. Heritabilities for mastitis, displaced abomasum, ketosis, retained placenta, metritis, cystic ovaries, and lameness were 0.02, 0.06, 0.03, 0.03, 0.02, 0.03, and 0.01, respectively. Genetic correlations between diseases were mostly positive. The strongest genetic correlations were found between displaced abomasum and ketosis (0.64) and between retained placenta and metritis (0.62). The remaining genetic correlations ranged from -0.22 (between metritis and lameness) to 0.49 (between mastitis and lameness). In agreement with the genetic correlations, the largest phenotypic correlations were found between displaced abomasum and ketosis (0.27) and retained placenta and metritis (0.14). All other phenotypic correlations were low and close to zero (0.00 to 0.06). Pearson correlations between breeding values for health traits and other routinely evaluated traits were computed, which revealed noticeable favorable relationships to direct herd life and fertility. In addition, a moderate favorable association was found between mastitis and somatic cell score. Mastitis is the most promising trait to be included in routine genetic evaluation, because it is the most recorded disease and has a high frequency and positive genetic correlations to all other health traits. Although, about 40% of all Canadian dairy producers participate in the health-recording system, a large proportion of the data are lost after data validation. Thus, dairy producers should be encouraged to keep accurate and complete health data.
Simultaneous determination of multiveterinary drug residues in pork meat by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry combined with solid phase extraction.	An LC-MS/MS method developed for simultaneous analysis of 54 veterinary drug residues of six families in pork meat samples, including sulfanilamide, nitroimidazoles, quinolones, macrolide antibiotics, lincosamides, and praziquantel. The pork meat sample was prepared by extraction with ACN, and clean-up on a C(18)  SPE cartridge. The sample was separated on a C(8)  column and eluted with ACN, methanol, and formic acid. The MS/MS detector is operated in the multiple reaction monitoring mode, acquiring two specific precursor-product ion transitions per target compound. The method showed excellent linearity (R(2)  ≥ 0.99) and high precision (relative SD, RSD ≤ 19.8%) for all compounds. The method quantification limits of 54 veterinary drug residues were in the range of 0.3-3.0 μg/kg. Recoveries for most analytes based on matrix-matched calibration in matrices were 20.9-121.0%. This method has been successfully applied for analysis of more than 100 pork meat samples from the local market; five of the 54 drugs were detected.
Veterinary dentistry: a clinician's viewpoint.	This is a clinician's view of the current state of veterinary dentistry at the level of the general practitioner across the different species. An indication of the work done and the hazards commonly encountered are covered.
Sheep farmer opinions on the current and future role of veterinarians in flock health management on sheep farms: a qualitative study.	A 2009 UK Government report on veterinary expertise in food animal production highlighted that there was insufficient herd health expertise among veterinarians and lack of appropriate business models to deliver veterinary services to the livestock sector. Approximately two thirds of sheep farmers only contact their veterinarian for emergencies and one fifth have all year round contact. The aim of the current study was to understand sheep farmers' perception, the current and future role of veterinarians in flock health management using qualitative methodology. The eligibility criteria were male farmers with a flock size of at least 200 adult sheep. Seven focus groups of farmers (n=45) stratified by three regions and two age groups (≤50 and >50) were conducted. Thematic analysis of the discussions indicated that most farmers considered and used their veterinarian as a fire-fighter, whilst other advice was gathered free of charge when the veterinarian was on the farm for other reasons (typically seeing cattle) or by telephone. A small group of farmers were using their veterinarian or a sheep consultant proactively with regular contact and found this financially beneficial. Farmers indicated that the key barriers to using a veterinarian proactively were inconsistent service, high turnover of veterinarians, lack of expertise of sheep farming among veterinarians and concern about independence of advice. Although economics was also mentioned as a key barrier to using veterinarians more proactively, most farmers did not know where they gained and lost income from their flock; there was heavy reliance on the single farm payment scheme (SPS) and very few farmers kept records from which they could investigate where there were inefficiencies in production. Overall sheep farmers considered sheep farming complex and that each farm was unique and that they themselves were the experts to manage their flock. We conclude that there is an impasse: veterinarians might need to provide consistency and wide expertise beyond knowledge of disease and a model of how flock planning would be financially beneficial but until sheep farmers keep production records flock health planning cannot be rigorous and the financial benefits cannot be evaluated. Given the reliance on SPS by farmers an alternative model would be to require farmers to keep production records to comply with SPS. This might lead to flock health planning being adopted at a faster rate and so develop the UK sheep industry and make it more environmentally sustainable by reducing waste from disease and low productivity. 
Factors influencing veterinarian referral to oncology specialists for treatment of dogs with lymphoma and osteosarcoma in Ontario, Canada.	To elucidate factors influencing practitioner decisions to refer dogs with cancer to veterinary oncology specialists.
Successful vaccines for naturally occurring protozoal diseases of animals should guide human vaccine research. A review of protozoal vaccines and their designs.	Effective vaccines are available for many protozoal diseases of animals, including vaccines for zoonotic pathogens and for several species of vector-transmitted apicomplexan haemoparasites. In comparison with human diseases, vaccine development for animals has practical advantages such as the ability to perform experiments in the natural host, the option to manufacture some vaccines in vivo, and lower safety requirements. Although it is proper for human vaccines to be held to higher standards, the enduring lack of vaccines for human protozoal diseases is difficult to reconcile with the comparatively immense amount of research funding. Common tactical problems of human protozoal vaccine research include reliance upon adapted rather than natural animal disease models, and an overwhelming emphasis on novel approaches that are usually attempted in replacement of rather than for improvement upon the types of designs used in effective veterinary vaccines. Currently, all effective protozoal vaccines for animals are predicated upon the ability to grow protozoal organisms. Because human protozoal vaccines need to be as effective as animal vaccines, researchers should benefit from a comparison of existing veterinary products and leading experimental vaccine designs. With this in mind, protozoal vaccines are here reviewed.
Small animal behavioral triage: a guide for practitioners.	Behavioral concerns are the principal cause of a weakened human-animal bond and pet relinquishment. Triaging behavioral concerns and providing early intervention may be the difference between a patient remaining in its current home or relinquishment. Prevention and intervention behavior services using a team approach may also improve pet retention through client education and appropriate assistance. Identifying and integrating qualified animal behavior professionals to assist with the hospital's behavior team ensures appropriate support is provided to the client and patient. 
The BSAVA presents its awards.	Inspiring work and exceptional contributions to veterinary medicine, surgery and practice were recognised at this year's BSAVA awards ceremony, held on April 3 as part of the association's congress in Birmingham. 
Current models in pharmacokinetics: applications in veterinary pharmacology.	Major advances in developing models for pharmacokinetic studies have been made in recent years, and different approaches can now be employed. These include the use of (1) compartmental models, (2) non-compartmental models, (3) physiological models, (4) population pharmacokinetic models, and (5) pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic models. Each of these approaches has both advantages and disadvantages. The important question of which of these is 'ideal' in veterinary pharmacokinetics has no simple answer. The selection and application of any one approach would depend on a number of factors, such as (1) the purpose of the study, (2) physicochemical properties and actions of the drug, (3) specificity and sensitivity of the analytical methodology, (4) species of the animal, and (5) availability of funds. This paper reviews the models available for pharmacokinetic studies and indicates their possible application in veterinary pharmacology.
AVMA guide for veterinary medical waste management.	Lawmakers have enacted a variety of laws and regulations to ensure proper disposal of certain potentially infectious or otherwise objectionable waste. The veterinary medical profession supports scientifically based regulations that benefit public health. In 1988, Congress passed the Medical Waste Tracking Act, a federal program that mandates tracking certain regulated waste. Several types of waste generated in the typical clinical veterinary medical practice are considered regulated veterinary medical waste. Discarded needles, syringes, and other sharps; vaccines and vials that contained certain live or attenuated vaccines; cultures and stocks of infectious agents and culture plates; research animals that were exposed to agents that are infectious to human beings and their associated waste; and other animal waste that is known to be potentially harmful to human beings should be handled as regulated veterinary medical waste. Regulated veterinary medical waste should be handled with care. It should be decontaminated prior to disposal. The most popular, effective methods of decontamination are steam sterilization (autoclaving) and incineration. Chemical decontamination is appropriate for certain liquid waste. Waste should be packaged so that it does not spill. Sharps require rigid puncture- and leak-resistant containers that can be permanently sealed. Regulated veterinary medical waste that has not been decontaminated should be labeled with the universal biohazard symbol. Generators retain liability for waste throughout the entire disposal process. Therefore, it is essential to ensure that waste transporters and disposal facilities comply with state and federal requirements. Veterinary practices should maintain a written waste management program and accurate records of regulated veterinary medical waste disposal. Contingency planning and staff training are other important elements of a veterinary medical waste management program. The guide includes a model veterinary medical waste management program; however, it does not address all the variations in state and local regulations. Veterinarians should obtain copies of state and local laws and regulations and modify AVMA's model plan to create an individualized practice plan that complies with federal, state, and local laws and regulations. State and local veterinary medical organizations should monitor state and local regulation to influence decisions that affect veterinarians and to keep their members informed of changing requirements. Veterinarians and veterinary medical organizations must stay involved so that regulations do not unfairly burden the veterinary medical profession.
AVMA guidelines for dealing with AIDS-infected persons in the veterinary workplace.	Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is a human disease; human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) does not infect animals other than nonhuman primates. Veterinarians and their employees are no more at risk by reason of their employment than are workers in offices. Cautions for health care workers do not generally apply to animal health care workers, but they are good rules to follow if it is necessary to render first aid for human injuries in the workplace. Veterinarians are advised to have properly equipped first aid kits available in case of need. Employees with HIV infection or AIDS should be treated in the same way that any other ill or disabled employee would be treated. They should be given the opportunity to continue work as long as they are able to perform most of the essential functions of their jobs. Their privacy must be respected, but if their condition becomes known, they must not be discriminated against by employers or other employees. All employees should be instructed in basic information regarding HIV infection and AIDS, so they understand what is and is not a hazard. They should also be trained to deal safely with human injuries and be informed of their rights and the rights of other employees in case one of them is infected with HIV.
Ecosystem health. IV. The National Animal Poison Information Network database as a tool for ecological risk assessment.	Toxicology is a unique discipline in human and veterinary medicine because there are orders of magnitude more toxicants available to man and animals than all known pathogenic microorganisms and parasites. The study of toxicologic responses of ecosystems to contaminants, ecoepidemiology, and the specific study of animal populations in this context, epizootiologic ecotoxicology, are concerned with identifying chemically induced causes and determining effects on and links among populations, communities, and ecosystems. Necessary activities implied by the term "epizootiologic ecotoxicology" are the systematic compilation and analysis of "health" data for ecosystem components. This concept paper describes the value and limitations of adapting methods used by the National Animal Poison Information Network (NAPINet) for epizootiologic ecotoxicology studies. It is concluded that NAPINet methodology, as part of an innovative use of population statistics and clinical measurements, could eventually be adapted into a valuable component of a standardized approach to epizootiologic ecotoxicology.
Occupational exposure to Streptococcus suis type 2.	Antibody titres to Streptococcus suis type 2 were measured with an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) in four occupational groups in New Zealand. No veterinary students, 9% of dairy farmers, 10% of meat inspectors and 21% of pig farmers were seropositive to S. suis type 2. The development of antibody to S. suis type 2 was associated with occupational contact with pigs or their meat products. Subclinical infection with S. suis type 2 appears to occur in humans and the antibody produced is of only short duration. The annual incidence of subclinical infection and seroconversion in pig farmers may approach 28%. Thus S. suis type 2 may be one of the most infectious potentially zoonotic agents present in New Zealand, although very rarely resulting in clinical disease.
Flow cytometry and its applications in veterinary medicine.	Flow cytometry is a technique for analysing and separating populations of cells (and subcellular components). The cells are generally stained with fluorescent markers (eg, fluorescent antibodies or DNA-binding dyes). Each cell is analysed individually, at high speed. Thus, assays may be performed on small samples (less than 10,000 cells). A subpopulation of interest can be separated from the remainder of the cells to a high degree of purity (up to 99 per cent). The application of flow cytometry to veterinary science is increasing and is discussed here.
The psychology of the relationship between pets, clients and veterinarians.	In our studies we were able to demonstrate that dogs and cats contribute in many ways to man's well-being and to quality of life, with regard to aspects such as general quality of life, prophylaxis, education, and therapy. Man's personality is co-determined by pets; pet animals support man and make demands on him/her and even train, influence man to a certain extent, and, in the case of physical and psychic diseases, act as remedy and cure. Pets are able to contribute to our becoming a little more humane again.
Allergy and pulmonary impairment in Iowa veterinarians.	If small animal practice exposure, including the laboratory animal situations encountered in academic and other research pursuits, is more detrimental to veterinarians than large animal practice exposure for induction of allergic respiratory disease, then preventive measures such as increased ventilation, use of high efficiency particulate filters, and wearing of masks should be encouraged to reduce allergen exposures. Migration from large animal practice, likewise, should be discouraged. Failure to migrate to low occupational allergy risk situations early enough in a veterinary career can have severe and even fatal results. If the observed respiratory disease in veterinarians is in fact due to exposure, then unfortunately, it may in some cases be progressive and not just chronic. Data which could provide criteria for predicting occupational allergy and possible related respiratory disease outcome is scant at this time and career counselling is difficult. If the veterinary occupational animal allergy data should be proven correct such results can be used to help others.
Reptiles.	Basic techniques that will allow the clinician to properly evaluate the ill reptile are discussed. How to take a complete history and a systematic approach to physical examination are emphasized. Techniques for collection of samples for clinical evaluation and selection of drugs for treating ill reptiles are reviewed briefly.
The Veterinary Drug Act and the practitioner]	The consequences of the Veterinary Medicinal Products Act to veterinary practitioners are described and assessed. Registration is favourably regarded, although there is a variety of views on directing veterinary drugs into specific channels, partly positive, partly negative. The position of the Group of Large Animal Practitioners of the Royal Netherlands Veterinary Association with regard to vaccination policy and 'mail-order veterinarians' is reported. In conclusion, a discrepancy in government policy is pointed out.
The Veterinary Drug Act, the Veterinary Practice Act and the cattle farmer]	The concept of 'local practising' will disappear in the new legislation. This will render veterinary medicine by mail order possible. From the point of view of the quality of the ultimate product, this development should be strongly rejected. The section will benefit by an expert and payable herd management programme which has as its object a justified use of drugs and a 'clean ultimate product' (healthy animals).
Survey of libraries in veterinary practice.	Responses were received to a survey of practice libraries, from 537 practices. The average practice library contained between 11 and 30 books and one or two journals. Between 50 pounds and 100 pounds was spent on books each year. Practitioners wished they had more time to read and that the literature was orientated towards practice.
Rules governing pharmaceuticals in the European Community.	In the interest of public health, the European community has progressively established common scientific criteria for the evaluation of human and veterinary medicines and harmonized the national authorization procedures. One major consequence of this has been that neither the tests and trials carried out to obtain authorization nor batch controls need be repeated within the European community. Henceforth the pharmaceutical industry may benefit from two types of procedures intended to facilitate the registration of their medicinal products in the member states. One, reserved for biotechnology/high technology medicinal products, involves community coordination prior to any national decision together with special protection against copies for ten years, irrespective of the position under patent law. The other enables firms to request the recognition by the other member states of an authorization previously granted by one member state. The experience gained from these two procedures will lead to the choice of the most appropriate European registration procedure for the next decade. In the interests of the European consumer, cooperation between the 12 member states and the Commission of the European Communities has progressively increased within the Committee for Proprietary Medicinal Products (adverse effects of medicines/pharmacovigilance) and the Committee for Veterinary Medicinal Products (residues). In association with these committees, several working groups of experts attempt to approximate and codify practices in the evaluation of the quality, safety, and efficacy of medicinal products (guidelines).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
National disasters and the veterinarian.	A general introduction detailing background information concerning the term "disaster" is presented. A discussion of pertinent legal guidelines and an overview of the possible role of the veterinarian, firstly as a paramedical assistant and secondly as a veterinary public health official, is presented.
Differences among medical professionals in their attitude toward drugs.	This study was designed to explore the characteristics of medical personnel who might be related to illicit opiate use. Physicians, veterinarians, and dentists, all professionals having relatively high access to opiates, were compared on a number of attitudinal variable relating to drugs. Group differences were observed in regard to the perceived benefit and potential danger of specific drugs. The authors advocate a focus on the role demands of the professional rather than an analysis of the personality characteristics of individuals within the profession.
Rabies in a veterinarian]	A 57-year-old veterinary surgeon developed rabies 174 days after injury during an oral palpation of a rabid cow. He had been vaccinated prophylactically with Duck embryo vaccine several months before exposure but never had his serum antibody level controlled. He died 45 days later. The prodromal and encephalitic stage lasted 5 days each. Intensive supportive medical treatment was given from the beginning of the paralytic stage. The clinical course was complicated by progredient respiratory failure, diabetes insipidus, severe hypotension, and increase of intracranial pressure. The diagnosis of rabies was confirmed by rising antibody titers prior to the patient's death.
Economic and technical considerations in the production of laboratory rodents.	Laboratory animal production costs include capital investment, operating expenses and the cost of money required to fund capital cost. Increased cost is associated with the sophistication of the building design and the degree of health monitoring required. Increasing regulations have the potential of increasing costs without improving the quality or welfare of the animals.
Economic and technical considerations in the procurement of laboratory rodents.	Research cost effectiveness is an increasing fact of life in this climate of spiraling inflation, restricted budgets, advancing technology and increased regulatory complexities. Because rodent procurement is an easily identifiable cost center, it may become a target for budgetary restriction without judicious consideration of its impact on the total research effort. If such reductions compromise sound biologic, genetic or health principles, the result may be research delays or repetition, inefficient or ineffective use of scientific personnel and increased project costs. Procurement decisions should be based on the development of specific biologic, genetic and health parameters required by the project design. Potential sources of supply should be assessed to determine compliance with these criteria. Further analysis must include an evaluation of institutional resources to determine compatibility with procurement standards over the term of the project. Only then can procurement costs be placed in proper perspective.
Concentrations of methoxyflurane and nitrous oxide in veterinary operating rooms.	The surgical rooms of 14 private veterinary practices were monitored to determined methoxyflurane (MOF) concentrations during surgical procedure under routine working conditions. The average room volume for these 14 rooms was 29 m3. The average MOF value for all rooms was 2.3 ppm, with a range of 0.7 to 7.4 ppm. Four of the 14 rooms exceeded the maximum recommended concentration of 2 ppm. Six rooms which had 6 or more air changes/hr averaged 1.1 ppm, whereas 8 rooms with less than 6 measurable air changes/hr averaged 3.2 ppm. Operating rooms that had oxygen flows of more than 1,000 cm3/min averaged 4.4 ppm, whereas those with flows of less than 1,000 cm3/min averaged 1.5 ppm. The average time spent during a surgical procedure using MOF, for all 14 facilities, was 2 hours. Nitrous oxide (N2O) concentrations were determined in 4 veterinary surgical rooms. The average N2O concentration for 3 rooms without waste anesthetic gas scavenging was 138 ppm. Concentration of N2O in the waste anesthetic gas-scavenged surgical room was 14 ppm, which was below the maximum recommended concentration of 25 ppm.
Veterinary surgeons as vectors of Salmonella dublin.	Salmonella dublin is an important bovine pathogen, causing dysentery, abortion, and death from septicaemia. S dublin dermatitis, a little-recognised occupational hazard for veterinary surgeons, does not cause serious disability or inconvenience. During a survey of brucellosis in south-west Wales four cases of S dublin dermatitis were seen in veterinary surgeons. One surgeon was reinfected three years later. On all five occasions the veterinary surgeons had not worn or had discarded polyethylene gloves. An apparently healthy cow may serve as a latent carrier of S dublin. Thus when disease starts in a closed, protected herd reactivation of infection within the herd is usually blamed and its introduction by extraneous agents considered to be unlikely. Veterinary surgeons should be regarded as potential vectors of S dublin.
VIDA II: a computerised diagnostic recording system for veterinary investigation centres in Great Britain.	"Veterinary Investigation Diagnosis Analysis" II is a computerised recording system for all the diagnoses made at 33 Government diagnostic laboratories in Great Britain. It was created in 1975 and the records of 150,000 specimens are stored on it each year. The system depends on an agreed list of 393 possible diagnoses (101 cattle, 96 sheep, 72 pigs, 71 birds and 53 for other species). Diagnostic records are sent each month to a computer centre which produces an annual record of all diagnoses made and a monthly record of the number of submissions and financial charges. The computer file can be interrogated from a terminal at the epidemiology unit Weybridge and the diagnostic records are available to research workers.
The assessment of health in casualty birds of prey intended for release.	There are legal implications in deciding when a sick or injured bird or prey is able to be released. Important considerations are the health of the bird, its relationship with man and the locality in which it is to be released. Recommendations are made in order to help veterinary surgeons tackle this problem. Criteria for assessing health are outlined and discussed.
Contribution and suggestions of the "Istituto Superiore di Sanità" to the sanitary veterinary activity in Italy.	The general functions and organization of the "Istituto Superiore, di Sanità" are described. A list of the Laboratories into which the Institute is organized is given together with their functions. Special attention is given to the Veterinary Laboratory, with a discussion on the provisions needed to enable it to perform all its duties.
Identification of the problems: proceedings of the WHO Expert Consultation on Some Veterinary Public Health Problems.	The growing development of intensive large-scale animal production units has become an essential and unavoidable trend in both the socialist and non-socialist agro-industries. This in turn has led to an increase in the risks to human and animal health because of the unique characteristics of these units. From the public health point of view surveillance should focus on four major areas: 1) the zoonoses; 2) chemical residues; 3) environmental pollution; 4) occupational diseases. The paper elaborates on these points and discusses practical action to be taken at the planning level to minimize the health risks.
Notes on the use of animals for monitoring of human health hazards.	Motivations and perequisites for the use of animals for monitoring human health hazards are discussed. Tetanus, histoplasmosis, cryptococcosis and fluorine and lead intoxications are reported as examples.
Veterinary public health activities aimed at prevention of intoxications by chemical residues in foods of animal origin. Suggestions for inspection programmes.	Practically all today's raw agricultural products have been treated or exposed to one or more agricultural chemicals or veterinary products, in order to increase food production. A tremendous amount of work has been done by veterinarians in coping with diseases and health risks due to microorganisms, parasites and other agents of biological origin. There is no doubt that veterinary services, research and educational institutions have a long and successful tradition also in dealing with problems of chemicals associated with animal and food production, processing, transportation, storage and distribution. Due to the increasing quantity and large numbers of chemicals now used in animal production and related fields, it has however become indispensable to broaden and intensify the education and training of veterinarians, as well as to ensure their participation in all sectors of this field. Veterinarians should be fully involved in the surveillance, prevention and control of intoxications by chemical residues. They are well qualified to do this. They are working continuously in the areas where exposure to animals and food may occur, possess adequate knowledge of the routes of entry of such chemicals into food chains, the fate of their residues, the health hazards involved, as well as of the toxicology, pathology, pathophysiology, and food hygiene and technology. Residues present an enormous challenge for surveillance, prevention and control in agriculture, food processing and related activities.
Veterinary public health activities aiming at prevention of chemical and other residues in food of animal origin. Action at the processing level.	The present situation regarding chemical residues in food products of animal origin is discussed. Some suggestions are given for sanitary judgement of such products and for preventive actions to be taken by the veterinary services.
Hydatidosis control in the province of Río Negro, Argentina: evaluation of the veterinary health care activities. 1]	Hydatidosis constitutes a serious Public Health problem in the Province of Rio Negro, Argentine. This situation has promoted the implementation of a Control Programme, carried out in 1979. The accumulated experience of 13 years works is presented in this study.
Veterinary drugs: disposition, biotransformation and risk evaluation.	Veterinary drugs may only be produced, distributed and administered after being licensed. This implies that, prior to marketing, a critical evaluation of the pharmaceutical quality, the clinical efficacy and the over-all pharmacological and toxicological properties of the active substances will be performed by national and/or supranational authorities. However, despite a sophisticated legal (harmonized) framework, a number of factors involved in residue formation and safety assessment remain unpredictable or dependant on the current 'state of the art' in the understanding of molecular pharmacology and toxicology. For example, drug disposition and residue formation in the target animal species may be influenced by a broad variety of physiological parameters including age, sex and diet, as well as by pathological conditions especially the acute phase response to infection. These factors affect both drug disposition and metabolite formation. Furthermore, current thinking in toxicological risk assessment is influenced by recent developments in molecular toxicology and thus by an increased but still incomplete understanding of the interaction of a toxic compound with the living organism. General recognized principles in the evaluation of potential toxicants are applied in the recommendation of withdrawal times and the establishment of maximum residue limits (MRL values). Apart from toxicological-based assessment, increasing awareness is directed to other than toxicological responses, especially the potential risk of effects of antimicrobial residues on human gastrointestinal microflora. Thus, the methodology of risk assessment is discussed in the context of the recently established legal framework within the European Union.
Melanin as an adsorbent for drug residues.	The binding of seven veterinary drugs (clenbuterol, chlorpromazine, diethylstilbestrol, 19-nortestosterone, salbutamol, salicylic acid and trenbolone) to melanin from Sepia officinalis was investigated. Basic and hydrophobic drugs were the most strongly bound. Desorption by ethanol was complete for neutral drugs but only partial for the basic drugs, which suggests that binding of the latter involves an ionic component. A method of synthesizing melanin in an immobilized form (melanin-PS) on the surface of porous silica was developed. When the drug binding properties of melanin-PS were investigated, its capacity to bind the basic drug clenbuterol was found to be higher (5.9 nmol mg-1) than that for the neutral hydrophobic drug 19-nortestosterone (0.56 nmol mg-1); for both drugs the attainment of binding equilibrium with melanin-PS was relatively rapid (< 5 min). By virtue of its binding kinetics, high capacity and mechanical robustness, melanin-PS offers potential for use in chromatography or solid-phase extraction and may additionally enable modelling of drug-melanin interactions.
In vitro studies on the metabolism of antipyrine in the pig and rat: with special reference to veterinary medicine licensing.	Preparation of product licence applications for veterinary medicines requires metabolic studies in the target species. This experimental procedure uses animals and is costly. In the present report of preliminary studies it is demonstrated that pig liver homogenates prepared from abattoir material and homogenates of rat liver show the interspecies metabolic differences that would be expected in vivo. The results therefore support the use of abattoir-derived liver homogenates in preliminary studies to investigate target species metabolism in veterinary drug development.
Scientific basis in the setting of residue limits for veterinary drugs in food of animal origin taking into account the presence of their metabolites]	Maximum residue level (MRL) for veterinary drugs in food of animal origin has been proposed by FAO/WHO, as a new evaluation procedure taking into account the presence of metabolites for the regulation of veterinary drug residues. The MRL is the maximum concentration of residue resulting from the use of a veterinary drug that is recommended to be legally permitted as acceptable in a food. It is established from the Acceptable Daily Intake (ADI) obtained from the data of toxicological studies, the residue concentration of the drug when used according to good practice in the use of veterinary drugs, and the lowest level consistent with the practical analytical methods available for routine residue analysis. Among the veterinary drugs, some chemicals contain a large amount of bound residues that are neither extractable from tissues by the analytical method identical with that used in parent chemicals. Especially, the bioavailable residues which are probably absorbed when the food is ingested are of great toxicological concern. In this case, the FAO/WHO recommends that the MRL can be established after the calculation of daily intake of residues of toxicological concern by the addition of both the extractable and bioavailable bound residues.
Animal welfare (well-being), the veterinary profession and Veterinary Services.	Definitions of terms associated with animal welfare are followed by an account of the development of specific legislation in various countries, and a discussion of the roles of the veterinary profession, animal welfare societies and the animal rights movement.
Draught animals and welfare.	In fifty developing countries, which contain half of the total human population of the world, there is a heavy dependence on draught animals as an energy source. These animals are used for agriculture operations in 52% of cultivated areas of the world, as well as for hauling 25 million carts. This situation is likely to continue for at least another fifty years. The work performed annually by these draught animals would require 20 million tons of petroleum, valued at US$6 billion, if it were performed by motorized vehicles. The poor working conditions of these animals often adversely affect their productivity. The application of improved technology and better management (i.e. through better feed and health services, and improved design of agricultural implements and carts) could considerably improve the welfare of these animals. Improved systems would generate sufficient benefits for the economy to justify the required investment. High priority should therefore be given to draught animal power in the economic development agenda.
Welfare of competition horses.	In the large majority of cases and circumstances, horses benefit from their association with man. However, abuse of horses can occur, due to neglect or through the pressures of competition. The welfare of all animals, including competition horses, has become increasingly topical over the past ten years. Equestrian sport is coming under closer public scrutiny due to reports of apparent abuse. The bodies responsible for regulating these sports strenuously endeavour to protect the welfare of horses which compete under their rules and regulations. The Fédération Equestre Internationale (FEI: International Equestrian Federation) is the sole authority for all international events in dressage, show-jumping, three-day event, driving, endurance riding and vaulting. The FEI rules illustrate the ways in which the welfare of competing horses is safeguarded.
Zoo animal welfare.	The history of zoo animal welfare legislation extends back to 1876, and is often tied to general animal welfare regulations. As knowledge and societal values have changed, so have the focus of zoos and the regulations governing them. Today, the issues involved in zoo animal welfare are complex and broad-based. Building on the basic welfare tenets of adequate feed, water, shelter, sanitation and veterinary care, current issues include the following: handling and training of captive animals, psychological well-being and environmental enrichment, enclosure design, species preservation, environmental and conservation issues, captive-breeding programmes. Complicating the matter further, government regulations try to assimilate all aspects of zoo animal welfare into the laws to provide humane care and handling for all species concerned. Zoo animal welfare will remain a challenging area, as increasing demands are placed on zoos and regulatory agencies to manage this diminishing resource.
Veterinary ethology and animal welfare.	Renewed interest in veterinary ethology has been stimulated by increasing sensitivity in modern societies with regard to the use of animals, and a concurrent shift in emphasis in the veterinary profession, including veterinary education. Veterinary ethology appears to form the common ground where animal welfare activists and veterinarians can meet. Ethological parameters seem to be adequate when evaluating animal welfare and well-being, as well as for correcting situations of animal abuse. This approach in assessing animal welfare avoids either a mechanistic or an emotional evaluation of the quality of life of an animal. The object of veterinary ethology is to teach responsible animal ownership. A practical checklist is provided which enables the full spectrum of animal welfare and well-being issues to be addressed from a veterinary point of view.
The application of risk analysis to international trade in animals and animal products.	In an era when arduous land and sea journeys separated exporting and recipient nations, the duration and stress of transport dictated localised sourcing of stock and provided an implicit quarantine. Clinically latent infection, which remained undetected prior to embarkation, often surfaced and was eliminated before reaching the importing country. Many nations which would not accept the risk of importation, on clinical grounds, could effectively isolate themselves by prohibiting entry. Passive acceptance characterised much of the response of industry to the perceived wisdom behind such decisions. Advances in transportation technology now permit the accumulation of an export consignment from across an entire country. The assembled shipment is a sentinel for the infection experience of the national herd. The journey to the final destination is measured in hours, rather than weeks. Parallel diagnostic and epidemiological advances face the challenge of compensating for the risks attendant in such widespread and rapid sourcing of stock. Nations which judge the risks as unacceptable face a concerted legal challenge on a series of levels, both domestic and international. Refusal of legal importation can be circumvented easily through the smuggling of germ plasm. National Veterinary Services must respond to the economic, social and political realities of this new international trading environment. The means of facing this challenge through quantitative risk analysis are described. The theory of risk analysis, as well as the qualitative and quantitative evolution of the import applications of this analysis, is explained. Current challenges and potential solutions are discussed.
Standardization of nomenclature for animal health risk analysis.	The authors propose standard definitions for terms and concepts commonly used in agricultural risk analysis. The differences between risk analysis and risk assessment are explained, and the relationship of these two terms with the more familiar terms "epidemiology" and "biostatistics" is discussed. The authors stress the importance of differentiating words and phrases which share similar sounds but are subtly different, and the necessity of developing a common nomenclature in agricultural risk analysis. An opportunity is provided for readers to comment on the definitions presented.
Diseases of lower vertebrates and biomedical research.	The historical and present role of lower (non-mammalian) vertebrates in biomedical research is discussed. Examples are given of disease problems and experimental studies. It is suggested that lower vertebrates may prove of increasing value in this field in the future.
Determination of synthetic estrogens in illegal veterinary formulations by HPTLC and HPLC.	To determine the actual amount of diethylstilbestrol, hexestrol, and dienestrol in formulations such as pellets and oily injections that are illegally available on the Brazilian market, a simple methanol extraction is used for the analysis of the pellets and an ether extraction with Sephadex columns (for clean-up) is used for the oily injections. High-performance thin-layer chromatography is used for identification (as a qualitative and semiquantitative method), and high-performance liquid chromatography is used for quantitation. The results of the analysis show that all the formulations are not in accordance with the information listed on their labels.
Pustular dermatitis in veterinarians following delivery in domestic animals; an occupational disease]	To assess the prevalence of contact dermatitis after deliveries in cattle or sheep among veterinarians.
What clients want from veterinarians following the death of their companion animal. Bobby died, what now?]	The aim of this investigation is to determine whether Dutch people would appreciate support, either from or via veterinarians following the death of a companion animal. In general, clients believe both local practitioners and specialists, even though they might not have seen the animal more than once, should offer some form of support. Being called by the veterinarian in question, a few days after the death of the animal, was the option that was most appreciated. Twenty one respondents (15%) wished to be able to attend a pet loss support group or call a hotline, following the death of their companion animal. The need to have questions answered by the veterinarian and the role the respondents thought the veterinarian should play following pet loss, were significant factors determining whether use would be made of support offered to them. Other factors included in the survey, such as age, sex and social status were not significant.
"Spoils of war"--losses of the Berlin Veterinary Medicine Library in 1945]	All the German veterinary libraries suffered heavy losses during World War II and its aftermath, but the Berlin Veterinary Faculty, whose library was known until 1945 as the biggest veterinary book collection of the world, was exceedingly affected. The reports on the damage during these years note losses of up to 35,000 or 43,000 of nearly 60,000 books. Actually, diverse papers did mention this fact but they concealed the underlying causes of the losses or simply referred to effects of war. However, new evidence allows to claim, that most of the losses have been caused by a very different measure: the confiscation of parts of the library by units of the Soviet Army in May and June 1945 as spoils of war. Eye witnesses and unpublished official as well as unofficial reports show that the choice as to what books should be seized was purposefully made according to special criteria: the most modern specialists' literature (journals and books) and the rare books of bibliophilic value. The library lost important parts of its stock: medical books, parts of the irreplaceable historical collection in veterinary medicine, the foreign language books, the biggest part of the natural science literature (physics, chemistry, biology with botany and zoology) and books on adjacent fields of interest (geography and travel literature, belles lettres, history, philosophy and so on). This contribution deals with the events during the weeks before and after VE day and the course of measures taken in selecting and expropriating the books mentioned above. It is intended to invite additional contemporary witnesses who might bei knowledgeable about these events to help in specifying them more precisely and clearing open questions, which still remain.
Computer program for maintenance of individual animal records in a nonhuman primate colony.	A computer program was developed to maintain animal records for a nonhuman primate colony used in research. The program was designed for use with an existing laboratory notebook system. The computer program identifies each notebook entry containing information about each animal and keeps other information, including animal name, sex, species, projects to which the animal is assigned, location of the animal, dates and body weights. The program is interactive and easy to use. Information stored in the system is readily accessible to all investigators using the animals. In 17 months of use, 1382 master file entries were developed for 113 monkeys.
Contemporary marketing.	Practice success in the near future will only come to those of us who become formidable marketers. Veterinarians are running out of leverage. Profitable vaccines, ovariohysterectomies, castrations, and declaws have been reduced to a commodity. We must learn how to differentiate our services from these average or standard services.
An outbreak of bovine tuberculosis in two herds in south west Scotland--veterinary and human public health response.	Although the incidence of bovine tuberculosis in UK cattle has declined markedly, outbreaks still occur. There is often confusion as to how veterinary and human public health agencies should interact in such circumstances. We report an outbreak of bovine tuberculosis which occurred in South West Scotland in 1992.
Microbiological research at the Centre for Tropical Veterinary Medicine (CTVM).	The nature of the research carried out by the staff of the Microbiology Section of the Centre for Tropical Veterinary Medicine (CTVM) at home and abroad is illustrated by precis of projects on rinderpest, orf in goats and sheep, bovine dermatophilosis, contagious caprine pleuropneumonia, tick-borne fever in goats and sheep, bovine petechial fever, and caprine cowdriosis.
Wildlife, people and development: veterinary contributions to wildlife health and resource management in Africa.	Human population pressures, habitat loss, environmental degradation and illegal hunting in Africa have resulted in the loss of biodiversity and near extinction of certain wildlife species. The dilemma for Africa is the balancing of conservation and development. If wildlife is not to become a relic of the past then it must have more than just aesthetic value. It must contribute materially to the well being of people who live close to the resource. In fact, appropriate management of biodiversity would lay the foundations for a more positive future for the rural people of Africa, with the key being the adoption of an active adaptive management philosophy. This paper reviews the issue of sustainable use of wildlife resources and how the Veterinary profession contributes positively to wildlife health management in Africa. These contributions have been through increasing veterinary inputs into wildlife management and research, disease surveillance and prevention, training and education. Wildlife and ecosystems are increasingly having to be managed in order to save and maintain biological diversity. Veterinarians have a crucial role to play towards the maintenance of wildlife health as part of a multi-disciplinary wildlife management team.
Detection of veterinary drugs in foodstuffs using gel permeation.	The applicability of gel permeation chromatography (GPC) to the purification in foodstuffs in the detection of three classes of drugs, sulfonamides, nitrofurans, and growth promoters, is described. This technique has already found a wide application in the routine analysis of pesticides in milk, eggs and grease but to our knowledge there is no published work on the use of GPC for purifying animal feedstuffs for the detection of the above-mentioned classes of drugs. Three main advantages characterize this method: the simultaneous determination of a wide spectrum of drugs; good performance of the purification system; and high recoveries. The method was tested for a determination limit of 1 ppm in each compound. Average recoveries of spiked samples were: 99% for sulfonamides; 98% for nitrofurans; and 100% for carbadox [methyl-3-(2-quinoxalinylmethylene) carbazate-1,4-dioxide] and olaquindox [N-(2-hydroxyethyl)-3-methyl-2-quinoxalinecarboxamide-1,4-dioxide] . The method was also tested for linearity over the range 1-100 ppm and gave r values between 0.9998 and 0.9999 for each drug. Analyses were performed by HPLC, either using a diode array or windowplot-system detector. The described method is quick and simple, which is very useful in routine analysis.
Zoo and animal medicine]	The occupation of veterinary directors of zoos or veterinarians working in zoos are manifold. The different interrelations between zoologists and veterinarians in the central European area are presented under a private view of the author.
The evaluation of breed-specific defects in dog breeds from an animal welfare viewpoint]	Issues of breed defects such as morphology, physiology or behaviour in pure-breed dogs, are briefly discussed. Suggestions for various kinds of improvements are made, particularly concerning legislation, analysis of pedigree to avoid undesirable breed characteristics and what breeding clubs, individual breeders, judges, future dog owners and veterinarians could and should do about these problems; these are followed by summary conclusions.
A veterinary President. Interview by Robin Fox.	On 21 July, Lord Soulsby of Swaffham Prior took office as President of the Royal Society of Medicine. He qualified mrcvs from Edinburgh in 1948 and held lectureships in Bristol and Cambridge before appointment as Professor of Parasitology in the University of Pennsylvania in 1964. There he stayed for fourteen years, returning to Cambridge in 1978 as Professor of Animal Pathology (now Emeritus). His work as a parasitologist has taken him to the USSR, Nigeria, India, Australia, South America, China and numerous countries of Europe. Earlier presidencies have included the Royal College of Veterinary Surgeons, the World Association for the Advancement of Parasitology, the Cambridge Society for Comparative Medicine, and the Comparative Medicine Section of the RSM (1993-95); he is Patron of the Fund for Replacement of Animals in Medical Experiments. He has been a consultant to international bodies including WHO, the UN Development Programme, FAO, and the International Atomic Energy Agency. Created a life peer in 1990 (now on the Opposition benches), he chaired a Select Committee on antibiotic resistance whose report appeared earlier this year. He is interviewed here by Robin Fox.
The 1997 list. Proposed new bacterial taxa and proposed changes of bacterial names published during 1997 and considered to be of interest to medical or veterinary bacteriology. An informational note.	A list of names published or validated in 1997 is presented. We also comment on the tendency to base names of new taxa on a single bacterial strain, and the consequences for reliable descriptions that this tendency implies.
