Ability of transplanted cultured epithelium to respond to dermal papillae.	Cultured epithelium has been used successfully in the treatment of extensive burns. Regenerated epidermis, however, lacks such as hair follicles and sweat glands that are common in mammalian skin. We attempted to determine whether cultured epithelium could be induced to form hair follicles by dermal papillae, which are most important for the morphogenesis and growth of hair follicles. We cultivated adult rat sole keratinocytes, obtained the cultured epithelium, and prepared recombinants consisting of cultured epithelium and fresh dermal papillae with or without the sole dermis. These recombinants were then transplanted underneath the dermis of the dorsal skin of syngeneic rats or athymic mice. Histologic examination revealed that the transplanted cultured epithelium formed the follicular structures with sebaceous gland-like structure following induction of the dermal papillae, especially when supported by the dermis. We concluded that transplanted cultured epithelium of adult rat sole keratinocytes can respond to growth signals from adult dermal papillae.
Empirically inspired simulated electro-mechanical model of the rat mystacial follicle-sinus complex.	In whiskered animals, activity is evoked in the primary sensory afferent cells (trigeminal nerve) by mechanical stimulation of the whiskers. In some cell populations this activity is correlated well with continuous stimulus parameters such as whisker deflection magnitude, but in others it is observed to represent events such as whisker-stimulator contact or detachment. The transduction process is mediated by the mechanics of the whisker shaft and follicle-sinus complex (FSC), and the mechanics and electro-chemistry of mechanoreceptors within the FSC. An understanding of this transduction process and the nature of the primary neural codes generated is crucial for understanding more central sensory processing in the thalamus and cortex. However, the details of the peripheral processing are currently poorly understood. To overcome this deficiency in our knowledge, we constructed a simulated electro-mechanical model of the whisker-FSC-mechanoreceptor system in the rat and tested it against a variety of data drawn from the literature. The agreement was good enough to suggest that the model captures many of the key features of the peripheral whisker system in the rat.
Hydrodynamic trail following in a California sea lion (Zalophus californianus).	The mystacial vibrissae of pinnipeds constitute a sensory system for active touch and detection of hydrodynamic events. Harbour seals (Phoca vitulina) and California sea lions (Zalophus californianus) can both detect hydrodynamic stimuli caused by a small sphere vibrating in the water (hydrodynamic dipole stimuli). Hydrodynamic trail following has only been shown in harbour seals. Hydrodynamical and biomechanical studies of single vibrissae of the two species showed that the specialized undulated structure of harbour seal vibrissae, as opposed to the smooth structure of sea lion vibrissae, suppresses self-generated noise in the actively moving animal. Here we tested whether also sea lions were able to perform hydrodynamic trail following in spite of their non-specialized hair structure. Hydrodynamic trails were generated by a remote-controlled miniature submarine. Linear trails could be followed with high accuracy, comparable to the performance of harbour seals, but in contrast, increasing delay resulted in a reduced performance as compared to harbour seals. The results of this study are consistent with the hypothesis that structural differences in the vibrissal hair types of otariid compared to phocid pinnipeds lead to different sensitivity of the vibrissae during forward swimming, but still reveal a good performance even in the species with non-specialized hair type.
Is areal extent in sensory cerebral cortex determined by peripheral innervation density?	The whisker-to-barrel pathway of mice (an important component of the animal's somatosensory system) was studied in two experiments. In one, the cortical representation of a row of whiskers was caused to be larger by lesioning a neighbouring row of follicles, while the innervation density remained unchanged. In the second experiment mice, selectively bred for particular whisker and barrel patterns, showed for their supernumerary vibrissal follicles a relatively large cortical representation. On the basis of the second experiment we formulate a possible role of the sensory periphery in brain evolution.
Structure, vascularization, and innervation of the mystacial pad of the rat as revealed by the lectin Griffonia simplicifolia.	The mystacial pad of the rat is endowed with rows of vibrissal follicle-sinus complexes (F-SCs) that receive a dense and rich variety of innervation, much of which is C fibers. Each F-SC consists of a follicle at the core of a spindle-shaped, encapsulated vascular sinus. Previous studies have shown that the B subunit of the lectin Griffonia simplicifolia (GSA I-B4) binds selectively to a subset of small neurons in the trigeminal ganglion and to a subset of C fibers preferentially distributed to inner lamina II and outer lamina III of nucleus caudalis in the brainstem trigeminal complex in the rat. These laminae are also a major site of termination for afferents in superficial vibrissal nerves (SVNs) that innervate the upper portion of F-SCs. To determine the peripheral distribution of the afferents that bind GSA I-B4, mystacial pads from rats were prepared for fluorescence microscopy with GSA I-B4 conjugated to rhodamine. At the neck of each F-SC, numerous circumferentially oriented bundles of fine-caliber axonal profiles were labeled in the inner conical body, which receives nearly all of its innervation from the SVNs. A sparse, random distribution of fine-caliber profiles from deep vibrissal nerves was labeled at the level of the cavernous sinus in the deep half of the F-SCs. GSA I-B4 also labeled a variety of nonneural structures. By binding to vascular linings, GSA I-B4 revealed a dense, highly organized capillary system within the mesenchymal sheath that forms the inner lining of the vascular sinuses. Thus each F-SC appears to have a closed capillary system within the open vascular sinus. Trabeculae within the lumen of the cavernous sinus were also revealed to span between the sinus capsule and the mesenchymal sheath only about midway along the length of the follicle instead of the entire deeper half, as was previously believed. in addition, GSA I-B4 bound to the surface of follicular cells preferentially in the superficial half of the F-SCs. Sweat glands within the intervibrissal fur and some cells within sebaceous glands in F-SCs were also labeled as well as their ducts. The potential functional implications of these various features are discussed.
