Use of selective media to recover Salmonella and Vibrio cholerae after growth in reconditioned pork-processing wastewater.	Selective plating media are used for the enumeration and isolation of bacterial pathogens from food and water samples. This study compared the quantitative recovery of Salmonella spp. and Vibrio cholerae grown in nutrient-limited, filter-sterilized, reconditioned wastewater over the temperature range of 4 to 45 degrees C using nonselective and pathogen-specific selective media. Viable Salmonella were enumerated on tryptic soy agar (TSA) and XLT-4, and viable V. cholerae were enumerated on TSA and thiosulfate-citrate-bile-sucrose agar. There was a statistically significant (P < 0.05) higher recovery of both pathogens over the growth temperature range on TSA compared to the selective media. Trehalose, a stress-induced metabolite of Salmonella, was isolated from the cells grown in the reconditioned wastewater, whereas, the V. cholerae exhibited a change in cellular morphology from rod to coccoid shape. These results suggest that growth in nutrient-limited water injured or stressed the individual pathogens. Care should be used in choosing the procedure and plating medium for quantitative recovery of pathogens from such a nutrient-limiting environment.
Biofilm formation and dispersal and the transmission of human pathogens.	Several pathogenic bacterial species that are found in the environment can form complex multicellular structures on surfaces known as biofilms. Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Vibrio cholerae and certain species of nontuberculous mycobacteria are examples of human pathogens that form biofilms in natural aquatic environments. We suggest that the dynamics of biofilm formation facilitates the transmission of pathogens by providing a stable protective environment and acting as a nidus for the dissemination of large numbers of microorganisms; both as detached biofilm clumps and by the fluid-driven dispersal of biofilm clusters along surfaces. We also suggest that emerging evidence indicates that biofilm formation conveys a selective advantage to certain pathogens by increasing their ability to persist under diverse environmental conditions.
Sugars inhibit expression of the rugose phenotype of Vibrio cholerae.	Vibrio cholerae can shift to a rugose colony phenotype, reflecting expression of an exopolysaccharide that provides protection against a variety of environmental stresses. Our data indicate that expression of the rugose phenotype is inhibited by a variety of sugars, including sucrose, dextrose, arabinose, fructose, and maltose. Inhibition by sucrose may be one factor in explaining the failure of rugose strains to grow on thiosulfate citrate bile salts sucrose agar, the primary selective medium for V. cholerae.
Detection and quantitative assessment of a Vibrio cholerae O1 species in several foods by a novel enzyme immunoassay.	A selected antibody enzyme immunoassay (SAEIA) for the general detection of Vibrio cholerae O1 species has been developed using the immunological reagents of a rabbit antiserum specific for V. cholerae O1 classical Inaba 569B and immobilized cell fragments of V. cholerae O1 El Tor 85P6, and beta-D-galactosidase-labeled goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulin G as tracer. The SAEIA was specific for V. cholerae O1 species and showed low cross-reaction values to other microorganism species tested including Vibrio parahaemolyticus. The detection limit of the SAEIA was 4,500 cells per assay for all the 13 strains of V. cholerae O1 examined. Quantitative comparison on the growth of the El Tor 85P4 in several foods cultured for 24 hr were studied using the SAEIA. Preceding the experiments, little inhibition of every food homogenate for the measurement of the SAEIA was first demonstrated and then the homogenate was directly used for an assay sample. The interaction of the growth of Escherichia coli to that of V. cholerae O1 in a food was also found to be little under the mixed culturing of both bacteria using the SAEIA.
Construction and analysis of a Vibrio cholerae delta-aminolevulinic acid auxotroph which confers protective immunity in a rabbit model.	Vibrio cholerae CVD101 is a very effective live vaccine. Although this strain does not produce active cholera toxin because of a mutation in the gene for the cholera toxin A subunit, it still shows residual pathogenicity. To attenuate CVD101 further, we set out to isolate derivatives of CVD101 which were limited in their ability to proliferate in vivo. Two delta-aminolevulinic acid auxotrophs of CVD101, designated V286 and V287, were isolated by transposon mutagenesis and penicillin enrichment. Southern blotting revealed that the mutants differed with respect to the location of the transposon insertion. Under aerobic conditions, in the absence of delta-aminolevulinic acid, both mutants showed diminished growth compared with CVD101. The growth of V286 was most severely affected. Microaerophilic growth of both mutants was less affected. Competition experiments with a rabbit model showed that strain V286 was found in numbers 10(3)- to 10(4)-fold lower than its parental strain. This observation indicates that strain V286 is impaired in its ability to colonize the rabbit intestine. It also supports an important role for aerobic growth in the colonization of the intestine by V. cholerae. Vaccination of rabbits with a single dose of strain V286 resulted in full protection against challenge with a virulent strain. Strain V286 was not shed from rabbits in a cultivatable form. Our results suggest that delta-aminolevulinic acid auxotrophy can attenuate V. cholerae by limiting its ability to colonize without affecting its capacity to induce protective immunity. Furthermore, this type of mutation may prevent the spread of V. cholerae vaccine strains in the environment.
Association of Vibrio cholerae with fresh water amoebae.	An investigation was undertaken to determine whether Acanthamoeba polyphaga SHI and Naegleria gruberi 1518/1e could affect the survival of various strains of Vibrio cholerae in laboratory microcosms. In microcosms pre-inoculated with trophozoites of amoebae, all six strains of V. cholerae tested survived and multiplied during 24 h. In control microcosms without trophozoites of amoebae, survival of the V. cholerae strains was much decreased. Two strains of V. cholerae were used to determine whether V. cholerae might survive ingestion within amoebae and subsequent encystment. Strain 152 was re-isolated from encysting N. gruberi 1518/1e but not from A. polyphaga SHI. Strain 9112 could not be isolated from cysts of either species of amoebae.
Cases of imported cholera in France, summer 2005. A. Tarantola for the incident management teams]	Cholera is a bacterial infection, which causes digestive symptoms and massive diarrhoea. It may lead to dehydration and death if appropriate medical management is not rapidly initiated. Most cases of infection by choleric vibrio, however, remain symptom-free or may mimic common gastroenteritis. A review of two cases of imported cholera in France in the summer of 2005 and the community- and hospital-based investigation, which they triggered, enabled the incident management teams to assess risks of transmission. There were no secondary cases among 58 hospital contacts and 15 family contacts of the cases. Clinicians will find a discussion of possible clinical presentations and the risk of secondary transmission, in the context of progressing epidemics in countries, which have maintained close ties with France.
Study on the growth of Vibrio cholerae O139 within Acanthamoeba polyphaga and its survival in the cysts in low temperature]	To determine whether Acanthamoeba polyphaga could affect the survival and growth of Vibrio cholerae O139 in low temperature.
PilZ domain proteins bind cyclic diguanylate and regulate diverse processes in Vibrio cholerae.	Cyclic diguanylate (c-di-GMP) is an allosteric activator and second messenger implicated in the regulation of a variety of biological processes in diverse bacteria. In Vibrio cholerae, c-di-GMP has been shown to inversely regulate biofilm-specific and virulence gene expression, suggesting that c-di-GMP signaling is important for the transition of V. cholerae from the environment to the host. However, the mechanism behind this regulation remains unknown. Recently, it was proposed that the PilZ protein domain represents a c-di-GMP-binding domain. Here we show that V. cholerae PilZ proteins bind c-di-GMP specifically and are involved in the regulation of biofilm formation, motility, and virulence. These findings confirm a role for PilZ proteins as c-di-GMP-sensing proteins within the c-di-GMP signaling network.
A note on water quality associated with slaughter premises in Bangladesh.	Water quality used for washing carcasses and abattoir premises was assessed at two sites in southeast Bangladesh. In addition, the effect of discharging untreated washings from slaughter premises on water purity in the receiving waterways was assessed from pH, dissolved oxygen and electrical conductivity measurements. Premises effluents did not have a significant effect on the physico-chemical properties of the water in the receiving canals, as determined from the difference between the 4 m upstream and 4 m downstream samples, relative to the entry point of the effluent. When a water shortage occurred at one of the premises, water was sourced for washing the carcasses and premises from a canal that was also used for conveying municipal effluent. The discharge water from the premises at this time had a pH, dissolved oxygen content and conductivity of 7.93, 1.84 mg/L and 6.06 mS/cm respectively, and this would be a threat to survival of freshwater animal life.
Antibioticograms of Vibrio cholerae non-01/non-0139 strains isolated from humans within 1968-2009]	Analysis of the antibioticograms of the Vibrio cholerae non-01/non-0139 strains showed that in the cultures isolated in the Rostov Region in 1968--1975 there were present markers of resistance to ampicillin (7%), kanamycin (15.8%), rifampicin (3.5%) and trimetoprim/sulfamethoxazole (14%). Among the strains isolated in the Ukraine in 1975 14% was resistant to ampicillin. More than a half of the strains isolated in Uzbekistan in 1990 and 2000-2001, in the Arkhangelsk Region in 1999-2000 and in the Kalmykia in 1999-2005 was antibiotic resistant. In the above regions the strains were resistant to ampicillin (12.5-44.4%), kanamycin (11-55%), rifampicin (1.9-12.5%) and trimetoprim/sulfamethoxazole (25-62.5%). Among the cultures isolated in Uzbekistan in 1990 and 2000-2001 25 and 7.8% were resistant to furazolidone and 31.25% was resistant to streptomycin (1990). All the cultures isolated in the Rostov Region in 2005-2009 were resistant to ampicillin, 50% was resistant to ceftazidim, 57% was resistant to streptomycin and furazolidone, 7.2% was resistant to kanamycin and 14% was resistant to trimetoprim/sulfamethoxazole. The studies revealed an increase of the extent of the V.cholerae non-01/non-0139 resistance spectrum within 1968-2009, simultaneous presence of up to 5 diverse resistance markers and a variety of their combinations, that requires the use of antibacterials for the treatment of the diseases due to the vibrios in strict compliance with the pathogen antibioticogram and their early replace by more efficient drugs.
2-cycle culture of Vibrio cholerae in a fermenter]	The method for the two-cycle cultivation of V. cholerae, reference strains Inaba and Ogawa, in a fermenter has been developed. In the first and second cultivation cycles no difference in the yield of the biomass and in the ultrastructure of the vibrios has been established. In the second cycle a decrease in the minimum time of generation has been observed. The vaccines obtained in the first and second cultivation cycles have not been found to differ in their antigenic and immunogenic activity. The vaccines meet the WHO requirements.
New selective and differential medium for Vibrio cholerae and Vibrio vulnificus.	Thiosulfate-citrate-bile salts-sucrose agar has been routinely used for the isolation of pathogenic vibrios, although its selectivity for Vibrio cholerae and Vibrio vulnificus is inadequate. Therefore, a new plating medium, cellobiose-polymyxin B-colistin agar, was developed for the isolation of these two species. Cellobiose-polymyxin B-colistin agar demonstrated a significant advantage over other media designed for the isolation or differentiation of vibrios: of both the 136 strains representing 19 Vibrio species and the marine isolates of the genera Pseudomonas, Flavobacterium, and Photobacterium, only V. vulnificus and V. cholerae were able to grow. Furthermore, the fermentation of cellobiose by V. vulnificus allowed for the easy differentiation of these two species. This medium offers significant potential as a selective and differential medium for these two pathogenic vibrios.
Quantitative evaluation of colonizing ability of Vibrio cholerae O1.	A new method to evaluate the adhesive ability of Vibrio cholerae O1 was proposed. Broth cultured V. cholerae O1 and a piece of formalin-fixed rabbit intestinal wall were incubated together in KRT buffer and the number of adhered organisms was counted under a scanning electron microscope. This method was much less laborious than other methods that have been used so far, and most significantly, constant results were obtained in repeated experiments. The adhesive properties of toxigenic V. cholerae O1 evaluated by this method correlated well with its observed experimental pathogenicity.
Oral immunization in adult mice to live and heat-killed Vibrio cholerae.	Effects of systemic and intestinal local immune responses in mice fed ad libitum and forcedly with live or heat-killed Vibrio cholerae on the elimination of vibrios from the intestine were investigated. In mice fed with live vibrios, ad libitum feeding could induce potential delayed-type hypersensitivity and rapid production of vibriocidal antibody in the serum whereas forcedly feeding suppressed the delayed-type hypersensitivity and retarded the antibody production. In contrast, when killed microorganisms were used as antigens, significant delayed-type hypersensitivity and rapid response of vibriocidal antibody were induced in forcedly fed mice although ad libitum feeding suppressed the induction of the delayed-type hypersensitivity and retarded the production of vibriocidal antibody. The elimination of vibrios from the intestine of mice was promoted in both mice groups fed ad libitum and forcedly with live vibrios but not with killed microorganisms. Total IgA in the intestinal contents of mice fed with live vibrios both ad libitum and forcedly were higher than those of mice fed with killed antigens. In addition, when the extracts of intestinal contents were absorbed by live antigens, IgA contents in mice fed with live vibrios were reduced more markedly than those in mice immunized orally by the feeding with killed antigens. These findings suggested that the elimination of vibrios from the organ was closely related to local IgA antibody response to heat-labile substance of live Vibrio cholerae.
In vitro degradation of mouse, rabbit and dog antibodies to Vibrio cholerae by succus entericus.	Purified antibodies to Vibrio cholerae from mouse, rabbit and dog were digested in vitro by homologous intestinal secretions. When assessed with regard to their complement-dependent vibriocidal activity, IgG antibodies were generally more susceptible to degradation than IgM antibodies, High levels of tryptic inhibitors were required to inhibit this digestion. Rabbit IgG was unusual in being quite resistant to digestion. Gel filtration studies demonstrated that secretory IgA, isolated from mouse intestinal secretions, was resistant to proteolysis. Similar studies on dog IgG and mouse IgM demonstrated production of F(ab') 2-like fragments. Digestss of these antibodies, while devoid of Fc-mediated vibriocidal activity, retained significant protective activity for baby mice.
The source of IgM and IgG in the dog intestine.	The source of IgM and IgG2a,b in the dog intestine was investigated, using labelled dog immunoglobulins and chronic Thiry-Vella loops of dog small intestine. Clearancess of IgM and IgG2a,b from serum into intestinal secretions were similar, reflecting transfer of a greater mass of IgG2a,b than of IgM. Only 20% of the intestinal IgM derived from serum, irrespective of the marker used. About one third of the total intestinal IgG, of all sub-classes and accrued from all sources, was serum-derived IgG2a,b. This indicates that serum is a major contributor to dog intestinal IgG2a,b.
Rapid detection of Vibrio cholerae with a new selective enrichment medium and polymerase chain reaction.	The inhibitory effect of metallic EDTA compounds on growth of Vibrio cholerae and Escherichia coli was studied. Only Fe-EDTA among the compounds tested showed pH-dependent growth inhibition on E. coli at pH 9.0, but no inhibition of V. cholerae at the same pH. By addition of Fe-EDTA as a selective inhibitor, a novel enrichment broth (tentatively designated as VCF broth) for the selective isolation and cultivation of V. cholerae from other Gram-negative bacilli has been developed, and the selective enrichment capacity of VCF broth for V. cholerae and selective inhibiting activity against E. coli were significantly higher than those of alkaline peptone water. A simple procedure for rapid detection of V. cholerae by selective enrichment for 6 hr with VCF broth and then amplification of the cholera toxin target DNA fragment by the polymerase chain reaction was presented. VCF broth may be a useful tool for the selective enrichment of V. cholerae in bacterial examinations.
In vitro and in situ survivals of bacterial populations added to fresh water environments.	The fate of Aeromonas hydrophila, Alcaligenes denitrificans, Vibrio cholerae non-01, Pseudomonas putida and four different isolates of Escherichia coli in fresh river water were assessed by using different microcosms (i.e., membrane diffusion chamber and Erlenmeyer flask). When water samples were incubated at 16 +/- 1 degrees C, the differences in extent of survival among test bacteria were in general not significant. If the incubation temperature was raised to 29 +/- 1 degrees C, in the in situ studies, none of the added bacterial population could be detected by Day 3. In the in vitro studies, two of the four E. coli tested remained detectable by Day 3. Similarly, populations of the introduced A. hydrophila, P. putida and A. denitrificans were still detectable by Day 5. In general, all test bacteria survived better under low incubation temperature, regardless of whether the experiments were carried out under in vitro or in situ conditions. The results clearly indicated that when studying the fate of the introduced bacteria in the aquatic environment, in situ study was definitely required, especially in the summer time.
Seawater effects on various Vibrio species.	This study compared the effects of sea water on Vibrio cholerae and six other Vibrio spp. Survival in seawater microcosms as well as uptake of a carbonated substrate in marine or non-marine conditions were investigated. Except for V. vulnificus becoming non-culturable, all the other selected species survived in sea water for at least 15 days at 20 degrees C. Depending on the species tested, the substrate was better transported in a high salt medium (V. cholerae, V. fluvialis and V. metschnikovii), than in a low salt medium (V. fluvialis, V. furnissii, V. parahaemolyticus and V. vulnificus). In terms of the response of the species to marine conditions, no correlation was found between survival in sea water and substrate uptake.
Comparative study of the physico-chemical properties of peptones used to the production of dry alkaline agar for cholera diagnosis]	The authors present the results of chemical and physico-chemical study of dry peptones (made in the USSR) used in the production of dry alkaline nutrient agar for the diagnosis of cholera, in comparison with peptones used for other purposes. The batches and types of peptones studied differed by the fractional peptide composition and by the physico-chemical characteristics. Positive results were obtained in the biological test in using peptones with marked hydrolysis with the amine nitrogen content of not less than 200--230 mg%, with an elution curve approaching the Hottinger's peptone curve, well soluble in buffer phosphate solution at 5% concentration.
The use of a new strain of Vibrio cholerae O139 as a producer of an enteric chemical vaccine]	Conditions for the submerged cultivation of a strain of V. cholerae O139, were worked out. These conditions ensured a high yield of biomass, soluble O-antigen and exoenzymes (proteinase, phospholipase A) into the culture medium, which exceeded their production by strains of serovar O1, respectively, 2, 3, 4 and 8 times. The preparation, isolated from the culture fluid and lyophilized, contained up to 50% of O-antigen and exoenzymes. In experiments on white mice the preparation exhibited low toxicity (LD50 was equal, on the average, to 1.2 mg) and immunogenicity (ED50 was equal to 3-5 micrograms) with respect to V. cholerae O139, which corresponded to the protective potency of commercial vaccine against V. cholerae O1 infection.
