Impaired learning-dependent cortical plasticity in Huntington's disease transgenic mice.	Huntington's disease (HD) is a genetically transmitted neurodegenerative disorder. The neuropathology in HD is a selective neuronal cell death in several brain regions including cortex. Although changes in synaptic plasticity were shown within the hippocampus and striatum of HD transgenic mice, there are no studies considering neocortical synaptic plasticity abnormalities in HD. We examined the impact of the HD transgene upon learning-dependent plasticity of cortical representational maps. The effect of associative learning, in which stimulation of a row of vibrissae was paired with appetitive stimulus, upon functional representations of vibrissae in the barrel cortex, was investigated with 2-deoxyglucose brain mapping in presymptomatic R6/1 HD mice. In wild-type mice, cortical representation of the row of vibrissae involved in the training was expanded, while in HD mice the representation of this row was not expanded. The results suggest that presymptomatic R6/1 HD transgenic mice show deficits in plasticity of primary somatosensory cortex.
Physical rehabilitation of paralysed facial muscles: functional and morphological correlates.	Using a combined morphofunctional approach, we recently found that polyinnervation of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is the critical factor for recovery of function after transection and suture of the facial nerve. Since polyinnervation is activity-dependent and can be manipulated, we tried to design a clinically feasible therapy by electrical stimulation or by soft tissue massage. First, electrical stimulation was applied to the transected facial nerve or to paralyzed facial muscles. Both procedures did not improve vibrissal motor performance (video-based motion analysis of whisking), failed to diminish polyinnervation, and even reduced the number of innervated NMJ to one-fifth of normal values. In contrast, gentle stroking of the paralyzed vibrissal muscles by hand resulted in full recovery of whisking. Manual stimulation depended on the intact sensory supply of the denervated muscle targets and was also effective after hypoglossal-facial anastomosis, after interpositional nerve grafting, when applied to the orbicularis oculi muscle and after transection and suture of the hypoglossal nerve. From these results, we conclude that manual stimulation is a noninvasive procedure with immediate potential for clinical rehabilitation following facial nerve reconstruction.
