Response to fludarabine in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia patients previously treated with chlorambucil as up-front therapy and a CHOP-like regimen as second line therapy.	Fludarabine (FAMP) is the most active single agent in relapsed and refractory patients with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia (B-CLL). However, it is not clear whether it should be used immediatly after failure of chlorambucil (CLB). We addressed such an issue retrospectively analyzing a series of patients in whom FAMP was used as third-line therapy after a sequential use of CLB and CHOP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone) or CHOP-like regimen, respectively.
Cyclophosphamide/fludarabine (CF) is active in the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma.	The purpose of this study was to determine the efficacy and toxicity of the cyclophosphamide and fludarabine (CF) regimen in patients with newly diagnosed and relapsed/refractory mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). Thirty patients with pathologically confirmed MCL were treated with the CF regimen. Ten (33%) had no prior therapy, six (20%) had one previous regimen, and 14 (47%) received two or more prior regimens. Ninety cycles of CF with a median of 3 cycles/patient (range, 1-5 cycles) were administered to patients with MCL. Nine patients (30%) had a complete response (CR) and 10 (33%) had a partial response (PR) for an overall response rate (RR) of 63%. The median failure-free survival (FFS) and overall survival (OS) was 4.8 months and 17.5 months, respectively. When patients were analyzed based upon the number of previous treatments (0, 1, or 2 or more), those with no previous treatment (n=10) had an overall response of 100%, with 70% CR. The median FFS was 28.1 months and the median OS for this group has not been reached at 42.3+ months. Hematologic and infectious toxicity were the major toxicities encountered with the CF regimen. Grade 3-4 neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and anemia were seen in 50%, 37%, and 36% of patients, respectively. There were 13 episodes of grade 3 infections. There was no treatment related mortality, In conclusion, the high response rate associated with the CF regimen merits further investigation in previously untreated patients with MCL, particularly in those who are not candidates for aggressive therapy.
Fulminant hepatic failure secondary to adenovirus following fludarabine-based chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Self-limited adenoviral infections are very common with the majority of infections resolving rapidly. Fatal complications may occur in severely immunocompromised patients. We describe a case of fulminant hepatic failure due to adenovirus in a 54-year-old man treated with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. There are no previous reports of this complication in conjunction with purine nucleoside therapy.
Features of the engraftment of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cells using reduced-intensity conditioning regimens.	The features of the engraftment in 26 patients allografted using reduced-intensity conditioning regimen (8 with chronic myelogenous leukemia, 6 with acute myelogenous leukemia, 9 with acute lymphoblastic leukemia, 1 with hybrid acute leukemia, 1 with myelodysplasia and 1 with thalassemia major) were analyzed. Patients received a median of 10 x 10(8)/Kg mononuclear cells (range 1.6 to 22.9), and a median of 4.2 x 10(6)/Kg CD34 cells (range 0.3 to 14). There was a linear correlation between the number of infused mononuclear cells (MNC) and that of CD34 cells (r = 0.78, p = 0.002). Three patients (11%) failed to engraft; in those who engrafted, the median time to achieve > 500 granulocytes was 11 days (range 10 to 22), and the median time to achieve > 10,000 platelets was 12 days (range 10 to 41). The three patients who failed to engraft received less than 5 x 10(8)/Kg MNC (1.6, 4.6 and 4.9) and less than 0.5 x 10(6)/Kg CD34; however, five of eight patients who received less than 5 x 10(8)/Kg MNC still engrafted successfully. On the other hand, all the patients who received less than 0.5 x 10(6)/Kg CD34 cells failed to engraft. Within the group of patients who engrafted, it was found that those who received more than 7 x 10(6)/Kg CD34+ cells tended to earlier recover > 20 x 10(9)/L platelets (p = 0.02), and > 0.5 x 10(9)/L neutrophils (p = 0.06) before day 15, than those who received less than 7 x 10(6)/Kg CD34+ cells. No such association could be established between the number of MNC and the time for recovery. In these patients allografted using reduced-intensity conditioning regimens, the target doses of hematopoietic cell used were similar to those described for conventional allografts: The number of CD34 infused cells was significantly related to the possibility of failure to engraft and to the recovery rate of the hemopoiesis.
A fludarabine-based dose-reduced conditioning regimen followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation from related or unrelated donors in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome.	We investigated the feasibility and efficacy of a fludarabine-based dose-reduced conditioning regimen followed by stem cell transplantation from related (n = 5) or unrelated HLA-matched donors (n = 7) in 12 patients with high risk MDS, who were not eligible for a standard myeloablative conditioning regimen. The conditioning regimen consisted of fludarabine 30 mg/m(2) daily for 6 days, busulfan 4 mg/kg daily for 2 days and anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG, rabbit) 10 mg/kg daily for 4 days in 11 patients, while one patient received fludarabine, ATG, cyclophosphamide and thiotepa. Graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis consisted of cyclosporine and a short course of methotrexate. The median age of the patients was 53 years (range 37-59). The median percentage of blasts in bone marrow aspirate at transplantation was 15% (range <5% to 35%). Diagnosis at transplant was RA (n = 1), RAEB (n = 5), RAEB-T (n = 5) and sAML (n = 1). A complex karyotype including monosomy 7 was noted in five patients. The reasons for using a dose-reduced conditioning regimen were prior autologous/syngeneic BMT (n = 4), active fungal infection (n = 2) or age/reduced performance status (n = 6). Engraftment was observed in all patients with complete donor chimerism. The incidence of acute GVHD (grade II-IV) was 33%. Eight patients died during follow-up due to relapse (n = 4), liver toxicity (n = 2), aspergillus (n = 1) or aGVHD grade IV (n = 1). After a median follow-up of 19 months, the 2-year estimated disease-free survival is 12% (95% CI: 2-23%) and the overall survival is 26% (95% CI: 4-52%). Fludarabine dose-reduced conditioning prior to allogeneic stem cell transplantation in high risk MDS patients, who were not eligible for standard transplantation, resulted in stable engraftment with complete chimerism, but the toxicity and relapse rate were considerable.
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation after a fludarabine/busulfan-based reduced-intensity conditioning in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome or secondary acute myeloid leukemia.	We report the feasibility and efficacy of a fludarabine/busulfan-based dose-reduced conditioning regimen followed by stem cell transplantation from related ( n=19) or unrelated HLA-matched donors ( n=18) in 37 patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) or secondary acute myeloid leukemia (sAML) who were not eligible for a standard myeloablative conditioning regimen. The conditioning regimen consisted of fludarabine (120-180 mg/m(2)), busulfan (8 mg/kg p.o. or 6.4 mg/kg i.v.), and antithymocyte globulin ( n=25). Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis consisted of cyclosporine ( n=36) and a short course of methotrexate ( n=29) or mycophenolate mofetil ( n=3). The median age of the patients was 55 years (range: 23-72). The reasons to perform a dose-reduced conditioning were reduced performance status ( n=14), age ( n=12), prior autologous ( n=5) or allogeneic ( n=1) transplantation, or prior/active fungal infection ( n=5). Diagnoses at transplantation were refractory anemia (RA) ( n=8), refractory anemia with excess of blasts (RAEB) ( n=6), RAEB in transformation (RAEB-T) ( n=13), chronic myelomonocytic leukemia (CMML) ( n=3), and sAML ( n=7). Stem cell sources were peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) ( n=29) or bone marrow ( n=8). One patient received a T-cell-depleted peripheral stem cell graft. Two primary graft failures were observed (6%). Engraftment of leukocytes (>1.0x10(9)/l) and platelets (>20x10(9)/l) was seen after a median of 14 days. Acute GVHD grade II-IV was seen in 37%, while severe grade III/IV GVHD was observed in six patients (17%). Chronic GVHD was seen in 13 patients (48%). There were ten deaths (27%) due to treatment (TRM). The probability of TRM was higher in patients with unrelated donors (45 vs 12%, p=0.03) and in patients with poor cytogenetics in comparison to those with a low or intermediate karyotype (75 vs 20%, p=0.009). During follow-up 12 patients relapsed (32%). Patients without chronic GVHD had a significantly higher probability of relapse compared to those with chronic GVHD (70 vs 15%, p=0.02). After a median follow-up of 20 months, the 3-year estimated disease-free survival (DFS) is 38% [95% confidence interval (CI): 21-55%] and the overall survival (OS) is 39% (95% CI: 22-56%). The OS and DFS after related and unrelated transplantations was 45% (95% CI: 19-71%) vs 31% (95% CI: 9-53%) (n.s.) and 51% (95% CI: 29-73%) vs 25% (95% CI: 4-47%) (n.s.), respectively. We conclude that dose-reduced conditioning followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation from related or unrelated donors is an effective treatment approach in patients with MDS/sAML and might cure a substantial number of patients who are not eligible for a standard allogeneic transplantation.
Fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide for the treatment of advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Therapeutic results in advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) are still unsatisfactory in terms of complete remission achievement and duration, in spite of the extensive use of purine analogs. The objective of this study was to describe the clinical characteristics and treatment results from a series of 32 patients managed with a therapeutic program based on the combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (CTX).
Safety and outcome after fludarabine-thiotepa-TBI conditioning for allogeneic transplantation: a prospective study of 30 patients with hematologic malignancies.	Fludarabine, thiotepa and total body irradiation (TBI) has been used as conditioning in haplo-identical transplantation. We studied this conditioning regimen in adults undergoing matched sibling transplantation and alternative donor transplantation. A total of 30 consecutive patients underwent matched related, haplo-identical related or matched unrelated donor transplantation with fludarabine, thiotepa and TBI conditioning. All but four had advanced hematologic malignancies. For haplo-identical transplant, ATG was added to the regimen. All patients received peripheral blood stem cells; these were T-cell depleted for 2-antigen or 3-antigen mismatched related transplantation. Additional graft-versus-host disease prophylaxis consisted of tacrolimus and mini-methotrexate. One recipient of haplo-identical transplant failed to engraft; all other evaluable patients had prompt engraftment. Four patients died of regimen-related toxicity. In all, 14 additional patients died of regimen-related causes including four from failure to thrive with persistent thrombocytopenia and four from delayed pulmonary toxicity. Six patients relapsed. Progression-free survival at 12 months was 47% (90% CI: 25-69%) for recipients of HLA-identical sibling transplants and 30% (90% CI: 14-46%) for all patients. Five of six long-term survivors have extensive chronic GVHD. As a result of the delayed complications and a relatively high recurrence rate, we abandoned this regimen.
Gemtuzumab ozogamicin, fludarabine, cytarabine and cyclosporine combination regimen in patients with CD33+ primary resistant or relapsed acute myeloid leukemia.	Clinical resistance to gemtuzumab ozogamicin (Mylotarg) in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) is associated with blast multidrug resistance (MDR) phenotype. A Phase II study of Mylotarg, fludarabine, ara-C and the MDR-modifier, cyclosporine (CSA) (MFAC) was conducted in 32 patients with primary resistant (11, 34%) or relapsed (21, 66%) AML. Nine (28%) patients obtained complete remission (CR), two (6%) CR with incomplete platelet recovery. Overall median survival was 5.3 months, 12-month survival rate 19%. Fourteen patients (44%) developed grade 3/4 hyperbilirubinemia; six (18%) grade 3/4 hepatic transaminitis; three (9%) hepatic veno-occlusive disease (VOD). CSA inclusion in gemtuzumab ozogamicin-based regimens is feasible. MFAC is an effective regimen for refractory AML.
Purine nucleoside analogues and combination therapies in B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia: dawn of a new era.	Purine nucleoside analogues are unique drugs that are effective in a variety of hematologic malignancies. Fludarabine and 2-chlorodeoxyadenosine (2-CdA) are active in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) both as salvage therapy and in newly diagnosed patients. These agents have revolutionized therapeutic strategies for patients with CLL that had remained unchanged for many years and included alkylating agents-based therapy with no potential for long-term remission or cure. Purine analogues have also been successfully combined with a variety of other chemotherapeutic drugs such as mitoxantrone, cyclophosphamide, corticosteroids, and monoclonal antibodies, specifically Rituximab and CAMPATH-1H. These agents are immunosuppressive and have been associated with opportunistic infections, the incidence of which can be significantly reduced by early recognition and administration of prophylactic antibiotics. In this review, the activity and toxicity of 2-CdA, fludarabine, and pentostatin in CLL as single agents and in combination with conventional chemotherapy are discussed. These drugs are increasingly used as initial therapy in CLL. Such strategies are associated with higher remission rates than have been previously achieved and in some cases, molecular remission, suggesting an important step towards cure.
The value of fludarabine in addition to ARA-C and G-CSF in the treatment of patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndromes and AML in elderly patients.	Fludarabine in addition to cytosine-arabinoside (ARA-C) increases the accumulation of ARA-C-5'-triphosphate (ARA-CTP), which is responsible for the cytotoxic effect in leukemic blasts. In a randomized phase 3 trial, patients with high-risk myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) (n = 91) or elderly patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) (n = 43) were randomized to receive 2 induction courses consisting of ARA-C (2 g/m2 days 1 through 5) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) (filgrastim, 5 microg/kg) during and after chemotherapy with or without fludarabine (25 mg/m2, days 1 through 5) (FLAG versus AG). Consolidation consisted of daunorubicin (45 mg/m2, days 1 through 3) and ARA-C (200 mg/m2, days 1 through 7). Complete remission (CR) rate following AG was 65% versus 71% with FLAG (P =.49). Overall survival (OS) at 24 months was 24% for AG treatment and 39% for FLAG (P =.32). Event-free survival (EFS) at 2 years was 10% and 19% (P =.31) for the AG and FLAG treatments, respectively. Platelet and granulocyte recovery times after the second cycle were prolonged in the FLAG treatment group. Grades 3 to 4 neurotoxicities were more often reported in the FLAG arm (14% versus 3%, P =.03), whereas no significant differences in other toxicities were observed. In a cohort of patients, the in vivo accumulation of ARA-CTP in leukemic cells was determined. Although ARA-CTP accumulation in leukemic cells after FLAG was enhanced, clinical outcome in terms of CR rate, OS, EFS, and disease-free survival (DFS) was not significantly improved by combining fludarabine with ARA-C.
Oral fludarabine therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukemia--increased convenience.	Intravenous fludarabine is a well-established therapy for the first-line treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and the standard of care for second-line treatment. More recently, an oral formulation of fludarabine has been developed, with equivalent efficacy and tolerability to the intravenous formulation, but with improved convenience of administration and potentially greater cost effectiveness. In previously treated patients receiving oral fludarabine monotherapy, overall response rates of 46-51% were achieved, depending on the response criteria used. Oral fludarabine is also an effective first-line treatment, both as monotherapy (overall response 72-80%) and in combination with cyclophosphamide (overall response 80%). Infusion-related adverse effects are eliminated with oral administration. Importantly, WHO performance status is maintained or improved in more than 50% of patients. As oral fludarabine can be taken at home, administration costs are greatly reduced due to fewer physician and nursing interventions and less time spent in hospital. Oral fludarabine was approved first in the UK as second-line therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia and, based on its ease of administration and potentially greater cost effectiveness, is recommended in preference to the intravenous formulation by the UK National Institute for Clinical Excellence. The oral formulation is also now available in the majority of European countries. Therefore, with equivalent efficacy and tolerability to the intravenous preparation, oral fludarabine gives the hematologist an important new option in the management of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.
Addition of rituximab to fludarabine may prolong progression-free survival and overall survival in patients with previously untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia: an updated retrospective comparative analysis of CALGB 9712 and CALGB 9011.	Fludarabine and rituximab combination therapies in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) have yielded promising early results, but no comparative efficacy data relative to standard fludarabine treatment regimens have been reported. To assess the effect of the addition of rituximab to fludarabine therapy, we retrospectively compared the treatment outcome of patients with similar clinical characteristics enrolled on 2 multicenter clinical trials performed by the Cancer and Leukemia Group B and the US Intergroup that used fludarabine and rituximab (CALGB 9712, n = 104) or fludarabine (CALGB 9011, n = 178). In multivariate analyses controlling for pretreatment characteristics, the patients receiving fludarabine and rituximab had a significantly better progression-free survival (PFS; P < .0001) and overall survival (OS; P = .0006) than patients receiving fludarabine therapy. Two-year PFS probabilities were 0.67 versus 0.45, and 2-year OS probabilities were 0.93 versus 0.81. Infectious toxicity was similar between the 2 treatment approaches. These comparative data are retrospective and could be confounded by differences in supportive care or dissimilar enrollment of genetic subsets on each trial. Confirmation of these findings will require a prospective randomized trial comparing fludarabine and rituximab to fludarabine.
Favourable outcome for patients with myeloid disorders treated with fludarabine-melphalan reduced-intensity conditioning and allogeneic bone marrow stem cell transplantation without the use of T-lymphocyte-depleting antibodies.	We report the use of reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC)-matched sibling allogeneic bone marrow stem cell transplantation as a method of establishing a graft-vs.-leukaemia (GvL) effect against myeloid disorders using a fludarabine-melphalan protocol without the use of T-lymphocyte-depleting antibodies. The 16 patients in this group had predominantly poor-risk acute myeloid leukaemia (AML) (n=10), AML/myelodysplasia (MDS) (n=2) and MDS (n=4). All but one patient achieved full haematopoietic engraftment. Thirteen of 16 patients are alive and in continued complete remission on completion of this study with a median follow-up of 426 d (range 83-1524). The actuarial 4 yr disease-free and overall survival is 79% for both. Only one patient relapsed following transplant, giving a relapse rate of 6% during the study period. The treatment-related mortality was 13% (n= 2). Overall, acute graft-vs.-host disease (GvHD) occurred in 53% (8/15), with acute GvHD grade II or above occurring in 47% (7/15). In the 13 evaluable patients, chronic GvHD occurred in 46% (6/13), with this being extensive in three patients. These results suggest that a GvL effect can be delivered against poor-risk myeloid disorders with a low non-relapse mortality using this fludarabine-melphalan RIC protocol.
Quantitative analysis of nucleoside transporter and metabolism gene expression in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL): identification of fludarabine-sensitive and -insensitive populations.	Resistance to fludarabine is observed in the clinic, and molecular predictive assays for benefit from chemotherapy are required. Our objective was to determine if expression of nucleoside transport and metabolism genes was associated with response to fludarabine therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). CLL cells from 56 patients were collected prior to treatment with fludarabine. Quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) was performed on sample RNA to determine the relative levels of mRNA of 3 nucleoside transporters that mediate fludarabine uptake (human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 1 [hENT1], human equilibrative nucleoside transporter 2 [hENT2], and human concentrative nucleoside transporter 3 [hCNT3]), deoxycytidine kinase (dCK), and 3 5'-nucleotidases (ecto-5'nucleotidase [CD73], deoxynucleotidase-1 [dNT-1], and cytoplasmic high-Km 5-nucleotidase [CN-II]). Two-dimensional hierarchical cluster analysis of gene expression identified 2 distinct populations of CLL. Cluster 2 patients experienced a 3.4-fold higher risk of disease progression than cluster 1 patients (P = .0058, log-rank analysis). Furthermore, independent analysis of the individual genes of interest revealed statistically significant differences for risk of disease progression (adjusted hazard ratios [HRs]) with underexpression of dNT-1 (HR = 0.45; P = .042), CD73 (HR = 0.40; P = .022), and dCK (HR = 0.0.48; P = .035), and overexpression of hCNT3 (HR = 4.7; P = .0007) genes. Subjects with elevated hCNT3 expression experienced a lower complete response rate to fludarabine therapy (11% vs 69%; P = .002). No hCNT3-mediated plasma membrane nucleoside transport was detected in CLL samples expressing hCNT3 message, and hCNT3 protein was localized to the cytoplasm with immunohistochemical and confocal microscopy.
Reduced-intensity conditioning using TBI (8 Gy), fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and ATG in elderly CML patients provides excellent results especially when performed in the early course of the disease.	Allogeneic bone marrow or stem cell transplantation is a curative therapeutic option for chronic myelogenous leukemia. In order to decrease the toxicity of the procedure, the dosage of total body irradiation was reduced from 12 to 8 Gy and subsequently the dose of cyclophosphamide from 120 to 80 mg/kg. The purine analogue fludarabine, ATG, cyclosporine A and a short course of methotrexate were given for immune suppression. So far, 35 elderly CML patients with sibling and unrelated donors have been transplanted. Transplant-related mortality at day + 100 was 11%. After engraftment, all patients achieved a complete cytogenetic remission. Relapse occurred in 14% of the patients. The risk of relapse was significantly higher in those patients transplanted in second chronic or accelerated phase (P = 0.048). After a median follow-up of 30 months (range 12-62), 63% of the patients are alive. Those patients transplanted within the first year from diagnosis had an overall survival of 79% (P = 0.049), emphasizing the benefit of early transplantation. Stepwise reduction of conditioning intensity resulted in stable engraftment, low relapse rates and encouraging overall survival in this high-risk patient group.
Reduced-intensity conditioning regimen with thiotepa and fludarabine followed by allogeneic blood stem cell transplantation in haematological malignancies.	The aim of this study was to investigate thiotepa (TT) and fludarabine (Fluda) as a preparative regimen for allogeneic peripheral stem cell transplant in patients not eligible for a standard myeloablative regimen due to comorbidities and/or poor performance status. TT was given at a dose of 10 mg/kg over 2 days and Fluda at 125 mg/m(2) over 5 days. In all, 21 patients (14 male, seven female; 10 acute leukaemia, eight myelodysplastic syndrome, two non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, one Hodgkin's disease) were treated. The median age was 51 years (range 30-55 years). All patients achieved full donor-type chimaerism. Adverse events included mild nausea and vomiting in two patients and a slight increase of serum amylase in three. A total of 13 patients received RBC transfusions (median 6 U, range 1-23), and all received platelets (median 4 U, range 1-27). Four patients died of nonrelapse causes and five of relapse. The 1-year probabilities of transplant-related mortality and relapse were 19 and 29%, respectively. In total, 12 patients remain in complete remission (median follow-up: 786 days). The 3-year overall survival probability was 58%. We conclude that this regimen is feasible and well tolerated.
Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for multiply transfused patients with sickle cell disease and thalassemia after low-dose total body irradiation, fludarabine, and rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin.	Patients with sickle cell disease (N = 3) and thalassemia (N = 1) with high-risk features received hematopoietic stem cell transplantations (HCT) to induce stable (full or partial) donor engraftment. Patients were 9-30 years of age. Fludarabine, rabbit anti-thymocyte globulin (ATG), and 200 cGy total body irradiation were administered pre-transplant. Patients received bone marrow (N = 3) or peripheral blood stem cells (N = 1) from HLA-identical siblings, followed by mycophenolate mofetil and cyclosporine for post-grafting immunosuppression. Significant lymphopenia, but only moderate neutropenia and thrombocytopenia developed post transplant. No grade IV nonhematological toxicities or acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) were observed. At 3 months after transplantation, three of four patients had evidence of donor myeloid chimerism (range, 15-100%). However, after post transplant immunosuppression was discontinued, graft rejection occurred in all but one patient. This patient is now doing well 27 months post transplant with full donor engraftment. One patient died after a second transplant, and another patient experienced a stroke as her graft was being rejected. These results suggest that stable donor engraftment after nonmyeloablative HCT is difficult to achieve among immunocompetent patients with hemoglobinopathies and that new approaches will need to be developed before wider application of this transplantation method for hemoglobinopathies.
Low-dose oral fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide in elderly patients with chronic lymphoproliferative disorders.	A synergistic effect of fludarabine (FLU) and cyclophosphamide (CY) has been extensively demonstrated in the treatment of chronic lymphoproliferative disorders (CLD), although a high incidence of severe neutropenia and infectious complications, particularly in elderly patients, have been reported. Based on a previous clinical experience in elderly CLD patients treated with a combination of low-dose intravenous (i.v.) FLU and CY in whom we obtained good response rates and negligible toxicity, we tested efficacy and safety of the new oral formulation of FLU combined with CY at low doses. A total of 28 elderly patients with relapsed/refractory or untreated CLD were treated with oral FLU and CY (25 and 150 mg/m2 respectively, both for 4 days every 4 weeks). The treatment design consisted in four consecutive courses and the median value of courses per patient was 3. Overall, 25 out of 28 evaluable patients were responsive to the treatment (six CR and 19 PR; ORR 89%), while the remaining three patients did not show any appreciable response (two progressive and one stable disease). Hematological toxicity was low in the majority of patients (grade 2-3 neutropenia/anemia in 8/28 cases); however, two fatal infections occurred and one additional patient died because of disease progression. Extra-hematological toxicity was generally mild. This preliminary report suggests that oral combination of FLU and CY at low dose is effective as the i.v. formulation and standard doses, since it may induce rapid responses in about 90% of elderly patients with CLD, with an acceptable toxicity.
Acute tumour lysis syndrome after oral fludarabine in a patient with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.	Acute tumour lysis syndrome (TLS) is a very rare complication of cytotoxic therapy in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL). We report a patient with CLL who developed tumour lysis syndrome twice after oral fludarabine therapy. Both times TLS developed more than 2 weeks after the initiation of therapy. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of TLS in CLL precipitated by oral fludarabine.
Engraftment and survival following reduced-intensity allogeneic peripheral blood hematopoietic cell transplantation is affected by CD8+ T-cell dose.	The influence of graft composition on clinical outcomes after reduced-intensity conditioning is not well-characterized. In this report we prospectively enumerated CD34+, CD3+, CD4+, and CD8+ cell doses in granulocyte colony-stimulating factor-mobilized peripheral blood mononuclear cell (G-PBMC) allografts in 63 patients who received transplants following non-myeloablative conditioning with total body irradiation 200 cGy plus fludarabine as treatment for malignant diseases. Donors were HLA-identical siblings (n = 38) or HLA-matched unrelated individuals (n = 25). By univariate analyses G-PBMC CD8+ T-cell dose in at least the 50th percentile favorably correlated with full donor blood T-cell chimerism (P = .03), freedom from progression (P = .001), and overall survival (P = .01). No G-PBMC cell dose influenced grade II to IV acute or extensive chronic graft-versus-host disease. In multivariate analysis only G-PBMC CD8+ T-cell dose (P = .003; RR = 0.2, 95% CI = 0.1-0.6) was associated with improved freedom from progression. Infusion of low G-PBMC CD8+ T-cell dose for reduced-intensity allografting may adversely affect T-cell engraftment and survival outcome.
Evaluation of the clinical effectivity and toxicity of the FDN regimen (fludarabin, mitoxantron, dexamethason) in patients with follicular lymphoma]	One of the perspective therapeutic possibilities in follicular lymphomas (FL) is the fludarabine-based regimen FND (fludarabine, mitoxantron, dexamethason). However serious signs of myelotoxicity and significant immunosuppression with appearance of the opportunistic infections were described after the fludarabine treatment.
Allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation for metastatic renal cell carcinoma after nonmyeloablative conditioning: toxicity, clinical response, and immunological response to minor histocompatibility antigens.	This phase I trial assessed the safety, efficacy, and immunologic responses to minor histocompatibility antigens following nonmyeloablative allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation as treatment for metastatic renal cell carcinoma.
Phase II study of fludarabine and alpha-interferon in patients with low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL) remains incurable with standard dose chemotherapy. Nucleoside analogs such as fludarabine are effective, but even when used as initial therapy, the median duration of remission ranges from only 16 to 24 months. Interferon (IFN) is also active and has been investigated both by incorporating it into the chemotherapy regimen and/or as maintenance therapy, where it may prolong remission. We designed a phase II trial of alternating fludarabine and IFNalpha2a to determine response rate, time to progression and toxicity of this regimen in patients with advanced stage low-grade NHL or mantle cell lymphoma.
Acute renal failure and disseminated intravascular coagulation following an idiosyncratic reaction to Alemtuzumab (Campath 1H) or fludarabine.	Alemtuzumab (Campath 1H) is a recombinant DNA derived humanized monoclonal antibody which targets CD52 antigens on B and T cells. It is increasingly used as a conditioning agent for bone marrow transplantation. We describe the case of a 37 year old woman who developed acute renal failure and disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) following one dose of Campath and Fludarabine. Campath was thought to be the most likely causal agent although Fludarabine alone or in combination with Campath cannot be excluded. Despite there being many documented side effects of Campath there are currently no reports in the literature of acute renal failure and DIC. The transplant had to be aborted and 9 months on the patient is still requiring dialysis twice a week.
Marrow transplants from matched unrelated donors for aplastic anaemia using alemtuzumab, fludarabine and cyclophosphamide based conditioning.	Graft failure, regimen-related toxicity and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) are the critical barriers to unrelated donor transplants for aplastic anaemia (AA). We investigated the use of a novel conditioning regimen consisting of alemtuzumab (humanized CD52 antibody), fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in seven patients with AA, who underwent bone marrow transplant procedure using matched unrelated donors. The aetiology of AA was acquired (n=3), Fanconi's (n=3) and congenital (n=1). Median age was 13 years (range 8-35). All the donors were fully matched for HLA class I and II antigens using high-resolution typing. All the patients engrafted at a median of 18 days (range 13-35). Two patients died of transplant-related complications: one of adenovirus disease and the other developed extensive chronic GVHD of skin followed by cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease. Three patients developed Grade II acute GVHD disease (GVHD); none had Grade III-IV acute GVHD. Of the six evaluable patients, only one developed chronic GVHD. We conclude that this conditioning regimen for unrelated donor transplants for AA is sufficiently immunosuppressive to allow stable engraftment and appears to have a favourable impact on the incidence and severity of GVHD, warranting further investigation.
Long-term follow-up of a randomized trial of fludarabine-mitoxantrone, compared with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vindesine, prednisone (CHVP), as first-line treatment of elderly patients with advanced, low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma before the era of monoclonal antibodies.	This randomized study compared the efficacy and safety of fludarabine-mitoxantrone (FM) with mini-CHVP (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vindesine, prednisone) in elderly patients with advanced, low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Pilot study of reduced-intensity conditioning followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation from related and unrelated donors in patients with myelofibrosis.	A prospective pilot study was performed to evaluate the effect of reduced-intensity conditioning with busulphan (10 mg/kg), fludarabine (180 mg/qm) and anti-thymocyte globulin followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation from related (n = 8) and unrelated donors (n = 13) in 21 patients with myelofibrosis. The median age of the patients was 53 years (range, 32-63). No primary graft failure occurred. The median time until leucocyte (>1.0 x 10(9)/l) and platelet (>20 x 10(9)/l) engraftment was 16 (range, 11-26) and 23 d (range, 9-139) respectively. Complete donor chimaerism on day 100 was seen in 20 patients (95%). Acute graft-versus-host disease (GvHD) grades II-IV and III/IV occurred in 48% and 19% of cases and 55% of the patients had chronic GvHD. Treatment-related mortality was 0% at day 100 and 16% [95% confidence interval (CI): 0-32%] at 1 year. Haematological response was seen in 100% and complete histopathological remission was observed in 75% of the patients and 25% of the patients showed partial histopathological remission with a continuing decline in the grade of fibrosis. After a median follow-up of 22 months (range, 4-59), the 3-year estimated overall and disease-free survival was 84% (95% CI: 67-100%).
Myelodysplasia and acute myeloid leukemia following therapy for indolent lymphoma with fludarabine, mitoxantrone, and dexamethasone (FND) plus rituximab and interferon alpha.	Treatment-related myelodysplasia (t-MDS) occurs less frequently with the nucleoside analogs than with DNA-damaging agents such as alkylators or topoisomerase II inhibitors. In a chemoimmunotherapy trial conducted between 1997 and 2003 in patients with stage IV indolent lymphoma, 202 patients were treated and 8 have developed MDS between 1 and 5 years after therapy, including 4 who received only fludarabine, mitoxantrone, and dexamethasone (FND) for 6 to 8 courses, with or without rituximab, followed by interferon alpha (IFN-alpha). Complex cytogenetic abnormalities were present in all patients. Abnormalities of chromosome 7 were present in 6 of the 8 patients, 3 of whom received only FND +/- rituximab and IFN-alpha. The abnormalities of chromosome 7 were monosomy 7 in 4 patients (1 of which had add 7p in the remaining chromosome); 1 del 7q; and 1 der 7. MDS with features classically associated with DNA-damaging agents can occur following therapy with FND, with or without rituximab, and IFN-alpha.
Fludarabine: new indication. First-line treatment of CLL: unconvincing evidence.	(1) Oral chlorambucil is the reference first-line treatment for patients with symptomatic chronic lymphocytic leukaemia. Intravenous fludarabine is a second-line option. (2) The indications for intravenous fludarabine have now been extended to cover first-line use. (3) The clinical evaluation dossier mainly contains data from two unblinded comparative trials. One trial compared intravenous fludarabine with chlorambucil in 509 patients for one year; the complete remission rate was significantly higher in the group receiving intravenous fludarabine (20% versus 4%) but, after 62 months of follow-up, the survival rate was no different (about 50% in both groups). Note that the dose of chlorambucil used in this trial may have been inadequate. (4) The other unblinded trial included 938 patients treated for six months with fludarabine, the CAP protocol, or the CHOP protocol. The median survival time did not differ among the three groups (67 to 70 months). (5) In the trial versus chlorambucil, the incidence of serious adverse events was significantly higher in the fludarabine group (55% of patients, versus 44%). The commonest serious adverse events were neutropenia, other haematological disturbances, and infections. (6) Oral chlorambucil is more convenient than intravenous fludarabine, which necessitates five infusions per month. Intravenous fludarabine costs 10 times more than oral chlorambucil. (7) In practice, chlorambucil remains the reference first-line treatment for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.
Mobilization of peripheral blood stem cells in CLL patients after front-line fludarabine treatment.	Autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation is performed in an increasing number of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) patients who are in the first remission following fludarabine treatment. There are contradictory data about the adverse impact of fludarabine on stem cell harvest. We analysed retrospectively mobilization results in 56 poor-risk CLL patients (median age: 56 years) who underwent first-line treatment with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide. The mobilization, consisting of cyclophosphamide 3 g/m(2) and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) 10 microg/kg per day, was performed with a median of 77 days following the last fludarabine course. The target yield was >or=2.0x10(6) CD34+ cells/kg. The procedure was successful in 23 (41%) patients. A median of 3.3x10(6) CD34+ cells/kg was collected per patient. The successful mobilization was associated with a longer interval from the last chemotherapy (>2 months). The mobilization result was not influenced by the number of fludarabine cycles. No correlation was found in other parameters such as disease stage at diagnosis, disease status at stimulation or age. The poorly mobilized patients had significantly lower prestimulation blood counts (platelets, WBC and haemoglobin). Our data show that fludarabine does not generally prevent the stem cell mobilization; nevertheless, mechanisms related to the impact of fludarabine on stem cell harvest must be further investigated.
Hematopoietic cell transplantation from HLA-identical sibling donors after low-dose radiation-based conditioning for treatment of CML.	A total of 24 patients (median age 58; range, 27-71 years) with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) in first chronic (CP1) (n=14), second chronic (n=4), or accelerated phase (n=6) who were not candidates for conventional hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT), received nonmyeloablative HCT from HLA-matched siblings a median of 28.5 (range, 11-271) months after diagnosis. They were conditioned with 2 Gy total body irradiation (TBI) alone (n=8) or combined with fludarabine, 90 mg/m(2) (n=16). Postgrafting immunosuppression included cyclosporine and mycophenolate mofetil. All patients initially engrafted. However, 4 of 8 patients not given fludarabine experienced nonfatal rejection while all others had sustained engraftment. With a median follow-up of 36 (range, 4-49) months, 13 of 24 patients (54%) were alive and in complete remission. There were five (21%) deaths from nonrelapse mortality, one (4%) during the first 100 days after transplant. The proportions of grade II, III, and IV acute GVHD were 38, 4, and 8%, respectively. The 2-year estimate of chronic GVHD was 32%. The 2-year survival estimates for patients in CP1 (n=14) and beyond CP1 (n=10) were 70 and 56%, respectively. This study shows encouraging remission rates for patients with CML not eligible for conventional allografting.
CD52 and CD45 monoclonal antibodies for reduced intensity hemopoietic stem cell transplantation from HLA matched and one antigen mismatched unrelated donors.	Allogeneic hemopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative option for many patients with hematological malignancies. Since many of these patients lack HLA-identical sibling donors and are older or have comorbidity, a fully ablative HSCT is not feasible and an alternative approach is required. We studied 22 consecutive patients who could not have myeloablative conditioning because of comorbidity or age - 21/22 being over the age of 50 years (median 58 years range 20-70 years). A conditioning regimen consisting of fludarabine, total body radiation 450 cGy and alemtuzumab (CD52 mAb) was used for 15 patients. A second group of seven patients received CD45 monoclonal antibodies in addition. Unrelated donor stem cells were HLA matched (15 patients - 68%) or one locus mismatched (seven patients - 32%). In all, 16 patients had high-risk disease, including 12 with active malignancy at the time of transplant. With a median follow-up of 715 (216-1470) days, nonrelapse mortality, actuarial event-free and overall survival is 27, 45 and 45%, respectively. Hence the outcome of reduced intensity HSCT with lymphodepleting antibodies in older patients with intermediate/high-risk hematological malignancies appears comparable to that obtained with fully ablative transplantation in younger patients, even when these older recipients lack HLA-identical sibling donors.
Reduced intensity conditioning compared to standard conditioning preserves the in vitro growth capacity of bone marrow stroma, which remains of host origin.	The ability of bone marrow (BM) samples to generate confluent stromal layers in long-term BM cultures (LTBMC) was used as a surrogate assay to determine the in vivo toxic effects of different conditionings on stromal cells. Here, 32 patients receiving a fludarabine-based reduced intensity conditioning regimen (FBM) were compared to those in a control group of 23 patients treated with standard busulfan/cyclophosphamide (BuCy; 14 patients) or TBI-based (TBI 12 Gy/VP16/cyclophosphamide; 9 patients) conditioning. BM was aspirated before conditioning, and at day +30 and/or at day +100, obtaining positive stromal cell growth in vitro in 58%, 47%, and 65%, respectively. FBM conditioning did not alter the ability of BM to generate stromal layers both early (day +30, 75%+) or late (day +100, 80%+) after hematopoietic cell transplantation (HCT) as compared to pre-HCT (66.6%+). FBM-treated patients formed confluent stroma significantly more often than standard-treated patients (85% vs. 38% patients; p < 0.05). In an univariate analysis, standard conditioning remained the only factor predicting stromal growth impairment after allogeneic HCT. The ex vivo-generated stromal layers from 5 female, FBM treated, sex-mismatched, and peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplanted patients were analyzed by combined FISH-Y and immunofluorescence stains (Vimentin, CD14, CD45) and found to be exclusively of recipient origin. We conclude that FBM reduced intensity conditioning results in reduced, if any, stromal damage as compared to standard myeloablative treatment. The novel, donor-derived, hematopoiesis in FBM patients after allogeneic transplantation is supported and maintained by a host-derived BM stromal microenvironment.
Early and late infectious consequences of adding rituximab to fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in patients with indolent lymphoid malignancies.	Whether the addition of rituximab to fludarabine and cyclosphosphamide (FC) increases early or late infection risk remains poorly defined. This retrospective analysis of 160 patients treated with FC+/-rituximab found no evidence of increased infection among patients receiving FC+rituximab, providing some evidence of safety for the continued exploration of this regimen.
Reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic blood stem cell transplantation with fludarabine and oral busulfan with or without pharmacokinetically targeted busulfan dosing in patients with myeloid leukemia ineligible for conventional conditioning.	We prospectively compared outcomes after a fludarabine (Flu) plus oral busulfan (Bu)-containing reduced-intensity conditioning regimen (150 mg/m2 Flu and 10 mg/kg oral Bu), with (n = 32; Flu- T Bu group) or without (n = 30; Flu-Bu group) therapeutic dose monitoring and dose adjustment of Bu. All patients received peripheral blood stem cells from a genoidentical sibling, and study cohorts had similar patient characteristics. Dose adjustments of Bu were required in 20 (63%) patients in the Flu- T Bu group (median final dose, 8.89 mg/kg; range, 6.3-13.34 mg/kg). Donor T-cell and granulocyte engraftments were similar, and early conditioning-related toxicities were mild and similar in both study groups. With a median follow-up of 45 months (51 months in the 37 survivors), posttransplantation outcomes did not differ between cohorts. The strongest predictor of 2-year overall survival and leukemia-free survival was the presence of chronic graft-versus-host disease (77% versus 34% for overall survival and 74% versus 34% for leukemia-free survival; P < .001 for both outcomes). In conclusion, therapeutic dose monitoring of oral Bu in a reduced-intensity conditioning setting does not seem to affect outcome, although further studies may identify very-high-risk patients who benefit from this strategy.
Effect of a combined exposure to cytosine arabinoside, bryostatin 1, and recombinant granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor on the clonogenic growth in vitro of normal and leukemic human hematopoietic progenitor cells.	We have examined the effect of a combined 24 h exposure to cytosine arabinoside (ara-C) and the protein kinase C activator bryostatin 1, either alone or in conjunction with recombinant granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor (rGM-CSF), on the clonogenic growth of 14 primary samples from acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) patients, as well as normal human committed and early hematopoietic progenitors. Incubation of blasts with 1 microM ara-C and 12.5 nM bryostatin 1(+/- 1.25 ng/ml rGM-CSF) resulted in a heterogeneous pattern of inhibitory effects toward primary leukemic colonies, ranging from 32-98%, and subadditive to synergistic drug interactions. However, exposure of blasts to ara-C and bryostatin 1, either with or without rGM-CSF, eliminated leukemic cell self-renewal in 80-93% of samples, and very substantially reduced growth in the remainder. Exposure of normal human bone marrow mononuclear cells to identical concentrations of ara-C and byostatin 1 permitted the survival of 23% of committed myeloid progenitors (granulocyte-macrophage colony-forming units), and greater than 50% when rGM-CSF was included. Finally, exposure of bone marrow populations highly enriched for progenitor cells (CD34+, DR-, CD71-) to ara-C and bryostatin 1 +/- rGM-CSF for 24 h led to minimal reductions (e.g. 10-15%) in the survival of early hematopoietic progenitors (high proliferative potential colony-forming cells). Together, these findings indicate that combined exposure in vitro to ara-C and bryostatin 1, both with and without rGM-CSF, effectively inhibits the growth of leukemic cells with self-renewal capacity, while sparing a significant fraction of normal committed and primitive hematopoietic progenitors.
Low-dose thalidomide in combination with oral fludarabine and cyclophosphamide is ineffective in heavily pre-treated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Elevated levels of TNF-alpha have been associated with progressive disease in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). Thalidomide has been shown to inhibit production of TNF-alpha. We investigated the effects of thalidomide on clinical outcome and TNF-alpha serum levels in five pre-treated CLL patients. The schedule consisted on daily thalidomide (Thal), oral fludarabine (Flu) and oral cyclophosphamide (CTX). Median duration of treatment was 60 days; four patients stopped treatment for disease progression and one patient for neurological toxicity. Serum TNF-alpha levels did not show any decrease during treatment. Low-dose thalidomide is not effective in CLL patients with refractory disease.
A study of a reduced-intensity conditioning regimen followed by allogeneic stem cell transplantation for patients with hematologic malignancies using Campath-1H as part of a graft-versus-host disease strategy.	Nonmyeloablative transplantation (NMT) is intended to be less toxic than traditional allografts, but such regimens as fludarabine/melphalan still pose a significant risk of graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). We used Campath-1H in an attempt to reduce the risk of GVHD in NMT. Patients with hematologic malignancies suitable for allogeneic transplantation underwent transplantation using a regimen of fludarabine 30 mg/m(2) on days -5 to -2 (total, 120 mg/m(2)), total body irradiation of 200 cGy on day -1, and Campath-1H 20 mg/day on days -7 to -3 (total dose, 100 mg). After loss of graft in 5 of the first 6 patients, the protocol was amended by decreasing the Campath-1H dose to 20 mg on days -4 and -3 and 10 mg on day -2 (total dose, 50 mg) for all subsequent patients. GVHD prophylaxis consisted of only cyclosporine, due to the immunosuppressive effect of Campath-1H. Patients received prophylactic acyclovir, fluconazole, and a quinolone. Other requirements included creatinine clearance > or = 25 mL/min, diffusing capacity > or = 45% of predicted, and cardiac ejection fraction > or = 40%. Twenty-five patients with hematologic malignancies entered the study. The median age was 40 years (range, 26-71 years). Median time to engraftment (defined as a neutrophil count of 500 mm(3) and a platelet count of 20,000 mm(3) without platelet support on at least 2 days) was 19 days (range, 9-32 days). All patients who were treated after the amendment engrafted with 90%-100% donor cells by day 100 except for 2 early deaths. Acute GVHD developed in 40% of the patients. Patients who underwent related transplants developed GVHD after donor lymphocyte infusions for poor engraftment or relapse whereas those undergoing unrelated transplants developed GVHD de novo. Two patients (8%) developed chronic GVHD, and 48% had cytomegalovirus reactivation, which was easily managed medically. Nonrelapse mortality within the first 12 months was 12%; 32% of the patients survived at a median of 269 days. We conclude that Campath-1H, fludarabine, and melphalan is a reasonable preparative regimen for reduced-intensity transplantation with a low nonrelapse mortality, but that issues of GVHD remain problematic, due to either the use of donor lymphocyte infusions or the use of volunteer unrelated donors.
Fludarabine in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.	Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is the most common leukaemia in the Western world. Historically, CLL patients have received prednisone- or chlorambucil-containing regimens, resulting in modest responses and a slim chance of long-term survival. The addition of purine nucleoside analogues, specifically fludarabine, to the armamentarium has significantly improved efficacy in treatment-naive or heavily pretreated CLL patients. Since the 1980s, fludarabine monotherapy has demonstrated an improvement in response over historical chemotherapeutic agents. Single-agent fludarabine therapy has expanded into a combination regimen containing cyclophosphamide and has further evolved to incorporate monoclonal antibodies. A review of the fludarabine literature shows that these advancements in fludarabine-containing therapy have enhanced the overall patient response with a potential increase in survival time, thus representing progress towards a superior treatment for CLL.
Concomitant Epstein-Barr virus-negative large B-cell lymphoma (Richter syndrome) and Epstein-Barr virus- positive B-cell lymphoproliferation after treatment with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in a patient with B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	We report the case of a patient treated with a combination of fludarabine and cyclophosphamide after suffering from B-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia for 10 years. Three months after treatment, the patient presented with an unusual association, not previously reported in the literature: Richter syndrome (monotypic Epstein-Barr virus- negative large B-cell lymphoma) with the proliferation of Epstein-Barr virus-positive B cells secreting a polytypic immunoglobulin A. The Epstein-Barr virus-positive lymphoproliferation can be accounted for by the type of immunosuppression induced by the treatment.
Successful engraftment of mismatched unrelated cord blood transplantation following reduced intensity preparative regimen using fludarabine and busulfan.	We conducted a pilot study to evaluate the feasibility of reduced-intensity cord blood transplantation (RI-CBT) using a non-total body irradiation (TBI) regimen in adult patients with advanced hematologic malignancies. Seventeen patients with a median age of 58 years (range, 38-74) underwent RI-CBT at Tsukuba Memorial Hospital between April 2004 and November 2005. Preparative regimens were fludarabine 30 mg/m(2) for 6 days, and busulfan 4 mg/kg for 2 days. Tacrolimus was used for prophylaxis of graft-vs-host disease (GVHD). Median numbers of infused total nucleated were 2.6 x 10(7)/kg (range, 2.0-3.3). HLA disparity was found in 2/6 antigens (n=16) and 1/6 antigens (n=1). Underlying diseases progressed despite preparative regimens in four patients. Of the remaining 13 patients, nine patients achieved engraftment at a median of day 18 (range, 17-28). Six of the nine patients with engraftment achieved complete donor-type chimerism by day 100. Six patients were alive in remission at median follow-up of 13.1 months (range, 1.0-19.0). This study demonstrated the feasibility of RI-CBT using a non-TBI regimen in adults. When disease progression is controlled by the preparative regimen, RI-CBT carries a clinically significant graft-vs-tumor effect. Further studies are required to identify patients who benefit from this regimen.
Lichenoid paraneoplastic pemphigus in the absence of detectable antibodies.	Paraneoplastic pemphigus (PNP) has been described as an antibody-mediated mucocutaneous disease occurring almost exclusively in patients with lymphocytic neoplasms. We describe 4 patients with the clinical features of the lichenoid variant of PNP in the absence of detectable autoantibodies. On the basis of these findings, we conclude that the spectrum of PNP likely includes patients with disease predominantly or exclusively mediated by cytotoxic T cells rather than autoantibodies. The pathophysiology and range of PNP disease are likely more complex than was initially believed.
Highly variable mycophenolate mofetil bioavailability following nonmyeloablative hematopoietic cell transplantation.	This study determined the oral bioavailability of mycophenolic acid, the active metabolite of mycophenolate mofetil, in patients undergoing nonmyeloablative hematopoietic cell transplantation. Eighteen adults receiving a preparative regimen containing fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and total body irradiation were studied. Immune suppression consisted of cyclosporine and mycophenolate 1 g twice daily. Pharmacokinetic variability was high after intravenous and oral dosing. Intravenous dosing resulted in a median area under the curve (AUC) of 28.3 microg x h/mL (range, 9.96-70.4) and an oral AUC of 16.7 microg x h/mL (range, 9.38-35.3). Cmax after intravenous and oral dosing was 12.18 and 5.29 microg/mL, respectively. The median oral bioavailability was 72.3% (20.5%-172%), with 8-fold variability. Five patients (28%) had an oral bioavailability < or = 50%. At time of oral pharmacokinetics, 15 patients (83%) had an AUC(0-12) < 30 microg x h/mL. The initial oral dose should be at least 25% greater than the intravenous dose with follow-up assessment of plasma concentrations.
Anti-tumor efficacy of Cloretazine (VNP40101M) alone and in combination with fludarabine in murine tumor and human xenograft tumor models.	Cloretazine (VNP40101M), a new sulfonylhydrazine alkylating agent, has demonstrated broad-spectrum anti-tumor activity in preclinical studies. In this study, Cloretazine was evaluated both as a monotherapy and in combination with fludarabine in murine tumor and human tumor xenograft models. Cloretazine significantly inhibited the growth of subcutaneously implanted tumors, including B16F10 murine melanoma in C57BL/6 mice, and H460 human lung carcinoma and WiDr human colon carcinoma in athymic nude CD1 mice. The inhibition of tumor growth by Cloretazine was dose dependent, increasing from 42.2 to 87% as the dose escalated from 100 to 150 mg/kg. Cloretazine showed equivalent efficacy but lower toxicity compared to cyclophosphamide in these models. The combination therapy, consisting of a single dose of 10 mg/kg Cloretazine plus five doses of 70 mg/kg fludarabine, given every other day intraperitoneally, significantly increased the long-term survival of BDF1 mice bearing the L1210 murine leukemia. On Day 65 post-tumor implantation, the combination therapy yielded a 90% survival rate compared to 40% for Cloretazine alone and 0% for fludarabine alone.
Randomized phase III trial of fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide with or without oblimersen sodium (Bcl-2 antisense) in patients with relapsed or refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Expression of Bcl-2 protein is associated with chemotherapy resistance and decreased survival in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We evaluated whether oblimersen would improve response to chemotherapy in patients with relapsed or refractory CLL.
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for the treatment of high-risk acute myelogenous leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome using reduced-intensity conditioning with fludarabine and melphalan.	Reduced-intensity conditioning has extended the use of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) to patients otherwise not eligible for this treatment due to older age or frailty. One hundred twelve acute myelogenous leukemia/myelodysplastic syndromes patients received fludarabine and melphalan (FM) conditioning with allogeneic HSCT. Most patients (73%) were not in remission. Graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis consisted of tacrolimus and mini-methotrexate. Median age was 55 years (range, 22-74). Donors were related (53%) and unrelated (47%). Median follow-up of surviving patients (n = 43) was 29.4 months (range, 13.1-87.7). The complete remission (CR) rate was 82%. Estimates of 2-year survival were 66%, 40%, and 23% for patients in CR, with active disease without and with circulating blasts at HSCT, respectively. In multivariate analysis, survival was negatively influenced by active disease at HSCT and development of grade II-IV acute GVHD. Presence of circulating blasts at HSCT negatively influenced freedom from disease progression. Incidence of nonrelapse mortality (NRM) was significantly higher for patients with active disease, but was not influenced by patient age. Patients in CR had a day-100 and 2-year NRM of 0% and 20%, respectively. Use of unrelated donors increased the risk of NRM only among patients with active disease. FM and HSCT elicited long-term disease control in a significant fraction of this high-risk cohort.
Health-related quality of life in younger patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia treated with fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide or fludarabine alone for first-line therapy: a study by the German CLL Study Group.	To date, only a few studies have evaluated the health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) receiving chemotherapy. Therefore, the German CLL Study Group assessed HRQOL in younger patients with advanced CLL receiving first-line chemotherapy with fludarabine or fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC).
Allogeneic stem cell transplantation for patients with advanced hematological malignancies: comparison of fludarabine-based reduced intensity conditioning versus myeloablative conditioning.	We compared the outcomes of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation using reduced intensity and myeloablative conditioning for the treatment of patients with advanced hematological malignancies. A total of 75 adult patients received transplants from human leukocyte antigen-matched donors, coupled with either reduced intensity (n=40; fludarabine/melphalan, 28; fludarabine/cyclophosphamide, 12) or myeloablative conditioning (n=35, busufan/cyclophosphamide). The patients receiving reduced intensity conditioning were elderly, or exhibited contraindications for myeloablative conditioning. Neutrophil and platelet engraftment occurred more rapidly in the reduced intensity group (median, 9 days vs. 18 days in the myeloablative group, p<0.0001; median 12 days vs. 22 days in the myeloablative group, p=0.0001, respectively). Acute graft-versus-host disease (>or=grade II) occurred at comparable frequencies in both groups, while the incidence of hepatic veno-occlusive disease was lower in the reduced intensity group (3% vs. 20% in the myeloablative group, p=0.02). The overall 1-yr survival rates of the reduced intensity and myeloablative group patients were 44% and 15%, respectively (p=0.16). The results of present study indicate that patients with advanced hematological malignancies, even the elderly and those with major organ dysfunctions, might benefit from reduced intensity transplantation.
Mucosa associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma of the lung: the Royal Marsden Hospital experience.	Mucosa associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) lymphoma of the lung is a rare disease with an indolent clinical behaviour. This single centre retrospective analysis evaluates the treatment strategies and clinical outcome for these patients. A total number of ten patients (7 male/3 female) were identified between January 1997 and October 2005 and their records analysed. At diagnosis the patients presented with unspecific symptoms (cough, shortness of breath and lower respiratory chest infection) which were further evaluated. Six patients had stage IAE disease, two patients stage IIAE and in two patients disease was stage IV. The initial treatment consisted of surgery alone (3 patients), chemotherapy +/- rituximab (5/1 patients), single agent rituximab (1 patient) and wait & watch strategy (1 patient). After a median follow-up time of 3.4 years the overall survival was 90% at 3 years. In conclusion, our data suggest that most of the patients with MALT of the lung had localized disease which generally responded well to systemic or local therapy and resulted in favourable long-term outcome underlining the indolent course of this disease.
Reduced intensity conditioning with thiotepa, fludarabine, and melphalan is effective in advanced multiple myeloma.	Fifty-three patients with multiple myeloma (MM) underwent an allogeneic stem cell transplant (HSCT) from their HLA identical siblings using a reduced-intensity conditioning consisting of thioteopa 5 mg/kg, fludarabine 90 mg/m(2), and melphalan 80 mg/m(2). Their median age was 52 years (range 38 - 68) and the interval from diagnosis 12 months. Forty-three patients (82%) had advanced disease and 33 had previously been treated with high-dose therapy with one (N = 21), or more (N = 12) autologus transplants. Ten (18%) had their allograft programmed after induction chemotherapy. The majority (N = 44) received peripheral blood as stem cell source. Acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) grade II - IV developed in 45%, but grade III - IV in only 5%. Cumulative incidence of chronic GVHD was 64%. Sixty-two per cent were in complete remission (CR) following transplantation. Transplant-related mortality was 13%. Relapse incidence was 32%. With a median follow-up of 22 months, 3-year overall survival is 45% and progression free survival (PFS) 37%. The thiotepa, fludarabine, and melphalan conditioning regimen can produce remissions in the majority of MM patients with a limited transplant mortality rate. When used as first line treatment the results of transplantation appear even more encouraging.
Current status of reduced-intensity-conditioning allogeneic stem cell transplantation for acute myeloid leukemia.	Allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) is the most efficient antileukemic treatment for acute myeloblastic leukemia (AML). However, elderly patients can rarely benefit from standard myeloablative allo-SCT because of an unacceptable rate of procedure-related toxicities. This point is critical when considering AML patients in first complete remission. The development of the so-called reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) regimens appears to decrease allo-SCT-related toxicities, and has emerged as an attractive modality in AML patients not eligible for standard allo-SCT. Such RIC regimens aim primarily to provide the immune graft-versus-leukemia effect while causing little toxicity. Of note, treatment-related toxicity appears to be lower with RIC regimens as compared to standard myeloablative regimens. Nevertheless, toxicity might represent only one aspect of the problem, since AML encompasses a group of chemosensitive diseases, raising concerns that significant reduction of the intensity of the preparative regimen may have a negative impact on long-term leukemic control. Furthermore, no prospective studies have been reported thus far establishing RIC allo-SCT as the preferred option in AML. Investigators are currently faced with a dilemma on how to optimize the potential role of RIC allo-SCT in AML patients, while delivering minimal myeloablation and maximizing allogeneic immunotherapy. The aim of this review is to analyze the available research evidence in this field.
Unrelated stem cell transplantation for severe acquired aplastic anemia: improved outcome in the era of high-resolution HLA matching between donor and recipient.	Severe acquired aplastic anemia (SAA) is a potentially fatal bone marrow failure syndrome occurring mainly in children and young adults. Immunosuppressive regimens and hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) are the only two available curative treatments. Patients who lack an HLA-identical sibling donor may receive HSCT from an unrelated donor, a strategy historically associated with high mortality rates. Thus, for patients refractory to immunosuppressive regimens, the decision to transplant stem cells from unrelated donors is weighed against supportive care and often represents a dilemma for physicians. We aimed to determine whether outcome after unrelated HSCT has improved in recent years and, if so, to determine the factors responsible for the improvement.
Long-term outcomes after reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic stem cell transplantation for low-grade lymphoma: a survey by the French Society of Bone Marrow Graft Transplantation and Cellular Therapy (SFGM-TC).	High-dose chemotherapy with allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT) has proven to be a successful treatment for low-grade lymphoma (LGL), but is associated with considerable transplant-related mortality (TRM). In an effort to reduce toxic mortality while maintaining the graft-versus-leukemia effect, allogeneic SCT has been combined with a reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen. The aim of this study was to determine the outcome of patients with LGL treated with RIC allogeneic SCT.
Reduced intensity conditioning for allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplant determines the kinetics of acute graft-versus-host disease.	Preparative myeloablative conditioning regimens for allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT) may control malignancy and facilitate engraftment but also contribute to transplant related mortality, cytokine release, and acute graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) regimens have decreased transplant related mortality but the incidence of acute GVHD, while delayed, remains unchanged. There are currently no in vivo allogeneic models of RIC HSCT, limiting studies into the mechanism behind RIC-associated GVHD.
Fludarabine, Cyclophosphamide and Rituximab: an effective chemoimmunotherapy combination with high remission rates for chronic lymphocytic leukaemia.	Combined Fludarabine and Cyclophosphamide is now standard first-line therapy in chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) and the addition of Rituximab improves outcome.
Fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, mitoxantrone plus rituximab (FCM-R) in frontline CLL <70 Years.	Randomized trials demonstrated the superiority of chemoimmunotherapy over chemotherapy in the frontline treatment of CLL. Based on favorable experience with the addition of mitoxantrone (M) to fludarabine (F) plus cyclophosphamide (C), we designed a pilot study testing the combination of FCM plus rituximab (R). Thirty patients with previously untreated, symptomatic CLL, <70 years, and beta-2-microglobulin <twice upper limit of normal were evaluated. Treatment consisted of F 25mg/m(2)/day on days 2-4, C 250 mg/m(2)/day on days 2-4, M 6 mg/m(2) on day 2, and R 375 mg/m(2) on day 1. For cycles 2-6, FCM started day 1 together with R 500 mg/m(2). Pegfilgrastim was administered with each cycle. Cycles were repeated every 4-6 weeks. Complete remission (CR) was achieved in 83% of 30 patients, nodular partial response in 10%, and partial response in 3%. The overall response rate was 96%. Sixteen of 24 CR patients (67%) achieved a flow cytometry response with <1% marrow CD5/CD19-positive cells and 13 of 21 CR patients (62%) were MRD-negative by molecular evaluation for clonal IgV(H). With a median follow up of 38.5 months, the median time to treatment failure (TTF) has not been reached. A comparison with a historical group of FCR-treated patients showed no significant differences with respect to response and toxicities. FCM-R is highly active in patients < 70 years with favorable beta-2-microglobulin levels and previously untreated CLL. Outcome does not differ from FCR-treated patients.
The combination of thalidomide, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone is potentially useful in highly resistant Hodgkin's lymphoma.	Few diseases have a prognosis worse than Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), patients relapsing after autologous or allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Here, we report two highly refractory patients with HL who successfully responded to a combination of thalidomide, cyclophosphamide and dexamethasone (ThaCyDex). Despite the use of a very large number of different drugs (>5 different schemes) including high-dose therapy and autologous and allogeneic stem cell transplantation, both patients proved to be suffering from a highly resistant disease. Fortunately, they finally responded to the ThaCyDex combination, achieving sustained complete remission that would support the running of a trial within this setting.
NKAML: a pilot study to determine the safety and feasibility of haploidentical natural killer cell transplantation in childhood acute myeloid leukemia.	PURPOSE To conduct a pilot study to determine the safety, feasibility, and engraftment of haploidentical natural killer (NK) cell infusions after an immunosuppressive regimen in children with acute myeloid leukemia (AML). PATIENTS AND METHODS Ten patients (0.7 to 21 years old) who had completed chemotherapy and were in first complete remission of AML were enrolled on the Pilot Study of Haploidentical Natural Killer Cell Transplantation for Acute Myeloid Leukemia (NKAML) study. They received cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg on day -7) and fludarabine (25 mg/m(2)/d on days -6 through -2), followed by killer immunoglobulin-like receptor-human leukocyte antigen (KIR-HLA) mismatched NK cells (median, 29 x 10(6)/kg NK cells) and six doses of interleukin-2 (1 million U/m(2)). NK cell chimerism, phenotyping, and functional assays were performed on days 2, 7, 14, 21, and 28 after transplantation. Results All patients had transient engraftment for a median of 10 days (range, 2 to 189 days) and a significant expansion of KIR-mismatched NK cells (median, 5,800/mL of blood on day 14). Nonhematologic toxicity was limited, with no graft-versus-host disease. Median length of hospitalization was 2 days. With a median follow-up time of 964 days (range, 569 to 1,162 days), all patients remain in remission. The 2-year event-free survival estimate was 100% (95% CI, 63.1% to 100%). CONCLUSION Low-dose immunosuppression followed by donor-recipient inhibitory KIR-HLA mismatched NK cells is well tolerated by patients and results in successful engraftment. We propose to further investigate the efficacy of KIR-mismatched NK cells in a phase II trial as consolidation therapy to decrease relapse without increasing mortality in children with AML.
A phase II study of alemtuzumab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin (Campath-FCD) in peripheral T-cell lymphomas.	The clinical course of peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) is usually aggressive and the prognosis unfavorable. Therefore, there is a need for improvement of treatment options. Patients with newly diagnosed (n = 27) or refractory/relapsed (n = 11) PTCL received a combination of alemtuzumab, fludarabine, cyclophosphamide, and doxorubicin. The overall response rate (ORR) was 61%, with a complete response rate of 39%. In newly diagnosed patients the ORR was 63%, the median overall survival 25.9 months, and progression-free survival 11.8 months. In relapsed/refractory patients the median OS was 6.1 months. The most frequent grade 3/4 toxicities were leukopenia (95% of patients) and thrombocytopenia (58%). Cytomegalovirus (CMV) reactivation occurred in 12 patients, but only two had CMV disease. Treatment-related deaths occurred in six newly diagnosed patients and one with relapsed/refractory disease. In conclusion, Campath-FCD is active in PTCL but is associated with significant toxicity and is, therefore, not recommended for use or further study. Further studies are warranted to investigate other approaches to combining alemtuzumab with chemotherapy for the treatment of PTCL.
Advances in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	A dramatic change has taken place in therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia over the past 15 years. In 1990, available therapy produced complete responses in less than 5% of treated patients. This is in marked contrast to modern regimens, which can reliably produce complete responses in over 50% of patients. This remarkable improvement is completely attributable to the introduction of new active agents. These new agents include three purine analogues (pentostatin, fludarabine, and cladribine) and two monoclonal antibodies (rituximab and alemtuzumab). Novel combinations of these agents have emerged as effective new therapies for previously untreated and pretreated patients. Clinical studies indicate that such combinations can induce higher response rates-including complete responses-than single-agent therapy. Those patients who achieve a complete response have superior survival, compared with those who achieve only a partial response. Though not yet demonstrated in a prospective randomized trial, treatment approaches aimed at achieving high-quality responses may one day lead to an improvement in survival for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia and, ultimately, offer the hope of curative therapy in these patients.
Thymic recovery after allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation with non-myeloablative conditioning is limited to patients younger than 60 years of age.	Long-term immune recovery in older patients given hematopoietic cell transplantation after non-myeloablative conditioning remains poorly understood. This prompted us to investigate long-term lymphocyte reconstitution and thymic function in 80 patients given allogeneic peripheral blood stem cells after non-myeloablative conditioning.
U.S. Food and drug administration approval: rituximab in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	To describe the clinical studies that led to the FDA approval of rituximab in combination with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FC) for the treatment of patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
A prospective dose-finding trial using a modified continual reassessment method for optimization of fludarabine plus melphalan conditioning for marrow transplantation from unrelated donors in patients with hematopoietic malignancies.	Because of the less graft-facilitating effect by bone marrow (BM), we need to assess a dosage of conditioning more accurately particularly in combination with reduced-intensity conditioning. Thus we examined that modified continual reassessment method (mCRM) is applicable for deciding appropriate conditioning of allogeneic BM transplantation.
Assessment of ovarian function after preparative chemotherapy and total body radiation for adoptive cell therapy.	The aim of the study is to analyze treatment-induced gonadal damage and premature ovarian failure after adoptive cell therapy (ACT) after a cytotoxic lymphodepleting preparative regimen. Records of 66 consecutive females who received ACT at the Surgery Branch, National Cancer Institute, NIH (Bethesda, MD) were reviewed. Patients received a conditioning regimen of high-dose cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg x 2 doses) and fludarabine (25 mg/m x 5 doses). Some patients also received total body radiation at 200 or 600 cGy. Assessment of ovarian function was determined by analysis of monthly follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) levels, menstrual history, and symptoms. Among patients with serum available and normal pretreatment ovarian function, 21 had a preparative regimen with chemotherapy alone and 5 patients had received chemotherapy with total body radiation. Nine (43%) patients in the chemotherapy cohort and all 5 patients in the chemotherapy plus total body radiation cohort had persistently elevated FSH levels and were given the diagnosis of premature ovarian failure. Twelve (57%) patients had normal FSH levels at 6 months posttreatment. Median age of all patients at treatment was 34 years. Median age of women retaining normal ovarian function was 30 (range, 19-45) vs. 41 years (range, 30-49) for those who did not regain function. The conditioning regimen of 2 doses of cyclophosphamide (60 mg/kg) and 5 doses of fludarabine (25 mg/m) may induce gonadal damage and premature ovarian failure. Younger age at treatment was associated with a higher frequency of normal ovarian function posttreatment, whereas adding total body radiation was associated with a high risk of ovarian failure.
Y-Ibritumomab tiuxetan, fludarabine, and TBI-based nonmyeloablative allogeneic transplantation conditioning for patients with persistent high-risk B-cell lymphoma.	Nonmyeloablative allogeneic transplantation (NMAT) infrequently cures active chemoresistant, bulky, or aggressive B-cell lymphoma (B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma [B-NHL]). We hypothesized that Y-ibritumomab tiuxetan-based NMAT would facilitate early cytoreduction in such patients promoting improved long-term disease control by the allogeneic graft. Forty high-risk B-NHL patients with persistent disease received 0.4 mCi/kg (maximum, 32 mCi/kg) Y-ibritumomab tiuxetan, fludarabine, and 2 Gy total body irradiation and matched-related (15) or unrelated (25) transplantation. Baseline features included: median age, 58 years (range, 29-69 years); median prior regimens, 6 (range, 3-12); chemosensitive disease, 6 (15%); bulk > 5 cm, 17 (range, 5.2-18.6 cm, 43%); diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, 14 (35%); and comorbidity score > zero, 34 (85%). Early responses were observed in 24 (60%, 14 complete remission/complete remission unconfirmed, 10 partial response) patients, including 17 of 29 (59%) with chemotherapy-resistant disease and 10 (59%) with bulk > 5 cm. The estimated 30-month survival, progression-free survival, and nonrelapse mortality were 54.1%, 31.1%, and 15.9%, respectively. Early response, baseline platelet counts over 25 000/L, indolent histology, and related donors were associated with improved survival. The addition of Y-ibritumomab tiuxetan to NMAT is safe and yields early responses and prolonged disease control in some of the highest-risk B-NHL patients. This trial was registered at www.clinicaltrials.gov as #NCT00119392.
Proliferative glomerulonephritis with monoclonal IgG deposits secondary to chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Report of two cases.	Proliferative glomerulonephritis with monoclonal IgG deposits (PGNMID) is a recently described entity that is only rarely associated with a hematological or lymphoproliferative malignancy. We describe the cases of two men with preexisting chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) who developed endocapillary proliferative glomerulonephritis with nonorganized monoclonal IgG(1) deposits. One biopsy also showed CLL infiltration of the cortex. Both patients were treated with rituximab in addition to cyclophosphamide in one case and fludarabine in the other with significant improvement of their renal disease and CLL. This report provides additional evidence to support the use of rituximab in the therapy of CLL-associated PGNMID.
Economic evaluation of rituximab added to fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide versus fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia]	We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of rituximab added to the chemotherapy regimen of fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (R-FC) versus fludarabine plus cyclophosphamide (FC) for the treatment of patients with previously untreated or relapsed/refractory chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).
Rituximab in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Rituximab (Rituxan; iogen Idec, San Diego, CA, USA) is a human-mouse chimeric monoclonal antibody specific for CD20, a surface glycoprotein expressed on B lymphocytes. Administration of rituximab as a single agent to patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) has limited clinical activity, but generally does not eradicate leukemia from the marrow. However, when administered in combination with chemotherapy, rituximab can improve the survival of patients relative to those treated with chemotherapy alone. As a result of this, the US Food and Drug Administration approved the use of rituximab in previously untreated and previously treated CD20-positive CLL in combination with fludarabine monophosphate and cyclophosphamide. The results of clinical studies evaluating the activity of rituximab when used alone or in combination with other antileukemia agents for the treatment of this disease are reviewed here.
Simultaneous clinical resolution of focal segmental glomerulosclerosis associated with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia treated with fludarabine, cyclophosphamide and rituximab.	Although renal involvement in advanced haematological malignancies is common, glomerulonephritis associated with lymphoproliferative disorders is rare, and the related pathogenetic mechanisms are still poorly understood. We present a rare case of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia(CLL)-associated focal segmental glomerulosclerosis with nephrotic-range proteinuria.
Tandem autologous/reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic stem-cell transplantation versus autologous transplantation in myeloma: long-term follow-up.	Results of allogeneic stem-cell transplantation (allo) in myeloma are controversial. In this trial autologous stem-cell transplantation (auto) followed by reduced-intensity conditioning matched sibling donor allo (auto-allo) was compared with auto only in previously untreated multiple myeloma.
Quality of life in chronic lymphocytic leukemia: 5-year results from the multicenter randomized LRF CLL4 trial.	Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) is a key issue for patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. The multicenter LRF CLL4 trial, in which 777 patients were randomized to receive chlorambucil or fludarabine, alone or with cyclophosphamide (FC), assessed HRQoL at baseline, months 3, 6 and 12, then annually until 5 years, using the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality of life questionnaire (EORTC-QLQ-C30). While on treatment, some HRQoL impairment was seen in patients receiving fludarabine, particularly FC, compared with chlorambucil. Thus at 3 months, role/social functioning and fatigue were  10 points worse than baseline in 41%/46%/56%, respectively, of patients receiving fludarabine alone and 48%/54%/60% receiving FC, compared with only 29%/31%/40% of those receiving chlorambucil. Thereafter HRQoL appeared similar between treatment groups. Sustained remissions were associated with long-term HRQoL benefit. In the primary HRQoL domains patients still in complete or partial remission at each time-point had scores close to those reported in general population studies, while patients whose disease had progressed had mean scores up to 22 points worse, in spite of subsequent treatments. These data offer support for the use of primary treatment regimens likely to achieve and sustain remission in otherwise medically fit patients of all ages, including those aged > 70 years.
Excess mortality after treatment with fludarabine and cyclophosphamide in combination with alemtuzumab in previously untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia in a randomized phase 3 trial.	A French and Belgian multicenter phase 3 trial was conducted in medically fit patients with untreated chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Of 178 patients enrolled in the study, 165 were randomly assigned to receive 6 courses of oral fludarabine and cyclophosphamide (FC) in combination with rituximab (FCR; 375 mg/m(2) in cycle one, 500 mg/m(2) in all subsequent cycles) or alemtuzumab (FCCam; 30 mg subcutaneously injected on cycle days 1-3); each cycle was 28 days. Recruitment was halted prematurely because of excess toxicity; 8 patients died in the FCCam group, 3 from lymphoma and 5 from in-fection. Overall response rates were 91% with FCR and 90% with FCCam (P = .79). Complete remission rates were 33.75% with FCR and 19.2% with FCCam (P = .04). Three-year progression-free survival was 82.6% with FCR and 72.5% with FCCam (P = .21). Three-year overall survival was similar between the 2 arms at 90.1% in the FCR arm and 86.4% in the FCCam arm (P = .27). These results indicate that the FCCam regimen for the treatment of advanced chronic lymphocytic leukemia was not more effective than the FCR regimen and was associated with an unfavorable safety profile, representing a significant limitation of its use. This study is registered with www.clinicaltrials.gov as number NCT00564512.
Reduced-intensity conditioning in unrelated donor cord blood transplantation for familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.	Familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (FHL) is a disorder of immune homeostasis characterized by fever, cytopenias, hepatosplenomegaly, and coagulopathy. We studied the outcomes of 13 FHL patients who underwent the first unrelated cord blood transplantation (UCBT) after non-myeloablative conditionings. The major regimen consisted of fludarabine (FLU; n = 12)+melphalan (MEL; n = 11) low-dose total body irradiation (TBI 2-4 Gy; n = 6). The median age at presentation and period to UCBT were 6 and 5 months, respectively. Central nervous system (CNS) disease developed in one infant at diagnosis, and in two others until UCBT. HLH activity was controlled in all but one at the time of UCBT. Ten patients had early engraftment on median day 21 with no grade >2 treatment-related toxicity and two controllable grade >2 acute GVHD. Two patients with early rejection successfully underwent subsequent UCBT after myeloablative conditioning. Two others had late graft failure following mixed donor chimerism. Two deaths occurred from HLH; early liver failure and late CNS disease. Of 11 FLU+MEL-conditioned patients, the frequency of disease-free complete engraftment was higher for MEL (120 mg/m(2) )+TBI, or high-dose MEL (180 mg/m(2) ) than for others (83% vs. 25%, p = 0.036). The FLU+MEL-based non-myeloablative regimen was acceptable for FHL infants undergoing UCBT, although further studies will be needed for confirmation.
Ultra-short course sirolimus contributes to effective GVHD prophylaxis after reduced-intensity allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplantation.	Reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) allo-SCT is a potentially curative treatment approach for patients with relapsed Hodgkin's or non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. In the present study, 37 patients underwent RIC allo-SCT after induction treatment with EPOCH-F(R) using a novel form of dual-agent immunosuppression for GVHD prophylaxis with CsA and sirolimus. With a median follow-up of 28 months among survivors, the probability for OS at 3 and 5 years was 56%. Treatment-related mortality was 16% at day +100 and 30% after 1 year of transplant. Acute GVHD grades II-IV developed in 38% of patients, suggesting that the regimen consisting of CsA and an ultra-short course of sirolimus is effective in the prevention of acute GVHD.
Rapid clearance of rituximab may contribute to the continued high incidence of autoimmune hematologic complications of chemoimmunotherapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Rituximab is an effective treatment for autoimmune cytopenias associated with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Despite the incorporation of rituximab into fludarabine-based chemotherapy regimens, the incidence of autoimmune cytopenias has remained high. Inadequate rituximab exposure due to rapid antibody clearance may be a contributing factor. To test this hypothesis, we measured serum rituximab levels in patients treated with fludarabine and rituximab (375 mg/m(2)). All patients had undetectable rituximab trough levels by the end of cycle 1, and one-third had undetectable levels already on Day 6 of cycle 1. Although rituximab trough levels increased progressively with each cycle, only by cycle 4 did the median trough level exceed 10 ug/mL. The median half-life of rituximab during cycle 1 was 27 hours, compared to 199 hours during cycle 4 (P<0.0001). There was a significant inverse correlation between the rituximab half-life in cycle 1 and the degree of tumor burden (P=0.02). Two patients who were identified as having subclinical autoimmune hemolysis prior to therapy were given additional doses of rituximab during the initial cycles of therapy and did not develop clinically significant hemolysis. One patient who developed clinically significant hemolysis during therapy was given additional rituximab doses during cycles 3-5 and was able to successfully complete his treatment. In conclusion, rituximab is cleared so rapidly during the initial cycles of therapy for chronic lymphocytic leukemia that most patients have only transient serum levels. More frequent dosing of rituximab may be required to prevent autoimmune complications in at-risk patients (clinicaltrials.gov identifier:00001586). 
National Institutes of Health classification for chronic graft-versus-host disease predicts outcome of allo-hematopoietic stem cell transplant after fludarabine-busulfan-antithymocyte globulin conditioning regimen.	Abstract In 2005, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) proposed standard criteria for diagnosis, organ scoring and global assessment of chronic graft-versus-host disease (cGvHD) severity. We retrospectively reclassified cGvHD with NIH criteria in a monocentric cohort of 130 consecutive adult patients with hematological malignancies presenting cGvHD after receiving allo-hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) with a fludarabine-busulfan-antithymocyte globulin (ATG) conditioning regimen, among 313 consecutive HSCT recipients. We compared NIH and Seattle classifications to correlate severity and outcome. The follow up range was effectively 2-120 months. Forty-four percent developed Seattle-defined cGvHD (22% limited, 78% extensive forms). Using NIH criteria, there were 23%, 40% and 37% mild, moderate and severe forms, respectively, and 58%, 32% and 8% classic cGvHD, late acute GvHD and overlap syndrome. Five-year overall survival was 55% (49-61), and cumulative incidences of non-relapse mortality (NRM) and relapse/progression at 2 years were 19% (14-23) and 19% (14-24). NIH mild and moderate forms were associated with better survival compared to severe cGvHD (hazard ratio [HR] = 3.28, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.38-7.82, p = 0.007), due to higher NRM among patients with severe cGvHD (HR = 3.04, 95% CI: 1.05-8.78, p = 0.04) but comparable relapse risk (p = NS). In conclusion, the NIH classification appears to be more accurate in predicting outcome mostly by the reclassification of old-defined extensive forms into NIH-defined moderate or severe. 
Feasibility of reduced-intensity conditioning followed by unrelated cord blood transplantation for primary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis: a nationwide retrospective analysis in Japan.	A nationwide retrospective analysis was performed on patients who received allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for primary or familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) in Japan. The present analysis investigated whether reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) followed by cord blood transplantation (CBT) (RIC-CBT) is feasible, compared to the outcomes of myeloablative conditioning and bone marrow transplantation. Based on the JSHCT data, 53 patients were analyzed. The overall survival rate (OS) was 65.46.6%. RIC-CBT (n=13) was not inferior to other methods. Patients with a performance status of PS 4 (ECOG scale) with HLH-associated severe organ dysfunction during the initiation of conditioning had extremely poor outcomes. The OS rate in the RIC-CBT patients, excluding those with a performance status 4, was 80.012.6%. RIC may reduce treatment-related mortality; in addition, patients with engraftment failure, which is the main adverse event following RIC-CBT, were successfully rescued with secondary CBT. Unrelated cord blood may represent an alternative source if a patient has no related donor. As a RIC regimen for CBT, 140mg/m(2) melphalan with fludarabine and anti-lymphocyte globulin or anti-thymocyte globulin may be feasible, but further dosage optimization should be performed in controlled clinical trials. 
Reduced-intensity conditioning therapy with fludarabine, idarubicin, busulfan and cytarabine for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome.	We retrospectively analyzed allogenic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) outcomes in 82 patients with AML or MDS were conditioned with fludarabine, idarubicin, intravenous-busulfan and cytarabine (FIBA) or busulfan and cyclophosphamide (BuCy). Compared to BuCy regimen, reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) with FIBA was associated with a lower incidence of severe acute GVHD, lower NRM and a similar relapse rate. There was no significant difference in the 3 year overall survival (OS), but this is possibly due to the limited number of patients. The FIBA regimen is promising to replace BuCy regimen because of better security and similar relapse rate. 
Fludarabine-based reduced-intensity conditioning regimen for hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in primary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis.	Primary hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) is a life-threatening condition that clinically characterized by fever, hepatosplenomegaly, and cytopenia. Hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is the only curative treatment option for patients diagnosed with primary HLH.
Thrombotic microangiopathy in metastatic melanoma patients treated with adoptive cell therapy and total body irradiation.	Thrombotic microangiopathy (TMA) is a complication that developed in some patients receiving 12 Gy total body irradiation (TBI) in addition to lymphodepleting preparative chemotherapy prior to infusion of autologous tumor-infiltrating lymphocytes (TIL) with high-dose aldesleukin (IL-2). This article describes the incidence, presentation, and course of radiation-associated TMA.
A novel Cdk9 inhibitor preferentially targets tumor cells and synergizes with fludarabine.	Cdk9 is a key elongation factor for RNA transcription and functions by phosphorylating the C-terminal domain of RNA polymerase II. Here we present direct evidence that cdk9 is important for cancer cell survival and describe the characterization of the potent cdk9 inhibitor CDKI-73 in primary human leukemia cells. CDKI-73 induced caspase-dependent apoptosis that was preceded by dephosphorylation of cdk9 and serine 2 of RNA polymerase II. CDKI-73 was more potent than the pan-cdk inhibitor flavopiridol and showed >200-fold selectivity against primary leukemia cells when compared with normal CD34+ cells. Furthermore, CDKI-73 was equipotent in poor prognostic sub-groups of leukemia patients and showed cytotoxic synergy with the nucleoside analog fludarabine. The Mechanism of synergy was associated with CDKI-73-mediated transcriptional inhibition of MCL1 and XIAP that was maintained when used in combination with fludarabine. Our data present a strong rationale for the development of cdk9 inhibitors such as CDKI-73 as anticancer therapeutics. 
Enhanced efficacy of nucleoside analogs and recombinant alpha interferon in weanling mice lethally infected with herpes simplex virus type 2.	Weanling ICR Swiss mice were inoculated intranasally with a lethal dose of herpes simplex virus type 2, and treated with either vidarabine, vidarabine-5'-monophosphate, acyclovir or a hybrid recombinant human alpha interferon which is active in murine tissues. Treatment with antiviral drugs was initiated 2, 24, 48, 72 or 96 h following virus inoculation. Single drug treatment showed little effect on mortality, with only acyclovir showing some slight reduction. Four dual drug combinations (vidarabine/acyclovir; vidarabine/interferon; vidarabine 5'-monophosphate/acyclovir and vidarabine 5'-monophosphate/interferon) were all associated with marked reductions of mortality when treatment was begun at 2 h, and this beneficial effect increased further when therapy was delayed until 24 or 48 h following virus inoculation. However, the combination of acyclovir/interferon was consistently toxic to the mice, unless a reduction in dosages was employed. These results suggest that certain antiviral combinations might be useful for serious human infections caused by herpes simplex virus.
Feasibility of the fludarabine busulfan 3 days and ATG 2 days reduced toxicity conditioning in 51 allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: a single-center experience.	In reduced-toxicity conditioning hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, several studies failed to demonstrate the superiority of one conditioning over another. This study described 51 patients (median age of 58 years) allografted with the new FB3-ATG2 conditioning regimen for myeloid (66%) or lymphoid disease (33%). Comorbidity index 3 was noted in 23.5% of patients. Toxicities were close to those observed with RIC. One-year cumulative incidence of acute and chronic GVHD was 18.9% and 39.2%. The 2-year-NRM, DFS and OS were 25%, 57.5% and 66%. The FB3-ATG2 regimen is safe and efficient in both lymphoid and myeloid disorders. However, prospective comparative studies are needed. 
Treatment of acute myeloid leukemia -- a single center experience (2007-2013)]	Mortality of acute myeloid leukemia is still 60-70% in young (<60 years) adults and 90% in elderly (60 years) patients.
Treatment of herpes simplex keratitis with Vidarabin ointment (author's transl)]	In 20 cases of herpes simplex keratitis the efficacy of Vidarabin ointment has been tested, in 19 cases after corneal abrasion. The eyes were treated once a day and padded until the epithelial defects had closed. Thereafter the ointment was applied 4 times per day for about one week more. On the average epithelial closure had been achieved after 2.4 days, complete normalization of the epithelium after a total of 3.6 days. This therapy results in a considerable shortening of the healing process as compared to the topical use of anti-viral medication alone. From this aspect Vidarabin ointment has proved to be a valuable adjuvant.
Drug combinations for treatment of mice infected with acyclovir-resistant herpes simplex virus.	The purpose of this study was to determine whether acyclovir resistance in mice infected with herpes simplex virus could be overcome by using high doses of acyclovir or vidarabine alone or by using a combination of the two drugs. The results indicate that the mice infected intracerebrally were refractory to acyclovir alone but responded to vidarabine or a combination of vidarabine and acyclovir. These observations have major implications for the clinical management of severe herpetic infections, particularly if attempts are to be made to devise means of circumventing drug resistance.
Evaluation of (+)-cyclaradine-5'-esters as prodrugs for (+)-cyclaradine in animals.	Both (+)-cyclaradine-5'-methoxyacetate (CM) and (+)-cyclaradine-5'-ethoxypropionate (CE) were converted to (+)-cyclaradine (C) in squirrel monkey and human sera at 37 degrees C. CE was more stable than CM. After oral administration (20 mg base equivalent per kg) of either CM or CE, no unchanged esters were observed in serum of squirrel monkeys, rabbits, or rats. Instead, C was detected, indicating conversions of CM and CE to C in vivo. In squirrel monkeys, the areas under the curve (AUCs) of C obtained from oral dosing with CM were 61% higher than those obtained from dosing with C, indicating that CM may be a good prodrug for C. In squirrel monkeys, rabbits, and rats, CE resulted in a 20 to 90% higher AUC of C than did CM, indicating that CE was better absorbed than CM.
Treatment of cytomegalovirus pneumonia after marrow transplant with combined vidarabine and human leukocyte interferon.	Seven marrow transplant recipients were treated with human leukocyte interferon and vidarabine for cytomegalovirus pneumonia. Although the mean virus titer in biopsy and autopsy lung specimens from five patients decreased from 5 x 10(4) to 1 x 10(2) 50% tissue culture infective doses, there was little clinical evidence of efficacy and only one patient survived. Treatment was stopped in four patients because of declining neutrophil counts, and two of these four patients also showed severe neurotoxicity. The combination of these agents was neither safe nor effective for the treatment of cytomegalovirus pneumonia after marrow transplantation.
Assessment of acyclovir on acute ocular infection induced by drug-resistant strains of HSV-1.	Effects of topical acyclovir treatment on rabbit eyes infected with parent McKrae, idoxuridine-resistant, and vidarabine-resistant strains of HSV-1 were studied. Topical acyclovir therapy given four times a day was significantly more effective than idoxuridine and vidarabine at suppressing acute herpetic ocular disease induced by either sensitive or drug-resistant strains of HSV-1. Virus isolation from neural tissues indicated that none of the therapy prevented viral infection of the nervous system.
Enhancement of anti-cancer effect by potential lethal damage repair(PLDR)-inhibitors]	Nucleoside analogues (3'-dG, Ara-A) have recently been found to be an effective chemical substance for inhibiting the recovery of potential lethal damage caused by radiation and anti-cancer drugs. By combination of radiation and inhibitors, both Ara-A and 3'-dG produced a higher sensitivity effect closer to the center of "Spheroid". In the experimental tumor S-180, combination of adriamycin , cyclophosphamide and Ara-A produced an eminent sensitivity effect amounting to the enhancement ratio of 1.24 and 1.36. By combination of 5-FU and 3'-dG, an enhancement ratio of 1.39 was obtained. These findings indicate the possibility that these inhibitors may be used as a chemosensitizer and also suggest that they would be useful for chemotherapy in the future.
Evaluation of prodrugs of 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine for therapeutic efficacy in the topical treatment of genital herpesvirus infections in guinea pigs.	Prodrugs of the antiviral agent 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine (araA), which were more effective than the parent compound in penetrating vaginal membranes in vitro, were synthesized and examined for efficacy in the topical treatment of genital infections with herpes simplex virus type 2 in female guinea pigs. Treatment with 10% araA-5'-monophosphate or 10% araA-5'-monovalerate twice a day for 7 days, starting 6 h after intravaginal inoculation with virus, completely aborted the primary infection. When initiation of treatment was delayed until 24 h postinfection, araA-5'-monophosphate and araA-5'-monovalerate were no longer effective in reducing the mean lesion scores or mean vaginal virus titers. Treatment with 5% acyclovir, starting at 24 h postinfection, failed to prevent genital lesion development but significantly reduced the peak mean lesion score (approximately 50%). Topical therapy with 10% araA-2',3'-diacetate, initiated at 24 h postinfection, was as effective as, if not more effective than, acyclovir in reducing the severity of herpes genitalis in guinea pigs. Treatment with 10% araA-2',3'-dipropionate or 10% araA-2',3'-dibutyrate was without benefit. Among a series of 5'-monoesters of araA, araA-5'-monobutyrate appeared to be the most effective but was less active than araA-2',3'-diacetate. These data indicate that araA-2',3'-diacetate may be an effective antiviral agent for topical use against genital herpesvirus infections.
The expanding role of fludarabine in hematologic malignancies.	The major clinical experience with fludarabine has been obtained in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). In the initial studies in previously treated patients with CLL, the complete and partial response rate (CR + PR) was over 50%, and in previously untreated patients with CLL, a CR + PR rate of 75-80% was noted with or without the addition of prednisone. Subsequent clinical trials have also demonstrated major activity with fludarabine in Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia. Fludarabine was noted to be an active agent in indolent lymphoma in phase I/II studies. Approximately 60% of patients with follicular lymphoma respond to fludarabine when it is administered as a single agent. Many of these remissions are complete remissions despite patients having received extensive prior therapy. Combination programs are being developed for application in CLL and indolent lymphoma. Because of the activity of fludarabine in inhibiting DNA repair, it has been combined with cisplatinum and cytosine arabinoside and plans are in place to explore the radiation sensitizing effect of fludarabine in clinical trials. A combination of fludarabine plus ara-C is now being used in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia (AML) and myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and a combination of fludarabine, ara-C, and G-CSF (FLAG) has been combined with idarubicin for the management of these conditions. Many of these activities of fludarabine are associated with its interaction with many enzymes which are important in DNA and RNA metabolism and in DNA repair. It is anticipated that these actions will be explored in a wider range of studies subsequently.
Combination of fludarabine and arabinosylcytosine for treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia: clinical efficacy and modulation of arabinosylcytosine pharmacology.	Previous studies have demonstrated that treatment with fludarabine 4 h prior to arabinosylcytosine (ara-C) potentiates the accumulation of the active triphosphate of ara-C (ara-CTP) in leukemic lymphocytes. The clinical efficacy of this combination was evaluated in 15 patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) that was advanced in their disease (median Rai stage, IV) and refractory to treatment with fludarabine. Patients received 0.5 g/m2 ara-C infused i.v. over 2 h followed at 20 h by a 30-min infusion of 30 mg/m2 fludarabine. At 24 h, an identical dose of ara-C was infused. To intensity the therapy and to determine the duration of fludarabine potentiation of ara-CTP accumulation, six additional patients with Rai stage III or IV CLL were treated with an amended 2-week protocol. On week 1, 30 mg/m2 fludarabine was infused over 30 min, followed 4 h later by a 2-h infusion of 0.5 g/m2 ara-C; on week 2, the fludarabine dose was followed 4 h later by a 4-h infusion of ara-C (1.0 g/m2). In all, 1 partial remission and 7 minor responses in 1 or more disease sites were observed in the 21 patients. The major treatment-related toxic effects were myelosuppression and infection. Comparison of the ara-CTP accumulation area under the concentration-time curve (AUC) in circulating CLL cells of patients on the amended protocol demonstrated a significant (P = 0.001) 1.6-fold (range, 1.4- to 2.0-fold) increase after fludarabine administration. Although the initial rates of ara-CTP accumulation were similar for the 2-h and 4-h infusions, ara-CTP accumulation continued for up to 4 h in four of five patients who received the longer infusion. The activity of the fludarabine and ara-C combination is being evaluated in in vitro model systems and in phase II clinical trials in combination with other drugs.
Therapeutic effects of 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine and 2'-deoxycoformycin combinations on intracerebral leukemia.	Drug combinations of 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine and 2'-deoxycoformycin were active in the therapy of mice with intracerebral implants of the L1210 tumor. In in vivo mouse brain adenosine deaminase studies, inhibition of 9-beta-D-arabinofuranosyladenine deamination for periods of up to 24 hr was found after a single i.p. dose of 0.002 mmole/kg.
Effect of vidarabine and related compounds on corneal endothelium.	The endothelial surface of rabbit corneas was perfused with vidarabine monophosphate (with and without adenosine deaminase inhibitor), vidarabine (with and without adenosine deaminase inhibitor), and ara-Hx. In concentrations 10 times to 1,500 times higher than those that have been obtained in the aqueous humor following topical, subconjunctival, or systemic administration, none of the compounds had any effect on corneal endothelial cell function or ultrastructure for the duration of the experimental model.
First line Fludarabine treatment of symptomatic chronic lymphoproliferative diseases: clinical results and molecular analysis of minimal residual disease.	Fludarabine (25 mg/m2 for 5 d, every 4 wk, for 6 courses) was administered as first line therapy in 32 symptomatic chronic lymphoproliferative diseases. All CLL patients achieved at least partial response (5 CR, 2 nPR, 9 PR) but 44% of patients relapsed. In LG-NHLs response and relapse rate were similar. Haematological toxicity was low. VDJ rearrangement PCR analysis was performed on marrow samples at diagnosis and at the time of response evaluation. In the 3 patients who underwent high dose therapy with peripheral blood progenitor cell rescue analysis was also performed on apheresis samples and on marrow samples at the end of the procedure. Clonal VDJ rearrangement was always evident after Fludarabine therapy even in those patients who achieved histological and immunophenotypic complete remission, whereas it disappeared in 2 of 3 patients who underwent HDT. Our data confirm that Fludarabine monotherapy can reduce the neoplastic mass to a subclinical level and suggest the possibility that high dose therapy might produce true complete remission.
The pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of fludarabine in rheumatoid arthritis.	To describe the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of fludarabine in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
