Efficacy and safety of oral fludarabine phosphate in previously untreated patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	A prospective, multicenter, open-label, phase II clinical trial to assess oral fludarabine phosphate treatment in terms of safety, efficacy, and quality of life. Reference to a historical group of patients treated with the intravenous (IV) formulation allowed the two formulations to be compared.
Chronic lymphocytic leukemia cells display p53-dependent drug-induced Puma upregulation.	We investigated the apoptosis gene expression profile of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells in relation to (1) normal peripheral and tonsillar B-cell subsets, (2) IgV(H) mutation status, and (3) effects of cytotoxic drugs. In accord with their noncycling, antiapoptotic status in vivo, CLL cells displayed high constitutive expression of Bcl-2 and Flip mRNA, while Survivin, Bid and Bik were absent. Paradoxically, along with these antiapoptotic genes CLL cells had high-level expression of proapoptotic BH3-only proteins Bmf and Noxa. Treatment of CLL cells with fludarabine induced only the proapoptotic genes Bax and Puma in a p53-dependent manner. Interestingly, the degree of Puma induction was more pronounced in cells with mutated IgVH genes. Thus, disturbed apoptosis in CLL is the net result of both protective and sensitizing aberrations. This delicate balance can be tipped via induction of Puma in a p53-dependent matter, the level of which may vary between groups of patients with a different tendency for disease progression.
Innovations in antineoplastic therapy.	Cancer is a complex group of diseases. Many of the current treatment modalities available provide limited effectiveness and significant side effects. This circumstance creates a challenge for health care providers. There is great need for the development of innovative therapies that increase efficacy and decrease morbidity. In general, chemotherapeutic agents are unable to distinguish cancer cells from normal cells. As a result of therapy, patients may develop significant myelosuppression. Patients who are undergoing chemotherapy need to be observed for signs of hematologic and nonhematologic toxicities. Patients should be advised that periodic blood tests are indicated to monitor for anemia, neutropenia, and thrombocytopenia. If myelosuppression develops, measures to prevent complications such as bleeding and infection are indicated. Strategies to combat fatigue should also be discussed. Understanding of the biology of cancer has increased significantly in recent years. As knowledge of the science grows, new therapies are developed and clinical trials are initiated to investigate feasibility and efficacy of agents. Many of these trials involve agents that target specific biologic processes of cancer. While the complexities of cancer treatment are prolonging the life expectancy of patients who have the disease, patients are presenting with increasing numbers and types of morbidities. Nurses need to be aware of the rationale for treatment, mechanism of action of the agents administered, and expected toxicities of therapies. With this knowledge, symptoms can be identified earlier, life-threatening sequela can possibly be averted, and patients and families can be educated about what to expect and how to make knowledgeable decisions about treatment options. Enhancing patients' knowledge base may also increase their adherence to challenging therapies.
Inhibition of primer RNA formation in CCRF-CEM leukemia cells by fludarabine triphosphate.	The effects of fludarabine triphosphate (Fara-ATP), 1-beta-D-arabinofuranosylcytosine 5'-triphosphate (ara-CTP), and aphidicolin on primer RNA and DNA synthesis in human CCRF-CEM leukemia cells were investigated. RNA-primed Okazaki fragment synthesis was monitored by first incubating whole cell lysates for 10 min in the presence or absence of the compound and then following the incorporation of [alpha-32P]ATP and [3H]dTTP into the primer RNA and DNA portions, respectively, of the Okazaki fragments. In whole cell lysates the degree of DNA synthesis inhibition induced by Fara-ATP was directly related to the extent of primer RNA synthesis inhibition over the entire range of Fara-ATP concentrations tested (10-50 microM). In contrast, primer RNA formation was stimulated by concentrations of ara-CTP (25-200 microM) and aphidicolin (0.5-5 micrograms/ml) that inhibited DNA synthesis. The primer RNA recovered from cell lysates incubated with either Fara-ATP, ara-CTP, or aphidicolin was of normal length, predominately 11 nucleotides. Fara-ATP was a more potent inhibitor of the polydeoxythymidylate primase activity than of the DNA polymerase alpha/delta activities present in the 100,000 x g supernatants of CCRF-CEM cells. Fara-ATP was a noncompetitive inhibitor of DNA primase with respect to ATP [50% inhibitory concentration, 2.3 +/- 0.3 (SD) microM, Ki = 6.1 +/- 0.3 (SE) microM] and the Km(ATP)/Ki (Fara-ATP) was 25. The 50% inhibitory concentration values of Fara-ATP for DNA polymerases alpha/delta activities on calf thymus DNA were 43 +/- 1.6 (SD) microM and greater than 100 microM with respect to dATP and dTTP. The effects of ara-CTP and aphidicolin on these enzymes were opposite those seen with Fara-ATP, since 50% inhibitory concentrations of either ara-CTP or aphidicolin for DNA polymerases alpha/delta did not inhibit polydeoxythymidylate primase activity. The results provide evidence that fludarabine phosphate blocks DNA synthesis in CCRF-CEM cells through inhibition of primer RNA formation. In contrast, the accumulation of primer RNA and RNA-primed Okazaki fragments that is induced by ara-CTP and aphidicolin could lead to the rereplication and amplification of chromosomal DNA segments.
Multifocal extranodal mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma affecting the larynx.	Extranodal marginal B-cell lymphoma of mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue (MALT) accounts for about 7% to 8% of all B-cell lymphomas and 50% of all gastric lymphomas. Long-term localized growth is typical of MALT lymphoma. Multifocal manifestations are possible in advanced stages. MALT lymphoma of the larynx is a very rare disease; only 15 cases have been reported in the literature.
2Chlorodeoxyadenosine therapy of patients with Waldenström macroglobulinemia previously treated with fludarabine.	Fludarabine monophosphate and 2Chlorodeoxyadenosine are nucleoside analogues with activity against Waldenström macroglobulinemia. However, it is not clear whether prior exposure to one analogue precludes response to the other compound.
