Robotic surgery and resident training.	Robotic technology promises to have an important future in surgery, but few residency programs incorporate robotics into surgical training. We sought to compare the speed and accuracy with which junior residents could perform laparoscopic tasks using both a robotic surgical device (Zeus MicroWrist) and conventional laparoscopic instruments.
Initial experience with remote catheter ablation using a novel magnetic navigation system: magnetic remote catheter ablation.	Catheters are typically stiff and incorporate a pull-wire mechanism to allow tip deflection. While standing at the patient's side, the operator manually navigates the catheter in the heart using fluoroscopic guidance.
An experimental comparison of 3-dimensional and 2-dimensional endoscopic systems in a model.	This study compares the effect of new electronic display systems using endoscopic instruments on intrathoracal maneuvering and targeting under standardized conditions. A 2-dimensional (2-D) vision system is compared with 2 stereoscopic 3-dimensional (3-D) video technologies, called "shutter glasses," and the head-mounted display (HMD) system.
Intraoperative sentinel lymph node mapping of the lung using near-infrared fluorescent quantum dots.	The presence of lymph node metastases is an important prognostic marker with regard to non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Assessment of the sentinel lymph node (SLN) for the presence of tumor may improve staging. Our objective was to develop an optical noninvasive imaging tool that would permit intraoperative SLN mapping and provide real-time visual feedback for image-guided localization and resection.
Digital recording of surgical procedures using a personal computer.	To develop a system for recording surgical procedure digitally using a personal computer with real-time compression of the video signal.
Videoendosurgical diagnosis and treatment of abdominal injuries in combined trauma]	Experience with videolaparoscopy in 1332 patients with combined abdominal trauma is analyzed. The original method of diagnosis of traumatic abdominal multitraumas in shock patients was proposed and patented. Diagnostic and treatment algorithm for hemoperitoneum in patients with abdominal multitrauma based on USE or CT data on liquid in the abdominal cavity has been developed. Videolaparoscopy helped to avoid open surgery in 73.3% patients with dominating abdominal trauma.
Optimum view distance for laparoscopic surgery.	Proper visualization of the surgical field without fatigue is essential in laparoscopic surgery and reduces the risk of iatrogenic injuries. One of the important factors influencing visualization is the viewing distance between the surgeon and the monitor. This was the subject of the current investigation.
Assessment of recurrent laryngeal nerve during thyroid surgery with laryngeal mask airway.	To study the feasibility of using laryngeal mask anesthesia (LMA) with bronchoscopic evaluation of recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) integrity when stimulated.
Comparison of modified and conventional methods in orotracheal intubetion of GlideScope videolaryngoscope]	To compare the modified and conventional methods in orotracheal intubation of GlideScope videolaryngoscope.
Tracheal intubation in a patient with undetectable tracheal narrowing on chest radiography.	We report here a 59-year-old man with a saber-sheath tracheal narrowing who was scheduled to undergo pharyngeal tumor resection under general anesthesia. The tracheal narrowing was not clearly detected by chest radiography during the preoperative examination, but it was visible on axial computed tomography (CT) images taken earlier for diagnostic purposes. Following fiber optic examination of the narrowed segment with the patient under anesthesia, the tube was inserted into the trachea using an Airway Scope. The tube was deliberately advanced into the trachea and was able to pass through the stenosis without any resistance. On postoperative radiological analysis, three-dimensional reconstruction of the trachea and virtual bronchoscopic images revealed a saber-sheath type tracheomalacia located from below the cricoid cartilage to the carina. The membranous wall had a normal width. This case indicates that chest radiographs may occasionally be inadequate for evaluating asymptomatic patients with tracheomalacia. If CT images have been taken for diagnostic purposes, they should be examined together with the chest radiograph. Digital chest radiography with edge enhancement may become a useful tool in the preoperative detection and evaluation of undetectable tracheal narrowing on conventional chest films.
Macintosh and Glidescope® performance by Advanced Cardiac Life Support providers: a manikin study.	The aim of the present study was to assess whether the use of the Glidescope® would improve the success rates and the duration of intubation attempts during airway management when compared to direct laryngoscopy in Advanced Cardiac Life Support (ACLS) providers with no prior experience in videolaryngoscopy.
A videoscope for use in minimally invasive periodontal surgery.	Minimally invasive periodontal procedures have been reported to produce excellent clinical results. Visualization during minimally invasive procedures has traditionally been obtained by the use of surgical telescopes, surgical microscopes, glass fibre endoscopes or a combination of these devices. All of these methods for visualization are less than fully satisfactory due to problems with access, magnification and blurred imaging.
Surgical infection in a videolaparoscopic cholecystectomy when using peracetic acid for the sterilization of instruments.	To determine the frequency of surgical site infection in patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy with instruments sterilized by peracetic acid.
Advantage of microscope integrated for both indocyanine green and fluorescein videoangiography on aneurysmal surgery: case report.	Neck clipping of a large middle cerebral artery aneurysm was performed using a newly developed surgical microscope integrated with modules for both indocyanine green (ICG) and fluorescein videoangiography. During surgery, ICG and fluorescein videoangiography by intra-arterial or intravenous injection were safely carried out without interrupting the surgical procedure. Based on the findings obtained from the case, we evaluated the differences between the dyes and the injection routes. With intra-arterial injection, fluorescein offered sharper contrast images and was better at depicting fine arteries than ICG. Patchy staining of vessel walls was observed in intravenous fluorescein videoangiography, while it was not evident in ICG. Intra-arterial injection method had a great advantage in the rapid clearance of the dyes, which allowed us to perform repeated videoangiography within a short period, and was useful in detecting incomplete clipping in this case; however, catheter insertion requires additional work and carries a potential risk. Use of a microscope integrated for both ICG and fluorescein videoangiography would be another method for repeated evaluation. Namely, alternate use of the dyes enables us to perform videoangiography in a short time even via intravenous injection. 
