Vinflunine, the latest Vinca alkaloid in clinical development. A review of its preclinical anticancer properties.	Vinflunine is a new Vinca alkaloid uniquely fluorinated, by the use of superacid chemistry, in a little exploited region of the catharanthine moiety. In vitro investigations have confirmed the mitotic-arresting and tubulin-interacting properties of vinflunine shared by other Vinca alkaloids. However, differences in terms of the inhibitory effects of vinflunine on microtubules dynamics and its tubulin binding affinities have been identified which appear to distinguish it from the other Vinca alkaloids. Vinflunine induced smaller spirals with a shorter relaxation time, effects, which might be associated with reduced neurotoxicity. Studies investigating the in vitro cytotoxicity of vinflunine in combination therapy have revealed a high level of synergy when vinflunine was combined with either cisplatin, mitomycin C, doxorubicin or 5-fluorouracil. Furthermore, although vinflunine appears to participate in P-glycoprotein-mediated drug resistance mechanisms, it has proved only a weak substrate for this protein and a far less potent inducer of resistance than vinorelbine. Vinflunine was identified in preclinical studies as having marked antitumour activity in vivo against a large panel of experimental tumour models, with tumour regressions being recorded in human renal and small cell lung cancer tumour xenografts. Overall its level of activity was superior to that of vinorelbine in many of the experimental models used. Interestingly, an in vivo study using a well vascularised adenocarcinoma of the colon has suggested that vinflunine mediates its antitumour activity at least in part via an antivascular mechanism, even at sub-cytotoxic doses. Therefore, these data provide a favourable preclinical profile for vinflunine, supporting its promising candidacy for clinical development. Phase I evaluations of vinflunine have been completed in Europe and phase II clinical trials are now ongoing.
Upregulation of phosphodiesterase 1A1 expression is associated with the development of nitrate tolerance.	The efficacy of nitroglycerin (NTG) as a vasodilator is limited by tolerance, which develops shortly after treatment begins. In vascular smooth muscle cells (VSMCs), NTG is denitrated to form nitric oxide (NO), which activates guanylyl cyclase and generates cGMP. cGMP plays a key role in nitrate-induced vasodilation by reducing intracellular Ca(2+) concentration. Therefore, one possible mechanism for development of nitrate tolerance would be increased activity of the cGMP phosphodiesterase (PDE), which decreases cGMP levels.
The nootropic drug vinpocetine inhibits veratridine-induced [Ca2+]i increase in rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells.	The alkaloid derivative vinpocetine (14-ethoxycarbonyl-(3alpha,16alpha-ethyl)-14,15-eburnamine; Cavinton) has a well known beneficial effect on brain function in hypoxic and ischemic conditions. While it increases CNS blood flow and improves cellular metabolism, relatively little is known about vinpocetine's underlying molecular mechanisms on the single cell level. Since apoptotic and necrotic cell damage is always preceded by an increase in [Ca2+]i, this study investigated the effect of vinpocetine on [Ca2+]i increases in acute brain slices. Sodium influx is an early event in the biochemical cascade that takes place during ischemia. The alkaloid veratridine can activate this Na+ influx, causing depolarization and increasing [Ca2+]i in the cells. Therefore, it can be used to simulate an ischemic attack in brain cells. Using a cooled CCD camera-based ratio imaging system and cell loading with fura 2/AM, the effect of vinpocetine on [Ca2+]i changes in single pyramidal neurons in the vulnerable CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices was investigated. Preperfusion and continuous administration of vinpocetine (10 microM) significantly inhibited the elevation in [Ca2+]i induced by veratridine (10 microM). When the drug was administered after veratridine, it could accelerate the recovery of cellular calcium levels. Piracetam, another nootropic used in clinical practice, could attenuate the elevation of [Ca2+]i only at a high, 1 mM, concentration. We have concluded that vinpocetine, at a pharmacologically relevant concentration, can decrease pathologically high [Ca2+]i levels in individual rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons; this effect might contribute to the neuroprotective property of the drug.
Asymptomatic ischemic cerebrovascular disorders and neuroprotection with vinpocetine.	The asymptomatic ischemic cerebrovascular disorders (AICVD) is an early manifestation of cerebrovascular disease. It is also known as latent insufficiency of the cerebrovascular circulation or as asymptomatic cerebrovascular disorders. Recently, the term subclinical disease, detected noninvasively, has been introduced by American Heart Association. The diagnosis is based on the following criteria: evidence of vascular risk factors; episodic nonspecific complaints without any focal cerebral symptoms; mild cognitive deficit, detected by neuropsychological tests; carotid ultrasonography often shows intimal-medial thickening, atherosclerotic plaques and carotid stenosis; CT and MRI occasionally reveal silent cerebral infarctions, white matter hyperintensities or cerebral atrophy; regional hypoperfusion above the ischemic threshold is also seen by rCBF measurements. Treatment of the AICVD, modifying the vascular risk factors and using neuroprotective agents, should be the cornerstone of primary prevention of ischemic stroke and cognitive decline, caused by cerebrovascular disorders. Vinpocetine has been found to interfere with various stages of the ischemic cascade: ATP depletion, activation of voltage-sensitive Na(+)- and Ca(++)-channels, glutamate and free radicals release. The inhibition of the voltage-sensitive Na(+)-channels appears to be especially relevant to the neuroprotective effect of vinpocetine. Pronounced antioxidant activity of the drug could also contribute to the neuroprotection. PET studies in primates and man showed that 11C labelled vinpocetine passes the blood-brain barrier rapidly. Heterogeneous brain distribution of the compound was observed mainly in the thalamus, basal ganglia, occipital, parietal and temporal cortex, regions which are closely related to the cognitive functions. PET studies in chronic ischemic stroke patients revealed favourable effects of vinpocetine on rCBF and glucose metabolism in the thalamus, basal ganglia and primary visual cortex. It seems, vinpocetine, affecting the multiple mechanisms of the AICVD, could be of benefit for the treatment in this early stage of cerebrovascular disease. Vinpocetine may also become a new therapeutic approach to prophylactic neuroprotection in patients at high risk of ischemic stroke.
Targeting microtubules for cancer chemotherapy.	Chemical compounds that interfere with microtubules such as the vinca alkaloids and taxanes are important chemotherapeutic agents for the treatment of cancer. As our knowledge of microtubule-targeting drugs increases, we realize that the mechanism underlying the anti-cancer activity of these agents may mainly lie in their inhibitory effects on spindle microtubule dynamics, rather than in their effects on microtubule polymer mass. There is increasing evidence showing that even minor alteration of microtubule dynamics can engage the spindle checkpoint, arresting cell cycle progression at mitosis and eventually leading to apoptotic cell death. The effectiveness of microtubule-targeting drugs for cancer therapy has been impaired by various side effects, notably neurological and hematological toxicities. Drug resistance is another notorious factor that thwarts the effectiveness of these agents, as with many other cancer chemotherapeutics. Several new microtubule-targeting agents have shown potent activity against the proliferation of various cancer cells, including cells that display resistance to the existing microtubule-targeting drugs. Continued investigation of the mechanisms of action of microtubule-targeting drugs, development and discovery of new drugs, and exploring new treatment strategies that reduce side effects and circumvent drug resistance may provide more effective therapeutic options for cancer patients.
Aging of tubulin at neutral pH: the destabilizing effect of vinca alkaloids.	The effect of the vinca alkaloid drugs, vincristine, vinblastine, catharanthine, and vindoline, on the aging process of tubulin has been examined. It was found that addition of vincristine or vinblastine accelerated by a factor of 3-3.5 the transformation of tubulin from the 5.8 S alpha-beta-tubulin dimer to paucidisperse polymers, with an average sedimentation coefficient of 9 S, previously observed in the absence of drugs (V. Prakash and S. N. Timasheff, 1982, J. Mol. Biol. 160, 499-515). This transformation of tubulin from 5.8 S to "9 S" followed pseudo-first-order kinetics whether the starting protein was predominantly dimeric (i.e., at low drug concentration) or self-associated into the reversible linear polymers induced by the vinca alkaloid drugs at high drug concentration (G. C. Na and S. N. Timasheff, 1980, Biochemistry 19, 1355-1365; V. Prakash and S. N. Timasheff, 1985, Biochemistry 24, 5004-5010). Identical kinetics were found in a fluorescence examination of the loss by tubulin of its ability to bind colchicine specifically, indicating that the rate determining step is a protein conformational change that induces a major change in the far uv circular dichroism spectrum of tubulin. The found lack of an effect of dithiothreitol on the aging and aggregation processes is consistent with the irreversible aggregation being due to the intermolecular coalescence of nonpolar patches on the protein. The observations that vincristine binds to aged tubulin and that the aging of tubulin is accompanied by quenching of the tryptophan fluorescence similar to that which occurs on the binding of the vinca drugs has led to the proposal that the vinca alkaloids stabilize the aged conformation of the protein by interacting with nonpolar regions that may be related to the aggregation sites.
Effects of aspirin, dipyridamole, nifedipine and cavinton which act on platelet aggregation induced by different aggregating agents alone and in combination.	The effects of aspirin, nifedipine, dipyridamole and cavinton on platelet aggregability in patients with atherosclerosis has been studied using various agents to induce aggregation. The drugs reduced platelet aggregability when aggregation was induced by ADP, adrenaline, or collagen alone. However, if platelet aggregation were induced by combinations of the agonists (including combinations of ADP with either adrenaline or platelet-activating factor (PAF), adrenaline with PAF, and collagen with ADP), the anti-aggregant effects of aspirin, dipyridamole, and cavinton were significantly reduced. The effect of nifedipine was less markedly reduced, especially by combinations which included adrenaline. The data suggest that positive agonist interactions may lead to a reduction in the therapeutic activity of antiplatelet drugs.
Examinations of the relative fluidity in cerebrovascular disease patients.	Parallel with the increasing incidence of cerebrovascular diseases, and the limitations of possible surgical methods, the importance of drug therapy has significantly increased. Due to our knowledge of haemorheology the effectiveness of therapies may be measured by means of useful circulatory markers. In course of our research activities of one and a half decades the changes in blood viscosity were measured during vinpocetine therapy, and were compared to the changes of haematocrit and mean corpuscular volume (MCV) values. The effect of vinpocetine and secale alkaloids or vinpocetine and pentoxifylline were compared by sequential analysis in other cases. The results of these examinations proved that vinpocetine is effective in both short and long-term therapy.
Protective effect of a novel vinca alkaloid derivative, vinconate, against alterations in binding sites of second messengers after transient cerebral ischemia in gerbils.	1. We investigated the alterations in binding sites of three major second messengers, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and forskolin following transient cerebral ischemia in gerbils, and examined the effects of a novel vinca alkaloid derivative, vinconate against the alterations in the binding of the second messengers following ischemia. 2. Transient cerebral ischemia produced by bilateral occlusion of the common carotid arteries was induced for 10 min, and intraperitoneal administration of vinconate (100 mg/kg and 300 mg/kg) was given 10 min before ischemia. 3. Morphological study indicated that transient ischemia can produce severe neuronal damage in striatum, hippocampal CA1 sector and hippocampal CA3 sector. 4. Transient cerebral ischemia caused the postischemic alterations in the binding of three second messengers. 5. The postischemic alterations in the binding of second messengers were ameliorated by pretreatment with vinconate. This effect was especially observed in the striatum which was most vulnerable to ischemia. 6. These findings are discussed in relation to the mechanism of ischemic neuronal damage.
Inhibitory effects of different antioxidants on hyaluronan depolymerization.	Hyaluronan (HA) was depolymerized by hydroxyl radicals generated from hydrogen peroxide and cupric ions. Inhibition of HA degradation by four well-known antioxidants was investigated, as HA can scavenge reactive oxygen species (ROS). Change in hyaluronan molecular weight was observed by size-exclusion chromatography. Inhibition of HA degradation was estimated from the retention times observed. It was found that HA degradation was inhibited in a clearly concentration-dependent manner by mannitol, thiourea and vinpocetine. Propofol also inhibited the depolymerization, but its concentration-dependent effect was not so clear. The antioxidant concentrations at which HA degradation was decreased by 50% were 42 microM for thiourea; 1.35 microM for vinpocetine; and 0.39 microM for propofol. A concentration of 26.51 mM of mannitol was needed to attain the same inhibitory effect. Although many factors are involved in a therapeutic response, the results obtained in this study support the idea that HA may be protected from ROS attack by the concomitant use of well-known antioxidants.
Effect of ethyl apovincaminate on the utilization of 14C-glucoses by rat brain in vitro.	The effect of the presence of 500 micrograms ethyl epovincaminate (Cavinton) on the aerobic metabolism of 14C-labelled glucoses was studied in vitro. The drug tested increased the metabolism of [1-14C]-D-glucose first of all, which indicated a significant activation of pentose-phosphate shunt.
Mechanism of inhibition of cell proliferation by Vinca alkaloids.	We have used a structure-activity approach to investigate whether the Vinca alkaloids inhibit cell proliferation primarily by means of their effects on mitotic spindle microtubules or by another mechanism or by a combination of mechanisms. Five Vinca alkaloids were used to investigate the relationship in HeLa cells between inhibition of cell proliferation and blockage of mitosis, alteration of spindle organization, and depolymerization of microtubules. Indirect immunofluorescence staining of microtubules and 4,6-diamidino-2-phenylindole staining of chromatin were used to characterize the effects of the drugs on the distributions of cells in stages of the cell cycle and on the organization of microtubules and chromosomes in metaphase spindles. The microtubule polymer was isolated from cells and quantified using a competitive enzyme-linked immunoadsorbent assay for tubulin. We observed a nearly perfect coincidence between the concentration of each Vinca derivative that inhibited cell proliferation and the concentration that caused 50% accumulation of cells at metaphase, despite the fact that the antiproliferative potencies of the drugs varied over a broad concentration range. Inhibition of cell proliferation and blockage of cells at metaphase at the lowest effective concentrations of all Vinca derivatives occurred with little or no microtubule depolymerization or spindle disorganization. With increasing drug concentrations, the organization of microtubules and chromosomes in arrested mitotic spindles deteriorated in a manner that was common to all five congeners. These results indicate that the antiproliferative activity of the Vinca alkaloids at their lowest effective concentrations in HeLa cells is due to inhibition of mitotic spindle function. The results suggest further that the Vinca alkaloids inhibit cell proliferation by altering the dynamics of tubulin addition and loss at the ends of mitotic spindle microtubules rather than by depolymerizing the microtubules. The specific alterations of spindle microtubule dynamics appear to differ among the five Vinca congeners, and such differences may be responsible for differences in the antitumor specificities of the drugs.
Identification of cytosolic phosphodiesterases in the erythrocyte: a possible role for PDE5.	Within erythrocytes (RBCs), cAMP levels are regulated by phosphodiesterases (PDEs). Increases in cAMP and ATP release associated with activation of β-adrenergic receptors (βARs) and prostacyclin receptors (IPRs) are regulated by PDEs 2, 4 and PDE 3, respectively. Here we establish the presence of cytosolic PDEs in RBCs and determine a role for PDE5 in regulating levels of cGMP.
Combining doublecortin-like kinase silencing and vinca alkaloids results in a synergistic apoptotic effect in neuroblastoma cells.	Microtubule-destabilizing agents, such as vinca alkaloids (VAs), are part of the treatment currently applied in patients with high-risk neuroblastoma (NB). However, the development of drug resistance and toxicity make NB difficult to treat with these drugs. In this study we explore the combination of VAs (vincristine or vinblastine) with knockdown of the microtubule-associated proteins encoded by the doublecortin-like kinase (DCLK) gene by using short interference RNA (siRNA). We examined the effect of VAs and DCLK knockdown on the microtubule network by immunohistochemistry. We performed dose-response studies on cell viability and proliferation. By combining VA with DCLK knockdown we observed a strong reduction in the EC(50) to induce cell death: up to 7.3-fold reduction of vincristine and 21.1-fold reduction of vinblastine. Using time-lapse imaging of phosphatidylserine translocation and a terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase dUTP nick-end labeling-based assay, we found a significant increase of apoptosis by the combined treatment. Induction of caspase-3 activity, as detected via cleavage of N-acetyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-7-amido-4-methylcoumarin, showed a 3.3- to 12.0-fold increase in the combined treatment. We detected significant increases in caspase-8 activity as well. Moreover, the multidrug dose effect calculated by using the median effect method showed a strong synergistic inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis at most of the combined concentrations of siRNAs and VAs. Together, our data demonstrate that the silencing of DCLK sensitizes NB cells to VAs, resulting in a synergetic apoptotic effect.
Early alcohol exposure disrupts visual cortex plasticity in mice.	There is growing evidence that deficits in neuronal plasticity underlie the cognitive problems seen in fetal alcohol spectrum disorders (FASD). However, the mechanisms behind these deficits are not clear. Here we test the effects of early alcohol exposure on ocular dominance plasticity (ODP) in mice and the reversibility of these effects by phosphodiesterase (PDE) inhibitors. Mouse pups were exposed to 5 g/kg of 25% ethanol i.p. on postnatal days (P) 5, 7 and 9. This type of alcohol exposure mimics binge drinking during the third trimester equivalent of human gestation. To assess ocular dominance plasticity animals were monocularly deprived at P21 for 10 days, and tested using optical imaging of intrinsic signals. During the period of monocular deprivation animals were treated with vinpocetine (20mg/kg; PDE1 inhibitor), rolipram (1.25mg/kg; PDE4 inhibitor), vardenafil (3mg/kg; PDE5 inhibitor) or vehicle solution. Monocular deprivation resulted in the expected shift in ocular dominance of the binocular zone in saline controls but not in the ethanol group. While vinpocetine successfully restored ODP in the ethanol group, rolipram and vardenafil did not. However, when rolipram and vardenafil were given simultaneously ODP was restored. PDE4 and PDE5 are specific to cAMP and cGMP respectively, while PDE1 acts on both of these nucleotides. Our findings suggest that the combined activation of the cAMP and cGMP cascades may be a good approach to improve neuronal plasticity in FASD models.
Effects of vinpocetine and ozagrel on behavioral recovery of rats after global brain ischemia.	Brain ischemia leads to severe disruption of the nervous system and recovery is often prolonged. Rehabilitative post-ischemia pharmacological treatment may therefore be important for behavioral recovery, especially for cognition and motor behavior. The present study investigated the effects of combined vinpocetine and ozagrel administration on the behavioral recovery of rats from global brain ischemia. The results suggest that the combined treatment leads to significantly better improvement compared to single drug administration. We conclude that the combined use of vinpocetine and ozagrel may provide beneficial effects to patients suffering from brain ischemia. 
Comparative effects of vinpocetine and 8-Br-cyclic GMP on the contraction and 45Ca-fluxes in the rabbit aorta.	Vinpocetine is a highly specific inhibitor of calmodulin-dependent phosphodiesterase (CaM-PDE) with an IC50 of 19 microM and produces a significant accumulation of cyclic GMP but not cyclic AMP in rabbit aorta. In isolated rabbit aortic strips, vinpocetine (0.01 and 0.1 mM) inhibited the contraction and 45Ca uptake due to both phenylephrine (1 microM) and KCl (40 mM), whereas 8-Br-cyclic GMP (0.1-1mM) selectively impaired phenylephrine-induced responses. Furthermore, the KCl-stimulated 45Ca efflux in normal Ca2+ buffer, which reflects elevated cytosolic Ca2+, was greatly diminished by vinpocetine but not by 8-Br-cyclic GMP. However, phenylephrine-induced 45Ca efflux and contraction in Ca2+-free buffer, which reflect Ca2+ release from intracellular sites, were similarly inhibited by both vinpocetine and 8-Br-cyclic GMP. The results suggest that vinpocetine may effect vasodilatation through blockade of the slow channel and selective inhibition of CaM-PDE in the vascular smooth muscle.
Effects of indole alkaloids on multidrug resistance and labeling of P-glycoprotein by a photoaffinity analog of vinblastine.	Multidrug resistant cells are characterized by decreased drug accumulation and retention, thought to be mediated by a high molecular weight glycoprotein, P-glycoprotein (P-gp). Agents such as verapamil have been shown to increase anticancer drug cytotoxicity and increase the amount of drug accumulated and retained by such cells. We show here that in addition to verapamil, reserpine, chloroquine, quinine, quinacrine, yohimbine, vindoline, and catharanthine also enhance the cytotoxicity of vinblastine (VLB) in a multidrug resistant, human leukemic cell line, CEM/VLB1K, described here for the first time. These cells express P-gp as a doublet that is photoaffinity labeled by the analog of VLB, N(p-azido-[3-125I]salicyl)-N'-beta-aminoethylvindesine ([125I]NASV). Both reserpine and, to a lesser extent, verapamil, compete with [125I]NASV for binding to P-gp. We also found that chloroquine, quinacrine, vindoline, and catharanthine, each of which enhanced VLB cytotoxicity in CEM/VLB1K cells by 10- to 15-fold, similarly inhibited [125I]NASV labeling of P-gp. However, neither quinine nor yohimbine inhibited this labeling, and the inhibition produced by catharanthine and vindoline was the greatest or exclusively on the lower band of the P-gp doublet. Our results suggest a complex relationship between the ability of a compound to modulate MDR and its ability to compete for binding to P-gp.
Action of vinca alkaloides on calcium movements through mitochondrial membrane.	The antimitotic drugs Vinblastine and Vincristine partially counteract the decoupling effect of both calcium ionophore and Ca2+ on mitochondria. The partial restoration of respiratory control is mainly due to an action on oxidative rate in state 4. In the same manner the P/O ratio is partially restorated. Moreover Vinca alkaloides decrease both the calcium uptake rate and its amount into mitochondria during aerobiosis and slacken the calcium efflux. These results may be explained by a non specific effect of Vinca alkaloides on mitochondrial membrane and might lead to a change in cytoplasmic Ca2+ concentration. Recently, calcium influx blockers (calcium antagonists) have appeared to enhance the cytotoxicity of Vinca alkaloides and to circumvent the Vincristine resistance of some tumor cells (Takashi Tsuruo et al. 1981, 1983). Besides, ruthenium red is a membrane inorganic dye known to bind and inhibit some calcium carriers (mitochondrial carrier, ATP ase calcium dependent from sarcoplasmic reticulum and erythrocyte). This dye has proved to increase the Vinblastine cell accumulation and its toxicity on cells culture (Wilberding C. 1984). So calcium might be involved in the therapeutic activity of Vinca alkaloides. Therefore, in order to investigate this possible implication we studied the effect of these drugs on calcium movements in mitochondria.
Functional impairment of the primary nociceptive analyser in the course of transganglionic degenerative atrophy.	Latency to the hind-paw lick in the hot-plate test (54 degrees C) is significantly increased (P less than 0.001) in the course of transganglionic degenerative atrophy of central terminals of primary sensory neurons. This was induced by a 30 min perineural application of 10(-8) mol Formyl-Leurosin, which results in the blockade of retrograde axoplasmic transport without Wallerian degeneration of the peripheral nerve. Values of latency return to normal in the course of synaptoneogenetic restoration of neuronal connectivity in the upper dorsal horn. The results are compatible with the working hypothesis that the beneficial effect of chronic pain therapy with Vinca alkaloid iontophoresis might be due to the fact that transganglionic degenerative atrophy is followed by the establishment of a sound, normal wiring in the upper dorsal horn in the course of restorative synaptoneogenesis.
Influence of age upon the cerebral metabolic changes induced by acute hypoxia on the synaptosomes from dog brain.	The synaptosomal fraction obtained from the motor area of the cerebral cortex of normocapnic, normoxic or hypoxic "young adult," "mature" and "senescent" beagle dogs is incubated and analyzed for : ATP, ADP, AMP, creatine phosphate, pyruvate and lactate. The data are compared with those obtained from the whole controlateral cortical motor area, by the surface freezing technique. After hypoxic hypoxia /15 min; PaO2 = 17-19 mm Hg), the metabolite contents and ratios are differently affected by ageing when the evaluations are performed in the incubated synaptosomal preparation or in the controlateral whole cerebral tissue. In fact, ageing does not affect so much the cerebral changes that occur in the overall energetic state during the hypoxic assault in vivo, but rather those that the synaptosomes remember the tend to reverse during the subsequent incubation in vitro. The protective action of several drugs on the synaptosomal phosphorylation state is tested. Phenobarbital shows a quite broad, age-independent spectrum of action. (-)Eburnamonine and dihydroergocristine exhibits a more limited, age-dependent effectiveness, but are devoid of anesthetic action. Papaverine proves unable to affect the tested biochemical parameters.
Effect of vincamine on blood viscosity]	Pervincamine has been launched since several years for the therapy of cardiovascular disease. As the mechanism of efficacy is not known very well it has been investigated whether the substance has a favorable influence on the rheology of the blood in in vitro studies. The addition of different concentrations of Pervincamin to normoosmolar blood samples showed no change of the rheology of blood in vitro. Under hyperosmolar loading conditions as they can be found comparatively in the blood of the microcirculation of an ischemic working muscle, a statistically significant improvement of the filtration of erythrocytes can be found which is largely due to an improvement of the flexibility of the erythrocyte. These investigations show that Pervincamin effects favorably rheological properties under certain conditions. Further analyses are necessary in order to elucidate the relation between cerebrovascular insufficiency on one hand and the vincamin induced improvement of rheology on the other.
Antagonizing effects of VA-045 on reduced activity of rat locus coeruleus neurons following head injury or intravenous injection of clonidine.	Based on the finding that VA-045, a novel apovincaminic acid derivative, had improved disturbance in consciousness, we examined the effects of the drug on the electrical activity of locus coeruleus (LC) neurons in animal models of consciousness disturbance. The animal models of consciousness disturbance used in this experiment were closed head injury (CHI) and intravenous injection of clonidine. CHI as well as clonidine injection reduced the spontaneous activity of LC neurons. The reduction of the spontaneus activity of LC neurons following CHI or clonidine injection was restored by intravenous injection of VA-045. The change of LC neuronal activity induced VA-045 preceded desynchronization of EEG. These results suggest that VA-045 exerts its ameliorating effect on consciousness disturbances, at least in part, by augmenting the spontaneous activity of noradrenergic LC neurons.
Cerebral metabolic, hemodynamic and antihypoxic properties of l-eburnamonine.	l-Eburnamonine--16-oxoeburnane--assumes experimental cerebral 'oxygenator' and antihypoxic properties which appear more pronounced than those of vincamine. In anesthetized dogs, l-eburnamonine increases the cerebral oxygen supply and the cerebral oxygen consumption, without cerebral vasodilation; l-eburnamonine improves the cerebral capillary circulation, as observed on the rheoencephalogram. l-Eburnamonine inhibits the effects of hypobaric hypoxia in mice (increase of survival time) and in rats (inhibition of amnesic effects of hypoxia). l-Eburnamonine decreases the electroencephalographic consequences of the acute and iterative asphyxic anoxia in curarized rats and, by means of the protection of the cerebral cortex, inhibits the postischemic increase of thalamic somesthetic evoked potentials in curarized cats. Further studies are necessary to precise the mechanisms involved in these 'cerebral protective' properties of l-eburnamonine.
Effect of (-)eburnamonine, papaverine and UDP-glucose on cerebral energy state during and after experimental hypoxia and ischaemia in beagle dog.	The effect of (-)eburnamonine, papaverine and UDP-glucose intracarotid perfusion has been evaluated in the brain of beagle dogs during various conditions of cerebral damage (hypoxia, hypoxia plus incomplete ischaemia, hypoxia plus complete ischaemia), and after 3, 15 or 30 min of the post-hypoxic recovery and recirculation. The behaviour of fuels (glycogen, glucose), of glycolytic pathway intermediates (glucose-6-phosphate, pyruvate) and end-product (lactate), of the pool of labile phosphates (ATP, ADP, AMP, creatine phosphate) and the energy charge potential of the brain were evaluated in the motor area of the cerebral cortex. The different pharmacological effects of (-)eburnamonine, papaverine and UDP-glucose are discussed with regard to the biochemical changes taking place during the physiopathological conditions tested.
The effect of kavinton on the erythron system and the blood gas composition in rats]	The effects of cavinton on serum erythropoietin levels, erythrocytic 2,3-DFG concentrations, acid-balance and lactic acid concentrations were studied in normal rats for 24 hours. The findings suggest that there might be two possible mechanisms of cavinton's action at the level of erythron: 1) impact on the determinants of hemoglobin functional properties; 2) creation of a potential for enhancing the production of erythropoietin.
Effects of VA-045, a novel apovincaminic acid derivative, on age-related impairment evidence in electroencephalograph, caudate spindle, a passive avoidance task and cerebral blood flow in rats.	1. The ability of VA-045 to improve aged-related impairment on electroencephalograph (EEG), caudate spindle, performance on a passive avoidance task and cerebral blood flow (CBF) were evaluated in rats. 2. The cortical EEG of the aged rats showed a higher incidence of spontaneous spindle burst (SSB) than seen in young rats. VA-045 decreased the incidence of SSB in aged rats. In contrast, vinpocetine increased the incidence of SSB in aged rats. 3. Electrical stimulation of the striatum in aged rats lead to a higher incidence of neocortical high voltage spindle (CS) than seen in young rats. In young rats, VA-045 had no effect on the CS, whereas an age-related increase in CS was blocked by VA-045, but was enhanced by vinpocetine. 4. There were no differences in the cortical EEG arousal response elicited by stimulation of the reticular formation of the brain stem in rats of all ages. VA-045 and vinpocetine had no effect on the cortical EEG arousal response in both young and aged rats. 5. VA-045, but not vinpocetine, attenuated the age-related decreased step through latency (STL) on a passive avoidance task. VA-045 and vinpocetine did not enhance the acquisition of learning behavior in a passive avoidance task in young rats. 6. VA-045 increased the cerebral blood flow (CBF) in both young and aged rats and the potency in aged rats was greater than that in young rats. Vinpocetine had no effect on CBF in either young or aged rats. 7. The pharmacological effects of VA-045 on age-related neuronal dysfunction are discussed.
Hemodynamic profile of a new cerebral vasodilator, vincamine and of one of its derivatives, apovincaminic acid ethylester (RGH-4405).	The hemodynamic modifications induced by vincamine and by one of its derivatives, apovincaminic acid ethylester (RGH-4405), have been studied in anesthetized and conscious dogs. The two alkaloids induced peripheral vasodilatation in all the experimental models, but their action on systemic blood pressure and heart rate was clearly influenced by anesthesia and was different according to the anesthetic used. In the conscious animals an increase of both heart rate and systemic blood pressure was observed, concomitantly with an increase in femoral and vertebral blood flow and a decrease in renal blood flow. In the renal vascular bed a subsequent decrease in resistance was shown, when all the other measured hemodynamic parameters had returned to control values. The greater increase of vertebral blood flow than of femoral blood flow for the same increment of cardiac output was taken as an indirect demonstration of the selectivity of the two drugs for the cerebral circulation.
Drug sensitivity studies on clonal cell lines isolated from heteroploid tumour cell populations. I. Dose response of clones growing in monolayer cultures.	Drug sensitivity of a heteroploid tumour cell line and three clones isolated from it was studied in tissue culture. Cells of the parent line P0, and of clone P1 were fibroblast-like and pseudo- and hypodiploid. Cones P3 and P4 consisted mostly of epithelial and round cells, respectively, and were hypotetraploid. In dose-response experiments, P1 and P4 clones were more sensitive to dianhydrodulcitol than tp0 or P3 clones. Adriamycin was more toxic to P3 than to the other three cell lines. P3 and P4 clones were more sensitive to vincristine than P0 or P1 clones. N-formyl-leurosine, a new derivative of the Vinca alkaloids, was least toxic to P4 cells, and the other three cell lines were equally sensitive. It was concluded that relative sensitivity of the clones depended on the particular drug. Presence of clones of lower sensitivity in heteroploid cell populations may have some bearing on regrowth of tumours after chemotherapy.
Type 4 cyclic adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase as a therapeutic target in chronic lymphocytic leukemia.	Theophylline, a drug known to inhibit several classes of adenosine 3'5' cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) phosphodiesterases (PDEs), induces apoptosis in chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) cells. Because the PDE target for theophylline in CLL remains unknown, we examined the ability of isoform-specific PDE inhibitors to increase cAMP levels and induce apoptosis in primary CLL cells. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction of purified CLL cDNA amplified transcripts for PDE1B, 4A and 4B. The type 4 PDE inhibitor rolipram but not the type 1 inhibitor vinpocetine increased CLL cAMP levels. Rolipram-inhibitable (type 4) but not calcium-calmodulin augmented (type 1) PDE enzyme activity was detected in CLL samples. In samples from 13 of 14 CLL patients, rolipram induced apoptosis in a dose-dependent fashion over a 48-hour period. Interleukin-2 (IL-2)-cultured whole mononuclear cells (WMC) and anti-Ig stimulated CD19(+) B cells were resistant to the induction of apoptosis by rolipram while unstimulated CD19(+) B cells, which had a high basal apoptotic rate, were more sensitive. Rolipram stimulated elevations in cAMP levels in all four of these cell populations, suggesting that they differed in sensitivity to cAMP-induced apoptosis. Consistent with this hypothesis, incubation with the cell permeable cAMP analog dibutyryl-cAMP induced apoptosis in CLL cells and unstimulated B cells but not in IL-2-cultured WMC or anti-Ig stimulated B cells. These data identify PDE4 as a family of enzymes whose inhibition induces apoptosis in CLL cells.
The effect of kavinton and korglycon on the central and cerebral hemodynamics of patients with an ischemic stroke in stenoses and occlusions of the major cerebral arteries]	Of the 40 patients, stenoses of major brain arteries were identified in 34, occlusions in 6, affection of two arteries in eleven patients, that of three arteries in 3 patients. The following disturbances in central hemodynamics were detected: arterial pressure getting higher, this referring also to the peripheral vascular resistance, hematocrit value, with the bloodflow in the arm-ear portion slowing down, hemodynamics being predominantly of hyperkinetic type. Treatment with cavinton, cavinton plus corglucone resulted in improvement of bloodflow in the affected major brain arteries at the expense of a compensating redistribution of bloodflow from intact collectors to the stenosed arteries basin. Changes in central hemodynamics were manifested by increase in the number of cases presenting with eukinetic-type circulation at the expense of decrease in those of hyperkinetic type. Under hypokinetic type hemodynamics, it is advisable that cavinton be prescribed in combination with cardiac glycosides.
Cyclic GMP mimicks potentiation effect of the nootropic agent vinpocetine on the high threshold A-current in the mollusk neurons]	High-threshold transient K+ current (IAht) was recorded using a two-microelectrode voltage clamp technique in isolated neurons of the land snail. Effect of the nootropic drug vinpocetine on this current was studied and compared with cyclic nucleotides. The drug either enhanced or left unaltered the IAht, and dibutyryl cyclic GMP (dcGMP) imitated the effect. These two effects were not additive. Dibutyryl cyclic AMP did not imitate, the vinpocetine effect and decreased the amplitude of the IAht. The findings suggest that the cGMP mediated the vinpocetine effect on the Iaht.
