Design of a pH-sensitive polymeric carrier for drug release and its application in cancer therapy.	In this study, to optimize the polymeric drug delivery system for cancer chemotherapy, we developed a new pH-sensitive polymeric carrier, poly(vinylpyrrolidone-co-dimethylmaleic anhydride) [PVD], that could gradually release native form of drugs with full activity, from the conjugates in response to changes in pH. We examined the usefulness of PVD as a polymeric drug carrier.
Effects of ethylcellulose and 2-octyldodecanol additives on skin permeation and irritation with ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer matrix patches containing formoterol fumarate.	Skin permeation of formoterol fumarate (FF) and irritation with ethylene-vinyl acetate (EVA) copolymer matrix patches was investigated using rat and human skin in vitro and different species of experimental animal, respectively. Skin permeation of FF increased remarkably without addition of ethylcellulose (EC) and was remarkably enhanced by incorporation of 2-octyldodecanol (OD) instead of hydrogenated rosin glycerol ester (Ester Gum H). Effects on skin permeation of FF with EVA matrix patches were similar in rat and human skin, but rat skin was 1000 times more permeable than human skin after 24 h. The primary irritation indices for matrix patches without EC and with EC (OD-0), EC and 0.5 mg OD per square centimeter (OD-0.5), and EC and 1.0 mg OD per square centimeter (OD-1) were 1.46, 1.13,1.29 and 1.38. The results suggested that the irritation induced by these patches was rather mild, but significantly greater than the 0.21 observed with the control. No significant effects were noted for either EC or OD alone. Skin irritation intensity with EVA matrix patches was observed to be in the order of rabbits, guinea pigs, rats and miniature swine.
Deoxyhexanucleotide containing a vinyl chloride induced DNA lesion, 1,N6-ethenoadenine: synthesis, physical characterization, and incorporation into a duplex bacteriophage M13 genome as part of an amber codon.	Organic synthesis and recombinant DNA techniques have been used to situate a single 1,N6-ethenoadenine (epsilon Ade) DNA adduct at an amber codon in the genome of an M13mp19 phage derivative. The deoxyhexanucleotide d[GCT(epsilon A)GC] was chemically synthesized by the phosphotriester method. Mild nonaqueous conditions were employed for deprotection because of the unstable nature of the epsilon Ade adduct in aqueous basic milieu. Physical studies involving fluorescence, circular dichroism, and 1H NMR indicated epsilon Ade to be very efficiently stacked in the hexamer, especially with the 5'-thymine. Melting profile and circular dichroism studies provided evidence of the loss of base-pairing capabilities attendant with formation of the etheno ring. The modified hexanucleotide was incorporated into a six-base gap formed in the genome of an M13mp19 insertion mutant; the latter was constructed by blunt-end ligation of d(GCTAGC) in the center of the unique SmaI site of M13mp19. Phage of the insertion mutant, M13mp19-NheI, produced light blue plaques on SupE strains because of the introduced amber codon. Formation of a hybrid between the single-strand DNA (plus strand) of M13mp19-NheI with SmaI-linearized M13mp19 replicative form produced a heteroduplex with a six-base gap in the minus strand. The modified hexamer [5'-32P]d-[GCT(epsilon A)GC], after 5'-phosphorylation, was ligated into this gap by using bacteriophage T4 DNA ligase to generate a singly adducted genome with epsilon Ade at minus strand position 6274. Introduction of the radiolabel provided a useful marker for characterization of the singly adducted genome, and indeed the label appeared in the anticipated fragments when digested by several restriction endonucleases. Evidence that ligation occurred on both 5' and 3' sides of the oligonucleotide also was obtained. The adduct was introduced into a unique NheI site, and it was observed that this restriction endonuclease was able to cleave the adducted genome, albeit at a lower rate compared to unmodified DNA. The M13mp19-NheI genome containing epsilon Ade will be used as a probe for studying mutagenesis and repair of this DNA adduct in Escherichia coli.
Cytogenetic investigations on lymphocytes from workers exposed to vinyl chloride.	Eleven male workers from the polymerization department of a vinyl chloride factory, seven people employed in the laboratory of another vinyl chloride plant, and ten controls from outside the factory environment were examined for the presence of chromosome aberrations in blood lymphocytes. Chromosome anomalies such as fragments, rings, translocations, and dicentrics were observed in most of the workers from the polymerization department. However, the medical history of these workers shows that they received frequent radiographs of the hands, feet, vertebral column, and digestive tract. It is therefore impossible to determine whether these chromosome anomalies result from vinyl chloride exposure.
