Sequences and structural organization of phospholipase A2 genes from Vipera aspis aspis, V. aspis zinnikeri and Vipera berus berus venom. Identification of the origin of a new viper population based on ammodytin I1 heterogeneity.	We used a PCR-based method to determine the genomic DNA sequences encoding phospholipases A2 (PLA2s) from the venoms of Vipera aspis aspis (V. a. aspis), Vipera aspis zinnikeri (V. a. zinnikeri), Vipera berus berus (V. b. berus) and a neurotoxic V. a. aspis snake (neurotoxic V. a. aspis) from a population responsible for unusual neurotoxic envenomations in south-east France. We sequenced five groups of genes, each corresponding to a different PLA2. The genes encoding the A and B chains of vaspin from the neurotoxic V. a. aspis, PLA2-I from V. a. zinnikeri, and the anticoagulant PLA2 from V. b. berus are described here. Single nucleotide differences leading to amino-acid substitutions were observed both between genes encoding the same PLA2 and between genes encoding different PLA2s. These differences were clustered in exons 3 and 5, potentially altering the biological activities of PLA2. The distribution and characteristics of the PLA2 genes differed according to the species or subspecies. We characterized for the first time genes encoding neurotoxins from the V. a. aspis and V. b. berus snakes of central France. Genes encoding ammodytins I1 and I2, described previously in Vipera ammodytes ammodytes (V. am. ammodytes), were also present in V. a. aspis and V. b. berus. Three different ammodytin I1 gene sequences were characterized: one from V. b. berus, the second from V. a. aspis, V. a. zinnikeri and the neurotoxic V. a. aspis, and the third from the neurotoxic V. a. aspis. This third sequence was identical with the reported sequence of the V. am. ammodytes ammodytin I1 gene. Genes encoding monomeric neurotoxins of V. am. ammodytes venom, ammodytoxins A, B and C, and the Bov-B LINE retroposon, a phylogenetic marker found in V. am. ammodytes genome, were identified in the genome of the neurotoxic V. a. aspis. These results suggest that the population of neurotoxic V. a. aspis snakes from south-east France may have resulted from interbreeding between V. a. aspis and V. am. ammodytes.
Adaptive evolution in the snake venom Kunitz/BPTI protein family.	Snake venoms are rich sources of serine proteinase inhibitors that are members of the Kunitz/BPTI (bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor) family. However, only a few of their gene sequences have been determined from snakes. We therefore cloned the cDNAs for the trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitors from a Vipera ammodytes venom gland cDNA library. Phylogenetic analysis of these and other snake Kunitz/BPTI homologs shows the presence of three clusters, where sequences cluster by functional role. Analysis of the nucleotide sequences from the snake Kunitz/BPTI family shows that positive Darwinian selection was operating on the highly conserved BPTI fold, indicating that this family evolved by gene duplication and rapid diversification.
Molecular phylogeny of Vipera Laurenti, 1768 and the related genera Macrovipera (Reuss, 1927) and Daboia (Gray, 1842), with comments about neurotoxic Vipera aspis aspis populations.	We used mtDNA sequences (cytochrome b and NADH dehydrogenase subunit 2) to reconstruct molecular phylogenies of Vipera sensu lato, Vipera sensu stricto, and Vipera aspis. Three major clades were identified within the Vipera s.l. group: (1) the European vipers, (2) the oriental vipers, consisting of Montivipera (Vipera 2) plus Macrovipera lebetina, and (3) a group of Asian and North African vipers consisting of Daboia russelii, V. palaestinae, and Macrovipera mauritanica. We also distinguished three clades within the monophyletic European Vipera group: V. ammodytes, V. aspis, and V. latastei, and Pelias with monophyly of Vipera 1 uncertain. Within V. aspis, the specimens collected in France formed the sister group of an Italian clade. The "neurotoxic" French population of V. aspis, which has a specific venom profile, separated from other French V. aspis early in the history of this group.
Some aspects of the venom proteome of the Colubridae snake Philodryas olfersii revealed from a Duvernoy's (venom) gland transcriptome.	We investigated the putative toxins of Philodryas olfersii (Colubridae), a representative of a family of snakes neglected in venom studies despite their growing medical importance. Transcriptomic data of the venom gland complemented by proteomic analysis of the gland secretion revealed the presence of major toxin classes from the Viperidae family, including serine proteases, metalloproteases, C-type lectins, Crisps, and a C-type natriuretic peptide (CNP). Interestingly, the phylogenetic analysis of the CNP precursor showed it as a linker between two related precursors found in Viperidae and Elapidae snakes. We suggest that these precursors constitute a monophyletic group derived from the vertebrate CNPs.
Evolution of snake venom disintegrins by positive Darwinian selection.	PII-disintegrins, cysteine-rich polypeptides broadly distributed in the venoms of geographically diverse species of vipers and rattlesnakes, antagonize the adhesive functions of beta(1) and beta(3) integrin receptors. PII-disintegrins evolved in Viperidae by neofunctionalization of disintegrin-like domains of duplicated PIII-snake venom hemorrhagic metalloproteinase (SVMP) genes recruited into the venom proteome before the radiation of the advanced snakes. Minimization of the gene (loss of introns and coding regions) and the protein structures (successive loss of disulfide bonds) underpins the postduplication divergence of disintegrins. However, little is known about the underlying genetic mechanisms that have generated the structural and functional diversity among disintegrins. Phylogenetic inference and maximum likelihood-based codon substitution approaches were used to analyze the evolution of the disintegrin family. The topology of the phylogenetic tree does not parallel that of the species tree. This incongruence is consistent with that expected for a multigene family undergoing a birth-and-death process in which the appearance and disappearance of loci are being driven by selection. Cysteine and buried residues appear to be under strong purifying selection due to their role in maintaining the active conformation of disintegrins. Divergence of disintegrins is strongly influenced by positive Darwinian selection causing accelerated rate of substitution in a substantial proportion of surface-exposed disintegrin residues. Global and lineage-specific sites evolving under diversifying selection were identified. Several sites are located within the integrin-binding loop and the C-terminal tail, two regions that form a conformational functional epitope. Arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) was inferred to represent the ancestral integrin-recognition motif, which emerged from the subgroup of PIII-SVMPs bearing the RDECD sequence. The most parsimonious nucleotide substitution model required for the emergence of all known disintegrin's integrin inhibitory motifs from an ancestral RGD sequence involves a minimum of three mutations. The adaptive advantage of the emergence of motifs targeting beta(1) integrins and the role of positively selected sites located within nonfunctional disintegrin regions appear to be difficult to rationalize in the context of a predator-prey arms race. Perhaps, this represents a consequence of the neofunctionalization potential of the disintegrin domain, a feature that may underlie its recruitment into the venom proteome followed by its successful transformation into a toxin.
