Long-term persistence of immunoglobulin A (IgA) and IgM antibodies against human cytomegalovirus in solid-organ transplant recipients.	The retrospective analysis of 494 solid-organ transplant recipients revealed that during the follow-up period (mean duration, 3.2 years) 184 (88%) of 209 anti-human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) immunoglobulin A (IgA)-positive patients remained IgA positive, as did 128 (74.85%) of 171 anti-HCMV IgM-positive patients. We conclude that anti-HCMV IgA and IgM testing for management of clinically relevant HCMV infections in solid-organ transplant recipients is dispensable.
Qualitative plasma PCR assay (AMPLICOR CMV test) versus pp65 antigenemia assay for monitoring cytomegalovirus viremia and guiding preemptive ganciclovir therapy in allogeneic stem cell transplantation.	The performances of a commercially available qualitative plasma PCR assay (AMPLICOR CMV test; Roche Diagnostics) and the pp65 antigenemia assay (AG) were evaluated for the monitoring of cytomegalovirus (CMV) viremia in 43 allogeneic stem cell transplant recipients. In addition, the suitabilities of both assays for triggering the initiation of preemptive ganciclovir therapy were assessed. A total of 37 CMV viremic episodes were detected in 28 patients. Positivity of plasma PCR testing in one or more consecutive specimens was the only marker of CMV viremia in 18 of the 37 episodes (PCR positive and AG negative, n = 50 specimens). Five episodes were diagnosed on the basis of a single positive AG result (AG positive and PCR negative, n = 5 specimens); both assays were eventually positive (PCR positive and AG positive, n = 27 specimens) for 14 viremic episodes; for these episodes, conversion of the PCR assay result to a positive result occurred an average of 1 week before conversion of the AG result. Overall, the concordance between the two methods was 90%, and the sensitivities of the plasma PCR assay and AG for the detection of CMV viremic episodes were 86.5 and 51.3%, respectively. Two patients who tested positive by both assays simultaneously progressed to CMV end-stage organ disease, despite the initiation of preemptive ganciclovir therapy. Conversion of the AG result to a negative result upon administration of preemptive ganciclovir therapy occurred a median of 7.5 days earlier than conversion of the plasma PCR assay result. Nineteen of the 28 patients with CMV viremia received AG-guided preemptive ganciclovir therapy; had the positivity of the plasma PCR assay triggered the initiation of preemptive therapy, 9 additional patients would have been unnecessarily treated since none of them developed CMV end-stage organ disease. Although the AMPLICOR CMV assay is more sensitive than AG, the latter appears to be more suitable both for guiding the initiation of preemptive therapy and for monitoring a patient's response to antiviral therapy.
Comparison of LightCycler-based PCR, COBAS amplicor CMV monitor, and pp65 antigenemia assays for quantitative measurement of cytomegalovirus viral load in peripheral blood specimens from patients after solid organ transplantation.	In order to evaluate the LightCycler-based PCR (LC-PCR) as a diagnostic assay technique, a classical pp65 antigenemia assay and the commercially available COBAS Amplicor CMV Monitor (CACM) assay were compared to the LC-PCR assay for the detection and quantitation of cytomegalovirus (CMV) load in 404 parallel specimens of peripheral blood from 66 patients after solid organ transplantation. A good correlation existed among these three assays (r congruent with 0.6, P < 0.0001). The LC-PCR assay was the most sensitive (54% of specimens positive) compared to the CACM (48.6%) and the pp65 antigenemia (26%) assays. The LC-PCR assay detected all samples found positive by using both the CMV pp65 antigenemia assay and the CACM assay. The LC-PCR also had the widest dynamic range (from 250 to 10(7) DNA copies/ml of plasma). No cross-reactions were found among CMV and Epstein-Barr virus, varicella-zoster virus, or herpes simplex virus in the LC-PCR by using amplification with specifically designed primer pairs. Precision, expressed as the coefficient of variation, was <3% with standard DNA from cell cultures and between 6.55 and 14.1% with clinical specimens in repeat LC-PCR runs. One run of the LC-PCR took half of the time required for the semiautomated CACM procedure. Because of its sensitivity, specificity, cost-effectiveness, and simplicity, the LC-PCR assay could replace the pp65 antigenemia and the CACM assays as the preferred technique for the surveillance, diagnosis, and monitoring of response of CMV diseases in high-risk populations.
Comparison of intravenous ganciclovir and cytomegalovirus hyperimmune globulin pre-emptive treatment in cytomegalovirus-positive heart transplant recipients.	We compared the use of intravenous ganciclovir and cytomegalovirus hyperimmune globulin (CMVIG) as a pre-emptive treatment for cytomegalovirus (CMV)-positive heart transplant recipients.
Validation of clinical application of cytomegalovirus plasma DNA load measurement and definition of treatment criteria by analysis of correlation to antigen detection.	Successful preemptive cytomegalovirus (CMV) therapy in transplant patients depends on the availability of sensitive, specific, and timely diagnostic tests for CMV infections. The pp65 antigenemia assay has been used for this purpose with considerable success. Quantification of CMV DNA is currently regarded to be an alternative diagnostic approach. The precise relationship between these two methods has still to be defined, but is essential to compare diagnostic results. This study compared the results of both assays with a large series of transplant recipients in different categories. An internally controlled quantitative real-time CMV DNA PCR was used to test 409 plasma samples from solid organ transplant (SOT) and stem cell transplant (SCT) patients. Levels of CMV DNA in plasma correlated well with classified outcomes of the pp65 antigenemia test. Despite this correlation, the quantitative CMV PCR values in a class of antigen test results were within a wide range, and the definition of an optimal cutoff value for initiating treatment required further analysis by a receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis. This is essential for reactivating infections in particular. For the SCT patients the optimal cutoff value of CMV DNA load defining relevant viral reactivation (in this assay, 10,000 copies/ml) was slightly higher than that for the SOT patients (6,300 copies/ml). Based on a comparison with the established pp65 antigenemia assay, quantification of CMV DNA in plasma appeared to be capable of guiding the clinical management of transplant recipients. This approach may have important advantages, which include a superior reproducibility and sensitivity, allowing the inclusion of kinetic criteria in clinical guidelines.
Detection of ganciclovir resistance after valacyclovir-prophylaxis in renal transplant recipients with active cytomegalovirus infection.	Whether valaciclovir (VCV) prophylaxis could be responsible for ganciclovir (GCV)-resistance of Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) in transplantation has never been documented. A multicentric retrospective pilot study was undertaken to detect GCV-resistance through mutations within the UL97 gene in renal transplant recipients who experienced active HCMV infection and received valacyclovir prophylaxis. Twenty-three patients who experienced HCMV antigenaemia or DNAemia during or at the end of prophylaxis were included. UL97 genotyping was carried out on peripheral blood samples, using a nested in-house PCR, which amplified the full-length UL97 gene. One patient has a resistance-related mutation (M460I); the major risk factor for emergence of resistance in this patient was the presence of early and persistent antigenaemia. GCV-resistance during VCV-prophylaxis was rare after renal transplantation. However, special attention must be paid to patients developing early active HCMV infection under prophylaxis.
Comparison of cytomegalovirus pp-65 antigenemia assay and plasma DNA correlation with the clinical outcome in transplant recipients.	The relationship between quantitative antigenemia and plasma DNAemia was studied for monitoring cytomegalovirus (CMV) viremia in CMV infection (CMVI) or disease (CMVD), in 20 transplant recipients (13 CMD, seven CMVI). A total of 142 samples of blood were assayed for CMV-DNA and pp-65 antigenemia (CMV-Ag). A quantitative correlation between both markers was found (P < 0.0001). First CMV antigenemia as well as first plasma DNA viral load was similar in CMVI and CMVD (29 vs. 24 CMV-Ag+ cells/10(5) PMN; and 7445 vs. 12407 CMV-DNA copies/ml). The maximum antigenemia was higher in CMVD than in CMVI (146 +/- 87 vs. 61 +/- 54 +cells/10(5) PMN, P < 0.05), but the highest CMV plasma viral load was similar in both groups (62592 +/- 33000 vs. 42055 +/- 38600 copies/ml). In nine patients, maximum antigenemia coincided with highest plasma DNA viral load, but in 10 highest DNAemia occurred 6 days later. On the contrary, antigenemia declined faster than CMV-DNAnemia, after treatment.
Enumerating antigen-specific T-cell responses in peripheral blood: a comparison of peptide MHC Tetramer, ELISpot, and intracellular cytokine analysis.	Detection of the circulating antigen-specific T-cell response to immunization is an important biologic end point in clinical trials of cancer vaccines. Typically employed assays are peptide MHC tetramer, ELISpot, and intracellular cytokine analysis. Although there is no agreement on the definition of a positive response in these assays, many groups have chosen a number of T cells greater than 2 standard deviations above the mean of the negative controls. The authors wished to determine how well this cutoff performed for each of these assays in detecting positive and negative T-cell responses to a model antigen, the immunodominant HLA-A*0201-restricted epitope of cytomegalovirus (CMV) pp65. For each assay, the mean + 2 standard deviations of the response for CMV seronegatives was the point that best separated the two groups. Using this value, each assay had a sensitivity of 87.5% and specificity of 95% to 100% and exhibited a high degree of concordance (kappa 0.76-0.9) with the other two. The authors conclude that currently available immunologic assays perform well in detecting biologically relevant levels of antigen-specific T cells. These assays will better define the quantity and quality of protective immune responses to viral disease and offer insight into the requirements for protective anti-cancer immunity.
Surveillance of cytomegalovirus infection in haematopoietic stem cell transplantation patients.	The aim of this study was to describe our experience in the control of active CMV infection following HSCT using two strategies of CMV infection treatment: ganciclovir universal prophylaxis at low doses and pre-emptive therapy with ganciclovir.
Cytomegalovirus prophylaxis with valganciclovir in African-American renal allograft recipients based on donor/recipient serostatus.	There is a paucity of data examining the efficacy of valganciclovir (VGC) for cytomegalovirus (CMV) prophylaxis in kidney transplant patients, particularly with regard to utilization of a risk-stratified dosing regimen. Eighty adult African-American (AA) renal allograft recipients transplanted from November 3, 2001 to May 28, 2003 and followed for 22 +/- 8 months received VGC once daily for 90 d post-transplant dosed according to donor/recipient (D/R) serostatus: high risk (D+/R-) received 900 mg (n = 12); moderate risk (D+/R+, D-/R+) received 450 mg (n = 60); and low risk (D-/R-) received no prophylaxis (n = 8). Thymoglobulin or basiliximab was used for induction, and mycophenolate mofetil, prednisone, and either tacrolimus or sirolimus for maintenance immunosuppression. Only six patients (7.5%) developed symptomatic CMV infection diagnosed by pp65 antigenemia, three in the high-risk (25%) and three in the moderate-risk (5%) group (p = 0.02). All patients were on tacrolimus for at least 3 months prior to diagnosis. There were no cases of tissue-invasive disease, resistance to treatment, or recurrence. D+/R- serostatus was the only significant independent predictor for CMV infection using multivariate analysis (odds ratio 10.5; p = 0.04). Thymoglobulin induction was not associated with CMV infection. None of 43 patients who were exposed to sirolimus for >30 d developed CMV infection, vs. six of 37 who were not (p = 0.006). We conclude that VGC dosed according to D/R serostatus provides safe and effective CMV prophylaxis in AA renal allograft recipients.
Use of the cytomegalovirus pp65 antigenemia assay for preemptive therapy in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation: a real-world review.	Despite advances in surveillance strategies and antivirals, cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection continues to pose problems to patients receiving hematopoietic stem cell transplants (HSCTs). The bone marrow transplant (BMT) unit at the Singapore General Hospital embraced the preemptive strategy in late 2003. Although several studies have demonstrated its usefulness, we conducted this review to document CMV-related events at our institution. Forty-six patients underwent CMV surveillance using the CMV pp65 antigenemia (CMV Ag) assay from January 2004 to December 2005. Twenty-seven patients had CMV infection, and 19 remained antigenemia-negative. No differences were found between the 2 groups for the following potential risk factors for CMV infection: age, total number of co-morbidities, duration of neutropenia after conditioning, baseline creatinine, type of conditioning regimen (conventional vs. reduced intensity), type of transplant (matched sibling vs. others), recipient CMV status, donor CMV status, and use of total body irradiation. Two patients received alemtuzumab; both developed CMV Ag. Twelve episodes of CMV infection occurred after the 100th post-HSCT day. Two patients developed CMV disease. One of them could be considered a failure of the preemptive strategy, as she had CMV gastritis diagnosed on the same day that she became pp65-positive. The other developed CMV disease despite prompt institution of ganciclovir, although she had multiple post-HSCT complications requiring enhanced immunosuppression, as well as relapsed disease. One-year disease-free survival was 55.5% in those with CMV infection and 52.3% in those without infection. Survival was not affected by CMV infection.
Quantification of DNA in plasma by an automated real-time PCR assay (cytomegalovirus PCR kit) for surveillance of active cytomegalovirus infection and guidance of preemptive therapy for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients.	The performance of a plasma real-time PCR (cytomegalovirus [CMV] PCR kit; Abbott Diagnostics) was compared with that of the antigenemia assay for the surveillance of active CMV infection in 42 allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (Allo-SCT) recipients. A total of 1,156 samples were analyzed by the two assays. Concordance between the two assays was 82.2%. Plasma DNA levels correlated with the number of pp65-positive cells, particularly prior to the initiation of preemptive therapy. Fifty-seven episodes of active CMV infection were detected in 37 patients: 18 were defined solely by the PCR assay and four were defined on the basis of the antigenemia assay. Either a cutoff of 288 CMV DNA copies/ml or a 2.42-log(10) increase of DNAemia levels between two consecutive PCR positive samples was an optimal value to discriminate between patients requiring preemptive therapy and those not requiring therapy on the basis of the antigenemia results. The real-time PCR assay allowed an earlier diagnosis of active CMV infection and was a more reliable marker of successful clearance of CMV from the blood. Analysis of the kinetics of DNAemia levels at a median of 7 days posttreatment allowed the prediction of the response to CMV therapy. Two patients developed CMV colitis. The PCR assay tested positive both before the onset of symptoms and during the disease period. The plasma real-time PCR from Abbott is more suitable than the antigenemia assay for monitoring active CMV infection in Allo-SCT recipients and may be used for guiding preemptive therapy in this clinical setting.
Algorithm based on CMV kinetics DNA viral load for preemptive therapy initiation after hematopoietic cell transplantation.	Preemptive therapy in hematopoietic cell transplantation is initiated by a diagnostic technique at first detection of cytomegalovirus (CMV). The aim of this study was to use the viral dynamics of CMV DNA viral to start preemptive therapy, and to prospectively compare the CMV viral load kinetics to pp65 antigenemia. Two hundred sixty-three blood samples were collected prospectively from 93 patients. All clinical decisions regarding use of preemptive therapy were based on CMV antigenemia. Based on the positivity of the antigen assay and clinical CMV outcome in allotransplant patients, an optimal threshold of 3.05 log 10 (1,130 copies/ml) was found to discriminate patients who required preemptive therapy and those who did not (sensitivity, 71%; specificity, 65%). A DNAemia level increase of 2.24 log 10 (174 copies/ml) per day was the optimal threshold to discriminate between patients who required preemptive therapy and those who did not (sensitivity, 93%; specificity, 43%). Sensitivity of PCR assay was 92.4% compared with 39% for the antigen assay (P < 0.001). A standardized real-time PCR assay is more appropriate than the antigen assay for detecting CMV. It allowed earlier diagnosis of active CMV infection and monitoring of the response to anti-CMV treatment.
Large diversity of routine methods used for monitoring human cytomegalovirus infections in France]	Monitoring cytomegalovirus circulating viral load is an important parameter of the follow-up in immunocompromised patients. It can be measured either by DNAemia or by pp65 antigenemia. The French national reference center for cytomegaloviruses organized an investigation of practice in 37 teacher hospital virology laboratories to assess the situation in France in 2010.
Cytomegalovirus load in whole blood is more reliable for predicting and assessing CMV disease than pp65 antigenaemia.	CMV is a common cause of disease in immunocompromised patients. Because sampling of the diseased organ can be invasive, markers of systemic CMV reactivation such as pp65 and CMV viral load are commonly used to monitor patients at risk of CMV disease. In this retrospective analysis, the performance of these markers was compared in solid organ transplant recipients, patients with haematological malignancies and HIV infection. Both assays were sensitive markers of reactivation, however, the predictive value for disease of a positive result for both was low. Compared to viral load, the pp65 assay was a less sensitive marker of CMV reactivation. It was only positive when the viral load was greater than 3 log (10) copies/ml whole blood and was negative in 10 instances when the viral load was between 3 and 5 logs. In concordantly positive samples, the number of pp65 positive cells varied widely relative to the viral load and the number of positive cells counted could not be used to predict disease likelihood with any certainty. To conclude, CMV viral load provides a more consistent guide to determine likelihood of disease than pp65 count and is a more sensitive marker of CMV reactivation. 
Cytomegalovirus reactivation and preemptive therapy after liver transplant.	Cytomegalovirus is the most common viral infection after orthotopic liver transplant. The purpose of the present study was to determine the incidence of cytomegalovirus reactivation in Iranian liver transplant recipients at our center and to evaluate outcomes with preemptive therapy with ganciclovir for pp65 antigenemia.
CMV-antigenemia after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation: correlation of CMV-antigen positive cell numbers with transplant-related mortality.	One hundred and thirty-four consecutive patients undergoing HLA-identical BMT were prospectively followed on a weekly basis for the development of CMV antigenemia (CMVAg-emia). End-points of the study were (1) incidence, (2) risk factors, and (3) predictive effect on transplant-related mortality (TRM). Fifty-six patients developed CMVAg-emia between day 8-366 (median 40) with an overall actuarial risk of 43%. The median number of positive cells a diagnosis was 4 (range 1-48) the median maximum number was 6.5 (range 1-435). Positive cells are expressed as number/2.5 x 10(5) cells. In multivariate analysis, T cell depletion (TCD) (RR 2.9, P = 0.0009) and acute graft-versus-host disease (RR 2.1, P = 0.01) were the two risk factors predictive for CMVAg-emia. The risk of developing CMV-IP was significantly higher in patients with, as compared to patients without, CMVAg-emia (P = 0.0005) and occurred mostly in patients who received TCD marrow (P = 0.0009) despite treatment with gancyclovir or foscarnet at the time of CMVAg-emia. TRM was 24% in patients not developing CMVAg-emia; it was 21 and 47% in patients with "4" positive cells at diagnosis of CMV (P = 0.008), and 12 vs 54% for patients with "6" positive cells during infection (P = 0.0003). Both were predictive of TRM in multivariate analysis (P = 0.04 and P = 0.002). In conclusion, the risk of developing CMVAg-emia post-allo BMT is influenced by the marrow T cell content and by the occurrence of acute GVHD. High numbers of CMV antigen positive cells are associated with considerable transplant-related mortality, and may therefore identify patients eligible for early aggressive therapy.
Detection of cytomegalovirus mRNA and DNA encoding the immediate early gene in peripheral blood leukocytes from immunocompromised patients.	Detection of cytomegalovirus (CMV) DNA in peripheral blood leukocytes has been shown to be a sensitive marker of CMV infection. However, the specificity with regard to its clinical significance is less clear, since infections considered to be latent may be detected. In this report, the presence of CMV immediate early antigen (IEA) DNA and mRNA in peripheral blood leukocytes detected by PCR was investigated and related to the appearance of CMV pp65 antigen, CMV serology, and clinical status. Thirty-seven consecutive samples were submitted to the laboratory from 36 immunocompromised patients, on a routine basis for analysis because of a potential risk of CMV infection. To facilitate differentiation between DNA and mRNA, primers were chosen in exons 2 and 3 of the immediate early gene of CMV. Keratin type I mRNA and the ssu rRNA gene served as internal controls. Thirty specimens were CMV antibody positive, of which 11 were also CMV IEA DNA positive. Two of seven seronegative samples were CMV IEA DNA positive. No relation was found between serology and the presence of CMV IEA DNA as determined in 37 samples. Five of 32 samples that could be analyzed were positive for CMV IEA mRNA, of which four were also positive in the pp65 antigen detection technique. A clear relation was found between the presence of CMV IEA mRNA and CMV pp65 antigen in leukocytes and with the clinical findings as well (P < 0.01). It is concluded that detection of CMV mRNA may have a role in diagnosis of an active clinically relevant CMV infection.
Comparison between 2 monoclonal antibodies (clones 95/12 and 1C3 + AYm-1) for the detection of pp65 antigenemia associated with human cytomegalovirus]	A prospective parallel and blind comparative study was carried out to evaluate the diagnostic efficacy of two available anti-pp65 monoclonal antibodies (clone 95/12 and the pool 1C3 + AYM-1) for the cytomegalovirus (CMV) antigenemia assay.
Cytomegalovirus pp65 antigenaemia as an indicator of end-organ disease in AIDS.	We aim to assess the usefulness of the cytomegalovirus (CMV) pp65 antigenaemia test, also called the CMV direct antigen test (DAT), in the management of patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; we studied all patients who had pp65 assays between 8 September 1995 and 30 August 1996. Twenty-three patients had 31 tests. The mean CD4 cell count was 20/mm3. The tests were negative in 16 patients, of whom 12 have not developed CMV end-organ disease after a mean follow up of 114 days (range 14-269 days), whilst the remaining 4 patients had previously treated CMV disease. Eleven patients had positive tests: 4 had active CMV disease, 2 subsequently developed CMV retinitis, 2 died within a fortnight of multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB), one was lost to follow up and 2 have remained disease-free. This test has a positive predictive value of 43% and a negative predictive value of 94%, Fisher's exact test P=0.03. The pp65 antigenaemia assay can be performed in a standard virology laboratory avoiding the problems associated with polymerase chain reaction (PCR), a result is available within 5 h, and it is semi-quantifiable. However, a large prospective study is required to determine the comparative value and roles of the pp65 antigenaemia assay and DNA PCR in the management of CMV disease, especially with regard to the use of primary prophylaxis and pre-emptive therapy.
