Correlation of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay titers with protection against infectious bursal disease virus.	We examined the utility of baculovirus-expressed infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) proteins to act as antigens in the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). The three IBDV protein antigens tested included 1) a truncated VP2, 2) whole VP2, and 3) the polyprotein products VP2, VP3, and VP4. Serum samples from 2-wk-old commercially reared broilers were collected and tested in the three ELISAs. Serum samples were obtained from 34 different commercial broiler flocks. An average of 14 serum samples (range = 11-17) were tested for each flock. The ELISA results were compared with the percentage of protection of these birds following challenge with IBDV. Fifty 2-wk-old chicks from each of the 34 broiler flocks were challenged with STC classic virus or Del-E variant virus. At 7 days postchallenge, the bursa from each of the birds was removed and bursa/body weights were recorded. Percentage of protection was determined by the number of birds in each challenge group that had normal relative bursal weights compared with unchallenged controls. No evidence was found of a relationship between ELISA data generated with the polyprotein antigen (VP2, VP3, VP4) and percentage of protection observed in the STC and Del-E challenged birds. A significant relationship was found between ELISA data and percentage of protection to STC and Del-E when the truncated VP2 or whole VP2 antigens were used in the ELISA. The results of this study indicate that predicting the percentage of protection against classic or variant IBDV strains in broilers from vaccinated breeder flocks can be improved when VP2 is used as the only antigen in the ELISA.
Detection of acute hepatitis C virus infection by ELISA using a synthetic peptide comprising a structural epitope.	An enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was developed by using a synthetic polypeptide (SP) whose sequence was derived from the structural region of hepatitis C virus (HCV). Results of several coded panels of sera obtained from volunteer blood donors and patients with apparent non-A, non-B hepatitis and/or hepatitis B virus used in this ELISA were compared with those of a commercially available first-generation C-100 ELISA (using nonstructural HCV antigens), an experimental second-generation C-200/C-22 ELISA (using both structural and nonstructural HCV antigens), and recombinant immunoblot assays RIBA-I and RIBA-II. In the majority of cases, the results obtained with the HCV-SP ELISA correlated well with those obtained by RIBA-II and C-200/C-22 ELISA. In contrast, many samples that were repeatedly reactive in the C-100 ELISA results were nonreactive with RIBA and HCV-SP ELISA. In addition, HCV-SP detected HCV-specific antibody that appeared within a month of infection and coincided with the earliest increase in alanine aminotransferase. In summary, we have developed an ELISA based on a structural HCV synthetic polypeptide, HCV-SP, that has high specificity and sensitivity and is capable of detecting specific antibodies in the acute phase of HCV infection.
Detection of Infectious bursal disease virus by ELISA using an antipeptide antibody raised against VP3 region.	Antigenic determinant analysis was carried out on VP3, one of major immunogenic proteins of Infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) using computer algorithms. Altogether 17 peptides were synthesized for predicted putative regions and were tested for their reactivity with IBDV-positive polyclonal sera as well as with antisera to other common avian viruses to confirm specificity and to rule out cross reactivity. Of 17 peptides tested, three were selected and synthesized in multiple antigenic peptide (MAP) format. The immunization of rabbits with the three MAPs resulted in high humoral immune response. The purified antipeptide antibodies were screened against native IBDV antigen and the respective titers were determined. Out of the three antisera to MAPs that raised against the MAP3, spanning the amino acids (aa) 974-995 region on the VP3 protein had a very high titer (2048) and reacted specifically with IBDV. Thus, the antiserum to MAP3 detected native virus in enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), revealing the presence of a potential antigenic determinant on the C-terminus of the protein. This study proved that an antipeptide antibody could be used as a safe and specific tool for the diagnosis of IBD in chickens.
Possible interaction between myxomatosis and calicivirosis related to rabbit haemorrhagic disease affecting the European rabbit.	Serological data on myxoma virus, rabbit haemorrhagic disease (RHD) virus and RHD-like viruses in juvenile rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus) trapped in 1995, 1996 and 1997 in two areas of France were analysed. For each disease, the effects of bodyweight, year, month and seropositivity for the other disease were modelled by using logistic regressions. In one area, a model including RHD seropositivity was selected to explain the myxoma virus seropositivity. Models including myxoma virus seropositivity were selected to explain the RHD seropositivity in both areas, and the odds of a rabbit being seropositive to both viruses were 5.1 and 8.4 times higher than the odds of a rabbit being seronegative to myxoma virus and seropositive to RHD. The year and bodyweight had significant effects for myxomatosis in one area and for RHD in both areas.
Detection of rubella virus-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, and IgA antibodies by immunoblot assays.	Immunoblot (IB) assays were developed for detection of rubella virus (RV)-specific immunoglobulin G (IgG), IgM, and IgA antibodies in human serum following natural infection or immunization. IB assays performed under nonreducing conditions were compared with those performed under reducing conditions and with immunoprecipitation assays. Significant loss of antigenicity (greater than 90%) of RV E1 and E2 proteins was observed when IB assays were performed in the presence of 2-mercaptoethanol as compared with assays under nonreducing conditions. In contrast, the antigenicity of RV capsid protein was not influenced by reducing agents. Sensitivity of IB for RV-specific IgG antibodies was determined to be 0.01 IU/ml under nonreducing conditions. In the determination of RV-specific IgM and IgA antibodies by IB, pretreatment of serum with protein G to remove competing high-affinity RV-specific IgG or rheumatoid factor significantly improved assay sensitivity. IB assays were observed to be superior to immunoprecipitation assays in their ability to better define the specificities of RV-specific antibodies and to detect antibodies of all immunoglobulin classes. However, the conformational sensitivity of RV protein antigenicity should be an important consideration in the interpretation of RV-specific antibodies by IB assays.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 tegument proteins VP1/2 and UL37 are associated with intranuclear capsids.	The assembly of the tegument of herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) is a complex process that involves a number of events at various sites within virus-infected cells. Our studies focused on determining whether tegument proteins, VP1/2 and UL37, are added to capsids located within the nucleus. Capsids were isolated from the nuclear fraction of HSV-1-infected cells and purified by rate-zonal centrifugation to separate B capsids (containing the scaffold proteins and no viral DNA) and C capsids (containing DNA and no scaffold proteins). Western blot analyses of these capsids indicated that VP1/2 associated primarily with C capsids and UL37 associated with B and C capsids. The results demonstrate that at least two of the tegument proteins of HSV-1 are associated with capsids isolated from the nuclear fraction, and these capsid-tegument protein interactions may represent initial events of the tegumentation process.
Immune responses of pigs to commercialized emulsion FMD vaccines and live virus challenge.	The immune response to structural and non-structural proteins (NSPs) was studied on sequential serum samples in swine from O/Taiwan/97 FMDV challenge studies, outbreaks and after vaccination. The results showed that pigs vaccinated with a commercial vaccine prior to or after infection maintained high neutralizing antibody titers with gradual decline from peak titers over the duration of this study. However, neutralizing antibody titers in non-vaccinated pigs only reached moderate levels 2-4 weeks post infection and remained low thereafter. For the 3B and 3ABC NSP antibody ELISA responses, there were gradually decreasing levels of NSP antibody over time. In multiple vaccinations, all pigs showed significant increases in neutralizing antibodies after booster vaccination. For the 3B NSP antibody ELISA after vaccination, the mean S/P ratios for pigs vaccinated with all three FMD vaccines were all below the 0.23 cut-off value set by the manufacture, but some sera from individual vaccinated pigs gave results above this cut-off after primary or secondary vaccination. However, with the 3ABC NSP antibody ELISA, all sera from vaccinated pigs had negative results for NSP antibody for all time points.
Development and application of an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of bovine viral diarrhea antibody based on Erns glycoprotein expressed in a baculovirus system.	The BVDV envelope glycoprotein E(rns)/gp48 and the C terminal 79 amino acids of the capsid protein coding region were expressed in a baculovirus system and antigenically characterized. Western blot assay was used to detect recombinant E(rns) (r-E(rns)) in infected insect cells using specific monoclonal antibodies. The r-E(rns) was then used in an indirect ELISA to detect BVDV specific antibodies in a panel of 540 well-characterized sera. Results of the r-E(rns) ELISA were compared to those obtained with a commercially available competitive ELISA targeting anti-NS2/3 antibodies. A good correlation was observed between the 2 ELISA (kappa = 0.916, 95% C.I.: 0.876, 0.956). Using the commercial NS2/3 ELISA as the reference test, the relative sensitivity of r-E(rns) ELISA was 97.5% (95% C.I.: 94.3%, 99.1%) and the relative specificity was 93.9% (95% C.I.: 89.4%, 96.9%), while relative specificity was 100% (95% C.I.: 97%, 100%) using true negative sera (derived from a negative herd). All but 1 antigen positive animals (n = 36) tested negative in the r-E(rns) ELISA; among them all 22 confirmed PI animals were negative by r-E(rns) ELISA. The ability of r-E(rns) ELISA to identify cattle immunized with inactivated vaccine was also demonstrated in a small group of cattle, compared to an NS2/3 antibody ELISA. Results suggest that r-E(rns) ELISA represents an alternative test for antibody generated by natural infection or BVDV vaccination.
Protection against murine cytomegalovirus infection by passive transfer of neutralizing and non-neutralizing monoclonal antibodies.	The ability of eight neutralizing monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) specific for structural proteins of murine cytomegalovirus (MCMV) to protect mice passively against MCMV infection was examined to determine firstly whether a correlation existed between the neutralization titres of the MAbs in vitro and the protection afforded by the MAbs in vivo and, secondly, the contribution of the host towards neutralization by the MAbs in vivo. The reduction in MCMV titre in the livers of BALB/c and C57BL/10 mice by the MAbs closely correlated with their neutralization titres in vitro. However, in the spleens of BALB/c mice, in which MCMV replicates to high titre, almost all of the MAbs tested were ineffective in reducing MCMV replication. Indeed, a significant increase in splenic MCMV replication was observed in mice treated 24 h prior to MCMV replication with either neutralizing MAbs or polyclonal Ig. Each of six MAbs prophylactically protected between 66 and 100% of mice from an intraperitoneal challenge with 4 LD50 MCMV regardless of their neutralization titre in vitro. The persistence of MCMV replication in the salivary gland was not prevented by either polyclonal Ig or MAbs. Despite the absolute requirement for complement for the neutralization of MCMV in vitro, both polyclonal Ig and MAb 4F9 protected A/J mice, which are deficient in the fifth component of complement, as efficiently as they did complement competent BALB/c mice. These results demonstrate that MAbs specific for single MCMV polypeptides are protective in vivo. In addition, the extent to which the MAbs protected against MCMV could not be predicted from their immunoreactive or neutralizing titres in vitro or by their effect on splenic MCMV replication in vivo. Furthermore, these studies suggest that the mechanism(s) of neutralization of MCMV in vitro are different to those which act in vivo.
Yellow fever vaccination elicits broad functional CD4+ T cell responses that recognize structural and nonstructural proteins.	Yellow fever virus (YFV) can induce acute, life-threatening disease that is a significant health burden in areas where yellow fever is endemic, but it is preventable through vaccination. The live attenuated 17D YFV strain induces responses characterized by neutralizing antibodies and strong T cell responses. This vaccine provides an excellent model for studying human immunity. While several studies have characterized YFV-specific antibody and CD8(+) T cell responses, less is known about YFV-specific CD4(+) T cells. Here we characterize the epitope specificity, functional attributes, and dynamics of YFV-specific T cell responses in vaccinated subjects by investigating peripheral blood mononuclear cells by using HLA-DR tetramers. A total of 112 epitopes restricted by seven common HLA-DRB1 alleles were identified. Epitopes were present within all YFV proteins, but the capsid, envelope, NS2a, and NS3 proteins had the highest epitope density. Antibody blocking demonstrated that the majority of YFV-specific T cells were HLA-DR restricted. Therefore, CD4(+) T cell responses could be effectively characterized with HLA-DR tetramers. Ex vivo tetramer analysis revealed that YFV-specific T cells persisted at frequencies ranging from 0 to 100 cells per million that are detectable years after vaccination. Longitudinal analysis indicated that YFV-specific CD4(+) T cells reached peak frequencies, often exceeding 250 cells per million, approximately 2 weeks after vaccination. As frequencies subsequently declined, YFV-specific cells regained CCR7 expression, indicating a shift from effector to central memory. Cells were typically CXCR3 positive, suggesting Th1 polarization, and produced gamma interferon and other cytokines after reactivation in vitro. Therefore, YFV elicits robust early effector CD4(+) T cell responses that contract, forming a detectable memory population. 
Efficient generation of monoclonal antibodies against major structural proteins of rabies virus with suckling mouse brain antigen.	The rabies virus is a neurotropic virus that causes fatal disease in humans and animals. However, not all commercial antibodies against rabies virus (RABV) structural proteins are generally available, and production of high-quality monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) requires high purification of virus particles and special facilities and is time-consuming. By using RABV-infected suckling mouse brain as antigens in this study, 11 hybridoma cells secreting MAbs against RABV were obtained, which showed strong reactivity with RABV-infected Vero cells in immunofluorescence assay. Among the 11 MAbs, three MAbs (1B11, 1C8, and 8H12) showed a neutralizing effect to RABV, while MAb 4B7 recognized the recombinant nucleoprotein (N) of RABV expressed in Vero cells; seven MAbs (1H3, 3H7, 4E7, 4G3, 5A10, 6C9, and 7B3) reacted specifically with phosphoprotein (P) of RABV. The MAbs developed in this study will be useful in establishing a diagnostic test and study on the interactions between RABV and its host. 
Differential host-dependent expression of alpha-galactosyl epitopes on viral glycoproteins: a study of eastern equine encephalitis virus as a model.	The carbohydrate epitope Gal alpha 1-3Gal beta 1-4GlcNAc-R (alpha-galactosyl) is abundantly expressed on cells of non-primate mammals, prosimians and New World monkeys, where it is synthesized by the enzyme alpha 1,3-galactosyltransferase (alpha 1,3GT). Old World monkeys, apes and humans lack alpha 1,3GT and hence do not synthesize alpha-galactosyl epitopes. Instead, these species produce a natural antibody, anti-Gal, which interacts specifically with alpha-galactosyl epitopes and which constitutes up to 1% of circulating immunoglobulins in humans. We have used eastern equine encephalitis (EEE) virus as a model to examine the differential expression of alpha-galactosyl epitopes on the glycoproteins of virus propagated in cells that either produce or lack alpha 1,3GT. As predicted, virus propagated in Vero cells (derived from the African green monkey, an Old World monkey) did not express alpha-galactosyl epitopes. In contrast, virus propagated in mouse 3T3 cells (EEE3T3) expressed approximately 80 alpha-galactosyl epitopes per virion on both the E1 and the E2 envelope glycoproteins. Thus, expression of the alpha-galactosyl epitope on virions paralleled that on host cells. The binding of anti-Gal antibody to these epitopes on EEE3T3 virions partially neutralized virus infectivity, raising the possibility that anti-Gal production in hosts may influence the initial infectious stage of viruses expressing alpha-galactosyl epitopes.
Characterization of a human astrovirus serotype 2 structural protein (VP26) that contains an epitope involved in virus neutralization.	An improved purification procedure for human astrovirus serotype 2 (H-Ast2) has facilitated the isolation of a neutralizing monoclonal antibody (PL-2) directed against one of the major structural proteins (VP26) of H-Ast2. A minor component (VP29) of the virus particles is also recognized by PL-2 antibody. Immunofluorescent staining indicated that VP26 (and/or VP29) has mainly a cytoplasmic location in LLCMK2-infected cells. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that the PL-2 epitope was present in the surface of astrovirus particles. Pulse-chase radiolabeling and immunoprecipitation of H-Ast2-infected cell extracts identified a P86 precursor of VP26. Several intermediate protein species (P74 to P35) that shared the PL-2 epitope were also identified in the infected cells. Finally, partial N-terminal sequencing of VP29 and VP26 polypeptides demonstrated that they originated by alternative processing of P86 after residues 361 and 394, respectively. These results corroborate the location of the astrovirus structural genes at the 3' end of the viral genome included in the previously identified 2.8-kb subgenomic RNA.
Antibodies against tick-borne encephalitis virus (TBEV) non-structural and structural proteins in human sera and spinal fluid.	Western immunoblotting of the serum and spinal fluid of patients with tick-borne encephalitis (TBE) revealed the presence of antibodies against non-structural and internal virion proteins. Antibodies against different viral proteins have been shown to appear 8 days postinfection and to circulate for more than 2 months in case of acute TBE. Antibodies against structural glycoprotein E and non-structural glycoprotein NS1 do not prevail over antibodies against other kinds of viral proteins. The large viral non-structural proteins NS5 and NS3 and small hydrophobic proteins NS2A and NS4B can cause an effective immune response as well. There is no strong correlation between immune response spectrum and fever or meningitis forms of disease. However, sera of patients with chronic TBE contained IgM antibodies to virus-specific proteins more than 1 year later and IgG antibodies with very low titers (if any).
Selective reconstitution of CD8+ cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses in immunodeficient bone marrow transplant recipients by the adoptive transfer of T cell clones.	The adoptive transfer of T cells specific for antigens encoded by pathogens and tumors has been an effective treatment for infections and malignancies in animal models and is potentially applicable for infections occurring in immunodeficient bone marrow transplant recipients. This article reviews recent insights derived from studies of the immunobiology of human cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in healthy and immunodeficient hosts and the development of adoptive immunotherapy as prophylaxis for CMV infection in recipients of allogeneic bone marrow transplants.
Structural proteins of avian infectious bronchitis virus: role in immunity and protection.	The antigenicity of the S1, M and N proteins of avian infectious bronchitis virus was compared following immunization of chickens with live and inactivated virus. The N protein was immunodominant antigen inducing cross-reactive antibodies in high titres whereas the S1 glycoprotein induced serotype-specific and cross-reactive antibodies. The M glycoprotein elicited antibodies in low titres and of limited cross-reactivity. Immunization of chickens with the purified N and M proteins did not induce protection against virulent challenge whereas immunization with the S1 glycoprotein prevented replication of nephropathogenic IBV in kidneys but not in tracheas of immunized chickens.
Antibodies to the structural proteins of the measles virus studied in some chronic diseases]	The qualitative and quantitative analysis of antibodies to measles virus (MV) structural proteins (SP) in sera from patients with chronic glomerulonephritis (CGN), chronic active hepatitis (CAH), and liver cirrhosis (LC) was done. The patients were shown to have neutralizing antibody titres (NAT) higher than those in healthy subjects. An analysis of antibodies to SP was carried out by the radioimmunoprecipitation assay. Antibodies were detected to hemagglutinin, nucleoprotein (NP), fusion protein and to matrix protein (M) both in sera from the patients with these chronic diseases, healthy subjects, and patients with active measles. (The two latter groups were selected for comparison). However, some patients with CAH and LC had no antibodies to M protein in spite of very high NAT. The quantitative analysis of MV antibodies to SP was done only for NP because this antibody had the least individual variations. The quantity of anti-NP antibodies was higher in most sera from patients with chronic diseases than in those from healthy subjects, and reached the level of that in patients with active measles. The presence of MV genome in the peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients CAH, CGN, and LC had been shown earlier. So it is assumed that MV persists in lymphoid tissue where the expression of all SP genes is realized.
Subunit rotavirus vaccine administered parenterally to rabbits induces active protective immunity.	Virus-like particles (VLPs) are being evaluated as a candidate rotavirus vaccine. The immunogenicity and protective efficacy of different formulations of VLPs administered parenterally to rabbits were tested. Two doses of VLPs (2/6-, G3 2/6/7-, or P[2], G3 2/4/6/7-VLPs) or SA11 simian rotavirus in Freund's adjuvants, QS-21 (saponin adjuvant), or aluminum phosphate (AlP) were administered. Serological and mucosal immune responses were evaluated in all vaccinated and control rabbits before and after oral challenge with 10(3) 50% infective doses of live P[14], G3 ALA lapine rotavirus. All VLP- and SA11-vaccinated rabbits developed high levels of rotavirus-specific serum and intestinal immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies but not intestinal IgA antibodies. SA11 and 2/4/6/7-VLPs afforded similar but much higher mean levels of protection than 2/6/7- or 2/6-VLPs in QS-21. The presence of neutralizing antibodies to VP4 correlated (P < 0.001, r = 0.55; Pearson's correlation coefficient) with enhanced protection rates, suggesting that these antibodies are important for protection. Although the inclusion of VP4 resulted in higher mean protection levels, high levels of protection (87 to 100%) from infection were observed in individual rabbits immunized with 2/6/7- or 2/6-VLPs in Freund's adjuvants. Therefore, neither VP7 nor VP4 was absolutely required to achieve protection from infection in the rabbit model when Freund's adjuvant was used. Our results show that VLPs are immunogenic when administered parenterally to rabbits and that Freund's adjuvant is a better adjuvant than QS-21. The use of the rabbit model may help further our understanding of the critical rotavirus proteins needed to induce active protection. VLPs are a promising candidate for a parenterally administered subunit rotavirus vaccine.
Viral immune evasion due to persistence of activated T cells without effector function.	We examined the regulation of virus-specific CD8 T cell responses during chronic lymphocytic choriomeningitis virus (LCMV) infection of mice. Our study shows that within the same persistently infected host, different mechanisms can operate to silence antiviral T cell responses; CD8 T cells specific to one dominant viral epitope were deleted, whereas CD8 T cells responding to another dominant epitope persisted indefinitely. These virus-specific CD8 T cells expressed activation markers (CD69(hi), CD44(hi), CD62Llo) and proliferated in vivo but were unable to elaborate any antiviral effector functions. This unresponsive phenotype was more pronounced under conditions of CD4 T cell deficiency, highlighting the importance of CD8- CD4 T cell collaboration in controlling persistent infections. Importantly, in the presence of CD4 T cell help, adequate CD8 effector activity was maintained and the chronic viral infection eventually resolved. The persistence of activated virus-specific CD8 T cells without effector function reveals a novel mechanism for silencing antiviral immune responses and also offers new possibilities for enhancing CD8 T cell immunity in chronically infected hosts.
