A conditional deletion of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor in adult spinal cord dorsal horn reduces NMDA currents and injury-induced pain.	To determine the importance of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR) in pain hypersensitivity after injury, the NMDAR1 (NR1) subunit was selectively deleted in the lumbar spinal cord of adult mice by the localized injection of an adenoassociated virus expressing Cre recombinase into floxed NR1 mice. NR1 subunit mRNA and dendritic protein are reduced by 80% in the area of the virus injection, and NMDA currents, but not AMPA currents, are reduced 86-88% in lamina II neurons. The spatial NR1 knock-out does not alter heat or cold paw-withdrawal latencies, mechanical threshold, or motor function. However, injury-induced pain produced by intraplantar formalin is reduced by 70%. Our results demonstrate conclusively that the postsynaptic NR1 receptor subunit in the lumbar dorsal horn of the spinal cord is required for central sensitization, the central facilitation of pain transmission produced by peripheral injury.
Innate immunity together with duration of antigen persistence regulate effector T cell induction.	Proliferation of T cells is important for the expansion of specific T cell clones during immune responses. In addition, for the establishment of protective immunity against viruses, bacteria, and tumors, the expanded T cells must differentiate into effector T cells. Here we show that effector T cell generation is driven by activation of APCs and duration of antigenic stimulation. Adoptively transferred TCR-transgenic T cells extensively proliferated upon immunization. However, these T cells failed to differentiate into effector cells and died within 1 wk after immunization unless antigenic peptides persisted for >1 day or were presented by activated APCs. The induction of protective immunity in a nontransgenic system was more stringent, since activation of APCs or prolonged Ag persistence alone was not sufficient to drive immunity. In contrast, Ag had to be presented for several days by activated APCs to trigger protective T cell responses. Thus, activation of APCs and duration of Ag presentation together regulate the induction of protective T cell responses.
Stimulation of pneumovirus-specific CD8+ T-cells using a non-toxic recombinant ricin delivery system.	Internalisation of the plant toxin ricin occurs by retrograde transport which delivers the toxin to the ER where it intersects with the MHC class I system for peptide antigen display. Here, we describe the generation of an inactivated, non-toxic, ricin molecule fused to a peptide which elicits a CD8+ T-cell response in mice directed against pneumonia virus of mice, a pneumovirus related to human respiratory syncytial virus. The ricin fusion elicited a significant T-cell response when delivered by intraperitoneal inoculation in the absence of adjuvent. Challenge experiments showed that the T-cell response resulting from inoculation with the ricin-peptide fusion molecule delayed the onset of virus-induced disease.
Study on immunogenicity of a recombinant adenovirus vaccine containing neuraminidase gene of H5N1 influenza virus (A/Anhui/1/2005) in mice]	To investigate immunity of a recombinant adenovirus vaccine (rAdV) containing codon-modified neuraminidase (Mod. NA) gene of H5N1 influenza virus in BALB/c mice and to screen for appropriate dose.
Coadministration of epithelial junction opener JO-1 improves the efficacy and safety of chemotherapeutic drugs.	Epithelial junctions between tumor cells inhibit the penetration of anticancer drugs into tumors. We previously reported on recombinant adenovirus serotype 3-derived protein (JO-1), which triggers transient opening of intercellular junctions in epithelial tumors through binding to desmoglein 2 (DSG2), and enhances the antitumor effects of several therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. The goal of this study was to evaluate whether JO-1 cotherapy can also improve the efficacy of chemotherapeutic drugs.
Integrin alphavbeta6 is involved in measles protein-induced airway immune suppression.	Measles infection causes immune suppression that contributes to morbidity and mortality of the patients; the mechanism is poorly understood. Regulatory T cells (Treg) play a critical role in immune suppression. Integrin alphavbeta6 (avb6) is associated with Treg's function. This study aims to investigate into the mechanism by which measles C protein (MVP)-induced avb6 contributes the generation of Tregs in the lung.
Nucleoprotein nanostructures combined with adjuvants adapted to the neonatal immune context: a candidate mucosal RSV vaccine.	The human respiratory syncytial virus (hRSV) is the leading cause of severe bronchiolitis in infants worldwide. The most severe RSV diseases occur between 2 and 6 months-of-age, so pediatric vaccination will have to be started within the first weeks after birth, when the immune system is prone to Th2 responses that may turn deleterious upon exposure to the virus. So far, the high risk to prime for immunopathological responses in infants has hampered the development of vaccine. In the present study we investigated the safety and efficacy of ring-nanostructures formed by the recombinant nucleoprotein N of hRSV (N(SRS)) as a mucosal vaccine candidate against RSV in BALB/c neonates, which are highly sensitive to immunopathological Th2 imprinting.
The peptide derived from the Ig-like domain of human herpesvirus 8 K1 protein induces death in hematological cancer cells.	Although significant progress has been made in the treatment of lymphomas, many lymphomas exhibit resistance to cell death, suggesting a defective Fas signaling, which remains poorly understood. We previously reported that cells expressing the K1 protein of human herpesvirus 8 (HHV-8) resist death through the complex formation of the Ig-like domain of K1 with Fas. Recently, we investigated whether peptides derived from the Ig-like domain of the K1 protein may affect cell death.
Ocular delivery of pRNA nanoparticles: distribution and clearance after subconjunctival injection.	RNA nanoparticles derived from the three-way junction (3WJ) of the pRNA of bacteriophage phi29 DNA packaging motor were previously found to be thermodynamically stable. As the nanoparticles could have potential in ocular drug delivery, the objectives in the present study were to investigate the distribution of pRNA nanoparticles after subconjunctival injection and examine the feasibility to deliver the nanoparticles to the cells of cornea and retina.
Humoral and cellular immunity to varicella-zoster virus glycoprotein gpI and to a non-glycosylated protein, p170, in the strain 2 guinea-pig.	Strain 2 guinea-pigs were inoculated with infectious varicella-zoster virus (VZV) or with immunoaffinity-purified proteins of VZV. Monoclonal antibodies to the VZV gpI (90,000/58,000 complex) and to a non-glycosylated protein, p170, were used to prepare the polypeptide antigens. Humoral and cell-mediated immune responses to the infectious virus were compared with those elicited by the gpI and p170 proteins. Both VZV IgG antibody production and T lymphocyte proliferation to VZV were detected after immunization with infectious VZV and with VZV proteins. The antibody and T lymphocyte responses waned after protein immunization in comparison with the responses induced by infectious VZV but were detected again immediately after reimmunization with gpI or p170.
Characteristics of the immune response to poliovirus virion polypeptides after immunization with live or inactivated polio vaccines.	Groups of infants were immunized with high-potency, inactivated polio vaccine (IPV) or live, attenuated oral polio vaccine (OPV) and studied for antibody responses to whole virus and polypeptides VP1, VP2, and VP3. Both vaccines induced neutralizing and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) IgG to the whole virus, IgG antibody to VP1 and VP3, and similar secretory IgA to VP1 and VP2 in the nasopharyngeal secretions (NPS) without any VP3 response. Virus-specific neutralizing activity in NPS was observed in 70% of subjects receiving OPV and in only 26.7% of subjects receiving IPV. ELISA antibody also appeared to be lower in IPV than in OPV subjects. These observations suggest that specific ELISA antibody to poliovirus virion proteins can be frequently induced in the secretory sites, by OPV as well as by IPV. Neutralizing antibody response in the NPS appeared, however, to be more effectively induced by OPV than by the high-potency IPV.
Protection of mice against an influenza virus infection by oral vaccination with viral nucleoprotein incorporated into immunostimulating complexes.	Influenza A virus nucleoprotein (NP) was integrated into immunostimulating complexes (ISCOMs) after attachment of bacterial lipopolysaccharide to the antigen. Oral immunization with these NP-ISCOMs protected mice fully against an otherwise lethal challenge infection with an unrelated influenza virus subtype without the appearance of severe clinical signs or extensive pathological lesions in the lungs. Mice immunized with analogous bovine serum albumine-incorporated ISCOMs all died. After oral immunization, high titers of NP-specific antibodies, particularly IgA, could be detected in the bronchoalveolar fluid and in the blood serum. No cytotoxic lymphocytes could be demonstrated in the spleens or the lungs of vaccinated mice, and no anti-NP antibody-dependent cytolysis of infected host cells was mediated by complement or in the form of an antibody-dependent cell cytotoxicity. However, a vigorous delayed-type hypersensitivity reaction was produced after probing vaccinated animals with purified NP. No comparable protective immunity or antibody response was induced by a strictly intragastric administration of NP-ISCOMs. It appears, therefore, that the general and local immune response in the lungs was primarily stimulated through contact of NP-ISCOMs with the mucous membrane of the oro-pharyngeal cavity and that cytotoxic effects did not play a major role for the establishment of the protective immunity. Partial protection against a lethal challenge was observed in chickens immunized with NP-ISCOMs in the drinking water.
The pulmonary immune response of Balb/c mice vaccinated with the fusion protein of respiratory syncytial virus.	We have investigated the efficacy of vaccination with the purified fusion (F) protein of respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) on aluminium hydroxide adjuvant in Balb/c mice. The purpose of the study was to define the role of the local pulmonary mononuclear cell (PMC) infiltrate in the clearance of virus from the lower respiratory tract. Balb/c mice immunized with F protein were able to inhibit the replication of virus in the lungs as early as 4 days after intranasal challenge. In contrast, unimmunized mice required 8 days. Examination of humoral immune mechanisms demonstrated that vaccination with the purified protein induced moderate titres of serum neutralizing antibody. In addition, immunization induced low to moderate levels of antigen-dependent killer cell activity. To examine the immunological events responsible for virus clearance in vivo, PMC infiltrates were isolated after virus challenge and tested directly for protective capacity. After virus challenge, the F protein-immune mice were able to recall the cytolytic cells to the pulmonary tissues. The results further suggested that the local antigen-dependent killer activity was mediated by cytolytic T cells of the CD8 phenotype. Adoptive transfer studies were also conducted to identify further the role the PMC infiltrate had in protective immunity. Adoptive transfer of F protein-educated PMC into naive syngeneic recipients suggested that the pulmonary infiltrates contained the cellular constituents necessary for protective immunity. Both humoral and cellular immune elements were present.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
