Modified M2 proteins produce heterotypic immunity against influenza A virus.	Vaccination with the influenza A transmembrane protein M2 provides enhanced viral clearance and recovery from influenza A virus infection in mice. However, the high degree of hydrophobicity of the protein limits its purification for vaccine purposes. We have attempted to alter the structure of the M2 protein to allow high level recombinant expression in Escherichia coli, to reduce its hydrophobicity and improve protein solubility, thus improving its properties as a vaccine subunit candidate. Constructs investigated include deletion of the transmembrane domain of M2 (residues 26-43) and an extended deletion (residues 26-55). A full-length M2 protein was not pursued because of poor expression, even in the presence of amantadine. Expressed as glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins and used to vaccinate mice, either deletion construct was found to raise M2-specific serum antibodies and enhance viral clearance in mice challenged with homologous and heterologous influenza A viruses. Enzymatic cleavage from the GST fusion domain produces soluble protein giving similar results. The results demonstrate that large alterations of M2 protein structure can improve its isolation and purification characteristics without detracting from its immunogenic properties.
Evaluation of the AmpliSensor PCR and the SHARP signal detection system for the early prediction of symptomatic CMV infection in solid transplant recipients.	Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is associated with high morbidity and mortality in transplant patients. Specific antiviral treatment at an early stage of CMV infection may effectively ameliorate, but not eliminate CMV disease in these patients. Presently, the pp65 antigenemia test on peripheral leukocytes is the method most widely used for predicting and monitoring transplant patients for active CMV infection. Nucleic acid amplification methods are less well defined since they lack standardisation.
Large-scale expansion of dendritic cell-primed polyclonal human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte lines using lymphoblastoid cell lines for adoptive immunotherapy.	Dendritic cells (DCs) have been shown to activate cytotoxic T-lymphocytes (CTLs) for many tumor and virus-associated antigens in vitro. In this study, the authors tested the feasibility of using DCs to expand polyclonal, cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific CTL lines for adoptive immunotherapy. Two stimulations with DCs expressing pp65, the immunodominant antigen of CMV, effectively activated and expanded MHC-class I restricted, CMV-specific CTLs from peripheral blood mononuclear cells. However, limiting monocyte-derived DC numbers precluded the authors from expanding the CTLs to the numbers required for adoptive transfer protocols. Nonspecific stimulation methods failed to expand CTL lines specifically. However, the authors found that lymphoblastoid cell lines (LCLs) expressing pp65 expanded pp65-specific CTL lines without competition from EBV-specific CTLs. An unlimited source of antigen presenting cells that could present antigen in the appropriate MHC context emerged as a critical point for expansion of polyclonal, antigen-specific CTL lines.
Dendritic cells efficiently acquire and present antigen derived from lung cancer cells and induce antigen-specific T-cell responses.	Active immunotherapy of cancer requires the availability of a source of tumor antigens. To date, no such antigen associated with lung cancer has been identified. We have therefore investigated the ability of dendritic cells (DC) to capture whole irradiated human lung tumor cells and to present a defined surrogate antigen derived from the ingested tumor cells. We also describe an in vitro system using a modified human adenocarcinoma cell line (A549-M1) that expresses the well-characterized, immunogenic influenza M1 matrix protein as a surrogate tumor antigen. Peripheral blood monocyte-derived DC, when co-cultured with sub-lethally irradiated A549 cells or primary lung tumor cells derived from surgical resection of non-small cell carcinoma (NSCLC), efficiently ingested the tumor cells as determined by flow cytometry analysis and confocal microscopic examination. More importantly, DC loaded with irradiated A549-M1 cells efficiently processed and presented tumor cell-derived M1 antigen to T cells and elicited antigen-specific immune responses that included IFNgamma release from an M1-specific T-cell line, expansion of M1 peptide-specific Vbeta17+ and CD8+ peripheral T cells and generation of M1-specific cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL). We also compared DC loaded with irradiated tumor cells to those loaded with tumor cell lysate or killed tumor cells and found that irradiated lung tumor cells as a source of tumor antigen for DC loading is superior to tumor cell lysate or killed tumor cells in efficient induction of antigen-specific T-cell responses. Our results demonstrate the feasibility of using lung tumor cell-loaded DC to induce immune responses against lung cancer-associated antigens and support ongoing efforts to develop a DC-based lung cancer vaccine.
"Self" to cytotoxic T cells has to be 1,000 or less high affinity nonapeptides per MHC antigen.	In order to serve as the effective target of a relevant cytotoxic T-cell receptor, the same peptide fragment has to occupy at least 0.1% of the class I major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigen sites on the plasma membrane. Because of this need, I content that the thymic educator cell of "self" to cytotoxic T cells can suppress autoreactive T-cell clones only with regard to at the most, 1,000 self nonapeptides per a given allelic form of class I MHC antigens; e.g., HLA-A2. Each allelic form of class I MHC antigen apparently developed the preferential binding affinity toward a specific set of nonapeptides. The requirement for preferential binding can either be permissive or stringent. In the case of human HLA-A2, those nonapeptides having either Leu or Met at the second position and mainly Val, but occasionally Leu at the ninth position are preferred. Since both Leu and Val are very common residues, the typical somatic cell type readily supplies nearly 3000 high affinity host nonapeptides preferred by HLA-A2. Of those, the tolerance can be induced, at the most, to only 1,000 nonapeptides. In view of this, permissive class I MHC antigens such as HLA-A2 carefully avoid high affinity nonapeptides in viral proteins, for their status as to self or nonself is uncertain, and they choose second choice nonapeptides as T epitopes. In sharp contrast to human HLA-A2, mouse H-2Db represents the stringent class I MHC antigens. In order to show the high binding affinity toward H-2Db, nonapeptides are required to carry Asn at position 5 and Met or Ile at the equally critical position 9. Inasmuch as Asn and Met are rare residues and Ile, too, is not a common residue, the typical somatic cell type can supply only several hundred host nonapeptides having the high binding affinity toward H-2Db. Under the circumstance, there is no problem in memorizing the selfness of all of them. Accordingly, T epitopes are almost invariably chosen from the high affinity nonapeptides that are present in their viral proteins.
Results of a cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific CD8+/interferon- gamma+ cytokine flow cytometry assay correlate with clinical evidence of protective immunity in patients with AIDS with CMV retinitis.	To evaluate the potential clinical utility of a cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific CD8+/interferon (IFN)- gamma+ cytokine flow cytometry (CFC) assay for patients with CMV retinitis (CMVR), stored peripheral blood mononuclear cell specimens were obtained from patients with active CMVR (i.e., having clinical evidence of absent CMV-protective immunity), as well as from highly active antiretroviral therapy-treated patients with CMVR who were able to discontinue anti-CMV therapy without subsequent progression of retinitis (i.e., having clinical evidence of restored CMV-protective immunity). Positive CD8+/IFN- gamma+ T lymphocyte responses to CMV phosphoprotein 65 or immediate early peptide-pool stimulation were present in specimens from only 3 of 10 patients with active CMVR but were present in at least 1 specimen from all 20 patients with immunorestored CMVR, with a mean of 2.4 specimens/patient tested, spanning up to 6 months of observation (P = .0001). Among the patients with immunorestored CMVR, positive responses were present in all longitudinal specimens from 15 of the 20 patients. These data suggest that further testing of the CMV-specific CD8+/IFN- gamma+ CFC assay, for clinical utility in predicting incident and progressive CMVR disease, is warranted.
An ELISA optimized for porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus detection in faeces.	Monoclonal antibodies to porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus (PEDV) membrane protein M were prepared and used for the comparative assessment of three blocking ELISA variants to detect PEDV. The competitive blocking ELISA (CB-ELISA) format showed the highest sensitivity, allowing detection of 10(2.5) plaque-forming units of PEDV/ml in culture medium. Its specificity was verified by inclusion of control samples containing transmissible gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) and rotavirus A in each analysis. Eighty porcine field samples of faeces obtained from 38 herds affected with diarrhoea were examined, and PEDV was found in 15 (19%) samples from 6 (16%) herds. The suitability of the CB-ELISA for the screening herds in epizootiologic situations is discussed.
Altered function in CD8+ T cells following paramyxovirus infection of the respiratory tract.	For many respiratory pathogens, CD8+ T cells have been shown to play a critical role in clearance. However, there are still many unanswered questions with regard to the factors that promote the most efficacious immune response and the potential for immunoregulation of effector cells at the local site of infection. We have used infection of the respiratory tract with the model paramyxovirus simian virus 5 (SV5) to study CD8+ T-cell responses in the lung. For the present study, we report that over time a population of nonresponsive, virus-specific CD8+ T cells emerged in the lung, culminating in a lack of function in approximately 85% of cells specific for the immunodominant epitope from the viral matrix (M) protein by day 40 postinfection. Concurrent with the induction of nonresponsiveness, virus-specific cells that retained function at later times postinfection exhibited an increased requirement for CD8 engagement. This change was coupled with a nearly complete loss of functional phosphoprotein-specific cells, a response previously shown to be almost exclusively CD8 independent. These studies add to the growing evidence for immune dysregulation following viral infection of the respiratory tract.
Cell-based protein vaccines for influenza.	An overview of influenza vaccines in development is provided, with an emphasis on new cell-based protein vaccine candidates. The current licensed vaccine is a cost-effective means to reduce the impact of influenza with a known mechanism of action. Most vaccine companies are focusing on the production of whole influenza viruses in various cell lines to replace egg-based manufacturing technology. Only a limited number of targets have been identified for the development of cell-based protein influenza vaccines. They include hemagglutinin, neuraminidase, M2 and nucleocapsid protein. These protein-based vaccine candidates are discussed, along with their progress in clinical development and the advantages and disadvantages of each vaccine approach.
Presentation of three different viral peptides, HTLV-1 Tax, HCMV gB, and influenza virus M1, is determined by common structural features of the HLA-A2.1 molecule.	To determine whether similar or dissimilar molecular features of class I molecules are involved in the presentation of structurally distinct peptides, we have investigated the influence of different pockets of the HLA-A2.1 molecule on the presentation of three different viral peptides. HTLV-I Tax peptide 12-19, HCMV gB 619-628, and influenza M1 58-66 are minimal peptides that induce HLA-A2.1-restricted noncross-reactive CTL. A detailed analysis of the structural features of HLA-A2.1 that are involved in peptide presentation was undertaken using a panel of 11 HLA-A2 mutants with single amino acid substitutions within pockets present in the peptide binding site. Nine of the 11 mutants affected presentation of each of the three peptides, whereas the other two mutants had negative effects on presentation of only two of these viral peptides. These results indicate that common structural features in HLA-A2 determine the binding of different peptides, and help to provide a plausible explanation for how structurally diverse peptides bind to HLA-A2.
A study on the mechanism of antibody-dependent enhancement of feline infectious peritonitis virus infection in feline macrophages by monoclonal antibodies.	Enhancement of feline infectious peritonitis virus (FIPV) infection of feline macrophages was studied using monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to the FIPV strain 79-1146. Adherent cells recovered from the feline lung and peritoneal cavity phagocytosed fixed red blood cells, and formed Fc-mediated rosettes. Enhancement of virus infection by MAb was investigated by inoculating alveolar macrophages with a mixtures of viral suspension and MAb, and examining the cells for intracellular viral antigen by the immunofluorescence assay and the amount of infectious virus in the supernatant fluid after incubation. The replication of FIPV in macrophages was enhanced by non-neutralizing MAbs recognizing peplomer protein (S) and transmembrane protein (M) of the virus. Even among the MAbs having the ability to neutralize FIPV strain 79-1146, some reversely enhanced virus infection when they were diluted. The enhancement was suppressed by pretreatment of the MAb with protein A. The enhancement was reduced by the use of F(ab')2 fragment of MAb. These results demonstrated antibody-dependent enhancement (ADE) of FIPV infection in macrophage. The replication of FIPV 79-1146 strain in macrophages from FIPV antibody-positive cats was more enhanced than in those from antibody-negative cats.
Ebola virus-like particles produced in insect cells exhibit dendritic cell stimulating activity and induce neutralizing antibodies.	Recombinant baculoviruses (rBV) expressing Ebola virus VP40 (rBV-VP40) or GP (rBV-GP) proteins were generated. Infection of Sf9 insect cells by rBV-VP40 led to assembly and budding of filamentous particles from the cell surface as shown by electron microscopy. Ebola virus-like particles (VLPs) were produced by coinfection of Sf9 cells with rBV-VP40 and rBV-GP, and incorporation of Ebola GP into VLPs was demonstrated by SDS-PAGE and Western blot analysis. Recombinant baculovirus infection of insect cells yielded high levels of VLPs, which were shown to stimulate cytokine secretion from human dendritic cells similar to VLPs produced in mammalian cells. The immunogenicity of Ebola VLPs produced in insect cells was evaluated by immunization of mice. Analysis of antibody responses showed that most of the GP-specific antibodies were of the IgG2a subtype, while no significant level of IgG1 subtype antibodies specific for GP was induced, indicating the induction of a Th1-biased immune response. Furthermore, sera from Ebola VLP immunized mice were able to block infection by Ebola GP pseudotyped HIV virus in a single round infection assay, indicating that a neutralizing antibody against the Ebola GP protein was induced. These results show that production of Ebola VLPs in insect cells using recombinant baculoviruses represents a promising approach for vaccine development against Ebola virus infection.
Influenza A-specific, HLA-A2.1-restricted cytotoxic T lymphocytes from HLA-A2.1 transgenic mice recognize fragments of the M1 protein.	Previous studies have indicated that in transgenic mice expressing human class I MHC molecules, it is difficult to demonstrate a significant CTL response to a viral Ag in the context of the transgenic molecule. In this paper, a procedure is reported for the isolation of influenza-specific murine CTL restricted by the human class I molecule HLA-A2.1. The principal specificity of such CTL is for a fragment of the influenza M1 protein that has been previously shown to be immunodominant for human HLA-A2.1-restricted CTL. CTL of this specificity were also established through the use of peptide-pulsed rather than virus-infected stimulators. The dependence of murine CTL recognition upon peptide length and HLA-A2 structure was established to be similar to that previously reported for human CTL. However, the fine specificity of CTL maintained on virus-infected stimulators was somewhat different from that of CTL maintained with M1 peptide. This suggests that differences in surface density or peptide structure between peptide-pulsed and virus-infected stimulators may result in the outgrowth of T cells with different receptor structures. The immunodominance of the M1 peptide determinant in both mice and humans suggests that species-specific differences in TCR structure, Ag-processing systems, and self-tolerance are of less importance than limitations on the ability of antigenic peptides to bind to appropriate class I molecules. These results thus establish the utility of the transgenic system for the identification of human class I MHC-restricted T cell epitopes.
Analysis of the HLA-restricted influenza-specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte response in transgenic mice carrying a chimeric human-mouse class I major histocompatibility complex.	Transgenic murine lines have been constructed that express a chimeric class I molecule composed of the alpha 1 and alpha 2 domains of HLA-A2.1 and the alpha 3, transmembrane, and cytoplasmic domains of H-2Kb. Upon immunization with influenza virus, transgenic mice developed a strong A2.1Kb-restricted cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) response specific for the same matrix protein epitope that serves as the dominant A2.1-restricted determinant in the equivalent human response. Fine specificity analysis of CTL clones using truncated peptides revealed strong similarity between the response repertoire of transgenic mice and that previously reported using influenza-specific A2.1-restricted CTL clones from humans. This suggests that even when considering T cell responses by different species, the alpha 1 and alpha 2 domains of the restriction element play a dominant role in determining the CTL specific repertoire. Thus, substituting the alpha 3 domain of A2.1 with a murine counterpart has permitted development of a transgenic strain that should serve as an excellent model system in studies of HLA-restricted responses.
Rescue of the immunotherapeutic potential of a novel T cell epitope in the Epstein-Barr virus latent membrane protein 2.	Epstein-Barr virus (EBV)-associated tumors express a limited number of viral antigens but most of them express the latent membrane protein 2 (LMP2). This article describes a peptide derived from LMP2 (residues 396-404, designated LLL) as a potentially useful vaccine. This peptide could at first be defined as an unlikely T cell target as it could not stabilize MHC surface expression in transporter associated with antigen-processing (TAP)-deficient cells. Nevertheless, T lymphocytes reactive to LLL were detected in the peripheral blood of four EBV-seropositive healthy individuals. We have constructed a chimeric molecule in which LLL was fused to the amino-terminal end of the beta(2) microglobulin (beta(2)m). Autologous dendritic cells constitutively expressing the LLLbeta(2)m molecule were capable of expanding in vitro HLA-A2-restricted anti-LLL T lymphocytes from the peripheral blood of one of the donors. These T lymphocytes exhibited cytolytic activity against target cells expressing the chimeric molecules as well as against EBV-infected lymphoblastoid cells expressing natural LLL-MHC complexes.
TLR ligands differentially affect uptake and presentation of cellular antigens.	Dendritic cells (DCs) have the unique ability to efficiently present T-cell epitopes from exogenous antigens on MHC class I molecules, a process called cross-presentation. In our study we demonstrate that stimulation of monocyte-derived DCs with Toll-like receptor (TLR) ligands differentially affects the uptake and cross-presentation of cellular antigens. Activation of DCs with TLR3 or TLR4 but not with TLR2 or TLR7/8 ligands inhibited phagocytosis of apoptotic tumor cells and resulted in a reduced cross-presentation of pp65-derived T-cell epitopes on MHC class I molecules upon engulfment of cytomegalovirus (CMV)-infected fibroblasts. These results have an important impact on the understanding of the interactions between the immune system and pathogens and the development of vaccination strategies to treat malignant diseases.
The clonal composition of human CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ cells determined by a comprehensive DNA-based multiplex PCR for TCRB gene rearrangements.	The characterization of the T-cell receptor (TCR) repertoire of CD4+ regulatory T cells (T(R)) has been limited due to the RNA degradation that results following permeabilization and fixation as routinely used for intracellular staining of Foxp3. In the present study the clonal composition of human umbilical cord blood (UCB) and adult peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) CD4+ T(R) and non-T(R) was characterized by a DNA-based multiplex PCR which allowed for the consistent clonotypic characterization of cells that have undergone fixation and permeabilization. To validate this method, CD8+ T cells from two HLA A()0201 individuals were sorted and compared clonotypically based upon their ability either to secrete interferon-gamma in response to a CMV pp65 epitope or to bind to the corresponding pMHC I tetramer. Clonotypes shared between the CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ and CD4+CD25+Foxp3- subsets were observed in all 3 UCB and in one adult PBMCs, suggesting that naïve and memory CD4+ T(R) can share the same clonotypes as CD4+ non-T(R) in humans.
T cell recognition patterns of immunodominant cytomegalovirus antigens in primary and persistent infection.	Replication of human cytomegalovirus is controlled by a vigorous CD8 T cell response. The persistent nature of infection is believed to periodically stimulate T cell responses resulting in considerable expansions of virus-specific CD8 T cells over time. In this study, we describe the magnitude and breadth of CD8 T cell responses against the immunodominant viral Ags, IE-1 and pp65, in acute and long-term infection using the IFN-gamma ELISPOT assay. Simultaneously, we have identified several novel MHC class I restricted CD8 T cell epitopes. Acute phase responses in immunocompetent donors appear to be extremely focused as early as 1 week post diagnosis with dominant peptide-specific responses observed against both proteins. These dominant responses remain detectable at all later time points over a 4-year follow-up. Interestingly the IE-1 responses show an increase over time whereas the pp65 responses do not, which contrasts with data showing that responses against both Ags are elevated in elderly individuals. We also observe the rapid emergence of an effector memory phenotype for virus-specific CD8 T cells as observed in persistent infection. Over time the revertant CD45RA(pos) effector cell population is also expanded, and this is more evident in the preferentially expanded IE-1 responses. We postulate that periodic low-level virus reactivation after the acute infection phase preferentially stimulates these responses whereas pp65-specific T cell expansions probably occur during the infrequent episodes of lytic viral replication or secondary infection.
CMV pp65 and IE-1 T cell epitopes recognized by healthy subjects.	Adoptive immune and vaccine therapies have been used to prevent cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease in recipients of hematopoietic progenitor cell transplants, but the nature of T cell responses to CMV have not been completely characterized.
Immunodominant peptides from conserved influenza proteins--a tool for more efficient vaccination in the elderly?	Influenza-specific CD8+ T cells are important for the clearance of infection especially in high risk groups such as elderly persons. Activation of these cells by immunization might therefore be a useful tool for a better protection of this specific age group. We therefore analyzed the frequency, phenotype and function of CD8+ T cells with specificity to the influenza M1(58-66) peptide in young, middle-aged and elderly persons ex vivo and after in vitro stimulation. Significantly lower numbers of M1(58-66)-specific CD8+ T cells were detected in the middle-aged and elderly compared to young donors. M1(58-66)-specific CD8+ T cells were either CD45RA(low)CD45RO(low) or CD45RA-CD45RO+, expressed CD28 and CD62L and did not produce perforin. There was no difference in the phenotype of influenza-specific CD8+ T cells between the three age groups. Despite the initially low numbers of M1(58-66)-specific CD8+ T cells in the older age groups, these cells could be expanded in vitro following peptide stimulation. They also acquired a CD45RO+CD28+ CD62L(+/-) phenotype and produced perforin. Our results demonstrate that although initially low in number, M1(58-66)-specific CD8+ T cells from elderly persons can be propagated and differentiated into perforin producing effector cells upon appropriate stimulation. M1(58-66) peptide or other immunodominant peptides derived from conserved influenza proteins could therefore be useful in future influenza vaccines in order to render elderly persons better protected against disease, in particular in the case of an influenza pandemic.
Preparation and identification of HLA-A*1101 tetramer loading with human cytomegalovirus pp65 antigen peptide.	MHC/peptide tetramer technology has been widely used to study antigen-specific T cells, especially for identifying virus-specific CD8+ T cells in humans. The tetramer molecule is composed of HLA heavy chain, beta2-microglobulin (beta2m), an antigenic peptide, and fluorescent-labeled streptavidin. To further investigate the HLA-A*1101-restricted CD8+ T cell responses against human cytomegalovirus (HCMV), we established an approach to prepare HLA-A*1101 tetramer complexed with a peptide from HCMV. The cDNA encoding HLA-A*1101 heavy chain was cloned and the prokaryotic expression vector for the ectodomain of HLA-A*1101 fused with a BirA substrate peptide (HLA-A*1101-BSP) at its carboxyl terminus was constructed. The fusion protein was highly expressed as inclusion bodies under optimized conditions in Escherichia coli. Moreover, HLA-A*1101-BSP protein was refolded in the presence of beta2m and an HCMV peptide pp65(16-24) (GPISGHVLK, GPI). Soluble HLA-A*1101-GPI monomer was biotinylated and purified to a purity of 95%, which was subsequently combined with streptavidin to form tetramers at a yield of > 80%. The HLA-A*1101-GPI tetramers could bind to virus-specific CD8+ T cells, suggesting soluble HLA-A*1101-GPI tetramers were biologically functional. This study provides the basis for further evaluation of HLA-A*1101-restricted CD8+ T cell responses against HCMV infection.
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) IE1- and pp65-specific CD8+ T cell responses broaden over time after primary CMV infection in infants.	Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection remains a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in young children. We have previously shown that CD8+ T cell responses to CMV pp65 or IE1 protein were readily detectable in children with congenital or postnatal CMV infection. Here, we have further characterized the evolution of the peptide specificity of these responses in 7 infants<6 months of age at the start of the study. Thirteen pp65 and 15 IE1 peptides (median, 5 peptides/infant) were targeted, and most (61%) represented sequences not previously reported. Peptide specificity remained stable or broadened over time despite the clearance of CMV viremia. Loss of peptide recognition was not observed. Responses with the highest functional peptide avidity were not necessarily detected earliest. These data provide additional evidence that young infants can generate diverse CMV-specific CD8+ T cell responses but show that early responses may exhibit relatively focused peptide specificity and lower peptide avidity.
Hemagglutinin protein is a primary target of the measles virus-specific HLA-A2-restricted CD8+ T cell response during measles and after vaccination.	To characterize the measles virus (MV)-specific T cell responses important for evaluation of measles vaccines, human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-A2-positive and -negative adults immunized with measles-mumps-rubella vaccine were studied. Both groups developed increases in antibody and in interferon (IFN)- gamma -producing cells in response to pooled hemagglutinin (H) and fusion peptides. HLA-A2-binding peptides were predicted for all MV-encoded proteins and confirmed by T2 cell stabilization. Twenty-nine peptides were tested, and 19 (6 from H) stimulated increased IFN- gamma secretion in a majority of vaccinees. Peptide-loaded HLA-A2 tetramers or immunoglobulin dimers documented MV-specific CD8+ T cell responses after vaccination and during measles and confirmed new A2 epitopes in H (250-259 and 516-525 aa) and matrix (M; 50-58 aa) protein and previously described epitopes in H (30-38 aa), M (211-219 aa), and nonstructural protein C (84-92 aa). No single peptide dominated the response. We conclude that H is an important stimulus for CD8+ T cell as well as for antibody responses in HLA-A2-positive individuals.
Assessment of the protection afforded by triple baculovirus recombinant coexpressing H5, N3, M1 proteins against a homologous H5N3 low-pathogenicity avian influenza virus challenge in Muscovy ducks.	In Asia, domestic ducks have been shown to play a pivotal role in H5 high-pathogenicity avian influenza virus transmission. We have also observed that the same situation may exist for H5 low-pathogenicity avian influenza (LPAI) virus. No data are available regarding the protection afforded by commercial inactivated vaccines against H5 LPAI virus infection in ducks, and two preliminary experiments using commercial inactivated vaccines gave poor results. Virus-like particles (VLPs) have been shown to be immunogenic in different species. With regard to the influenza model, the matrix (M) protein has been shown to be necessary for the formation of VLPs. In order to attempt to develop a VLP influenza vaccine expressing hemagglutinin and neuraminidase (NA) of interest, we generated a triple recombinant baculovirus (rB) expressing three structural proteins: H5, N3, and M, derived from a recent French LPAI virus strain. Although the three proteins were successfully expressed in rB-infected cells and displayed the expected biological activity, no VLPs were observed. Despite this result, the protection afforded to ducks by rB-infected cell lysates was assessed and was compared with the protection afforded by an inactivated commercial H5N9 vaccine. For this purpose, specific-pathogen-free Muscovy ducks (15 per group) received rB-infected cell lysates (3 wk apart), while a second group received the H5N9 vaccine. Ten days after the boost, a homologous virus challenge was implemented. Both vaccines induced positive hemagglutination inhibition titers and M immune response, whereas lysates of rB-infected cells elicited NA immune response. Tracheal and cloacal sheddings were measured using M-based real-time-reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and were compared with the sheddings of vaccinated and unvaccinated infected controls. Lysates of rB-infected cells afforded a significant decrease of cloacal shedding and a delayed peak of tracheal shedding, whereas the inactivated commercial vaccine afforded a significant decrease of tracheal shedding only.
Therapeutic potential of a fully human monoclonal antibody against influenza A virus M2 protein.	Influenza is one of the most prevalent viral diseases in humans. For some high-risk human populations, including the infant, the elderly, and the immunocompromised, who may not benefit from active immunization, passive immunotherapy with antibodies reactive with all influenza A strains may be an alternative. In this study, we characterized several fully human monoclonal antibodies (MAb) reactive with M2e, which were generated from transchromosomic mice engineered to produce fully human antibodies following immunization with a consensus-sequence M2e peptide. The MAbs showed strong binding to M2e peptide and to virus infected MDCK cells. One MAb recognizing the highly conserved N-terminal portion of consensus M2e displayed high binding to the majority of M2e variants from natural viral isolates, including highly pathogenic avian strains, which were recently reported to infect humans. Passive immunotherapy with this MAb in mice resulted in significant reduction in virus replication in the lung and protection from lethal infection when administered either prophylactically or therapeutically. These results suggest the potential of the anti-M2e human MAb with broad binding spectrum as a universal passive immunotherapeutic agent to infection by influenza A virus.
CD137-guided isolation and expansion of antigen-specific CD8 cells for potential use in adoptive immunotherapy.	The efficient isolation and ex vivo expansion of antigen-specific T cells are crucial for successful adoptive immunotherapy against uncontrollable infections and cancers. Several methods have been reported for this purpose, for example, employing MHC-multimeric complexes, interferon-gamma secretion, and antibodies specific for molecules expressed on T-cell surfaces, including CD25, CD69, CD107a, CD137, and CD154. Of the latter, CD137 has been shown to be one of the most promising targets since it is only expressed on CD8(+) T cells early after encountering antigen, while being almost undetectable on resting cells. However, detailed comparisons between CD137-based and other methods have not yet been conducted. In this study, we therefore compared three approaches (with CD137, CD107a, and tetramers) using HLA-A24-restricted CMV pp65 and EBV BRLF1 epitopes as model antigens. We found that the CD137-based isolation of antigen-stimulated CD8(+) T cells was comparable to tetramer-based sorting in terms of purity and superior to the other two methods in terms of subsequent cell expansion. The method was less applicable to CD4(+) T cells since their CD137 upregulation is not sufficiently high. Collectively, this approach is most likely to be optimal among the methods tested for the isolation and expansion of antigen-specific CD8(+) cells.
Rapid identification and sorting of viable virus-reactive CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells based on antigen-triggered CD137 expression.	Current methods for the detection and isolation of antigen-specific CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells require the availability of peptide/MHC multimers or are restricted to cells that produce cytokines after antigen contact. Here we show that de novo cell surface expression of the TNF-receptor family member CD137 (4-1BB) identifies recently activated, but not resting, human CD4(+) and CD8(+) memory T cells. Maximum CD137 expression level is uniformly observed in both T-cell subsets at 24h after stimulation with antigen. In experiments with CMV and EBV-reactive T cells, we confirmed the specificity of CD137 expression by co-staining with peptide/HLA tetramers. Substantial proportions of CD137(+) T cells did not produce IFN-gamma, suggesting that CD137 detects a broader repertoire of antigen-specific T cells. Activated CD137(+) T cells could be easily purified by MACS and expanded in vitro thereafter. This CD137-based enrichment method was capable of isolating 2-fold higher numbers of anti-viral CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells compared to the IFN-gamma secretion assay. In conclusion, antigen-triggered CD137 expression allows the rapid detection and sorting of virus-reactive CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells. The CD137 assay is most attractive for the simultaneous targeting of anti-viral T helper and effector cells in monitoring studies and adoptive immunotherapy trials.
An M2e-based multiple antigenic peptide vaccine protects mice from lethal challenge with divergent H5N1 influenza viruses.	A growing concern has raised regarding the pandemic potential of the highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) H5N1 viruses. Consequently, there is an urgent need to develop an effective and safe vaccine against the divergent H5N1 influenza viruses. In the present study, we designed a tetra-branched multiple antigenic peptide (MAP)-based vaccine, designated M2e-MAP, which contains the sequence overlapping the highly conserved extracellular domain of matrix protein 2 (M2e) of a HPAI H5N1 virus, and investigated its immune responses and cross-protection against different clades of H5N1 viruses.
Dynamic regulation of functionally distinct virus-specific T cells.	The functional capacities of CD8(+) T cells important for virus clearance are influenced by interactions with antigen presenting cells (APCs) and CD4(+) T cells during initial selection, subsequent expansion, and development of memory. Recently, investigators have shown that polyfunctional T cells correlate best with long-term protection, however, it is still unknown how to stimulate T cells to achieve these responses. To study this, we examined the phenotypes and functions of CD8(+) T cells specific for two different virus antigens stimulated ex vivo using either autologous monocyte-derived dendritic cells (moDCs) or HLA-A2-Ig-based artificial APCs (aAPCs). Although similar numbers of influenza virus and measles virus tetramer-positive cells were generated by stimulation with peptide-loaded moDCs and aAPCs, T cell function, assessed by expression of IL-2, IFN-gamma, TNF-alpha, MIP1beta, and CD107a, showed that aAPC-generated CD8(+) T cells were multifunctional, whereas moDC-generated cells were mostly monofunctional. aAPC-generated cells also produced more of each cytokine per cell than CD8(+) T cells generated with moDCs. These phenotypes were not fixed, as changing the culture conditions of expanding T cells from aAPCs to moDCs, and moDCs to aAPCs, reversed the phenotypes. We conclude that CD8(+) T cells are heterogeneous in their functionality and that this is dependent, in a dynamic way, on the stimulating APC. These studies will lead to understanding the factors that influence induction of optimal CD8(+) T cell function.
Influenza A viruses: why focusing on M2e-based universal vaccines.	The threat of highly virulent avian influenza, such as H5N1 and swine-origin H1N1 influenza viruses, bring out an urgent need to develop a universal influenza vaccine, which may provide cross-protection against different strain of influenza A viruses. The extra-domain of influenza M2 protein (M2e), which is almost completely conserved among all subtypes of influenza A viruses, is considered as a promising candidate target for the development of a broad-spectrum recombinant influenza A vaccine. The results of several preclinical studies with M2e protein, with or without carriers, have already proved the successful protection of M2e-based vaccinated animal model against lethal challenge of heterologous and homologous influenza A viruses. Recently, the results of Phase I/II clinical trail studies with M2e-based vaccines have raised hopes for considering these vaccines against seasonal and pandemic influenza A strains. Hence, it is expected that more and more effective and safe universal influenza vaccines based on M2e will be developed for prevention of seasonal and pandemic influenza in the near future.
Influenza virus-like particles containing M2 induce broadly cross protective immunity.	Current influenza vaccines based on the hemagglutinin protein are strain specific and do not provide good protection against drifted viruses or emergence of new pandemic strains. An influenza vaccine that can confer cross-protection against antigenically different influenza A strains is highly desirable for improving public health.
Marburg virus VP40 antagonizes interferon signaling in a species-specific manner.	Marburgviruses are zoonotic pathogens that cause lethal hemorrhagic fever in humans and nonhuman primates. However, they do not cause lethal disease in immunocompetent mice unless they are adapted to this species. The adaptation process can therefore provide insight into the specific virus-host interactions that determine virulence. In primate cells, the Lake Victoria marburgvirus Musoke strain (MARV) VP40 matrix protein antagonizes alpha/beta interferon (IFN-α/β) and IFN-γ signaling by inhibiting the activation of the cellular tyrosine kinase Jak1. Here, VP40 from the Ravn strain (RAVV VP40)-from a distinct Marburg virus clade-is demonstrated to also inhibit IFN signaling in human cells. However, neither MARV nor RAVV VP40 effectively inhibited IFN-signaling in mouse cells, as assessed by assays of the antiviral effects of IFN-α/β and the IFN-α/β-induced phosphorylation of Jak1, STAT1, and STAT2. In contrast, the VP40 from a mouse-adapted RAVV (maRAVV) did inhibit IFN signaling. Effective Jak1 inhibition correlated with the species from which the cells were derived and did not depend upon whether Jak1 was of human or mouse origin. Of the seven amino acid changes that accumulated in VP40 during mouse adaptation, two (V57A and T165A) are sufficient to allow efficient IFN signaling antagonism by RAVV VP40 in mouse cells. The same two changes also confer efficient IFN antagonist function upon MARV VP40 in mouse cells. The mouse-adaptive changes did not affect the budding of RAVV VP40 in mouse cells, suggesting that this second major function of VP40 did not undergo adaptation. These data identify an apparent determinant of RAVV host range and virulence and define specific genetic determinants of this function.
Comparison of the performance of polymerase chain reaction and pp65 antigenemia for the detection of human cytomegalovirus in immunosuppressed patients.	Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) is often reactive in latently infected immunosuppressed patients. Accordingly, HCMV remains one of the most common infections following solid organ and hemopoietic stem cell transplantations, resulting in significant morbidity, graft loss and occasional mortality. The early diagnosis of HCMV disease is important in immunosuppressed patients, since in these individuals, preemptive treatment is useful. The objective of this study was to compare the performance of the in-house qualitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and pp65 antigenemia to HCMV infection in immunosuppressed patients in the Hospital de Clínicas of Porto Alegre (HCPA).
Primary response against cytomegalovirus during antiviral prophylaxis with valganciclovir, in solid organ transplant recipients.	Antiviral prophylaxis has proved successful for prevention of cytomegalovirus (CMV) disease in solid organ transplant (SOT) patients; though emerging data suggest that antiviral agents interfere with immunity, and may inhibit immune priming. In this context, we investigated levels and phenotype of primary CMV-specific immune responses that developed during antiviral prophylaxis in a cohort of CMV seronegative recipients (R(-) ) of a SOT from a seropositive donor (D(+) ). We longitudinally monitored CMV viral load, antibodies and levels of the negative immuno-modulator IL-10. PBMC were stimulated with CMV-specific peptide libraries to measure CD137 activation marker on CMV-specific T-cells and levels of PD-1 receptor, which is over expressed on exhausted T-cells. Unexpectedly, the majority (13/18) of D(+) R(-) patients who developed a primary CMV response showed early post-transplant CMV-specific responses, though levels of PD-1 on CMV-specific T-cells remained elevated throughout prophylaxis. A strong inverse association was found between levels of plasma IL-10 and CMV-specific cellular immune responses. Our study suggests that during prophylaxis, subclinical CMV infection might have occurred in the D(+) R(-) patients, and primary CMV-specific responses were detected early post-transplant when levels of plasma IL-10 were low. Extended prophylaxis or antiviral treatment did not appear to suppress CMV-specific antibodies or T-cells, which, however, showed exhaustion phenotypes.
Detection of EBV-LMP1 antibodies in sera and clinical significance in the patients with nasopharyngeal carcinoma]	To detect the levels of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) latent membrane protein 1 Antibodies (LMP1-Ab) in nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC)sera and discuss the clinical significance of this test in diagnosis, prognosis, and immune-targeted therapy of NPC.
Influenza M1 VLPs containing neuraminidase induce heterosubtypic cross-protection.	Influenza virus like particles (VLPs) containing hemagglutinin were previously demonstrated to induce protection against the homologous strains. However, little information is available on the protective role of neuraminidase (NA), the second major glycoprotein. In this study, we developed VLPs (NA VLPs) containing NA and M1 derived from A/PR/8/34 (H1N1) influenza virus, and investigated their ability to induce protective immunity. Intranasal immunization with NA VLPs induced serum antibody responses to H1N1 and H3N2 influenza A viruses as well as significant neuraminidase inhibition activity. Importantly, mice immunized with NA VLPs were 100% protected against lethal infection by the homologous A/PR/8/34 (H1N1) as well as heterosubtypic A/Philippines/82 (H3N2) virus, although body weight loss was observed after lethal challenge with heterosubtypic H3N2 virus. The present study therefore provides evidence that influenza VLPs containing M1 and NA are capable of inducing immunity to homologous as well as antigenically distinct influenza A virus strains.
A novel peptide carrier for efficient targeting of antigens and nucleic acids to dendritic cells.	Dendritic cells (DCs) initiate host immune responses by presenting captured antigens to naive T cells. Hence, DC-binding peptides may be used for antigen targeting to boost naive and memory immune responses. By biopanning peptide phage libraries on human monocyte-derived DCs, we identified novel DC-binding peptides. One of the selected phages, displaying the NW peptide (NWYLPWLGTNDW), bound DCs with high affinity, and its binding was inhibited by the corresponding synthetic peptide. Antigenic peptides or proteins conjugated to the NW peptide bound to DCs and were internalized without negative effects on DC phenotype and function. Ex vivo targeted delivery of CMV-pp65 peptides to DCs via the NW peptide increased T-cell responses in HLA-A2(+)/CMV(+) donors compared to untargeted peptides (P<0.001). Stimulation of CD45RO-depleted peripheral blood mononuclear cells from CMV(-) donors with the NW-pp65 fusion peptides expanded pp65-specific precursor T cells. Moreover, the NW peptide mediated small interfering RNA delivery to DCs, and a significant gene silencing was obtained. Collectively, the data reveal that proteins and nucleic acids can be directed to DCs through the NW peptide, enabling effective uptake and functional effects such as T-cell activation in the context of MHC class I and II molecules.
Suppression of cytomegalovirus-specific CD8(+)T cells by everolimus.	Abstract Everolimus (RAD-001) has recently been used as an immunosuppressive drug to treat patients after hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT), thereby reducing cyclosporine-related nephrotoxicity. We studied the immunomodulatory effect of everolimus on mitogen-stimulated and particularly cytomegalovirus (CMV)-specific cytotoxic T cells. Proliferation of CD4(+) and CD8(+) T cells stimulated with staphylococcal endotoxin B and phytohemagglutinin was strongly inhibited at very low doses. Proliferation of CMV-specific CD8(+) T cells could be completely suppressed. Similarly, the frequency of CMV-specific, cytokine-secreting and CD137-expressing CD8(+) T cells decreased in a dose-dependent manner. However, interferon-γ (IFN-γ) secretion by CMV-specific CD8(+) T cells remained unchanged, as could be demonstrated by intracellular cytokine staining. As reactivation of CMV plays a pivotal role in the outcome of patients after HSCT, attention must be paid to early detection and preemptive treatment of CMV reactivity in patients treated with everolimus. 
Molecular determinants of susceptibility to oncolytic vesicular stomatitis virus in pancreatic adenocarcinoma.	M protein mutant vesicular stomatitis virus (M51R-VSV) has oncolytic properties against many cancers. However, some cancer cells are resistant to M51R-VSV. Herein, we evaluate the molecular determinants of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) resistance in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cells.
Serum antibody response to matrix protein 2 following natural infection with 2009 pandemic influenza A(H1N1) virus in humans.	Natural infection-induced humoral immunity to matrix protein 2 (M2) of influenza A viruses in humans is not fully understood. Evidence suggests that anti-M2 antibody responses following influenza A virus infection are weak and/or transient. We show that the seroprevalence of anti-M2 antibodies increased with age in 317 serum samples from healthy individuals in the United States in 2007-2008. Infection with 2009 pandemic H1N1 influenza A virus (A[H1N1]pdm09) elicited a recall serum antibody response to M2 protein of A(H1N1)pdm09 in 47% of the affected 118 individuals tested. Anti-M2 antibody responses were more robust among individuals with preexisting antibodies to M2 protein. Moreover, the antibodies induced as a result of infection with A(H1N1)pdm09 were cross-reactive with M2 protein of seasonal influenza A viruses. These results emphasize the need to further investigate the possible roles of anti-M2 antibodies in human influenza A virus infection. 
Screening and identification of T helper 1 and linear immunodominant antibody-binding epitopes in spike 1 domain and membrane protein of feline infectious peritonitis virus.	Feline infectious peritonitis virus (FIP virus: FIPV) causes a fatal disease in wild and domestic cats. The development of an FIP-preventive vaccine requires an antigen that does not induce antibody-dependent enhancement, and T helper (Th)1 activity plays an important role in protect against FIPV infection. In the present study, we identified synthetic peptides including Th1 and a linear immunodominant antibody-binding epitope in the S1 domain and M protein of FIPV. We also identified peptides that strongly induce Th1 activity from those derived from the structural proteins (S, M, and N proteins) of FIPV based on this and previous studies (Satoh et al. [19]). No Th1 epitope-containing peptide was identified in the peptides derived from the S1 domain of type I FIPV. In contrast, 7 Th1 epitope-containing peptides were identified in the S1 domain of type II FIPV, and no linear immunodominant antibody-binding epitope was contained in any of these peptides. Eleven Th1 epitope-containing peptides common to each serotype were identified in the M protein-derived peptides, and 2 peptides (M-11 and M-12) contained the linear immunodominant antibody-binding epitope. Of the peptides derived from the S, M, and N proteins of FIPV, those that induced significantly stronger Th1 activity than that of the FIPV antigen were rescreened, and 4 peptides were identified. When 3 of these peptides (M-9, I-S2-15, and II-S1-24) were selected and administered with CpG-ODNs to SPF cats, M-9 and II-S1-24 induced Th1 activity. Our results may provide important information for the development of a peptide-based vaccine against FIPV infection. 
Influenza A virus M2 protein: monoclonal antibody restriction of virus growth and detection of M2 in virions.	The influenza A virus M2 protein is an integral membrane protein of 97 amino acids that is expressed at the surface of infected cells with an extracellular N-terminal domain of 18 to 23 amino acid residues, an internal hydrophobic domain of approximately 19 residues, and a C-terminal cytoplasmic domain of 54 residues. To gain an understanding of the M2 protein function in the influenza virus replicative pathway, we produced and characterized a monoclonal antibody to M2. The antibody-binding site was located to the extracellular N terminus of M2 as shown by the loss of recognition after proteolysis at the infected-cell surface, which removes 18 N-terminal residues, and by the finding that the antibody recognizes M2 in cell surface fluorescence. The epitope was further defined to involve residues 11 and 14 by comparing the predicted amino acid sequences of M2 from several avian and human strains and the ability of the M2 protein to be recognized by the antibody. The M2-specific monoclonal antibody was used in a sensitive immunoblot assay to show that M2 protein could be detected in virion preparations. Quantitation of the amount of M2 associated with virions by two unrelated methods indicated that in the virion preparations used there are 14 to 68 molecules of M2 per virion. The monoclonal antibody, when included in a plaque assay overlay, considerably showed the growth of some influenza virus strains. This plaque size reduction is a specific effect for the M2 antibody as determined by an analysis of recombinants with defined genome composition and by the observation that competition by an N-terminal peptide prevents the antibody restriction of virus growth.
Heat treatment improves antigen-specific T cell activation after protein delivery by several but not all yeast genera.	A central prerequisite in using yeast as antigen carrier in vaccination is its efficient interaction with cellular components of the innate immune system, mainly mediated by cell surface structures. Here, we investigated the distribution of major yeast cell wall components such as mannan, β-glucan and chitin of four different and likewise biotechnologically relevant yeasts (Saccharomyces, Pichia, Kluyveromyces and Schizosaccharomyces) and analyzed the influence of heat-treatment on β-1,3-glucan exposure at the outer yeast cell surface as well as the amount of yeast induced reactive oxygen species (ROS) production by antigen presenting cells (APC) in human blood. We found that yeasts significantly differ in the distribution of their cell wall components and that heat-treatment affected both, cell wall composition and yeast-induced ROS production by human APCs. We further show that heat-treatment modulates the activation of antigen specific memory T cells after yeast-mediated protein delivery in different ways and thus provide additional support of using yeast as vehicle for the development of novel T cell vaccines. 
Identification of a DTH-inducing T-cell epitope on the E2 membrane protein of Semliki Forest virus.	Mapping of T-cell epitopes on the structural proteins of Semliki Forest virus (SFV) was performed by measuring the ability of cloned SFV protein fragments to induce delayed-type hypersensitivity (DTH). The cloned SFV protein fragments were expressed as hybrid proteins with cro-beta-galactosidase in Escherichia coli from constructed recombinant plasmids. DTH reactions were measured, as footpad swelling, in BALB/c mice after immunization with whole, UV-inactivated SFV and challenge with the hybrid proteins, and vice versa, using the adjuvant dimethyl dioctadecyl ammonium bromide to enhance DTH. Only two of the tested hybrid proteins induced DTH, and these DTH reactions were equally strong. The largest DTH-inducing hybrid protein contained the N-terminal 350 amino acids of E2 and part of E3, the smallest contained only the region from amino acid residues 115 to 151 of the E2 membrane protein without any other SFV protein parts. It was concluded that the segment between amino acid residues 115 and 151 of the E2 membrane protein of SFV was responsible for the observed DTH, and thus, contains a T-cell epitope. Sequence homology with known T-cell epitopes on other proteins makes it likely that the DTH-inducing T-cell epitope is located from amino acid residues 120 to 128 of E2.
Antigenicity, function, and conformation of synthetic oligopeptides corresponding to amino-terminal sequences of wild-type and mutant matrix proteins of vesicular stomatitis virus.	The matrix (M) protein of vesicular stomatitis virus (VSV) has a major antigenic determinant (epitope 1) that maps to a region extending from amino acids 19 through 43 and transcription-inhibition activity that maps to the first 43 N-terminal amino acids (J.R. Ogden, R. Pal, and R. R. Wagner, J. Virol. 58:860-868, 1986). The M protein of temperature-sensitive mutant tsO23(III) is devoid of epitope 1 and transcription-inhibition activity and substitutes glutamic acid for glycine at amino acid 21 as well as having amino acid substitutions at positions 111 and 227 (K. Morita, R. Vanderoef, and J. Lenard, J. Virol. 61:256-263, 1987). We undertook to map more precisely epitope 1 and the transcription-inhibition region of VSV M protein by means of synthetic oligopeptides generated by an automated solid-phase protein synthesizer. A pentadecapeptide designated PI(wt, Gly21), corresponding to amino acids 17 to 31 of wild-type (wt) M protein, strongly bound monoclonal antibody MAb2 (directed to epitope 1); however, an analogous pentadecapeptide with glutamic acid substituted for glycine at position 21, designated PII(tsO23, Glu21), completely failed to recognize MAb2. Polyclonal antibody raised in rabbits immunized with PI(wt, Gly21) reacted strongly with wt M protein, the homologous pentadecapeptide, and, to a lesser extent, PII(tsO23, Glu21). Anti-PII(tsO23, Glu21) failed to recognize PI(wt, Gly21) or wt M protein. Anti-PI(wt, Gly21) competed efficiently for binding of MAb2 to wt M protein and was as effective as MAb2 in reversing inhibition of VSV transcription by wt M protein. Neither PI(wt, Gly21) nor PII(tsO23, Glu21) exhibited any ability to inhibit VSV transcription. However, a lysine-rich oligopeptide, PII(Met1-Leu20), corresponding to the first 20 N-terminal amino acids of wt M protein, and polylysine itself did inhibit VSV transcription, albeit much less efficiently than native wt M protein. Monospecific polyclonal antibody directed to the 20-mer oligopeptide PIII(Met1-Leu20) reversed transcription inhibition by M protein in a dose-dependent manner almost identical to that of anti-PI(wt, Gly21) and epitope 1-specific MAb2. Examination by circular dichroism spectropolarimetry revealed significant differences in the conformation of the two pentadecapeptides attributable to the Gly in equilibrium Glu amino acid substitution at position 21.
Strain variation of respiratory syncytial virus.	Western blotting and immunoperoxidase staining with monoclonal antibodies were employed to analyse epitopic and polypeptide molecular weight variation among isolates of respiratory syncytial (RS) virus collected in Newcastle between 1965 and 1986. One group of isolates resembled the A2 and Long prototype subgroup A strains of RS virus in possessing a P protein of Mr 34,000. Isolates in this subgroup showed two patterns of reactivity with subgroup A-specific monoclonal antibodies to the G glycoprotein and 22K protein. Isolates with both reactivity patterns were isolated throughout the period studied. Isolates in the second group resembled the 8/60 subgroup B prototype strain in their lack of reactivity to subgroup A-specific monoclonal antibodies but were heterogeneous in P protein molecular weight. The earliest isolate only, made in 1965, possessed a P protein of Mr 31,000 resembling the prototype strain. All subsequent subgroup B isolates possessed a higher Mr, 33,000, P protein. Overall, subgroup A viruses were isolated most frequently although subgroup B strains may have predominated in some epidemics.
Binding motifs predict major histocompatibility complex class II-restricted epitopes in the Sendai virus M protein.	Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I ligand motifs have been defined for a number of class I molecules and have been successfully used to identify class I-restricted cytotoxic T-cell epitopes. In contrast, the relative degeneracy of sequence motifs in naturally processed MHC class II ligands has suggested that they may be of more limited use. Here, we use a predicted I-Ab ligand motif to identify antigenic peptides in the Sendai virus Enders strain matrix (M) protein. The entire coding sequence of the M protein was derived, and seven peptide sequences that contained the predicted I-Ab motif were identified. Analysis of I-Ab-restricted M-specific T-cell hybridomas for reactivity to these synthetic peptides identified two distinct epitopes. These data demonstrate that MHC class II motifs can be valuable in predicting T-cell epitopes.
Characterization of cytotoxic T lymphocyte epitopes of a self-protein, p53, and a non-self-protein, influenza matrix: relationship between major histocompatibility complex peptide binding affinity and immune responsiveness to peptides.	We previously described a motif prediction of major histocompatibility complex allele-specific peptides and an in vitro assay for actual measurement of peptide binding to human leukocyte antigen HLA-A2.1 molecules. Using this method we have identified candidate cytotoxic T lymphocyte (CTL) epitopes derived from a non-self-protein (influenza matrix) and self-protein (p53). We now show that results of binding assays performed over a range of peptide concentrations indicate that distinct differences in HLA-A2.1 peptide binding affinities exist between the influenza matrix and p53 protein. The results for the influenza matrix protein indicate that the peptide that shows the highest binding affinity to HLA-A2.1 is identical to the known immunodominant peptide recognized by influenza virus-specific CTLs. The results for p53 indicate that one of the peptides with a low binding affinity is capable of inducing specific CTL responses, but CTLs recognizing the highest affinity binding peptides were not obtained. These findings are discussed in terms of the distinct implications for induction of cellular immune responses directed against peptides with different binding affinities for HLA-A2.1 of proteins that constitute attractive targets for tumor immunotherapy.
The presence of cytomegalovirus antigens in karyotyped abortions.	About one out of six pregnancies ends in spontaneous abortion before the 17th week. In more than half of these a chromosome abnormality is present, which explains the abortion. The role of cytomegalovirus (CMV) infections in early pregnancy failure is unclear. If there is a role for CMV, a preponderance of infections would be expected in a chromosomally normal group.
Cellular mechanisms of exogenous peptide binding to HLA class II molecules in B cells.	We have investigated the ability of APC Class II molecules to bind and release exogenous peptides, two phenomena that are still poorly understood. In order to investigate the half-life of the complex of an exogenous peptide with DR molecules we have evaluated the uptake and release of the radiolabeled peptide 17-29-Tyr of influenza virus matrix protein (MA 17-29-Y) by a B-EBV cell line at different times and under different conditions. We have found that the kinetics of both binding and release of the peptide are very fast in living cells; using glutaraldehyde-fixed cells, the kinetics of the two phenomena are slow, closely resembling those observed with the same peptide and purified, immobilized DR molecules. As confirmed by the study of a specific T-cell clone activation, the Class II-MA 17-29-Y complexes are short-living ones, with an average half-life of 55 min, and the DR molecules that bind exogenous peptides continuously undergo peptidic exchange. These data, taken together, suggest that the APC are endowed with cellular mechanisms that increase the efficiency of both the loading and the unloading of Class II HLA with exogenous peptides. These mechanisms do not appear to require ATP or to involve newly synthesized Class II molecules, intracellular acidic compartments, or the microtubule-microfilament system. On the other hand, an undamaged cell membrane appears to be crucial for an efficient binding.
Superoxide anion production in influenza protein-activated NADPH oxidase of human polymorphonuclear leukocytes.	There are conflicting reports regarding superoxide anion (O2-) production by human polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNL) that have been activated by influenza virus. In the present study, the output of O2- was determined by measuring superoxide dismutase-inhibitable cytochrome c reduction. Incubation of PMNL with purified influenza matrix (M) protein, neuraminidase (NA), or hemagglutinin (HA) enhanced the production of O2-: 4.93 nmol of O2-/4 x 10(5) cells/15 min was produced with M protein, 5.20 with NA, and 6.89 with HA. These values were significantly higher (P < .05) than that for untreated PMNL (1.51). Both nonglycosylated and glycosylated proteins had the potential to generate O2- in human PMNL. Neither the hemagglutinating activity of HA nor the enzymatic activity of NA were necessary for viral protein activation of PMNL.
Two processing pathways for the MHC class II-restricted presentation of exogenous influenza virus antigen.	The natural Ag influenza virus A was used to test the requirements for the HLA-DR1-restricted presentation of the epitopes 18-29 in the matrix protein and 307-318 in the hemagglutinin protein. CD4+ cytotoxic T cell clones of similar efficiency were used to detect presentation of these two epitopes. Presentation of the matrix epitope by APC pulsed with either inactivated virus particles or purified soluble protein followed the classical pathway in that 1) it required invariant chain expression, 2) it was blocked by inhibition of protein synthesis, and 3) it was dependent on a function(s) encoded in the MHC class II region. These characteristics suggest that peptides corresponding to the matrix epitope can only load onto newly synthesized class II molecules that were targeted to a processing compartment by the invariant chain. In contrast, presentation of the hemagglutinin epitope processed from virus particles followed a different pathway. First, presentation of hemagglutinin was independent of invariant chain expression. Second, a human B lymphoblastoid cell line in which protein synthesis was inhibited for 9 h was still able to present hemagglutinin even at very low doses of Ag. Third, a DR1-transfected mutant B cell line missing the MHC class II region was able to present hemagglutinin. Thus, mature class II alpha beta molecules can acquire immunogenic peptides derived from intact natural Ags for presentation to CD4+ T cells. This pathway may be useful for the binding of peptides derived from Ags that are rapidly degraded upon uptake into APC.
Residues outside of the HLA-A2 peptide-binding groove can abrogate or enhance recognition of influenza virus matrix peptide pulsed cells by cytotoxic T lymphocytes.	An examination of the crystal structure of HLA-A2.1 reveals two classes of residues on the class I MHC molecule that could affect CTL recognition: (1) those predicted to interact with the TCR directly; and (2) those that interact with bound peptides. To examine the role of individual TCR contacting residues, as well as residues not predicted to interact with bound peptide or the TCR, a panel of 28 HLA-A2 variants that differ from each other by a single amino acid substitution in either the alpha 1- or alpha 2-domain was utilized. Peptide titration, time course and cold target inhibition analysis of these targets showed that only the substitution of position 62 in the alpha 1-domain had a significant effect on recognition of the MHC-peptide complex by influenza matrix protein M1 (57-68) peptide-specific, HLA-A2.1-restricted CTL. In contrast, substitutions at positions 154, 162 and 163 in the alpha 2-domain abolished recognition by the same CTL. Additionally, substitutions at position 138 in the alpha 2-domain and positions 107 and 127 on the loops connecting the beta-strand in the alpha 2-domain were recognized in a more efficient, heteroclitic fashion. Overall, there was no direct correlation between the level of peptide binding to the variants and the level of T cell recognition of the variants. These results indicate that residues in the alpha 2-domain may be more important than residues in the alpha 1-domain in controlling TCR binding to the class I MHC molecule and suggest that the "footprint" of the TCR may be more extensive than previously predicted and encompass a broad region that extends beyond the alpha 2-helix. These findings also imply that the class I MHC molecule may exist in a "tipped" orientation on the cell surface during T cell recognition.
Both major and minor peptide-binding pockets in HLA-A2 influence the presentation of influenza virus matrix peptide to cytotoxic T lymphocytes.	Most of the polymorphic residues in class I MHC molecules are concentrated in the alpha 1- and alpha 2-domains with their side chains pointing towards the antigen peptide site. Previous crystal structure analysis revealed six pockets inside the peptide-binding groove and the "extra" electron density in some of the pockets indicated that the pockets are involved in direct peptide binding. In order to investigate the functional role of individual positions from each pocket in antigen presentation, 37 HLA-A2 variants with single amino acid substitution in the peptide-binding groove were generated and used to analyse the specificity of influenza A virus matrix peptide-specific, HLA-A2-restricted CTL. The ability to present peptide by each variant was studied in detail by peptide titration, cold target inhibition, time course and limiting dilution analysis. The direct effect on peptide binding by these substitutions was determined by cell surface class I MHC molecule reconstitution analysis. The results demonstrated that each of the six peptide binding pockets plays a role in T cell recognition. Substitutions introduced into pocket F had less effect on CTL recognition than substitutions introduced in other pockets. With the exception of Tyr substitution for Phe9, single amino acid substitutions in the peptide-binding groove had only minor effects on peptide binding. Therefore, the impact of the substitutions in altering the epitopes recognized by CTL seems to be mediated through an alteration in the conformation of the bound peptide.
Preliminary characterization of a monoclonal antibody specific for a viral 27 kD glycoprotein family synthesized in porcine epidemic diarrhoea virus infected cells.	We describe a new monoclonal antibody No. 204 (mcAb 204) which recognized a family of four polypeptides, consisting of a 27kD, a 24/23kD double band and a 19kD protein present within PEDV infected cell lysates. These proteins were identified by immunoprecipitation as well as by staining of immunoblots. In infected Vero cell cultures, the synthesis of the 27kD protein was initiated between 6 and 8 hours post inoculation. The 24/23kD double band and the 19kD protein were only detectable later. At least the 27 and the 24/23kD proteins were apparently glycosylated and present in purified virions. Pulse-chase as well as solubilization experiments indicated that the faster migrating bands represented processed products of the 27kD glycoprotein. The nature of the processing is not known at present. We suggest that the 27kD protein family may represent the integral membrane protein M of PEDV. Since this protein is highly abundant in virions as well as in infected cells, and since mcAb 204 is able to react with its antigen under various conditions, this monoclonal antibody may be useful to further studies of the M-protein of PEDV. In addition, it may provide a useful tool for routine diagnosis.
Structural proteins of avian infectious bronchitis virus: role in immunity and protection.	The antigenicity of the S1, M and N proteins of avian infectious bronchitis virus was compared following immunization of chickens with live and inactivated virus. The N protein was immunodominant antigen inducing cross-reactive antibodies in high titres whereas the S1 glycoprotein induced serotype-specific and cross-reactive antibodies. The M glycoprotein elicited antibodies in low titres and of limited cross-reactivity. Immunization of chickens with the purified N and M proteins did not induce protection against virulent challenge whereas immunization with the S1 glycoprotein prevented replication of nephropathogenic IBV in kidneys but not in tracheas of immunized chickens.
Detection of immunoglobulin G to a Sindbis-related virus by a membrane antigen enzyme immunoassay.	We determined the seroprevalence of a Sindbis-related virus isolated for the first time in 1975 from ticks in south-east Sicily and typed by Gresikova et al. in 1978. An indirect enzyme immunoassay based on viral membrane antigen for coating microtiter strips was used for the detection of immunoglobulin G to the Sindbis-related virus. The method appeared more sensitive than a similar enzyme immunoassay based on crude lysate antigen. Comparison of the results obtained from sera tested both by membrane antigen enzyme immunoassay and microneutralization test showed 92% agreement, while the agreement between microneutralization test and crude antigen enzyme immunoassay was 76%. An overall elevated seroprevalence (63.66%) was found in a population group living in and around the area of first isolation and seroprevalence in different age groups was also studied.
A bispecific antibody recognizing influenza A virus M2 protein redirects effector cells to inhibit virus replication in vitro.	Bispecific antibodies can be used to redirect cytotoxic T cells to kill virus-infected cells, overriding the need for major histocompatibility complex restriction. We produced a bispecific antibody (3F12) which binds influenza virus M2 protein and the T-cell receptor and can redirect staphylococcal enterotoxin B-activated T cells to kill influenza virus-infected cells and inhibit virus replication in vitro.
IgM antibody detection of ppUL80A and ppUL32 by immunoblotting: an early parameter for recurrent cytomegalovirus infection in renal transplant recipients.	The value of IgM detection for the early diagnosis of an active cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection in renal transplant recipients was evaluated prospectively. Sequential serum samples obtained from 22 allograft recipients with active CMV infection were tested for the presence of CMV-specific immunoglobulin M antibodies (IgM) by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and a microparticle enzyme immunoassay (MEIA) and were compared with the Western-immunoblotting technique (IB). The time course of CMV IgM antibody detection was evaluated in relation to the shell vial assay (SVA), CMV disease, and immunosuppressive regimen. By IB, IgM antibodies against the capsid protein ppUL80a and the basic matrix phosphoprotein ppUL32 were detected in all 22 recipients with active CMV infection. Using the MEIA and the ELISA, the presence of CMV IgM antibodies was detected in 17 (77%) and ten (46%) of these 22 recipients, respectively. The SVA was the earliest parameter for detection of primary CMV infection in seven of nine (78%) recipients, in contrast to two of 13 (15%) patients with recurrent CMV infection (P < .05). The detection of IgM antibodies by IB was the earliest parameter for detection of recurrent CMV infection in seven out of 13 (54%) recipients in contrast to one out of nine (11%) patients with primary CMV infection (P < .05). During a primary CMV infection, the development of an abundant IgM antibody response was associated with recovery from CMV disease and the end of the viremic phase.
The Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) major envelope glycoprotein gp350/220-specific antibody reactivities in the sera of patients with different EBV-associated diseases.	gp350 of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) induces a strong immune response in EBV-infected individuals, but relatively little is known about the clinical relevance of this response in patients with different EBV-associated malignancies and other diseases. Using our gp350-expressing cell clones, we studied gp350-specific humoral immune responses in the sera of individuals with nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC), chronic symptomatic EBV infection (CEI), Hodgkin's disease (HD), acute infectious mononucleosis (IM) and healthy EBV-seropositive individuals (HI). The titres of antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity (ADCC) antibodies were highest in HI followed by CEI, HD and NPC. EBV-neutralizing (NA) and gp350-specific IgG antibody profiles in these conditions were: CEI > HI > NPC > HD, whereas IgA titres were the highest in NPC sera followed by CEI and HD. The sera from IM patients were found to be negative for gp350-specific ADCC and IgA activities. Sera from HI were also negative for gp350-specific IgA. A significant positive correlation was found between serum gp350 IgA and viral capsid antigen IgA and a significant negative one between IgM and ADCC titres. High IgA titres were also found in CEI and EBV-genome positive HD in addition to NPC. Importantly, gp350-specific IgA titres were of prognostic value in NPC patients. Our data provide new insights about the clinical relevance of gp350-specific immune responses in these diseases.
Human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte repertoire to influenza A viruses.	The murine CD8(+) cytotoxic-T-lymphocyte (CTL) repertoire appears to be quite limited in response to influenza A viruses. The CTL responses to influenza A virus in humans were examined to determine if the CTL repertoire is also very limited. Bulk cultures revealed that a number of virus proteins were recognized in CTL assays. CTL lines were isolated from three donors for detailed study and found to be specific for epitopes on numerous influenza A viral proteins. Eight distinct CD8(+) CTL lines were isolated from donor 1. The proteins recognized by these cell lines included the nucleoprotein (NP), matrix protein (M1), nonstructural protein 1 (NS1), polymerases (PB1 and PB2), and hemagglutinin (HA). Two CD4(+) cell lines, one specific for neuraminidase (NA) and the other specific for M1, were also characterized. These CTL results were confirmed by precursor frequency analysis of peptide-specific gamma interferon-producing cells detected by ELISPOT. The epitopes recognized by 6 of these 10 cell lines have not been previously described; 8 of the 10 cell lines were cross-reactive to subtype H1N1, H2N2, and H3N2 viruses, 1 cell line was cross-reactive to subtypes H1N1 and H2N2, and 1 cell line was subtype H1N1 specific. A broad CTL repertoire was detected in the two other donors, and cell lines specific for the NP, NA, HA, M1, NS1, and M2 viral proteins were isolated. These findings indicate that the human memory CTL response to influenza A virus is broadly directed to epitopes on a wide variety of proteins, unlike the limited response observed following infection of mice.
