Algae -- a poor man's HAART?	Drawing inferences from epidemiologic studies of HIV/AIDS and in vivo and in vitro HIV inhibition by algae, we propose algal consumption as one unifying characteristic of countries with anomalously low rates. HIV/AIDS incidence and prevalence in Eastern Asia ( approximately 1/10000 adults in Japan and Korea), compared to Africa ( approximately 1/10 adults), strongly suggest that differences in IV drug use and sexual behavior are insufficient to explain the 1000-fold variation. Even in Africa, AIDS/HIV rates vary. Chad has consistently reported low rates of HIV/AIDS (2-4/100). Possibly not coincidentally, most people in Japan and Korea eat seaweed daily and the Kanemba, one of the major tribal groups in Chad, eat a blue green alga (Spirulina) daily. Average daily algae consumption in Asia and Africa ranges between 1 and 2 tablespoons (3-13 g). Regular consumption of dietary algae might help prevent HIV infection and suppress viral load among those infected.
A flexible B-spline model for multiple longitudinal biomarkers and survival.	Often when jointly modeling longitudinal and survival data, we are interested in a multivariate longitudinal measure that may not fit well by linear models. To overcome this problem, we propose a joint longitudinal and survival model that has a nonparametric model for the longitudinal markers. We use cubic B-splines to specify the longitudinal model and a proportional hazards model to link the longitudinal measures to the hazard. To fit the model, we use a Markov chain Monte Carlo algorithm. We select the number of knots for the cubic B-spline model using the Conditional Predictive Ordinate (CPO) and the Deviance Information Criterion (DIC). The method and model selection approach are validated in a simulation. We apply this method to examine the link between viral load, CD4 count, and time to event in data from an AIDS clinical trial. The cubic B-spline model provides a good fit to the longitudinal data that could not be obtained with simple parametric models.
Discordant responses to potent antiretroviral treatment in previously naive HIV-1-infected adults initiating treatment in resource-constrained countries: the antiretroviral therapy in low-income countries (ART-LINC) collaboration.	To assess the frequency of and risk factors for discordant responses at 6 months on highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in previously treatment-naive HIV patients from resource-limited countries.
Factors associated with virological response in women receiving highly-active antiretroviral prophylaxis for HIV-1 mother-to-child transmission]	Pregnancy is the only circumstance in HIV infection requiring urgent virological response to the antiviral approach because of the influence of plasma viral load (VL) on mother-to-child transmission (MCT) of the disease. This study analyzes factors related to the time needed to reach VL < 400 copies/mL during antiretroviral prophylaxis for MCT.
Use of a prescription-based measure of antiretroviral therapy adherence to predict viral rebound in HIV-infected individuals with viral suppression.	The aim of the study was to assess whether a simple, routinely available measure of antiretroviral therapy (ART) adherence predicts viral rebound at the next HIV viral load (VL) measurement in virally suppressed patients.
Does pre-liver transplant HBV DNA level affect HBV recurrence or survival in liver transplant recipients receiving HBIg and nucleos(t)ide analogues?	The risk of recurrent hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection and prognosis of liver transplantation in patients with HBV has dramatically changed with the use of prophylaxis including hepatitis B immune globulin (HBIg) and antiviral agents.
Current and past Epstein-Barr virus infection in risk of initial CNS demyelination.	To assess risk of a first clinical diagnosis of CNS demyelination (FCD) in relation to measures of Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection within the context of other known risk factors.
Disparities in HIV-treatment responses between Haitians, African Americans, and Hispanics living in Miami-Dade County, Florida.	Studies evaluating response to treatment with Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy (HAART) fail to examine Haitian patients living in the U.S. as a distinct group.
Test of a web-based program to improve adherence to HIV medications.	We evaluated the effectiveness of a web-based version of the Life-Steps intervention combined with modules for stress reduction and mood management, designed to improve medication adherence among HIV infected individuals. 168 HIV+ adults were randomized into either the Life-Steps program or a waitlist control condition. All participants completed a baseline assessment and provided a 2-week electronic pill (MEMS) cap baseline reading. Follow up data collection was conducted at 3, 6 and 9 months. Patients in the web-based Life-Steps condition had significantly higher antiretroviral medication adherence rates than patients in the control group over the nine-month period as measured by the MEMS cap. In addition, analysis of viral load data indicated that the program also resulted in a significant decrease in viral load. These findings indicate that a web-based Life-Steps program can be a useful and implementable tool for helping patients living with HIV maintain medication adherence.
To consider negative viral loads below the limit of quantification can lead to errors in the diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis C virus infection]	For years many clinical laboratories have routinely classified undetectable and unquantifiable levels of hepatitis C virus RNA (HCV-RNA) determined by RT-PCR as below limit of quantification (BLOQ). This practice might result in erroneous clinical decisions.
Genetic markers associated to dyslipidemia in HIV-infected individuals on HAART.	This study evaluated the impact of 9 single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in 6 candidate genes (APOB, APOA5, APOE, APOC3, SCAP, and LDLR) over dyslipidemia in HIV-infected patients on stable antiretroviral therapy (ART) with undetectable viral loads. Blood samples were collected from 614 patients at reference services in the cities of Porto Alegre, Pelotas, and Rio Grande in Brazil. The SNPs were genotyped by conventional polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and real-time PCR. The prevalence of dyslipidemia was particularly high among the protease inhibitors-treated patients (79%). APOE (rs429358 and rs7412) genotypes and APOA5 -1131T>C (rs662799) were associated with plasma triglycerides (TG) and low-density-lipoprotein cholesterol levels (LDL-C). The APOA5 -1131T>C (rs662799) and SCAP 2386A>G (rs12487736) polymorphisms were significantly associated with high-density-lipoprotein cholesterol levels. The mean values of the total cholesterol and LDL-C levels were associated with both the APOB SP Ins/Del (rs17240441) and APOB XbaI (rs693) polymorphisms. In conclusion, our data support the importance of genetic factors in the determination of lipid levels in HIV-infected individuals. Due to the relatively high number of carriers of these risk variants, studies to verify treatment implications of genotyping before HAART initiation may be advisable to guide the selection of an appropriate antiretroviral therapy regimen. 
