PAV1, the first virus-like particle isolated from a hyperthermophilic euryarchaeote, "Pyrococcus abyssi".	We describe the first virus-like particle of a hyperthermophilic euryarchaeote which was discovered in a strain of "Pyrococcus abyssi" previously characterized in our laboratory. This particle, named PAV1, is lemon-shaped (120 nm x 80 nm), with a short tail terminated by fibers, and resembles the virus SSV1, the type member of the Fuselloviridae, isolated from Sulfolobus shibatae. Sensitivity of the virus-like particle to organic solvents and detergents suggested that the envelope of PAV1 may contain lipids in addition to proteins. It contains a double-stranded circular DNA of 18 kb which is also present in high copy number in a free form in the host cytoplasm. No integrated form of the PAV1 genome could be detected in the host chromosome. Under standard growth conditions, the host cells continuously release PAV1 particles into the culture supernatant without spontaneous lysis, with a maximum reached in the late stationary phase. UV, gamma irradiation, treatment with mitomycin C, and various physiological stresses had no effect on PAV1 production. Screening of a large number of Thermococcales isolates did not permit to find a sensitive host. These results suggest that PAV1 persists in the host strain in a stable carrier state rather than a prophage.
Abundance and diversity of viruses in six Delaware soils.	The importance of viruses in marine microbial ecology has been established over the past decade. Specifically, viruses influence bacterial abundance and community composition through lysis and alter bacterial genetic diversity through transduction and lysogenic conversion. By contrast, the abundance and distribution of viruses in soils are almost completely unknown. This study describes the abundance and diversity of autochthonous viruses in six Delaware soils: two agricultural soils, two coastal plain forest soils, and two piedmont forest soils. Viral abundance was measured using epifluorescence microscopy, while viral diversity was assessed from morphological data obtained through transmission electron microscopy. Extracted soil virus communities were dominated by bacteriophages that demonstrated a wide range of capsid diameters (20 nm to 160 nm) and morphologies, including filamentous forms and phages with elongated capsids. The reciprocal Simpson's index suggests that forest soils harbor more diverse assemblages of viruses, particularly in terms of morphological distribution. Repeated extractions of virus-like particles (VLPs) from soils indicated that the initial round of extraction removes approximately 70% of extractable viruses. Higher VLP abundances were observed in forest soils (1.31 x 10(9) to 4.17 x 10(9) g(-1) dry weight) than in agricultural soils (8.7 x 10(8) to 1.1 x 10(9) g(-1) dry weight). Soil VLP abundance was significantly correlated to moisture content (r = 0.988) but not to soil texture. Land use (agricultural or forested) was significantly correlated to both bacterial (r = 0.885) and viral (r = 0.812) abundances, as were soil organic matter and water content. Thus, land use is a significant factor influencing viral abundance and diversity in soils.
Characterization of lytic Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteriophages via biological properties and genomic sequences.	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an important cause of infections, especially in patients with immunodeficiency or diabetes. Antibiotics are effective in preventing morbidity and mortality from Pseudomonas infection, but because of spreading multidrug-resistant bacterial strains, bacteriophages are being explored as an alternative therapy. Two newly purified broad host range Pseudomonas phages, named vB_Pae-Kakheti25 and vB_Pae-TbilisiM32, were characterized as candidates for use in phage therapy. Morphology, host range, growth properties, thermal stability, serology, genomic sequence, and virion composition are reported. When phages are used as bactericides, they are used in mixtures to overcome the development of resistance in the targeted bacterial population. These two phages are representative of diverse siphoviral and podoviral phage families, respectively, and hence have unrelated mechanisms of infection and no cross-antigenicity. Composing bactericidal phage mixtures with members of different phage families may decrease the incidence of developing resistance through a common mechanism.
The systematization of the nuclear polyhedrosis viruses by their morphological traits]	The results of studies on submicroscopic organization of nuclear polyhedrosis viruses (NPV) isolated from different species and populations of insects are presented. The following morphological criteria are proposed for NPV identification: the frequency of occurrence of polygenomic virions with definite number of nucleocapsids, the presence of electron-dense membrane on the surface of suprapolyvirion capsids (SPVC); total number of nucleocapsids inside one average SPVC of NPV. Analyses of morphometric maps of NPV infecting different species and populations of the same species of insects are presented.
