Raman spectroscopy: the gateway into tomorrow's virology.	In the molecular world, researchers act as detectives working hard to unravel the mysteries surrounding cells. One of the researchers' greatest tools in this endeavor has been Raman spectroscopy. Raman spectroscopy is a spectroscopic technique that measures the unique Raman spectra for every type of biological molecule. As such, Raman spectroscopy has the potential to provide scientists with a library of spectra that can be used to unravel the makeup of an unknown molecule. However, this technique is limited in that it is not able to manipulate particular structures without disturbing their unique environment. Recently, a novel technology that combines Raman spectroscopy with optical tweezers, termed Raman tweezers, evades this problem due to its ability to manipulate a sample without physical contact. As such, Raman tweezers has the potential to become an incredibly effective diagnostic tool for differentially distinguishing tissue, and therefore holds great promise in the field of virology for distinguishing between various virally infected cells. This review provides an introduction for a virologist into the world of spectroscopy and explores many of the potential applications of Raman tweezers in virology.
Biological safety in virological field with special considerations on class II biological safety cabinets]	The most critical point for the biosafety is not sophisticated devices or facilities, but education of workers and their compliance to the regulation. Appropriate devices should be carefully selected in the introduction of new devices, and they should be properly maintained. The class II biosafety cabinet is one of the delicate safety equipments. It should be kept adequately maintained throughout the lifetime of the cabinet to insure safety of the laboratory. For the maintenance, appropriate measuring equipments should be used by trained technicians. The recently enforced law for control of recombinant DNA researches should be applied for the handling of pathogens even in non-recombinant DNA researches after proper modifications.
Microbiology devices; reclassification of herpes simplex virus types 1 and 2 serological assays. Final rule.	The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is reclassifying herpes simplex virus (HSV) types 1 and/or 2 (HSV 1 and 2) serological assays from class III (premarket approval) to class II (special controls). FDA had earlier proposed this reclassification on its own initiative based on new information. Elsewhere in this issue of the Federal Register, FDA is announcing the availability of a class II special controls guidance entitled "Class II Special Controls Guidance Document: Herpes Simplex Virus Types 1 and 2 Serological Assays."
Molecular detection of respiratory viruses.	Over the past several years a wide variety of molecular assays for the detection of respiratory viruses has reached the market. The tests described herein range from kits containing primers and probes detecting specific groups of viruses, to self-contained systems requiring specialized instruments that extract nucleic acids and perform the polymerase chain reaction with little operator input. Some of the tests target just the viruses involved in large yearly epidemics such as influenza, or specific groups of viruses such as the adenoviruses or parainfluenza viruses; others can detect most of the known respiratory viruses and some bacterial agents. 
Use of Harvard Graphics program in processing of the results obtained from investigations on involvement of some viruses in malignant human diseases.	Different possibilities of graphic representation of the results obtained from investigations on the involvement of some viruses in the malignant and nonmalignant human pathology are analysed. The Harvard Graphics package available in many IBM compatible computers was used. Owing to its several graphic options and access to the drawing area it was preferred to the Epi Info-program specialized in recording and numerical processing of epidemiology data and lesser in their graphic representation.
