Demonstration of heavy and light density populations of Aleutian disease virus.	A highly purified and concentrated suspension of aleutian disease virus was prepared from large quantities of early infected mink tissues using repeated fluorocarbon extraction procedures. Equilibrium centrifugation of the aleutian disease virus preparation in a cesium chloride gradient yielded three distinct bands at buoyant densities of 1.295, 1.332, and 1.405--1.416 g/cm(3). Electron microscopic observations of these three bands revealed mainly empty particles in the first band. In the second band complete particles with a flattened appearnce predominated and there were also some empty particles. In the third band both complete and empty particles were observed. The size of the aleutian disease virus particles observed in all of the three densities was 23 nm. Light aleutian disease virions (density of 1.332 g/cm3) had a particle to counterimmunoelectrophoresis antigen ratio comparable to that of dense aleutian disease virions (density of 1.405--1.416 g/cm3) but possessed much lower infectivity as determined by mink inoculation.
Studies on transmissible gastroenteritis of swine. 3. The effect of selective inhibitors of viral replication on a cytopathogenic virus from transmissible gastroenteritis.	The effect on the plaque production of the Purdue strain of cytopathogenic virus from transmissible gastroenteritis of swine by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BUDR), 5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine (IUDR), actinomycin-D, puromycin, and amantadine-HCI (Symmetral) has been studied.Amantadine-HCI reduced the plaque-forming units of virus per ml by approximately 98%. Puromycin prevented almost all virus reproduction while actinomycin-D caused approximately a 22% reduction. Both IUDR and BUDR produced approximately a 20% increase in plaque-forming units of virus per ml. Swine testis cells stained with acridine orange early in the course of infection contained brick-red particles in the cytoplasm, indicative of a ribonucleic acid (RNA) type virus.
Characterization of bluetongue virus ribonucleic acid.	An improved purification procedure yielded bluetongue virus free from any single-stranded ribonucleic acid (RNA) component. Double-stranded RNA obtained from purified virus or isolated from infected cells was fractionated into 5 components by means of sucrose gradient sedimentation analysis, and into 10 components by electrophoresis on polyacrylamide gels. The size of these components vary from 0.5 x 10(6) to 2.8 x 10(6) daltons, with a total molecular weight estimate of about 1.5 x 10(7) for the viral nucleic acid. The denaturation of the genome and separation of the resulting fragments are also discussed.
The Darwin outbreak of oyster-associated viral gastroenteritis.	Approximately 60 persons attended a Christmas dinner, at a Darwin hotel, where oysters were served au natural as part of the menu. Twenty-five of the 28 persons who ate oysters developed symptoms of food poisoning--an attack rate of 89%. Of the 60 persons attending the dinner 44 were investigated. The incubation period and duration of illness were about 36 hours. Diarrhoea occurred in 100% of patients, with colic and nausea in 88% and 80% respectively. Half the patients complained of vomiting and headache. The storage temperature at which the oysters were kept was satisfactory and no bacterial pathogens were grown from the oyster and stool specimens. Electron microscopy revealed two distinct parvovirus-like particles in stool specimens, one of which was identified as Norwalk virus. Serological studies by immune electron microscopy showed the development of antibodies to the Norwalk-like particle by seven out of 10 patients. Confirmatory studies by radioimmunoassay showed a significant rise in antibody titre to Norwalk virus in seven patients.
