International Conference on Harmonisation; guidance on viral safety evaluation of biotechnology products derived from cell lines of human or animal origin; availability--FDA. Notice.	The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is publishing a guidance entitled "Q5A Viral Safety Evaluation of Biotechnology Products Derived From Cell Lines of Human or Animal Origin." The guidance was prepared under the auspices of the International Conference on Harmonisation of Technical Requirements for Registration of Pharmaceuticals for Human Use (ICH). The guidance describes the testing and evaluation of the viral safety of biotechnology products derived from characterized cell lines of human or animal origin, and outlines data that should be submitted in marketing applications.
Fish farming in ponds and lakes to provide an important protein supplement to the food basket, and connected public health problems.	Fish farming in ponds can be of great value in various ways: 1) By adding fat-free and relatively inexpensive animal protein to the food basket; 2) By removing waste water in a most hygienic as well as economic way; 3) By saving the cost of transport and storage of meat from warm-blooded animals by breeding fish near the consumer. Our task is to prevent the spread of disease in fish, to prevent transmission of health hazards to man, and to inspect the quality of fish all along the line from the ponds through marketing to the consumer.
Roles of water molecules in bacteria and viruses.	In addition to water, microbes mainly comprise lipids, carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids. Their structure and function singularly and conjointly is affected by water activity. Dessication leads to dramatic lipid phase changes whereas carbohydrates, proteins and nucleic acids initially suffer spontaneous, reversible low activation energy Maillard reactions forming products that more slowly re-arrange, cross-link etc. to give non-native states. While initial products spontaneously may reverse to native states by raising water activity, later products only do so through energy consumption and enzymatic activity eg. repair. Yet, native states of lipid membranes and associated enzymes are required to generate energy. Consequently, good reserves of high energy compounds (e.g. ATP) and of membrane stabilisers (e.g. trehalose) may be expected to enhance survival following drying and rehydration (e.g. anhydrobiotic organisms).
Viral transport in a sand and gravel aquifer under field pumping conditions.	Ground water supplies contaminated with microbes cause more than 50% of the water-borne disease outbreaks in the United States. Proposed regulations suggest natural disinfection as a possible mechanism to treat microbe-impacted ground water under favorable conditions. However, the usefulness of current models employed to predict viral transport and natural attenuation rates is limited by the absence of field scale calibration data. At a remote floodplain aquifer in western Montana, the bacteriophages MS2, phiX174, and PRD1; attenuated poliovirus type-1 (CHAT strain); and bromide were seeded as a slug 21.5 m from a well pumping at a steady rate of 408 L/min. Over the 47-hour duration of the test, resulting in the exchange of 12 to 13 pore volumes, 77% of the bromide, 55% of the PRD1, 17% of the MS2, 7% of the phiX174, and 0.12% of the poliovirus masses were recovered at the pumping well. Virus transport behavior was controlled by mechanical dispersion, preferential flow, time-dependent nonreversible and reversible attachment, and apparent mass transfer to immobile domains within the sand and gravel dominated aquifer. The percentage of virus recovery appears correlated with reported viral isoelectric point (pI) values. Successful modeling of viral transport in coarse-grained aquifers will require separation of viral specific properties from reported lumped viral-transport system parameters.
Virus retention and transport as influenced by different forms of soil organic matter.	Organic materials are widespread in natural soil and aquatic environments. Their effect on virus transport is very important in assessing the risk for contamination of ground water by viruses. This study aimed to determine how different forms (mineral-associated and dissolved) of natural organic matter influence the retention and transport of two bacteriophages (MS-2 and phiX174) in two porous media (a sand and a soil). We found that mineral-associated organic matter significantly promoted the transport of one virus (MS-2) but not the other (phiX174) in a phosphate-buffered saline solution. Similarly, MS-2 was retained less in sand columns with increasing concentrations of dissolved humic acid, while little effect was observed for phiX174 under the same conditions. The two viruses have different surface properties and thus exhibited different reactivity to the metal oxides present on sand particles and were affected differently by organic matter. Because the organic matter used in the study was negatively charged and hydrophilic, blocking of virus sorption sites and increasing of virus-medium electrostatic repulsion arising from modification of the sand and virus surface by organic matter are probably responsible for the facilitated transport. For dissolved humic acid, its competition for sorption sites with viruses was an additional mechanism involved. This study suggests that the effect of organic matter varied depending on the organic material properties and the type of viruses involved. As a general trend, the effect of organic matter was dominated by electrostatic rather than hydrophobic interactions.
Optical tweezers in biology and medicine]	Optical trapping techniques provide unique means to manipulate biological particles such as virus, living cells and subcellular organelles. Another area of interest is the measurement of mechanical (elastic) properties of cell membranes, long strands of single DNA molecule, and filamentous proteins. One of the most attractive applications is the study of single motor molecules. With optical tweezers traps, one can measure the forces generated by single motor molecules such as kinesin and myosin, in the piconewton range and, for the first time, resolve their detailed stepping motion.
Ecology of planktonic heterotrophic flagellates. A review.	In aquatic environments heterotrophic flagellates are an important component within the microbial loop and the food web, owing to their involvement in the energy transfer and flux and as an intermediate link between bacteria and primary producers, and greater organisms, such as other protists and metazoan consumers. In the microbial loop heterotrophic flagellates highly contribute to fast biomass and nutrient recycling and to the production in aquatic environments. In fact, these protists consume efficiently viruses, bacteria, cyanobacteria and picophytoplankton, and are grazed mainly by other protists, rotifers and small crustaceans. In this paper the knowledge about these unicellular organisms is reviewed, taking into particular account their ecological relationships and trophic role within the plankton community of marine and freshwater environments.
Etiology and pathogenesis of AIDS-related non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.	The incidence of NHL is greatly increased in HIV-infected individuals; malignant lymphoma is the second most common neoplasm that occurs in association with AIDS. The vast majority of neoplasms are clinically aggressive, monoclonal B-cell neoplasms that exhibit Burkitt's, immunoblastic, large cell, or transitional histopathology. Approximately 80% arise systemically (nodal or extranodal) and 20% arise as primary CNS lymphomas. A small proportion of neoplasms are body cavity-based, primary effusion lymphomas that are uniquely associated with KSHV infection. Recently, HIV-associated polymorphic lymphoproliferative disorders have been described as well. AIDS-related NHLs appear to exhibit distinctive clinical characteristics according to their histopathology and anatomic site of origin. Factors that contribute to lymphoma development include HIV-induced immunosuppression, impaired immune surveillance, cytokine release and deregulation, and chronic antigenic stimulation. This environment is associated with the development of oligoclonal B-cell expansions. The appearance of NHL is characterized by the presence of a monoclonal B-cell population that displays a variety of genetic lesions, including, for example, EBV infection, MYC gene rearrangement, BCL6 gene rearrangement, P53 mutations and deletions, and RAS gene mutations. The number and type of genetic lesions vary somewhat among AIDS-related NHLs according to their histopathologic category and anatomic site of origin. These findings suggest that more than one pathogenetic mechanism is operational in the development and progression of AIDS-related NHLs. Further work is necessary to develop a complete understanding of the etiology and pathogenesis of NHL in the setting of HIV infection. AIDS-related NHL is an important biologic model for investigating the development and progression of high-grade NHLs and NHLs that develop in immunedeficient hosts.
Studies by electron microscopy of thin sections of infectious myxomatosis in rabbits.	Rabbits were inoculated with the C.P.M. strain of myxoma virus and the resulting subcutaneous tumors were fixed, embedded, and sectioned for observation with the electron microscope. Both round cells and the typical stellate myxomatous cells were observed in addition to changes in the collagen pattern at the intercellular spaces. The cytoplasm of the cells showed a great number of bodies of varying size and density, the largest of them having the size and other characteristics of the elementary bodies of the virus. Some of the bodies showed an internal structure, being formed by the tight clumping of small dense particles. Distribution curves of the diameter of the elementary bodies and of the smaller internal particles are presented. The morphological problems involved in the virus-host cell relationship are discussed in the case of the myxoma virus.
Studies on the propagation in vitro of poliomyelitis viruses.  III.  The propagation of poliomyelitis viruses in tissue cultures devoid of nerve cells.	Cells like fibroblasts, having no resemblance whatever to nerve cells were obtained in morphologically pure cultures from monkey testicular tissue and were found to support the growth in vitro of poliomyelitis virus, Type 2, Yale-SK strain. Moreover, these cells were destroyed as a result of the multiplication of this virus within them. Similarly, "fibroblasts" propagated in primary explant cultures of testicle were destroyed by poliomyelitis viruses, Types 1 and 2. Type specific antibodies neutralized the pathogenic effect of poliomyelitis virus on monkey testicular fibroblasts.
Preparation, purification, and properties of E. coli virus T2.	1. A method for the preparation of 8 to 10 liter quantities of T(2) virus lysates, titering 2 to 5 x 10(11) infectious units per ml. has been described. 2. Procedures have been developed for the concentration and purification of virus to a high specific infectivity. No fractionation procedure of the several used succeeded in further raising the specific infectivity of these purified preparations. 3. Some of the general properties of the better preparations have been determined. They exhibited titers of 2 x 10(15) infective units per gm. of material or 1.2 x 10(16) per gm. of nitrogen. 4. A study of the distribution of nitrogen among the various fractions of the virus showed that about 6 per cent of the total nitrogen is soluble in 4 per cent trichloracetic acid; that the protein nitrogen is about 40 per cent of the total and the nucleic acid nitrogen is 53 per cent. At least 96 per cent of the total phosphorus is in the nucleic acid fraction. Less than 0.5 per cent quantities of lipid and PNA were found.
Active specific immunotherapy with vaccinia melanoma oncolysate.	Based on antitumor effects observed with vaccinia virus infected tumor cell lysate in animal models, adjuvant immunotherapeutic clinical trials were undertaken in patients with melanoma using vaccinia virus infected melanoma oncolysate (VMO). Preliminary clinical trials showed that the VMO is safe except minimal side effects such as mild fever, pain, and tenderness at the site of VMO injection, and mild lymphadenopathy. The effective dose of VMO was investigated in a following trial using 0.05 to 2.0 mg doses of VMO. Clinical responses and laboratory monitoring of melanoma-specific antibody responses decided the 2 mg dose of VMO is optimal for future trials. In all the clinical trials, patients showed moderate responses and their postimmune sera contained melanoma-specific antibodies. In a Phase II clinical trial completed August 1985 19 of 39 stage II patients had a disease-free mean survival time of 24.6 months, statistically significant compared with historical controls. Because of compelling evidence of significant clinical responses in patients treated with VMO adjuvant immunotherapy in the Phase II trial, a prospective randomized multi-institutional double-blind Phase III adjuvant VMO immunotherapeutic trial using adjuvant therapy of vaccinia virus alone as control, was recently initiated. Results of this trial are anxiously anticipated.
Studies with the electron microscope of virus-host relationships in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.  I.  The identification and structure of anopheles A virus.	Sections of Ehrlich ascites tumor cells infected with anopheles A virus revealed particles in the cytoplasm, which were identified as the virus on the basis of their consistent size and internal structure; their high opacity in the electron beam after fixation with osmic acid; the localized occurrence, within a certain time interval following infection, of high concentrations of such particles within the cell; the absence of similar particles in uninoculated tumor cells and cells infected with other viruses, and the appearance of such particles in infected chorioallantoic membrane. The particles are spheroid, with a transparent 25 to 30 mmicro core, surrounded by an opaque complex shell 12 to 17 mmicro in thickness. Apparently "hollow," globular components of this shell have outer and inner diameters of approximately 12 mmicro and 5 to 7 mmicro respectively. The validity of an additional outer envelope is discussed. Particles are frequently embedded in a matrix, and their alignment and grouping are discussed. Markedly dense populations are found near nuclear concavities. Some infective changes in the cell are described, for example the formation of newly observed virus-induced necrotic regions.
Studies with the electron microscope of virus-host relationships in Ehrlich ascites tumor cells.  II.  The localization and possible development of anopheles A virus within the endoplasmic reticulum of the host cell.	Evidence is presented suggesting that anopheles A virus in the Ehrlich ascites tumor cell is harbored and propagated within the endoplasmic reticulum which in this system consists of an extensive canalicular network. The organization and differentiation of endoplasmic reticulum within the cell are described and the significance of such a location of virus is discussed.
Virus proliferation in hypoxic mice and chick embryos.	Virus proliferation in hypoxic animals was markedly reduced. Little difference in this respect between influenza virus (PR8) and mouse encephalomyelitis virus (Theiler's GD VII) was observed except that there was a longer depression of the latter virus. The possible mechanisms involved are discussed.
REPLICATION OF A DEOXYRIBONUCLEIC ACID VIRUS IN THYMINE-DEFICIENT MAMMALIAN CELLS.	Gentry, Glenn A. (University of Mississippi School of Medicine, Jackson), Lucy A. Lawson, and Charles C. Randall. Replication of a deoxyribonucleic acid virus in thymine-deficient mammalian cells. J. Bacteriol. 88:1324-1328. 1964.-Equine abortion virus (EAV), a deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) virus, causes the degradation of host cell DNA to acid-soluble components in the L-M cell. It was hypothesized that inhibitors of DNA synthesis such as 5-fluorodeoxyuridine (FUdR) and amethopterin, which act by causing a deficiency in thymidine (TdR) nucleotides, would not block virus replication because the breakdown of the host cell DNA would supply sufficient TdR nucleotides for synthesis of viral DNA. The drugs were added 24 hr prior to the virus, amethopterin at 10(-6)m with adenosine included as a purine source, or FUdR at 10(-5)m. In either case, control experiments indicated that the thymineless state was achieved in the host cells. When EAV was added, neither FUdR nor amethopterin had any effect on the production of infectious virus, as determined by plaque assay, thus supporting the hypothesis.
Changes in non-protein nitrogen metabolism during tobacco mosaic virus biosynthesis.	1. Discs cut from tobacco leaf tissue infected with tobacco mosaic virus and cultured in water contain less non-protein nitrogen than comparable uninfected discs during the time at which TMV is formed. This deficiency disappears when virus formation ceases. Discs cultured in nutrient solution form about twice as much TMV as discs cultured in water. The maximum non-protein nitrogen deficiency is comparable in magnitude to the amount of virus synthesized. 2. The largest difference between injected and uninfected tissue occurs in the ammonia content. Smaller, but significant differences in amide content are found. Infected discs cultured in water show no significant differences from control discs in free amino acid content; infected discs cultured in nutrient solution develop a small deficiency in amino acid nitrogen. 3. The general patterns of change in composition of the pool of soluble nitrogen are similar in both infected and uninfected discs. 4. The data indicate that the bulk of the nitrogen incorporated into virus protein is withdrawn from the leaf's pool of soluble nitrogen; virus is formed de novo from ammonia nitrogen and non-nitrogenous carbon sources. The effect of virus infection on host nitrogen metabolism appears to be due to the formation of virus rather than to its presence.
Studies on the psittacosis-lymphogranuloma group. II. A non-infectious phase in virus development following adsorption to host tissue.	The pattern of growth of meningopneumonitis virus in vitro seemed to be similar to that occurring in ovo and thus the initial stages of development, the adsorption and the latent periods, were investigated by the use of tissue culture procedures. The initial increment of infectivity in allantoic membrane suspensions following virus inoculation in ovo was due to prolonged adsorption of virus and not to immediate virus reproduction. The length of the adsorption period varied with the virus dilution employed. The reduction of virus titer in allantoic membrane suspensions subsequent to adsorption was due to a change of infectious virus to a non-infectious form and this seemed to be a part of the normal developmental cycle of the virus. The possible causes for both prolonged virus adsorption and for the subsequent development of a non-infectious form are discussed.
Gene therapy for inherited disorders of haematopoietic cells.	Over the last decade, the majority of inborn errors of haematopoiesis has been elucidated on a molecular level. For some of these diseases, gene transfer into transplantable cells offers new therapeutic perspectives. Improved retroviral or lentiviral techniques allow stable gene transfer in >10% of repopulating cells cultured in vitro. However, severe impediments are still encountered with respect to achieving sufficient and long-lasting transgene expression levels and appropriate numbers of transgenic cells in vivo. Improving the techniques for manipulation of stem cells in vitro, and the development of regimens promoting engraftment and selection of gene-modified cells are important areas of current research. Further activities address the level and persistence of transgene expression within individual cell clones, and the functional characteristics of progeny cells in vivo. Promises with respect to the potential impact of gene therapy for patients suffering from inherited disorders are often triggered by 'proof of concept' in preclinical disease models. However, recent observations of side effects related to random vector insertion or transgene expression indicate that even more careful quantitative and qualitative investigations of efficiency and toxicity may be needed for individual transgenes before approaching clinical trials.
Virus-like particles as vaccines and vessels for the delivery of small molecules.	Virus-like particles (VLPs) structurally mimic the viral capsid and have therefore been extensively, and quite successfully, used as vaccine and viral serology reagents. The ability of VLPs to include nucleic acids and small molecules has also made them novel vessels for gene and drug delivery. The regular, repetitive surface of VLPs has been exploited as a template for nanoscale synthesis. Recent progress has been made in the development of several virus models.
Neurogenesis in the mature olfactory bulb and it's possible functional destination]	This review is concerned with neurogenesis in the mature mammalian brain with emphasis on cell population renewal in the olfactory bulb (OB). The structural and functional features of the OB are considered along with data on neurotropic viruses and toxic dust penetration into the CNS through the OB. We hypothesize a protective role of neurogenesis in the mature OB. This suggests that normal renewal of cell populations in the OB is an important barrier mechanism protecting the brain from invasion of small amounts of harmful neurotropic agents (ex. viruses and particles of toxic dust), which can cause various neurodegenerative diseases.
Does common architecture reveal a viral lineage spanning all three domains of life?	Our discovery that the major coat protein of bacteriophage PRD1 resembles that of human adenovirus raised the unexpected possibility that viruses infecting bacteria could be related by evolution to those infecting animal hosts. We first review the development of this idea. We then describe how we have used structure-based modeling to show that several other viruses with no detectable sequence similarity are likely to have coats constructed from similar proteins-the "double-barrel trimer." There is evidence that the group includes a diversity of viruses infecting very different hosts in all three domains of life: Eukarya; Bacteria; and Archaea that diverged billions of years ago. The current classification of viruses obscures such similarities. We propose that the occurrence of a double-barrel trimer coat protein in an icosahedral dsDNA virus with large facets, irrespective of its host, is a very strong indicator of its membership in a lineage of viruses with a common ancestor.
Molecular constraints to interspecies transmission of viral pathogens.	The successful replication of a viral pathogen in a host is a complex process involving many interactions. These interactions develop from the coevolution of pathogen and host and often lead to a species specificity of the virus that can make interspecies transmissions difficult. Nevertheless, viruses do sporadically cross species barriers into other host populations, including humans. In zoonotic infections, many of these interspecies transfer events are dead end, where transmission is confined only to the animal-to-human route but sometimes viruses adapt to enable spread from human to human. A pathogen must overcome many hurdles to replicate successfully in a foreign host. The viral pathogen must enter the host cell, replicate with the assistance of host factors, evade inhibitory host products, exit the first cell and move on to the next, and possibly leave the initial host and transmit to another. Each of these stages may require adaptive changes in the pathogen. Although the factors that influence each stage of the replication and transmission of most agents have not been resolved, the genomics of both hosts and pathogens are now at hand and we have begun to understand some of the molecular changes that enable some viruses to adapt to a new host.
Estimation of bioaerosol risk of infection to residents adjacent to a land applied biosolids site using an empirically derived transport model.	The purpose of this study was to develop an empirically derived transport model, which could be used to predict downwind concentrations of viruses and bacteria during land application of liquid biosolids and subsequently assess microbial risk associated with this practice.
Viruses as probes for systems analysis of cellular signalling, cytoskeleton reorganization and endocytosis.	It is well known that mammalian viruses hijack the cellular signalling and internalization machineries to enter and to infect their host cells; however, only in the past six years have researchers started to follow individual virus particles and to investigate the events that they induce in living cells. The relative ease of imaging individual virus particles with time-lapse microscopy, despite being limited by light-diffraction, allows for specific and local kinetic analysis of individual events in signalling, cytoskeleton reorganization and endocytosis. Furthermore, virus infection is an easy-to-use endpoint readout, which is ideally suited for functional genomics approaches. The combined information from these studies will be crucial for the development of models that describe the underlying systems of cellular signalling, cytoskeleton reorganization and membrane trafficking during virus entry.
Surface display of an internal His-tag on virus-like particles of Nudaurelia capensis omega virus (NomegaV) produced in a baculovirus expression system.	Nudaurelia capensis omega virus (NomegaV) is a member of the Tetraviridae, a family of small, icosahedral, non-enveloped, (+) sense single-stranded RNA insect viruses with T = 4 symmetry. NomegaV virus-like particles (VLPs), which are morphologically indistinguishable from native virions and capable of packaging heterologous RNA, may be produced in the baculovirus expression system. As a first step towards manipulating the tropism of tetraviral nanoparticles (Capsivectors), a (His)6-tag was inserted into the GH loop (between Ala 378 and Gly 379) of the surface-exposed Ig-like domain of NomegaV capsid protein (p70). His-tagged p70 produced in a baculovirus expression system self-assembled into omegaHis VLPs that exhibited similar morphological and RNA encapsidation properties as wild-type NomegaV VLPs produced in the same system. Two assays using paramagnetic pre-charged nickel beads confirmed that multiple affinity tags were present on the surface of omegaHis VLPs and were capable of binding. These results indicate that the GH loop is a suitable site for the retargeting of NomegaV particles for potential biotechnological applications.
Inferences drawn from a risk assessment compared directly with a randomized trial of a home drinking water intervention.	Risk assessments and intervention trials have been used by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency to estimate drinking water health risks. Seldom are both methods used concurrently. Between 2001 and 2003, illness data from a trial were collected simultaneously with exposure data, providing a unique opportunity to compare direct risk estimates of waterborne disease from the intervention trial with indirect estimates from a risk assessment. Comparing the group with water treatment (active) with that without water treatment (sham), the estimated annual attributable disease rate (cases per 10,000 persons per year) from the trial provided no evidence of a significantly elevated drinking water risk [attributable risk=-365 cases/year, sham minus active; 95% confidence interval (CI) , -2,555 to 1,825]. The predicted mean rate of disease per 10,000 persons per person-year from the risk assessment was 13.9 (2.5, 97.5 percentiles: 1.6, 37.7) assuming 4 log removal due to viral disinfection and 5.5 (2.5, 97.5 percentiles: 1.4, 19.2) assuming 6 log removal. Risk assessments are important under conditions of low risk when estimates are difficult to attain from trials. In particular, this assessment pointed toward the importance of attaining site-specific treatment data and the clear need for a better understanding of viral removal by disinfection. Trials provide direct risk estimates, and the upper confidence limit estimates, even if not statistically significant, are informative about possible upper estimates of likely risk. These differences suggest that conclusions about waterborne disease risk may be strengthened by the joint use of these two approaches. Key words: drinking water, gastrointestinal, intervention trial, microbial risk assessment, waterborne pathogens.
Development of Sindbis viruses encoding nsP2/GFP chimeric proteins and their application for studying nsP2 functioning.	Sindbis virus (SINV) is one of almost 30 currently known alphaviruses. In infected cells, it produces only a few proteins that function in virus replication and interfere with the development of the antiviral response. One of the viral nonstructural proteins, nsP2, not only exhibits protease and RNA helicase activities that are directly involved in viral RNA replication but also plays critical roles in the development of transcriptional and translational shutoffs in the SINV-infected cells. These multiple activities of nsP2 complicate investigations of this protein's functions and further understanding of its structure. Using a transposon-based approach, we generated a cDNA library of SINV genomes with a green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene randomly inserted into nsP2 and identified a number of sites that can be used for GFP cloning without a strong effect on virus replication. Recombinant SIN viruses encoding nsP2/GFP chimeric protein were capable of growth in tissue culture and interfering with cellular functions. SINV, expressing GFP in the nsP2, was used to isolate nsP2-specific protein complexes formed in the cytoplasm of the infected cells. These complexes contained viral nsPs, all of the cellular proteins that we previously coisolated with SINV nsP3, and some additional protein factors that were not found before in detectable concentrations. The random insertion library-based approach, followed by the selection of the viable variants expressing heterologous proteins, can be applied for mapping the domain structure of the viral nonstructural and structural proteins, cloning of peptide tags for isolation of the protein-specific complexes, and studying their formation by using live-cell imaging. This approach may also be applicable to presentation of additional antigens and retargeting of viruses to new receptors.
Cross-reactive antibody responses to nsp1 and nsp2 of Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus.	Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) non-structural proteins (nsps) play a key role in processing and maturation of the repertoire of structural and nsps of the virion, but little is known about the anti-nsp immune response. Here, it was hypothesized that pronounced antibody responses are generated to PRRSV nsp1 and nsp2, as they are present in infected cells and cytolytic infection releases viral proteins into interstitial spaces. Accordingly, nsp1 and nsp2 were cloned and expressed, and antibody responses in the sera of infected and vaccinated pigs were determined. Pigs mounted significant cross-reactive antibody responses that appeared equivalent to or greater than the response to nucleocapsid (N). Antibody reactivity to nsp1 and N was highly dependent on refolding of denatured proteins, suggesting that the porcine antibody response is directed primarily to conformational epitopes. The proteins reacted with sera from pigs infected with other PRRSV strains, indicating that multiple epitopes are conserved. Antibody responses to nsp1 and nsp2 were much higher than those to nsp4, which is encoded on the same RNA molecule and is equivalent in predicted antigenicity. These findings suggest either that nsp1 and nsp2 are highly immunogenic or that they are expressed at higher levels than nsp4 in PRRSV-infected cells, or both. Strong antibody responses to nsp1 and nsp2 may benefit the host by limiting potentially pathological consequences of viral protease activities encoded in these proteins that are released from dying cells. The identification of strain-specific antibody responses to a highly variable region of nsp2 may also provide the basis for immunoassays that differentiate serological responses of vaccines from field isolates.
Substitution or deletion mutations between nt 54 and 70 in the 5' non-coding region of dengue type 2 virus produce variable effects on virus viability.	A C57U nucleotide mutation in a predicted RNA stem structure (nt 11-16/56-61) of the 5' non-coding region (5'NCR) of dengue 2 (DEN-2) 16681 virus is partially attenuating, but unstable during serial passage of certain candidate DEN-2 PDK-53-based vaccine viruses containing this mutation. Here, 11 different mutations (one or more point substitution and/or deletion) between nt 54 and 70 in the 5'NCR of the pD2/IC-30P-A (16681) infectious clone are described. Four mutants were infectious. Three mutants with single point substitutions replicated well in cell culture and exhibited variable neurovirulence in mice. Constructs containing multiple substitutions or any deletions failed to produce infectious viruses. Unexpectedly, a double C57U+G58C mutant replicated as efficiently as D2/IC-30P-A virus, and was more neurovirulent for newborn ICR mice. Thus, despite its predicted additional disruption of the RNA stem structure, the engineered contiguous secondary G58C mutation caused reversion of the partially attenuated phenotype caused by the 5'NCR-C57U mutation.
Why there was a useful plausible analogy between geodesic domes and spherical viruses.	In 1962, Donald Caspar and Aaron Klug published their classic theory of virus structure. They developed their theory with an explicit analogy between spherical viruses and Buckminster Fuller's geodesic domes. In this paper, I use the spherical virus-geodesic dome case to develop an account of analogy and deductive analogical inference based on the notion of an isomorphism. I also consider under what conditions there is a good reason to claim an experimentally untested analogy is plausible.
Rice dwarf virus is engulfed into and released via vesicular compartments in cultured insect vector cells.	Vector insect cells infected with Rice dwarf virus had vesicular compartments containing viral particles located adjacent to the viroplasm when examined by transmission electron and confocal microscopy. Such compartments were often at the periphery of infected cells. Inhibitors of vesicular transport, brefeldin A and monensin, and an inhibitor of myosin motor activity, butanedione monoxime, abolished the formation of such vesicles and prevented the release of viral particles from infected cells without significant effects on virus multiplication. Furthermore, the actin-depolymerizing drug, cytochalasin D, inhibited the formation of actin filaments without significantly interfering with formation of vesicular compartments and the release of viruses from treated cells. These results together revealed intracellular vesicular compartments as a mode for viral transport in and release from insect vector cells infected with a plant-infecting reovirus.
New strategies for cancer gene therapy: progress and opportunities.	1. To date, cancer persists as one of the most devastating diseases worldwide. Problems such as metastasis and tumour resistance to chemotherapy and radiotherapy have seriously limited the therapeutic effects of existing clinical treatments. 2. To address these problems, cancer gene therapy has been developing over the past two decades, specifically designed to deliver therapeutic genes to treat cancers using vector systems. So far, a number of genes and delivery vehicles have been evaluated and significant progress has been made with several gene therapy modalities in clinical trials. However, the lack of an ideal gene delivery system remains a major obstacle for the successful translation of regimen to the clinic. 3. Recent understanding of hypoxic and necrotic regions within solid tumours and rapid development of recombinant DNA technology have reignited the idea of using anaerobic bacteria as novel gene delivery systems. These bacterial vectors have unique advantages over other delivery systems and are likely to become the vector of choice for cancer gene therapy in the near future. 4. Meanwhile, complicated tumour pathophysiology and associated metastasis make it hard to rely on a single therapeutic modality for complete tumour eradication. Therefore, the combination of cancer gene therapy with other conventional treatments has become paramount. 5. The present review introduces important cancer gene therapy strategies and major vector systems that have been studied so far with an emphasis on bacteria-mediated cancer gene therapy. In addition, exemplary combined therapies are briefly reviewed.
Soil and groundwater transport of microorganisms.	Releases of GEMs into the environment are expected to increase in the next few years, with the most dramatic increases resulting from the application of pest-control agents in agriculture and forestry. Of major significance in assessing the environmental risk impact of GEMs is an understanding of their survival and transport in soil and subsurface environments. While information on the transport and survival of microorganisms through soil is available, it is neither abundant nor extensive in terms of microbial types tested or soils examined. Though the transport of microorganisms from an application site depends primarily upon passive mechanisms, broad generalizations pertaining to the transportability of a specific microorganism within a particular soil environment may not be possible. Indeed, to extrapolate from information about one microbe to another, or from one geographical location to another, may not be appropriate. What is clear, however, is that the broader the data base, the more powerful the argument for making reasoned judgement, and consequently the more satisfactory the results of the predictive process. Several inherent difficulties exist in studying the transport behavior of GEMs in soil and subsurface environments. Detection of low microbial numbers or of stressed microbial populations is exceedingly difficult with traditional technology. In an effort to improve detection sensitivity, many improved methods of monitoring GEMs in the soil and subsurface are currently under development (Chaudhry et al. 1989). Beyond the difficulties of making accurate measurements of microorganisms to determine their spatial and temporal situation in the soil and subsurface environment, lies the need to ascertain the dynamic relationships between indigenous populations of microorganisms and how they may interact with a released GEM. Also, research strategies have not adequately addressed methods to predict the potential interactions between GEMs and natural microorganisms. These issues must be addressed if environmental risk assessment is to be valuable. There is clearly a need for focused research on the survival and transport of GEMs in these environments.
Inhibiting host-pathogen interactions using membrane-based nanostructures.	Virulent strains of bacteria and viruses recognize host cells by their plasma membrane receptors and often exploit the native translocation machinery to invade the cell. A promising therapeutic concept for early interruption of pathogen infection is to subvert this pathogenic trickery using exogenously introduced decoys that present high-affinity mimics of cellular receptors. This review highlights emerging applications of molecularly engineered lipid-bilayer-based nanostructures, namely (i) functionalized liposomes, (ii) supported colloidal bilayers or protocells and (iii) reconstituted lipoproteins, which display functional cellular receptors in optimized conformational and aggregative states. These decoys outcompete host cell receptors by preferentially binding to and neutralizing virulence factors of both bacteria and viruses, thereby promising a new approach to antipathogenic therapy.
Heterologous RNA-silencing suppressors from both plant- and animal-infecting viruses support plum pox virus infection.	HCPro, the RNA-silencing suppressor (RSS) of viruses belonging to the genus Potyvirus in the family Potyviridae, is a multifunctional protein presumably involved in all essential steps of the viral infection cycle. Recent studies have shown that plum pox potyvirus (PPV) HCPro can be replaced successfully by cucumber vein yellowing ipomovirus P1b, a sequence-unrelated RSS from a virus of the same family. In order to gain insight into the requirement of a particular RSS to establish a successful potyviral infection, we tested the ability of different heterologous RSSs from both plant- and animal-infecting viruses to substitute for HCPro. Making use of engineered PPV chimeras, we show that PPV HCPro can be replaced functionally by some, but not all, unrelated RSSs, including the NS1 protein of the mammal-infecting influenza A virus. Interestingly, the capacity of a particular RSS to replace HCPro does not correlate strictly with its RNA silencing-suppression strength. Altogether, our results suggest that not all suppression strategies are equally suitable for efficient escape of PPV from the RNA-silencing machinery. The approach followed here, based on using PPV chimeras in which an under-consideration RSS substitutes for HCPro, could further help to study the function of diverse RSSs in a 'highly sensitive' RNA-silencing context, such as that taking place in plant cells during the process of a viral infection.
Simulating microbial systems: addressing model uncertainty/incompleteness via multiscale and entropy methods.	Most systems of interest in the natural and engineering sciences are multiscale in character. Typically available models are incomplete or uncertain. Thus, a probabilistic approach is required. We present a deductive multiscale approach to address such problems, focusing on virus and cell systems to demonstrate the ideas. There is usually an underlying physical model, all factors in which (e.g., particle masses, charges, and force constants) are known. For example, the underlying model can be cast in terms of a collection of N-atoms evolving via Newton's equations. When the number of atoms is 10(6) or more, these physical models cannot be simulated directly. However, one may only be interested in a coarse-grained description, e.g., in terms of molecular populations or overall system size, shape, position, and orientation. The premise of this chapter is that the coarse-grained equations should be derived from the underlying model so that a deductive calibration-free methodology is achieved. We consider a reduction in resolution from a description for the state of N-atoms to one in terms of coarse-grained variables. This implies a degree of uncertainty in the underlying microstates. We present a methodology for modeling microbial systems that integrates equations for coarse-grained variables with a probabilistic description of the underlying fine-scale ones. The implementation of our strategy as a general computational platform (SimEntropics™) for microbial modeling and prospects for developments and applications are discussed.
Nasopharyngeal detection of respiratory viruses in febrile neutropenic children.	Although fever is common in neutropenic children, a microbiological etiology is determined in only 15% to 30% of cases. The authors investigated the frequency of respiratory virus detection in the upper airways of febrile neutropenic children with negative bacterial cultures.
Cancer, viruses and environmental factors.	The genesis of Burkitt's lymphoma is visualized as proceeding in three steps: I. Primary EBV infection affects the young child, probably at a relatively high multiplicity. It immortalizes a certain number of B-lymphocytes in vivo. II. This is followed by the impact of an environmental promoting agent, perhaps chronic holoendemic malaria, providing a chronic stimulus to the proliferation of the EBV-carrying preneoplastic cells. III. Chromosomally abnormal variants appear in the stimulated tissue by chance. After certain types of changes, particularly the 8 to 14 translocation that leads to the 14q+ marker, the affected B lymphocyte would no longer obey the negative feedback controls that would otherwise restrict its proliferation in vivo.
Tracing enteric viruses in the European berry fruit supply chain.	In recent years, numerous foodborne outbreaks due to consumption of berry fruit contaminated by human enteric viruses have been reported. This European multinational study investigated possible contamination routes by monitoring the entire food chain for a panel of human and animal enteric viruses. A total of 785 samples were collected throughout the food production chain of four European countries (Czech Republic, Finland, Poland and Serbia) during two growing seasons. Samples were taken during the production phase, the processing phase, and at point-of-sale. Samples included irrigation water, animal faeces, food handlers' hand swabs, swabs from toilets on farms, from conveyor belts at processing plants, and of raspberries or strawberries at points-of-sale; all were subjected to virus analysis. The samples were analysed by real-time (reverse transcription, RT)-PCR, primarily for human adenoviruses (hAdV) to demonstrate that a route of contamination existed from infected persons to the food supply chain. The analyses also included testing for the presence of selected human (norovirus, NoV GI, NoV GII and hepatitis A virus, HAV), animal (porcine adenovirus, pAdV and bovine polyomavirus, bPyV) and zoonotic (hepatitis E virus, HEV) viruses. At berry production, hAdV was found in 9.5%, 5.8% and 9.1% of samples of irrigation water, food handlers' hands and toilets, respectively. At the processing plants, hAdV was detected in one (2.0%) swab from a food handler's hand. At point-of-sale, the prevalence of hAdV in fresh raspberries, frozen raspberries and fresh strawberries, was 0.7%, 3.2% and 2.0%, respectively. Of the human pathogenic viruses, NoV GII was detected in two (3.6%) water samples at berry production, but no HAV was detected in any of the samples. HEV-contaminated frozen raspberries were found once (2.6%). Animal faecal contamination was evidenced by positive pAdV and bPyV assay results. At berry production, one water sample contained both viruses, and at point-of-sale 5.7% and 1.3% of fresh and frozen berries tested positive for pAdV. At berry production hAdV was found both in irrigation water and on food handler's hands, which indicated that these may be important vehicles by which human pathogenic viruses enter the berry fruit chain. Moreover, both zoonotic and animal enteric viruses could be detected on the end products. This study gives insight into viral sources and transmission routes and emphasizes the necessity for thorough compliance with good agricultural and hygienic practice at the farms to help protect the public from viral infections. 
The mosaic of environment involvement in autoimmunity: the abrogation of viral latency by stress, a non-infectious environmental agent, is an intrinsic prerequisite prelude before viruses can rank as infectious environmental agents that trigger autoimmune diseases.	An autoimmune disease (AD), organ-specific or systemic, results from an aberrant response in which the protective immune system normally schooled to recognize and destroy invading infectious agents (viruses, etc.) instead fails to distinguish self-antigens and proceeds to attack and destroy the host's organs. There can be familial aggregation in which a single AD may occur in members of a family, or a single family may be afflicted with multiple ADs. Finally, sometimes multiple ADs co-occur in a single individual: the kaleidoscope of autoimmunity. Autoimmunity is a multifactorial process in which genetic, hormonal, immunological and environmental factors act in concert to materialize the mosaic of autoimmunity phenomenon. A genetically primed individual may yet not develop an AD: the contribution by an environmental factor (non-infectious or infectious) is essential for completion of the act. Of the non-infectious factors, stress plays a determinative step in autoimmunity in that it abrogates viral latency and thereby ordains the viruses to qualify as infectious environmental factors that trigger ADs. This is note-worthy as viruses rank first as the most important environmental triggers of ADs. Furthermore, all these viruses experience going through latency. Hence the hypothesis: "The abrogation of viral latency by stress, a non-infectious environmental agent, is an intrinsic prerequisite prelude before viruses can rank as infectious environmental agents that trigger autoimmune diseases". There is collaboration here between non-infectious- and infectious-agent to achieve the cause of autoimmunity. We say viral latency and stress have a covenant: continued perpetration of autoimmunity is dependent on the intervention by stress to reactivate latent infections. 
In vitro and in vivo characterization of a high-purity, solvent/detergent-treated factor VIII concentrate: evidence for its therapeutic efficacy in von Willebrand's disease.	A factor VIII (FVIII) concentrate, virus-inactivated by the solvent/detergent procedure, was studied in vitro. In contrast with most high-purity, virus-inactivated FVIII concentrates, it contains not only high levels of von Willebrand factor (vWF) antigen and ristocetin cofactor activity but also high molecular weight forms of von Willebrand factor. Furthermore, it is able to promote platelet adhesion on collagen in a perfusion system. In vivo studies performed in patients with different types of von Willebrand's disease provided evidence that this concentrate corrects Duke's bleeding time and prevents or stops haemorrhages. Thus, the particular advantages of this FVIII/vWF preparation are safety, low content of contamination proteins, and efficacy in von Willebrand's disease.
Epidemiology of cancer of the penis.	World-wide incidences of penile cancer are reviewed and epidemiologic factors including ciecumcision, hygiene, phimosis, smegma, irritation, infection, veneral disease, viruses, environment, race, immune response, trauma, and age are discussed. The lowest rates appear in groups practicing infant circumcision and in areas where standards of sexual hygiene are high.
Microbial nomenclature: a list of names and origins.	Microbial nomenclature underwent a large number of changes in the 1970s. Many species of pathogens were added and many others experienced name changes. These modifications primarily were due to two unrelated factors: the use of new DNA hybridization techniques and the advent of computerized literature searches to establish historical precedence. In 1980 an approved list of microbial names was published. This list fixed and legitimized bacterial nomenclature. All future additions or alterations to it had to pass international scientific committees. This list has now been accepted by the scientific community. The derivation of these names are presented in this review.
A theory for the displacement of proteins and viruses with polyethylene glycol.	The displacement action of polyethylene glycol of different molecular weights may be linked to the ability of the polymers to form coiled particles in solution. From conclusions drawn from their sedimentating properties in centrifugal fields the polyethylene glycols of low molecular weights, as expected, are less randomly coiled than those of higher molecular weight. It is suggested that protein molecules have the ability to diffuse into the coils of the polyethylene glycol from which they are excluded when the random coiling increases with increasing polymer concentration. From considerations based on the interaction of the polymer filament with the displaced particle the distribution of the substance between the coils and the intermolecular spaces may be predicted semi-quantitatively.
Effect of terminal (dry) heat treatment on non-enveloped viruses in coagulation factor concentrates.	Terminal dry heat treatment effectively inactivated hepatitis A virus (HAV) and canine parvovirus added to high-purity factor VIII. After 24 h at 80 degrees C, HAV infectivity was reduced by > or = 4.3 log10 TCID50, as measured in a newly developed infectivity assay. The same reduction in virus titer was achieved after 2 h and before 6 h at 90 degrees C. Inactivation of hepatitis A virus was also seen in the freeze-drying step prior to heat treatment with an approximately 2.0 log10 reduction in titer. Similar results were obtained with a high-purity factor IX concentrate. Canine parvovirus was also inactivated at both temperatures, with residual infectivity being undetected after 48 h at 80 degrees C or 10 h at 90 degrees C. Canine parvovirus was not affected by lyophilisation. Canine parvovirus measurements by PCR did not reflect the levels of infectivity measured by the tissue-culture-based method. The addition of the terminal dry heat treatment to solvent/detergent could effectively eliminate the potential contamination of solvent/detergent-treated coagulation factor concentrates by non-lipid-enveloped viruses. However, careful evaluation for any increased induction of non-antigens for factor VIII, as a consequence of such treatment, is needed before use in patients can be recommended.
Viral safety of a new highly purified factor VIII (OCTATE).	The inactivation of both transfusion-relevant and model viruses by modified pasteurisation (10 hours at 63 degrees C in solution) has been evaluated following the established guidelines of the EU CPMP Ad Hoc Working Party on Biotechnology/Pharmacy. This heat treatment was introduced into the manufacturing process of OCTAVI, a very high purity factor VIII concentrate stabilized only by von Willebrand factor, in the presence of a proprietary mixture of low molecular weight stabilizers. Both enveloped (human immunodeficiency virus, Sindbis virus, herpes simplex virus, pseudorabies virus) and nonenveloped viruses (poliovirus, Coxsackievirus, hepatitis A virus) were inactivated by this heating step by more than 4.7 log10. The combination of the solvent/detergent step used in the manufacture of OCTAVI with this modified pasteurization leads to a double virus-inactivated factor VIII concentrate (OCTATE) with a viral safety distinctly superior to monoinactivated products.
Ribonucleotide reductases.	Ribonucleotide reductases provide the building blocks for DNA replication in all living cells. Three different classes of enzymes use protein free radicals to activate the substrate. Aerobic class I enzymes generate a tyrosyl radical with an iron-oxygen center and dioxygen, class II enzymes employ adenosylcobalamin, and the anaerobic class III enzymes generate a glycyl radical from S-adenosylmethionine and an iron-sulfur cluster. The X-ray structure of the class I Escherichia coli enzyme, including forms that bind substrate and allosteric effectors, confirms previous models of catalytic and allosteric mechanisms. This structure suggests considerable mobility of the protein during catalysis and, together with experiments involving site-directed mutants, suggests a mechanism for radical transfer from one subunit to the other. Despite large differences between the classes, common catalytic and allosteric mechanisms, as well as retention of critical residues in the protein sequence, suggest a similar tertiary structure and a common origin during evolution. One puzzling aspect is that some organisms contain the genes for several different reductases.
Type I interferon gene expression: differential expression of IFN-A genes induced by viruses and double-stranded RNA.	The family of interferon regulatory transcription factors (IRF) participates in the virus-induced and dsRNA-stimulated transcriptional regulation of either type I IFN genes or a definite set of genes which can also be activated by IFN. In this review, we place emphasis on the role of IRF-3 that associates with the coactivators CBP and/or p300, together or not with IRF-7. These complexes bind to the PRDI, PRDI-like domains or to a number of ISRE sequences located in the promoter of these virus-inducible genes. We also discuss the involvement of the IRF-3-related complexes in the differential regulation of IFN-A genes.
The origin and evolution of viruses (a review).	Viroids and prions might have existed early at the border of inanimate and living worlds. Most extant viruses can be characterized as derivatives of ancestors originating from episomal elements of prokaryotes (DNA phages) and later from eukaryotes. Retroviruses very likely originated from cellular retrotransposons. Retrograde evolution of some large viruses from obligatory intracellular bacteria is possible but the ontogenesis of extant bacteria does not include a viral form of existence (the filterable L forms are not viruses) and well-defined viruses do not regenerate back into vegetative bacterial forms. Biologists experimenting with the evolution of prokaryotic and eukaryotic ancient cells cannot ignore the earliest appearance of viruses within or outside the living matter. Viruses participated in and gave direction to the evolution and natural selection by coexisting with uni- and multicellular organisms for billions of years. The coevolution of viruses and their host cells is characterized by incessant attacks and counterattacks through gene rearrangements and mutations (induced in the virus by an immunological counterattack of the host or by transgression of species barriers by the virus) and recombinations. Recombinations occurred between viral and viral or viral and host genes. Acts of "molecular piracy" as practiced by ancient viruses endowed the virus with the expression of several host genes for the advantage of the virus in its replicative cycle and host-to-host spread. Probably the first immortalized and malignantly transformed cells were induced by viruses as viruses evolved anti-apoptotic measures. While infected cells resort to apoptotic death before the assembly of a new viral progeny, prominent are the anti-apoptotic measures viruses evolved in order to assure the completion of their full replicative cycle. Further, viruses may escape neutralization by host antibodies and may survive a counterattack by the host's T cells directed at virally infected cells of its own. Viruses may induce a form of tolerance and coexist with their host without inducing disease. Persistent and apparently or deceivingly apathogenic or even attenuated viral "quasi-species" populations may contain individual particles that regain virulence due to recombinations and/or gene rearrangements, especially when transgressing species barriers. Xenotropic viruses of animals may replicate in human cells and vice versa confounding experiments with xenotransplants or with use of veterinary viral vaccines for the treatment of human diseases.
