Effect of batch-process solar disinfection on survival of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts in drinking water.	The results of batch-process solar disinfection (SODIS) of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts in water are reported. Oocyst suspensions were exposed to simulated sunlight (830 W m(-2)) at 40 degrees C. Viability assays (4',6'-diamidino-2-phenylindole [DAPI]/propidium iodide and excystation) and infectivity tests (Swiss CD-1 suckling mice) were performed. SODIS exposures of 6 and 12 h reduced oocyst infectivity from 100% to 7.5% (standard deviation = 2.3) and 0% (standard deviation = 0.0), respectively.
Blue and red light modulates SigB-dependent gene transcription, swimming motility and invasiveness in Listeria monocytogenes.	In a number of gram-positive bacteria, including Listeria, the general stress response is regulated by the alternative sigma factor B (SigB). Common stressors which lead to the activation of SigB and the SigB-dependent regulon are high osmolarity, acid and several more. Recently is has been shown that also blue and red light activates SigB in Bacillus subtilis.
Bone sterilization by radiation and the HIV virus]	An experimental study was performed to investigate the efficacy of irradiating HIV-contaminated allografts. Irradiation was achieved using an accelerator delivering 6.3 MeV electrons, and the viral strain was HIV-1/LAV-1. At an activity equivalent to 600.000 counts of reverse transcriptase activity per minute and per millilitre, irradiation permitted total inactivation of HIV. In the light of present data concerning plasma viremia in HIV-infected patients, this experiment suggested that irradiation minimizes as far as possible the risk of transmitting HIV infection through bone transplantation from a seronegative, contaminant donor. However, in view of the relative imprecision of viral sensitivity curves, irradiation does not authorize bone transplantation from a seropositive patient, even though the bone has been irradiated.
The microbiological diagnosis of tuberculosis in areas under strict radiation control]	Mycobacterial variability was studied in active tuberculosis patients from radioactive contamination area subject to close radiation control. For such areas it was noted that the patients discharge altered coccoid mycobacteria stained with routine luminescent dyes. Biological investigations of freshly isolated strains revealed potentiation of M. tuberculosis virulence in patients with respiratory tuberculosis. A large number of patients from the contaminated areas against control demonstrated primary resistance to rifampicin and isoniazid.
Influence of irradiation on the risk of HIV virus transmission by bone allograft]	The purpose of this study was to determine, when assuming the worst case scenario of bone contamination, the sterility assurance level in bone transplantation treated by irradiation and after donor screening.
