Expression of NADPH-diaphorase and colocalization with Fos in the brain neurons of the rat following visceral noxious stimulation.	We used double staining immunocytochemical techniques to determine whether nitric oxide (NO) and Fos immunoreactivity induced by noxious visceral stimulation were colocalized in the neurons of the supraspinal areas. We observed a considerable increase in Fos-positive neurons in many brain areas after noxious stimulation but only 15% of the Fos-positive neurons colocalized Nicotinamide Adenine Dinucleotide Phosphate Diaphorase (NADPH-d). The NADPH-d positive cells showed perikarya and cytoplasmic processes laying next to or more frequently apposed to Fos-positive neurons. This anatomical finding supported the hypothesis that also at supraspinal level NO is released near the neurons specifically activated and diffuses through the source cells to act on adjacent neurons playing a role in the central processing of pain transmission and modulation.
Ileocecal valve insufficiency as visceral sign of undifferentiated connective tissue dysplasia]	To study prevalence of markers of connective tissue dysplasia (CTD) in patients with primary insufficiency of ileocecal valve (PIIV).
High cervical midline punctate myelotomy in the management of visceral pain in the mouse.	Increasing evidence implies the existence of a visceral pain pathway in the dorsal column of the spinal cord. Limited midline myelotomy has been used to treat intractable pelvic cancer pain. However, no obvious evidence has been provided that high cervical punctate midline myelotomy (CPMM) relieves visceral pain originating from the abdomen. This study was designed to examine the pain relief effect of CPMM in a mouse model of visceral pain. Thirty-six Institute of Cancer Research (ICR) mice were divided into three groups: Group 1, healthy controls; Group 2, treated with CPMM at C1 and C2; and Group 3, a sham group that underwent laminectomy at C1 and C2 without CPMM. All animals were tested for antinociception in the writhing test 24 hours after surgery. Visceral pain-related behaviors were counted from 5-20 minutes after intraperitoneal injection of 0.6% acetic acid. Writhing test scores were not significantly different between Groups 1 (56.7 +/- 10.7) and 3 (50.7 +/- 17.4). However, Group 2 (30.0 +/- 14.3) showed more than 40% antinociception after treatment, and writhing test scores were significantly different from those of Groups 1 and 3 (p < 0.001). Our results confirm that midline punctate myelotomy can relieve visceral pain and imply that there is a pathway in the posterior funiculus that signals visceral pain. Punctate midline myelotomy at the cervical or high thoracic level may be an alternative strategy in the management of intractable visceral pain due to abdominal or pelvic cancers.
Management of thoracoabdominal aneurysm type IV.	Thoracoabdominal aneurysm type IV (TAA IV) represents only a minority of aortic aneurysms, but as it is an entirely abdominally located aneurysm, vascular surgeons are likely to see such aneurysms in their practice. The current surgical management of TAA IV is reviewed.
Visceral sensitivity and symptoms in patients with constipation- or diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS): effect of a low-fat intraduodenal infusion.	Visceral hypersensitivity is common in Irritable Bowel Syndrome (IBS) patients, and symptoms exacerbate postprandially. Yet the effects of nutrients on visceral sensitivity and symptoms in these patients have not been fully explored.
Clinical symptomatology of epileptic seizures of temporal origin]	Many discrepancies still exist in the description of clinical symptoms and signs attributable to a paroxysmal disorganization of temporal structures. They result from various methodological appraisals of clinical, electrophysiological and neuroradiological data concerning partial epilepsies. However a study of anatomo-electroclinical correlations in temporal seizures yield an easy pattern when the methods of elaboration, the criteria of validity and their meaning are strictly defined. An analysis of temporal seizures, recorded, filmed and described clinically in 300 patients having had a pre-surgical SEEG examination is the basis of a proposed classification of their main clinical features. The structures supposed to be ictally disorganized are, for each category, as follows: simple and complex visual and auditory hallucinations and illusions are due to a discharge beginning in the temporal-occipital or superior (posterior or anterior) temporal cortex. Memory troubles like dreamy-state are due to a simultaneous impairment of some neo-cortical areas and of Ammon's horn. Instinctive-affective troubles, like genital and sexual signs, or symptoms, emotional, mood, affective troubles seem to be linked to discharges in hippocampal and juxta-insular, internal perisylvian areas. Autonomous (cardiac, digestive, etc.) troubles are linked to a disorganization of basal limbic structures and especially of the perisylvian cortex. Motor and verbal automatisms have different meanings: only chewing is due to a discharge in the amygdalian area and in its hypothalamic efferents. Cognitive impairment is difficult to classify.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Artificial ureteral calculosis in rats: behavioural characterization of visceral pain episodes and their relationship with referred lumbar muscle hyperalgesia.	In a rat model of artificial ureteral calculosis, the aim of the study was to characterize the behavioural manifestations of direct visceral pain and to evaluate the relationship between number, duration and complexity of the visceral episodes and the extent of referred lumbar muscular hyperalgesia. As evidenced by non-stop video-tape recordings over 4-14 days, almost 98% of stone-implanted rats showed episodes similar to the writhing behaviour characteristic of noxious visceral stimulation in animals. From one rat to another, these episodes varied from very few (1-3) to a very high number (+/- 60), lasted a few minutes to over 45 min and were of variable complexity, as evaluated via an arbitrary scale on the basis of the combination of movements. Their number and duration decreased significantly, in a linear fashion, as time passed after the operation, so that they were mostly concentrated during the first 3 days. Number, duration and complexity of episodes were reduced by chronic treatment with morphine in a dose-dependent fashion. Stone-implanted rats displaying visceral episodes also showed hyperalgesia of the ipsilateral oblique musculature, as evidenced by a decrease in the vocalization threshold to electrical muscle stimulation, which was maximum on the first 3-4 days after implantation but lasted up to 10 days. The visceral episodes and the muscle hyperalgesia showed a strict relationship of interdependence: a significant, direct linear correlation was found between number and duration of episodes and tendency to also develop a contralateral muscle hyperalgesia. By applying the results of the study to the interpretation of human pathology, referred lumbar muscle hyperalgesia from ureteral calculosis would appear to be a strict function of the colic pain experienced.
The inhibitory effects of stimulating AC, AL, BNST and AHL on visceral pain]	We took the unit discharges of the neurons in the posterior group of thalamic nuclei (PO) caused by stimulating the great splanchnic nerve (GSN) as an indicator of visceral pain. We searched for the effects of electrical stimulating central nucleus of amygdala (AC), lateral nucleus of amygdala (AL), bed nucleus of striae terminalis (BNST) and lateral area of hypothalmus (AHL) on unit discharges of PO and the relationship among these nucleuses. The result indicated that the inhibitory effects were strongest with stimulating AC, the next was with stimulating AHL, then BNST and AL. The inhibitory percentages were 85.7% (AC), 62.9% (AHL), 53.1% (BNST) and 54.2% (AL) respectively. The inhibitory effects of stimulating AC couldn't be canceled by injecting naloxone intravenously. AC may be more important for the antinociceptive system than AL, BNST and AHL. There was no relationship between AC and BNST on the inhibition of unit discharges. The inhibitory effects of stimulating AL may be related to AC.
Characterization of neurons in the area of the medullary lateral reticular nucleus responsive to noxious visceral and cutaneous stimuli.	In halothane-anesthetized rats, 283 caudal medullary neurons responsive to colorectal distension (CRD) were characterized using extracellular electrodes. Neurons inhibited by CRD (n = 82) were in the area dorsal to the lateral reticular nucleus (LRN). Most neurons excited by CRD (n = 130) were located within or immediately adjacent to the LRN, were excited by noxious heat and/or noxious pinch of at least half the body surface and were called bilateral nociceptive specific (bNS) neurons. bNS neurons had accelerating responses to graded CRD (threshold: 20 +/- 2 mmHg). Ten of twelve bNS neurons tested could be antidromically activated by electrical stimulation of the midline cerebellum. Other neurons excited by CRD (n = 71) had mixed responses to cutaneous stimuli and were generally located in the area dorsal to the LRN. Increases in blood pressure due to intravenous phenylephrine did not significantly alter the spontaneous activity of neurons excited by CRD, but altered spontaneous activity (12 excited, four inhibited) in all neurons tested which were inhibited by CRD. Decreases in blood pressure produced by intravenous nitroprusside produced a reciprocal response in most neurons inhibited by CRD and had a delayed onset (20-30 s after bolus administration) excitatory effect on 21 of 27 units excited by CRD. Combined with other studies, these data suggest a role for neurons within and adjacent to the LRN in the modulation of visceral nociception. They also implicate a role for the cerebellum in visceral nociceptive processing.
