Effects of electrical stimulation of thalamic nucleus submedius and periaqueductal gray on the visceral nociceptive responses of spinal dorsal horn neurons in the rat.	Electrical stimulation of the nucleus submedius (Sm) has been shown to suppress the viscerosomatic reflex (VSR), which is evoked by colorectal distension (CRD). We have examined the effects of focal electrical stimulation (0.3 ms, 50 Hz, 100 microA, 10 s) of the Sm and the periaqueductal gray (PAG) on the excitatory responses evoked by CRD in spinal dorsal horn neurons within the L6-S1 region in the urethane-anesthetized Wistar rats. Extracellular recordings were made from 32 spinal excitatory CRD responses. All of these neurons were convergent neurons with cutaneous receptive fields. The majority of the neurons (27/32) were wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons (responding to noxious and non-noxious cutaneous stimuli) while the remaining five neurons were nociceptive specific (NS) neurons (responding only to noxious cutaneous stimuli). The effects of electrical stimulation applied to 28 sites within the Sm were assessed for spinal neurons. Electrical stimulation in seven sites within the Sm (25%) inhibited the CRD excitatory response of dorsal horn neurons, while in two sites (7%) the same stimulation yielded facilitation. Electrical stimulation in the majority of the sites in the Sm (19/28, 68%) did not affect spinal excitatory CRD responses. On the other hand, electrical stimulation of the PAG clearly inhibited 20 of 22 (90%) CRD excitatory responses. These results suggest that the majority of Sm neurons may suppress VSR activity at a supraspinal reflex center rather than via a descending inhibition of spinal visceral nociceptive transmission, as is the case for the PAG.
Sex-related differences in IBS patients: central processing of visceral stimuli.	Women have a higher prevalence of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and possible differences in response to treatment, suggesting sex-related differences in underlying pathophysiology. The aim of this study was to determine possible sex-related differences in brain responses to a visceral and a psychological stressor in IBS.
Demythologizing the emotions: adaptation, cognition, and visceral representations of emotion in the nervous system.	This article highlights four issues about the neurobiology of emotions: adaptation vs. dysfunction, peripheral and central representations of emotion, the regulation of the internal milieu, and whether emotions are cognitive. It is argued that the emotions evolved to play diverse adaptive roles and are biologically vital sources of information processing. They were not designed as pieces of pathology, though they certainly can underlie some psychophathologies. Emotions are, in part, appraisal systems that are operative at numerous level of the nervous system from the brainstem to the cortex. Like other information processing systems they are not perfect cognitive systems. Emotional systems often utilize somatic and visceral information for appraisals of events to facilitate decisions of whether to approach or avoid objects. The neural systems of emotions traverse the entire neural axis and are linked to the regulation of the internal milieu. Thus, in addition to the experiential aspects of emotions, emotions embody appraisal systems that are pervasive to all levels of the brain to facilitate function, adaptation, and survival.
Muscle fractional protein synthesis is higher in Iberian than in Landrace growing pigs fed adequate or lysine-deficient diets.	Protein deposition in Iberian pigs is low and the reasons for this are unknown. We investigated differences in protein synthesis rate in tissues of 30 Iberian and Landrace gilts fed 2 diets with adequate amino acid composition containing 160 or 120 g crude protein (CP)/kg, or a lysine-deficient diet (containing 120 or 160 g CP/kg for Iberian and Landrace pigs, respectively). Pigs were infused with a flooding dose of phenylalanine (15% as [(2)H(5)]-phenylalanine). Blood samples were taken from 12 to 40 min after the start of infusion, and samples from longissimus dorsi (ld), biceps femoris (bf), and semimembranosus (sm) muscles, liver, and duodenum were taken after slaughter. Body weights (BW) were 22.9 +/- 0.37 and 27.1 +/- 0.64 kg for Iberian and Landrace pigs, respectively. Iberian pigs fed the adequate diets had higher muscle fractional protein synthesis rates (FSR, %/d) than Landrace pigs. The FSR were 7.9 +/- 0.34 vs. 6.3 +/- 0.29%/d; 8.3 +/- 0.36 vs. 6.3 +/- 0.21%/d, and 7.7 +/- 0.23 vs. 6.4 +/- 0.36%/d for ld, bf, and sm muscles in Iberian and Landrace breeds, respectively (P < 0.01). However, muscles were between 20 and 32% smaller in the Iberian pigs (P < 0.01). Dietary protein level did not affect muscle FSR or size in either breed. Lysine deficiency reduced muscle FSR (46-49%, P < 0.001). Visceral tissues had greater relative weights in Iberian pigs (P < 0.001) with no breed differences in FSR. These findings might explain the low efficiency of protein and energy utilization by Iberian pigs compared with conventional pig breeds.
Visceral drives in retrospect: explanations about the inaccessible past.	The present research demonstrates that the extent to which people appreciate the influence past visceral states have had on behavior (e.g., the influence hunger has had on food choice) depends largely on their current visceral state. Specifically, we found that when people were in a hot state (e.g., fatigued), they attributed behavior primarily to visceral influences, whereas when people were in a cold state (e.g., nonfatigued), they underestimated the influence of visceral drives and instead attributed behavior primarily to other, nonvisceral factors. This hot-cold empathy gap was observed when people made attributions about the past behavior of another person or themselves, and proved difficult to overcome, as participants could not correct for the biasing influence of their current visceral state when instructed to do so. These different attribution patterns also had consequences for people's satisfaction with their performance. Those who attributed their poor performance to visceral factors were more satisfied than those who made dispositional attributions.
Multi-scale computational model of fuel homeostasis during exercise: effect of hormonal control.	A mathematical model of the whole-body metabolism is developed to predict fuel homeostasis during exercise by using hormonal control over cellular metabolic processes. The whole body model is composed of seven tissue compartments: brain, heart, liver, GI (gastrointestinal) tract, skeletal muscle, adipose tissue, and "other tissues". Each tissue compartment is described by dynamic mass balances and major cellular metabolic reactions. The glucagon-insulin controller is incorporated into the whole body model to predict hormonal changes during exercise. Moderate [150 W power output at 60% of peak oxygen consumption (VO(2max))] exercise for 60 min was implemented by increasing ATP utilization rates in heart and skeletal muscle. Arterial epinephrine level was given as an input function, which directly affects heart and skeletal muscle metabolism and indirectly other tissues via glucagon-insulin controller. Model simulations were validated with experimental data from human exercise studies. The exercise induced changes in hormonal signals modulated metabolic flux rates of different tissues in a coordinated way to achieve glucose homeostasis, demonstrating the efficacy of hormonal control over cellular metabolic processes. From experimental measurements of whole body glucose balance and arterial substrate concentrations, this model could predict the dynamic changes of hepatic glycogenolysis and gluconeogenesis, which are not easy to measure experimentally, suggesting the higher contribution of glycogenolysis ( approximately 75%). In addition, it could provide dynamic information on the relative contribution of carbohydrates and lipids for fuel oxidation in skeletal muscle. Model simulations indicate that external fuel supplies from other tissue/organ systems to skeletal muscle become important for prolonged exercise emphasizing the significance of interaction among tissues. In conclusion, this model can be used as a valuable complement to experimental studies due to its ability to predict what is difficult to measure directly, and usefulness to provide information about dynamic behaviors.
The sleep and the visceral function control]	The review focuses on rapidly growing body of data indicating that disturbances of the natural sleep and sleep deprivation lead to various visceral disorders. The review mentions consequences of sleep disturbances on the gastro-intestinal system, cardio-vascular and respiratory, immune, endocrine and reproductive functions. In order to establish the functional link between the sleep and the visceral health it is proposed that during sleep the central nervous system including all cortical areas switches from the processing of the exteroceptive information to the processing of the interoceptive information. Review of the studies, which offer the direct confirmation of this hypothesis, is presented.
Viscera and muscle protein synthesis in neonatal pigs is increased more by intermittent bolus than by continuous feeding.	Continuous and intermittent bolus orogastric feedings are strategies used in infants unable to tolerate normal feeds.
