Effects on depth perception and pattern recognition in random dot stereograms by changing the matrix dot density]	Julesz named the ability of depth perception in random dot stereograms as "global stereopsis". At present there are only high-density random dot stereograms with different disparities in use in the ophthalmological practice. The aim of our exploration is to measure the effects on pattern recognition and depth perception by thinning out the dot density in random dot stereograms down to very low levels (< 1%).
Electro-mechanic steering device for head-lamp mounted miniature video cameras]	Endoscopic or microscopic video recordings set a widely established standard for medico-legal documentation of operative procedures. In addition, they are an essential part of undergraduate as well as postgraduate medical education. Macroscopic operations in the head and neck can be recorded by miniaturised video cameras attached to the surgeon's head lamp.
Voluntary head movement and allocentric perception of space.	Although visual input is egocentric, at least some visual perceptions and representations are allocentric, that is, independent of the observer's vantage point or motion. Three experiments investigated the visual perception of three-dimensional object motion during voluntary and involuntary motion in human subjects. The results show that the motor command contributes to the objective perception of space: Observers are more likely to apply, consciously and unconsciously, spatial criteria relative to an allocentric frame of reference when they are executing voluntary head movements than while they are undergoing similar involuntary displacements (which lead to a more egocentric bias). Furthermore, details of the motor command are crucial to spatial vision, as allocentric bias decreases or disappears when self-motion and motor command do not match.
Motion distorts perceived depth.	Two important tasks that the visual system has to perform are determining the direction of motion and the spatial location of objects. It has recently been shown that the perceived location of an object moving in the frontal-plane is displaced along the direction of motion (e.g. Nature 397 (1999) 610; Vision Research 31 (1991) 1619). The aim of the present study is to examine the extent of this interaction between motion and perceived location. The observers' task was to indicate which of two vertically separated moving stimuli was closer. The two stimuli were presented at various relative disparity offsets. The stimuli consisted of moving dot patterns (optic-flow) that simulated either fronto-parallel motion (all the dots moved one direction) or motion in depth. Motion of the dots towards the centre of the stimulus simulated object motion away from the observer and motion of the dots away from the centre of the stimulus simulated object motion towards the observer. Results indicate that motion-in-depth information can bias perceived stereoscopic-based depth. Simulated motion towards the observer made the object appear closer to the observer than the depth signalled by the disparity information and simulated motion away from the observer made it seem further away. The results of this study, when combined with those of previous studies, show that motion can distort our entire three dimensional representation of space.
Geometric and induced effects in binocular stereopsis and motion parallax.	This paper examines and contrasts motion-parallax analogues of the induced-size and induced-shear effects with the equivalent induced effects from binocular disparity. During lateral head motion or with binocular stereopsis, vertical-shear and vertical-size transformations produced 'induced effects' of apparent inclination and slant that are not predicted geometrically. With vertical head motion, horizontal-shear and horizontal-size transformations produced similar analogues of the disparity induced effects. Typically, the induced effects were opposite in direction and slightly smaller in size than the geometric effects. Local induced-shear and induced-size effects could be elicited from motion parallax, but not from disparity, and were most pronounced when the stimulus contained discontinuities in velocity gradient. The implications of these results are discussed in the context of models of depth perception from disparity and structure from motion.
Interaction between luminance gratings and disparity gratings.	It was shown from geometry and photographic measurement that the shading pattern for a sinusoidal corrugated surface of frequency f approximates to a luminance-defined grating of frequency f, 2f or f + 2f in specific relative phase. It was confirmed that a luminance grating modifies the appearance of a suprathreshold stereoscopic corrugated surface, suggesting an interaction between shading and binocular disparity. Disparity thresholds for detecting random-dot, disparity-defined gratings of spatial frequency 0.2 or 0.4 c/deg were measured in the presence of luminance gratings of spatial frequency 0.4 c/deg with the same orientation. Phase-specific facilitation of disparity thresholds was greatest for a phase relationship inconsistent with shading of a corrugated surface, and was disrupted by positional uncertainty. The presence of texture-defined lines (which served to mark explicitly the successive spatial locations of salient depth features in the image) produced a similar pattern of facilitation, in the absence of shape-from-shading cues. The pattern of results indicates direct local interactions, including spatial cueing, rather than interaction of depth cues.
The importance of perceived relative motion in the control of posture.	Two experiments investigated the role of optic flow in controlling posture. Both experiments measured postural sway in two virtual environments with different 3-D structure but the same optic flow. Observers attempted to maintain balance on one foot while viewing an object that appeared either rigid with respect to the environment or that appeared to move concomitantly with head movements. The apparent object motion concomitant with head motion was achieved by changing the perceived, but not physical, depth of the object. For both objects, the optic flow information was the same and only depth information was varied. Observers showed a decrease in stability (as measured by head sway) when viewing the object that appeared to move, suggesting that perceived relative motion, not optic flow, signals self-motion to the postural control system.
New developments in the application of the multimeridional apparent frontoparallel plane.	This study is a sequel to a previous publication that introduced the multimeridional apparent frontoparallel plane (MAFPP) as a method of measuring aniseikonia. As the term implies, apparent frontoparallel plane (AFPP) responses are obtained not only in the horizontal meridian, but also in oblique meridians. Since the introductory publication, the method has been applied extensively for measuring aniseikonia and has been found to be reliable, accurate, and easily adapted to clinical purposes. This study presents a more detailed and comprehensive account of the underlying theory than did the introductory report. It clarifies some problems inherent in the method originally presented and describes a simplified and improved procedure for measuring aniseikonia. It describes the application of the theory to a number of specific clinical situations. Finally, it is suggested that the method has a much broader application than the clinical measurement of aniseikonia.
Clinical measurement of depth perception by means of motion parallax: a case report.	An automated 2-rod stereoacuity test was modified to permit lateral head movement during testing so that depth perception by means of motion parallax could be assessed. The patient, a 48-year-old truck driver with one blind eye, found the test easy to perform. In 24 presentations of a 40 sec arc disparity he was 96% correct. With the same number of presentations at 20 sec arc he was 83% correct. In the latter case, the probability of success by chance alone was p = 0.0004.
Non-invasive phakometric measurement of corneal and crystalline lens alignment in human eyes.	We describe a non-invasive phakometric method for determining corneal axis rotation relative to the visual axis (beta) together with crystalline lens axis tilt (alpha) and decentration (d) relative to the corneal axis. This does not require corneal contact A-scan ultrasonography for the measurement of intraocular surface separations. Theoretical inherent errors of the method, evaluated by ray tracing through schematic eyes incorporating the full range of human ocular component variations, were found to be larger than the measurement errors (beta < 0.67 degrees , alpha < 0.72 degrees and d < 0.08 mm) observed in nine human eyes with known ocular component dimensions. Intersubject variations (mean +/- S.D.: beta = 6.2 +/- 3.4 degrees temporal, alpha = 0.2 +/- 1.8 degrees temporal and d = 0.1 +/- 0.1 mm temporal) and repeatability (1.96 x S.D. of difference between repeat readings: beta +/- 2.0 degrees , alpha +/- 1.8 degrees and d +/- 0.2 mm) were studied by measuring the left eyes of 45 subjects (aged 18-42 years, 29 females and 16 males, 15 Caucasians, 29 Indian Asians, one African, refractive error range -7.25 to +1.25 D mean spherical equivalent) on two occasions.
Comparison of near heterophoria tests under varying conditions on an adult sample.	This study compared the near phoria measurement using the Bernell muscle balance card with and without prism neutralization, using both trial frame and phoropter correction, and compared with the conventional Maddox rod method.
Interpreting the multifocal visual evoked potential: the effects of refractive errors, cataracts, and fixation errors.	To understand how refractive errors, cataracts, and fixation errors affect multifocal visual evoked potential (mfVEP) responses.
Greater depth seen with phantom stereopsis is coded at the early stages of visual processing.	A visual search task was used to investigate the spatially parallel coding of depth from binocular disparity and from binocularly unmatched features. Experiment 1, using disparity noise, showed that detectability is higher for illusory phantom targets defined by unmatched features than for disparity-defined targets, although the two targets were equated as to theoretically minimum depth. Experiment 2, using binocularly unmatched noise whose width was equal to the disparity of the noise used in Experiment 1, showed that noise severely interferes with the detection of both the disparity and the phantom targets. These results are consistent with the idea that the greater depth seen with phantom stereopsis is coded at the early stages of visual processing.
Prism adaptation for esotropia with a distance-near disparity.	A series of 64 patients who had surgery for esotropia with a distance-near disparity of at least 10 prism diopters was reviewed. Thirty-three patients were prism adapted for their distance deviation (PA distance). Thirty-one patients were prism adapted for near deviation (PA near). Both groups were divided into responders and nonresponders. In the PA distance group, 22 (67%) patients were responders. All responders had surgery for their prism-adapted angle. Postoperatively, 19 (86%) responders had fusion. Thirteen (68%) required bifocals to maintain fusion. In the PA near group, 21 (68%) patients were responders. All responders had surgery for their prism-adapted angle. Ninety-four percent of responders had fusion postoperatively. None needed bifocals for fusion postoperatively and none were overcorrected. The results show that those patients who were prism adapted for their near angle, responded with fusion, and had surgery for their full amount of esotropia at prism response obtained better postoperative fusion, without the need for a bifocal at near and without overcorrection at distance.
Treatment of esotropia with anomalous correspondence: a case report.	Management of anomalous correspondence in esotropia has been a controversial topic until recently. This case report presents a sequential treatment regimen which resulted in a successful binocular result for the patient. The implementation of overcorrecting prism, vision therapy/orthoptics, and extraocular muscle surgery is covered in the discussion of management strategies.
Spatial interactions in binocular rivalry.	Observers tracked binocular rivalry between a pair of small, foveally viewed gratings whose orientation differed between the 2 eyes. In Experiment 1, a textured annulus surrounding 1 eye's grating increased the total duration of exclusive visibility of the grating only when the grating-annulus separation was less than 0.5 degree. In Experiment 2, observers tracked the visibility of a monocular annulus that surrounded a foveally viewed grating that was either engaged in rivalry or fused with a grating alone viewed by the other eye. The visibility of the annulus was greater when the grating it surrounded was not undergoing rivalry fluctuations. In Experiment 3, the predominance of a rival grating was greater when the contours in the surrounding annulus were orthogonal to those of the rival grating. In Experiment 4, total exclusive visibility of a given grating-annulus target was greater when the grating and the annulus contained the same orientation.
Mental rotation, physical rotation, and surface media.	Subjects made mirror-normal discriminations on alphanumeric characters shown in different orientations in the picture plane. Either the characters or the background rotated during stimulus presentation in Experiments 1-3. Character rotation in the direction of mental rotation facilitated mental rotation, whereas rotation in the opposite direction inhibited it. In Experiment 4, characters were presented in different surface media so as to stimulate only one representation at a time. Mental rotation performance was similar whether the stimuli were defined by luminance, color, texture, relative motion, or binocular disparity, suggesting that mental rotation occurs at a level beyond that of the independent analyses of these different media. These results support those of Experiments 1-3 in excluding the participation of low-level motion analysis centers in the mental rotation processes.
Psychophysical experiments and a neural network model of binocular rivalry.	The alternation process in binocular rivalry was examined by psychophysical experiments. The stimulus strength to the central part of the visual field in one eye was varied while the stimulus strength in the other eye remained constant. The data obtained by the experiments indicate that the variations in stimulus strength alter the mean dominance duration, variance and predominance, and the frequency histogram of the dominance duration almost fits to the gamma distribution. To explain these results, a model which consists of neural elements receiving impulse trains with stochastic fluctuations is proposed and the experimental results are simulated on a computer using the model. Although the present model is restricted to explain only the rivalry between two lines which have different orientations, we could obtain agreement between the simulation results and the experimental results by giving appropriate values for some parameters of the model.
Noise causes slant underestimation in stereo and motion.	This paper discusses a problem, which is inherent in the estimation of 3D shape (surface normals) from multiple views. Noise in the image signal causes bias, which may result in substantial errors in the parameter estimation. The bias predicts the underestimation of slant found in psychophysical and computational experiments. Specifically, we analyze the estimation of 3D shape from motion and stereo using orientation disparity. For the case of stereo, we show that bias predicts the anisotropy in the perception of horizontal and vertical slant. For the case of 3D motion we demonstrate the bias by means of a new illusory display. Finally, we discuss statistically optimal strategies for the problem and suggest possible avenues for visual systems to deal with the bias.
Reduced occipital regional volumes at term predict impaired visual function in early childhood in very low birth weight infants.	Premature infants are at increased risk of impaired visual performance related to both cortical and subcortical pathways for oculomotor control. The hypothesis for the current study was that preterm infants with impaired saccades, smooth pursuit, and binocular eye alignment at age 2 years would have smaller occipital brain volumes at term equivalent, as measured by volumetric magnetic resonance (MR) techniques, than would preterm infants without such abnormalities.
Strength and coherence of binocular rivalry depends on shared stimulus complexity.	Presenting incompatible images to the eyes results in alternations of conscious perception, a phenomenon known as binocular rivalry. We examined rivalry using either simple stimuli (oriented gratings) or coherent visual objects (faces, houses etc). Two rivalry characteristics were measured: Depth of rivalry suppression and coherence of alternations. Rivalry between coherent visual objects exhibits deep suppression and coherent rivalry, whereas rivalry between gratings exhibits shallow suppression and piecemeal rivalry. Interestingly, rivalry between a simple and a complex stimulus displays the same characteristics (shallow and piecemeal) as rivalry between two simple stimuli. Thus, complex stimuli fail to rival globally unless the fellow stimulus is also global. We also conducted a face adaptation experiment. Adaptation to rivaling faces improved subsequent face discrimination (as expected), but adaptation to a rivaling face/grating pair did not. To explain this, we suggest rivalry must be an early and local process (at least initially), instigated by the failure of binocular fusion, which can then become globally organized by feedback from higher-level areas when both rivalry stimuli are global, so that rivalry tends to oscillate coherently. These globally assembled images then flow through object processing areas, with the dominant image gaining in relative strength in a form of 'biased competition', therefore accounting for the deeper suppression of global images. In contrast, when only one eye receives a global image, local piecemeal suppression from the fellow eye overrides the organizing effects of global feedback to prevent coherent image formation. This indicates the primacy of local over global processes in rivalry.
Dichoptic motion perception limited to depth of fixation?	When counterphase spatio-temporal flicker is presented to the left and right eye continuous directional motion can be perceived. Here, we investigate whether this type of dichoptic motion can be observed at different depth planes. Four observers indicated direction of motion for dichoptic motion stimuli, presented in a context containing crossed and uncrossed disparity information in different conditions. Our results show that despite the presence of disparity cues in the stimulus, discrimination of motion direction remained maximal at interocular phase offsets that correspond to binocular motion perception at zero disparity. This constraint brings into question perception of dichoptic motion as the result of an early binocular motion system. We compared our results with predictions of a computational stereo-motion model [Qian, N. (1994). Computing stereo disparity and motion with known binocular cell properties. Neural Computations, 6, 390-404; Qian, N., & Andersen, R. A. (1997). A physiological model for motion-stereo integration and a unified explanation of Pulfrich-like phenomena. Vision Research, 37, 1683-1698]. In contrast to our empirical results, simulations of cell activation in this hybrid energy model predict maximal activation at non-zero disparities. It is concluded that perception of dichoptic motion is a by-product of early interocular combination at low contrasts rather than the result of a dedicated stereo-motion system.
Interocular interactions during acuity measurement in children and adults, and in adults with amblyopia.	The binocular interactions that occur during dichoptic and binocular viewing were investigated using a letter acuity task in normally sighted children (age range 6-14 years) and adults, and in adults with anisometropic amblyopia. Our aims were to investigate the nature of binocular interactions that occur in each group, and the extent to which the characteristics of binocular interactions differ across the groups. The non-tested eye was occluded during monocular (baseline) viewing, and was allowed to view a uniform stimulus with fusion lock in dichoptic viewing. In adults and children with normal vision, acuity under dichoptic viewing was unchanged relative to monocular baseline in the dominant eyes, while acuity of the non-dominant eye improved under dichoptic viewing relative to baseline. The magnitude of dichoptic change in the non-dominant eyes was similar in the two normally sighted groups, but the dichoptic advantage was found to decrease with increasing age within the children tested. Binocular acuity was better than monocular acuity in normal subjects, and a decrease in binocular summation with age was noted within the age range of the children tested. In contrast, the amblyopic observers showed no change in acuity with viewing conditions. The results demonstrate development of interocular interactions during childhood, and wide inter-individual variation in pattern of interocular interactions among anisometropic amblyopic adults.
Competition between newly recruited and pre-existing visual cues during the construction of visual appearance.	During perception, conflicting visual cues often trade against each other. Recent cue recruitment experiments show that the visual system can be conditioned to use artificial visual cues during the perception of a bistable stimulus. Does the visual system treat the new cue as an independent source of information, separate from the long-trusted cues that were used to train it? If so, presence of the long-trusted cue should not be sufficient to block the new cue's effect. Here, we show that a newly recruited cue (stimulus location) and a long-trusted, pre-existing cue (binocular disparity) trade against each other: they contribute simultaneously to the direction of perceived 3D rotation of a Necker cube. We also show that the new position cue was based primarily on retinal position, so early visual areas may mediate the cue's effect.
The use of direction and distance information in the perception of approach trajectory.	A pair of projectiles travelling on parallel trajectories produce differing patterns of retinal motion when they originate at different distances. For an observer to recognise that the two trajectories are parallel she must "factor out" the effect of distance on retinal motion. The observer faces a similar problem when physically parallel trajectories originate at different lateral positions; here direction must be "factored out". We report the results of a series of experiments designed to determine if observers can do this. The observers' task was to judge whether the direction of travel of an approaching sphere (test trajectory) was to the left or right of parallel to a previously shown trajectory (reference trajectory). In the first set of experiments the reference and test trajectories started from different lateral positions. In the final experiment they started from different distances. From the pattern of judgements we determined a set of perceptually parallel trajectories. Perceptually parallel trajectories deviated significantly from physically parallel. We conclude that under circumstances comparable to those encountered when catching a ball in flight, observers do not have access to accurate estimates of trajectory direction.
Smooth-shape assumption for perceiving shapes from shading.	Humans can perceive three-dimensional shapes from shading, but reconstructing the original shape of an object from shading alone (luminance distribution) is mathematically impossible. Researchers have used different assumptions and reported that the human visual systems can resolve this difficulty. Here, we propose an assumption for perceiving shape from shading: that the object shape is assumed to be smooth rather than angular. In experiment 1, we investigated the effect of shape smoothness by manipulating the shading profile of the test region. In experiment 2, we further investigated the effect of shape smoothness by manipulating shapes of the regions bordering on the test region using binocular disparity. Each stimulus in our experiments is interpretable from shading as having either smooth or angular edges. Observers responded to the perceived shape while viewing the stimuli, and most tended to perceive smooth rather than angular edges. These results support the idea that the smooth-shape assumption is effective for perceiving shape from shading.
Eye vergence is susceptible to the hollow-face illusion.	When an observer looks at a hollow mask of a face, a normal convex face is often perceived [the hollow-face illusion--Gregory 1973, in Illusion in Nature and Art (London: Duckworth) pp 49-96]. We show that in exploring an illusory face, the eyes converge at the illusory and not at the real distances of fixated targets like the tip of the nose. The 'vergence error' appears even though the resulting disparities of the two retinal images of the target provide feedback that would allow an immediate correction. It is presumably the success of recognising a familiar object (a face) which overrides the correction of convergence. This suggests that the brain strives for a congruency of eye vergence and distance perception.
Perceived depth scales with disparity gradient.	Perceived difference in depth between two adjacent stimuli decreases with increasing disparity gradient even if the disparity stays constant, ie when the stimuli approach each other along paths within fronto-parallel planes. This depth scaling effect is more pronounced with line stimuli than with two isolated points or two small symbols and is insignificant for easily discriminable symbols. The decrease in perceived depth is more pronounced for horizontal orientation than for oblique or vertical orientation. The ratio of perceived depth difference to displayed disparity difference also decreases when the distance between the stimuli increases at a constant gradient in depth. This is to say that we are more correct in our depth estimates for steep gradients in depth when the euclidean distance between the stimuli is short.
Parameter learning but not structure learning: a Bayesian network model of constraints on early perceptual learning.	Visual scientists have shown that people are capable of perceptual learning in a large variety of circumstances. Are there constraints on such learning? We propose a new constraint on early perceptual learning, namely, that people are capable of parameter learning-they can modify their knowledge of the prior probabilities of scene variables or of the statistical relationships among scene and perceptual variables that are already considered to be potentially dependent-but they are not capable of structure learning-they cannot learn new relationships among variables that are not considered to be potentially dependent, even when placed in novel environments in which these variables are strongly related. These ideas are formalized using the notation of Bayesian networks. We report the results of five experiments that evaluate whether subjects can demonstrate cue acquisition, which means that they can learn that a sensory signal is a cue to a perceptual judgment. In Experiment 1, subjects were placed in a novel environment that resembled natural environments in the sense that it contained systematic relationships among scene and perceptual variables that which are normally dependent. In this case, cue acquisition requires parameter learning and, as predicted, subjects succeeded in learning a new cue. In Experiments 2-5, subjects were placed in novel environments that did not resemble natural environments-they contained systematic relationships among scene and perceptual variables that are not normally dependent. Cue acquisition requires structure learning in these cases. Consistent with our hypothesis, subjects failed to learn new cues in Experiments 2-5. Overall, the results suggest that the mechanisms of early perceptual learning are biased such that people can only learn new contingencies between scene and sensory variables that are considered to be potentially dependent.
The transient component of disparity vergence maybe an indication of progressive lens acceptability.	Presbyopia, a degenerative condition, which decreases accommodation, sets in approximately at the age of forty. One approach to correct presbyopia is the use of bifocal or progressive lenses. Naturally, some people are more prone to adapt to wearing progressive lenses than others. The vergence system, which controls the inward and outward turning of the eyes, is a system which supports viewing objects in depth. Identifying the two components (transient and sustained components) of a pure vergence eye movement is possible with ICA (independent component analysis). Preliminary results suggest a correlation with the magnitude of the transient component and whether or not a person can adapt to wearing progressive lenses or not. Furthermore, the transient component of vergence is hypothesized to be an index of how flexible the vergence system is in adapting to new environments.
Motion parallax judgements of depth as a function of the direction and type of head movement.	We compared the relative effectiveness of rotating or translating the head, either horizontally or vertically, on the perception of depth resulting from motion parallax. Using Rogers and Graham's (1979) paradigm, we yoked the movement of random dots on a screen to movements of the head, simulating a corrugated surface. In two experiments, subjects nulled the apparent depth or motion seen in the display. Horizontal head movements yielded the most precise depth judgements, irrespective of whether the head translated or rotated. Motion thresholds were higher than those for depth and were independent of direction of head movement. In a third experiment, suprathreshold stimuli that simulated differing amounts of depth were used, and the subjects' perception of depth was virtually the same for all types and directions of head movement. In our stimulus situation, rotating or translating the head either vertically or horizontally produced motion parallax cues for depth that were equally effective. Our results also showed that, within a range, retinal image motion from head movement is converted into a depth signal and that above that range location constancy breaks down and motion is seen.
Proximal vergence and age.	A number of previous investigations have suggested that the relative contribution of proximal vergence to the overall vergence response may increase with age. Accordingly the present study has examined the proximal convergence/test distance (PC/T) ratio in a clinical population of 106 subjects ranging from 6 to 47 years of age. PC/T was assessed by comparing accommodative convergence/accommodative stimulus (AC/As) ratios obtained using the gradient and heterophoria techniques. With the former method, the stimulus to accommodation was produced optically using spherical lenses whereas in the latter technique, the change in accommodative stimulus arose from variation in actual target distance. The difference between these two measurements of AC/As reflected the output of proximal vergence. No significant variation in PC/T was observed with increasing age. It is proposed that increased disparity-vergence, rather than proximal vergence, is more likely to compensate for any age-related decline in AC.
Pitfalls in the determination of distance glasses]	The correct determination of distance glasses depends on a correct objective refraction and a subject determination of power and axis of a possible astigmatism in both a coarse and fine manner. In suitable cases a binocular fine refraction under polarized conditions with a red-green test should be performed. Special considerations have to be taken into account in cases of high unilateral congenital or acquired astigmatism as well as in case of congenital or acquired anisometropia or aniseiconia.
A causal role for V5/MT neurons coding motion-disparity conjunctions in resolving perceptual ambiguity.	Judgments about the perceptual appearance of visual objects require the combination of multiple parameters, like location, direction, color, speed, and depth. Our understanding of perceptual judgments has been greatly informed by studies of ambiguous figures, which take on different appearances depending upon the brain state of the observer. Here we probe the neural mechanisms hypothesized as responsible for judging the apparent direction of rotation of ambiguous structure from motion (SFM) stimuli. Resolving the rotation direction of SFM cylinders requires the conjoint decoding of direction of motion and binocular depth signals [1, 2]. Within cortical visual area V5/MT of two macaque monkeys, we applied electrical stimulation at sites with consistent multiunit tuning to combinations of binocular depth and direction of motion, while the monkey made perceptual decisions about the rotation of SFM stimuli. For both ambiguous and unambiguous SFM figures, rotation judgments shifted as if we had added a specific conjunction of disparity and motion signals to the stimulus elements. This is the first causal demonstration that the activity of neurons in V5/MT contributes directly to the perception of SFM stimuli and by implication to decoding the specific conjunction of disparity and motion, the two different visual cues whose combination drives the perceptual judgment. 
Induced vertical disparity effects on local and global stereopsis.	Although significant amounts of vertical misalignment could have a noticeable effect on visual performance, there is no conclusive evidence about the effect of very small amount of vertical disparity on stereopsis and binocular vision. Hence, the aim of this study was to investigate the effects of induced vertical disparity on local and global stereopsis at near.
Activity in early visual areas predicts interindividual differences in binocular rivalry dynamics.	When dissimilar images are presented to the two eyes, binocular rivalry (BR) occurs, and perception alternates spontaneously between the images. Although neural correlates of the oscillating perception during BR have been found in multiple sites along the visual pathway, the source of BR dynamics is unclear. Psychophysical and modeling studies suggest that both low- and high-level cortical processes underlie BR dynamics. Previous neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the involvement of high-level regions by showing that frontal and parietal cortices responded time locked to spontaneous perceptual alternation in BR. However, a potential contribution of early visual areas to BR dynamics has been overlooked, because these areas also responded to the physical stimulus alternation mimicking BR. In the present study, instead of focusing on activity during perceptual switches, we highlighted brain activity during suppression periods to investigate a potential link between activity in human early visual areas and BR dynamics. We used a strong interocular suppression paradigm called continuous flash suppression to suppress and fluctuate the visibility of a probe stimulus and measured retinotopic responses to the onset of the invisible probe using functional MRI. There were ∼130-fold differences in the median suppression durations across 12 subjects. The individual differences in suppression durations could be predicted by the amplitudes of the retinotopic activity in extrastriate visual areas (V3 and V4v) evoked by the invisible probe. Weaker responses were associated with longer suppression durations. These results demonstrate that retinotopic representations in early visual areas play a role in the dynamics of perceptual alternations during BR.
Stereoscopic depth perception by static stereo-deficient observers in dynamic displays with constant and changing disparity.	The performance of 11 static stereo-deficient subjects and 11 static stereo-normal subjects was compared on two types of dynamic stereo displays--one where disparities were constant during motion and one where disparities changed continuously. Computer-generated displays simulating horizontal motion of figures at different depths or rotation of figures about a vertical axis were viewed through a Brewster stereoscope. About one-half of the subjects in our static stereo-deficient sample were able to make depth judgments on the basis of disparity in both types of dynamic displays. The clinical feature which appeared to distinguish those static stereo-deficient subjects who could use disparity information in dynamic displays from those who could not was early onset constant strabismus. These results indicate that a complete evaluation of stereo ability should include tests with dynamic displays, possibly including both constant and changing disparities.
Central and peripheral sensitivity to temporally modulated stimuli presented to the sighting and nonsighting eyes.	Thirty-two visually normal observers showed reduced sensitivity to uniform field flicker in the fovea of the nonsighting eye relative to the sighting eye. The two eyes showed equal sensitivity to flicker in the peripheral retina. This result with visually normal observers is analogous to that found in observers with functional amblyopia. It is also consistent with the hypothesis that amblyopic and normal suppressive processes share a common mechanism.
Viewing distance affects stereoscopic tilt created with spatial frequency disparity.	A controversy exists as to whether stereoscopic tilt created with interocular differences in spatial frequency is based on perception of spatial frequency disparity or positional disparity. To determine which hypothesis is correct, we investigated the influence of viewing distance on perceived tilt. Tilt was induced by having observers view, at three viewing distances, dichoptic spatial frequency grating patterns differing in frequency by 25%. By appropriate physical scaling of the size of the patterns, their spatial frequency and angular width remained unchanged as distance varied. Under such conditions, the spatial frequency disparity hypothesis predicts no effect of distance, whereas the positional disparity hypothesis predicts a significant effect of distance (due to stereoscopic depth constancy) on the magnitude of tilt. The results showed that perceived tilt does covary with distance, a result consistent with only the positional disparity hypothesis.
Influence of extraocular muscle imbalance on binocular performance.	In assessing binocular performance, it is possible that extraocular coordination is more significantly involved than presently recognized. Dynamic phorometry or phorometric testing in the nine cardinal directions of gaze is advised for evaluating the extraocular muscular system. These case reports used interrelation of phorias to evaluate binocular problems. The interpretation of these data helps determine the amount of horizontal prism necessary to reduce compensating vergences. Although a control group was not used, the elimination of associated vertical fixation disparity in these cases seemed to ameliorate binocular stress.
Analysis of motor response with respect to the time course in cyclofusion]	Torsional eye movements during cyclofusional responses are recorded objectively and analyzed with respect to the time course of the eye movement until the subject perceives a fused image. Eight subjects whose age ranged from 24 to 35 years old were studied. Torsional disparity was presented stepwise by a synoptiscope. The Number of subjects whose motor response was stepped was less than that of the subjects whose motor response was not stepped. The time course of responses varied in individual. Moreover, the number of the subjects whose motor response showed cyclovergence was less than that of subjects whose motor response showed cycloversion. Fusional cyclovergence is reasonable to bring the disparate images within Panum's area efficiently. However our analysis shows that stepped response and cyclovergence is less in number and the motor response is variable in each individual. Therefore, we do not accept the explanation that the cyclofusional motor response simply brings the disparate images within Panum's area. We speculate that cyclofusional motor response is carried out by a feed-back loop through the cyclofusional sensory input to fuse the disparate images.
Spectacle lenses alter eye growth and the refractive status of young monkeys.	The influence of visual experience on ocular development in higher primates is not well understood. To investigate the possible role of defocus in regulating ocular growth, spectacle lenses were used to optically simulate refractive anomalies in young monkeys (for example, myopia or nearsightedness). Both positive and negative lenses produced compensating ocular growth that reduced the lens-induced refractive errors and, at least for low lens powers, minimized any refractive-error differences between the two eyes. These results indicate that the developing primate visual system can detect the presence of refractive anomalies and alter each eye's growth to eliminate these refractive errors. Moreover, these results support the hypothesis that spectacle lenses can alter eye development in young children.
Acquired central fusion disruption following cataract extraction.	Central sensory and motor fusion of images, once established, is usually maintained throughout life. Under certain circumstances, this ability may be lost. This gives rise to the syndrome known as horror fusionis, or acquired disruption of central fusion. We report the development of central fusion disruption in three patients with uniocular mature senile cataract. We postulate that this is the result of prolonged sensory deprivation in the cataractous eye. The loss of fusion results in a particularly troublesome type of intractable diplopia, characterized by the inability to either fuse or suppress images. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first report of central fusion disruption following cataract surgery for senile cataract.
A transparent motion aftereffect contingent on binocular disparity.	Under transparent motion conditions overlapping surfaces are perceived simultaneously, each with its own direction. The motion aftereffect (MAE) of transparent motion, however, is undirectional and its direction is opposite to that of a sensitivity-weighted vector sum of both inducing vectors. Here we report a bidirectional and transparent MAE contingent on binocular disparity. Depth (from retinal disparity) was introduced between two patterns. A fixation dot was presented at zero disparity, that is, located between the two adaptation patterns. After adaptation to such a stimulus configuration testing was carried out with two stationary test patterns at the same depths as the preceding moving patterns. For opposite directions a clear transparent MAE was perceived. However, if the adaptation directions were orthogonal the chance of a transparent MAE being perceived decreased substantially. This was subject dependent. Some subjects perceived an orthogonal transparent MAE whereas others saw the negative vector sum-an integrated MAE. In addition the behavior of the MAE when the distance in depth between adapting and test patterns was increased was investigated: it was found that the visibility of the MAE then decreased. Visibility is defined in this paper as: (i) the percentage of the trials in which MAEs are perceived and (ii) the average MAE duration. Both measures decreased with increasing distance. The results suggest that segregation and integration may be mediated by direction-tuned channels that interact with disparity-tuned channels.
Stereoscopic slant reversals: a new kind of 'induced' effect.	Data are presented from three experiments confirming an earlier finding that the stereoscopic slant perceived may be opposite to the geometrically predicted direction of slant (Gillam 1967). The stimulus for stereoscopic slant was created by imposing a disparity gradient on a frontal plane surface. Reversals are shown to occur readily for slants around a vertical axis but rarely for slant around a horizontal axis. Reversal frequency is greater for surfaces which have a regular pattern, providing good perspective information about slant. Cue conflict cannot explain reversals because adherence to perspective information predicts a perception of zero slant rather than reverse slant. A new explanation has been proposed attributing reversals to the ambiguity of horizontal disparity gradients and disambiguation of the disparity gradient by its relationship to the perspective gradient. It is shown that for any given disparity gradient there is a physical surface which would give rise to a slant reversed with respect to that normally predicted. Such a surface is eccentric in the field of view, with eccentricity given by the difference between the slants signalled by the disparity gradient and the perspective gradient. This explains why reversal responses to disparity gradients occur in the presence of perspective. It is proposed, on the basis of this analysis and the fact that reversals occur, that, like convergence and vertical disparity, perspective is a factor contributing to the correct scaling of disparity gradients in the horizontal meridian with respect to surface eccentricity.
Asymmetrical effect of crossed and uncrossed disparity on stereoscopic capture.	When a real or subjective contour is superimposed on a repetitive texture or 'wallpaper pattern', the apparent depth of the elements of the wallpaper pattern may be influenced by the contour. When the contour has crossed disparity, the elements inside the contour are seen floating in the plane of the contour. This is called 'stereoscopic capture'. On the other hand, when the contour has uncrossed disparity a different, somewhat unstable, percept is seen. The wallpaper elements are either seen to form a transparent surface floating in front of the contour, or all of the elements inside and outside of the contour are seen to lie in the uncrossed plane of the inducing contour. We suggest that the asymmetry between crossed and uncrossed stereo capture is a by-product of the different roles played by crossed and uncrossed disparity in stereoscopic surface construction: specifically, crossed and, perhaps, zero disparity spreads one-directionally into a figure from a contour whereas uncrossed disparity spreads out from a figure in all directions. These points are illustrated with a series of demonstrations.
Stereo matching precedes dichoptic masking.	Stereo matching can intervene to prevent dichoptic masking. In a dichoptic masking paradigm we measured the contrast threshold for a bar target, presented to one eye, as a function of the contrast of an identical masking bar, presented at retinal correspondence in the other eye. Confirming previous studies of dichoptic masking with sinusoidal gratings, the test bar thresholds rose proportionally with increasing masking contrast. This threshold elevation was almost nullified when an extra bar was presented to the eye seeing the test stimulus. Release from masking occurred when the disparity between the masking bar and extra bar was < 20 min arc over a range of contrast levels (8-45%), and for bars containing either broad spatial frequency spectra or bars with only high spatial frequencies (peak = 12 c/deg). The latter result rules out an explanation for the release from masking based on contrast discrimination in low spatial frequency channels. The extra bar was effective in releasing the test bar from masking as long as the extra bar's contrast was greater than about one-fifth the contrast of the mask, a result that suggests that there is a contrast threshold for stereo matching. We interpret our findings to indicate that a stage of stereo matching occurs prior to the neural site limiting dichoptic contrast discrimination.
A polar coordinate system for describing binocular disparity.	When a meridional magnifier is introduced in front of one eye, a planar surface is perceived as slanted about a vertical axis. If the horizontal meridian is magnified, the perceived slant is away from the eye with the magnifier (geometric effect). If the vertical meridian is magnified, the slant is towards the eye with the magnifier (induced effect). While the geometric effect can be explained by the binocular horizontal disparities introduced by the horizontal magnifier, the induced effect has to be explained differently. Various models have been developed and the induced effect has generally been explained as a reinterpretation of horizontal disparity under a new reference of stereoscopic localization which is resultant from the vertical positional disparity introduced by the vertical magnifier. In this paper we describe binocular disparity in a polar coordinate system. Under this system, horizontal and vertical disparities are combined into a single stimulus variable, polar angle disparity. We show that the spatial distribution of polar angle disparity can faithfully describe the three-dimensional slant and inclination of a planar surface relative to the gaze normal plane. Both geometric and induced effects can be explained as direct responses to the polar angle disparity map distorted by the magnifier. Theoretical predictions based on the polar angle disparity are compared with experimental findings.
A new protocol for the optometric management of patients with reading difficulties.	Research by Evans et al. (Ophthal. Physiol. Opt. 15, 481-487, 1995) has demonstrated a correlation between visual processing and ocular motor factors in people with specific reading difficulties (dyslexia). In addition, research by Wilkins et al. (Ophthal. Physiol. Opt. 14, 365-370, 1994) has shown that some people with dyslexia will benefit from a reduction of perceptual symptoms of discomfort and distortion if they use individually prescribed coloured filters. Three examples of the dyslexic patients who attend at the Institute of Optometry clearly demonstrate the importance of full investigation of ocular function, including the assessment of the effect of colour on visual perception. All three patients presented with similar symptoms of asthenopia when reading. Symptoms were alleviated for the first patient by use of orthoptic treatment of an exotropia with intermittent suppression. With the second patient, ocular motor functions were found to be within acceptable limits and relief of symptoms was obtained by the prescribing of lenses of a specific chromaticity. For the third patient, both orthoptic intervention and the use of specifically tinted lenses were necessary to relieve the visual difficulties that were being experienced. By taking advantage of recent research and developments in optometric instrumentation, it is possible for some of those with dyslexia to receive considerable benefit from optometric intervention.
Dynamic asymmetries in disparity convergence eye movements.	Vergence eye movements have traditionally been considered the product of a single neural control center and are usually studied by combining the movements of each eye into a single 'vergence' response. In the present experiment, disparity-driven eye movements were produced by symmetrical step stimuli, and the dynamic properties of each eye movement were analyzed separately. Although the final positions of the two eyes were symmetrical, large dynamic asymmetries often occurred. The timing between the two eyes showed fair synchrony as they attained maximum velocity at approximately the same time. Since the final static positions were symmetrical, asymmetries occurring during the initial dynamic component must necessarily be compensated by offsetting asymmetries in the latter portion of the response.
