Barriers to accessing low vision services.	To investigate barriers to accessing low vision services in Australia.
Patients' responses to retinitis pigmentosa.	Forty-eight patients with retinitis pigmentosa completed at home a questionnaire about everyday tasks, and recorded their distance visual acuities on reduced Snellen charts. Respondents were asked to assess their own abilities for seven tasks involving visual search and mobility on a 1 to 4 scale. This revealed the relative difficulty of each task for the whole group. Other questions were open-ended to allow respondents to express their individual visual problems and experiences. Several problems came to light that were not amenable to treatment with low vision aids, but should be considered as a guide to the clinician in counseling.
Using a binocular field expander on a wide-field search task.	Five patients with constricted visual fields and good central acuity were fitted with an experimental binocular field expander. They undertook a laboratory visual search task in a stationary horizontal 90 degree field with and without the device. Four of five patients adapted relatively quickly to the inherent optical distortions of the field expander. When this binocular aid was worn search efficiency improved significantly with practice; search time was highly correlated (r = -0.92; p less than 0.01) with information channel capacity in the larger visual field.
Measuring outcomes of vision rehabilitation with the Veterans Affairs Low Vision Visual Functioning Questionnaire.	To evaluate the sensitivity to change, in patients who undergo vision rehabilitation, of the Veteran Affairs (VA) Low Vision Visual Functioning Questionnaire (LV VFQ-48), which was designed to measure the difficulty visually impaired persons have in performing daily activities and to evaluate vision rehabilitation outcomes.
Where people look when watching movies: do all viewers look at the same place?	Magnification around the most important point of a movie scene (center of interest-COI) might aid people with visual impairments that cause resolution loss. This will be effective only if most people look at the same place when watching a movie. We recorded the eye movements of 20 normally sighted subjects as each watched six movie clips, totaling 37.5 min. More than half of the time the distribution of subject gaze points fell within an area statistic that was less than 12% of the movie scene. Male and older subjects were more likely to look in the same place than female and younger subjects, respectively. We conclude that the between-subject agreement is sufficient to make the approach practical.
Public health impact of neovascular age-related macular degeneration treatments extrapolated from visual acuity.	To estimate the potential public health impact of treatment with new medications intended to preserve vision in patients with neovascular age-related macular degeneration (AMD).
Reading speed through different equivalent power low vision devices with identical field of view.	Adequate reading speed is one of the criteria low vision patients may use to assist them when they are comparing and selecting equivalent power low vision devices. Inherently, various optical devices of equivalent power will produce different fields of view. We compared the reading speed of 32 trained, normal observers with 4 commonly prescribed types of low vision devices of +12 D equivalent power (spectacles, hand magnifier, stand magnifier, and telemicroscope) which were modified to provide nearly identical fields of view. Our results show that only the reading speed obtained with the telemicroscope was significantly different from those of the other systems (p less than 0.01). Implications are that the field of view provided by a low vision device is the primary parameter limiting reading speed of equivalent power devices.
A smart video magnifier controlled by the visibility signal of a low vision user.	A smart video magnifier for the people with visual disabilities is now being developed to assist their stress-free reading. In a video magnifier, the users watch the monitor screen that is displaying the book page to be read. Eye movement is needed for reading a book. The difficulty of character recognition that is dependent on the environmental conditions is reflected to the eye movement. Accordingly, information on the visibility of the user is extracted as physiological signals accompanied by the gazing motion. These signals are basically used to control the video magnifier. The advantages and usefulness of the adaptive-type video magnifier are discussed in this paper.
Impact of general health status on validity of visual impairment measurement.	To examine the effects of bias and distortion from general health status on Rasch model-based measurements of visual function, and establish measurement equivalence across different health status groups in low vision patients.
A multilevel item response theory model was investigated for longitudinal vision-related quality-of-life data.	To investigate how a multilevel item response theory (IRT) model for longitudinal dependent data could provide average and individual quality-of-life outcomes of low-vision rehabilitation.
Nonorganic (psychogenic) visual loss in children: a retrospective series.	Few studies provide follow-up information or systematic investigation of prognostic parameters of nonorganic (psychogenic) visual loss in children.
Effects of yellow filters on visual acuity, contrast sensitivity and reading under conditions of forward light scatter.	Yellow filters are sometimes recommended to people with low vision. Our aim was investigate the effects of three commercial yellow filters on visual acuity and contrast sensitivity (with and without glare) and reading (without glare) under conditions of forward light scatter (FLS).
Training to improve reading speed in patients with juvenile macular dystrophy: a randomized study comparing two training methods.	In this study, we examined the clinical application of two training methods for optimizing reading ability in patients with juvenile macular dystrophy with established eccentric preferred retinal locus and optimal use of low-vision aids.
Visual function analysis in acute posterior vitreous detachment.	To determine whether the visual function of patients with posterior vitreous detachment (PVD)changes between the initial visit and a 6-week follow-up visit, and to compare their visual function with that of patients with macular degeneration, cataract, glaucoma, low vision, cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis, or diabetic retinopathy and a reference population.
Low vision rehabilitation plans comparing two intake methods.	This qualitative study investigates possible differences in identified rehabilitation needs indicated by the usual intake procedures at a Multidisciplinary Rehabilitation Center (MRC) for visually impaired persons compared with those indicated by the use of a structured Dutch version [based on the International Classification of the Disability, Functioning and Health (ICF)] of the Activity Inventory (D-AI).
The influence of ground contact and visible horizon on perception of distance and size under severely degraded vision.	For low vision navigation, misperceiving the locations of hazards can have serious consequences. Potential sources of such misperceptions are hazards that are not visually associated with the ground plane, thus, depriving the viewer of important perspective cues for egocentric distance. In Experiment 1, we assessed absolute distance and size judgments to targets on stands under degraded vision conditions. Normally sighted observers wore blur goggles that severely reduced acuity and contrast, and viewed targets placed on either detectable or undetectable stands. Participants in the detectable stand condition demonstrated accurate distance judgments, whereas participants in the undetectable stand condition overestimated target distances. Similarly, the perceived size of targets in the undetectable stand condition was judged to be significantly larger than in the detectable stand condition, suggesting a perceptual coupling of size and distance in conditions of degraded vision. In Experiment 2, we investigated size and implied distance perception of targets elevated above a visible horizon for individuals in an induced state of degraded vision. When participants' size judgments are inserted into the size-distance invariance hypothesis (SDIH) formula, distance to above-horizon objects increased compared to those below the horizon. Together, our results emphasize the importance of salient visible ground-contact information for accurate distance perception. The absence of this ground-contact information could be the source of perceptual errors leading to potential hazards for low vision individuals with severely degraded acuity and contrast sensitivity.
Crowding in central vision in normally sighted and visually impaired [corrected] children aged 4 to 8 years: the influence of age and test design.	To investigate crowding ratios in children with a visual impairment due to ocular disease (n = 58) and normally sighted children (n = 75) aged 4 to 8 years using several variants of two clinically available tests with different optotype spacing (fixed or proportional to the optotype size).
Identification and detection of simple 3D objects with severely blurred vision.	Detecting and recognizing three-dimensional (3D) objects is an important component of the visual accessibility of public spaces for people with impaired vision. The present study investigated the impact of environmental factors and object properties on the recognition of objects by subjects who viewed physical objects with severely reduced acuity.
Compression of perceived depth as a function of viewing conditions.	The magnification produced by a low-vision telescope has been shown to compress perceived depth. Looking through such a telescope, however, also entails monocular viewing and visual field restriction, and these viewing conditions, taken together, were also shown to compress perceived depth. The research presented here quantitatively explores the separate effects of each of these viewing conditions on perceived depth.
Elevation easier than plan for sighted and early-blind adults in a perspective-taking task.	Plans show shapes of objects from above, and represent both their left-right order and their order in the z-dimension (the distance of the objects). Elevations show only the vertical shapes of objects arranged from left to right. Plans, having more spatial information, may be more difficult for participants to construct. Results from a study with sighted, sighted-blindfolded, and early-blind participants on Piaget's perspective-taking three-mountain task support this hypothesis. The plan task was judged more difficult than the elevation task even when participants performed with the same level of accuracy on both tasks. In visual and tactile tasks, amount of spatial-order information may determine difficulty, rather than plan versus elevation per se. 
Psychophysics of reading. VI--The role of contrast in low vision.	The effect of contrast on reading performance was measured in 19 low-vision observers with a wide range of visual disorders and degrees of vision loss. The observers read text composed of 6 deg letters, ranging in contrast from 0.96 down to contrast threshold for reading. Reading performance was characterized by two parameters: peak reading rate is the reading rate at maximum contrast, and critical contrast is the contrast at which reading rate drops to half its maximum value. Peak reading rates were lower in observers with central field loss than in observers with intact central vision. In 16 of 19 cases, critical contrasts were higher for low-vision observers than for normal observers (averaging 3.9 times higher), indicating a decreased tolerance to contrast reduction. Values of critical contrast were closely linked to contrast sensitivity for letters (r = 0.87), but did not vary systematically with type of vision loss. Five observers read white-on-black text faster than black-on-white at both high and low contrasts. Four of the five had cloudy ocular media. We attribute this contrast polarity effect to abnormal light scatter in eyes with cloudy media. We examined the hypothesis that our low-vision observers' deviation from normal performance could be characterized (1) by a contrast scaling factor representing an attenuation of effective contrast and (2) that this scale factor could be identified with reduced contrast sensitivity. Such a description provided a good account for subjects with cloudy ocular media, where contrast attenuation results from intraocular light scatter. It provided a first order, but incomplete account for subjects with field loss where contrast attenuation is related to contrast sensitivity losses due to neural factors.
Waterloo Vision and Mobility Study: gait adaptations to altered surfaces in individuals with age-related maculopathy.	Walking is an extremely complex task that can become seriously challenged if one of the sensory systems which provides input to the motor system is compromised. The present study evaluated gait adaptations to altered surface characteristics and high and low ambient light conditions by subjects with age-related maculopathy (ARM). Twenty subjects with ARM and 20 control subjects walked along a 6 m path, along which they met 1 of 3 altered surfaces (compliant, uneven, or shiny). Kinematic data and ground reaction forces information were analyzed to discern gait adaptation strategies used by the ARM group. Ten trials on each surface were collected under both high and low ambient light levels. The ARM subjects were found to be generally more cautious when walking on the altered surfaces. For example, they walked more slowly, with a longer swing time. However, gait adaptations in the ARM group were not merely scaled versions of normal gait but were adjustments to adapt to environmental changes. Gait was modified to avoid tripping over a surface edge, to prevent slipping at heel contact, and to balance during stance. These adaptations enabled subjects to maintain safe mobility when walking in a challenging environment.
