Clinical performance of electronic, head-mounted, low-vision devices.	This study compared four electronic head-mounted devices (HMDs) (Jordy, Flipperport, Maxport and NuVision) with conventional optical low-vision aids (LVAs). The aim was to determine any performance differences for laboratory-based clinical measurements and practical visual tasks for patients with macular disease. Possible factors influencing success were explored. Ten patients with early onset macular disease (EOMD) and 10 with age-related macular disease (AMD) used the four HMDs, habitual spectacles and previously prescribed optical LVAs to complete a range of clinical measurements and everyday visual tasks. The clinical measurements were distance, intermediate and near acuities, and contrast sensitivity. The visual tasks were to read text of three sizes, to write a cheque and to identify grocery items on a shelf. Following the initial evaluation, each subject took home two randomly selected HMD devices for 2 weeks, after which performance measures were repeated. No single HMD stood out as being superior overall. Flipperport and Jordy provided significantly better distance and intermediate acuity than the previously prescribed optical LVAs but near acuity and contrast sensitivity were not consistently better with any of the HMDs. Practice at home provided some improvement in performance with HMDs, nevertheless, optical aids remained the best devices for optimum functioning for the majority of tasks. Younger patients and those with better distance acuity were more likely to benefit from HMDs, particularly when reading small print. In low vision clinics, practitioners should continue to show patients conventional optical aids and demonstrate these electronic HMDs only when appropriate for the individual patient.
Developing an integrated paediatric low vision service.	A survey of usage of low vision aids (LVAs) by 56 children with visual impairment, who were attending mainstream schools in Wirral, was undertaken. A total of 25% of children owned an LVA and 5% were using these on a regular basis. These low levels of ownership and usage led to the development of a low vision service involving the collaboration of education and health care. This paper describes the development of that service, its elements and implementation. The results from the new service show that of the 29 children issued with an LVA, 82.7% are using them on a regular basis. Having an integrated service is shown to significantly improve LVA usage in the group of children seen so far. The service results are discussed with suggestions for future service development.
Low vision services in South Devon: a multi-agency, multi-disciplinary approach.	Since 1994, the Low Vision Service in South Devon has been provided by a multi-agency, multi-disciplinary team. The team comprises of staff from Devon Social Services Sensory Team, Optima Low Vision Services Ltd, Royal National Institute for the Blind (RNIB) Manor House, Devon and Torbay Special Education Services and South Devon Healthcare Trust. In the 9 years of operation this service has been independently audited twice for patient satisfaction levels and compliance level in the use of low vision aids (LVAs). The results of the most recent service audit questionnaire reveal a high and constant patient satisfaction level with 92% of patients who answered the question reporting that the service was sufficient to meet their needs. The number of patients who used LVAs at least weekly was 88% of those answering the question. Plans for the future expansion of the service include the further development of interdisciplinary working.
Low vision service delivery: an audit of newly developed outreach clinics in Northern Ireland.	Recent publications recommend that low vision services are multi-professional; easily accessible; freely available to all those with visual impairment; monitored by professional and patient groups, and responsive to user feedback. These standards were applied when developing low vision outreach services in Northern Ireland in 1999/2000. Results are reported of the complete clinical audit cycle, coupled with a patient satisfaction telephone questionnaire, which was used to evaluate the service. Of the 48 patients randomly selected from the list of clinic attendees, 28 (58%) were female, 27 (56%) over 80 years of age and 38 (78%) had a primary ocular diagnosis of age related macular degeneration (AMD). Of the 46 low vision aids issued at patients' first appointments, 30 (67%) were illuminated stand magnifiers and 29 (63%) had magnification levels of x5 or less. A total of 46 (96%) patients reported that they had benefited from low vision services.
Primary success with low vision aids in age-related macular degeneration.	The benefit obtained from various low vision aids (LVAs) was studied in 65 consecutive patients with atrophic (70.3%) or disciform (29.7%) age-related macular degeneration (ARMD). 13.8% were able to read newsprint with age-related reading correction under proper lighting conditions. The primary success achieved with LVAs was good, 91.4% of patients being able to read newsprint. In most cases a simple magnifier (52.3%), high-powered reading glasses (10.8%) or Fonda's glasses (12.8%) were sufficient. The magnification preferred was 5x or less in 25.6% and greater than 5x to 9x in 48.8%. Patients with disciform degeneration required higher magnification than those with atrophic degeneration. It is concluded that most patients with ARMD found low vision aids useful for reading purposes and that a simple optical device was sufficient to achieve reading vision.
Adjustable focus telescopes for near vision.	It is important for clinicians to know the equivalent viewing power and corresponding equivalent viewing distance of the adjustable-focus telescopes they prescribe for low vision patients. Formulas are presented here to calculate the equivalent viewing power and distance of these telescopes. The optical effects of adjusting a telescope for near vision are discussed and compared to using a lens cap fitted on the objective to permit focusing on a near target. Commonly prescribed adjustable-focus telescopes of four representative magnifications were evaluated. The results are presented in the form of a nomogram which can be used for determining the equivalent viewing distance of these telescopes based on the front vertex focal distance of the focused device. Other considerations including sources of error and field of view are also addressed.
The programmable remapper: clinical applications for patients with field defects.	NASA, Johnson Space Center is developing an electronic image remapper which will warp an image from one coordinate system onto another with great flexibility and speed. The Programmable Remapper will transform images at conventional video frame rate. The Remapper was designed to be used in conjunction with an optical correlator to enhance object recognition through "real time" Fourier analysis. We are investigating an additional potential application for the Remapper as a low-vision aid. In diseases which result in obvious field defects such as age-related maculopathy (ARM) or retinitis pigmentosa (RP), the Remapper can be used to redistribute onto the still-functioning retina the image information that would otherwise be lost due to the associated field defect. Compared with eccentric viewing, this process makes use of the acuity of a larger area of the retina. We envision the future aid to consist of a portable spectacle-mounted display with miniaturized camera input and the Remapper. The patient will view the remapped world on this display. Patients may require training with feedback as to eye and scotoma position in order to use the Remapper most effectively. The Remapper might be reduced in cost, weight, and size to the point of being a feasible low-vision prosthesis as a result of development required by military, space, and industrial utilization. In order to demonstrate how such an aid may work, we have generated static images on an image processor which have undergone radial-only remapping; i.e., image points are slid along radii, with their azimuths unchanged. The remapping process and the application to low vision along with static images are presented in this paper.
The design of a zoom stand magnifier--a new low vision device.	A new stand magnifier has been designed for low vision patients and developed into a working instrument. This zoom magnifier has two ergonomic advantages over the currently available single lens magnifiers: it stays in focus (zooms) as the power is changed and it has a longer working space to allow both reading and writing with the same magnifier. This two-lens zoom magnifier contains a stationary plus lens and a movable minus lens. Using a symmetry condition, first order equations are presented and solved for the two lens powers. A family of three zoom magnifiers was designed--low, medium, and high power--each with a conveniently positioned sharp image with a 2-fold range of power and magnification. The equivalent viewing powers of the units (for a +2.50 D add) range from 6 to 23 D. The working spaces are approximately double that of comparable power single lens stand magnifiers.
Low vision magnifiers--their optical parameters and methods for prescribing.	Information provided by manufacturers of low vision magnifiers is usually insufficient to allow the clinician to predict accurately the resolution improvement that patients may be expected to achieve. We have measured and tabulated the key optical parameters of 92 stand magnifiers and 53 hand-held magnifiers. For the fixed focus stand magnifiers, the image location and the equivalent power of the lens system have been determined and the enlargement ratio has been derived. For each magnifier, 3 different eye-to-lens distances (2.5, 10, and 25 cm) have been considered and, for each of these, the Equivalent Viewing Distance (EVD), the eye-to-image distance, and the theoretically predicted field width have been computed. The EVD is useful in predicting resolution performance because, for a given patient, the visual resolution limit will be directly proportional to the EVD. The eye-to-image distances allow the clinician to consider whether the patient will be in satisfactory focus or whether adjustments need to be made to the power of any reading addition. The stand magnifiers are listed in order of the EVD they give when the eye is a moderate (10 cm) distance from the magnifier. For the hand-held magnifiers, the equivalent powers have been measured. The EVD for a hand-held magnifier will be the same as the equivalent focal length of the magnifier if the lens is used so that the image is at or close to infinity. The tables include supplementary information on the size of the magnifier lenses and whether the magnifiers incorporate battery, electric, incandescent, or halogen lighting systems. Examples are presented to illustrate how the tables might be used in the selection of magnifiers to meet the resolution and other needs of individual patients.
