Replication and cytopathic effects of ovine lentivirus strains in alveolar macrophages correlate with in vivo pathogenicity.	Ruminant lentiviruses share genomic sequences and biologic properties with human immunodeficiency viruses. Four ovine lentivirus strains were assessed for cytopathic effects and virus replication. Lentivirus isolate H/24 produced high virus titers and lysis of synovial cells but replicated slowly and caused no fusion of alveolar macrophages. Lentivirus isolates 84/28 and 85/14 produced low virus titers, less syncytia, and limited or no cell lysis in synovial cells and macrophages. In contrast, ovine lentivirus isolate 85/34 produced early peak virus titers and caused rapid fusion and lysis of both macrophages and synovial cells. Ovine lentivirus isolates which were cytopathic for macrophages induced lymphoproliferative disease when inoculated into lambs.
Experimental infection of sheep by caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus and goats by progressive pneumonia virus.	The lentiviruses, caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus (CAEV) and progressive pneumonia virus (PPV) of sheep, cause major diseases in their respective hosts; however, the infectivity of these viruses for closely related species has not been determined. Experiments were conducted to determine whether CAEV would infect sheep and whether PPV would infect goats. Upon inoculation with CAEV, lambs developed a nonsuppurative arthritis and antibody to CAEV, and the virus was isolated up to 4 months later. Exposure of 3 lambs to CAEV-infected adult goats did not lead to demonstrable infection after 18 months. Young goats inoculated with PPV replicated the virus and developed arthritis and antiviral antibody. These results demonstrate that these distinctly different lentiviruses may infect and cause diseases in species other than their accustomed host. Presently used techniques may not be effective in differentiating which lentivirus is responsible for infection of sheep and goats. Our results also indicate that mixing sheep and goats may adversely influence attempts to eradicate lentiviruses from these species.
