Restricted posterior parietal lesions in the rhesus monkey and performance on visuospatial tasks.	Monkeys with lesions restricted to the inferior parietal lobule or the banks and depths of the superior temporal sulcus were tested on a route-following task. These areas are considered on neuroanatomical grounds to be homologous to parts of the human posterior parietal cortex, where lesions produce profound spatial disorientation. The operated monkeys were impaired on the route task, thus confirming at the behavioural level the anatomical predictions of comparability between parietal cortex in monkey and that in man. The monkeys were not impaired, however, on a visual pattern discrimination or on a visual-spatial task with cue and response separation, a task that was considered on the basis of previous investigations with extensive posterior lesions in the monkey to be sensitive to parietal lesions.
High spatial resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging at very-high-magnetic field.	Although neuroimaging methods have been used successfully to map large-scale neurocognitive networks distributed across the human cortex, functional mapping and differentiation of localized brain organization within a small structure has been limited by inadequate sensitivity for high spatial resolution imaging. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) technique based on blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) contrast has become one of the most useful neuroimaging techniques. It has been used extensively to study human brain function from sensory perception to cognitive performance. However, the majority of these studies used a relatively low spatial resolution (typically with a voxel size of 3.1 x 3.1 x 5.0 mm3), which is incapable of mapping on the millimeter and submillimeter spatial scale. In this article, we review the technical aspects of the high-resolution fMRI technique and the sensitivity and spatial specificity of BOLD-based fMRI. We demonstrate applications of high-resolution fMRI in studying the human visual pathway from the lateral geniculate nucleus in the thalamus to the ocular dominance columns in the primary visual cortex. Most results were obtained at very-high-magnetic fields (3.0 and 4.0 Tesla). They reveal that high-resolution fMRI at very-high-magnetic field is promising for functional mapping of brain organization from large cortical networks, small nuclei, and even to cellular layer structures.
Receptive field properties of single neurons in rat primary visual cortex.	The rat is used widely to study various aspects of vision including developmental events and numerous pathologies, but surprisingly little is known about the functional properties of single neurons in the rat primary visual cortex (V1). These were investigated in the anesthetized (Hypnorm-Hypnovel), paralyzed animal by presenting gratings of different orientations, spatial and temporal frequencies, dimensions, and contrasts. Stimulus presentation and data collection were automated. Most neurons (190/205) showed sharply tuned (</=30 degrees bandwidth at half height) orientation selectivity with a bias for horizontal stimuli (31%). Analysis of response modulation of oriented cells showed a bimodal distribution consistent with the distinction between simple and complex cell types. Orientation specific interactions occurred between the center and the periphery of receptive fields, usually resulting in strong inhibition to center stimulation when both stimuli had the same orientation. There was no evidence for orientation columns nor for orderly change in optimal orientation with tangential tracks through V1. Responses were elicited by spatial frequencies ranging from zero (no grating) to 1.2 cycle/degree (c/ degrees ), peaking at 0.1 c/ degrees, and with a modal cutoff of 0.6 c/ degrees. Half of the neurons responded optimally to drifting gratings rather than flashing uniform field stimuli. Directional preference was seen for 59% of oriented units at all depths in the cortex. Optimal stimuli velocities varied from 10 to 250 degrees /s. Some units, mainly confined to layer 4, responded to velocities as high as 700 degrees /s. Response versus contrast curves (best fit with Naka-Rushton) varied from nearly linear to extremely steep (mean contrast semisaturation 50% and threshold 6%). There was a trend for cells from superficial layers to be more selective to different stimulus parameters than deeper layers cells. We conclude that neurons in rat V1 have complex and diverse visual properties, necessary for precise visual form perception with low spatial resolution.
David H. Hubel, Torsten N. Wiesel, Nigel W. Daw: the creators of modern visual neurophysiology]	Curriculum vitae as well as scientifical out-put of the Nobel Price winners--David Hunter Hubel and Torsten Nils Wiesel, and the Friedenwald Memorial Award laureate--Nigel Warwick Daw are described. D.H. Hubel was born in 1926 in Windsor, Canada. In 1951 he received a medical degree from McGill University. From 1955-1958 he worked at Walter Reed Army Institute of Research, from 1958-1959 at Johns Hopkins University, and since 1959 at Harvard University. T.N. Wiesel was born in 1924 in Uppsala, Sweden. In 1954 he received a medical degree from Karolinska Institute. From 1955-1959 he worked at Johns Hopkins University, from 1959-1982 at Harvard University, and since 1983 at the Rockefeller University, New York. N.W. Daw was born in 1933 in London, England. In 1961 he received a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Trinity College. In 1967 he became a doctor of philosophy in biophysics at Johns Hopkins University. From 1967-1969 he worked at Harvard University, from 1969-1992 at Washington University, and since 1992 at Yale University.
Perception and neuronal coding of subjective contours in the owl.	Robust form perception and underlying neuronal mechanisms require generalized representation of object boundaries, independent of how they are defined. One visual ability essential for form perception is reconstruction of contours absent from the retinal image. Here we show that barn owls perceive subjective contours defined by grating gaps and phase-shifted abutting gratings. Moreover, single-neuron recordings from visual forebrain (visual Wulst) of awake, behaving birds revealed a high proportion of neurons signaling such subjective contours, independent of local stimulus attributes. These data suggest that the visual Wulst is important in contour-based form perception and exhibits a functional complexity analogous to mammalian extrastriate cortex.
The physiological basis of attentional modulation in extrastriate visual areas.	Selective attention to color or motion enhances activity in specialized areas of extrastriate cortex, but mechanisms of attentional modulation remain unclear. By dissociating modulation of visually evoked transient activity from the baseline for a particular attentional set, human functional neuroimaging was used to investigate the physiological basis of such effects. Baseline activity in motion- and color-sensitive areas of extrastriate cortex was enhanced by selective attention to these attributes, even without moving or colored stimuli. Further, visually evoked responses increased along with baseline activity. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that attention modulates sensitivity of neuronal populations to inputs by changing background activity.
Subcellular localization of full-length and truncated Trk receptor isoforms in polarized neurons and epithelial cells.	Neurotrophins affect neuronal development and plasticity via spatially localized effects, yet little is known about the subcellular distribution of the Trk neurotrophin receptors and the impact of this distribution on neurotrophin action. To address this, we examined the subcellular location of full-length TrkB and TrkC tyrosine kinase receptors and truncated TrkB isoforms after transfection of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cells, dissociated primary hippocampal neurons, and cortical neurons within intact brain slices. Myc-, herpes virus glycoprotein (HVG)-, or FLAG-derived epitope-tagged receptor isoforms were created to allow their unambiguous identification and localization after transfection. All tagged receptors were appropriately synthesized, and full-length myc-TrkB and myc-TrkC mediated appropriate neurotrophin-signaling events. We found that full-length TrkB receptors were excluded from the apical domain of MDCK cells but that TrkC receptors were present in both apical and basolateral domains. Full-length TrkB and TrkC were found throughout transfected primary cultured hippocampal neurons and transfected neurons in neocortical brain slices and showed no evidence of vectorial sorting. Truncated forms of TrkB were also homogeneously distributed in MDCK cells, dissociated hippocampal neurons, and cortical neurons within slice preparations. Levels of full-length and truncated TrkB were examined in postsynaptic densities; both receptor isoforms were present but only moderately enriched in these structures. Together, these findings suggest that Trk receptors are uniformly distributed in both axonal and dendritic compartments and that local neurotrophin responses are controlled by other mechanisms.
Neural correlates of perceived brightness in the retina, lateral geniculate nucleus, and striate cortex.	Brightness changes can be induced in a static gray field by modulating the luminance of surrounding areas. We used this induction phenomenon to investigate the neural representation of perceived brightness. Extracellular recordings were made in striate cortex, the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), and the optic tract of anesthetized cats using stimuli that produced brightness induction. While a cell's receptive field (RF) was covered by uniform gray illumination, the luminance of rectangular flanking regions was modulated sinusoidally in time, inducing brightness changes in the RF. We looked for a correspondence between the modulation of a cell's response and stimulus conditions that did or did not produce perceptual changes in brightness. We found that the responses of retinal ganglion cell axons in the optic tract were never correlated with brightness. On the other hand, many neurons in striate cortex and a small fraction in the LGN responded in a phase-locked manner at the temporal frequency of the flank modulation, even though the flanks were 3-7 degrees beyond the edges of the RF. Only in striate cortex were cells found that had responses correlated with brightness under all stimulus conditions. These findings suggest that brightness information is explicitly represented in the responses of neurons in striate cortex as part of a neural representation of object surfaces.
Cross-modal reorganization of callosal connectivity without altering thalamocortical projections.	Mammalian cerebral cortex is composed of a multitude of different areas that are each specialized for a unique purpose. It is unclear whether the activity pattern and modality of sensory inputs to cortex play an important role in the development of cortical regionalization. The modality of sensory inputs to cerebral cortex can be altered experimentally. Neonatal diversion of retinal axons to the auditory thalamus (cross-modal rewiring) results in a primary auditory cortex (AI) that resembles the primary visual cortex in its visual response properties and topography. Functional reorganization could occur because the visual inputs use existing circuitry in AI, or because the early visual inputs promote changes in AI's circuitry that make it capable of constructing visual receptive field properties. The present study begins to distinguish between these possibilities by exploring whether the callosal connectivity of AI is altered by early visual experience. Here we show that early visual inputs to auditory thalamus can reorganize callosal connections in auditory cortex, causing both a reduction in their extent and a reorganization of the pattern. This result is distinctly different from that in deafened animals, which have widespread callosal connections, as in early postnatal development. Thus, profound changes in cortical circuitry can result simply from a change in the modality of afferent input. Similar changes may underlie cortical compensatory processes in deaf and blind humans.
Loss of attentional stimulus selection after extrastriate cortical lesions in macaques.	Many objects in natural visual scenes compete for attention. To identify the neural mechanisms necessary for visual attention, we made restricted lesions, affecting different quadrants of the visual field but leaving one quadrant intact, in extrastriate cortical areas V4 and TEO of two monkeys. Monkeys were trained to discriminate the orientation of a target grating surrounded by distracters. As distracter contrast increased, performance deteriorated in quadrants affected by V4 and TEO lesions, but not in the normal quadrant. Performance in affected quadrants was restored by increasing the contrast of the target relative to distracters. Thus, without V4 and TEO, visual attention is 'captured' by strong stimuli, regardless of their behavioral relevance.
Manifestation of scotomas created by transcranial magnetic stimulation of human visual cortex.	Reduced visual performance under transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of human visual cortex demonstrates suppression whose spatial extent is not directly visible. We created an artificial scotoma (region missing from a visual pattern) to directly visualize the location, size and shape of the TMS-induced suppression by following a large-field, patterned, visual stimulus with a magnetic pulse. The scotoma shifted with coil position according to known topography of visual cortex. Visual suppression resulted in pattern-dependent distortion, and the scotoma was filled in with temporally adjacent stimuli, suggesting spatial and temporal completion mechanisms. Thus, perceptual measurements of TMS-induced suppression may provide information about cortical processing via neuronal connections and temporal interactions of neural signals.
Magnetoencephalographic mapping of the language-specific cortex.	In this paper the authors introduce a novel use of magnetoencephalography (MEG) for noninvasive mapping of language-specific cortex in individual patients and in healthy volunteers.
Visual attention: spotlight on the primary visual cortex.	Visual search tasks appear to involve spatially selective attention to the target, but evidence for attentional modulation in the visual area with the most precise retinotopic organization V1 has been elusive. Recent imaging studies show that spatial attention can indeed enhance visual responses in human V1.
Primary visual cortex and memory. Retinal position specificity and lack of size constancy at early stages of learning a visual memory task in the macaque.	Two monkeys were trained in a novel version of a delayed match-to-sample (DMS) task. They were required to fixate on a small spot at the center of the monitor and distinguish whether two gratings presented one after the other with delays up to 1.5 s in a specific visual field location were similar or not. It was found that such learning fails to transfer readily to other retinal locations. In fact, the learning was sensitive even to very small retinal displacements of the visual stimuli. Such acute retinal position specificity implies that at least a component of the learning in this particular memory task occurs at an early visual area such as the striate cortex, which has a fine-grain topographical representation. Furthermore, at early stages of learning the DMS task, when the monkeys had not generalized the learning to stimuli of different sizes, they failed to show size constancy. That is, when the display was placed at a different distance but with the same absolute size, the performance dropped. The performance was almost fully restored when, at the new display location, stimuli were changed to fit the original retinal size. This indicates that a crucial component of the learning does occur at a site even prior to size constancy. These results show that, under certain situations, an early visual area such as the primary visual cortex may be involved even in complex behaviours such as a memory task as more than just a feature-detecting area or a relay station.
A hybrid learning network for shift-invariant recognition.	A neural network and the associated learning algorithm are presented as a generic approach for invariant recognition of visual patterns independent of their geometric attributes, such as spatial location, orientation and scale. The network is a multi-layer hierarchy with each layer composed of a set of groups of nodes. The groups of the input layer represent local areas spatially arranged in the visual field according to the geometric variations. Each node in the subsequent higher layers receives input laterally from other groups of the same layer as well as vertically from the layer below. The learning that takes place in the vertical feed forward paths between layers is based on an unsupervised hybrid algorithm combining both competitive learning and Hebbian learning. As the result of the architecture and the hybrid learning, the desired invariant recognition emerges at the output layer of the network. The network can serve as a simple and biologically plausible computational model to account for the invariant object recognition in the biological visual system. Also, as the algorithm is generic and robust, it can be applied to solve various practical recognition problems.
A neurodynamical model for selective visual attention using oscillators.	We present a neurodynamical model to study and simulate visual search tasks experiments. The model consists of different pools of interconnected phase oscillators. Each oscillator is described by an integrate-and-fire type equation. Visual attention appears as an emergent property of the dynamic of the system, resulting from the temporal synchronization of the pools which bind the features of the searched target. The time courses observed in the psychophysical visual search experiments can be explained within a purely parallel dynamic and without assuming priority maps and serial spotlight mechanisms, as is usually done in the standard theories. The model fits also the measured activity reported for the neural responses in inferotemporal visual cortex of monkeys performing visual search tasks.
The influence of current direction on phosphene thresholds evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation.	To quantify phosphene thresholds evoked by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in the occipital cortex as a function of induced current direction.
Stimulus timing-dependent plasticity in cortical processing of orientation.	The relative timing of presynaptic and postsynaptic spikes plays a critical role in activity-induced synaptic modification. Here we examined whether plasticity of orientation selectivity in the visual cortex depends on stimulus timing. Repetitive pairing of visual stimuli at two orientations induced a shift in orientation tuning of cat cortical neurons, with the direction of the shift depending on the temporal order of the pair. Induction of a significant shift required that the interval between the pair fall within +/-40 ms, reminiscent of the temporal window for spike timing-dependent synaptic plasticity. Mirroring the plasticity found in cat visual cortex, similar conditioning also induced a shift in perceived orientation by human subjects, further suggesting functional relevance of this phenomenon. Thus, relative timing of visual stimuli can play a critical role in dynamic modulation of adult cortical function, perhaps through spike timing-dependent synaptic plasticity.
Pairing-induced changes of orientation maps in cat visual cortex.	We have studied the precise temporal requirements for plasticity of orientation preference maps in kitten visual cortex. Pairing a brief visual stimulus with electrical stimulation in the cortex, we found that the relative timing determines the direction of plasticity: a shift in orientation preference toward the paired orientation occurs if the cortex is activated first visually and then electrically; the cortical response to the paired orientation is diminished if the sequence of visual and electrical activation is reversed. We furthermore show that pinwheel centers are less affected by the pairing than the pinwheel surround. Thus, plasticity is not uniformly distributed across the cortex, and, most importantly, the same spike time-dependent learning rules that have been found in single-cell in vitro studies are also valid on the level of cortical maps.
Human ocular dominance columns as revealed by high-field functional magnetic resonance imaging.	We mapped ocular dominance columns (ODCs) in normal human subjects using high-field (4 T) functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with a segmented echo planar imaging technique and an in-plane resolution of 0.47 x 0.47 mm(2). The differential responses to left or right eye stimulation could be reliably resolved in anatomically well-defined sections of V1. The orientation and width ( approximately 1 mm) of mapped ODC stripes conformed to those previously revealed in postmortem brains stained with cytochrome oxidase. In addition, we showed that mapped ODC patterns could be largely reproduced in different experiments conducted within the same experimental session or over different sessions. Our results demonstrate that high-field fMRI can be used for studying the functions of human brains at columnar spatial resolution.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation differentially affects speed and direction judgments.	This study was conducted to determine whether humans' judgments about the speed and direction of moving stimuli was differentially affected by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). Subjects viewed two successively presented moving stimuli that differed from each other both in speed and direction of motion. Single-pulse TMS was applied either medially (approximately 2 cm above the inion) or laterally (approximately 5 cm lateral to and 4 cm above the inion), while subjects judged the speed and direction differences. The physical stimulation (visual and TMS) was identical on the two tasks, as was discriminability (d') when TMS was not applied. We found significant criterion (beta) shifts on the speed discrimination task at both stimulation sites. Specifically, on TMS trials the proportion of "slower" judgments increased significantly, consistent with subjective reports that stimuli often appeared to slow when TMS was applied. The subjective reports indicated no corresponding change in perceived direction. We also found that speed discriminability was impaired significantly more than direction discriminability, but only when TMS was applied medially. Indeed, after controlling for TMS-related changes in reaction time, speed discriminability was impaired significantly, while direction discriminability remained largely intact. This dissociation suggests that the sensory response constraining speed discrimination is at least partially independent from the sensory response constraining direction discrimination. Combined with previous psychophysical data, the present data suggest a double dissociation between speed and direction discrimination in humans.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation. Which part of the current waveform causes the stimulation?	To investigate the mechanism of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), we compared the directional effects of two stimulators (Magstim 200 and Magstim Super Rapid). First, stimulating visual cortex and facial nerve with occipital mid-line TMS, we found that, for a particular coil orientation, these two stimulators affected a particular neural structure in opposite hemispheres and that, to affect a particular neural structure in a particular hemisphere, these two stimulators required opposite coil orientations. Second, stimulating a membrane-simulating circuit, we found that, for a particular coil orientation, these two stimulators resulted in a peak induced current of the same polarity but in a peak induced charge accumulation of opposite polarity. We suggest that the critical parameter in TMS is the amplitude of the induced charge accumulation rather than the amplitude of the induced current. Accordingly, TMS would be elicited just before the end of the first (Magstim 200) and second (Magstim Super Rapid) phase of the induced current rather than just after the start of the first phase of the induced current.
Attentional set modulates visual areas: an event-related potential study of attentional capture.	The present experiment offers event-related potential evidence suggesting that modulation of neural activity in the visual cortex underlies top-down attentional capture by irrelevant cues. Participants performed a covert visual search task where they identified the unique stimulus in a brief, four-location display. Targets defined uniquely by color or onset were run in separate blocks, encouraging observers to adopt different attentional sets in each block. In Experiment 1, a brief, white, abrupt-onset cue highlighted one of the locations 100 or 200 ms prior to the target display. In Experiment 2, the cue display consisted of three white and one red cues simultaneously presented at the four locations. In both experiments, participants were informed that there was no predictive relation between the location of the cue and that of the target. Reaction times were dependent on the location of the preceding cue (i.e. attention was captured), but only in those blocks where the cue shared the uniquely relevant target feature. Evoked potentials over the right hemisphere were modulated during the attention-capturing blocks just prior to the cue's appearance. Additionally, the N1 wave elicited by the cue was enhanced over occipital regions during the attention-capturing blocks. These findings support the notion that attentional capture with peripheral cues is not simply reflexive but is modulated by top-down processes.
Human large-scale oscillatory brain activity during an operant shaping procedure.	The present study aimed at examining the oscillatory brain-electric correlates of human operant learning using high-density electroencephalography (EEG). Induced gamma-band activity (GBA) was studied using a fixed-interval reinforcement schedule with a variable limited hold period, which was decreased depending on response accuracy. Thus, participants' behavior was shaped during the course of the learning session. After each response, numbers indicating the money value of that response served as reinforcing stimuli. Random reinforcement and self-paced button pressing without reinforcement were added as control conditions. GBA around 40 Hz was enhanced at posterior electrodes in response to visual feedback stimuli during shaping and random reward compared to the self-paced pressing condition where no visual feedback was provided. Furthermore, shaping was associated with a pronounced left frontal lower gamma (20-30 Hz) increase in response to feedback stimuli, whereas this pattern was not observed in the random reinforcement and self-paced pressing conditions. The present findings are in line with the notion that macroscopic high-frequency dynamics of neuronal cell assemblies may be regarded as a mechanism involved in learning and memory formation.
EEG coherence studies in the normal brain and after early-onset cortical pathologies.	Visual corpus callosum (CC) preferentially interconnects neurons selective for similar stimulus orientation near the representations of the vertical meridian. These properties allow studying the CC functionality with EEG coherence analysis. Iso-oriented and orthogonally-oriented gratings were presented to the two hemifields, either close to the vertical meridian or far from it. In animals with intact CC, and in man, interhemispheric coherence (ICoh) increased only with iso-oriented gratings presented near or crossing the vertical meridian. The increase was localized to occipital electrodes and was specific for the beta-gamma frequency band. Visual-stimulus induced changes in ICoh were studied in patients with early pathologies of the visual areas. From a girl with abnormal vision and severe bilateral lesion of the primary visual areas at 3 weeks, after premature birth at 30 weeks, we obtained no ICoh response until 9 years. In control children visual stimulation increased occipital ICoh at 6-7 years. From a young man having suffered similar lesions when he was 9 months older than the girl, no consistent increase in ICoh could be obtained. In a 14-year-old girl with congenital visual agnosia, no visible lesions, but with a temporal-occipital epileptic focus, ICoh responses were evoked both by iso-oriented, and by orthogonally-oriented gratings. In a young man with bilateral parieto-occipital microgyria extending into the calcarine sulcus, visual stimuli increased ICoh as in normal individuals, but the response was weaker. These cases are discussed in terms of development of CC connections and point to a variety of plastic changes in the cortical connectivity of children.
Injury- and use-related plasticity in adult auditory cortex.	After restricted cochlear lesions in adult animals the frequency selectivity of neurons in the cortical region deprived of its normal input by the lesion is changed such that the region is occupied by expanded representations of adjacent (perilesion) frequencies. These changes reflect a dynamic process of reorganization (plasticity) and are not explicable as passive consequences of the lesion. Analogous plasticity of cortical frequency selectivity and organization is seen following behavioural training that enhances the significance of particular acoustic stimuli. The occurrence of injury- and use-related auditory cortical plasticity gives rise to a number of questions relating to the mechanisms involved, the perceptual consequences and functional significance of such plastic changes, and their implications for the central processing of input from prosthetic devices. Evidence relating to these issues is briefly summarized in this review, and the directions of future research are considered.
Functional organization of macaque V3 for stereoscopic depth.	Recordings were made from single and small groups of cells in prestriate area V3 of the visual cortex of the Cynomolgus macaque (Macaca fascicularis). The majority of cells in V3 were selective for orientation and stereoscopic depth, these cells being segregated into two sets of functionally distinct columns. Orientation columns in V3 have been previously demonstrated; here we show that V3 also contains columns of segregated disparity-selective cells. On the basis of its cellular properties, functional organization, and intra-cortical connections, we propose that V3 contributes to the processing of stereoscopic depth information and that the parietal areas to which it projects use this information for the analysis of object depth and three-dimensional form.
Neural representation of the luminance and brightness of a uniform surface in the macaque primary visual cortex.	The perceived brightness of a surface is determined not only by the luminance of the surface (local information), but also by the luminance of its surround (global information). To better understand the neural representation of surface brightness, we investigated the effects of local and global luminance on the activity of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) of awake macaque monkeys. Single- and multiple-unit recordings were made from V1 while the monkeys were performing a visual fixation task. The classical receptive field of each neuron was identified as a region responding to a spot stimulus. Neural responses were assessed using homogeneous surfaces at least three times as large as the receptive field as stimuli. We first examined the sensitivity of neurons to variation in local surface luminance, while the luminance of the surround was held constant. The activity of a large majority of surface-responsive neurons (106/115) varied monotonically with changes in surface luminance; in some the dynamic range was over 3 log units. This monotonic relation between surface luminance and neural activity was more evident later in the stimulus period than early on. The effect of the global luminance on neural activity was then assessed in 81 of the surface-responsive neurons by varying the luminance of the surround while holding the luminance of the surface constant. The activity of one group of neurons (25/81) was unaffected by the luminance of the surround; these neurons appear to encode the physical luminance of a surface covering the receptive field. The responses of the other neurons were affected by the luminance of the surround. The effects of the luminances of the surface and the surround on the activities of 26 of these neurons were in the same direction (either increased or decreased), while the effects on the remaining 25 neurons were in opposite directions. The activities of the latter group of neurons seemed to parallel the perceived brightness of the surface, whereas the former seemed to encode the level of illumination. There were differences across different types of neurons with regard to the layer distribution. These findings indicate that global luminance information significantly modulates the activity of surface-responsive V1 neurons and that not only physical luminance, but also perceived brightness, of a homogeneous surface is represented in V1.
Mapping of contralateral space in retinotopic coordinates by a parietal cortical area in humans.	The internal organization of a higher level visual area in the human parietal cortex was mapped. Functional magnetic resonance images were acquired while the polar angle of a peripheral target for a delayed saccade was gradually changed. A region in the superior parietal cortex showed robust retinotopic mapping of the remembered target angle. The map reversed when the direction of rotation of the remembered targets was reversed and persisted unchanged when study participants detected rare target reappearances while maintaining fixation, or when the eccentricity of successive remembered targets was unpredictable. This region may correspond to the lateral intraparietal area in macaque monkeys.
Event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging study of the extrastriate cortex response to a categorically ambiguous stimulus primed by letters and familiar geometric figures.	Functional neuroimaging studies have suggested a specific role of the extrastriate cortex in letter string and visual word form processing. However, this region has been shown to be involved in object recognition and its specificity for the processing of linguistic stimuli may be questioned. The authors used an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging design with category priming to record the response elicited by the passive viewing of single letters, geometric figures, and of the categorically ambiguous stimulus "O" that pertains to both sets of familiar symbols. Bilateral activations in the extrastriate cortex were found, with a left predominance particularly pronounced for the ambiguous stimulus. Individual analysis of spatial extent and signal intensity showed a priming x stimulus x hemisphere interaction. When primed by the congruous categoric set, a bilateral decrease in activation was observed for letters and geometric figures. The ambiguous stimulus behaved as a letter for the left hemisphere, with decreased activation when primed by letters, whereas in the right hemisphere, an adaptation effect occurred when primed by geometric figures. These priming effects suggest that, for the ambiguous stimulus, letter processing was systematically involved in the left extrastriate cortex. The current results support the existence of a neural substrate for the abstract category of letters.
Beyond the classical receptive field in the visual cortex.	We have investigated the organization of regions outside the classical receptive field (CRF) for neurons in the visual cortex. First, we have determined the incidence and nature of interactions from outside the CRF. We find interaction from regions outside the CRF for a majority of cortical cells and it is almost always of a suppressive nature. Second, we have determined that most interaction is from specific well-defined regions outside the CRF. These regions are generally as effective as what is found for a complete annulus. Third, it is possible to reverse the inhibition from outside the CRF by the addition of a second grating that is orthogonal to the preferred orientation. This disinhibition may completely offset the suppressive influence of the surround. Additional experiments suggest that this process is not necessarily involved in figure/ground analysis.
The dynamics of primate retinal ganglion cells.	A knowledge of the dynamics (temporal properties) of neuronal populations is essential for an understanding of their function, and is also crucial when one attempts to develop computational or mathematical models of the neurons. Here we review the temporal properties of the receptive fields (RFs) of the two best-studied types of ganglion cells in the primate retina, those that project to the parvocellular (P) and magnocellular (M) layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. The center and surround mechanisms of the P RFs are approximately linear, and their impulse responses are very similar, although the surround lags the center by a few milliseconds. The center and surround are chromatically opponent. With the appropriate stimulus, one can find significant nonlinearities in their responses, and also in the interaction between the center and surround. The phase lag between the responses of the center and surround depends on the temporal frequency, so that at high temporal frequency the antagonism between them is reduced or abolished. The temporal responses of M cells are nonlinear, and with increasing contrast they show the effects of a contrast gain control. The different dynamical properties of the two populations suggest that M cells participate in motion analysis, while P cells are used for the analysis of form, texture, and perhaps color.
Processing of second-order stimuli in the visual cortex.	Naturally occurring visual stimuli are rich in examples of objects delineated from their backgrounds simply by differences in luminance, so-called first-order stimuli, as well as those defined by differences of contrast or texture, referred to as second-order stimuli. Here we provide a brief overview of visual cortical processing of second-order stimuli, as well as some comparative background on first-order processing, concentrating on single-unit neurophysiology, but also discussing relationships to human psychophysics and to neuroimaging. The selectivity of visual cortical neurons to orientation, spatial frequency, and direction of movement of first-order, luminance-defined stimuli is conventionally understood in terms of simple linear filter models, albeit with some minor nonlinearities such as thresholding and gain control. However, these kinds of models fail entirely to account for responses of neurons to second-order stimuli such as contrast envelopes, illusory contours, or texture borders. Second-order stimuli constructed from sinusoidal components have been used to analyze the neurophysiological mechanisms of such responses; these experiments demonstrate that the same neuron can exhibit three distinct kinds of tuning to spatial frequency, and also to orientation. These results can be understood in terms of a type of nonlinear 'filter-->rectify-->filter' model, which has been widely used in human psychophysics. Finally, several general issues will be discussed, including potential artifacts in experiments with second-order stimuli, and strategies for avoiding or controlling for them; caveats about definitions of first- vs. second-order mechanisms and stimuli; the concept of form-cue invariance; and the functional significance of second-order processing.
Cortical mechanisms of binocular stereoscopic vision.	The early neurophysiology of binocular vision is largely dominated by measurements of disparity selectivity in cortical neurons in various visual areas. Incisive progress has been made by the intensive study of the mechanism of disparity selectivity of V1 in cortical neurons and the development of a number of tests for the involvement of single neurons in the perception of stereoscopic depth. The picture that now emerges is that cortical area V1 must be a preliminary processing stage for the analysis of stereoscopic depth, whereas some of the extrastriate areas may actually be responsible for the generation of neuronal signals that underlie the perception of binocular depth.
Behavioral cartography of visual functions in cat parietal cortex: areal and laminar dissociations.	The purpose of this review is to: (1) compare and contrast the relative contributions that the four principle regions in cat extrastriate parietal cortex make to a battery of visual tasks which require motion, spatial, or attentional processing; and (2) examine the laminar parcellation of visual behaviors within one of these parietal regions which mediates multiple visual behaviors. We examined a battery of visual tasks presumed to be mediated by parietal cortex, including direction of motion, differential motion, and landmark discriminations, and visual orienting to moving stimuli. As a control, we also examined performance on form (pattern and object) recognition tasks mediated by the temporal processing stream. The four regions of parietal cortex we examined included the: middle suprasylvian (MS) gyrus (area 7), anterior middle suprasylvian (aMS) sulcus (AMLS, ALLS), posterior middle suprasylvian (pMS) sulcus (PMLS, PLLS), and the dorsal posterior suprasylvian (dPS) gyrus (area 21a). The contributions made to each of the six different behavioral tasks was examined before, during, and after reversible cooling deactivation of each cortical area. Deactivation of pMS sulcal cortex resulted in deficits on all four tasks that required motion, spatial or attentional processing. Deactivation of aMS sulcal cortex resulted in deficits on only tasks that required motion processing. Deactivation of neither aMS nor pMS sulcal cortex yielded any deficits on the form recognition tasks. In contrast, deactivation of dPS cortex only produced deficits on the form recognition tasks. This finding confirmed our early hypothesis that dPS cortex is a key component of the temporal, and not the parietal, processing stream. Regardless of the task, no deficits were identified on any of the six tasks during deactivation of the MS gyrus. We then more closely examined pMS sulcal cortex to determine if its multiple functions could be dissociated on a laminar level. We found that cooling deactivation of the superficial layers (I-III) of pMS sulcal cortex selectively and completely impaired performance on the direction of motion discrimination task, while leaving visual attention unimpaired. Additional deactivation of the deeper layers (IV-VI) resulted in impaired visual attention as assessed with visual orienting. These results show a functional bipartite division of labor between upper and lower cortical layers of pMS sulcal cortex. Therefore, spatial, motion and attentional functions can be localized within visuoparietal cortex on both an areal and laminar level.
Visual cortex organization in primates: theories of V3 and adjoining visual areas.	After years of experimentation and substantial progress, there is still only limited agreement on how visual cortex in primates is organized, and what features of this organization are variable or stable across lines of primate phylogeny. Only three visual areas, V1, V2, and MT, are widely recognized as common to all primates, although there are certainly more. Here we consider various concepts of how the cortex along the outer border of V2 is organized. An early proposal was that this region is occupied by a V3 that is as wide and as long as V2, and represents the visual hemifield as a mirror image of V2. We refer to this notion as the classical V3 or V3-C. Another proposal is that only the dorsal half of V3-C exists, the half representing the lower visual quadrant, and thus the representation is incomplete (V3-I) by half. A version of this proposal is that V3-I is discontinuous, extremely thin in places, and highly variable across individuals, much as a vestigial or degenerate structure might be (V3-IF-incomplete and fragmented). A fourth proposal is that there is no V3. Many results suggest that a series of visual areas border V2, none of which has the characteristics of V3. Alternatively, the possibility exists that primate taxa differ with regard to visual areas bordering V2. Currently, much of the supporting evidence for a classical V3 comes from fMRI studies in humans, much of the evidence for a series of bordering areas comes from New World Monkeys and prosimian galagos, and much of the evidence for a V3-I or V3-IF comes from macaque monkeys. Possibly all these interpretations of visual cortex organization are valid, but each for only one of the major groups of primate evolution. Here, we suggest that none of these interpretations is correct, and propose instead that a modified V3 (V3-M) exists in a similar form in all primates. This V3-M is smaller and thinner than V3-C, discontinuous in the middle, but with comparable dorsal and ventral halves representing the lower and upper visual hemifields, respectively. Because the evidence for V3-M is limited, and it stems in part from our ongoing but incomplete comparative studies of V1 connections in primates, this suggestion requires further experimental evaluation and it remains tentative.
From attentional gating in macaque primary visual cortex to dyslexia in humans.	Selective attention is an important aspect of brain function that we need in coping with the immense and constant barrage of sensory information. One model of attention (Feature Integration Theory) that suggests an early selection of spatial locations of objects via an attentional spotlight would also solve the 'binding problem' (that is how do different attributes of each object get correctly bound together?). Our experiments have demonstrated modulation of specific locations of interest at the level of the primary visual cortex both in visual discrimination and memory tasks, where the actual locations of the targets was also important in being able to perform the task. It is suggested that the feedback mediating the modulation arises from the posterior parietal cortex, which would also be consistent with its known role in attentional control. In primates, the magnocellular (M) and parvocellular (P) pathways are the two major streams of inputs from the retina, carrying distinctly different types of information and they remain fairly segregated in their projections to the primary visual cortex and further into the extra-striate regions. The P inputs go mainly into the ventral (temporal) stream, while the dorsal (parietal) stream is dominated by M inputs. A theory of attentional gating is proposed here where the M dominated dorsal stream gates the P inputs into the ventral stream. This framework is used to provide a neural explanation of the processes involved in reading and in learning to read. This scheme also explains how a magnocellular deficit could cause the common reading impairment, dyslexia.
Higher-order motion processing in the pulvinar.	Thalamic nuclei have long been considered as passive relay stations for sensory signals en route to the cerebral cortex, where higher level processing occurs. In recent years, it has been proposed that thalamic nuclei may actively participate in the processing of specific information in conjunction with cortical areas. In support of this hypothesis, we recently discovered that neurons in the main extrageniculate visual nucleus, the pulvinar, exhibit higher-order visual properties that were, until now, only associated with higher-order cortical areas. Pulvinar neurons can indeed code the veridical direction of a moving plaid pattern, indicating that these cells can integrate ambiguous signals into a coherent percept. This finding as well as our demonstration that there are cortico-thalamo-cortical loops involved in complex motion analysis open promising avenues in unraveling the function of the pulvinar complex in normal vision.
Neural mechanisms for the generation of visual complex cells.	In 1962, Hubel and Wiesel reported what they later described as "the first description of a clear function for the cerebral cortex, in terms of clear differences between input and output". Martinez and Alonso (2001[this issue of Neuron]) now provide evidence for the hierarchical neural circuit that Hubel and Wiesel proposed to explain the cortical transformation from simple to complex cells.
Estimating receptive field size from fMRI data in human striate and extrastriate visual cortex.	Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to estimate the average receptive field sizes of neurons in each of several striate and extrastriate visual areas of the human cerebral cortex. The boundaries of the visual areas were determined by retinotopic mapping procedures and were visualized on flattened representations of the occipital cortex. Estimates of receptive field size were derived from the temporal duration of the functional activation at each cortical location as a visual stimulus passed through the receptive fields represented at that location. Receptive fields are smallest in the primary visual cortex (V1). They are larger in V2, larger again in V3/VP and largest of all in areas V3A and V4. In all these areas, receptive fields increase in size with increasing stimulus eccentricity. The results are qualitatively in line with those obtained by others in macaque monkeys using neurophysiological methods.
A threshold explains modulation of neural responses to opposite-contrast stereograms.	Disparity-sensitive neurons respond to contrast-inverted stereograms (aRDS) that do not evoke depth percepts. This is in conflict with the idea that such neurons are the direct correlate of depth perception. However, the output of neurons responding to aRDS may be further processed: neurons at later processing stages show weaker responses to aRDS than early stage neurons. Here, we show that such a response hierarchy emerges in a three-layered neural network. A numerical analysis demonstrates that threshold operations can largely explain the network's behavior as well as the electrophysiological data. An extension of the energy neuron model for disparity-sensitive neurons predicts increased responses to aRDS for an identifiable sub-class of cells and can thus be tested in electrophysiological experiments.
Dynamics of orientation tuning in macaque V1: the role of global and tuned suppression.	The temporal development of neural selectivity to physical attributes of a visual stimulus, such as its orientation and spatial frequency, can provide important clues about mechanisms of cortical tuning. We measured the dynamics of orientation tuning in macaque primary visual cortex (V1) and found several dynamical features in the data: changes in global enhancement and suppression, narrowing of orientation bandwidth, small but significant shifts in preferred orientation, and "Mexican-hat" tuning curves. The dynamics data were analyzed with a model that sums two fixed, tuned components (enhancement and suppression) and one global (untuned) component. The analysis suggests that there is early global enhancement followed by global and tuned suppression. Tuned suppression accounts for the dynamical reduction of orientation bandwidth and for the generation of Mexican-hat tuning profiles. Our findings imply that global and tuned suppression are important factors that determine the selectivity and dynamics of V1 responses to orientation.
Oblique effect: a neural basis in the visual cortex.	The details of oriented visual stimuli are better resolved when they are horizontal or vertical rather than oblique. This "oblique effect" has been confirmed in numerous behavioral studies in humans and to some extent in animals. However, investigations of its neural basis have produced mixed and inconclusive results, presumably due in part to limited sample sizes. We have used a database to analyze a population of 4,418 cells in the cat's striate cortex to determine possible differences as a function of orientation. We find that both the numbers of cells and the widths of orientation tuning vary as a function of preferred orientation. Specifically, more cells prefer horizontal and vertical orientations compared with oblique angles. The largest population of cells is activated by orientations close to horizontal. In addition, orientation tuning widths are most narrow for cells preferring horizontal orientations. These findings are most prominent for simple cells tuned to high spatial frequencies. Complex cells and simple cells tuned to low spatial frequencies do not exhibit these anisotropies. For a subset of simple cells from our population (n = 104), we examined the relative contributions of linear and nonlinear mechanisms in shaping orientation tuning curves. We find that linear contributions alone do not account for the narrower tuning widths at horizontal orientations. By modeling simple cells as linear filters followed by static expansive nonlinearities, our analysis indicates that horizontally tuned cells have a greater nonlinear component than those tuned to other orientations. This suggests that intracortical mechanisms play a major role in shaping the oblique effect.
Correlations, feature-binding and population coding in primary visual cortex.	To test the hypothesis that correlated neuronal activity serves as the neuronal code for visual feature binding, we applied information theory techniques to multiunit activity recorded from pairs of V1 recording sites in anaesthetised cats while presenting either single or separate bar stimuli. We quantified the roles of firing rates of individual channels and of cross-correlations between recording sites in encoding of visual information. Between 89 and 96% of the information was carried by firing rates; correlations contributed 4-11% extra information. The distribution across the population of either correlation strength or correlation information did not co-vary systematically with changes in perception predicted by Gestalt psychology. These results suggest that firing rates, rather than correlations, are the main element of the population code for feature binding in primary visual cortex.
Rapid detection of threshold VEPs.	To determine whether a one-dimensional (1D) Laplacian analysis detects steady-state visual evoked potentials (ssVEPs) faster than the standard O(z)-F(z) montage and to establish the optimum position of Laplacian reference electrodes.
The effects of collinearity and orientation on texture visual evoked potentials.	The aim of the research was to study the effects of stimulus orientation at both the local (textons) and the global (segregated elements) level on texture visual evoked potentials (tVEPs).
Cortical correlates of vestibulo-ocular reflex modulation: a PET study.	To elucidate cortical correlates of vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) modulation, we observed cortical activation during fixation suppression and habituation of caloric vestibular nystagmus in 12 normal subjects, using PET. Significant positive correlation between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and slow phase eye velocity of caloric nystagmus was observed in the middle and posterior insula, inferior parietal lobule, temporal pole, right fusiform gyrus, lingual gyrus, and cerebellar vermis and hemisphere. The rCBF increase in the insular region and the inferior parietal lobule was lateralized depending on the direction of the nystagmus. Caloric nystagmus was suppressed as a result of visual fixation, during which time the area around the right frontal eye field, temporal pole, inferior temporal gyrus, a broad area in the visual cortex, including fusiform and lingual gyrus, cerebellar uvula/nodulus and flocculus, exhibited positive correlation with fixation suppression of caloric nystagmus, while vestibular cortices exhibited negative correlation. The caloric nystagmus habituated with repetition of stimulation. With habituation, we observed activation in the right anterior cingulate gyrus, left superior parietal lobule and right cuneus, and deactivation in the anterior insula, cingulate gyrus, inferior parietal lobule and occipito-temporal visual cortex. The region that showed significant co-activation with fixation suppression and habituation of caloric nystagmus was the right cuneus, and significant co-deactivation was observed in the anterior insula, cingulate gyrus, inferior parietal lobule and middle temporal visual cortex. The present results support previous observations that the parieto-insular cortex and inferior parietal lobule are involved in processing of vestibular information, and, in addition, suggest that activation may depend on the direction of nystagmus. Deactivation of vestibular cortices during visual fixation supports the concept of inhibitory visual-vestibular interaction in the cortex. Significant activation of the cingulate, superior parietal and visual cortices, and cerebellar vermis accompanying reduction of caloric response with repeated stimuli suggests possible involvement of these regions in vestibular habituation. Common activation of the cuneus in visual cortex and deactivation of vestibular and visuo-spatial association cortices by both visual suppression and habituation of VOR suggests that these two mechanisms are not completely independent but may share some cortical and subcortical regions.
The receptive-field organization of simple cells in primary visual cortex of ferrets under natural scene stimulation.	The responses of simple cells in primary visual cortex to sinusoidal gratings can primarily be predicted from their spatial receptive fields, as mapped using spots or bars. Although this quasilinearity is well documented, it is not clear whether it holds for complex natural stimuli. We recorded from simple cells in the primary visual cortex of anesthetized ferrets while stimulating with flashed digitized photographs of natural scenes. We applied standard reverse-correlation methods to quantify the average natural stimulus that invokes a neuronal response. Although these maps cannot be the receptive fields, we find that they still predict the preferred orientation of grating for each cell very well (r = 0.91); they do not predict the spatial-frequency tuning. Using a novel application of the linear reconstruction method called regularized pseudoinverse, we were able to recover high-resolution receptive-field maps from the responses to a relatively small number of natural scenes. These receptive-field maps not only predict the optimum orientation of each cell (r = 0.96) but also the spatial-frequency optimum (r = 0.89); the maps also predict the tuning bandwidths of many cells. Therefore, our first conclusion is that the tuning preferences of the cells are primarily linear and constant across stimulus type. However, when we used these maps to predict the actual responses of the cells to natural scenes, we did find evidence of expansive output nonlinearity and nonlinear influences from outside the classical receptive fields, orientation tuning, and spatial-frequency tuning.
Electrophysiology.	Numerous electrophysiologic tests are available for use in the clinic. When properly recorded and analyzed, these tests provide important diagnostic and prognostic information about the site and nature of the disease process. If the results from these tests are combined with psychophysical findings (color vision, acuity, visual fields), their usefulness in defining disease can be further extended.
Repetition effects elicited by objects and their contexts: an fMRI study.	Event-related fMRI responses were recorded during a recognition memory test for previously studied visual objects. Some studied objects were superimposed on the same context (landscape scenes) as at study, some were superimposed on a different studied context, and some were paired with new contexts. Unstudied objects were paired with either a studied or a new context. Relative to all other stimulus classes, test stimuli where both components were unstudied elicited enhanced responses in lateral and ventral extrastriate visual cortex. This effect, which is analogous to a previously described electrophysiological result obtained with the same experimental procedure, had the same magnitude regardless of whether a test item was composed of one or two studied components, or whether a single studied component was task relevant or task irrelevant. The findings point to the existence of repetition-sensitive neural mechanisms that operate in a non-linear manner.
Feedback contributions to visual awareness in human occipital cortex.	It has traditionally been assumed that processing within the visual system proceeds in a bottom-up, feedforward manner from retina to higher cortical areas. In addition to feedforward processing, it is now clear that there are also important contributions to sensory encoding that rely upon top-down, feedback (reentrant) projections from higher visual areas to lower ones. By utilizing transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) in a metacontrast masking paradigm, we addressed whether feedback processes in early visual cortex play a role in visual awareness. We show that TMS of visual cortex, when timed to produce visual suppression of an annulus serving as a metacontrast mask, induces recovery of an otherwise imperceptible disk. In addition to producing disk recovery, TMS suppression of an annulus was greater when a disk preceded it than when an annulus was presented alone. This latter result suggests that there are effects of the disk on the perceptibility of the subsequent mask that are additive and are revealed with TMS of the visual cortex. These results demonstrate spatial and temporal interactions of conscious vision in visual cortex and suggest that a prior visual stimulus can influence subsequent perception at early stages of visual encoding via feedback projections.
Spatial vs. object specific attention in high-order visual areas.	Recently we reported that the topographic organization of visual field eccentricity in human visual cortex extends into high-order, ventral occipitotemporal (VOT) cortex. Within this cortex, regions that respond preferentially to faces and buildings have specific eccentricity biases, suggesting that this category-eccentricity association may reflect differential needs of recognition processes. However, it is still not clear to what extent this center/periphery differentiation within high-order occipitotemporal cortex depends on immediate, moment-to-moment, task demands. Previous attention studies were confined either to exploring the visual field topography (spatial attention) or to object identity (object-based attention). Here, we combined the investigation of these two different attentional mechanisms in the same study. We found that the main source of attentional modulation in occipitotemporal cortex was object-based attention. Shifting attention to different object categories (buildings, faces, and arrows) substantially modulated the object-related activations. The differential activation to each object category in occipitotemporal object areas was maintained, albeit at a reduced level, even when attention was focused on different spatial locations. A slight eccentricity-related attentional differentiation was observed in the more dorsal lateral occipital region, but not in the VOT cortex. These results argue against the possibility that the source of the eccentricity differentiation in VOT cortex is due solely to moment-to-moment shifts in spatial attention mechanism and supports the notion that the eccentricity-biased maps found in this region are due to built-in shape selectivity established over long-term processes.
Ocular dominance plasticity in mature mice.	Ocular dominance plasticity, classically thought to be restricted to an early critical period, is now described by Sawtell et al. in fully adult mice. Adult plasticity, like critical period plasticity, requires cortical NMDA receptors but involves different functional changes in cortical circuits.
Retinotopic mapping reveals extrastriate cortical basis of homonymous quadrantanopia.	It has been conventionally assumed that cortically based quadrantic visual field deficits (homonymous quadrantanopias) are caused by lesions in striate cortex (V1), extending precisely to the horizontal meridian representation. A more recent model, supported by anatomic MRI evidence, consists of an exclusively extrastriate cortical basis (e.g. V2, V3, VP, V4v). Employing fMRI, we sought to distinguish between these models through retinotopic mapping of a patient with an upper right homonymous quadrantanopia. As expected, maps of the lower right quadrant and left hemifield were normal. The map corresponding to the impaired upper right quadrant was normal in V1 and V2, with little or no activity in VP and V4v. These results provide functional evidence that extrastriate cortical lesions can elicit homonymous quadrantanopias.
Detection of visual change: mismatch or rareness?	How do we detect changes in our visual environment? By continuously comparing visual inputs to templates of experiences in the immediate past? Or by determining their rareness, how infrequently a visual event occurred previously? Recent results from event-related potentials have been interpreted in favour of the first hypothesis, as in the case of the auditory mismatch negativity. Here we demonstrate that rareness, rather than mismatch with a template, underlies visual change detection. Such rareness is detected through a dedicated mechanism in human visual cortex about 100 ms after the rare event occurs, reflected in the rareness-related negativity (RRN).
Mapping multiple features in the population response of visual cortex.	Stimulus features such as edge orientation, motion direction and spatial frequency are thought to be encoded in the primary visual cortex by overlapping feature maps arranged so that the location of neurons activated by a particular combination of stimulus features can be predicted from the intersections of these maps. This view is based on the use of grating stimuli, which limit the range of stimulus combinations that can be examined. We used optical imaging of intrinsic signals in ferrets to assess patterns of population activity evoked by the motion of a texture (a field of iso-oriented bars). Here we show that the same neural population can be activated by multiple combinations of orientation, length, motion axis and speed. Rather than reflecting the intersection of multiple maps, our results indicate that population activity in primary visual cortex is better described as a single map of spatiotemporal energy.
Sensory perception during sleep and meditation: common features and differences.	Sleep and meditation are both physiological conditions in which peripheral sensory input is voluntarily reduced, but sensory perception of internally generated information continues. However, the two conditions differ in the level of awareness retained.
Coding of the contrasts in natural images by populations of neurons in primary visual cortex (V1).	It is possible to discriminate between grating contrasts over a 300-fold contrast range, whereas V1 neurons have very limited dynamic ranges. Using populations of model neurons with contrast-response parameters taken from electrophysiological studies (cat and macaque), we investigated ways of combining responses to code contrast over the full range. One model implemented a pooling rule that retained information about individual response patterns. The second summed responses indiscriminately. We measured accuracy of contrast identification over a wide range of contrasts and found the first model to be more accurate; the mutual information between actual and estimated contrast was also greatest for this model. The accuracy peak for the population of cat neurons coincided with the peak of the distribution of contrasts in natural images, suggesting an ecological match. Macaque neurons seem better able to code contrasts that are slightly higher on average than those found in the natural environment.
Visual field anisotropy revealed by perceptual filling-in.	Four experiments were performed to investigate how the time required for perceptual filling-in varies with the position of the target in the visual field. Conventional studies have revealed that filling-in is facilitated by a target with greater eccentricity, while no systematic studies have examined the effect of polar angle. Experiment 1 examined the effect of polar angle when the target and surround differed in luminance. Filling-in was facilitated as the target position changed from the horizontal to the vertical meridian. This dependency was more prominent in the upper field than in the lower, although no asymmetry was found between the left and right visual fields. These features were observed in both monocular and binocular viewing. These results were replicated in a modified stimulus configuration, in which the surround was a circular region concentric with the target (Experiment 2). Moreover, it was confirmed that the asymmetry was not due to fluctuation in the retinal image (i.e., eye movement) (Experiment 3). Finally, Experiment 4 examined whether this anisotropy was observed when two differently oriented gratings were presented in the target and surround regions. Again, filling-in was facilitated for a target close to the vertical meridian, irrespective of the relationship between the target and surround orientations. The underlying mechanism of this anisotropy is discussed from the viewpoints of cortical magnification and neural connections in the visual cortex.
An integrated network for invariant visual detection and recognition.	We describe an architecture for invariant visual detection and recognition. Learning is performed in a single central module. The architecture makes use of a replica module consisting of copies of retinotopic layers of local features, with a particular design of inputs and outputs, that allows them to be primed either to attend to a particular location, or to attend to a particular object representation. In the former case the data at a selected location can be classified in the central module. In the latter case all instances of the selected object are detected in the field of view. The architecture is used to explain a number of psychophysical and physiological observations: object based attention, the different response time slopes of target detection among distractors, and observed attentional modulation of neuronal responses. We hypothesize that the organization of visual cortex in columns of neurons responding to the same feature at the same location may provide the copying architecture needed for translation invariance.
Adaptation characteristics of steady-state motion visual evoked potentials.	Motion visual evoked potentials (motion VEPs) are used in clinical diagnosis and basic research. Employing steady-state rather than the usual transient motion VEPs simplifies statistical evaluation and might drastically reduce examination durations. Protocols for recording transient motion-onset VEPs usually involve fairly long recovery intervals between trials to avoid neural adaptation. This is not feasible for steady-state VEPs. We investigated how adaptation affects the steady-state motion VEP.
Long-term potentiation in visual cortical projections to the medial prefrontal cortex of the rat.	In order to investigate neural mechanisms by which the prefrontal cortex adaptively modifies its activities based on past experience, we examined whether or not sensory cortical projections to the medial prefrontal cortex support long-term potentiation (LTP) in rats. Monosynaptic projections from the secondary visual cortex, mediomedial area (V2MM) to the infralimbic cortex were confirmed by orthodromic as well as antidromic activation of single units. High-frequency stimulation (50 Hz, 2 s) induced LTP (approximately 45% increase over the baseline) in the V2MM projection to the infralimbic cortex. LTP induction in this pathway was completely blocked by an injection (i.p.) of CPP, an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist. LTP was also induced in the ventral hippocampal projection to the infralimbic cortex by the same high-frequency stimulation. The present results suggest that modification of synaptic weights of afferent sensory cortical projections is one mechanism underlying learning-induced changes in prefrontal cortical neural activities.
Explicit neural representations, recursive neural networks and conscious visual perception.	The fundamental question as to whether the neural correlates of any given conscious visual experience are expressed locally within a given cortical area or more globally within some widely distributed network remains unresolved. We inquire as to whether recursive processing-by which we mean the combined flow and integrated outcome of afferent and recurrent activity across a series of cortical areas-is essential for the emergence of conscious visual experience. If so, we further inquire as to whether such recursive processing is essential only for loops between extrastriate cortical areas explicitly representing experiences such as color or motion back to V1 or whether it is processing between still higher levels and the areas computing such explicit representations that is exclusively or additionally essential for visual experience. If recursive processing is not essential for the emergence of conscious visual experience, then it should also be possible to determine whether it is only the intracortical sensory processing within areas computing explicit sensory representations that is required for perceptual experience or whether it is the subsequent processing of the output of such areas within more anterior cortical regions that engenders perception. The present analysis suggests that the questions posed here may ultimately become experimentally resolvable. Whatever the outcome, the results will likely open new approaches to identify the neural correlates of conscious visual perception.
Laminar development of receptive fields, maps and columns in visual cortex: the coordinating role of the subplate.	How is development of cortical maps in V1 coordinated across cortical layers to form cortical columns? Previous neural models propose how maps of orientation (OR), ocular dominance (OD), and related properties develop in V1. These models show how spontaneous activity, before eye opening, combined with correlation learning and competition, can generate maps similar to those found in vivo. These models have not discussed laminar architecture or how cells develop and coordinate their connections across cortical layers. This is an important problem since anatomical evidence shows that clusters of horizontal connections form, between iso-oriented regions, in layer 2/3 before being innervated by layer 4 afferents. How are orientations in different layers aligned before these connections form? Anatomical evidence demonstrates that thalamic afferents wait in the subplate for weeks before innervating layer 4. Other evidence shows that ablation of the cortical subplate interferes with the development of OR and OD columns. The model proposes how the subplate develops OR and OD maps, which then entrain and coordinate the development of maps in other lamina. The model demonstrates how these maps may develop in layer 4 by using a known transient subplate-to-layer 4 circuit as a teacher. The model subplate also guides the early clustering of horizontal connections in layer 2/3, and the formation of the interlaminar circuitry that forms cortical columns. It is shown how layer 6 develops and helps to stabilize the network when the subplate atrophies. Finally the model clarifies how brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) manipulations may influence cortical development.
The representation of retinal blood vessels in primate striate cortex.	The blood vessels that nourish the inner retina cast shadows on photoreceptors, creating "angioscotomas" in the visual field. We have found the representations of angioscotomas in striate cortex of the squirrel monkey. They were detected in 9 of 12 normal adult animals by staining flatmounts for cytochrome oxidase activity after enucleation of one eye. They appeared as thin profiles in layer 4C radiating from the blind spot representation. Angioscotomas can be regarded as a local form of amblyopia. After birth, when light strikes the retina, photoreceptors beneath blood vessels are denied normal visual stimulation. This deprivation induces remodeling of geniculocortical afferents in a distribution that corresponds to the retinal vascular tree. Angioscotoma representations were most obvious in monkeys with fine ocular dominance columns and were invisible in monkeys with large, well segregated columns. In monkeys without columns, their width corresponded faithfully to the inducing retinal shadow, making it possible to calculate the minimum shadow required to produce a cortical representation. The "amblyogenic threshold" was calculated as the fraction of the pupil area eclipsed to trigger remodeling of geniculocortical afferents. It was found to be constant over retinal eccentricity, vessel size, and shadow size. Ambliogenic shadows only three to four cones wide were sufficient to generate a cortical representation, testifying to the remarkable precision of the cortical map. The representations of retinal blood vessels separated by only 0.65 degrees were resolvable in the cortex, yielding an upper limit on cortical resolution of 340 microm in layer 4C.
Self-organizing neural network model of motion processing in the visual cortex during smooth pursuit.	A physiologically based neural network model was constructed to study cortical motion processing during pursuit eye movements. The model consists of three layers of computational units, simulating information processing by direction selective neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1), motion selective neurons in the middle-temporal area, and pursuit selective neurons in the middle-superior-temporal (MST) area. MST units integrate visual and eye-movement related information, and their connections develop during an unsupervised training process. The resulting MST units represent a transition from retinal to real-world reference frame. By analyzing the model connectivity, mechanisms underlying the functions performed by the network are studied.
Ocular dominance columns in area 17 of Old World macaque and talapoin monkeys: complete reconstructions and quantitative analyses.	The effects of monocular deprivation on cytochrome-oxidase (CO) expression were used to reveal ocular dominance columns in flatmounts of the striate cortex in macaque (Macaca fascicularis) and talapoin (Miopithecus talapoin) monkeys. This procedure allowed the first direct visualization of the complete pattern of ocular dominance bands in macaque monkeys, and less complete reconstructions in talapoin monkeys. In a second macaque monkey, the ocular dominance organization was revealed by injecting wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) into one eye. The organization of ocular dominance columns in the macaque monkeys conforms to previous descriptions, but the flat-mounted hemispheres provide accurate details on (1) the arrangement of columns, (2) the orientation of the representation of the optic disc, and (3) the breakdown of the bands in the cortex between the optic disc and monocular representations into a pattern of dots activated by the ipsilateral eye and larger surrounds related to the contralateral eye. Talapoin monkeys, the smallest of Old World monkeys, have sharply segregated ocular dominance bands. The columns in talapoins are narrower than those in macaques, so that even with less striate cortex than macaques, talapoins have more ocular dominance hypercolumns.
Brief visual experience induces immediate early gene expression in the cat visual cortex.	Brief visual experience causes rapid physiological changes in the visual cortex during early postnatal development. A possible mediator of these effects is the immediate early genes whose protein products are involved in the rapid response of neurons to transsynaptic stimulation. Here we report evidence that the levels of immediate early gene mRNAs in the visual cortex can be altered by manipulating the visual environment. Specifically, we find that brief (1 h) visual experience in dark-reared cats causes dramatic transient inductions of egr1, c-fos, and junB mRNAs in the visual cortex but not in the frontal cortex. Levels of c-jun and c-myc mRNAs are unaffected. These results suggest that select combinatorial interactions of immediate early gene proteins are an important step in the cascade of events through which visually elicited activity controls visual cortical development.
Body scheme gates visual processing.	We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to explore how guidance of motor acts is influenced by the visually perceived body scheme. We found that when subjects view their hand as their opposite hand, i.e., the right hand is seen as the left hand and vice versa, activation in the visual cortex was lateralized opposite to the seen hand. This demonstrates for the first time that our body scheme to which vision relates our environment is already represented at the level of visual cortex.
Dynamic properties of corticogeniculate excitatory transmission in the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in vitro.	The feedback excitation from the primary visual cortex to principal cells in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) is markedly enhanced with firing frequency. This property presumably reflects the ample short-term plasticity at the corticogeniculate synapse. The present study aims to explore corticogeniculate excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by brief trains of stimulation with whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in dLGN slices from DA-HAN rats. The EPSCs rapidly increased in amplitude with the first two or three impulses followed by a more gradual growth. A double exponential function with time constants 39 and 450 ms empirically described the growth for 5-25Hz trains. For lower train frequencies (down to 1Hz) a third component with time constant 4.8 s had to be included. The different time constants are suggested to represent fast and slow components of facilitation and augmentation. The time constant of the fast component changed with the extracellular calcium ion concentration as expected for a facilitation mechanism involving an endogenous calcium buffer that is more efficiently saturated with larger calcium influx. Concerning the function of the corticogeniculate feedback pathway, the different components of short-term plasticity interacted to increase EPSC amplitudes on a linear scale to firing frequency in the physiological range. This property makes the corticogeniculate synapse well suited to function as a neuronal amplifier that enhances the thalamic transfer of visual information to the cortex.
Augmentation of corticogeniculate EPSCs in principal cells of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the rat investigated in vitro.	Augmentation is a component of short-term synaptic plasticity with a gradual onset and duration in seconds. To investigate this component at the corticogeniculate synapse, whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from principal cells in a slice preparation of the rat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Trains with 10 stimuli at 25 Hz evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) that grew in amplitude, primarily from facilitation. Such trains also induced augmentation that decayed exponentially with a time constant tau= 4.6 +/- 2.6 s (mean +/- standard deviation). When the trains were repeated at 1-10 s intervals, augmentation markedly increased the size of the first EPSCs, leaving late EPSCs unaffected. The magnitude of augmentation was dependent on the number of pulses, pulse rate and intervals between trains. Augmented EPSCs changed proportionally to basal EPSC amplitudes following alterations in extracellular calcium ion concentration. The results indicate that augmentation is determined by residual calcium remaining in the presynaptic terminal after repetitive spikes, competing with fast facilitation. We propose that augmentation serves to maintain a high synaptic strength in the corticogeniculate positive feedback system during attentive visual exploration.
The effect of learning on the function of monkey extrastriate visual cortex.	One of the most remarkable capabilities of the adult brain is its ability to learn and continuously adapt to an ever-changing environment. While many studies have documented how learning improves the perception and identification of visual stimuli, relatively little is known about how it modifies the underlying neural mechanisms. We trained monkeys to identify natural images that were degraded by interpolation with visual noise. We found that learning led to an improvement in monkeys' ability to identify these indeterminate visual stimuli. We link this behavioral improvement to a learning-dependent increase in the amount of information communicated by V4 neurons. This increase was mediated by a specific enhancement in neural activity. Our results reveal a mechanism by which learning increases the amount of information that V4 neurons are able to extract from the visual environment. This suggests that V4 plays a key role in resolving indeterminate visual inputs by coordinated interaction between bottom-up and top-down processing streams.
Contextually evoked object-specific responses in human visual cortex.	Human visual recognition processes are remarkably robust and can function effectively even under highly degraded viewing conditions. Contextual information may play a critical role in such circumstances. Here, we provide neurophysiological evidence that contextual cues can elicit object-specific neural responses, which have hitherto been believed to be based on intrinsic cues alone. Specifically, we find that the "fusiform face area" (FFA) maintains its selectivity for faces without regard to whether the faces are defined intrinsically or contextually. This finding further elucidates the role of the FFA and reveals neural correlates of contextual processing in the service of robust object recognition.
Intracortical mechanism of stimulus-timing-dependent plasticity in visual cortical orientation tuning.	Visual stimuli are known to induce various changes in the receptive field properties of adult cortical neurons, but the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. Repetitive pairing of stimuli at two orientations can induce a shift in cortical orientation tuning, with the direction and magnitude of the shift depending on the temporal order and interval between the pair. Although the temporal specificity of the effect on the order of tens of milliseconds strongly suggests spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity (STDP) as the underlying mechanism, it remains unclear whether the modification occurs within the cortex or at earlier stages of the visual pathway. In the present study, we examined the involvement of an intracortical mechanism in this functional modification. First, we measured interocular transfer of the shift induced by monocular conditioning. We found complete transfer of the effect at both the physiological and psychophysical levels, indicating that the modification occurs largely in the cortex. Second, we analyzed the spike timing of cortical neurons during conditioning and found it commensurate with the requirement of STDP. Finally, we compared the measured shift in orientation tuning with the prediction of a model circuit that exhibits STDP at intracortical connections. This model can account for not only the temporal specificity of the effect but also the dependence of the shift on both orientations in the conditioning pair. These results indicate that modification of intracortical connections is a key mechanism in the stimulus-timing-dependent plasticity in orientation tuning.
Circulatory basis of fMRI signals: relationship between changes in the hemodynamic parameters and BOLD signal intensity.	Blood oxygenation level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging (BOLD-fMRI) is widely used as a tool for functional brain mapping. During brain activation, increases in the regional blood flow lead to an increase in blood oxygenation and a decrease in paramagnetic deoxygenated hemoglobin (deoxy-Hb), causing an increase in the MR signal intensity at the site of brain activation. However, not a few studies using fMRI have failed to detect activation of areas that ought to have been activated. We assigned BOLD-positive (an increase in the signal intensity), BOLD-negative (a decrease in the signal intensity), and BOLD-silent (no change) brain activation to respective circulatory conditions through a description of fMRI signals as a function of the concentration of oxygenated Hb (oxy-Hb) and deoxy-Hb obtained with near-infrared optical imaging (NIOI). Using this model, we explain the sensory motor paradox in terms of BOLD-positive, BOLD-negative, and BOLD-silent brain activation.
Neural basis of pantomiming the use of visually presented objects.	Neuropsychological studies of patients suffering from apraxia strongly imply a left hemisphere basis for skillful object use, the neural mechanisms of which, however, remain to be elucidated. We therefore carried out a PET study in 14 healthy human volunteers with the aim to isolate the neural mechanisms underlying the sensorimotor transformation of object-triggers into skilled actions. We employed a factorial design with two factors (
The temporal frequency tuning of human visual cortex investigated using synthetic aperture magnetometry.	Using synthetic aperture magnetometry (SAM) analyses of magnetoencephalographic (MEG) data, we investigated the variation in cortical response magnitude and frequency as a function of stimulus temporal frequency. In two separate experiments, a reversing checkerboard stimulus was used in the right or left lower visual field at frequencies from 0 to 21 Hz. Average temporal frequency tuning curves were constructed for regions-of-interest located within medial visual cortex and V5/MT. In medial visual cortex, it was found that both the frequency and magnitude of the steady-state response varied as a function of the stimulus frequency, with multiple harmonics of the stimulus frequency being found in the response. The maximum fundamental response was found at a stimulus frequency of 8 Hz, whilst the maximum broadband response occurred at 4 Hz. In contrast, the magnitude and frequency content of the evoked onset response showed no dependency on stimulus frequency. Whilst medial visual cortex showed a power increase during stimulation, extra-striate areas such as V5/MT exhibited a bilateral event-related desynchronisation (ERD). The frequency content of this ERD did not depend on the stimulus frequency but was a broadband power reduction across the 5-20 Hz frequency range. The magnitude of this ERD within V5/MT was strongly low-pass tuned for stimulus frequency, and showed only a moderate preference for stimuli in the contralateral visual field.
Variation of BOLD hemodynamic responses across subjects and brain regions and their effects on statistical analyses.	Estimates of hemodynamic response functions (HRF) are often integral parts of event-related fMRI analyses. Although HRFs vary across individuals and brain regions, few studies have investigated how variations affect the results of statistical analyses using the general linear model (GLM). In this study, we empirically estimated HRFs from primary motor and visual cortices and frontal and supplementary eye fields (SEF) in 20 subjects. We observed more variability across subjects than regions and correlated variation of time-to-peak values across several pairs of regions. Simulations examined the effects of observed variability on statistical results and ways different experimental designs and statistical models can limit these effects. Widely spaced and rapid event-related experimental designs with two sampling rates were tested. Statistical models compared an empirically derived HRF to a canonical HRF and included the first derivative of the HRF in the GLM. Small differences between the estimated and true HRFs did not cause false negatives, but larger differences within an observed range of variation, such as a 2.5-s time-to-onset misestimate, led to false negatives. Although small errors minimally affected detection of activity, time-to-onset misestimates as small as 1 s influenced model parameter estimation and therefore random effects analyses across subjects. Experiment and analysis design methods such as decreasing the sampling rate or including the HRF's temporal derivative in the GLM improved results, but did not eliminate errors caused by HRF misestimates. These results highlight the benefits of determining the best possible HRF estimate and potential negative consequences of assuming HRF consistency across subjects or brain regions.
Eyes open and eyes closed as rest conditions: impact on brain activation patterns.	The patterns of associated brain activations during eyes-open and eyes-closed states in complete darkness considerably differ in fMRI. An "interoceptive" state with the eyes closed is characterized by visual cortex activation, while an "exteroceptive" state with the eyes open is characterized by ocular motor system activity. The impact of the chosen rest condition (eyes open or eyes closed in complete darkness) on the pattern of brain activations during visual stimulation was evaluated in 14 healthy volunteers. During fixation or dim light room illumination, the activation of the visual cortex was larger with the eyes-open rest condition than with the eyes-closed rest condition; however, activation of the lateral geniculate nucleus was smaller. Activations that can be attributed to ocular motor structures, such as the prefrontal cortex, parietal and frontal eye fields, cerebellar vermis, the thalamus, and basal ganglia were larger with the eyes-closed rest condition than with the eyes-open rest condition. BOLD signal decreases of cortical areas that represent visual, somatosensory, auditory, and vestibular functions were seen in the comparison fixation of light emitting diode (LED) minus eyes closed. Thus, the choice of rest condition (either eyes closed or eyes open) is critical for stimulus-induced brain activation patterns. Activity of the ocular motor system as well as deactivation of sensory cortical areas may go undetected with eyes open as rest condition.
Tactile discrimination activates the visual cortex of the recently blind naive to Braille: a functional magnetic resonance imaging study in humans.	The occipital cortex of blind subjects is known to be activated during tactile discrimination tasks such as Braille reading. To investigate whether this is due to long-term learning of Braille or to sensory deafferentation, we used fMRI to study tactile discrimination tasks in subjects who had recently lost their sight and never learned Braille. The occipital cortex of the blind subjects without Braille training was activated during the tactile discrimination task, whereas that of control sighted subjects was not. This finding suggests that the activation of the visual cortex of the blind during performance of a tactile discrimination task may be due to sensory deafferentation, wherein a competitive imbalance favors the tactile over the visual modality.
Binary and ternary textures containing higher-order spatial correlations.	A quantitative method is presented for creating a large number of classes of binary (256) and ternary (7.62 x 10(12)) textures. The binary textures are presented as black and white (contrasts -1 and 1). The ternary textures have three levels: black, white and the mean luminance gray (contrasts -1, 0 and 1). The ternary patterns in particular display a wide variety of properties, including depth cues from disparity and lighting. Given the very large number of ternary patterns, we present guidelines and analytical methods for selecting sets of textures with particular image qualities and/or nonlinear relationships between pixels. The second- and third-order correlation functions of several thousand examples were examined to reveal patterns that are functionally isotrigon with other textures and or with uniformly distributed noise patterns.
A laminar cortical model for 3D perception of slanted and curved surfaces and of 2D images: development, attention, and bistability.	A model of laminar visual cortical dynamics proposes how 3D boundary and surface representations arise from viewing slanted and curved 3D objects and 2D images. The 3D boundary representations emerge from non-classical receptive field interactions within intracortical and intercortical feedback circuits. Such non-classical interactions within cortical areas V1 and V2 contextually disambiguate classical receptive field responses to ambiguous visual cues using cells that are sensitive to colinear contours, angles, and disparity gradients. Remarkably, these cell types can all be explained as variants of a unified perceptual grouping circuit whose most familiar example is a 2D colinear bipole cell. Model simulations show how this circuit can develop cell selectivity to colinear contours and angles, how slanted surfaces can activate 3D boundary representations that are sensitive to angles and disparity gradients, how 3D filling-in occurs across slanted surfaces, how a 2D Necker cube image can be represented in 3D, and how bistable 3D Necker cube percepts occur. The model also explains data about slant aftereffects and 3D neon color spreading. It shows how chemical transmitters that habituate, or depress, in an activity-dependent way can help to control development and also to trigger bistable 3D percepts and slant aftereffects. Attention can influence which of these percepts is perceived by propagating selectively along object boundaries.
Neural dynamics and the fundamental mechanisms of event-related brain potentials.	Event-related potentials (ERPs) provide a critical link between the hemodynamic response, as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging, and the dynamics of the underlying neuronal activity. Single-trial ERP recordings capture the oscillatory activity that are hypothesized to underlie both communication between brain regions and amplified processing of behaviorally relevant stimuli. However, precise interpretations of ERPs are precluded by uncertainty about their neural mechanisms. One influential theory holds that averaged sensory ERPs are generated by partial phase resetting of ongoing electroencephalographic oscillations, while another states that ERPs result from stimulus-evoked neural responses. We formulated critical predictions of each theory and tested these using direct, intracortical analyses of neural activity in monkeys. Our findings support a predominant role for stimulus-evoked activity in sensory ERP generation, and they outline both logic and methodology necessary for differentiating evoked and phase resetting contributions to cognitive and motor ERPs in future studies.
Enhanced temporal non-linearities in human object-related occipito-temporal cortex.	To what extent does neural activation in human visual cortex follow the temporal dynamics of the optical retinal stimulus? Specifically, to what extent does stimulus evoked neural activation persist after stimulus termination? In the present study, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to explore the resulting temporal non-linearities across the entire constellation of human visual areas. Gray-scale images of animals, houses and faces were presented at two different presentation rates - 1 and 4 Hz - and the fMRI signal was analyzed in retinotopic and in high order occipito-temporal visual areas. In early visual areas and the motion sensitive area MT/V5, a fourfold increase in stimulus presentation rate evoked a twofold increase in signal amplitude. However, in high order visual areas, signal amplitude increased only by 25%. A control experiment ruled out the possibility that this difference was due to signal saturation ('ceiling') effects. A likely explanation for the stronger non-linearities in occipito-temporal cortex is a persistent neuronal activation that continues well after stimulus termination in the 1 Hz condition. These persistent activations might serve as a short term (iconic) memory mechanism for preserving a trace of the stimulus even in its absence and for future integration with temporally correlated stimuli. Two alternative models of persistence (inhibitory and excitatory) are proposed to explain the data.
Time course of information about motion direction in visual area MT of macaque monkeys.	We used the responses of neurons in extrastriate visual area MT to determine how well neural noise can be reduced by averaging the responses of neurons across time. For individual MT neurons, we calculated the time course of Shannon information about motion direction from sustained motion at constant velocities. Stimuli were random dot patterns moving at the preferred speed of the cell for 256 msec, in a direction chosen randomly with 15 degrees increments. Information about motion direction calculated from cumulative spike count rose rapidly from the onset of the neural response and then saturated, reaching 80% of maximum information in the first 100 msec. Most of the early saturation of information could be attributed to correlated fluctuations in the spike counts of individual neurons on time scales in excess of 100 msec. Thus, temporal correlations limit the benefits of averaging across time, much as correlations among the responses of different neurons limit the benefits of averaging across large populations. Although information about direction was available quickly from MT neurons, the direction discrimination by individual MT neurons was poor, with mean thresholds above 30 degrees in most neurons. We conclude that almost all available directional information could be extracted from the first few spikes of the response of the neuron, on a time scale comparable with the initiation of smooth pursuit eye movements. However, neural responses still must be pooled across the population in MT to account for the direction discrimination of the pursuit behavior.
Integration of Contour and Terminator Signals in Visual Area MT of Alert Macaque.	The integration of visual information is a critical task that is performed by neurons in the extrastriate cortex of the primate brain. For motion signals, integration is complicated by the geometry of the visual world, which renders some velocity measurements ambiguous and others incorrect. The ambiguity arises because neurons in the early stages of visual processing have small receptive fields, which can only recover the component of motion perpendicular to the orientation of a contour (the aperture problem). Unambiguous motion signals are located at end points and corners, which are referred to as terminators. However, when an object moves behind an occluding surface, motion measurements made at the terminators formed by the intersection of the object and the occluder are generally not consistent with the direction of object motion. To study how cortical neurons integrate these different motion cues, we used variations on the classic "barber pole" stimulus and measured the responses of neurons in the middle temporal area (MT or V5) of extrastriate cortex of alert macaque monkeys. Our results show that MT neurons are more strongly influenced by the unambiguous motion signals generated by terminators than to the ambiguous signals generated by contours. Furthermore, these neurons respond better to terminators that are intrinsic to a moving object than to those that are accidents of occlusion. V1 neurons show similar response patterns to local cues (contours and terminators), but for large stimuli, they do not reflect the global motion direction computed by MT neurons. These observations are consistent with psychophysical findings that show that our perception of moving objects often depends on the motion of terminators.
Representation of angles embedded within contour stimuli in area V2 of macaque monkeys.	Angles and junctions embedded within contours are important features to represent the shape of objects. To study the neuronal basis to extract these features, we conducted extracellular recordings while two macaque monkeys performed a fixation task. Angle stimuli were the combination of two straight half-lines larger than the size of the classical receptive fields (CRFs). Each line was drawn from the center to outside the CRFs in 1 of 12 directions, so that the stimuli passed through the CRFs and formed angles at the center of the CRFs. Of 114 neurons recorded from the superficial layer of area V2, 91 neurons showed selective responses to these angle stimuli. Of these, 41 neurons (36.0%) showed selective responses to wide angles between 60 degrees and 150 degrees that were distinct from responses to straight lines or sharp angles (30 degrees ). Responses were highly selective to a particular angle in approximately one-fourth of neurons. When we tested the selectivity of the same neurons to individual half-lines, the preferred direction was more or less consistent with one or two components of the optimal angle stimuli. These results suggest that the selectivity of the neurons depends on both the combination of two components and the responses to individual components. Angle-selective V2 neurons are unlikely to be specific angle detectors, because the magnitude of their responses to the optimal angle was indistinguishable from that to the optimal half-lines. We suggest that the extraction of information of angles embedded within contour stimuli may start in area V2.
Learning strengthens the response of primary visual cortex to simple patterns.	Training can significantly improve performance on even the most basic visual tasks, such as detecting a faint patch of light or determining the orientation of a bar (for reviews, see ). The neural mechanisms of visual learning, however, remain controversial. One simple way to improve behavior is to increase the overall neural response to the trained stimulus by increasing the number or gain of responsive neurons. Learning of this type has been observed in other sensory modalities, where training increases the number of receptive fields that cover the trained stimulus. Here, we show that visual learning can selectively increase the overall response to trained stimuli in primary visual cortex (V1). We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to measure neural signals before and after one month of practice at detecting very low-contrast oriented patterns. Training increased V1 response for practiced orientations relative to control orientations by an average of 39%, and the magnitude of the change in V1 correlated moderately well with the magnitude of changes in detection performance. The elevation of V1 activity by training likely results from an increase in the number of neurons responding to the trained stimulus or an increase in response gain.
Visual awareness: the eye fields have it?	Whether a stimulus is perceived is suggested to depend on the amount or strength of the sensory signal. This idea has received support from a recent study which found that, when neural activation in the frontal eye fields was boosted by magnetic stimulation, the observers' detection performance on a visual task improved.
Comparison of TCA and ICA techniques in fMRI data processing.	To make a quantitative comparison of temporal cluster analysis (TCA) and independent component analysis (ICA) techniques in detecting brain activation by using simulated data and in vivo event-related functional MRI (fMRI) experiments.
The spatial distribution of visual attention.	We use a novel search task to investigate the spatial distribution of visual attention, developing a general model from the data. Observers distribute attention to locations defined by stripes with a high penalty for attention to intervening areas. Attended areas are defined by a square-wave grating. A target is in one of the even stripes, and ten false targets (identical to the real target) are in the odd stripes; the observer must attend the even stripes and strongly ignore the odd, reporting the location of the target. As the spatial frequency of the grating increases, performance declines. Variations on this task inform a model that incorporates stimulus input, a "low pass" attentional modulation transfer function, and an acuity function to produce a strength map from which the location with the highest strength is selected. A feature-strength map that adds to the attention map enables the model to predict the results of attention-cued conjunction search experiments, and internal noise enables it to predict the outcome of double-pass experiments and of variations in the number of false targets. The model predicted performance on a trial-by-trial basis for three observers, accounting for approximately 70% of the trials. Actual trial-to-trial variation for an observer, using the double-pass method, is about 76%. For any requested distribution of spatial attention, this general model makes a prediction of the actually achieved distribution.
Is the fusiform face area specialized for faces, individuation, or expert individuation?	Several brain imaging studies have identified a region of fusiform gyrus (FG) that responds more strongly to faces than common objects. The precise functional role of this fusiform face area (FFA) is, however, a matter of dispute. We sought to distinguish among three hypotheses concerning FFA function: face specificity, individuation, and expert individuation. According to the face-specificity hypothesis, the FFA is specialized for face processing. Alternatively, the FFA may be specialized for individuating visually similar items within a category (the individuation hypothesis) or for individuating within categories with which a person has expertise (the expert-individuation hypothesis). Our results from two experiments supported the face-specificity hypothesis. Greater FFA activation to faces than Lepidoptera, another homogeneous object class, occurred during both free viewing and individuation, with similar FFA activation to Lepidoptera and common objects (Experiment 1). Furthermore, during individuation of Lepidoptera, 83% of activated FG voxels were outside the face FG region and only 15% of face FG voxels were activated. This pattern of results suggests that distinct areas may individuate faces and Lepidoptera. In Experiment 2, we tested Lepidoptera experts using the same experimental design. Again, the results supported the face-specificity hypothesis. Activation to faces in the FFA was greater than to both Lepidoptera and objects with little overlap between FG areas activated by faces and Lepidoptera. Our results suggest that distinct populations of neurons in human FG may be tuned to the features needed to individuate the members of different object classes, as has been reported in monkey inferotemporal cortex, and that the FFA contains neurons tuned for individuating faces.
From orthography to phonetics: ERP measures of grapheme-to-phoneme conversion mechanisms in reading.	Neuroimaging has provided evidence that the first stages of visual word recognition activate a visual word-form center localized in the left extrastriate cortex (fusiform gyrus). Accordingly, neurological cases of patients suffering from pure alexia reported the left posterior occipital lobe as the possible locus of orthographic analysis. There is less agreement in the literature about which brain structures are involved in the subsequent stages of word processing and, in particular, their time course of activation. Functional magnetic resonance imaging and magnetic source imaging studies recently reported data that could indicate a dual route model of reading. These findings are particularly relevant to studies on the functional deficits associated with phonological and surface dyslexia. There is evidence for the existence of two different brain mechanisms supporting phonological processing in visual word recognition: one mechanism subserving "assembled phonology" for reading letter strings and another one subserving "addressed phonology" for reading meaningful words. However, available knowledge on the time course and neural locus of grapheme-to-phoneme conversion mechanisms in reading is still inadequate. In this study, we compared processing of meaningful and meaningless Italian words in a task requiring a phonemic/phonetic decision task. Stimuli were 1152 different orthographic stimuli presented in the central visual field. Half the stimuli were Italian words (with a high or low frequency of occurrence), the other half were meaningless strings of letters (legal pseudowords and letter strings). Event-related potentials were recorded from 28 scalp sites in 10 Italian university students. The task consisted of deciding about the presence/absence of a given "phone" in the hypothetical enunciation of word read: for example, "Is there a /k/ in cheese?". Results showed that lexical frequency and orthographical regularity affected linguistic processing within 150 msec poststimulus. Indeed, the amplitude of a centroparietal P150 varied as a function of stimulus type, being larger in response to high-frequency words than to low-frequency ones and to words and pseudowords than to letter strings. This component might index visual categorization processes and recognition of familiar objects, being highly sensitive to orthographic regularity and "ill-formedness" of words. The amplitude of the P150 was the same in response to well-formed meaningless and to meaningful words, when these latter had a low lexical frequency. This might indicate that highly familiar words are recognized as meaningful unitary visual objects at very early stages of processing, through a visual route to an orthographic input lexicon. Moreover, the amplitude of the negativity recorded between 250 and 350 msec showed an anteroposterior topographic dissociation for access to the phonemic representation of well- or ill-formed strings of characters. Brain responses were larger over the left occipito-temporal regions during reading of words and pseudowords and over the left frontal regions during reading of letter strings.
The attentional 'spotlight's' penumbra: center-surround modulation in striate cortex.	By enhancing neural activity in respective retinotopic cortical representations attention increases the efficiency with which visual information at a selected location is processed. Behavioral data also suggest that information from the vicinity of the attended region is actively suppressed. In search for a physiological correlate of this 'spotlight's penumbra' we assessed neural responses in retinotopic representations of an attended location and of locations at different distances to it. Relative to passive viewing we found suppressed striate activity for the nearby but not for the far locations. This attention-driven center-surround distribution of neural activity may enhance the contrast between attended and non-attended objects. We relate the different behavior of extrastriate areas to their lower spatial resolution, i.e. larger receptive fields.
No correlation between moving phosphene and motor thresholds: a transcranial magnetic stimulation study.	The aim of this study was to investigate the temporal stability of moving phosphenes and to assess whether moving phosphene thresholds (PTs) correlate with motor thresholds (MTs). Small moving sensations, so-called moving phosphenes, are perceived when V5, an area important for visual motion analysis, is stimulated by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). However, it is still a matter of debate if V5 phosphenes are stable sensations across measurements and if they are a reasonable index of the cortical excitability of V5. Currently, MT is more commonly used as an index of global cortical excitability. However, previous studies have indicated that stationary PTs are suitable alternatives when the primary visual cortex is stimulated by TMS. Using paired-pulse TMS, stationary and moving PTs and applying single pulse TMS, MTs were measured in 11 subjects. PTs were retested in nine subjects 5-7 days later. Stationary and moving PTs were stable within subjects across the two sessions and showed a high inter-correlation. Conversely, PTs and MTs did not correlate. Our results are in agreement with previous studies showing that excitatory measurements of one specific cortex cannot be generalized to the excitability of the whole cortex. Thus, we propose specific measures for cortices of interest: PT for visual experiments and MT for motor experiments.
Sensory ERPs predict differences in working memory span and fluid intelligence.	The way our brain reacts to sensory stimulation may provide important clues about higher-level cognitive function and its operation. Here we show that short-latency (< 200 ms) sensory cortical responses elicited by visual and auditory stimuli differ dramatically between subjects with high and low working-memory span, as well as between subjects scoring high and low on a fluid intelligence test. Our findings also suggest that this link between sensory responses and complex cognitive tasks is modality specific (visual sensory measures correlate with visuo-spatial tasks whereas auditory sensory measures correlate with verbal tasks). We interpret these findings as indicating that people's effectiveness in controlling attention and gating sensory information is a critical determinant of individual differences in complex cognitive abilities.
Induced visual illusions and gamma oscillations in human primary visual cortex.	Using magnetoencephalography, we studied the spatiotemporal properties of cortical responses in terms of event-related synchronization and event-related desynchronization to a range of stripe patterns in subjects with no neurological disorders. These stripes are known for their tendency to induce a range of abnormal sensations, such as illusions, nausea, dizziness, headache and attacks of pattern-sensitive epilepsy. The optimal stimulus must have specific physical properties, and maximum abnormalities occur at specific spatial frequency and contrast. Despite individual differences in the severity of discomfort experienced, psychophysical studies have shown that most observers experience some degree of visual anomaly on viewing such patterns. In a separate experiment, subjects reported the incidence of illusions and discomfort to each pattern. We found maximal cortical power in the gamma range (30-60 Hz) confined to the region of the primary visual cortex in response to patterns of 2-4 cycles per degree, peaking at 3 cycles per degree. This coincides with the peak of mean illusions and discomfort, also maximal for patterns of 2-4 cycles per degree. We show that gamma band activity in V1 is a narrow band function of spatial frequency. We hypothesize that the intrinsic properties of gamma oscillations may underlie visual discomfort and play a role in the onset of seizures.
Visual cortex: the continuing puzzle of area V2.	Surprisingly little is known about the role of V2 in visual processing. A recent study found that the responses of V2 neurons to pairs of angled lines could be predicted from their responses to the individual line components. A simple analysis shows how these neurons may simply sum the responses from one or more orientation selective V1 neurons.
Microstimulation of V1 delays the execution of visually guided saccades.	Electrical stimulation delivered to V1 concurrently with the presentation of a visual target interferes with both the selection and the detection of targets positioned in the receptive field of the stimulated neurons. In the present study, we examined the temporal course of this effect by delivering electrical stimulation to V1 of rhesus monkeys at various times before the appearance of a visual target. Each trial was initiated by the appearance of a fixation spot that, once acquired, was followed by the presentation of a visual target in the receptive field of the stimulated neurons. A monkey was reward after making a saccadic eye movement to the target. A delay in saccade generation was obtained when stimulation was delivered while an animal maintained fixation on the fixation spot. No delay occurred when the visual target was placed outside the receptive field of the stimulated neurons. The best parameters for inducing the saccadic delay were: (i). anode-first pulses (as opposed to cathode-first pulses) and (ii). train durations greater than 40 ms and frequencies greater than 100 Hz. The lowest current threshold for producing a saccadic delay occurred at 1.5 mm below the top of superficial V1. The chronaxies of the directly stimulated elements mediating the delay ranged from 0.13 to 0.24 ms. These values overlap with those that have been described for phosphene induction in human V1. We discuss how the elements mediating the saccadic delay might interrupt a visual signal as it passes along the geniculostriate pathway.
Lateral visual field stimulation reveals extrastriate cortical activation in the contralateral hemisphere: an fMRI study.	We examined whether lateral visual field stimulation (LSTM) could activate contralateral extrastriate cortical areas as predicted by a large experimental literature. We asked seven unscreened, control subjects to wear glasses designed to allow vision out of either the left (LVF) or right lateral visual field (RVF) depending upon which side the subject looked toward. Each subject participated in a block design functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study with alternating 30-s epochs in which he was asked to look to one side and then the other for a total of five epochs. On each side of the bore of the scanner, we taped a photograph for the subject to view in the LVF and RVF. The data were analyzed with SPM99 using a fixed effect, box-car design with contrasts for the LVF and the RVF conditions. Both LVF and RVF conditions produced the strongest fMRI activation in the contralateral occipitotemporal and posterior parietal areas as well as the contralateral dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. LSTM appears to increase contralateral fMRI activation in striate and extrastriate cortical areas as predicted by earlier studies reporting differential cognitive and/or emotional effects from unilateral sensory or motor stimulation.
Neuronal activity in macaque SEF and ACC during performance of tasks involving conflict.	It has been suggested on the basis of previous studies involving functional MRI (fMRI) and single-neuron recording that neurons of the supplementary eye field (SEF) and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) monitor conflict. To test this idea, we carried out microelectrode recording in monkeys performing a color-conditional eye movement task in which red and green cues instructed leftward and rightward saccades, respectively. In a variant inducing conflict by spatial incompatibility, the cue was presented either at the location of the target (no conflict) or opposite the location of the target (conflict). In a variant inducing conflict by reversal, the foveal cue either remained one color (no conflict) or reversed color after 100 ms (conflict), with the monkey required to follow the instruction conveyed by the second color. In both tasks, conflict was evident in behavioral measures (reduced percent correct and slowed reaction time) and in physiological measures (reduced strength of directional activity among direction-selective neurons). In the SEF, there was a tendency for neurons to fire more strongly on trials involving conflict, but this effect took the form of modulation of task-related activity among direction-selective neurons, not of a pure conflict-monitoring signal. In the ACC, there was no conflict-related enhancement. These results are incompatible with the idea that the SEF and ACC contain populations of neurons specialized for monitoring conflict.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation in the visual system. I. The psychophysics of visual suppression.	When applied over the occipital pole, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) disrupts visual perception and induces phosphenes. Both the underlying mechanisms and the brain structures involved are still unclear. The first part of the study characterizes the suppressive effect of TMS by psychophysical methods. Luminance increment thresholds for orientation discrimination were determined in four subjects using an adaptive staircase procedure. Coil position was controlled with a stereotactic positioning device. Threshold values were modulated by TMS, reaching a maximum effect at a stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) of approx. 100 ms after visual target presentation. Stronger TMS pulses increased the maximum threshold while decreasing the SOA producing the maximum effect. Slopes of the psychometric function were flattened with TMS masking by a factor of 2, compared to control experiments in the absence of TMS. No change in steepness was observed in experiments using a light flash as the mask instead of TMS. Together with the finding that at higher TMS intensities, threshold elevation occurs even with shorter SOAs, this suggests lasting inhibitory processes as masking mechanisms, contradicting the assumption that the phosphene as excitatory equivalent causes masking. In the companion contribution to this one we present perimetric measurements and phosphene forms as a function of the stimulation site in the brain and discuss the putative generator structures.
Spatial overlap of ON and OFF subregions and its relation to response modulation ratio in macaque primary visual cortex.	We studied the spatial overlap of on and off subregions in macaque primary visual cortex and its relation to the response modulation ratio (the F1/F0 ratio). Spatial maps of on and off subregions were obtained by reverse correlation with a dynamic noise pattern of bright and dark spots. Two spatial maps, on and off, were produced by cross-correlating the spike train with the location of bright and dark spots in the stimulus respectively. Several measures were used to assess the degree of overlap between subregions. In a subset of neurons, we also computed the F1/F0 ratio in response to drifting sinusoidal gratings. Significant correlations were found among all the overlap measures and the F1/F0 ratio. Most overlap indices considered, and the F1/F0 measure, had bimodal distributions. In contrast, the distance between on and off subregions normalized by their size was unimodal. Surprisingly, a simple model that additively combines on and off subregions with spatial separations drawn from a unimodal distribution, can readily explain the data. These analyses clarify the relationship between subregion overlap and the F1/F0 ratio in macaque primary visual cortex, and a simple model provides a parsimonious explanation for the co-existence of bimodal distributions of overlap indices and a unimodal distribution of the normalized distance.
Direct stimulation of optic nerve by electrodes implanted in optic disc of rabbit eyes.	To determine whether wire microelectrodes implanted in the optic disc can be used to elicit cortical potentials.
Slow adaptation in fast-spiking neurons of visual cortex.	Fast-spiking (FS) neurons are a class of inhibitory interneurons classically characterized as having short-duration action potentials (<0.5 ms at half height) and displaying little to no spike-frequency adaptation during short (<500 ms) depolarizing current pulses. As a consequence, the resulting injected current intensity versus firing frequency relationship is typically steep, and they can achieve firing frequencies of < or =1 kHz. Here we have investigated the properties of FS neurons discharges on a longer time scale. Twenty second discharges were induced in electrophysiologically identified FS neurons by means of current injection either with sinusoidal current or with square pulses. We found that virtually all FS neurons recorded in cortical slices do show spike-frequency adaptation but with a slow time course (tau = 2-19 s). This slow time course has precluded the observation of this property in previous studies that used shorter pulses. Contrary to the classical view of FS neurons functional properties, long-duration discharges were followed by a slow afterhyperpolarization lasting < or =23 s. During this postadaptation period, the excitability of the neurons was decreased on average for 16.7 +/- 6.8 s, therefore rendering the cell less responsive to subsequent afferent inputs. Slow adaptation is also reported here for FS neurons recorded in vivo. This longer time scale of adaptation in FS neurons may be critical for balancing excitation and inhibition as well as for the understanding of cortical network computations.
The organization of orientation and spatial frequency in primary visual cortex.	Many studies have demonstrated that the primary visual cortex contains multiple functional maps of visual properties (e.g., ocular dominance, orientation preference, and spatial-frequency preference), but as yet no consistent picture has emerged as to how these maps are related to one another. Three divergent, prior optical-imaging studies of spatial frequency are reanalyzed and critiqued in this article. Evidence is presented that a nonstimulus-specific response biased the interpretation of results in previous studies. In addition to reexamining four prior cat experiments, we carried out one new experiment. Through the use of different methods and a careful removal of the nonspecific response, we are led in all instances to a unique view of cortical organization for spatial-frequency preference. In particular, we find little apparent evidence for a columnar organization for spatial frequency. The response recorded by each image pixel may be viewed as arising from an admixture of low- and high-spatial-frequency populations. For most pixels, the ratio of these populations is 1:1.
Roles of visual experience and intrinsic mechanism in the activity-dependent self-organization of orientation maps: theory and experiment.	It is widely accepted that functional maps in the mammalian visual cortex such as ocular dominance columns and orientation columns are formed depending on neural activity. There is still, however, controversy on how much visual experience contributes to the map formation during development. In the present study, we address this issue from mathematical modeling and experimental investigation. Using a model of activity-dependent self-organization of geniculo-cortical afferent inputs, we showed that spontaneous activity in the LGN can produce orientation maps, while the exposure to drifting gratings results in sharply segregated orientation maps as observed in cat visual cortex. The restricted exposure to a single orientation of the grating led to the over-representation of the exposed orientation, which was moderated by the contribution of learning based on the spontaneous activity. These theoretical results were confirmed by intrinsic optical recordings from area 18 of kittens reared under various visual conditions.
Exploring structure-function relationships in neocortical networks by means of neuromodelling techniques.	Determining the neuronal architecture underlying certain visual functions is of fundamental importance for understanding how sensory processing is implemented in the brain. The wealth of anatomical, physiological and biophysical data that is being currently acquired on the neocortex could be used to constrain its functional architecture. However, given the intrinsic complexity and diversity of the data, it is difficult to provide a comprehensive framework to use these data in order to characterize structure-function relationships. Here, we discuss the use of biophysically plausible models of dynamics of neuronal networks, constructed to reflect the known properties of neocortical connectivity and modularity, as a tool to bring together anatomy and physiology. We illustrate the utility and rationale of the neuro-dynamics modelling approach by considering recent studies on the relationship between functional structure of the visual cortex and its response timing, and on the cellular and network origin of neuronal oscillations in the gamma frequency range. We also critically discuss how an interaction between theory and experiments could help this approach to become directly relevant for clinical applications.
Sleep EEG dynamics in rat barrel cortex associated with sensory deprivation.	Sleep is involved in the development and maintenance of neural networks. We investigated how somatosensory deprivation affects EEG dynamics of adult rats during sleep, which might be a result of changes in neural organization. Rats' whiskers were clipped unilaterally daily and the resulting changes in the balance of EEG spectral powers between the intact and sensory deprived barrel cortices were recorded for a month. Both delta and theta band spectral powers in the deprived cortex initially decreased in terms of their ratio to the intact cortex. Subsequently, the ratio was restored to control levels. This non-monotonic change in EEG activity might reflect the re-organization process of the cortical circuit.
The neural mechanisms for minimizing cross-modal distraction.	The neural circuitry that increases attention to goal-relevant stimuli when we are in danger of becoming distracted is a matter of active debate. To address several long-standing controversies, we asked participants to identify a letter presented either visually or auditorily while we varied the amount of cross-modal distraction from an irrelevant letter in the opposite modality. Functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed three novel results. First, activity in sensory cortices that processed the relevant letter increased as the irrelevant letter became more distracting, consistent with a selective increase of attention to the relevant letter. In line with this view, an across-subjects correlation indicated that the larger the increase of activity in sensory cortices that processed the relevant letter, the less behavioral interference there was from the irrelevant letter. Second, regions of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) involved in orienting attention to the relevant letter also participated in increasing attention to the relevant letter when conflicting stimuli were present. Third, we observed a novel pattern of regional specialization within the cognitive division of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) for focusing attention on the relevant letter (dorsal ACC) versus detecting conflict from the irrelevant letter (rostral ACC). These findings indicate novel roles for sensory cortices, the DLPFC, and the ACC in increasing attention to goal-relevant stimulus representations when distracting stimuli conflict with behavioral objectives. Furthermore, they potentially resolve a long-standing controversy regarding the key contribution of the ACC to cognitive control.
Subretinal implantation and testing of polyimide film electrodes in cats.	Progress in the field of microelectronics has led to the development of visual prostheses for the treatment of blinding diseases. One concept under investigation is an electronic subretinal prosthesis to replace the function of lost photoreceptors in degenerative diseases, such as retinitis pigmentosa.
How much feedback from visual cortex to lateral geniculate nucleus in cat: a perspective.	Corticothalamic feedback is believed to play an important role in selectively regulating the flow of sensory information from thalamus to cortex. But despite its importance, the size and nature of corticothalamic pathway connectivity is not fully understood. In light of recent empirical data, the aim of this paper was to quantify the contribution of area 17 axon connectivity to the synaptic organization of A-laminae in dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) in cat, the best studied corticothalamic pathway. Numerical constraints indicate that most corticogeniculate synapses are not formed with inhibitory interneurons. However, the main finding is that there was an order of magnitude difference between estimates of the mean number of cortical synapses per A-laminae neuron based on individual corticogeniculate axon data (12,000-16,000 cortical synapses per cell) than that previously derived from partial reconstructions of the synaptic input to two physiologically identified relay cells (1200-1500 cortical synapses per cell). In an attempt to reconcile these different estimates, parameter variation and comparative analyses suggest that previous work may have overestimated the density of corticogeniculate efferent neurons and underestimated the total number of synapses per geniculate neuron. But as this analysis did not include area 18 corticogeniculate axons innervating A-laminae, the discrepancy between different estimates may be greater and require further explanation. Thus, the analysis presented here suggests geniculate neurons receive on average a greater number of cortical synapses per cell but from far fewer corticogeniculate axons than previously thought.
Traveling waves of activity in primary visual cortex during binocular rivalry.	When the two eyes view large, dissimilar patterns that induce binocular rivalry, alternating waves of visibility are experienced as one pattern sweeps the other out of conscious awareness. Here we combine psychophysics with functional magnetic resonance imaging to show tight linkage between dynamics of perceptual waves during rivalry and neural events in human primary visual cortex (V1).
Vision: in the brain of the beholder.	It is commonly thought that neural activity in the visual cortex reflects retinal input. Recent studies, however, suggest that patterns of cortical activity are mostly intrinsically generated, and that visual input exerts but a modulatory influence.
Magnetic stimulation of extrastriate body area impairs visual processing of nonfacial body parts.	Functional magnetic resonance imaging indicates that observation of the human body induces a selective activation of a lateral occipitotemporal cortical area called extrastriate body area (EBA). This area is responsive to static and moving images of the human body and parts of it, but it is insensitive to faces and stimulus categories unrelated to the human body. With event-related repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, we tested the possible causal relation between neural activity in EBA and visual processing of body-related, nonfacial stimuli. Facial and noncorporeal stimuli were used as a control. Interference with neural activity in EBA induced a clear impairment, consisting of a significant increase in discriminative reaction time, in the visual processing of body parts. The effect was selective for stimulus type, because it affected responses to nonfacial body stimuli but not to noncorporeal and facial stimuli, and for locus of stimulation, because the effect from the interfering stimulation of EBA was absent during a corresponding stimulation of primary visual cortex. The results provide strong evidence that neural activity in EBA is not only correlated with but also causally involved in the visual processing of the human body and its parts, except the face.
Electrical stimulation with a needle-type electrode inserted into the optic nerve in rabbit eyes.	To investigate whether electrical stimulation of the optic nerve can elicit an electrical evoked potential (EEP) in rabbits and to determine whether such stimulation is a useful approach for the placement of a visual prosthesis.
Effects of voxel size on detection of lateral geniculate nucleus activation in functional magnetic resonance imaging.	To study the effect of voxel size on the detection of lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) activation during visual stimulation using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) at 1.5 T.
Using visual noise to characterize amblyopic letter identification.	Amblyopia is a much-studied but poorly understood developmental visual disorder that reduces acuity, profoundly reducing contrast sensitivity for small targets. Here we use visual noise to probe the letter identification process and characterize its impairment by amblyopia. We apply five levels of analysis - threshold, threshold in noise, equivalent noise, optical MTF, and noise modeling - to obtain a two-factor model of the amblyopic deficit: substantially reduced efficiency for small letters and negligibly increased cortical noise. Cortical noise, expressed as an equivalent input noise, varies among amblyopes but is roughly 1.4x normal, as though only 1/1.4 the normal number of cortical spikes are devoted to the amblyopic eye. This raises threshold contrast for large letters by a factor of radical1.4 = 1.2x, a negligible effect. All 16 amblyopic observers showed near-normal efficiency for large letters (> 4x acuity) and greatly reduced efficiency for small letters: 1/4 normal at 2x acuity and approaching 1/16 normal at acuity. Finding that the acuity loss represents a loss of efficiency rules out all models of amblyopia except those that predict the same sensitivity loss on blank and noisy backgrounds. One such model is the last-channel hypothesis, which supposes that the highest-spatial-frequency channels are missing, leaving the remaining highest-frequency channel struggling to identify the smallest letters. However, this hypothesis is rejected by critical band masking of letter identification, which shows that the channels used by the amblyopic eye have normal tuning for even the smallest letters. Finally, based on these results, we introduce a new "Dual Acuity" chart that promises to be a quick diagnostic test for amblyopia.
Population coding of orientation in the visual cortex of alert cats--an information theoretic analysis.	We studied the encoding of stimulus orientation in the visual cortex of alert animals using information theory methods. Based on a labeled-line code, the encoding of orientation was mostly synergistic and only few pairs coded redundant. The synergy contributed about 20% of the information and was strongest for sites with distinct tuning curves. A recently proposed decomposition of synergy revealed that redundancy introduced by common tuning preferences is more than just compensated by noise correlations which mostly contributed synergistically. Based on a pooled response code, the contribution of noise correlations diminished resulting in a severe information loss. Thus, to operate economically, cortical neurons should either employ a labeled-line code or, if using pooled responses, be highly selective in choosing afferents.
Continuum limit of discrete neuronal structures: is cortical tissue an "excitable" medium?	As a simple model of cortical tissue, we study a locally connected network of spiking neurons in the continuum limit of space and time. This is to be contrasted with the usual numerical simulations that discretize both of them. Refractoriness, noise, axonal delays, and the time course of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials have been taken into account explicitly. We pose, and answer, the question of whether the continuum limit presents a full description of scenarios found numerically (the answer is no, not quite). In other words, can the numerics be reduced to a continuum description of a well-known type? As a corollary, we derive some classical results such as those of Wilson and Cowan (1973), thus indicating under what conditions they are valid. Furthermore, we show that spatially discrete objects may be fragile due to noise arising from the stochasticity of the individual neurons, whereas they are not once the continuum limit has been taken. This, then, resolves the above question. Finally, we indicate how one can directly incorporate orientation preference of the neurons.
An explanation of contextual modulation by short-range isotropic connections and orientation map geometry in the primary visual cortex.	Recent experimental studies on the primary visual cortex have revealed complicated nonclassical neuronal activities. Contextual modulation on orientation-contrast is one typical example of nonclassical neuronal behavior. This modulation by surrounding stimuli in a nonclassical receptive field is mainly thought to be mediated by short- and long-range horizontal connections within the primary visual cortex. Short-range connections are circularly symmetrical and relatively independent of orientation preferences, while long-range connections are patchy, asymmetrical, and orientation specific. Although this modulation can be explained by long-range specific connections qualitatively, recent studies suggest that long-range connections alone may be insufficient with respect to the balance between two types of connections. Here, in order to clarify the role of short-range connections in the process of contextual modulation, we propose a model of the primary visual cortex with isotropic short-range connections and a geometric orientation map. Computational simulations using the model have demonstrated that contextual modulation can be explained by short-range connections alone. This is due to the interaction between the spatial periodicity of orientation domains and the excitatory-inhibitory regions arising from the propagation of activities.
Is sparse and distributed the coding goal of simple cells?	The question of why the receptive fields of simple cells in the primary visual cortex are Gabor-like is a crucial one in vision research. Many research efforts (Olshausen and Field 1996, 1997; van Hateren and Ruderman 1998; van Hateren and van der Schaaf 1998) that yield a set of localized, oriented, and bandpass Gabor-like receptive fields believe that sparse and distributed is the coding goal of simple cells. This paper investigates a more general coding strategy that measures equally any departure from normality in the simple cells' responses. That is, we investigate the possibility that highly kurtotic response histograms may result if simple cells explicitly seek, not maximally kurtotic, but rather maximally non-Gaussian response histograms to natural images. It is found that, under this coding strategy, the simulations produce a majority of localized, oriented, bandpass (Gabor-like) receptive fields. Some receptive fields, however, are spatially distributed and show little oriented structure. Nearly all receptive fields, regardless of whether they are Gabor-like or non-Gabor-like, yield highly kurtotic response histograms to natural images. Thus, in seeking maximally non-Gaussian response histograms, receptive fields spontaneously yield highly kurtotic histograms. The presence in our ensemble of nonlocalized, nonoriented receptive fields may be due to the artificial requirement that receptive fields be orthonormal. We conclude that the high kurtoses observed in the response histograms of simple-cell receptive fields to natural images may reflect a property of natural images themselves rather than an explicit coding goal used to structure simple-cell receptive fields.
Functional reorganization of primary visual cortex induced by electrical stimulation in the cat.	Compared to the high degree of plasticity observed in a juvenile, mature sensory cortices have long been held to be immutable but, recently, researchers have suggested some plasticity persists in the mature cortex. Cortical reorganization has particular saliency to the development of a cortically based, sensory neuroprosthesis, which will chronically evoke activity through electrical stimulation. We have examined the nature and extent of the reorganization induced by electrical stimulation. We found the receptive field size and synaptic efficacy can be increased, particularly for neurons near the stimulation site. As the changes are minimal, these results are not expected to impact neuroprosthetic applications.
Directional inhibition: a new slant on an old question.	In this issue of Neuron, Priebe and Ferster describe the direction selectivity and spatiotemporal organization of excitatory and inhibitory inputs to direction-selective simple cells in cat visual cortex. Their most surprising finding is that inhibition shows the same preferred direction as excitation.
Direction selectivity of excitation and inhibition in simple cells of the cat primary visual cortex.	Direction selectivity in simple cells of primary visual cortex, defined from their spike responses, cannot be predicted using linear models. It has been suggested that the shunting inhibition evoked by visual stimulation is responsible for the nonlinear component of direction selectivity. Cortical inhibition would suppress a neuron's firing when stimuli move in the nonpreferred direction, but would allow responses to stimuli in the preferred direction. Models of direction selectivity based solely on input from the lateral geniculate nucleus, however, propose that the nonlinear response is caused by spike threshold. By extracting excitatory and inhibitory components of synaptic inputs from intracellular records obtained in vivo, we demonstrate that excitation and inhibition are tuned for the same direction, but differ in relative timing. Further, membrane potential responses combine in a linear fashion. Spike threshold, however, quantitatively accounts for the nonlinear component of direction selectivity, amplifying the direction selectivity of spike output relative to that of synaptic inputs.
Phase locking of single neuron activity to theta oscillations during working memory in monkey extrastriate visual cortex.	Working memory has been linked to elevated single neuron discharge in monkeys and to oscillatory changes in the human EEG, but the relation between these effects has remained largely unexplored. We addressed this question by measuring local field potentials and single unit activity simultaneously from multiple electrodes placed in extrastriate visual cortex while monkeys were performing a working memory task. We describe a significant enhancement in theta band energy during the delay period. Theta oscillations had a systematic effect on single neuron activity, with neurons emitting more action potentials near their preferred angle of each theta cycle. Sample-selective delay activity was enhanced if only action potentials emitted near the preferred theta angle were considered. Our results suggest that extrastriate visual cortex is involved in short-term maintenance of information and that theta oscillations provide a mechanism for structuring the recurrent interaction between neurons in different brain regions that underlie working memory.
The implications of foveal splitting for saccade planning in reading.	The human fovea and visual pathways are precisely split: information in one hemifield is initially projected to the contralateral visual cortex. This fundamental anatomical constraint on word recognition in reading has been largely ignored in eye movement research. We explore the consequences of this constraint through analyses of a large corpus of eye movement data, and demonstrate that aspects of saccade planning (target selection, initial landing position) are sensitive to both hemispheres, estimated uncertainty about the identity of the currently fixated word. We interpret these findings in terms of a hemispheric division of labour. We suggest that anatomical, visual and lexical factors all contribute to the decision of where to send the eyes next in reading.
Magnetic stimulation and the crossed-uncrossed difference (CUD) paradigm: selective effects in the ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres.	When a visual target is presented to one hemifield, manual responses made to the target using the ipsilateral hand (uncrossed responses) are faster than responses using the contralateral hand (crossed response), because there is no need for visuomotor information to be transferred between the hemispheres. This difference in response times is termed the crossed-uncrossed difference (CUD) and is a valuable means of estimating interhemispheric transfer time. We aimed to investigate the CUD by applying repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over the left and right occipital cortex during a lateralized target-detection task. Eleven neurologically healthy subjects, all right-handed, participated in the study. Relative to sham TMS we increased the CUD, by inhibiting the crossed latencies, but only when rTMS was applied to the hemisphere receiving visual information. These results replicate and extend previous findings and suggest the inhibitory rTMS effect under the crossed condition might be because the weak visual output is unable to activate the crossed pathway.
Saccades differentially modulate human LGN and V1 responses in the presence and absence of visual stimulation.	Saccades occur several times each second in normal human vision. The visual image moves across the retina at high velocity during a saccade, yet no blurring of the visual scene is perceived . Active suppression of visual input may account for this perceptual continuity, but the neural mechanisms underlying such saccadic suppression remain unclear. We used functional MRI to specifically examine responses in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and primary visual cortex (V1) during saccades. Activity in both V1 and LGN was strongly modulated by saccades. Furthermore, this modulation depended on whether visual stimulation was present or absent. In complete darkness, saccades led to reliable signal increases in V1 and LGN, whereas in the presence of visual stimulation, saccades led to suppression of visually evoked responses. These findings represent unequivocal evidence for saccadic suppression in human LGN and retinotopically defined V1 and are consistent with the earliest site of saccadic suppression lying at or before V1.
Cortical response to subjectively unconscious danger.	Cortical involvement in the evolution-favored automatic reaction to danger was studied. Electrical neural activity was recorded from 31 subjects, reporting fear of spiders, at 60 scalp locations. Visual stimuli containing spiders (negative elements) or, alternatively, nonnegative elements were presented to subjects, though they were unaware of their presence: a concurrent visual detection task using consciously perceived targets was administered. Spatial and temporal principal component analyses were employed to define and quantify, in a reliable manner, the main components of the neuroelectrical response to unconscious stimuli, and a source localization algorithm provided information on their neural origin. Results indicated that around 150 ms after stimulus onset, ventromedial prefrontal areas previously reported as responding rapidly to danger-related (conscious) stimuli were activated by unconsciously perceived spiders more markedly than by nonnegative unconscious stimuli. Subsequently, around 500 ms after stimulus onset, activation of the posterior cingulate and visual association cortices increased in this same direction. These data support previous results indicating that the ventromedial prefrontal cortex is involved in the top-down regulation of attention (through its capability to modulate the activity of posterior cortices in charge of visual processing) and that it automatically facilitates danger processing.
Neural correlates of conscious perception in the attentional blink.	If attending to a target in a rapid stream of visual stimuli within the next 400 ms or so, a second target in the stream is frequently not detected by an observer. This so-called attentional blink can provide a comparison of neural signals elicited by identical stimuli that, in one condition, reach conscious awareness and, in the other, fail to be selected for awareness. In the present study, using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), differences of neural activation were studied in an attentional blink experiment in order to identify brain regions putatively involved in controlling the access of information to consciousness. Subjects viewed a rapid stream of black letters in which the second target (T2) was either presented within or outside the attentional blink period, or not at all. We observed an increase in activation for detected as compared to missed T2 presented during the attentional blink in frontal and parietal cortices. In contrast, in occipitotemporal regions activation was increased for missed as compared to detected T2. Furthermore, in several frontal and parietal areas, missed targets were associated with increased activity if compared to the condition in which no second target was presented. Finally, a selective decrease in activation for detected T2 presented during the attentional blink was observed in areas associated with emotional and predominantly automatic processing. While activations in occipitotemporal regions might mainly reflect duration of attentive search, the frontoparietal areas seem to be involved in a highly distributed network controlling visual awareness.
Extraction of the average and differential dynamical response in stimulus-locked experimental data.	In optical imaging experiments of primary visual cortex, visual stimuli evoke a complicated dynamics. Typically, any stimulus with sufficient contrast evokes a response. Much of the response is the same regardless of which stimulus is presented. For instance, when oriented drifting gratings are presented to the visual system, over 90% of the response is the same from orientation to orientation. Small differences may be seen, however, between the responses to different orientations. A problem in the analysis of optical measurements of the response to stimulus in cortical tissue is the distinction of the 'global' or 'non-specific' response from the 'differential' or 'stimulus-specific' response. This problem arises whenever the signal of interest is the difference in response to various stimuli and is evident in many kinds of uni- and multivariate data. To this end, we present enhancements to a frequency-based method that we previously introduced called the periodic stacking method. These enhancements allow us to separately estimate the dynamics of both the average signal across all stimuli (the 'global' response) and deviations from the average amongst the various stimuli (the 'stimulus-specific' response) evoked in response to a set of stimuli. We also discuss improvements in the signal-to-noise ratio, relative to standard trial averaging methods, that result from the data-adaptive smoothing in our method.
Illusory percepts of moving patterns due to discrete temporal sampling.	Continuously, moving objects under continuous illumination can be seen to move in a direction opposite to their actual motion. This illusory reversed motion can be explained as due to discrete temporal sampling of the moving stimulus by the visual system. If temporal sampling lies behind the illusory motion, then the probability of illusory motion should depend on the temporal frequency of the motion stimulus. By presenting contracting bull's-eye gratings of various spatial frequencies we were able to tease apart the drift speed and temporal frequency. The prevalence of illusory percepts depended on the temporal frequency, not the speed. The data suggest that the human visual system samples the incoming stimulation at a rate near 16 Hz.
Two neural correlates of consciousness.	Neuroscientists continue to search for "the" neural correlate of consciousness (NCC). In this article, I argue that a framework in which there are at least two distinct NCCs is increasingly making more sense of empirical results than one in which there is a single NCC. I outline the distinction between phenomenal NCC and access NCC, and show how they can be distinguished by experimental approaches, in particular signal-detection theory approaches. Recent findings in cognitive neuroscience provide an empirical case for two different NCCs.
A functional neuroimaging study of sound localization: visual cortex activity predicts performance in early-blind individuals.	Blind individuals often demonstrate enhanced nonvisual perceptual abilities. However, the neural substrate that underlies this improved performance remains to be fully understood. An earlier behavioral study demonstrated that some early-blind people localize sounds more accurately than sighted controls using monaural cues. In order to investigate the neural basis of these behavioral differences in humans, we carried out functional imaging studies using positron emission tomography and a speaker array that permitted pseudo-free-field presentations within the scanner. During binaural sound localization, a sighted control group showed decreased cerebral blood flow in the occipital lobe, which was not seen in early-blind individuals. During monaural sound localization (one ear plugged), the subgroup of early-blind subjects who were behaviorally superior at sound localization displayed two activation foci in the occipital cortex. This effect was not seen in blind persons who did not have superior monaural sound localization abilities, nor in sighted individuals. The degree of activation of one of these foci was strongly correlated with sound localization accuracy across the entire group of blind subjects. The results show that those blind persons who perform better than sighted persons recruit occipital areas to carry out auditory localization under monaural conditions. We therefore conclude that computations carried out in the occipital cortex specifically underlie the enhanced capacity to use monaural cues. Our findings shed light not only on intermodal compensatory mechanisms, but also on individual differences in these mechanisms and on inhibitory patterns that differ between sighted individuals and those deprived of vision early in life.
Symmetry activates extrastriate visual cortex in human and nonhuman primates.	Humans often create and appreciate visual symmetry in their environment, and the underlying brain mechanisms have been a topic of increasing interest. Here, symmetric versus random dot stimuli produced robust functional MRI (fMRI) activity in higher-order regions of human visual cortex (especially areas V3A, V4, V7, and LO) but little activity elsewhere in brain. This fMRI response was found both with and without attention controls. Moreover, it was highly correlated with the psychophysical perception of symmetry. Similar symmetry responses were found by using line-based and dot stimuli and were found at a wide range of stimulus sizes and geometric configurations. Weaker symmetry responses were found in analogous regions of macaque visual cortex by using fMRI techniques with higher sensitivity. This evidence suggests that visual symmetry is specifically enhanced in the human brain, but that the underlying neural mechanisms may nevertheless be resolvable in nonhuman primates.
Role of synaptic and intrinsic membrane properties in short-term receptive field dynamics in cat area 17.	We examined the mechanisms through which the prolonged presentation of either a high-contrast stimulus or an artificial scotoma [equivalent to the stimulation of the receptive field (RF) surround] induces changes in the RF properties of neurons intracellularly recorded in cat primary visual cortex. Discharge and synaptic RFs were quantitatively characterized using bright and dark bars randomly flashed in various positions. Compared with the lack of stimulation (0% contrast for 15-30 s), stimulation with high-contrast sine-wave gratings (15-30 s) was followed by a strong reduction in gain and a weak but significant reduction in width of spike discharge RFs. These reductions were accompanied by a membrane potential hyperpolarization, a decrease of synaptic RF width, and varying changes of synaptic RF gain. Passive hyperpolarization by DC injection also produced significant reduction in the width and gain of discharge RF. Mimicking, in single neurons, high-contrast stimulation with high-intensity current injection also induced a membrane potential hyperpolarization, whose amplitude was correlated with discharge RF gain and width changes. Recovery from adaptation to high-contrast stimulation during the period of gray screen or scotoma presentation was associated with an increase in gain and discharge RF size. Stimulation of the RF surround with an artificial scotoma did not have any additional aftereffects over those of adaptation to a gray screen, indicating that the contraction and expansion of RF gain and size are attributable to intrinsic and synaptic mechanisms underlying adaptation and de-adaptation to strong visual stimuli.
Changes of synaptic structure after long-lasting LTP induced by high and low frequency tetanus in slices of the rat visual cortex.	Synaptic ultrastructural changes after long-lasting long-term potentiation (L-LTP) induced by 2 and 100 Hz tetanus were investigated by electron microscopic and stereological approach in slices of the developing rat visual cortex (postnatal days 15~21). Both 2 and 100 Hz tetanus-induced L-LTP groups showed significant increases in synaptic interface curvature, synaptic numeric density and postsynaptic density thickness, as well as significant decreases in the cleft width, as compared with the control groups. In addition, the volume density of the active zone (AZ) was increased significantly in the 100 Hz tetanus-induced L-LTP group, but not in the 2 Hz group. The mean lateral area of individual AZ in the 100 Hz group was relatively higher than that in the 2 Hz group. These data suggest that newly formed synapses in the 100 Hz tetanus-induced L-LTP group are larger than those in the 2 Hz group and that 100 Hz tetanus might trigger reorganization or synthesis of postsynaptic cytoskeleton.
A power efficient electronic implant for a visual cortical neuroprosthesis.	An integrated microstimulator designed for a cortical visual prosthesis is presented, along with a pixel reordering algorithm, together minimizing the peak total current and voltage required for stimulation of large numbers of electrodes at a high rate. In order to maximize the available voltage for stimulation at a given supply voltage for generating biphasic pulses, the device uses monopolar stimulation, where the return electrode voltage is dynamically varied. Thus, the voltage available for stimulation is maximized, as opposed to the conventional fixed return voltage monopolar approach, and impedance is significantly lower than can be achieved using bipolar stimulation with microelectrodes. This enables the use of a low voltage power supply, minimizing power consumption of the device. An important constraint resulting from this stimulation strategy, however, is that current generation needs to be simultaneous and in-phase for all active parallel channels, imposing heavy stress on the wireless power recovery and regulation circuitry in large electrode count systems such as a visual prosthesis. An ordering algorithm to be implemented in the external controller of the prosthesis is then proposed. Based on the data for each frame of the video signal to be transmitted to the implant, the algorithm minimizes the total generated current standard deviation between time multiplexed stimulations by determining the most appropriate combination of parallel stimulation channels to be activated simultaneously. A stimulator prototype has been implemented in CMOS technology and successfully tested. Execution of the external controller reordering algorithm on an application specific hardware architecture has been verified using a System-On-Chip development platform. A near 75% decrease in the total stimulation current standard deviation was observed with a one-pass algorithm, whereas a recursive variation of the algorithm resulted in a greater than 95% decrease of the same variable.
Retinotopic axis specificity and selective clustering of feedback projections from V2 to V1 in the owl monkey.	Cortical maps and feedback connections are ubiquitous features of the visual cerebral cortex. The role of the feedback connections, however, is unclear. This study was aimed at revealing possible organizational relationships between the feedback projections from area V2 and the functional maps of orientation and retinotopy in area V1. Optical imaging of intrinsic signals was combined with cytochrome oxidase histochemistry and connectional anatomy in owl monkeys. Tracer injections were administered at orientation-selective domains in regions of pale and thick cytochrome oxidase stripes adjacent to the border between these stripes. The feedback projections from V2 were found to be more diffuse than the intrinsic horizontal connections within V1, but they nevertheless demonstrated clustering. The clusters of feedback axons projected preferentially to interblob cytochrome oxidase regions. The distribution of preferred orientations of the recipient domains in V1 was broad but appeared biased toward values similar to the preferred orientation of the projecting cells in V2. The global spatial distribution of the feedback projections in V1 was anisotropic. The major axis of anisotropy was systematically parallel to a retinotopic axis in V1 corresponding to the preferred orientation of the cells of origin in V2. We conclude that the feedback connections from V2 to V1 might play a role in enhancing the response in V1 to collinear contour elements.
An information-processing model of three cortical regions: evidence in episodic memory retrieval.	ACT-R (Anderson, J.R., et al., 2003. An information-processing model of the BOLD response in symbol manipulation tasks. Psychon. Bull. Rev. 10, 241-261) relates the inferior dorso-lateral prefrontal cortex to a retrieval buffer that holds information retrieved from memory and the posterior parietal cortex to an imaginal buffer that holds problem representations. Because the number of changes in a problem representation is not necessarily correlated with retrieval difficulties, it is possible to dissociate prefrontal-parietal activations. In two fMRI experiments, we examined this dissociation using the fan effect paradigm. Experiment 1 compared a recognition task, in which representation requirement remains the same regardless of retrieval difficulty, with a recall task, in which both representation and retrieval loads increase with retrieval difficulty. In the recognition task, the prefrontal activation revealed a fan effect but not the parietal activation. In the recall task, both regions revealed fan effects. In Experiment 2, we compared visually presented stimuli and aurally presented stimuli using the recognition task. While only the prefrontal region revealed the fan effect, the activation patterns in the prefrontal and the parietal region did not differ by stimulus presentation modality. In general, these results provide support for the prefrontal-parietal dissociation in terms of retrieval and representation and the modality-independent nature of the information processed by these regions. Using ACT-R, we also provide computational models that explain patterns of fMRI responses in these two areas during recognition and recall.
Independent component analysis of fMRI group studies by self-organizing clustering.	Independent component analysis (ICA) is a valuable technique for the multivariate data-driven analysis of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data sets. Applications of ICA have been developed mainly for single subject studies, although different solutions for group studies have been proposed. These approaches combine data sets from multiple subjects into a single aggregate data set before ICA estimation and, thus, require some additional assumptions about the separability across subjects of group independent components. Here, we exploit the application of similarity measures and a related visual tool to study the natural self-organizing clustering of many independent components from multiple individual data sets in the subject space. Our proposed framework flexibly enables multiple criteria for the generation of group independent components and their random-effects evaluation. We present real visual activation fMRI data from two experiments, with different spatiotemporal structures, and demonstrate the validity of this framework for a blind extraction and selection of meaningful activity and functional connectivity group patterns. Our approach is either alternative or complementary to the group ICA of aggregated data sets in that it exploits commonalities across multiple subject-specific patterns, while addressing as much as possible of the intersubject variability of the measured responses. This property is particularly of interest for a blind group and subgroup pattern extraction and selection.
Accounting for nonlinear BOLD effects in fMRI: parameter estimates and a model for prediction in rapid event-related studies.	Nonlinear effects in fMRI BOLD data may substantially influence estimates of task-related activations, particularly in rapid event-related designs. If the BOLD response to each stimulus is assumed to be independent of the stimulation history, nonlinear interactions create a prediction error that may reduce sensitivity. When stimulus density differs among conditions, nonlinear effects can cause artifactual differences in activation. This situation can occur in rapid event-related designs or when comparing blocks of unequal lengths. We present data showing substantial nonlinear history effects for stimuli 1 s apart and use estimates of nonlinearities in response magnitude, onset time, and time to peak to form a low-dimensional parameterization of these nonlinear effects. Our estimates of nonlinearity appear relatively consistent throughout the brain, and these estimates can be used to form adjusted linear predictors for future rapid event-related fMRI studies. Adjusting the linear model for these known nonlinear effects results in a substantially better model fit. The biggest advantages to using predictors adjusted for known nonlinear effects are (1) higher sensitivity at the individual subject level of analysis, (2) better control of confounds related to nonlinear effects, and (3) more accurate estimates of design efficiency in experimental fMRI design.
Aftereffect of adaptation to Glass patterns.	Our visual systems constantly adapt their representation of the environment to match the prevailing input. Adaptation phenomena provide striking examples of perceptual plasticity and offer valuable insight into the mechanisms of sensory coding. Here, we describe an aftereffect of adaptation to a spatially structured image whereby an unstructured test stimulus takes on illusory structure locally perpendicular to that of the adaptor. Objective measurement of the strength of the aftereffect for different patterns suggests a neural locus of adaptation prior to the extraction of complex form in the visual processing hierarchy, probably at the level of primary visual cortex. This view is supported by further experiments showing that the aftereffect exhibits partial interocular transfer but complete transfer across opposite contrast polarities. However, the aftereffect does show weak position invariance, suggesting that adaptation at higher levels of the visual system may also contribute to the effect.
How visual stimuli activate dopaminergic neurons at short latency.	Unexpected, biologically salient stimuli elicit a short-latency, phasic response in midbrain dopaminergic (DA) neurons. Although this signal is important for reinforcement learning, the information it conveys to forebrain target structures remains uncertain. One way to decode the phasic DA signal would be to determine the perceptual properties of sensory inputs to DA neurons. After local disinhibition of the superior colliculus in anesthetized rats, DA neurons became visually responsive, whereas disinhibition of the visual cortex was ineffective. As the primary source of visual afferents, the limited processing capacities of the colliculus may constrain the visual information content of phasic DA responses.
Directionally selective complex cells and the computation of motion energy in cat visual cortex.	We applied a set of 1- and 2-bar tests to directionally selective (DS) complex cells in the cat's striate cortex, and compared the responses with those predicted by two computational models. Single-bar responses and 2-bar interactions produce distinctive patterns that are highly diagnostic. The observed responses are quite similar to those predicted by a basic (non-opponent) motion-energy model [Adelson & Bergen (1985) Journal of the Optical Society of America A, 2, 284-299]. However, they are not consistent with an opponent combination of energy models, nor are they consistent with any stage of the classic Reichardt model. In particular, the Reichardt model (as well as opponent combinations of energy models) predicts a separable space-time symmetry in the 2-bar interaction that is not observed in our measurements, while the non-opponent energy model predicts an inseparable, oriented interaction very similar to the measured cortical responses. Comparisons between model and measurements suggest possible mechanisms of spatial receptive-field organization and of nonlinear transformations.
Two temporal channels or three? A re-evaluation.	The initial filtering of the image by the human visual system involves only a small number of temporal filters. Several studies suggest there are in fact only two, but some suggest that a third filter, sensitive to high frequencies, exists, at least at low spatial frequencies. This conclusion is derived in part from the observation that temporal frequency discrimination performance is better at very high (30-40 Hz) than at medium (20 Hz) temporal frequencies. We show that this apparent improvement at high frequencies is not real but is an artifact of differences in the rate of perceptual fading as a function of temporal frequency. Using suprathreshold counterphase gratings and a stimulus duration of 1.5 sec we replicated the finding of an improvement at high frequencies at a low (0.5 c/deg) spatial frequency. But when duration was reduced to 300 msec, to minimize fading cues, this improvement disappeared. Similarly, at 4 c/deg, the improvement was present at 3 sec duration but absent at 1.5 sec or less. Direct evidence that this effect of duration reflects differences in the ability to use fading cues was obtained in an experiment in which naive subjects were instructed to discriminate on the basis of fading: at high temporal frequencies and long durations performance was as good or better than for subjects instructed to use frequency; at short durations performance on this task was poor. Thus, the claim that a third temporal channel exists may need to be re-evaluated.
Functional architecture of retinotopy in visual association cortex of behaving monkey.	While the receptive field properties of single neurons in the inferior parietal cortex have been quantitatively described from numerous electrical measurements, the visual topography of area 7a and the adjacent dorsal prelunate area (DP) remains unknown. This lacuna may be a technical byproduct of the difficulty of reconstructing tens to hundreds of penetrations, or may be the result of varying functional retinotopic architectures. Intrinsic optical imaging, performed in behaving monkey for extended periods of time, was used to evaluate retinotopy simultaneously at multiple positions across the cortical surface. As electrical recordings through an implanted artificial dura are difficult, the measurement and quantification of retinotopy with long-term recordings was validated by imaging early visual cortex (areas V1 and V2). Retinotopic topography was found in each of the three other areas studied within a single day's experiment. However, the ventral portion of DP (DPv) had a retinotopic topography that varied from day to day, while the more dorsal aspects (DPd) exhibited consistent retinotopy. This suggests that the dorsal prelunate gyrus may consist of more than one visual area. The retinotopy of area 7a also varied from day to day. Possible mechanisms for this variability across days are discussed as well as its impact upon our understanding of the representation of extrapersonal space in the inferior parietal cortex.
Modulatory effects of low- and high-frequency repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation on visual cortex of healthy subjects undergoing light deprivation.	The aim of the present study was to explore further the effects of light deprivation (LD) on visual cortex excitability. Healthy subjects reporting reliable induction of phosphenes by occipital transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) underwent 60 min of complete LD. Phosphene threshold (PT) was measured before (T0), after 45 min (T1) and 60 min (T2) of LD, and then every 10 min after light re-exposure until recovery to T0 values. Repetitive TMS (rTMS) (at 1 or 10 Hz) was applied in separate sessions during the last 15 min of LD. PTs significantly decreased after 45 min of LD. rTMS differentially modified the effects of 60 min LD on PTs depending on stimulation frequency. One hertz rTMS did not change the decreasing of PT values as observed in baseline condition, but significantly prolonged the time to recover T0 PT values after light re-exposure. By contrast, 10 Hz rTMS significantly increased PT and the time to recover T0 PT values after light re-exposure was shortened. The results of this study show that the modulatory effects of different rTMS frequencies on visual cortex critically depend on the pre-existing excitability state of inhibitory and facilitatory circuits, and provide novel insights into the neurophysiological changes that take place in the visual cortex following functional visual deafferentation.
Effects of inferotemporal cortex lesions on form-from-motion discrimination in monkeys.	The inferotemporal cortex of primates plays a prominent role in the learning and retention of visual form discriminations. In this experiment we investigated the role of inferotemporal (IT) cortex in the discrimination of two-dimensional forms defined by motion cues. Six monkeys were trained to a criterion level of performance on two form-from-motion problems. Three of these animals received complete bilateral lesions of IT cortex, while the other three served as unoperated controls. All animals were then retrained to criterion to evaluate the effects of IT lesions on the retention of form-from-motion learning. Compared with the control group, the lesion group was significantly impaired on both problems. Following retention testing, we trained both groups of monkeys on two new form-from-motion problems to investigate the effects of IT lesions on acquisition rates for new learning. The lesion group performed well on the new problems; the learning rates of the operated and control groups were not significantly different. When forms were defined by luminance cues, monkeys with IT lesions, like those in previous studies, were impaired both for retention and for acquisition. These findings indicate that the anterograde effects of IT lesions on learning new form discriminations are less severe for forms defined by motion cues than for forms defined by luminance cues. However, the retrograde effects of IT lesions on retention are severe for forms defined by either cue.
The application of optical recording of intrinsic signals to simultaneously acquire functional, pathological and localizing information and its potential role in neurosurgery.	The accurate intraoperative localization of epileptic foci and surrounding functional architecture is critical to a successful surgical outcome. Current techniques are limited either by their inability to simultaneously sample large areas of cortex with high spatial resolution or account for dynamic alterations in cortical morphology. Optical recording of intrinsic signals can map neuronal activity in a large area of cortex with a spatial resolution in the order of <100 mum. We explored methods of simultaneously representing localizing information, functional architecture and the border of an epileptic focus in vivo with intrinsic signal imaging.
Nonlagged relay cells and interneurons in the cat lateral geniculate nucleus: receptive-field properties and retinal inputs.	Simultaneous recording in the cat's retina and lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) was used to find excitatory inputs to LGN cells. These recordings, correlated with measurements of LGN cell receptive-field properties, suggested new functional subdivisions of LGN cells. Distinctions between lagged and nonlagged cells were described before (Mastronarde, 1987a,b; Mastronarde et al., 1991), classification of nonlagged cells is examined here. The XS-type relay cells described before (Mastronarde, 1987a,b) each had detectable excitatory input from only one retinal X cell. Cells that received significant input from more than one retinal X cell were of three kinds: relay cells with pure X input (XM); relay cells with mixed X and Y input (X/Y); and cells that could not be antidromically activated from visual cortex (XI). In the series of relay cells, XS-XM-X/Y-Y, cells had progressively larger receptive-field centers, lower spatial resolution, and faster and more Y-like responses to various stimuli. XI cells resembled XM and X/Y cells in some respects but tended to have higher maintained firing rates, more sustained responses, and weaker surround suppression of the center response. The distinctness of XS, XM, X/Y, XI, and Y from each other was examined with a modification of discriminant analysis that allowed cells to lack measurements for some parameters. Any given pair of categories could be distinguished reliably with only three parameters, although less so for X/Y-Y. In particular, XI cells were distinguishable from relay cells by properties other than the results of cortical stimulation, thus supporting the identity of XI cells as a separate class of X interneurons. Two discontinuities in the behavior of retinal input suggest that XM cells are a separate class from XS and X/Y cells: (1) LGN X cells received either no detectable input from any of the retinal X cells adjacent to their main input, or an easily detectable amount from several such cells; and (2) cells received either no Y input or a certain minimum amount. No such discontinuity in input underlies the distinction between X/Y and Y cells. LGN Y cells were also heterogeneous. Those with substantial input from more than one retinal Y cell had larger receptive fields and a greater preference for fast-moving stimuli than did Y cells dominated by a single input. Three Y cells could not be antidromically activated. They tended to differ from Y relay cells and resemble X interneurons in several ways.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Spatial zones of binocular rivalry in central and peripheral vision.	This paper presents results from psychophysical experiments on human binocular rivalry in central and peripheral vision. Results show that the incidence of periods of exclusive visibility of a given eye's rival target increased with decreasing target size, and for a given sized target exclusive visibility increased with retinal eccentricity. Control measures confirmed that these results were not attributable solely to reduced peripheral acuity, to Troxler's effect, or to spatial frequency. We computed the minimum-sized stimulus that would lead to a criterion level of exclusive visibility of one or the other eye; this we term the spatial zone of binocular rivalry. The change in estimated size of spatial zones of rivalry with eccentricity compares favorably with estimates of human cortical magnification. We propose a model that assumes concentrically organized zones of rivalry. These zones do not function independently, but instead exhibit a high degree of mutual excitatory cooperativity. The model has multiple solutions for the foveal zone size, but the best fits predict a diameter of 5.3 or 7.3 min of visual angle; these values dovetail nicely with our empirical estimates of the foveal zone size.
Neuronal responses to static texture patterns in area V1 of the alert macaque monkey.	1. We recorded responses from neurons in area V1 of the alert macaque monkey to textured patterns modeled after stimuli used in psychophysical experiments of pop-out. Neuronal responses to a single oriented line segment placed within a cell's classical receptive field (CRF) were compared with responses in which the center element was surrounded by rings of elements placed entirely outside the CRF. The orientations of the surround elements either matched the center element, were orthogonal to it, or were random. 2. The addition of the textured surround tended to suppress the response to the center element by an average of 34%. Overall, almost 80% of the 122 cells analyzed in detail were significantly suppressed by at least one of the texture surrounds. 3. Cells tended to respond more strongly to a stimulus in which there was a contrast in orientation between the center and surround than to a stimulus lacking such contrast. The average difference was 9% of the response to the optimally oriented center element alone. For the 32% of the cells showing a statistically significant orientation contrast effect, the average difference was 28%. 4. Both the general suppression and orientation contrast effects originated from surround regions at the ends of the center bar as well as regions along the sides of the center bar. 5. The amount of suppression induced by the texture surround decreased as the density of the texture elements decreased. 6. Both the general suppression and the orientation contrast effects appeared early in the population response to the stimuli. The general suppression effect took approximately 7 ms to develop, whereas the orientation contrast effect took 18-20 ms to develop. 7. These results are consistent with a possible functional role of V1 cells in the mediation of perceptual pop-out and in the segregation of texture borders. Possible anatomic substrates of the effects are discussed.
Reading speed with a pixelized vision system.	A visual prosthesis based on electrical stimulation of the visual cortex with an array of penetrating electrodes is expected to produce pixelized visual images consisting of punctate spots of light (phosphenes). We measured reading speed in subjects viewing text with optically simulated phosphene fields in order to obtain estimates of the following design parameters for such an electrode array: pixel number, pixel spacing, and visual-field size. Comparisons were made between scanning the text with eye movements and scanning the text with head movements. The results indicate that a 25 x 25 array of pixels representing four letters of text projected on a foveal visual field of 1.7 degrees is sufficient to provide reading rates near 170 words/min with scrolled text and near 100 words/min with fixed text.
Cross-modal activation of visual cortex during depth perception using auditory substitution of vision.	Previous neuroimaging studies identified multimodal brain areas in the visual cortex that are specialized for processing specific information, such as visual-haptic object recognition. Here, we test whether visual brain areas are involved in depth perception when auditory substitution of vision is used. Nine sighted volunteers were trained blindfolded to use a prosthesis substituting vision with audition both to recognize two-dimensional figures and to estimate distance of an object in a real three-dimensional environment. Using positron emission tomography, regional cerebral blood flow was assessed while the prosthesis was used to explore virtual 3D images; subjects focused either on 2D features (target search) or on depth (target distance comparison). Activation foci were found in visual association areas during both the target search task, which recruited the occipito-parietal cortex, and the depth perception task, which recruited occipito-parietal and occipito-temporal areas. This indicates that some brain areas of the visual cortex are relatively multimodal and may be recruited for depth processing via a sense other than vision.
Instructive signals for motor learning from visual cortical area MT.	Sensory error signals have long been proposed to act as instructive signals to guide motor learning. Here we have exploited the temporal specificity of learning in smooth pursuit eye movements and the well-defined anatomical structure of the neural circuit for pursuit to identify a part of sensory cortex that provides instructive signals for motor learning in monkeys. We show that electrical microstimulation in the motion-sensitive middle temporal area (MT) of extrastriate visual cortex instructs learning in smooth eye movements in a way that closely mimics the learning instructed by real visual motion. We conclude that MT provides instructive signals for motor learning in smooth pursuit eye movements under natural conditions, suggesting a similar role for sensory cortices in many kinds of learned behaviors.
Steady-state visual evoked cortical potentials from stimulation of visual field quadrants. Optimizing pattern variables for the size of the field to be investigated.	The effects of check size and stimulus size were investigated to optimize the steady-state visual evoked cortical potentials from pattern-reversal stimulation of the visual field quadrants. Check sizes of 15', 30', 60', 90', 120' and 180' were investigated at a pattern reversal rate of 11.6 per second for field sizes varying from 2 degrees x 2 degrees to 24 degrees x 24 degrees. The visual evoked cortical potentials were recorded from mid occipital, right occipital and left occipital positions. In the inferonasal quadrant, the largest amplitudes were obtained with 30' and 60' check sizes; however, for these check sizes, the visual evoked cortical potential yielded limited additional information for field sizes greater than 4 degrees x 4 degrees and 6 degrees x 6 degrees, respectively. When a field size of 12 degrees x 12 degrees was investigated, a 90' check size was optimal. The results indicated that, with the above recording positions and check sizes of 15' to 120', there is an optimal number of pattern elements, 40 to 100, for stimulation of the inferonasal quadrant. This should be taken into account when a check size is selected to investigate a field quadrant of a particular size. Digital signal processing techniques were applied to analyze the visual evoked cortical potential, and the system shows promise for objective examination of the visual field.
Detection duration thresholds and evoked potential measures of stereosensitivity.	Visual evoked potentials have been proposed by some researchers to be more useful than behavioral techniques to evaluate stereo performance in children and certain clinical populations. Stimulus duration detection thresholds, visual evoked potentials, and scalp electrical potential distribution maps to dynamic random dot stereograms were studied. A high degree of correspondence was found between visual evoked potential amplitudes and behaviorally determined detection thresholds. Upper field stimuli had higher detection thresholds and generated lower-amplitude visual evoked potential responses than did centrally presented stimuli. For the most eccentrically presented stimuli, lower detection thresholds were found for stimuli presented in the right visual field than the left visual field. This finding was consistent with the pattern of VEP responses to be lateralized, with higher-amplitude responses recorded over left-hemisphere sites. The study examined a proposal that the major negative component of the stereoscopic visual evoked potential originates in cortical area V1. The results failed to support the proposal and were consistent with the main negative component of the VEP being generated in V2, rather than V1.
Comparative effects of luminance and scatter on the pattern visual evoked potential and eye-hand reaction time.	We investigated the effect of reduced luminance and increased scatter on the pattern visual evoked potential and eye-hand reaction time evoked to a check size of 0.5 degrees in 10 normal subjects. Data analysis indicated that a reduction in luminance as well as an increase in scatter caused a statistically significant increase in the peak time of the pattern visual evoked potential P100 wave. The reaction time, however, was not significantly affected by the initial 0.9-log unit attenuation of the stimulus luminance or the 0.3 scatter filter. Further attenuation of luminance or increase of scatter also yielded statistically significant increases. Our results suggest that the reaction time is less affected by a reduction in luminance or an increase in scatter of a 0.5 degrees stimulus than the pattern visual evoked potential is and therefore represents a more reliable test to assess visual function, especially in the presence of medial opacities, which are known to reduce luminance and produce scatter.
Real-time recording of neuropsychophysiological parameters during 50 Hz magnetic field exposure.	In order to assess the possible effects of occupational levels of 50 Hz magnetic fields (MF) on human performance it is preferable to monitor performance during rather than subsequent to MF exposure. We previously reported studies of heart rate and cognitive behaviour where the issue of contamination was not a serious one. Our present study involves electrophysiological measures, which have a greater capacity to identify the effects and assist in localising them. The contamination of EEG signal by the MF exposure is clearly a problem in this type of study. Previous investigators have not reported these types of measurement concurrent with MF exposure due to the contamination difficulty; but this paper reports means of accomplishing this. Overall a combination of 12 methods for reducing pickup were employed. These were: 1) Distancing recording instruments from the MF source; 2) Shielding the devices and wiring; 3) Appropriate choice of cables; 4) Grounding the instrumentation; 5) Orientation of conduits; 6) Isolation of electrical mains power supplies; 7) Balancing the input impedances; 8) Applying a driven shield technique; 9) Improved electronics design incorporating pre-amplification and circuit impedance level control; 10) Analogue filtering; 11) Signal Averaging; and 12) Post acquisition digital filtering using frequency and time domain techniques.
Visibility reflects dynamic changes of effective connectivity between V1 and fusiform cortex.	Identifying the neural basis of visibility is central to understanding conscious visual perception. Visibility of basic features such as brightness is often thought to reflect activity in just early visual cortex. But here we show under metacontrast masking that fMRI activity in stimulus-driven areas of early visual cortex did not reflect parametric changes in the visibility of a brightness stimulus. The psychometric visibility function was instead correlated with activity in later visual regions plus parieto-frontal areas, and surprisingly, in representations of the unstimulated stimulus surround for primary visual cortex. Critically, decreased stimulus visibility was associated with a regionally-specific decoupling between early visual cortex and higher visual areas. This provides evidence that dynamic changes in effective connectivity can closely reflect visual perception.
Human cortical responses to contrast modulations of visual noise.	We studied visual evoked potentials (VEPs) elicited by second-order contrast modulations of binary dynamic noise and first-order luminance modulations. Using a 3-point Laplacian operator centred on Oz, we found that contrast modulations of both low and higher spatial frequencies elicited a negative component whose latency was about 200 ms. The latency of this component was significantly longer than that of the early Laplacian components to first-order luminance modulations. These findings could be due to slower first-stage linear filters and additional processing stages of the second-order pathway. The topographical analysis of scalp recorded VEPs to central and half-field stimulation has suggested that the responses to second-order patterns are likely to be generated by neuronal structures within the primary visual cortex which may have inputs from extrastriate neurons via feedback connections.
Investigation of the primary visual cortex using short-interval paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS).	Previous studies using short-interval paired-pulse TMS have provided valuable insights into physiology of human motor cortex. Depending on the interstimulus interval (ISI) between the two pulses intra-cortical facilitation (ICF) or intra-cortical inhibition (ICI) can be observed. Similar patterns of inhibition and facilitation have also been demonstrated in prefrontal and parietal cortices. In order to prove whether principles that govern cortical excitability in the motor system also extend to the visual system and to further characterize possible neural correlates of phosphene generation, we applied short-interval paired-pulse TMS to the occipital cortex. In addition, we examined the effect of different coil orientations on perception of phosphenes induced by paired-pulse TMS. In all of 10 healthy subjects, a general facilitation of phosphene perception could be observed for interstimulus intervals of 2-12 ms (conditioning stimulus (CS) 90% and test stimulus (TS) 100% of subject's phosphene threshold) compared to TS alone. With CS intensity decreasing to 80% or less, the effect diminished. No significant changes occurred when TS intensity was increased to 110%. Phosphene perception was enhanced with an induced current direction from lateral to medial at an ISI of 12 ms. Inhibition was not observed in any condition. Our results indicate that the mechanisms underlying phosphene induction in the visual cortex are different from those underlying intracortical inhibition and facilitation in the motor cortex.
The earliest EEG signatures of object recognition in a cued-target task are postsensory.	Recent experiments have demonstrated early target minus nontarget differences in the human event-related potential (ERP) during visual object recognition tasks. It is unclear whether these differences reflect high-level visual processes, effectively indexing the speed of object recognition, or whether they arise from postsensory decision processes, leaving the actual time of object recognition uncertain. Here we report three sets of ERP experiments designed to determine what processes underlie the target minus nontarget difference signals seen in visual cued-target paradigms. We demonstrate that the same difference signals are present when the target match is made to word stimuli as well as to object stimuli, suggesting that the disparate mechanisms involved in letter string and object processing are not directly responsible for the signals. We also find that the amplitude of these signals can be reduced by increasing trial difficulty in three different ways: image difficulty, level of semantic categorization, and overall task demands. In many respects, the difference signal is similar to the postrecognition P300. Together, these results suggest that the target minus nontarget difference does not reflect object recognition per se, but rather postsensory decision processes.
Fixation suppression of optokinetic nystagmus modulates cortical visual-vestibular interaction.	Water activation positron emission tomography and statistical group analysis were used to evaluate differences in activation-deactivation patterns during small-field visual motion stimulation, eliciting rightward optokinetic nystagmus and its fixation suppression in 12 healthy volunteers. Bilateral patterns of activation in the visual cortex, including the motion-sensitive area MT/V5, and deactivations in an assembly of vestibular areas (posterior insula, thalamus, anterior cingulate gyrus) during optokinetic nystagmus was markedly diminished or totally absent during its fixation suppression. This finding agrees with the concept of a reciprocal inhibitory interaction between the visual-optokinetic and the vestibular systems, which takes place at a lower level during fixation suppression, because the potential mismatch between the two sensory inputs, visual and vestibular, is then reduced.
Modulations in the degree of synchronization during ongoing oscillatory activity in the human brain.	When a subject is asked to respond as quickly as possible to a stimulus he/she responds much faster if this stimulus is preceded by a warning cue. This cue enables the subject to anticipate the forthcoming stimulus, initiating neural processes subserving the future perception and processing of the target stimulus and the motor preparation of the associated response action. It has recently been suggested that neuronal activity before such an anticipated target stimulus could be associated with modulations in neuronal synchronization and oscillatory activity. Here we recorded electrical brain activity whilst subjects performed a choice reaction time task, in which one of the stimuli could be predicted with 90% certainty. We show that the prediction of a forthcoming stimulus was associated with an increase in gamma oscillations overlying occipital areas and a decrease in beta oscillations overlying sensorimotor cortex before the stimulus was presented. We suggest that these regionally specific modulations in oscillatory activity reflect the establishment of neural networks that are 'primed' for the future processing of the forthcoming predictable visual stimulus.
Functional and cortical adaptations to central vision loss.	Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), affecting the retina, afflicts one out of ten people aged 80 years or older in the United States. AMD often results in vision loss to the central 15-20 deg of the visual field (i.e. central scotoma), and frequently afflicts both eyes. In most cases, when the central scotoma includes the fovea, patients will adopt an eccentric preferred retinal locus (PRL) for fixation. The onset of a central scotoma results in the absence of retinal inputs to corresponding regions of retinotopically mapped visual cortex. Animal studies have shown evidence for reorganization in adult mammals for such cortical areas following experimentally induced central scotomata. However, it is still unknown whether reorganization occurs in primary visual cortex (V1) of AMD patients. Nor is it known whether the adoption of a PRL corresponds to changes to the retinotopic mapping of V1. Two recent advances hold out the promise for addressing these issues and for contributing to the rehabilitation of AMD patients: improved methods for assessing visual function across the fields of AMD patients using the scanning laser ophthalmoscope, and the advent of brain-imaging methods for studying retinotopic mapping in humans. For the most part, specialists in these two areas come from different disciplines and communities, with few opportunities to interact. The purpose of this review is to summarize key findings on both the clinical and neuroscience issues related to questions about visual adaptation in AMD patients.
Decrease of glucose in the human visual cortex during photic stimulation.	Localized proton NMR spectroscopy was used to study cerebral metabolism in the visual cortex of healthy adults during rest and photic stimulation. Basal lactate levels showed considerable interindividual differences ranging from below detectability (less than 0.3 mM) to about 1 mM without consistent alteration during photic stimulation. Local brain glucose levels were significantly reduced (approximately 50%) during the entire period of photic stimulation and recovered to resting levels (approximately 0.8 mM) within 10 min after the end of stimulation. This decrease reflects the establishment of a new equilibrium due to enhanced delivery (blood flow) and enhanced consumption. The absence of lactate accumulation supports the hypothesis of a rapid efflux of lactate from brain tissue under activated conditions.
Neuronal correlates of optic flow stimulation.	Neurons in a region of monkey extrastriate cortex, MSTd, respond to the components of optic flow stimulation. Some of these neurons (single-component neurons) are selective for a single type of motion such as inward- or outward-radial motion. Other neurons respond to multiple types of rotation, for example, rightward planar, clockwise circular, and inward radial. Rather than forming discrete groups, we think these neurons represent a continuum covering the range from single-component sensitivity to multiple-component sensitivity. By combining the optic flow stimuli, we have also been able to recognize that such combinations alter the response of cells in the continuum to varying degrees. At this point, while our evidence is consistent with the hypothesis that cells in area MSTd contribute to the processing of optic flow stimuli, we do not know whether these neurons do in fact serve this function. As in all single-cell recording experiments, even those in awake animals performing tasks closer to real-world tasks than we have succeeded in emulating here, the activity of the cell in relationship to the visual stimulation is simply a correlate of the optic flow stimulation and may or may not contribute to the processing of optic flow stimulation upon which behavior depends. Further information on a number of characteristics of these cells might clarify their role. Information on such factors as whether heading in the environment is conveyed by individual neurons, or whether this property is more likely to be conveyed over a population of neurons, and the role of changes in the point of fixation of the eyes are critical points. Generation of behavior on the basis of the optic flow stimulation and determination that this behavior is modified by selective lesion of MSTd would also strengthen the argument that visual motion processing in this area is related to analyzing optic flow information.
Dead zone for express saccades.	The saccadic eye movements of three humans and one non-human primate (a male rhesus monkey) have been measured for target eccentricities between 0.3 and 15 deg. With a gap task (fixation point offset precedes target onset by 200 ms) and a target at 4 deg, all subjects produced reasonable amounts of express saccades as indicated by a clear peak in the distribution of their saccadic reaction times (SRT): about 100 ms in human subjects and 70 ms in the monkey. This peak disappeared with decreasing target eccentricity below 2 deg, but saccades of longer (regular) reaction times were still present. Thus it was found that there exists a dead zone for express saccades. In addition, small saccades have a much stronger tendency to overshoot the target and their velocity falls above the main sequence as defined by the least square fit of an exponential v = vo(1-exp(-a/ao)) to the maximal velocity (v) versus amplitude (a) relationship (vo and ao are constants fitted). It is concluded that for small saccades the express way is blocked functionally or does not exist anatomically.
Motion coherency rules are form-cue invariant.	Object features can be made manifest by differences in a variety of physical attributes or figural cues. In this study we provide evidence that motion signals arising from different figural cues can be combined to produce a percept of a coherently moving (heterogeneous-cue) pattern. Moreover, as is true for homogeneous-cue patterns, similarity along the dimensions of contrast (we introduce the idea of contrast equivalence) and spatial frequency determines whether coherent motion is perceived. These results are in accordance with recent physiological evidence demonstrating that directional selectivity of many neurons in cortical visual area MT is invariant over changes in the figural cue that defines the moving stimulus ("form-cue invariance").
Texture segregation is processed by primary visual cortex in man and monkey. Evidence from VEP experiments.	We investigated whether the process of texture segregation can be allocated to a specific visual cortical area. We designed a stimulus to reveal the presence of a mechanism, which is specifically sensitive to a checkerboard, that is solely defined by textures segregating due to orientation differences of the constituting line segments. We recorded evoked potentials to this stimulus in man and awake monkey. A difference component, signalling texture segregation sensitivity, could be recorded from both types of subjects. Its presence depended on the spatial extent of the textures, in a manner correlating with the perceptibility of the checkerboard. This difference response could be localized in primary visual cortex by means of equivalent dipole estimations.
Visual persistence of figures defined by relative motion.	In order to measure visual persistence of figures that were solely defined by relative motion (motion-defined figures or motion figures), random-dot kinematograms were used to form stimulus figures in the two-frame, missing element task introduced by Di Lollo, V. (1977 Nature, 257, 241-243). Experiment 1 showed that motion-defined figures persisted for about 130 msec after the termination of the stimulus presentation (i.e. after the dots stopped moving). This was similar to but several tens of milliseconds longer than the visual persistence of figures which were defined by a luminance difference (luminance-defined figures or luminance figures) in the same random-dot pattern. Since motion detectors are not found in the retina or lateral geniculate in primates, our results strongly suggest that visual persistence is not only a retinal phenomenon but also a cortical one. Experiment 2 investigated the possible influence of motion aftereffects on the visual persistence of motion figures. The results showed that coherent movement of the dots over the whole display after the stimulus offset did not reduce the visual persistence of motion figures, suggesting that the source of this persistence is not a motion aftereffect. In Experiment 3, visual persistence for the motion-defined figures was shown to be longer than that for luminance-defined figures independently of the contrast of the stimulus figure as long as the stimuli could be seen clearly enough. This suggests that different mechanisms are involved in the visual persistence of motion-defined and luminance-defined figures.
Simulation of neural contour mechanisms: from simple to end-stopped cells.	Early stages of visual form processing were modelled by simulating cortical simple, complex and end-stopped cells. The computation involves (1) convolution of the image with even and odd symmetrical orientation selective filters (S-operators), (2) combination of even and odd filter outputs to a local energy measure (C-operator), (3) "differentiation" of the C-operator maps along the respective orientation (single and double end-stopped operators) and (4) determination of local maxima ("key-points") of the combined end-stopped operator activity. While S- and C-operators are optimised for the representation of 1-D features such as edges and lines, the end-stopped operator responses at the key-points make explicit 2-D signal variations such as line ends, corners and segments of strong curvature. The theoretical need for this complementary representation is discussed. The model was tested on grey-valued images.
Relaxation network for Gabor image decomposition.	The so-called "simple cells" in layer IV of feline primary visual cortex have been shown to have Gabor function spatial receptive field profiles (RFP's). Since Gabor functions are not mutually orthogonal, the decomposition of an image into Gabor function coefficients is usually performed by minimising some measure of the error between the original image and that reconstructed from the coefficients. A cortical relaxation model is proposed which performs this minimisation implicitly, and is used to examine the biological relevance and feasibility of reconstruction error minimisation.
Microstimulation in visual area MT: effects on direction discrimination performance.	Physiological and behavioral evidence suggests that the activity of direction selective neurons in visual cortex underlies the perception of moving visual stimuli. We tested this hypothesis by measuring the effects of cortical microstimulation on perceptual judgements of motion direction. To accomplish this, rhesus monkeys were trained to discriminate the direction of motion in a near-threshold, stochastic motion display. For each experiment, we positioned a microelectrode in the middle of a cluster of neurons that shared a common preferred direction of motion. The psychophysical task was then adjusted so that the visual display was presented directly over the neurons' receptive field. The monkeys were required to discriminate between motion shown either in the direction preferred by the neurons or in the opposite direction. On half the trials of an experiment, we applied electrical microstimulation while monkeys viewed the motion display. We hypothesized that enhancing the neurons' discharge rate would introduce a directionally specific signal into the cortex and thereby influence the monkeys' choices on the discrimination task. We compared the monkeys' performance on "stimulated" and "nonstimulated" trials in 139 experiments; all trials within an experiment were presented in random order. Statistically significant effects of microstimulation were obtained in 89 experiments. In 86 of the 89 experiments with significant effects (97%), the monkeys indicated that motion was in the neurons' preferred direction more frequently on stimulated trials than on nonstimulated trials. The data demonstrate a functional link between the activity of direction selective neurons and perceptual judgements of motion direction.
Dynamic magnetic resonance imaging of human brain activity during primary sensory stimulation.	Neuronal activity causes local changes in cerebral blood flow, blood volume, and blood oxygenation. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques sensitive to changes in cerebral blood flow and blood oxygenation were developed by high-speed echo planar imaging. These techniques were used to obtain completely noninvasive tomographic maps of human brain activity, by using visual and motor stimulus paradigms. Changes in blood oxygenation were detected by using a gradient echo (GE) imaging sequence sensitive to the paramagnetic state of deoxygenated hemoglobin. Blood flow changes were evaluated by a spin-echo inversion recovery (IR), tissue relaxation parameter T1-sensitive pulse sequence. A series of images were acquired continuously with the same imaging pulse sequence (either GE or IR) during task activation. Cine display of subtraction images (activated minus baseline) directly demonstrates activity-induced changes in brain MR signal observed at a temporal resolution of seconds. During 8-Hz patterned-flash photic stimulation, a significant increase in signal intensity (paired t test; P less than 0.001) of 1.8% +/- 0.8% (GE) and 1.8% +/- 0.9% (IR) was observed in the primary visual cortex (V1) of seven normal volunteers. The mean rise-time constant of the signal change was 4.4 +/- 2.2 s for the GE images and 8.9 +/- 2.8 s for the IR images. The stimulation frequency dependence of visual activation agrees with previous positron emission tomography observations, with the largest MR signal response occurring at 8 Hz. Similar signal changes were observed within the human primary motor cortex (M1) during a hand squeezing task and in animal models of increased blood flow by hypercapnia. By using intrinsic blood-tissue contrast, functional MRI opens a spatial-temporal window onto individual brain physiology.
High-frequency stimulation together with adrenoceptor activation facilitates the maintenance of long-term potentiation at visual cortical inhibitory synapses.	Long-term potentiation (LTP) at inhibitory synapses of rat visual cortex requires firing of presynaptic cells for maintenance, at least at a low frequency. We examined the roles of adrenoceptors in this LTP maintenance. Although high-frequency stimulation (HFS) failed to produce LTP in normal Ca2+ medium, it produced pathway-specific LTP with addition of noradrenaline to the medium soon after HFS. However, this LTP disappeared after washout of noradrenaline. HFS applied during noradrenaline application produced LTP persisting even after washout, indicating that HFS together with adrenoceptor activation makes the adrenergic facilitation enduring. After washout, LTP was produced further by HFS of the conditioned, but not the unconditioned, pathway by the first HFS. Pharmacological examination demonstrated that alpha2 and beta, but not alpha1, receptors facilitated LTP maintenance synergistically. Bath application, but not postsynaptic loading, of either the adenylyl cyclase activator forskolin or the protein kinase C (PKC) activator phorbol ester facilitated LTP maintenance. These results suggest that adrenergic facilitation of LTP maintenance is mediated by presynaptic adrenoceptors via a subfamily of adenylyl cyclases stimulated by Gsalpha, Gibetagamma, and PKC. Thus, it is likely that the activity of noradrenergic afferents takes part in the control of LTP duration at visual cortical inhibitory synapses.
V1 partially solves the stereo aperture problem.	If a bar stimulus extends beyond a cell's receptive field, then alterations in binocular disparity parallel to the bar's orientation leave the portion of the stimulus within the cell's receptive field unchanged. This makes it hard for the cell to respond correctly to the bar's disparity. Likening the cell's receptive field to an aperture through which the cell views the world, this issue has been called the "aperture problem" and is a specific form of the more general stereo correspondence problem. We found no cells in macaque primary visual cortex (V1) that, when faced with this situation, were sensitive to the disparity of the bar. However, we did find a number of cells that showed sensitivity to parallel disparity shifts, but these cells responded only to the ends of the long bar. The ability to respond selectively to such tracking features could be the first step towards solving the stereo aperture problem. The second step would require either that the disparity information that in V1 is associated only with the ends of the stimulus be associated with the rest of the stimulus or that subsequent stages of visual processing respond preferentially to the end-selective cells. As this second step does not appear to occur in V1, we conclude that V1 only partially solves the stereo aperture problem.
Context influences early perceptual analysis of faces--an electrophysiological study.	Electrophysiological and hemodynamic correlates of processing isolated faces have been investigated extensively over the last decade. A question not addressed thus far is whether the visual scene, which normally surrounds a face or a facial expression, has an influence on how the face is processed. Here we investigated this issue by presenting faces in natural contexts and measuring whether the emotional content of the scene influences processing of a facial expression. Event-related potentials were recorded to faces (fearful/neutral) embedded in scene contexts (fearful/neutral) while participants performed an orientation-decision task (face upright or inverted). Two additional experiments were run, one to examine the effects of context that occur without a face and the other to evaluate the effects of faces isolated from contexts. Faces without any context showed the largest N170 amplitudes. The presence of a face in a fearful context enhances the N170 amplitude over a face in neutral contexts, an effect that is strongest for fearful faces on left occipito-temporal sites. This N170 effect, and the corresponding topographic distribution, was not found for contexts-only, indicating that the increased N170 amplitude results from the combination of face and fearful context. These findings suggest that the context in which a face appears may influence how it is encoded.
Rapid face-selective adaptation of an early extrastriate component in MEG.	Adaptation paradigms are becoming increasingly popular for characterizing visual areas in neuroimaging, but the relation of these results to perception is unclear. Neurophysiological studies have generally reported effects of stimulus repetition starting at 250-300 ms after stimulus onset, well beyond the latencies of components associated with perception (100-200 ms). Here we demonstrate adaptation for earlier evoked components when 2 stimuli (S1 and S2) are presented in close succession. Using magnetoencephalography, we examined the M170, a "face-selective" response at 170 ms after stimulus onset that shows a larger response to faces than to other stimuli. Adaptation of the M170 occurred only when stimuli were presented with relatively short stimulus onset asynchronies (< 800 ms) and was larger for faces preceded by faces than by houses. This face-selective adaptation is not merely low-level habituation to physical stimulus attributes, as photographic, line-drawing, and 2-tone face images produced similar levels of adaptation. Nor does it depend on the amplitude of the S1 response: adaptation remained greater for faces than houses even when the amplitude of the S1 face response was reduced by visual noise. These results indicate that rapid adaptation of early, short-latency responses not only exists but also can be category selective.
Large-scale visuomotor integration in the cerebral cortex.	Efficient visuomotor behavior depends on integrated processing by the visual and motor systems of the cerebral cortex. Yet, many previous cortical neurophysiology studies have examined the visual and motor modalities in isolation, largely ignoring questions of large-scale cross-modal integration. To address this issue, we analyzed event-related local field potentials simultaneously recorded from multiple visual, motor, and executive cortical sites in monkeys performing a visuomotor pattern discrimination task. The timing and cortical location of four aspects of event-related activities were examined: stimulus-evoked activation onset, stimulus-specific processing, stimulus category-specific processing, and response-specific processing. Activations appeared earliest in striate cortex and rapidly thereafter in other visual areas. Stimulus-specific processing began early in most visual cortical areas, some at activation onset. Early onset latencies were also observed in motor, premotor, and prefrontal areas, some as early as in striate cortex, but these early-activating frontal sites did not show early stimulus-specific processing. Response-specific processing began around 150 ms poststimulus in widespread cortical areas, suggesting that perceptual decision formation and response selection arose through concurrent processes of visual, motor, and executive areas. The occurrence of stimulus-specific and stimulus category-specific differences after the onset of response-specific processing suggests that sensory and motor stages of visuomotor processing overlapped in time.
Correlation between axonal morphologies and synaptic input kinetics of interneurons from mouse visual cortex.	Neocortical interneurons display great morphological and physiological variability and are ideally positioned to control circuit dynamics, although their exact role is still poorly understood. To better understand this diversity, we have performed a detailed anatomical and physiological characterization of 3 subtypes of visual cortex interneurons, isolated from transgenic mice which express green fluorescent protein in somatostatin, parvalbumin, and neuropeptide Y positive neurons. We find that these 3 groups of interneurons have systematic differences in dendritic and axonal morphologies and also characteristically differ in the frequencies, amplitude, and kinetics of the spontaneous excitatory and inhibitory synaptic currents they receive. Moreover, we detect a correlation between the kinetics of their synaptic inputs and quantitative aspects of their axonal arborizations. This suggests that different interneuron types could channel different temporal patterns of activity. Our results also confirm the importance of the axonal morphology to classify interneurons.
Antisaccade deficit after inactivation of the principal sulcus in monkeys.	The antisaccade (AS) task, which requires the ability to suppress unwanted reflexive glances, has proven to be a powerful tool for the analysis of executive control. Performing this task activates a large frontoparietal network, but which area is specifically responsible for reflexive saccade (RS) inhibition has not yet been demonstrated. We reversibly inactivated portions of the principal sulcus in 2 monkeys trained to perform AS and RS tasks. Here we show that inactivation of a circumscribed area in the ventral bank of the principal sulcus induced a strong impairment of RS inhibition without affecting RS triggering. Our results are compatible with a partitioning of the principal sulcus into functional subregions, in which a well-delineated area is critically involved in RS suppression.
FEF TMS affects visual cortical activity.	We tested whether the frontal eye field (FEF) is critical in controlling visual processing in posterior visual brain areas during the orienting of spatial attention. Short trains (5 pulses at 10 Hz) of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) were applied to the right FEF during the cueing period of a covert attentional task while event-related potentials (ERPs) were simultaneously recorded from lateral posterior electrodes, where visual components are prominent. FEF TMS significantly affected the neural activity evoked by visual stimuli, as well as the ongoing neural activity recorded during earlier anticipation of the visual stimuli. The effects of FEF TMS started earlier and were greatest for brain activity recorded ipsilaterally to FEF TMS and contralaterally to the visual stimulus. The TMS-induced effect on visual ERPs occurred at the same time as ERPs were shown to be modulated by visual attention. Importantly, no similar effects were observed after TMS of a control site that was physically closer but not anatomically interconnected to the recording sites. The results show that the human FEF has a causal influence over the modulation of visual activity in posterior areas when attention is being allocated.
Sub-exemplar shape tuning in human face-related areas.	Although human face recognition performance shows high selectivity, even for unfamiliar faces, the neuronal circuitry underlying this high performance is poorly understood. Two extreme alternatives can be considered: either a "labeled-line" principle, in which subtle changes in face images lead to activation of differently tuned neuronal populations, or a coarse coding principle, where the high face selectivity is coded by the relative activation of broadly tuned neurons. In this study, we set to parametrically examine the shape and selectivity profile of face-related visual areas. To that end, we applied the functional magnetic resonance (fMR)-adaptation paradigm. Unfamiliar face stimuli were morphed into sets ranging from identical faces, through subtle morphing, to completely different exemplars. The fusiform face area (FFA) revealed high face sensitivity, so that even facial images perceived as belonging to the same individual (<35%) were sufficient to produce full recovery from adaptation. Interestingly, the psychophysical detectability of facial differences paralleled the release from fMR-adaptation. These results support the labeled-line model where high sensitivity to face changes is paralleled by narrow tuning of neuronal populations selective to each face image, and they suggest that fMR-adaptation is closely related to behavior. The results bear strong implications to the nature of face-related neuronal responses.
Visual quality determines the direction of neural repetition effects.	One ubiquitous finding in functional magnetic resonance imaging studies is that repeated stimuli elicit lower responses than novel stimuli. In apparent contradiction, some studies have reported the exact opposite effect--greater responses to repeated than novel stimuli--in many of the same brain regions. Interestingly, these latter enhancement effects are typically obtained when stimuli have been degraded. To explore this observation, the present study examines the degree to which visual quality mediates repetition effects in a stimulus-selective ventral visual area. Subjects were presented with grayscale photographs of scenes that were either near or substantially above visual threshold, as determined by calibrating image contrast to behavioral performance. The presentation of 2 identical high-contrast scenes elicited lower blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) responses than the presentation of 2 different high-contrast scenes (repetition attenuation). Conversely, the presentation of 2 identical low-contrast scenes elicited greater BOLD responses than the presentation of 2 different low-contrast scenes (repetition enhancement). Neurophysiological studies suggest that repetition attenuation in ventral visual areas may reflect the reactivation of perceptual representations that have become sparse and selective as a result of prior experience, whereas repetition enhancement may reflect spared access to existing representations by severely degraded input.
Spatiotemporal dynamics of the functional architecture for gain fields in inferior parietal lobule of behaving monkey.	Intrinsic optical imaging has revealed a representation of eye position smoothly mapped across the surface of the inferior parietal lobule in behaving monkeys. We demonstrate here that blood vessels imaged along with the cortex have large signals tuned sometimes, but not always, to match the surrounding tissue. The relationship between the vessels and surrounding tissue in both space and time was explored using independent component analysis (ICA). Working only with single-trial data, ICA discovered a sequence of regions corresponding to the vascular propagation of activated signals from remote loci into the blood vessels. The vascular signals form a novel map of cortical function--the functional angioarchitecture--superimposed upon the cortical functional architecture. Furthermore, the incorporation of temporal aspects in optical data permitted the tuning of the inferior parietal lobule to be tracked in time through the task, demonstrating the expression of unusual tuning properties that might be exploited for higher cognitive functions.
Disjunctive eye movement evoked by microstimulation in an extrastriate cortical area of the cat.	Slow disjunctive eye movement similar to ocular convergence was evoked by microstimulation in parts of the lateral suprasylvian area (LSA) in alert cats. A tungsten-in-glass microelectrode was used for stimulation, and eye movement was monitored using the magnetic search coil method. The velocity-versus-amplitude relationship of disjunctive eye movement evoked by microstimulation was comparable to that of ocular convergence evoked by presenting a visual target. It is suggested that the LSA plays a role in controlling convergence eye movement.
Similar frontal and distinct posterior cortical regions mediate visual and auditory perceptual awareness.	Activity in ventral visual cortex is a consistent neural correlate of visual consciousness. However, activity in this area seems insufficient to produce awareness without additional involvement of frontoparietal regions. To test the generality of the frontoparietal response, neural correlates of auditory awareness were investigated in a paradigm that previously has revealed frontoparietal activity during conscious visual perception. A within-experiment comparison showed that frontal regions were related to both visual and auditory awareness, whereas parietal activity was correlated with visual awareness and superior temporal activity with auditory awareness. These results indicate that frontal regions interact with specific posterior regions to produce awareness in different sensory modalities.
The neural mechanisms underlying the Mller-Lyer illusion and its interaction with visuospatial judgments.	Arrows terminating a line can distort the perceived line length. This so-called Mller-Lyer illusion can be used in healthy human subjects to mimic the performance of neglect patients in visuospatial judgments (e.g., in the landmark task). In this study, we investigated the neural mechanisms underlying the Mller-Lyer illusion, the landmark task, and their interaction. This was achieved by parametrically manipulating the magnitude of the Mller-Lyer illusion both in a landmark and in a luminance (control) task. As expected, the landmark task activated right posterior parietal cortex and right temporo-occipital cortex. In contrast, the neural processes associated with the strength of the Mller-Lyer illusion were located bilaterally in the lateral occipital cortex as well as the right superior parietal cortex. The data not only converge with but also extend neuropsychological data that indicate maintained line-length illusion in neglect patients. In addition, our results support the size-constancy scaling hypothesis as a putative mechanism underlying line-length illusions. Furthermore, activation that was driven by both the task and the strength of the Mller-Lyer illusion was observed in right intraparietal sulcus, thus arguing in favor of an interaction of illusory information with the top-down processes underlying visuospatial judgments in right parietal cortex.
Heterosynaptic facilitation of in vivo thalamocortical long-term potentiation in the adult rat visual cortex by acetylcholine.	Acetylcholine (ACh) plays a permissive role in developmental plasticity of fibers from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) to the primary visual cortex (V1). These fibers remain plastic and express long-term potentiation (LTP) in adult rodents, but it is not known if ACh modulates this form of plasticity in the mature V1. We show that, in anesthetized rats, theta burst stimulation (TBS) of the LGN using 5 or 40 theta cycles produced moderate (approximately 20%) and stronger (approximately 40%) potentiation, respectively, of field postsynaptic potentials recorded in the ipsilateral V1. Basal forebrain stimulation (100 Hz) 5 min after TBS enhanced LTP induced by both weak (5 theta cycles) and strong (40 theta cycles) induction protocols. Both effects were reduced by systemic administration of the muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine. Basal forebrain stimulation did not enhance LTP when applied 30 min after or 5 min prior to TBS, suggesting that ACh affects early LTP induction mechanisms. Application of the cholinergic agonist carbachol in V1 by means of reverse microdialysis mimicked the effect of basal forebrain stimulation. We conclude that heterosynaptic facilitation of V1 plasticity by ACh extends beyond early postnatal maturation periods and acts to convert weak potentiation into pronounced, long-lasting increases in synaptic strength.
'Simplification' of responses of complex cells in cat striate cortex: suppressive surrounds and 'feedback' inactivation.	In mammalian striate cortex (V1), two distinct functional classes of neurones, the so-called simple and complex cells, are routinely distinguished. They can be quantitatively differentiated from each other on the basis of the ratio between the phase-variant (F1) component and the mean firing rate (F0) of spike responses to luminance-modulated sinusoidal gratings (simple, F1/F0 > 1; complex, F1/F0 < 1). We investigated how recurrent cortico-cortical connections affect the spatial phase-variance of responses of V1 cells in the cat. F1/F0 ratios of the responses to optimally oriented drifting sine-wave gratings covering the classical receptive field (CRF) of single V1 cells were compared to those of: (1) responses to gratings covering the CRFs combined with gratings of different orientations presented to the 'silent' surrounds; and (2) responses to CRF stimulation during reversible inactivation of postero-temporal visual (PTV) cortex. For complex cells, the relative strength of the silent surround suppression on CRF-driven responses was positively correlated with the extent of increases in F1/F0 ratios. Inactivation of PTV cortex increased F1/F0 ratios of CRF-driven responses of complex cells only. Overall, activation of suppressive surrounds or inactivation of PTV 'converted' substantial proportions (50 and 30%, respectively) of complex cells into simple-like cells (F1/F0 > 1). Thus, the simple-complex distinction depends, at least partly, on information coming from the silent surrounds and/or feedback from 'higher-order' cortices. These results support the idea that simple and complex cells belong to the same basic cortical circuit and the spatial phase-variance of their responses depends on the relative strength of different synaptic inputs.
Induction of long-term potentiation without participation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in kitten visual cortex.	1. Intracellular recording was made from layer II-III cells in slice preparations of kitten (30-40 days old) visual cortex. Low-frequency (0.1 Hz) stimulation of white matter (WM) usually evoked an excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) followed by an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP). The postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) showed strong dependence on stimulus frequency. Early component of EPSP and IPSP evoked by weak stimulation both decreased monotonically at frequencies greater than 0.5-1 Hz. Strong stimulation similarly depressed the early EPSP at higher frequencies (greater than 2 Hz) and replaced the IPSP with a late EPSP, which had a maximum amplitude in the stimulus frequency range of 2-5 Hz. 2. Very weak WM stimulation sometimes evoked EPSPs in isolation from IPSPs. The falling phase of the EPSP revealed voltage dependence characteristic to the responses mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and was depressed by application of an NMDA antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV), whereas the rising phase of the EPSP was insensitive to APV. 3. The early EPSPs followed by IPSPs were insensitive to APV but were replaced with a slow depolarizing potential by application of a non-NMDA antagonist 6,7-dinitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX), indicating that the early EPSP is mediated by non-NMDA receptors. The slow depolarization was mediated by NMDA receptors because it was depressed by membrane hyperpolarization or addition of APV. 4. The late EPSP evoked by higher-frequency stimulation was abolished by APV, indicating that it is mediated by NMDA receptors, which are located either on the recorded cell or on presynaptic cells to the recorded cells. 5. Long-term potentiation (LTP) of EPSPs was examined in cells perfused with solutions containing 1 microM bicuculline methiodide (BIM), a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist. WM was stimulated at 2 Hz for 15 min as a conditioning stimulus to induce LTP, and the resultant changes were tested by low-frequency (0.1 Hz) stimulation of WM. 6. LTP of early EPSPs occurred in more than one-half of the cells (8/13) after strong conditioning stimulation. The rising slope of the EPSP was increased 1.6 times on average. 7. To test involvement of NMDA receptors in the induction of LTP in the early EPSP, the effect of conditioning stimulation was studied in a solution containing 100 microM APV, which was sufficient to block completely synaptic transmission mediated by NMDA receptors. LTP occurred in the same frequency and magnitude as in control solution.
Modulation of visual responses in macaque frontal eye field during covert tracking of invisible targets.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the interaction between internal representations of invisible moving targets and visual responses of neurons in frontal eye fields (FEFs). Monkeys were trained to make saccades to the extrapolated position of a target that was temporarily rendered invisible for variable durations as if it had passed behind an occluder. Flashed, task-irrelevant visual probe stimuli were used to study the visual responsiveness of FEF neurons during this task. Probes were flashed at various times and locations during the occlusion interval. Net changes in neuronal activity were obtained by comparing the activity on trials with probes with randomly interleaved trials without any probe. Most neurons showed an increase in firing rate in response to the probe, but some showed a decrease. Both types of responses were enhanced when the invisible target moved toward the receptive field (RF) as compared with trials on which the target moved away from the RF. Some neurons showed a spatial shift in the visual response during the occlusion interval. For cells that were excited by the probe, the shift tended to be correlated with the direction of motion of the target, whereas for cells that were inhibited the shift tended to be in the opposite direction. These results suggest that the role of FEF in predicting invisible target motion includes a sensory/perceptual component.
Feedforward construction of the receptive field and orientation selectivity of visual neurons in the pigeon.	How the receptive field (RF) of visual cells is formed and how to explain the orientation selectivity have been intensely studied and debated. Here we provided direct electrophysiological evidence by single-unit recording and electrophysiological mapping that the elongated excitatory RF of a visual cell in the pigeon nucleus isthmi is constructed from aligned circular excitatory RFs of tectal cells, whereas its inhibitory RF originates from intranuclear inhibitory circuits. The orientation selectivity of an isthmic cell is mainly determined by its excitatory RF and sharply tuned by its inhibitory RF. Retrograde tracing showed that the tectal cells converging onto an isthmic cell are arranged in a narrow dorsoventral column in the tectum. According to the retinotopic map on the tectum, the excitatory RFs of these tectal cells are aligned in a line orthogonal to the horizontal meridian of the visual field in agreement with the result obtained by electrophysiological mapping.
The effect of temporal asynchrony on the multisensory integration of letters and speech sounds.	Temporal proximity is a critical determinant for cross-modal integration by multisensory neurons. Information content may serve as an additional binding factor for more complex or less natural multisensory information. Letters and speech sounds, which form the basis of literacy acquisition, are not naturally related but associated through explicit learning. We investigated the relative importance of temporal proximity and information content on the integration of letters and speech sounds by manipulating both factors within the same functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) design. The results reveal significant interactions between temporal proximity and content congruency in anterior and posterior auditory association cortex, indicating that temporal synchrony is critical for the integration of letters and speech sounds. The temporal profiles for multisensory integration in the auditory association cortex resemble those demonstrated for single multisensory neurons in different brain structures and animal species. This similarity suggests that basic neural integration rules apply to the binding of multisensory information that is not naturally related but overlearned during literacy acquisition. Furthermore, the present study shows the suitability of fMRI to study temporal aspects of multisensory neural processing.
Synaptic physiology of horizontal connections in the cat's visual cortex.	Horizontal connections are a principal component of intrinsic cortical circuitry. They arise mainly from pyramidal cells and course parallel to the brain's surface for distances as long as 8 mm, linking columns with shared orientation preference and allowing cells to integrate visual information from outside their receptive fields. We examined the synaptic physiology of the horizontal pathway in slices of the cat's striate cortex and found that activating lateral fibers produced both excitation and inhibition. We recorded the postsynaptic responses of identified pyramidal cells in layer 2 + 3 of area 17 to electrical shocks applied at three sites: in the home column of the impaled neuron either in layer 2 + 3 or 4, or at a lateral distance of 0.9-3 mm in layer 2 + 3. Within the home column, suprathreshold stimuli produced compound EPSPs with action potentials, followed by fast, GABAAergic IPSPs and a slower, GABABergic IPSP. For the distant stimulating site, the threshold response was an EPSP. Stronger shocks frequently evoked a disynaptic, GABAAergic IPSP that truncated the EPSP and could dominate the postsynaptic response. At the resting potential, the horizontally evoked EPSP was too small to elicit spikes. With depolarization of the membrane, however, it grew several hundred-fold. This amplification was blocked by N-(2,6-dimethylphenylcarbamoylmethyl)triethylammonium bromide (QX-314), but not by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV), indicating that it was mediated by Na+ channels, rather than by NMDA receptors. We propose that the horizontal connections provide the means for stimuli outside the receptive field to modulate activity elicited within its confines. The voltage-dependent enhancement of the laterally evoked EPSP may explain why stimulating the surround by itself fails to drive cells but can facilitate their response to stimuli within the receptive field. The ability to initiate disynaptic inhibition from lateral sites shows that recruiting appropriate groups of horizontal fibers can also have a suppressive effect. Thus, the effect of horizontal input is state dependent, with the size and sign of the laterally evoked response changing according to the balance of converging inputs.
Spatiotemporal analysis of the cortical sources of the steady-state visual evoked potential.	This study aimed to characterize the neural generators of the steady-state visual evoked potential (SSVEP) to repetitive, 6 Hz pattern-reversal stimulation. Multichannel scalp recordings of SSVEPs and dipole modeling techniques were combined with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and retinotopic mapping in order to estimate the locations of the cortical sources giving rise to the SSVEP elicited by pattern reversal. The time-varying SSVEP scalp topography indicated contributions from two major cortical sources, which were localized in the medial occipital and mid-temporal regions of the contralateral hemisphere. Colocalization of dipole locations with fMRI activation sites indicated that these two major sources of the SSVEP were located in primary visual cortex (V1) and in the motion sensitive (MT/V5) areas, respectively. Minor contributions from mid-occipital (V3A) and ventral occipital (V4/V8) areas were also considered. Comparison of SSVEP phase information with timing information collected in a previous transient VEP study (Di Russo et al. [2005] Neuroimage 24:874-886) suggested that the sequence of cortical activation is similar for steady-state and transient stimulation. These results provide a detailed spatiotemporal profile of the cortical origins of the SSVEP, which should enhance its use as an efficient clinical tool for evaluating visual-cortical dysfunction as well as an investigative probe of the cortical mechanisms of visual-perceptual processing.
Effects of theta burst stimulation protocols on phosphene threshold.	We investigated the effects on occipital cortex, of two newly developed methods of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS): continuous and intermittent theta burst stimulation (cTBS and iTBS), that lead to long lasting changes in excitability when applied over primary motor cortex.
Neural correlates of monocular and binocular depth cues based on natural images: a LORETA analysis.	Functional imaging studies investigating perception of depth rely solely on one type of depth cue based on non-natural stimulus material. To overcome these limitations and to provide a more realistic and complete set of depth cues natural stereoscopic images were used in this study. Using slow cortical potentials and source localization we aimed to identify the neural correlates of monocular and binocular depth cues. This study confirms and extends functional imaging studies, showing that natural images provide a good, reliable, and more realistic alternative to artificial stimuli, and demonstrates the possibility to separate the processing of different depth cues.
Multi-area visuotopic map complexes in macaque striate and extra-striate cortex.	We propose that a simple, closed-form mathematical expression-the Wedge-Dipole mapping-provides a concise approximation to the full-field, two-dimensional topographic structure of macaque V1, V2, and V3. A single map function, which we term a map complex, acts as a simultaneous descriptor of all three areas. Quantitative estimation of the Wedge-Dipole parameters is provided via 2DG data of central-field V1 topography and a publicly available data set of full-field macaque V1 and V2 topography. Good quantitative agreement is obtained between the data and the model presented here. The increasing importance of fMRI-based brain imaging motivates the development of more sophisticated two-dimensional models of cortical visuotopy, in contrast to the one-dimensional approximations that have been in common use. One reason is that topography has traditionally supplied an important aspect of "ground truth," or validation, for brain imaging, suggesting that further development of high-resolution fMRI will be facilitated by this data analysis. In addition, several important insights into the nature of cortical topography follow from this work. The presence of anisotropy in cortical magnification factor is shown to follow mathematically from the shared boundary conditions at the V1-V2 and V2-V3 borders, and therefore may not causally follow from the existence of columnar systems in these areas, as is widely assumed. An application of the Wedge-Dipole model to localizing aspects of visual processing to specific cortical areas-extending previous work in correlating V1 cortical magnification factor to retinal anatomy or visual psychophysics data-is briefly discussed.
Distributed and interactive brain mechanisms during emotion face perception: evidence from functional neuroimaging.	Brain imaging studies in humans have shown that face processing in several areas is modulated by the affective significance of faces, particularly with fearful expressions, but also with other social signals such gaze direction. Here we review haemodynamic and electrical neuroimaging results indicating that activity in the face-selective fusiform cortex may be enhanced by emotional (fearful) expressions, without explicit voluntary control, and presumably through direct feedback connections from the amygdala. fMRI studies show that these increased responses in fusiform cortex to fearful faces are abolished by amygdala damage in the ipsilateral hemisphere, despite preserved effects of voluntary attention on fusiform; whereas emotional increases can still arise despite deficits in attention or awareness following parietal damage, and appear relatively unaffected by pharmacological increases in cholinergic stimulation. Fear-related modulations of face processing driven by amygdala signals may implicate not only fusiform cortex, but also earlier visual areas in occipital cortex (e.g., V1) and other distant regions involved in social, cognitive, or somatic responses (e.g., superior temporal sulcus, cingulate, or parietal areas). In the temporal domain, evoked-potentials show a widespread time-course of emotional face perception, with some increases in the amplitude of responses recorded over both occipital and frontal regions for fearful relative to neutral faces (as well as in the amygdala and orbitofrontal cortex, when using intracranial recordings), but with different latencies post-stimulus onset. Early emotional responses may arise around 120ms, prior to a full visual categorization stage indexed by the face-selective N170 component, possibly reflecting rapid emotion processing based on crude visual cues in faces. Other electrical components arise at later latencies and involve more sustained activities, probably generated in associative or supramodal brain areas, and resulting in part from the modulatory signals received from amygdala. Altogether, these fMRI and ERP results demonstrate that emotion face perception is a complex process that cannot be related to a single neural event taking place in a single brain regions, but rather implicates an interactive network with distributed activity in time and space. Moreover, although traditional models in cognitive neuropsychology have often considered that facial expression and facial identity are processed along two separate pathways, evidence from fMRI and ERPs suggests instead that emotional processing can strongly affect brain systems responsible for face recognition and memory. The functional implications of these interactions remain to be fully explored, but might play an important role in the normal development of face processing skills and in some neuropsychiatric disorders.
Visual cortex activation in bilingual blind individuals during use of native and second language.	Recent neuroimaging and transcranial magnetic stimulation studies indicate that the occipital cortex of congenitally blind humans is functionally relevant for nonvisual tasks. There are suggestions that the underlying cortical reorganization is restricted by a critical period. These results were based on comparison between early and late blind groups, thereby facing the problem of great variability among individuals within each group. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we studied bilingual congenitally blind individuals during use of 2 languages: one acquired early (Hebrew), the other later in life (English, at approximately 10 years). The subjects listened to chimeric words consisting of superimposed Hebrew and English nouns. They were instructed to either covertly generate a verb to the heard noun or repeat the noun, in either Hebrew or English. Lateralized activation during verb generation (vs. repeat) was found in classical language areas, in congruence with previous studies in sighted subjects. Critically, in our study, the blind participants typically also had robust left lateralized occipital differential activation during verb generation (vs. repeat), in both languages. This suggests that the critical period for plasticity persists beyond 10 years or that the visual cortex of the blind might be engaged in abstract levels of language processing, common to the 2 languages.
A neural model of surface perception: lightness, anchoring, and filling-in.	A neural model is proposed of how the visual system processes natural images under variable illumination conditions to generate surface lightness percepts. Previous models clarify how the brain can compute relative contrast. The anchored Filling-In Lightness Model (aFILM) clarifies how the brain 'anchors' lightness percepts to determine an absolute lightness scale that uses the full dynamic range of neurons. The model quantitatively simulates lightness anchoring properties (Articulation, Insulation, Configuration, Area Effect) and other lightness data (discounting the illuminant, the double brilliant illusion, lightness constancy and contrast, Mondrian contrast constancy, Craik-O'Brien-Cornsweet illusion). The model clarifies how retinal processing stages achieve light adaptation and spatial contrast adaptation, and how cortical processing stages fill-in surface lightness using long-range horizontal connections that are gated by boundary signals. The new filling-in mechanism runs 1000 times faster than diffusion mechanisms of previous filling-in models.
Dissociation of color and figure-ground effects in the watercolor illusion.	Two phenomena can be observed in the watercolor illusion: illusory color spreading and figure-ground organization. We performed experiments to determine whether the figure-ground effect is a consequence of the color illusion or due to an independent mechanism. Subjects were tested with displays consisting of six adjacent compartments--three that generated the illusion alternating with three that served for comparison. In a first set of experiments, the illusory color was measured by finding the matching physical color in the alternate compartments. Figureness (probability of 'figure' responses, 2AFC) of the watercolor compartments was then determined with and without the matching color in the alternate compartments. The color match reduced figureness, but did not abolish it. There was a range of colors in which the watercolor compartments dominated as figures over the alternate compartments although the latter appeared more saturated in color. In another experiment, the effect of tinting alternate compartments was measured in displays without watercolor illusion. Figureness increased with color contrast, but its value at the equivalent contrast fell short of the figureness value obtained for the watercolor pattern. Thus, in both experiments, figureness produced by the watercolor pattern was stronger than expected from the color effect, suggesting independent mechanisms. Considering the neurophysiology, we propose that the color illusion follows from the principles of representation of surface color in the visual cortex, while the figure-ground effect results from two mechanisms of border ownership assignment, one that is sensitive to asymmetric shape of edge profile, the other to consistency of color borders.
Local field potential in cortical area MT: stimulus tuning and behavioral correlations.	Low-frequency electrical signals like those that compose the local field potential (LFP) can be detected at substantial distances from their point of origin within the brain. It is thus unclear how useful the LFP might be for assessing local function, for example, on the spatial scale of cortical columns. We addressed this problem by comparing speed and direction tuning of LFPs obtained from middle temporal area MT with the tuning of multiunit (MU) activity recorded simultaneously. We found that the LFP can be well tuned for speed and direction and is highly correlated with that of MU activity, particularly for frequencies at and above the gamma band. LFP tuning is substantially poorer for lower frequencies, although tuning for direction extends to lower frequencies than does tuning for speed. Our data suggest that LFP signals at and above the gamma band reflect neural processing on the spatial scale of cortical columns, within a few hundred micrometers of the electrode tip. Consistent with this notion, we also found that frequencies at and above the gamma band measured during a speed discrimination task exhibit an effect known as "choice probability," which reveals a particularly close relationship between neural activity and behavioral choices. In the LFP, this signature of the perceptual choice comprises a shift in relative power from low-frequency bands (alpha and beta) to the gamma band. It remains to be determined how LFP choice probability, which is a temporal signature, is related to conventional choice probability effects observed in spike rates.
Wide-field retinotopy defines human cortical visual area v6.	The retinotopic organization of a newly identified visual area near the midline in the dorsalmost part of the human parieto-occipital sulcus was mapped using high-field functional magnetic resonance imaging, cortical surface-based analysis, and wide-field retinotopic stimulation. This area was found in all 34 subjects that were mapped. It represents the contralateral visual hemifield in both hemispheres of all subjects, with upper fields located anterior and medial to areas V2/V3, and lower fields medial and slightly anterior to areas V3/V3A. It contains a representation of the center of gaze distinct from V3A, a large representation of the visual periphery, and a mirror-image representation of the visual field. Based on similarity in position, visuotopic organization, and relationship with the neighboring extrastriate visual areas, we suggest it might be the human homolog of macaque area V6, and perhaps of area M (medial) or DM (dorsomedial) of New World primates.
In vivo two-photon imaging reveals a role of arc in enhancing orientation specificity in visual cortex.	Cortical representations of visual information are modified by an animal's visual experience. To investigate the mechanisms in mice, we replaced the coding part of the neural activity-regulated immediate early gene Arc with a GFP gene and repeatedly monitored visual experience-induced GFP expression in adult primary visual cortex by in vivo two-photon microscopy. In Arc-positive GFP heterozygous mice, the pattern of GFP-positive cells exhibited orientation specificity. Daily presentations of the same stimulus led to the reactivation of a progressively smaller population with greater reactivation reliability. This adaptation process was not affected by the lack of Arc in GFP homozygous mice. However, the number of GFP-positive cells with low orientation specificity was greater, and the average spike tuning curve was broader in the adult homozygous compared to heterozygous or wild-type mice. These results suggest a physiological function of Arc in enhancing the overall orientation specificity of visual cortical neurons during the post-eye-opening life of an animal.
Instructive effect of visual experience in mouse visual cortex.	We describe a form of experience-dependent response enhancement in the visual cortex of awake mice. Repeated presentations of grating stimuli of a single orientation result in a persistent enhancement of responses evoked by the test stimulus. Response potentiation is specific to the orientation of the test stimulus, develops gradually over the course of several training sessions, and occurs in both juvenile and adult mice. The stimulus-selective response potentiation (SRP) can mask deprivation-induced response depression in adult mice. SRP requires NMDA receptor activation and is prevented by viral delivery of a peptide that interferes with AMPA receptor trafficking. SRP may reveal the mechanisms involved in certain forms of perceptual learning.
The role of spatial phase in texture segmentation and contour integration.	It has been recently argued that the visual system possesses just two phase "detector" mechanisms, namely, +cosine and -cosine (P. C. Huang, F. A. Kingdom, & R. F. Hess, 2006). This suggests rather limited access to the rich distribution of receptive field phase that neurophysiologists tell us are represented in the different response profiles of striate simple cells. Whereas that study has suggested that striate receptive field phase is not directly available to perception for the detection/discrimination of localized stimuli, here we investigate whether such information might be used in more integrative striate or extrastriate functions such as texture segregation or contour integration. Specifically, given that simple cells have different local absolute phase response profiles, we ask whether a network of simple cells with similar phase preferences interact in such a way as to extract textures, contours, or both based on phase alone. Two novel texture segmentation experiments and one contour integration experiment were carried out with the intention of providing an answer to the question of how useful is local absolute spatial phase for texture segmentation and contour integration. The results support the possibility of two phase mechanisms (+/-cosine) for global texture segmentation, as well as for contour integration, when the elements that make up a given contour are orthogonal to contour paths.
Neural basis of embodiment: distinct contributions of temporoparietal junction and extrastriate body area.	Embodiment, the sense of being localized within one's physical body, is a fundamental aspect of the self. Recently, researchers have started to show that self and body processing require distinct brain mechanisms, suggesting two posterior brain regions as key loci: the temporoparietal junction (TPJ), which is involved in self processing and multisensory integration of body-related information; and the extrastriate body area (EBA), which responds selectively to human bodies and body parts. Here we used evoked potential mapping and a distributed linear inverse solution to show that activations in EBA and TPJ code differentially for embodiment and self location, because the location and timing of brain activation depended on whether mental imagery is performed with mentally embodied (EBA) or disembodied (TPJ) self location. In a second experiment, we showed that only EBA activation, related to embodied self location, but not TPJ activation, related to disembodied self location, was modified by the subjects' body position during task performance (supine or sitting). This suggests that embodied self location and actual body location share neural mechanisms. Collectively, these data show that distributed brain activity at the EBA and TPJ as well as their timing are crucial for the coding of the self as embodied and as spatially situated within the human body.
Concurrent TMS-fMRI and psychophysics reveal frontal influences on human retinotopic visual cortex.	Regions in human frontal cortex may have modulatory top-down influences on retinotopic visual cortex, but to date neuroimaging methods have only been able to provide indirect evidence for such functional interactions between remote but interconnected brain regions. Here we combined transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) with concurrent functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), plus psychophysics, to show that stimulation of the right human frontal eye-field (FEF) produced a characteristic topographic pattern of activity changes in retinotopic visual areas V1-V4, with functional consequences for visual perception.
Fast numerical methods for simulating large-scale integrate-and-fire neuronal networks.	We discuss numerical methods for simulating large-scale, integrate-and-fire (I&F) neuronal networks. Important elements in our numerical methods are (i) a neurophysiologically inspired integrating factor which casts the solution as a numerically tractable integral equation, and allows us to obtain stable and accurate individual neuronal trajectories (i.e., voltage and conductance time-courses) even when the I&F neuronal equations are stiff, such as in strongly fluctuating, high-conductance states; (ii) an iterated process of spike-spike corrections within groups of strongly coupled neurons to account for spike-spike interactions within a single large numerical time-step; and (iii) a clustering procedure of firing events in the network to take advantage of localized architectures, such as spatial scales of strong local interactions, which are often present in large-scale computational models-for example, those of the primary visual cortex. (We note that the spike-spike corrections in our methods are more involved than the correction of single neuron spike-time via a polynomial interpolation as in the modified Runge-Kutta methods commonly used in simulations of I&F neuronal networks.) Our methods can evolve networks with relatively strong local interactions in an asymptotically optimal way such that each neuron fires approximately once in [Formula: see text] operations, where N is the number of neurons in the system. We note that quantifications used in computational modeling are often statistical, since measurements in a real experiment to characterize physiological systems are typically statistical, such as firing rate, interspike interval distributions, and spike-triggered voltage distributions. We emphasize that it takes much less computational effort to resolve statistical properties of certain I&F neuronal networks than to fully resolve trajectories of each and every neuron within the system. For networks operating in realistic dynamical regimes, such as strongly fluctuating, high-conductance states, our methods are designed to achieve statistical accuracy when very large time-steps are used. Moreover, our methods can also achieve trajectory-wise accuracy when small time-steps are used.
Microstimulation of V1 delays visually guided saccades: a parametric evaluation of delay fields.	Electrical microstimulation of macaque striate cortex (area V1) delays the execution of saccadic eye movements made to a visual target placed in the receptive field of the stimulated neurons. The region of visual space within which saccades are delayed is called a delay field. We examined the effects of changing the parameters of stimulation and target size on the size of a delay field. Rhesus monkeys were required to generate a saccadic eye movement to a punctate and white visual target presented within or outside the receptive field of the neurons under study. On 50% of trials, a train of stimulation consisting of 0.2-ms anode-first pulses was delivered to the neurons before the onset of the visual target. Stimulations were performed in the operculum at 0.9-2.0 mm below the cortical surface. It was found that increases in current (50-100 microA), pulse frequency (100-300 Hz), or train duration (75-300 ms) increased the size of a delay field and increases in target size (0.1 degrees -0.2 degrees of visual angle) decreased the size of a delay field. Delay fields varied in size between 0.1 and 0.6 degrees of visual angle. These results are related to the properties of phosphenes induced by electrical stimulation of V1 in humans and compared to the interference effects observed following transcranial magnetic stimulation of human V1.
Duration-dependent FMRI adaptation and distributed viewer-centered face representation in human visual cortex.	Two functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) face viewpoint adaptation experiments were conducted to investigate whether fMRI adaptation in high-level visual cortex depends on the duration of adaptation and how different views of a face are represented in the human visual system. We found adaptation effects in multiple face-selective areas, which suggest a distributed, viewer-centered representation of faces in the human visual system. However, the nature of the adaptation effects was dependent on the length of adaptation. With long adaptation durations, face-selective areas along the hierarchy of the visual system gradually exhibited viewpoint-tuned adaptation. As the angular difference between the adapter and test stimulus increased, the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal evoked by the test stimulus gradually increased as a function of the amount of 3-dimensional (3D) rotation. With short adaptation durations, however, face-selective areas in the ventral pathway, including the lateral occipital cortex and right fusiform area, exhibited viewpoint-sensitive adaptation. These areas showed an increase in the BOLD signal with a 3D rotation, but this signal increase was independent of the amount of rotation. Further, the right superior temporal sulcus showed little or very weak viewpoint adaptation with short adaptation durations. Our findings suggest that long- and short-term fMRI adaptations may reflect selective properties of different neuronal mechanisms.
Neural bases of stereopsis across visual field of the alert macaque monkey.	Left and right retinal images of an object seen by the 2 eyes can occupy slightly disparate horizontal and/or vertical locations. The role of horizontal disparity (HD) in stereoscopic vision is well established, but the functional contribution of vertical disparity (VD) remains unclear. Various psychophysical studies have shown that HD and VD are used differently by the visual system depending on their location in the visual field, whether near the center of gaze or more peripheral. We show this horizontal/vertical distinction at the cellular level in monkey primary visual cortex (area V1). The range of VD encoding is reduced in central but not in the peripheral representation of the visual field. Moreover, neurons respond selectively to particular combinations of both types of disparities depending on the coded orientation as predicted by the disparity energy model. The preferred orientations of neurons near the fovea present a vertical bias that is well suited for stereopsis based on HD selectivity alone. In the periphery, instead, preferred orientations are radially biased, which allows a peripheral detector to convey the same depth signal based on either HD or VD. Such an organization has functional implications in both the perceptual and oculomotor domains.
Strength of figure-ground activity in monkey primary visual cortex predicts saccadic reaction time in a delayed detection task.	When and where are decisions made? In the visual system a saccade, which is a fast shift of gaze toward a target in the visual scene, is the behavioral outcome of a decision. Current neurophysiological data and reaction time models show that saccadic reaction times are determined by a build-up of activity in motor-related structures, such as the frontal eye fields. These structures depend on the sensory evidence of the stimulus. Here we use a delayed figure-ground detection task to show that late modulated activity in the visual cortex (V1) predicts saccadic reaction time. This predictive activity is part of the process of figure-ground segregation and is specific for the saccade target location. These observations indicate that sensory signals are directly involved in the decision of when and where to look.
Neural correlates of coherent audiovisual motion perception.	Real-life moving objects are often detected by multisensory cues. We investigated the cortical activity associated with coherent visual motion perception in the presence of a stationary or moving auditory noise source using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Twelve subjects judged episodes of 5-s random-dot motion containing either no (0%) or abundant (16%) coherent direction information. Auditory noise was presented with the displayed visual motion that was moving in phase, was moving out-of-phase, or was stationary. Subjects judged whether visual coherent motion was present, and if so, whether the auditory noise source was moving in phase, was moving out-of-phase, or was not moving. Performance was greatest for a moving sound source that was in phase with the visual coherent dot motion compared with when it was in antiphase. A random-effects analysis revealed that auditory motion activated extended regions in both cerebral hemispheres in the superior temporal gyrus (STG), with a right-hemispheric preponderance. Combined audiovisual motion led to activation clusters in the STG, the supramarginal gyrus, the superior parietal lobule, and the cerebellum. The size of the activated regions was substantially larger than that evoked by either visual or auditory motion alone. The congruent audiovisual motion evoked the most extensive activation pattern, exhibiting several exclusively activated subregions.
Training-induced cortical representation of a hemianopic hemifield.	Patients with homonymous hemianopia often have some residual sensitivity for visual stimuli in their blind hemifield. Previous imaging studies suggest an important role for extrastriate cortical areas in such residual vision, but results of training to improve vision in patients with hemianopia are conflicting.
Excitability of human motor and visual cortex before, during, and after hyperventilation.	In humans, hyperventilation (HV) has various effects on systemic physiology and, in particular, on neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. However, it is far from clear how the effects of HV are mediated at the cortical level. In this study we investigated the effects of HV-induced hypocapnia on primary motor (M1) and visual cortex (V1) excitability. We used 1) motor threshold (MT) and phosphene threshold (PT) and 2) stimulus-response (S-R) curves (i.e., recruitment curves) as measures of excitability. In the motor cortex, we additionally investigated 3) the intrinsic inhibitory and facilitatory neuronal circuits using a short-interval paired-pulse paradigm. Measurements were performed before, during, and after 10 min of HV (resulting in a minimum end-tidal Pco(2) of 15 Torr). HV significantly increased motor-evoked potential (MEP) amplitudes, particularly at lower transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) intensities. Paired-pulse stimulation indicated that HV decreases intracortical inhibition (ICI) without changing intracortical facilitation. The results suggestthat low Pco(2) levels modulate, in particular, the intrinsic neuronal circuits of ICI, which are largely mediated by neurons containing gamma-aminobutyric acid. Modulation of MT probably resulted from alterations of Na(+) channel conductances. A significant decrease of PT, together with higher intensity of phosphenes at low stimulus intensities, furthermore suggested that HV acts on the excitability of M1 and V1 in a comparable fashion. This finding implies that HV also affects other brain structures besides the corticospinal motor system. The further exploration of these physiological mechanisms may contribute to the understanding of the various HV-related clinical phenomenona.
Spatially asymmetric response to moving patterns in the visual cortex: re-examining the local sign hypothesis.	One of the most fundamental functions of the visual system is to code the positions of objects. Most studies, especially those using fMRI, widely assume that the location of the peak retinotopic activity generated in the visual cortex by an object is the position assigned to that object-this is a simplified version of the local sign hypothesis. Here, we employed a novel technique to compare the pattern of responses to moving and stationary objects and found that the local sign hypothesis is false. By spatially correlating populations of voxel responses to different moving and stationary stimuli in different positions, we recovered the modulation transfer function for moving patterns. The results show that the pattern of responses to a moving object is best correlated with the response to a static object that is located behind the moving one. The pattern of responses across the visual cortex was able to distinguish object positions separated by about 0.25 deg visual angle, equivalent to approximately 0.25 mm cortical distance. We also found that the position assigned to a pattern is not simply dictated by the peak activity-the shape of the luminance envelope and the resulting shape of the population response, including the shape and skew in the response at the edges of the pattern, influences where the visual cortex assigns the object's position. Therefore, visually coded position is not conveyed by the peak but by the overall profile of activity.
Visual evoked potentials modulation during direct current cortical polarization.	Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) at low intensity induces changes in cortical excitability that persist after polarization ends. The effects of anodal and cathodal polarization remain controversial. We studied changes in visual evoked potentials (VEPs) during and after anodal and cathodal tDCS by applying, in healthy volunteers, 1 mA polarization through surface electrodes placed over the occipital scalp (polarizing) and over the anterior or posterior neck-base (reference). We compared tDCS applied at two durations, 3 and 10 min and both polarities. We assessed VEP-P100 latencies and amplitudes in response to pattern-reversal checkerboard stimuli before, during, and after polarization. Anodal polarization reduced VEP-P100 amplitude whereas cathodal polarization significantly increased amplitude but both polarities left latency statistically unchanged. These changes persisted for some minutes after polarization ended depending on the duration of tDCS and on the contrast level of visual stimuli. tDCS-induced changes in VEPs seem to depend on the duration of polarization and type of visual stimuli used. The effects induced on visual cortical neurones during polarization are more consistent than the aftereffects. Studying these changes during polarization may therefore improve our understanding of these phenomena.
Spreading photoparoxysmal EEG response is associated with an abnormal cortical excitability pattern.	Photosensitivity or photoparoxysmal response (PPR) is a highly heritable electroencephalographic trait characterized by an abnormal cortical response to intermittent photic stimulation (IPS). In PPR-positive individuals, IPS induces spikes, spike-waves or intermittent slow waves. The PPR may be restricted to posterior visual areas (i.e. local PPR with occipital spikes only) or spread to anterior non-visual cortical regions (i.e. PPR with propagation). The mechanisms underlying the PPR and causing its spread remain to be clarified. In unmedicated PPR-positive individuals and PPR-negative control participants without any history of previous seizures, we used focal transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to investigate the excitability of the visual or primary motor cortex (M1). In the first experiment [18 healthy control subjects (i.e. without PPR in electroencephalography: 6 females, mean age 26.5 +/- 7.34 years) and 17 healthy participants with PPR (7 females, mean age 25.18 +/- 12.2 years) were studied], occipital TMS was used to elicit phosphenes or to suppress the visual perception of letter trigrams. PPR-positive individuals with propagation had lower phosphene thresholds and steeper stimulus-response curves than individuals without PPR or with occipital spikes only. Occipital TMS also induced a stronger suppression of visual perception in PPR-positive subjects with propagation relative to subjects without PPR or with occipital spikes. In the second experiment, we applied TMS over the right M1 without concurrent IPS and measured the motor threshold, the stimulus response curve, and the duration of the cortical silent period (CSP) in PPR positive individuals with propagation and in PPR-negative control participants [15 right-handed healthy subjects without PPR (3 males, mean age 17.7 +/- 3.6 years) and 14 right-handed healthy individuals showing a PPR with propagation (3 males, mean age 17.4 +/- 3.9 years)]. PPR-positive individuals showed no changes in these excitability measures relative to the PPR-negative control participants. We also measured the modifiability of the CSP by continuous IPS at a frequency of 18 or 50 Hz. While IPS reduced the duration of the CSP in PPR-negative control subjects, IPS had no effect on the duration of the CSP in PPR-positive individuals. Our results provide first time evidence that the propagation of the PPR is associated with increased excitability of the occipital but not the motor cortex. The stronger inhibitory effect of TMS on visual perception and the failure of IPS to shorten the CSP in PPR-positive participants may possibly reflect adaptive changes that prevent the provocation of seizures during the PPR.
Invariant global motion recognition in the dorsal visual system: a unifying theory.	The motion of an object (such as a wheel rotating) is seen as consistent independent of its position and size on the retina. Neurons in higher cortical visual areas respond to these global motion stimuli invariantly, but neurons in early cortical areas with small receptive fields cannot represent this motion, not only because of the aperture problem but also because they do not have invariant representations. In a unifying hypothesis with the design of the ventral cortical visual system, we propose that the dorsal visual system uses a hierarchical feedforward network architecture (V1, V2, MT, MSTd, parietal cortex) with training of the connections with a short-term memory trace associative synaptic modification rule to capture what is invariant at each stage. Simulations show that the proposal is computationally feasible, in that invariant representations of the motion flow fields produced by objects self-organize in the later layers of the architecture. The model produces invariant representations of the motion flow fields produced by global in-plane motion of an object, in-plane rotational motion, looming versus receding of the object, and object-based rotation about a principal axis. Thus, the dorsal and ventral visual systems may share some similar computational principles.
Spatial and temporal dependencies of cross-orientation suppression in human vision.	A well-known property of orientation-tuned neurons in the visual cortex is that they are suppressed by the superposition of an orthogonal mask. This phenomenon has been explained in terms of physiological constraints (synaptic depression), engineering solutions for components with poor dynamic range (contrast normalization) and fundamental coding strategies for natural images (redundancy reduction). A common but often tacit assumption is that the suppressive process is equally potent at different spatial and temporal scales of analysis. To determine whether it is so, we measured psychophysical cross-orientation masking (XOM) functions for flickering horizontal Gabor stimuli over wide ranges of spatio-temporal frequency and contrast. We found that orthogonal masks raised contrast detection thresholds substantially at low spatial frequencies and high temporal frequencies (high speeds), and that small and unexpected levels of facilitation were evident elsewhere. The data were well fit by a functional model of contrast gain control, where (i) the weight of suppression increased with the ratio of temporal to spatial frequency and (ii) the weight of facilitatory modulation was the same for all conditions, but outcompeted by suppression at higher contrasts. These results (i) provide new constraints for models of primary visual cortex, (ii) associate XOM and facilitation with the transient magno- and sustained parvostreams, respectively, and (iii) reconcile earlier conflicting psychophysical reports on XOM.
Representation of body identity and body actions in extrastriate body area and ventral premotor cortex.	Although inherently linked, body form and body action may be represented in separate neural substrates. Using repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation in healthy individuals, we show that interference with the extrastriate body area impairs the discrimination of bodily forms, and interference with the ventral premotor cortex impairs the discrimination of bodily actions. This double dissociation suggests that whereas extrastriate body area mainly processes actors' body identity, premotor cortex is crucial for visual discriminations of actions.
A neural basis for inference in perceptual ambiguity.	When looking at ambiguous visual stimuli, the observer experiences frequent spontaneous transitions between two competing percepts while physical stimulation remains unchanged. Despite recent advances in understanding the neural processes underlying such perceptual rivalry, a key question has remained unresolved: Does perceptual rivalry result merely from local bistability of neural activity patterns in sensory stimulus representations, or do higher-order areas play a causal role by shifting inference and, thus, initiating perceptual changes? We used functional MRI to measure brain activity while human observers reported successive spontaneous changes in perceived direction for an ambiguous apparent motion stimulus. In a control condition, the individual sequences of spontaneous perceptual switches during bistability were replayed by using a disambiguated version of the stimulus. Greater activations during spontaneous compared with stimulus-driven switches were observed in inferior frontal cortex bilaterally. Subsequent chronometric analyses of event-related signal time courses showed that, relative to activations in motion-sensitive extrastriate visual cortex, right inferior frontal cortex activation occurred earlier during spontaneous than during stimulus-driven perceptual changes. The temporal precedence of right inferior frontal activations suggests that this region participates in initiating spontaneous switches in perception during constant physical stimulation. Our findings can thus be seen as a signature of when and where the brain "makes up its mind" about competing perceptual interpretations of a given sensory input pattern.
Recognizing the visual stimulus from neuronal discharges.	In this article, experiments are reviewed that have a bearing on the question of how 'meaning' is related to neuronal activity in the mammalian cortex; there is evidence that the excitation time pattern plays a major role. We suggest that 'objective meaning' is related to spatiotemporal activity distributions, whereas spike counts indicate the importance of the contribution of a given neurone to that meaning. Such a 'dual-coding' principle allows the visual system to emphasize selected activity components by central messages. The feature to be noted is that the objective meaning remains largely unaltered.
Opening the grey box.	The single neurone has been the guiding light for generations of neuroscientists. Now there are signs from experimental and theoretical work on the neocortex that we are on the threshold of a revolution in which the hegemony of the single neurone will be replaced by much more circuit-oriented concepts. We consider here why traditional views of the significance of single neurones are fading in power, and consider the problem of deciding on the form of a new order.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging investigation of overlapping lateral occipitotemporal activations using multi-voxel pattern analysis.	Several functional areas are proposed to reside in human lateral occipitotemporal cortex, including the motion-selective human homolog of macaque area MT (hMT), object-form-selective lateral occipital complex (LO), and body-selective extrastriate body area (EBA). Indeed, several functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have reported significant activation overlap among these regions. The standard interpretation of this overlap would be that the common areas of activation reflect engagement of common neural systems. Alternatively, motion, object form, and body form may be processed independently within this general region. To distinguish these possibilities, we first analyzed the lateral occipitotemporal responses to motion, objects, bodies, and body parts with whole-brain group-average analyses and within-subjects functional region of interest (ROI) analyses. The activations elicited by these stimuli, each relative to a matched control, overlapped substantially in the group analysis. When hMT, LO, and EBA were defined functionally within subjects, each ROI in each hemisphere (except right-hemisphere hMT) showed significant selectivity for motion, intact objects, bodies, and body parts, although only the peak voxel of each region was tested. In contrast, multi-voxel analyses of variations in selectivity patterns revealed that visual motion, object form, and the form of the human body elicited three relatively independent patterns of fMRI activity in lateral occipitotemporal cortex. Multi-voxel approaches, in contrast to other methods, can reveal the functional significance of overlapping fMRI activity in extrastriate cortex and, by extension, elsewhere in the brain.
Model-based analysis of rapid event-related functional near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) data: a parametric validation study.	To validate the usefulness of a model-based analysis approach according to the general linear model (GLM) for functional near-infrared spectroscopy (fNIRS) data, a rapid event-related paradigm with an unpredictable stimulus sequence was applied to 15 healthy subjects. A parametric design was chosen wherein four differently graded contrasts of a flickering checkerboard were presented, allowing directed hypotheses about the rank order of the evoked hemodynamic response amplitudes. The results indicate the validity of amplitude estimation by three main findings (a) the GLM approach for fNIRS data is capable to identify human brain activation in the visual cortex with inter-stimulus intervals of 4-9 s (6.5 s average) whereas in non-visual areas no systematic activation was detectable; (b) the different contrast level intensities lead to the hypothesized rank order of the GLM amplitude parameters: visual cortex activation evoked by highest contrast>moderate contrast>lowest contrast>no stimulation; (c) analysis of null-events (no stimulation) did not produce any significant activation in the visual cortex or in other brain areas. We conclude that a model-based GLM approach delivers valid fNIRS amplitude estimations and enables the analysis of rapid event-related fNIRS data series, which is highly relevant in particular for cognitive fNIRS studies.
Seeing the forest without losing sight of the trees: details are processed despite reversal insensitivity in structure from motion.	Presenting a subject with two random-dot flow fields produces a persuasive 3D percept of a rotating cylinder whose perceived direction of rotation is bi-stable and reverses spontaneously. When real reversals are introduced subjects rarely perceive them. It is possible that although these reversals are consciously ignored, they are registered and available to the visual system for potential later use. We tested this prediction by comparing the number of spontaneously perceived reversals with and without real reversals. We found that although the actual reversals were usually not perceived, they nonetheless increased the number of spontaneous flips. The visual system apparently prefers to retain global structure rather than perceive a motion change of every element in the stimulus. However, it does not completely ignore the changes and incorporates them into other emerging interpretations. These findings argue against the fatigue hypothesis of spontaneous reversals which would predict a decrease in the number of reversals and can be interpreted as supporting the information-processing view by noting that due to the real reversals, the visual system continues to accrue data that argues against the current representation and facilitates switching to the rival representation.
Coding the presence of visual objects in a recurrent neural network of visual cortex.	Before we can recognize a visual object, our visual system has to segregate it from its background. This requires a fast mechanism for establishing the presence and location of objects independently of their identity. Recently, border-ownership neurons were recorded in monkey visual cortex which might be involved in this task [Zhou, H., Friedmann, H., von der Heydt, R., 2000. Coding of border ownership in monkey visual cortex. J. Neurosci. 20 (17), 6594-6611]. In order to explain the basic mechanisms required for fast coding of object presence, we have developed a neural network model of visual cortex consisting of three stages. Feed-forward and lateral connections support coding of Gestalt properties, including similarity, good continuation, and convexity. Neurons of the highest area respond to the presence of an object and encode its position, invariant of its form. Feedback connections to the lowest area facilitate orientation detectors activated by contours belonging to potential objects, and thus generate the experimentally observed border-ownership property. This feedback control acts fast and significantly improves the figure-ground segregation required for the consecutive task of object recognition.
Hue maps in primate striate cortex.	The macaque striate cortex (V1) contains neurons that respond preferentially to various hues. The properties of these hue-selective neurons have been studied extensively at the single-unit level, but it is unclear how stimulus hue is represented by the distribution of activity across neuronal populations in V1. Here we use the intrinsic optical signal to image V1 responses to spatially uniform stimuli of various hues. We found that (1) each of these stimuli activates an array of patches in the supragranular layers of the parafoveal V1; (2) the patches activated by different hues overlapped partially; 3) the peak locations of these patches were determined by stimulus hue. The peaks associated with various hues form well-separated clusters, in which nearby peaks represent perceptually similar hues. Each cluster represents a full gamut of hue in a small cortical area ( approximately 160 microm long). The hue order is preserved within each peak cluster, but the clusters have various geometrical shapes. These clusters were co-localized with regions that responded preferentially to chromatic gratings compared with achromatic ones. Our results suggest that V1 contains an array of hue maps, in which the hue of a stimulus is represented by the location of the peak response to the stimulus. The orderly, organized hue maps in V1, together with the recently discovered hue maps in the extrastriate cortical area V2, are likely to play an important role in hue perception in primates.
Stimuli of varying spatial scale induce gamma activity with distinct temporal characteristics in human visual cortex.	Gamma activity to stationary grating stimuli was studied non-invasively using MEG recordings in humans. Using a spatial filtering technique, we localized gamma activity to primary visual cortex. We tested the hypothesis that spatial frequency properties of visual stimuli may be related to the temporal frequency characteristics of the associated cortical responses. We devised a method to assess temporal frequency differences between stimulus-related responses that typically exhibit complex spectral shapes. We applied this methodology to either single-trial (induced) or time-averaged (evoked) responses in four frequency ranges (0-40, 20-60, 40-80 and 60-100 Hz) and two time windows (either the entire duration of stimulus presentation or the first second following stimulus onset). Our results suggest that stimuli of varying spatial frequency induce responses that exhibit significantly different temporal frequency characteristics. These effects were particularly accentuated for induced responses in the classical gamma frequency band (20-60 Hz) analyzed over the entire duration of stimulus presentation. Strikingly, examining the first second of the responses following stimulus onset resulted in significant loss in stimulus specificity, suggesting that late signal components contain functionally relevant information. These findings advocate a functional role of gamma activity in sensory representation. We suggest that stimulus specific frequency characteristics of MEG signals can be mapped to processes of neuronal synchronization within the framework of coupled dynamical systems.
Psychophysical evidence for two routes to suppression before binocular summation of signals in human vision.	Visual mechanisms in primary visual cortex are suppressed by the superposition of gratings perpendicular to their preferred orientations. A clear picture of this process is needed to (i) inform functional architecture of image-processing models, (ii) identify the pathways available to support binocular rivalry, and (iii) generally advance our understanding of early vision. Here we use monoptic sine-wave gratings and cross-orientation masking (XOM) to reveal two cross-oriented suppressive pathways in humans, both of which occur before full binocular summation of signals. One is a within-eye (ipsiocular) pathway that is spatially broadband, immune to contrast adaptation and has a suppressive weight that tends to decrease with stimulus duration. The other pathway operates between the eyes (interocular), is spatially tuned, desensitizes with contrast adaptation and has a suppressive weight that increases with stimulus duration. When cross-oriented masks are presented to both eyes, masking is enhanced or diminished for conditions in which either ipsiocular or interocular pathways dominate masking, respectively. We propose that ipsiocular suppression precedes the influence of interocular suppression and tentatively associate the two effects with the lateral geniculate nucleus (or retina) and the visual cortex respectively. The interocular route is a good candidate for the initial pathway involved in binocular rivalry and predicts that interocular cross-orientation suppression should be found in cortical cells with predominantly ipsiocular drive.
Attentional load modulates responses of human primary visual cortex to invisible stimuli.	Visual neuroscience has long sought to determine the extent to which stimulus-evoked activity in visual cortex depends on attention and awareness. Some influential theories of consciousness maintain that the allocation of attention is restricted to conscious representations [1, 2]. However, in the load theory of attention [3], competition between task-relevant and task-irrelevant stimuli for limited-capacity attention does not depend on conscious perception of the irrelevant stimuli. The critical test is whether the level of attentional load in a relevant task would determine unconscious neural processing of invisible stimuli. Human participants were scanned with high-field fMRI while they performed a foveal task of low or high attentional load. Irrelevant, invisible monocular stimuli were simultaneously presented peripherally and were continuously suppressed by a flashing mask in the other eye [4]. Attentional load in the foveal task strongly modulated retinotopic activity evoked in primary visual cortex (V1) by the invisible stimuli. Contrary to traditional views [1, 2, 5, 6], we found that availability of attentional capacity determines neural representations related to unconscious processing of continuously suppressed stimuli in human primary visual cortex. Spillover of attention to cortical representations of invisible stimuli (under low load) cannot be a sufficient condition for their awareness.
Parallel processing of motion vision]	Several neuropsychological studies have reported dissociation between motion vision and object vision. One patient with motion blindness had a bilateral MT/V5 lesion and could see objects, but could not see the motion of the objects (Zihl et al, 1983). By contrast, some blindsight patients with primary visual cortex lesions cannot see objects but can see their movement (e.g. Riddoch, 1917). These results imply that movement vision and form vision rely on independent mechanisms. However one patient with motion blindness had controversial symptoms concerning motion vision. She could not perceive the movement of objects, although she could walk without colliding with obstacles and could catch incoming objects. It has also been reported that patients with a bilateral parietal lesion had well-preserved primary motion vision, but had problems walking and catching a ball (Vaina, 1998). Therefore, motion for vision and motion for action might have independent mechanisms. Such dissociation has also been noted in patients with Blint syndrome. Some patients behave like a blind person but can walk and catch a ball, while other patients bump into obstacles while walking. These results indicate that the neural bases of motion vision are distinct from those of form vision and that there are subdivisions of motion vision.
The transducer model for contrast detection and discrimination: formal relations, implications, and an empirical test.	The transducer function mu for contrast perception describes the nonlinear mapping of stimulus contrast onto an internal response. Under a signal detection theory approach, the transducer model of contrast perception states that the internal response elicited by a stimulus of contrast c is a random variable with mean mu(c). Using this approach, we derive the formal relations between the transducer function, the threshold-versus-contrast (TvC) function, and the psychometric functions for contrast detection and discrimination in 2AFC tasks. We show that the mathematical form of the TvC function is determined only by mu, and that the psychometric functions for detection and discrimination have a common mathematical form with common parameters emanating from, and only from, the transducer function mu and the form of the distribution of the internal responses. We discuss the theoretical and practical implications of these relations, which have bearings on the tenability of certain mathematical forms for the psychometric function and on the suitability of empirical approaches to model validation. We also present the results of a comprehensive test of these relations using two alternative forms of the transducer model: a three-parameter version that renders logistic psychometric functions and a five-parameter version using Foley's variant of the Naka-Rushton equation as transducer function. Our results support the validity of the formal relations implied by the general transducer model, and the two versions that were contrasted account for our data equally well.
Cortical pooling algorithms for judging global motion direction.	Physiological studies suggest that decision networks read from the neural representation in the middle temporal area to determine the perceived direction of visual motion, whereas psychophysical studies tend to characterize motion perception in terms of the statistical properties of stimuli. To reconcile these different approaches, we examined whether estimating the central tendency of the physical direction of global motion was a better indicator of perceived direction than algorithms (e.g., maximum likelihood) that read from directionally tuned mechanisms near the end of the motion pathway. The task of human observers was to discriminate the global direction of random dot kinematograms composed of asymmetrical distributions of local directions with distinct measures of central tendency. None of the statistical measures of image direction central tendency provided consistently accurate predictions of perceived global motion direction. However, regardless of the local composition of motion directions, a maximum-likelihood decoder produced global motion estimates commensurate with the psychophysical data. Our results suggest that mechanism-based, read-out algorithms offer a more accurate and robust guide to human motion perception than any stimulus-based, statistical estimate of central tendency.
Delaying forelimb responses by microstimulation of macaque V1.	Electrical microstimulation of macaque V1 has previously been shown to delay saccadic eye movements made to a punctate visual target placed in the receptive field of the stimulated neurons. It remains unclear whether this delay effect is specific to the oculomotor system or whether the effect can be demonstrated in the skeletomotor system as well. To address this question, a rhesus monkey was trained to depress a left or right lever with its respective hand in response to a visual target presented in the left or right hemifield. On 50% of trials, a 100 ms train of stimulation consisting of 100 microA, 0.2-ms anode-first pulses was delivered to the neurons before the onset of the visual target. Stimulation of V1 delayed the execution of the lever response when the visual target was positioned within the receptive field of the stimulated neurons. We suggest that the delay effect induced by microstimulation of V1 is largely due to a disruption of the visual signal as it is transmitted along the geniculostriate pathway.
The machinery of colour vision.	Some fundamental principles of colour vision, deduced from perceptual studies, have been understood for a long time. Physiological studies have confirmed the existence of three classes of cone photoreceptors, and of colour-opponent neurons that compare the signals from cones, but modern work has drawn attention to unexpected complexities of early organization: the proportions of cones of different types vary widely among individuals, without great effect on colour vision; the arrangement of different types of cones in the mosaic seems to be random, making it hard to optimize the connections to colour-opponent mechanisms; and new forms of colour-opponent mechanisms have recently been discovered. At a higher level, in the primary visual cortex, recent studies have revealed a simpler organization than had earlier been supposed, and in some respects have made it easier to reconcile physiological and perceptual findings.
Temporal dynamics of the attentional spotlight: neuronal correlates of attentional capture and inhibition of return in early visual cortex.	A stimulus that suddenly appears in the corner of the eye inevitably captures our attention, and this in turn leads to faster detection of a second stimulus presented at the same position shortly thereafter. After about 250 msec, however, this effect reverses and the second stimulus is detected faster when it appears far away from the first. Here, we report a potential physiological correlate of this time-dependent attentional facilitation and inhibition. We measured the activity in visual cortex representations of the second (target) stimulus' location depending on the stimulus onset asynchrony (SOA) and spatial distance that separated the target from the preceding cue stimulus. At an SOA of 100 msec, the target yielded larger responses when it was presented near to than far away from the cue. At an SOA of 850 msec, however, the response to the target was more pronounced when it appeared far away from the cue. Our data show how the neural substrate of visual orienting is guided by immediately preceding sensory experience and how a fast-reacting brain system modulates sensory processing by briefly increasing and subsequently decreasing responsiveness in parts of the visual cortex. We propose these activity modulations as the neural correlate of the sequence of perceptual facilitation and inhibition after attentional capture.
Neural correlates of the contents of visual awareness in humans.	The immediacy and directness of our subjective visual experience belies the complexity of the neural mechanisms involved, which remain incompletely understood. This review focuses on how the subjective contents of human visual awareness are encoded in neural activity. Empirical evidence to date suggests that no single brain area is both necessary and sufficient for consciousness. Instead, necessary and sufficient conditions appear to involve both activation of a distributed representation of the visual scene in primary visual cortex and ventral visual areas, plus parietal and frontal activity. The key empirical focus is now on characterizing qualitative differences in the type of neural activity in these areas underlying conscious and unconscious processing. To this end, recent progress in developing novel approaches to accurately decoding the contents of consciousness from brief samples of neural activity show great promise.
Neural adaptation reveals state-dependent effects of transcranial magnetic stimulation.	Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is now widely used as a 'virtual' lesion paradigm to investigate behavioural functions, but the mechanisms through which it influences neural processing are unclear. To understand the differential effects of TMS on spatially overlapping populations of neurons we manipulated the relative activity levels of visual neurons by adapting subjects to a range of visual stimuli. By applying TMS to the visual cortex representing the central visual field we have shown in two experiments that the behavioural and perceptual effects of TMS depend on the state of adaptation of the neural population stimulated by TMS. Specifically, we have demonstrated that within the stimulated area TMS perceptually facilitates the attributes encoded by the less active neural population. We have demonstrated the generality of this principle for both suprathreshold and subthreshold TMS as well as for colour and orientation-contingent colour using both subjective reports and psychophsyical measures. These findings can explain how TMS disrupts cognitive functions and therefore have implications for all studies which use TMS to disrupt behaviour.
Optimizing electrode positions and analysis strategies for multifocal VEP recordings by ROC analysis.	The multifocal visual evoked potential (mfVEP) is an important tool to test visual pathway function. The aim of this study was to optimize electrode positions in mfVEP recordings. For analysis we applied a receiver operating characteristic (ROC), a method that inherently corrects for multiple testing. We found that a combination of two perpendicular derivations-both straddling the inion-was the most effective recording setup. Adding more than two derivations did not significantly increase the sensitivity. Thus optimal mfVEP detection can be achieved with a fairly simple recording setup which may facilitate mfVEP recordings in basic research and clinical routine.
The emergence of semantic categorization in early visual processing: ERP indices of animal vs. artifact recognition.	Neuroimaging and neuropsychological literature show functional dissociations in brain activity during processing of stimuli belonging to different semantic categories (e.g., animals, tools, faces, places), but little information is available about the time course of object perceptual categorization. The aim of the study was to provide information about the timing of processing stimuli from different semantic domains, without using verbal or naming paradigms, in order to observe the emergence of non-linguistic conceptual knowledge in the ventral stream visual pathway. Event related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in 18 healthy right-handed individuals as they performed a perceptual categorization task on 672 pairs of images of animals and man-made objects (i.e., artifacts).
Unbiased measures of transmitted information and channel capacity from multivariate neuronal data.	Two measures from information theory, transmitted information and channel capacity, can quantify the ability of neurons to convey stimulus-dependent information. These measures are calculated using probability functions estimated from stimulus-response data. However, these estimates are biased by response quantization, noise, and small sample sizes. Improved estimators are developed in this paper that depend on both an estimate of the sample-size bias and the noise in the data.
Early cross-modal interactions in auditory and visual cortex underlie a sound-induced visual illusion.	When a single flash of light is presented interposed between two brief auditory stimuli separated by 60-100 ms, subjects typically report perceiving two flashes (Shams et al., 2000, 2002). We investigated the timing and localization of the cortical processes that underlie this illusory flash effect in 34 subjects by means of 64-channel recordings of event-related potentials (ERPs). A difference ERP calculated to isolate neural activity associated with the illusory second flash revealed an early modulation of visual cortex activity at 30-60 ms after the second sound, which was larger in amplitude in subjects who saw the illusory flash more frequently. These subjects also showed this early modulation in response to other combinations of auditory and visual stimuli, thus pointing to consistent individual differences in the neural connectivity that underlies cross-modal integration. The overall pattern of cortical activity associated with the cross-modally induced illusory flash, however, differed markedly from that evoked by a real second flash. A trial-by-trial analysis showed that short-latency ERP activity localized to auditory cortex and polymodal cortex of the temporal lobe, concurrent with gamma bursts in visual cortex, were associated with perception of the double-flash illusion. These results provide evidence that perception of the illusory second flash is based on a very rapid dynamic interplay between auditory and visual cortical areas that is triggered by the second sound.
Two expressions of "surround suppression" in V1 that arise independent of cortical mechanisms of suppression.	The preferred stimulus size of a V1 neuron decreases with increases in stimulus contrast. It has been supposed that stimulus contrast is the primary determinant of such spatial summation in V1 cells, though the extent to which it depends on other stimulus attributes such as orientation and spatial frequency remains untested. We investigated this by recording from single cells in V1 of anaesthetized cats and monkeys, measuring size-tuning curves for high-contrast drifting gratings of optimal spatial configuration, and comparing these curves with those obtained at lower contrast or at sub-optimal orientations or spatial frequencies. For drifting gratings of optimal spatial configuration, lower contrasts produced less surround suppression resulting in increases in preferred size. High contrast gratings of sub-optimal spatial configuration produced more surround suppression than optimal low-contrast gratings, and as much or more surround suppression than optimal high-contrast gratings. For sub-optimal spatial frequencies, preferred size was similar to that for the optimal high-contrast stimulus, whereas for sub-optimal orientations, preferred size was smaller than that for the optimal high-contrast stimulus. These results indicate that, while contrast is an important determinant of spatial summation in V1, it is not the only determinant. Simulation of these experiments on a cortical receptive field modeled as a Gabor revealed that the small preferred sizes observed for non-preferred stimuli could result simply from linear filtering by the classical receptive field. Further simulations show that surround suppression in retinal ganglion cells and LGN cells can be propagated to neurons in V1, though certain properties of the surround seen in cortex indicate that it is not solely inherited from earlier stages of processing.
Developing velocity sensitivity in a model neuron by local synaptic plasticity.	Sensor neurons, like those in the visual cortex, display specific functional properties, e.g., tuning for the orientation, direction and velocity of a moving stimulus. It is still unclear how these properties arise from the processing of the inputs which converge at a given cell. Specifically, little is known how such properties can develop by ways of synaptic plasticity. In this study we investigate the hypothesis that velocity sensitivity can develop at a neuron from different types of synaptic plasticity at different dendritic sub-structures. Specifically we are implementing spike-timing dependent plasticity at one dendritic branch and conventional long-term potentiation at another branch, both driven by dendritic spikes triggered by moving inputs. In the first part of the study, we show how velocity sensitivity can arise from such a spatially localized difference in the plasticity. In the second part we show how this scenario is augmented by the interaction between dendritic spikes and back-propagating spikes also at different dendritic branches. Recent theoretical (Saudargiene et al. in Neural Comput 16:595-626, 2004) and experimental (Froemke et al. in Nature 434:221-225, 2005) results on spatially localized plasticity suggest that such processes may play a major role in determining how synapses will change depending on their site. The current study suggests that such mechanisms could be used to develop the functional specificities of a neuron.
A primer on motion visual evoked potentials.	Motion visual evoked potentials (motion VEPs) have been used since the late 1960s to investigate the properties of human visual motion processing, and continue to be a popular tool with a possible future in clinical diagnosis. This review first provides a synopsis of the characteristics of motion VEPs and then summarizes important methodological aspects. A subsequent overview illustrates how motion VEPs have been applied to study basic functions of human motion processing and shows perspectives for their use as a diagnostic tool.
Spontaneous eyeblink rate predicts the strength of visuomotor binding.	The primate cortex represents the external world in a distributed way, which requires for a mechanism that integrates the features of a processed event. Animal and patients studies suggest that feature binding in the visual cortex is under muscarinic-cholinergic control, whereas visuomotor integration is driven by the dopaminergic system. Consistent with this picture, we present evidence that the binding of visual and action features is modulated by spontaneous eyeblink rate (EBR), which is a functional marker of central dopaminergic function. Remarkably, the impact of EBR was restricted to the task-relevant visuomotor binding, suggesting that dopamine increased the maintenance of task-relevant information.
Amplitude of low frequency fluctuation within visual areas revealed by resting-state functional MRI.	Most studies of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) have applied the temporal correlation in the time courses to investigate the functional connectivity between brain regions. Alternatively, the power of low frequency fluctuation (LFF) may also be used as a biomarker to assess spontaneous activity. The purpose of the current study is to evaluate whether the amplitude of the LFF (ALFF) relates to cerebral physiological states. Ten healthy subjects underwent four resting-state fMRI scanning sessions, two for eyes-open (EO) and two for eyes-closed (EC) conditions, with two sets of parameters (TR=400 ms and 2 s, respectively). After data preprocessing, ALFF was obtained by calculating the square root of the power spectrum in the frequency range of 0.01-0.08 Hz. Our results showed that the ALFF in EO was significantly higher than that in EC (P<0.05, corrected) in the bilateral visual cortices. Furthermore, the ALFF in EO was significantly reduced in the right paracentral lobule (PCL) than in EC (P<0.05, corrected). Region of interest (ROI) analysis showed that the ALFF differences between EO and EC were consistent for each subject. In contrast, no significant ALFF differences were found between EO and EC (P<0.381) in the posterior cingulate cortex. All these results agree well with previous studies comparing EO and EC states. Our finding of the distinct ALFF difference between EO and EC in the visual cortex implies that the ALFF may be a novel biomarker for physiological states of the brain.
L/M speed-matching ratio predicts reading in children.	Many behavioral studies have found impaired perception of dynamic visual stimuli in dyslexia and several neuroimaging studies have found reduced activation of the human motion area MT+ in dyslexia. These results are often interpreted as a magnocellular (MC) deficit in dyslexia. It has also been claimed that colored filters can help dyslexics to read. One defining feature of the MC-pathway is a greater weight for L-cone input than M-cone input, and at most very weak S-cone input. We measured the subjective speed matches between L-, M-, and S-cone isolating stimuli in good and poor readers.
Beyond the edges of a view: boundary extension in human scene-selective visual cortex.	To allow perception of a continuous world, cortical mechanisms extrapolate missing information with highly constrained predictions about the environment just beyond the edges of a view. Here, we report functional magnetic resonance imaging evidence for extrapolation of scene layout information beyond what was physically presented, an illusion known as boundary extension. Consistent with behavioral reports, we observed boundary extension for scene-selective attenuation in the parahippocampal place area (PPA) and retrosplenial cortex (RSC), but no such extrapolation of object representations in the lateral occipital complex (LOC). These results demonstrate that scene layout representations are extrapolated beyond the confines of the perceptual input. Such extrapolation may facilitate perception of a continuous world from discontinuous views.
Novel and distinct operational principles of intralaminar thalamic neurons and their striatal projections.	Neurons of the intralaminar thalamus, including central lateral (CL) and parafascicular (Pf) nuclei, innervate the cortex and striatum and are important for cognitive, sensory, and motor processes. We tested the hypothesis that CL and Pf neurons provide functionally distinct inputs to the striatum. We performed recordings of single CL and Pf neurons in anesthetized rats and, after juxtacellularly labeling the neurons, their somatodendritic features and synaptic connections were characterized. All CL neurons (n = 31) discharged classic low-threshold Ca2+ spike bursts during cortical slow-wave activity in vivo. In contrast, Pf neurons (n = 52) rarely fired such bursts, but instead discharged groups of spikes at relatively low frequencies. The activity of CL and Pf neurons was often temporally coupled to cortical slow oscillations. Identified CL neurons possessed archetypal "bushy" dendrites and preferentially established synapses with dendritic spines (91% of synapses) of striatal projection neurons. Pf neurons possessed "reticular-like" dendrites, and, on average, preferentially established synapses with dendritic shafts (63%) in striatum, although connectivity was markedly heterogeneous across neurons. Two of the six Pf neurons studied exclusively targeted dendritic shafts, whereas another neuron almost exclusively (97%) targeted spines. The remaining three neurons preferentially targeted dendritic shafts (53-70%). Thus, the fundamental properties of CL and Pf neurons differ (the latter do not express the typical operational principles of thalamic relay neurons), and they provide different temporally patterned inputs to distinct striatal targets. This mechanistic diversity likely underpins the transmission of specific and discrete information from intralaminar thalamic nuclei to striatal and cortical targets.
Sensitivity to direction and orientation of random dot stereobars in the monkey visual cortex.	We are able to judge the direction of movement and orientation of objects because they have contrast-defined edges. However, we are also able to perceive the orientation and direction of movement of stereobars made of random dot stereograms in the absence of contrast-defined edges. We recorded 207 disparity-sensitive cells from visual areas V1 and V2 of two Macaca mulatta monkeys while performing an attentive fixation task. Luminance defined bars and random-dot stereo-defined bars were used to assess direction and orientation selectivity of these cells. Orientation and direction preference for luminance bars and for stereobars showed a statistically significant relationship (r=0.83, P<0.01 for direction; r=0.63, P<0.01 for orientation). However, disparity-sensitive cells from these areas seem to be more sensitive to luminance than to stereobars regarding orientation and direction of movement. Similar results were obtained when the two areas were considered separately. Our results show that cells in areas V1 and V2 of the monkey visual cortex are able to detect the orientation and direction of movement of stereobars in a manner similar to those of luminance-defined bars. This finding is relevant because to detect the direction and orientation of stereobars a comparison between left and right eye inputs is required.
Modulation of neuronal responses in macaque primary visual cortex in a memory task.	The primary visual cortex, a relatively early station in the visual pathway, has long been considered mainly as a site of basic feature detection but evidence is emerging that is consistent with the existence of feedback influences from higher cortical areas. We show that in a delayed match-to-sample memory task, where the monkey needs to remember both the visual pattern and its location, there is significant modulation of neuronal activity in the primary visual cortex suggestive of a feedback signal. Responses to identical patterns are remarkably different depending upon their place in the memory task. These modulatory influences are significantly less when the same visual patterns are shown during a simple fixation task, where these stimuli can be ignored and not attended to. The results indicate that neural processing specific to attentional and mnemonic functions can involve even primary sensory areas.
A computational model for the overall pattern of ocular dominance.	In layer IV of the primary visual cortex, in both the macaque monkey and the cat, geniculocortical terminals representing the two eyes are segregated into alternating zones known as ocular dominance bands. Viewed tangentially, in the monkey these bands take the form of a series of branching parallel stripes that run roughly perpendicular to the border of striate cortex. In the cat, the overall ocular dominance pattern consists of irregularly branching, beaded bands that exhibit no predominant orientation. If the striking differences in the appearance of these two patterns reflect important differences in the basic rules governing cortical ocular dominance, then this poses a problem for attempts to formulate general principles of visual cortical organization. However, it has been suggested that the differences in the appearance of the ocular dominance patterns in these two species could result simply from known differences in the boundary conditions of their geniculocortical pathways. This article describes the formulation and testing of a single computational model that accurately predicts the quite dissimilar ocular dominance patterns in cats and monkeys. This model also generalizes to predict the different ocular dominance patterns observed in young and old three-eyed frogs, supporting the notion that the overall pattern of ocular dominance is governed by a common set of rules. The significance of these results is discussed in terms of previous models, which have focused largely on local processes underlying the development of ocular dominance segregation. Although the present model is not a developmental one, it does shed some light on potential mechanisms for establishing retinotopy in striate cortex and on possible developmental relationships between the geniculostriate pathway and intrinsic modularity of the striate cortex.
Is binocular fusion of "cortical yellow" an illusion, contingent upon abstraction of coherent sensory information from the two eyes?	This research on the binocular fusion of phenomenal yellow, given red-filtered flashes of light in one eye and green-filtered flashes of light in the other, directly compared the effects of wider-bandwidth and narrow-bandwidth filtering. 20 male college students with normal stereopsis, Mage = 19.3 yr., SD = 2.2, were tested for the binocular perception of flashing yellow sensations given wider-bandwidth versus narrow-bandwidth filtering of light flashes which, monocularly, were experienced as red sensations in one eye and as green sensations in the other. When 3 wide-bandwidth tests for binocular yellow fusion were alternated with 3 narrow-bandwidth tests, simultaneous flashes of red-filtered light in one eye and green-filtered light in the other were binocularly perceived as yellowish on 25% of the wide-bandwidth tests (SD = 40%)--as yellow on 8% of the tests, orange on 12% of the tests, yellow-green on 5% of the tests-and were binocularly perceived as yellowish on 0% of the narrow-bandwidth tests. When wider-bandwidth and narrow-bandwidth testing were separated spatially and conducted contemporaneously, the red-filtered flashes in one eye and green-filtered flashes in the other were binocularly experienced as yellowish sensations by 80% of all participants under wider-bandwidth conditions--as yellow by 55%, orange by 10%, yellow-green by 15%--and as yellowish sensations by 0% of the participants under narrow-bandwidth conditions.
Differential effects of unilateral optic tract transections and visual cortical lesions upon a pattern discrimination in albino rats with removal of one eye at birth.	Previously we have demonstrated that adult rats with one eye removed at birth (OEB) relearn a black-white discrimination faster than control rats monocularly enucleated at maturity (OET), when relearning is conducted after lesions of the visual cortex contralateral to the remaining eye. This faster relearning phenomenon is considered to be one behavioral expression of the functioning of the expanded uncrossed visual pathways resulting from monocular at birth. The present study was concerned with the question of whether the same phenomenon can be observed in the discrimination between alternating black and white stripes oriented horizontally and vertically. Two experiments were carried out. In the first experiment, which is a replication of one of our previous studies, relearning was conducted after the visual cortical lesions contralateral to the remaining eye. The results were consistent with those of the previous one in which neither OEBs nor OETs were found able to relearn the discrimination. In the second experiment, relearning was conducted after transections of the optic tract contralateral to the remaining eye. It was shown that under this condition both OEBs and OETs could relearn the discrimination, and furthermore, that OEBs restored the habit faster than OETs. Possible mechanisms underlying the difference in the results from the two experiments were discussed.
Characteristics of activation in the parietal areas of the cortex in humans in different types of visual attention.	The state of cortical activation in the parietal and temporal areas was assessed using evoked potentials (EP) during the tasks of selection of lateralized visual stimuli requiring three different types of attention: to stimulus shape, to stimulus position, and to both. Studies in 15 young, healthy subjects involved recording of EP in six cortical leads: P3, P4, T3, T4, T5, and T6, with analysis of the endogenous EP components CNV, N1, P3, and the EP complex [N1-P3] (according to standard terminology). Changes in EP components in response to the attended and non-attended stimulus features were compared. Differences between them were assessed using the index of selectivity of attention to one or another feature of the visual stimuli. In the parietal area, selectivity was seen in conditions of attention to stimulus position and attention to stimulus shape. In conditions of simultaneous attention, the indexes of selectivity were essentially equal to the sum of the indexes of selectivity of attention to shape and position. The most marked endogenous EP components (CNV, N1, and P3) in visual selection were seen in the parietal areas, with a greater gradient of increased activation of the parietal areas of the cortex as the need for attention increased, along with a lower threshold for the action of attention, and anticipatory development of the P3 wave in the parietal area as compared with the temporal area. These results suggest that the parietal cortex has priority in the visual attention system and that the magnocellular (M) pathway forms the most important visual input to the dorsal parietal area of the neocortex.
Neuroprotective effect of transcorneal electrical stimulation on the acute phase of optic nerve injury.	Traumatic optic neuropathy often induces a loss of vision that proceeds rapidly within several hours, together with retinal ganglion cell death, in a much slower time course. Electrical stimulation has previously been shown to rescue injured retinal ganglion cells from cell death. The present study tests whether transcorneal electrical stimulation could preserve visual function after an optic nerve crush.
Electrophysiological investigation of the texture discrimination mechanisms]	In electrophysiological and psychophysical experiments, we investigated mechanisms of the visual system underlying local and global texture processing. Textures included rectangular matrixes composed of Gabor patches (sine wave grating windowed by a Gaussian envelope). Orientation of each grating varied from 0 to 165 degrees with the step of 15 degrees. Matrixes differed by the amount of Gabor patches with vertical or horizontal orientation. The observers' task was to discriminate the dominant orientation. The advantage of such stimuli involved a possibility to calculate global statistics of the textures, which we considered as the difference between whole amount of vertical and horizontal orientations in the stimulus irrespective of their location. The local statistics was calculated as relative amount of spatially organized nearby gratings (i. e. collinear contours). The subjects' accuracy was low in discriminating less organized textures and gradually improved with the amount of vertically of horizontally oriented Gabor patches, while the reaction time decreased. Visual evoked potentials (VEPs) recorded from occipital lobes revealed different dependencies of their components' magnitude on the amount of equally oriented gratings. Amplitude of the late positive component P3 with latency 400 ms directly depended on the texture discriminability, and N2 wave with latency 180 ms had an S-like dependence. Opposite to that, the magnitude of P2 wave with latency 260 ms was maximal in response to less organized textures and gradually decreased with the amount of equally oriented gratings. The dependencies received were compared with the textures' statistics. Data analysis allowed us to suppose that, in the conditions of our experimental paradigm, two mechanisms were involved in discrimination of the textures--the local and the global processing. We believe that by recording VEPs one can separately investigate activity of these two processes.
Perception in action.	For long time perception and action have been considered as separated and peripheral processes, devoid of any intrinsic cognitive value. Over the last years, however, this view has been challenged by several neurophysiological data. The aim of this paper is to provide an overview of some recent studies on the cortical visual and motor systems. In particular, we'll focus on the discovery (in the inferior parietal lobe and in the premotor cortex) of two different kinds of sensorimotor neurons that not only are involved in the motor control of actions, but also play an essential role in object categorizing and in action understanding. We'll argue that the functional properties of these kinds of neurons show the limits and abstractness of any strict dichotomy between perception and action, and pave the way to a requalification of some relevant philosophical perspectives on these issues.
Spatial frequency modulates visual cortical response to temporal frequency variation of visual stimuli: an fMRI study.	The brain response to temporal frequency (TF) variation has already been reported, but with no study for different TF with respect to various spatial frequencies (SF). Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was performed with a 1.5 Tesla General Electric system in 14 volunteers during square-wave reversal checkerboard visual stimulation with different temporal frequencies of 4, 6, 8 and 10 Hz in two states of low SF of 0.4 and high SF of 8 cpd (cycles/degree). The activation map was created using the data obtained from the block-designed fMRI study. Voxels whose Z value was above a threshold of 3.0, at a significance level P = 0.05, were considered activated. The results demonstrated that the percentage BOLD signal change in response to different TFs was the maximum value at 6 Hz for a high SF of 8 cpd, whereas it was the maximum at TF of 8 Hz for a low SF of 0.4 cpd. The results of this study agree with the results of animal invasive neurophysiological studies showing spatial and temporal frequency selectivity of neurons in visual cortical areas. These results can be useful for vision therapy (such as the treatment of amblyopia) and selecting a visual task in fMRI studies.
Neural responses elicited by electrical stimulation of the retina.	To study electrically elicited responses (EERs) that are produced by epiretinal stimulation of normal and degenerated retina.
The effect of angioscotomas on map structure in primary visual cortex.	When blood vessels occlude the photoreceptor layer in the retina, they cast shadows onto the photoreceptors, creating angioscotomas (regions of the visual field to which that eye is blind). Remarkably, Adams and Horton (2002) have recently shown that it is sometimes possible to observe representations of these angioscotomas anatomically in the primary visual cortices of squirrel monkeys. However, there is substantial variability in the degree and form of these representations. The source of this variability is difficult to determine experimentally, because experimental studies are unavoidably limited by small sample size. In addition, experimental studies cannot compare the map structure that would develop with and without an angioscotoma. Here, we investigate these phenomena computationally using feature-mapping models of visual cortical development, which are not subject to the same limitations. These models suggest that the primary source of variability in angioscotoma representation is the precise timing of the onset of visual experience relative to the time course of ocular dominance column segregation. Furthermore, the models predict that angioscotomas could compete for control of local column layout with other influences such as cortical shape but that they have a small effect on the structure of orientation preference maps.
Negative BOLD fMRI response in the visual cortex carries precise stimulus-specific information.	Sustained positive BOLD (blood oxygen level-dependent) activity is employed extensively in functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies as evidence for task or stimulus-specific neural responses. However, the presence of sustained negative BOLD activity (i.e., sustained responses that are lower than the fixation baseline) has remained more difficult to interpret. Some studies suggest that it results from local "blood stealing" wherein blood is diverted to neurally active regions without a concomitant change of neural activity in the negative BOLD regions. However, other evidence suggests that negative BOLD is a result of local neural suppression. In both cases, regions of negative BOLD response are usually interpreted as carrying relatively little, if any, stimulus-specific information (hence the predominant reliance on positive BOLD activity in fMRI). Here we show that the negative BOLD response resulting from visual stimulation can carry high information content that is stimulus-specific. Using a general linear model (GLM), we contrasted standard flickering stimuli to a fixation baseline and found regions of the visual cortex that displayed a sustained negative BOLD response, consistent with several previous studies. Within these negative BOLD regions, we compared patterns of fMRI activity generated by flickering Gabors that were systematically shifted in position. As the Gabors were shifted further from each other, the correlation in the spatial pattern of activity across a population of voxels (such as the population of V1 voxels that displayed a negative BOLD response) decreased significantly. Despite the fact that the BOLD signal was significantly negative (lower than fixation baseline), these regions were able to discriminate objects separated by less than 0.5 deg (at approximately 10 deg eccentricity). The results suggest that meaningful, stimulus-specific processing occurs even in regions that display a strong negative BOLD response.
EEG alpha-wave in the visual cortex: check of the hypothesis of the scanning process.	In computer-controlled experiments the recognition by seven human observers of tachistoscopically presented geometrical figures of different size (from 0.5 to 9 angular degrees) or of different eccentricity (from 3 up to 16 degrees) in the visual field was studied. The onset of figures presentation coincided with different phases of the EEG alpha-wave in the occipital region. According to the criterion of an increase of recognition probability, an inverse dependence was revealed between the distance of the figures contour from the gaze (up to 9 degrees) and the succession of phases of alpha-wave. Small or more centrally localized figures were significantly better recognized when presented at relatively earlier phases of EEG alpha-wave, while bigger or relatively more peripherally localized figures - at earlier phases. At 16 degrees form the gaze no reliable dependence of recognition on the alpha-wave phases was revealed. The data obtained are discussed in connection with Pitts and McCulloch (1947) hypothesis about a periodical (with alpha-wave frequency) scanning wave spreading over the visual cortex. Possibility of a synchronous excitability fluctuation in the whole visual cortex with alpha-rhythm frequency that imitated the spreading process is also discussed. Data obtained and simulation of the mentioned possibilities confirmed the first explanation and thus confirmed Pitt's and McCulloch's ideas on the EEG alpha-wave as a reflection of the scanning process in the visual cortex.
Estimation of cortical dipole sources by equivalent dipole layer imaging and independent component analysis.	We explored suitable estimation method for equivalent dipole sources in the brain. In a previous study, we solved an inverse problem that estimated an equivalent dipole-layer distribution from the scalp electroencephalogram by a spatio-temporal inverse filters constructed with parametric projection filter. In the present study, we estimated equivalent dipole sources from dipole layer distributions. Moreover, to identify the number, position, and moment of equivalent dipole sources, we separated each dipole layer distribution using independent component analysis (ICA). The performance of the proposed estimation method was evaluated by computer simulation and human experimental studies in an inhomogeneous three-concentric sphere head model. The present simulation results indicated that the equivalent dipole sources was accurately estimated by ICA and dipole imaging. We also applied the proposed method to human visual evoked potential.
Analysing specificity of a bipolar EEG measurement.	The objective in bioelectric measurements such as ECG and EEG is to register the signal arising from sources in the region of interest. It is also desired that signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of a measurement is high. The sensitivity of an ideal measurement should focus on and be greater on the target areas in comparison to other areas of the volume conductor. Previously the half-sensitivity volume (HSV) has been applied to describe how focused the measurement is. In this paper we introduce a concept of the half-sensitivity ratio (HSR) which describes how well the sensitivity is concentrated in HSV compared to other source regions i.e. how specific the measurement is to the sources in HSV. Further we may have different region of interests (ROI) to which the measurements are wanted to be specific. Then the concept is called region of interest sensitivity ratio (ROISR). We present here an application of the HSR in analysing sensitivity distributions of bioelectric measurements. We studied the effects of interelectrode distance and the scalp/skull/brain resistivity ratio on the HSR of a bipolar EEG measurement with a three-layer spherical head model. The results indicate that when the focus of interest is on cortical activity more specified and concentrated sensitivity distributions are achieved with smaller interelectrode distances. Further a preliminary measurement with visual evoked potentials provides evidence of the relationship between HSR and SNR of a measurement.
Influence of sinusoidally modulated visual stimuli at extremely low frequency range on the human EEG activity.	The purpose of this study was to investigate whether sinusoidally modulated visual stimuli at extremely low frequencies (ELF) of 50, 16.66, 13, 10, 8.33 and 4Hz could influence the changes in EEG activity in 33 human subjects. An improved design of visual stimulator system has addressed an issue of electrical interference from electrical signals driven by LED arrays onto simultaneously recorded EEG. A comparison between 1 and 3-Way ANOVA was performed in order to evaluate whether visual stimuli at ELFs could influence the EEG in humans to compliment the currently active medical research in seasonal affective disorder (SAD) and photic driving. The results revealed that under evaluation of 1 and 3-Way repeated-measures ANOVA tests, the Theta, Alpha2 and Gamma EEG bands exhibited a common significant difference between ELF visual stimuli.
Influence of moving sight by turning over frequency.	In late years, f-MRI (functional magnetic resonance imaging) are used for analysis of a visual function. In case of the study for a visual function, the checker flag pattern consists of white square and black square is usually used for sight stimulation. In sight stimulation using this pattern, a color of square (black and white) changes alternately at constant frequency. It is usually called pattern reversal stimulation. When this pattern is used for stimulation, the subject sometimes feels movement for the shown stimulation pattern. We think that this sensation of movement relates to spatial frequency (that means the size of a square of a stimulation pattern) of a stimulation image and a turning over frequency of a stimulation pattern strongly. Our objectives of this study are the following. 1) Clarify a part of the brain that is a cause of this moving sensation. 2) Investigate the relationship among the magnitude of this sensation, spatial frequency and turning over frequency. Three normal adults were used for the subject. This time, turning over frequency was changed to 8 Hz by 1 Hz step under fixed spatial frequency. Under this condition, we examined the state of activation of a V1 area. In addition, we examined whether BOLD effect varied with a change of a stimulation color. In this experiment, we used blue and yellow color instead of black and white for stimulation, and the reaction was examined.
Localization of FFA using SSVEP-based binocular rivalry.	In binocular rivalry, a subject views two incongruent stimuli through each eye but consciously perceives only one stimulus at a time, with a switch in perceptual dominance every a few seconds. To locate the fusiform face area (FFA) which is a face-selective region, thirteen subjects are recorded with a 64-channel electroencephalograph while experiencing binocular rivalry. A face image flickering at one frequency is presented to one eye and a non-face image flickering at the same frequency is presented to the other eye. Steady state evoked potential (SSVEP) at the frequency is used as tags for the two stimuli. This paper uses an algorithm called standardized shrinking LORETA-FOCUSS (SSLOFO) to reconstruct face-selective sources from the EEG data. The sources are selected by comparing signal strength at the stimulus frequency during face dominance and face suppression. The results demonstrate that the face-selective region identified in this paper is consistent with FFA, as has been confirmed to be activated about twice as strongly in fMRI experiments when people view faces as when they view other kinds of objects. The present study also suggests that the method has the potential advantage of investigating neural correlates.
Spatial frequency modulates the human visual cortical response to temporal frequency variation: an fMRI study.	The brain response to temporal frequencies (TF) has been already reported, but with no study for different TFs with respect to various spatial frequencies (SF). Functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) experiments were performed by 1.5 Tesla General Electric-system in 14 volunteers (9 males and 5 females, range 19-26 years) during square-wave reversal checkerboard visual stimulation with different temporal frequencies of 4, 6, 8 and 10 Hz in two states of low SF of 0.5 and high SF of 8 cpd (cycles/degree). The activation map was created using the data obtained from the block designed fMRI study. Pixels whose correlation coefficient value was above a threshold of 0.33, in significant level P<0.01 were considered activated. The average percentage BOLD (blood oxygenation level dependent) signal change for all activated pixels within the occipital lobe, multiplied by the total number of activated pixels within the occipital lobe, was used as the criterion for the strength of the fMRI signal at each state of TF&SF. The results demonstrated that the strength of the fMRI signal in response to different TFs was maximum in 6Hz for high SF of 8 cpd, while it was maximum at TF of 8Hz for low SF of 0.5 cpd. The results of this study agree with the results of animal invasive neurophysiological studies showing spatial and temporal frequency selectivity of neurons in visual cortical areas. These results can be useful for vision therapy (such as the treatment of Amblyopia) and selecting visual task in fMRI studies.
Probing fast neuronal interaction using fMRI.	The paired-stimuli paradigms were used to study cross-modal neural interactions between the visual and auditory systems in human. It was found that the primary visual cortex was actively involved in the 'illusory double-flash' phenomenon. The similar paradigms were used to study the influence of MR scanner noise on human visual activities from the perspective of neural interaction. The results reveal that the gradient acoustic noise does interfere with the neural behavior in human visual cortex.
Using single-trial EEG to estimate the timing of target onset during rapid serial visual presentation.	The timing of a behavioral response, such as a button press in reaction to a visual stimulus, is highly variable across trials. In this paper we describe a methodology for single-trial analysis of electroencephalography (EEG) which can be used to reduce the error in the estimation of the timing of the behavioral response and thus reduce the error in estimating the onset time of the stimulus. We consider a rapid serial visual presentation (RSVP) paradigm consisting of concatenated video clips and where subjects are instructed to respond when they see a predefined target. We show that a linear discriminator, with inputs distributed across sensors and time and chosen via an information theoretic feature selection criterion, can be used in conjunction with the response to yield a lower error estimate of the onset time of the target stimulus compared to the response time. We compare our results to response time and previous EEG approaches using fixed windows in time, showing that our method has the lowest estimation error. We discuss potential applications, specifically with respect to cortically-coupled computer vision based triage of large image databases.
Source estimation of contrast-related perception based on frequency-tagged binocular rivalry.	Binocular rivalry is a visual perceptual phenomenon which occurs when two incongruent stimuli are viewed by a subject through each eye, but only one of them is perceived at a time, with a switch in perception every few seconds, which reflects the alternation of perceptual dominance. To investigate the correlation between contrast-related perception and neural activities, the subjects' EEGs were recorded with a 64-channel electroencephalograph while experiencing binocular rivalry. A higher contrast grating flickering at one frequency was presented to one eye while a lower contrast grating flickering at a slightly different frequency was presented to the other eye. Steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEP) at the flickering frequencies were used to ;tag' the two stimuli. An improved inverse algorithm termed SSLOFO (standardized shrinking LORETA-FOCUSS) was used to solve this inverse problem, which acquires the spatial distribution of neural active sources from the EEG data. The result shows that activity in primary visual cortex (V1) increased when subjects perceived the higher contrast pattern and decreased when they perceived the lower contrast pattern. This paper presents a method based on EEG to investigate neural correlates of consciousness in real-time, which provides an alternative method to achieve comparable results to those based on fMRI methods.
A comparison of neural feature extraction methods for brain-machine interfaces.	Brain-machine interfaces (BMIs) have shown promise in augmenting people's control of their surroundings, especially for those suffering from paralysis due to neurological disorders. This paper describes an experiment using the rodent model to explore information available in neural signals recorded from chronically implanted intracortical microelectrode arrays. In offline experiments, a number of neural feature extraction methods were utilized to obtain neural activity vectors (NAVs) describing the activity of the underlying neural population while rats performed a discrimination task. The methods evaluated included standard techniques such as binned spike rates and local field potential spectra as well as more novel approaches including matched-filter energy, raw signal spectra, and an autocorrelation energy measure (AEM) approach. Support vector machines (SVMs) were trained offline to classify left from right going movements by utilizing features contained in the NAVs obtained by the different methods. Each method was evaluated for accuracy and robustness. Results show that most algorithms worked well for decoding neural signals both during and prior to movement, with spectral methods providing the best stability.
Some solutions to technical hurdles for developing a practical intracortical visual prosthesis device.	The goal of cortical neuroprosthesis researchers of last four decades is to develop a practical intracortical visual prosthesis device. Although the concept of such a system seems straightforward, details of its configuration remain undefined. Knowledge of how the human visual system will respond to artificially-induced visually-based input is sparse. Combined with technological limitations, these have hindered the progress in developing a practical intracortical visual prosthesis device. The long-term objective of this research is to develop a continuously wearable intracortical visual prosthesis device. Earlier studies have used relatively small numbers of cortical electrodes, and these have been insufficient to generate an integrated visual perception. Surgical difficulties also complicate problem. A prototype visual prosthesis system needs to be adaptable to varying stimulation, image processing, and user interface needs. It also has the obvious requirement portability, implying extremely low power consumption and low weight so that the system can be used outside the confinement of a lab. We feel that available technology has sufficiently advanced to develop a first-generation intracortical visual prosthesis device. In this paper we propose some solutions to the challenges for developing this visual prosthesis device using existing technologies.
A multifunctional neural electrode stimulation ASIC using NeuroTalk interface.	The NeuroTalk interface, described in a companion paper allows for a standardized method of communication with implanted modules that contain custom application specific integrated circuits (ASIC). Here, we describe an example of one such ASIC that has been designed for use in a visual prosthesis. The ASIC is small enough to be incorporated within a 16-channel multielectrode stimulation array implanted in the cortex. In this paper we describe a version designed to operate over a 4-wire buss called NeuroTalk 2. Other versions of the ASIC operate using a single coil input for power and data, over a transcutaneous magnetic link.
A LabVIEW based experiment system for the efficient collection and analysis of cyclic voltametry and electrode charge capacity measurements.	Cyclic voltametry and recording of stimulation electrode voltage excursions are two critical methods of measurement for understanding the performance of implantable electrodes. Because implanted electrodes cannot easily be replaced, it is necessary to have an a-priori understanding of an electrode's implanted performance and capabilities. In-vitro exhaustive tests are often needed to quantify an electrodes performance. Using commonly available equipment, the human labor cost to conduct this work is immense. Presented is an automated experiment system that is highly configurable that can efficiently conduct a battery of repeatable CV and stimulation recording measurements. Results of preparing 96 electrodes prior to an animal implantation are also discussed.
Analysis of capacitive coupling within microelectrode array.	Capacitive coupling within high-density microelectrode arrays can degrade neural recording signal or disperse neural stimulation current. Material deterioration in a chronically implanted neural stimulation/recording system can cause such an undesired effect. We present a simple method with an iterative algorithm to quantify the cross-coupling capacitance, in-situ.
Stimulator selection in SSVEP-based BCI.	Steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEP) are increasingly used in the development of brain-computer interface techniques (BCI). We investigated the spectrum differences of three kinds of flickers and the differences in SSVEPs evoked by three different stimulators, i.e. the light-emitting diode, the cathode ray tube of a desktop monitor and the liquid crystal display of a laptop screen. The results showed that the SSVEP differences were strongly related to the frequency spectrum differences of the flickers. According to these differences, the stimulator was selected based on the complexity of the BCI system.
Direct contrasts between experimental conditions may yield more focal oscillatory activations than comparing pre- versus post-stimulus responses.	Contrasting electro- or magnetoencephalographic oscillatory responses to sensory stimuli with a pre-stimulation baseline commonly yields spectrally broad and topographically distributed activations. In contrast, comparisons between closely matched task conditions usually result in more focal differences. In the present study, we reanalyzed an existing set of MEG data recorded during stimulation with virtual Kanizsa figures and no-triangle control stimuli to contrast results yielded by the two approaches. Statistical analysis showed that visual stimulation compared to baseline gave rise to spectral amplitude reductions in lower frequencies including alpha and beta and amplitude enhancements in gamma frequencies above 55 Hz. These changes reached significance by about 100 ms post-stimulus onset, were topographically widespread over posterior cortex, and did not differ between stimuli. A second, more focal component over ventral occipital cortex peaked at about 300 ms in the gamma range at approximately 70 Hz. It was more pronounced for the Kanizsa triangle than for the no-triangle stimulus. A third gamma component over lateral occipito-temporal cortex showed an amplitude increase at around 450 ms for virtual figures and a concomitant decrease for the nongestalt-like control stimulus, and no overall task-related activity. Our findings illustrate that direct comparisons between conditions yield effects with a more focal spectral and topographical distribution than comparisons with a pre-stimulus baseline. Moreover, they exemplify that contrasts between conditions may reveal additional activations not captured by comparisons with a pre-stimulus baseline.
Graded size sensitivity of object-exemplar-evoked activity patterns within human LOC subregions.	A central issue for understanding visual object recognition is how the cortical hierarchy represents incoming sensory information and transforms it across successive processing stages. The format of object representation in the human brain has thus far mostly been studied using adaptation paradigms because the neuronal layout of object selectivities was thought to be beyond the resolution of conventional functional MRI (fMRI). Recently, however, multivariate pattern recognition succeeded in discriminating fMRI responses of object-selective cortex to different object exemplars within a given category. Here, we use increased spatial fMRI resolution to explore size sensitivity and tolerance to size change of response patterns evoked by object exemplars across a range of three sizes. Results from Support Vector Classification on responses of the human lateral occipital complex (LOC) show that discrimination of size (for a given object) and discrimination of objects across changes in size depended on the amount of size difference. Even across the largest amount of size change, accuracy for generalization was still significant in LOC, whereas the same comparison was at chance performance in early visual (calcarine) cortex. Analyzing subregions, we further found an anterior-posterior gradient in the degree of size sensitivity and size generalization within the posterior-dorsal and anterior-ventral parts of LOC. These results speak against fully size-invariant representation of object information in human LOC and are hence congruent with findings in monkeys showing object identity and size information in population activity of inferotemporal cortex. Moreover, these results provide evidence for a fine-grained functional heterogeneity within human LOC beyond the commonly used LO/fusiform subdivision.
The role of the extrastriate body area in action perception.	Numerous cortical regions respond to aspects of the human form and its actions. What is the contribution of the extrastriate body area (EBA) to this network? In particular, is the EBA involved in constructing a dynamic representation of observed actions? We scanned 16 participants with fMRI while they viewed two kinds of stimulus sequences. In the coherent condition, static frames from a movie of a single, intransitive whole-body action were presented in the correct order. In the incoherent condition, a series of frames from multiple actions (involving one actor) were presented. ROI analyses showed that the EBA, unlike area MT + and the posterior superior temporal sulcus, responded more to the incoherent than to the coherent conditions. Whole brain analyses revealed increased activation to the coherent sequences in parietal and frontal regions that have been implicated in the observation and control of movement. We suggest that the EBA response adapts when succeeding images depict relatively similar postures (coherent condition) compared to relatively different postures (incoherent condition). We propose that the EBA plays a unique role in the perception of action, by representing the static structure, rather than dynamic aspects, of the human form.
Origin of synchronized low-frequency blood oxygen level-dependent fluctuations in the primary visual cortex.	Low-frequency (<0.08 Hz) fluctuations in spontaneous blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) signal intensity show synchronization across anatomically interconnected and functionally specific brain regions, suggesting a neural origin of fluctuations. To determine the mechanism by which high-frequency neural activity results in low-frequency BOLD fluctuations, I obtained measurements of the effects of neurovascular coupling on the frequency content of BOLD fluctuations.
Recovery from monocular deprivation using binocular deprivation.	Ocular dominance (OD) plasticity is a robust paradigm for examining the functional consequences of synaptic plasticity. Previous experimental and theoretical results have shown that OD plasticity can be accounted for by known synaptic plasticity mechanisms, using the assumption that deprivation by lid suture eliminates spatial structure in the deprived channel. Here we show that in the mouse, recovery from monocular lid suture can be obtained by subsequent binocular lid suture but not by dark rearing. This poses a significant challenge to previous theoretical results. We therefore performed simulations with a natural input environment appropriate for mouse visual cortex. In contrast to previous work, we assume that lid suture causes degradation but not elimination of spatial structure, whereas dark rearing produces elimination of spatial structure. We present experimental evidence that supports this assumption, measuring responses through sutured lids in the mouse. The change in assumptions about the input environment is sufficient to account for new experimental observations, while still accounting for previous experimental results.
Cortical layer-dependent dynamic blood oxygenation, cerebral blood flow and cerebral blood volume responses during visual stimulation.	The spatiotemporal characteristics of cerebral blood volume (CBV) and flow (CBF) responses are important for understanding neurovascular coupling mechanisms and blood oxygenation level-dependent (BOLD) signals. For this, cortical layer-dependent BOLD, CBV and CBF responses were measured at the cat visual cortex using fMRI. Major findings are: (i) the time-dependent fMRI cortical profile is dependent on imaging modality. Overall, the peak across the cortex occurs at the cortical surface for BOLD, but at the middle cortical layer for CBV and CBF. Compared to an initial stimulation period (4-10 s), the spatial specificity of CBV to the middle cortical layer increases significantly at a later time, while the specificity of BOLD and CBF slightly changes. (ii) The CBV response at the upper cortical area containing large pial vessels has a faster onset time and time to peak than the BOLD response at the same area, and a faster time to peak than CBV at the middle cortical area with microvessels. This suggests that the dilation of microvessels at the middle cortical area follows arterial volume increase at the surface of the cortex. (iii) For all three modalities, the post-stimulus undershoot was observed with the 60-s stimulation paradigm, indicating that the post-stimulus BOLD undershoot cannot be explained by the delayed venous CBV recovery theory under our experimental conditions. (iv) The relationship between CBV and CBF responses is both spatially and temporally dependent. Thus, a single power-law scaling constant (gamma value) may not be applicable for high-resolution study.
Investigating the source of BOLD nonlinearity in human visual cortex in response to paired visual stimuli.	Several studies have demonstrated significant nonlinearity in the blood-oxygenation-level-dependent (BOLD) signal. Completely understanding the nature of this nonlinear behavior is important in the interpretation of the BOLD signal. However, this task is hindered by the uncertainty of the source of BOLD nonlinearity which could come from neuronal and/or vascular origin. The obscurity of this issue not only impedes accurate modeling of BOLD nonlinearity, but also limits generalization of the conclusions regarding BOLD nonlinearity. To examine this issue, we eliminated nonlinear contributions from the neuronal response and selectively study BOLD nonlinearity under only the vascular effect by employing a paired-stimulus paradigm composed of two ultra-short visual stimuli separated by a variable inter-stimulus interval (ISI). ISIs chosen were long enough (> or = 1s) to ensure invariant neuronal activity to all stimuli. Under this circumstance, we still observed significant nonlinearity in the BOLD signal reflected by a progressive recovery of BOLD response to the second stimuli as ISI gets longer and delayed BOLD onset latency. These nonlinear behaviors identified in the BOLD signal originate entirely from the vascular responses as the neuronal responses to all stimuli are identical. More importantly, we found that BOLD nonlinearity became much less significant after we removed activated pixels from large vessels. These finds reveal that the dominant component, if not all, of the source of BOLD nonlinearity comes from large-vessel hemodynamic response. They also suggest a possible mechanism to improve the spatial specificity of gradient-echo BOLD signal for fMRI mapping based on the characteristics of vascular refractoriness.
Functional activation in diverse regions of the developing brain of human infants.	To understand the functional organization of the human cortex during the early postnatal period, we performed neuroimaging studies for visual perception in awake 3-month-old infants. Cortical hemodynamic responses to 2 different video images, moving mobile objects and black-and-white checkerboard pattern reversals, were observed using multichannel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Although a focal region of the occipital cortex was equally activated by both stimuli, the occipitotemporal region was activated only by the mobile objects. A possible explanation of the result is that the former and the latter regions are involved in the primary processing of visual stimuli and perception of objects with complex visual features, respectively. Furthermore, the prefrontal region was distinctly activated by the mobile objects. These results suggest that the early sensory region and the higher sensory/association and prefrontal regions are functionally differentiated by 3 months of age and that diverse regions of the cortex including the prefrontal region function during perception of visual events.
Attention capture by eye of origin singletons even without awareness--a hallmark of a bottom-up saliency map in the primary visual cortex.	Human observers are typically unaware of the eye of origin of visual inputs. This study shows that an eye of origin or ocular singleton, e.g., an item in the left eye among background items in the right eye, can nevertheless attract attention automatically. Observers searched for a uniquely oriented bar, i.e., an orientation singleton, in a background of horizontal bars. Their reports of the tilt direction of the search target in a brief (200 ms) display were more accurate in a dichoptic congruent (DC) condition, when the target was also an ocular singleton, than in a monocular (M) condition, when all bars were presented to the same single eye, or a dichoptic incongruent (DI) condition, when an ocular singleton was a background bar. The better performance in DC did not depend on the ability of the observers to report the presence of an ocular singleton by making forced choices in the same stimuli (though without the orientation singleton). This suggests that the ocular singleton exogenously cued attention to its location, facilitating the identification of the tilt singleton in the DC condition. When the search display persisted without being masked, observers' reaction times (RTs) for reporting the location of the search target were shorter in the DC, and longer in the DI, than the M condition, regardless of whether the observers were aware that different conditions existed. In an analogous design, similar RT patterns were observed for the task of finding an orientation contrast texture border. These results suggest that in typical trials, attention was more quickly attracted to or initially distracted from the target in the DC or DI condition, respectively. Hence, an ocular singleton, though elusive to awareness, can effectively compete for attention with an orientation singleton (tilted 20 or 50 degrees from background bars in the current study). Similarly, it can also make a difficult visual search easier by diminishing the set size effect. Since monocular neurons with the eye of origin information are abundant in the primary visual cortex (V1) and scarce in other cortical areas, and since visual awareness is believed to be absent or weaker in V1 than in other cortical areas, our results provide a hallmark of the role of V1 in creating a bottom-up saliency map to guide attentional selection.
No evidence for widespread synchronized networks in binocular rivalry: MEG frequency tagging entrains primarily early visual cortex.	We investigated the spatio-temporal dynamics of the steady-state-visual-evoked field during perceptual switches in binocular rivalry using MEG. Several authors have previously used frequency tagging in MEG studies on binocular rivalry and have claimed to have found a widespread network of synchronized areas that are entrained by the stimulus, reaching up to frontal regions. Moreover, it has been claimed that the results prove that becoming aware of a stimulus is established by increased intra- and interhemispheric synchronization of brain areas, separated by large distances. Our results dovetailed nicely with previous findings such as power and coherence modulations as a function of perceptual state. However, while we also found stimulus-entrained activity across the entire scalp, a phase analysis revealed that the spatially extended nature of the frequency tag was produced by a limited set of occipital sources. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the coherence results from earlier studies are ambiguous in that they likely measured coherence between different sensors whose signals were dominated by the same sources. We conclude that the claims about widespread synchronized networks to consciously perceive flicker stimuli are currently unconvincing.
Distinctive features of adult ocular dominance plasticity.	Sensory experience profoundly shapes neural circuitry of juvenile brain. Although the visual cortex of adult rodents retains a capacity for plasticity in response to monocular visual deprivation, the nature of this plasticity and the neural circuit changes that accompany it remain enigmatic. Here, we investigate differences between adult and juvenile ocular dominance plasticity using Fourier optical imaging of intrinsic signals in mouse visual cortex. This comparison reveals that adult plasticity takes longer than in the juvenile mouse, is of smaller magnitude, has a greater contribution from the increase in response to the open eye, and has less effect on the hemisphere ipsilateral to the deprived eye. Binocular deprivation also causes different changes in the adult. Adult plasticity is similar to juvenile plasticity in its dependence on signaling through NMDA receptors. We propose that adult ocular dominance plasticity arises from compensatory mechanisms that counterbalance the loss of afferent activity caused by visual deprivation.
Opposite neural signatures of motion-induced blindness in human dorsal and ventral visual cortex.	Motion-induced blindness (MIB) is a visual phenomenon in which a salient static target spontaneously fluctuates in and out of visual awareness when surrounded by a moving mask pattern. It has been hypothesized that MIB reflects an antagonistic interplay between cortical representations of the static target and moving mask. Here, we report evidence for such antagonism between human ventral and dorsal visual cortex during MIB. Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) responses in ventral visual area V4 decreased with the subjective disappearance of the target. These response decreases were specific for the cortical subregion corresponding retinotopically to the target, occurred early in time with respect to the perceptual report, and could not be explained by shifts of attention in reaction to target disappearance. At the same time, responses increased in mask-specific subregions in dorsal visual areas in and around the intraparietal sulcus. These opposite responses in ventral and dorsal visual areas occurred only during subjective target disappearance, not when the target was physically removed. Perceptual reports of target disappearance were furthermore associated with a "global" modulation of activity, which was delayed in time, and evident throughout early visual cortex, for both subjective target disappearance and physical target removal. We conclude that awareness of the target is tightly linked to the strength of its representation in ventral visual cortex, and that the mask representation in dorsal visual cortex plays a crucial role in the spontaneous suppression of the target representation during MIB.
Functional role of the supplementary and pre-supplementary motor areas.	The supplementary motor complex consists of the supplementary motor area, the supplementary eye field and the pre-supplementary motor area. In recent years, these areas have come under increasing scrutiny from cognitive neuroscientists, motor physiologists and clinicians because they seem to be crucial for linking cognition to action. However, theories regarding their function vary widely. This Review brings together the data regarding the supplementary motor regions, highlighting outstanding issues and providing new perspectives for understanding their functions.
The effect of response-delay on estimating reachability.	The experiment was conducted to compare visual imagery (VI) and motor imagery (MI) reaching tasks in a response-delay paradigm designed to explore the hypothesized dissociation between vision for perception and vision for action. Although the visual systems work cooperatively in motor control, theory suggests that they operate under different temporal constraints. From this perspective, we expected that delay would affect MI but not VI because MI operates in real time and VI is postulated to be memory-driven. Following measurement of actual reach, right-handers were presented seven (imagery) targets at midline in eight conditions: MI and VI with 0-, 1-, 2-, and 4-s delays. Results indicted that delay affected the ability to estimate reachability with MI but not with VI. These results are supportive of a general distinction between vision for perception and vision for action.
Temporal integration in cat visual cortex: a test of Bloch's law.	Some units in the cat visual cortex fail to respond to a briefly flashed bar and it has been suggested that such neurons function as visual integrators with a long time constant. To test this integrator hypothesis, a study was made using presentations of a bar, flashed over the receptive field for various durations and at different luminances. Some cortical cells indeed showed an increase in the time to peak latency and in the response amplitude when stimulus duration was prolonged up to 320 msec. Such units obeyed Bloch's law for durations over 100 msec.
Chronic blockade of bioelectric activity in neonatal rat neocortex in vitro: physiological effects.	We have examined what effect the loss of spontaneous bioelectric activity has on neural network formation in organotypic rat neocortical explants grown under serum-free culture conditions. Explants were taken from dorsal midline (presumptive visual) and lateral (presumptive auditory) occipital cortex and chronically exposed to tetrodotoxin which blocked all measurable bioelectric activity between change of medium. Extracellular recordings revealed complex, rhythmic spontaneous and evoked multiunit discharges in all explants examined (following tetrodotoxin washout in the experimental group). Control auditory explants had significantly more sites from which electric activity could be recorded compared with control visual explants. Auditory cultures showed no effect of the tetrodotoxin treatment, whereas visual explants showed significant increases over control values, equalling the auditory values. This increased level of spontaneous bioelectric activity was maintained for at least 10 days following transfer of the cultures to control growth medium. There was no significant difference between control visual and auditory explants regarding the number of sites from which evoked activity was seen. Nor did either cortex group show an effect of tetrodotoxin on the number of sites from which evoked activity was seen. The frequency with which spontaneous bioelectric discharges occurred per site increased with age in auditory vs visual cortex. These differences, however, were abolished in the tetrodotoxin-treated groups. It was concluded that neocortical explants which have experienced chronic suppression of spontaneous electric activity did not suffer deficits in neural network formation, though there is an effect on the incidence and frequency with which such activity is given.
Cervical sensitivity participates in the development of cortical coding of orientation]	Extraocular proprioceptive afferents associated with eye movements had been shown to be necessary during visual experience to allow the development of orientation selectivity in visual cortical neurons. In the present study, it has been demonstrated that cervical proprioceptive afferents were also involved in the process. Their suppression reduced the level of orientation selectivity reach after a controlled visual experience compared to the level observed in intact animals. Similarly, this suppression increased the deleterious effects of a deafferentation of eye muscles when both were associated. These results show that neck muscle proprioceptive afferents are involved in the process of development of orientation selectivity by visual cortical neurons.
Experience-dependent gene expression in adult visual cortex.	Experience-dependent plasticity of the adult visual cortex underlies perceptual learning and recovery of function following central nervous system lesions. To reveal the signal transduction cascades involved in adult cortical plasticity, we utilized a model of remapping of cortical topography following binocular retinal lesions. In this model, the lesion projection zone (LPZ) of primary visual cortex (V1) recovers visually driven activity by the sprouting of horizontal axonal connections originating from the cells in the surrounding region. To explore the molecular mechanism underlying this process, we used gene microarrays from an expression library prepared from Macaque V1. By microarray analysis of gene expression levels in the LPZ and the surrounding region, and subsequent confirmation with Quantitative Real-Time polymerase chain reaction and in situ hybridization, the participation of a number of genes was observed, including the Rho GTPase family. Its role in regulation of cytoskeleton assembly provides a possible link between the alteration of neural activity and cortical functional reorganization.
Flashed pattern-induced activity in the visual system: I. The short latency evoked response recorded from the cat visual cortex.	Previous methods for estimating visual acuity have used the visual evoked response conventionally the late visual evoked response components or the steady-state potential. The present experiments were undertaken to evaluate the possible use of short latency flashed pattern evoked responses in estimating pattern dependent activity in the cat visual system. Recordings were made from the skull bone and the dura above the primary visual cortex and intracortically. The visual evoked responses to patterned (checks) and non-patterned light flashes of high intensity and short duration were recorded. The visual evoked response activity recorded from the cortical surface had an onset latency of 14-15 ms. The initial positive-negative potential sequences of the responses were similar for patterned and non-patterned stimuli, however a difference was recorded from 35-40 ms after stimulus. The smallest check size which separated a pattern from a non-pattern VER was in the order of 10 min of arc. The results indicate that the short-latency cortical VER may be used to estimate visual resolution.
Coverage and the design of striate cortex.	Hubel and Wiesel (1977) suggested that ocular dominance and orientation columns in the macaque monkey striate cortex might be bands of uniform width that intersected orthogonally. They pointed out that if this were the case, there would be an equal allocation of cells of different orientation preference to each eye and to each point in visual space. However, orientation and ocular dominance columns have a more complex structural organization than is implied by this model: for example, iso-orientation domains do not intersect ocular dominance stripes at right angles and the two columnar systems have different periodicities. This raises the question as to how well the striate cortex manages to allocate equal numbers of neurons of different orientation preference to each eye and to each region of visual space, a factor referred to here as coverage. This paper defines a measure of uniformity of coverage, c', and investigates its dependence on several different parameters of columnar organisation. Calculations were done first using a simplified one-dimensional model of orientation and ocular dominance columns and were then repeated using more realistic two-dimensional models, generated with the algorithms described in the preceding paper (Swindale 1991). Factors investigated include the relative periodicities of the two columnar systems, the size of the cortical point image, the width of orientation tuning curves, whether columns are spatially anisotropic or not, and the role of the structural relationships between columns described by Blasdel and Salama (1986). The results demonstrate that coverage is most uniform when orientation hypercolumns are about half the size of ocular dominance hypercolumns. Coverage is most uneven when the hypercolumns are the same size, unless they are related in the way described by Blasdel and Salama, in which case coverage gets only slightly worse as the size ratio (ori/od) increases above 0.5. The minimum diameter of cortical point image that ensures reasonably uniform coverage is about twice the size of an ocular dominance hypercolumn i.e. about 1.5-2.0 mm.
Energy filters, motion uncertainty, and motion sensitive cells in the visual cortex: a mathematical analysis.	Energy filters are tuned to space-time frequency orientations. In order to compute velocity it is necessary to use a collection of filters, each tuned to a different space-time frequency. Here we analyze, in a probabilistic framework, the properties of the motion uncertainty. Its lower bound, which can be explicitly computed through the Cramr-Rao inequality, will have different values depending on the filter parameters. We show for the Gabor filter that, in order to minimize the motion uncertainty, the spatial and temporal filter sizes cannot be arbitrarily chosen; they are only allowed to vary over a limited range of values such that the temporal filter bandwidth is larger than the spatial bandwidth. This property is shared by motion sensitive cells in the primary visual cortex of the cat, which are known to be direction selective and are tuned to space-time frequency orientations. We conjecture that these cells have larger temporal bandwidth relative to their spatial bandwidth because they compute velocity with maximum efficiency, that is, with a minimum motion uncertainty.
Spatial distribution of long-term potentiation in the surround of visual cortex lesions in vitro.	Focal visual cortex lesions lead to functional changes in the surrounding cortical network, possibly mediated through synaptic long-term potentiation (LTP). Although a post-lesional facilitation of LTP has been observed, nothing is known about the spatial profile of LTP in the normal and focally lesioned visual cortex of rats. We used a 64-multielectrode array to characterise the spread of LTP induced by theta-burst stimulation in layer IV. Measurements were made at comparable distances from the midline in the visual cortex of controls, sham-operated and lesioned animals. In control rats, LTP was elicited in projections to all visual cortex layers. However, we completely failed to observe LTP in sham-operated animals 1-4 days after surgery. At comparable survival times, no LTP could be elicited in the lesion-treated rats in direct vicinity of the border of the injury, while LTP was successfully induced at larger distances from the lesion. The maximal reach of this restored post-lesion LTP was spatially more limited than in controls and equal in all directions, accordingly absolute distance and not maximal length or density of connections seems to rule local lesion-induced functional remodelling.
Decoupling location specificity from perceptual learning of orientation discrimination.	Perceptual learning of orientation discrimination is reported to be precisely specific to the trained retinal location. This specificity is often taken as evidence for localizing the site of orientation learning to retinotopic cortical areas V1/V2. However, the extant physiological evidence for training improved orientation turning in V1/V2 neurons is controversial and weak. Here we demonstrate substantial transfer of orientation learning across retinal locations, either from the fovea to the periphery or amongst peripheral locations. Most importantly, we found that a brief pretest at a peripheral location before foveal training enabled complete transfer of learning, so that additional practice at that peripheral location resulted in no further improvement. These results indicate that location specificity in orientation learning depends on the particular training procedures, and is not necessarily a genuine property of orientation learning. We suggest that non-retinotopic high brain areas may be responsible for orientation learning, consistent with the extant neurophysiological data.
Low-level sensory plasticity during task-irrelevant perceptual learning: evidence from conventional and double training procedures.	Studies of perceptual learning have focused on aspects of learning that are related to early stages of sensory processing. However, conclusions that perceptual learning results in low-level sensory plasticity are controversial, since such learning may also be attributed to plasticity in later stages of sensory processing or in readout from sensory to decision stages, or to changes in high-level central processing. To address this controversy, we developed a novel random dot motion (RDM) stimulus to target motion cells selective to contrast polarity by ensuring the motion direction information arises only from signal dot onsets and not their offsets, and used these stimuli in the paradigm of task-irrelevant perceptual learning (TIPL). In TIPL, learning is achieved in response to a stimulus by subliminally pairing that stimulus with the targets of an unrelated training task. In this manner, we are able to probe learning for an aspect of motion processing thought to be a function of directional V1 simple cells with a learning procedure that dissociates the learned stimulus from the decision processes relevant to the training task. Our results show direction-selective learning for the designated contrast polarity that does not transfer to the opposite contrast polarity. This polarity specificity was replicated in a double training procedure in which subjects were additionally exposed to the opposite polarity. Taken together, these results suggest that TIPL for motion stimuli may occur at the stage of directional V1 simple cells. Finally, a theoretical explanation is provided to understand the data.
Dimensionally-reduced visual cortical network model predicts network response and connects system- and cellular-level descriptions.	Systems-level neurophysiological data reveal coherent activity that is distributed across large regions of cortex. This activity is often thought of as an emergent property of recurrently connected networks. The fact that this activity is coherent means that populations of neurons may be thought of as the carriers of information, not individual neurons. Therefore, systems-level descriptions of functional activity in the network often find their simplest form as combinations of the underlying neuronal variables. In this paper, we provide a general framework for constructing low-dimensional dynamical systems that capture the essential systems-level information contained in large-scale networks of neurons. We demonstrate that these dimensionally-reduced models are capable of predicting the response to previously un-encountered input and that the coupling between systems-level variables can be used to reconstruct cellular-level functional connectivities. Furthermore, we show that these models may be constructed even in the absence of complete information about the underlying network.
Attention directed by expectations enhances receptive fields in cortical area MT.	Expectations, especially those formed on the basis of extensive training, can substantially enhance visual performance. However, it is not clear that the physiological mechanisms underlying this enhancement are identical to those examined by experiments in which attention is directed by explicit instructions rather than strong expectations. To study the changes in visual representations associated with strong expectations, we trained animals to detect a brief motion pulse that was embedded in noise. Because the nature of the pulse and the statistics of its appearance were well known to the animals, they formed strong expectations which determined their behavioral performance. We used white-noise methods to infer the receptive field structure of single neurons in area MT while they were performing this task. Incorporating non-linearities, we compared receptive fields during periods of time when the animals were expecting the motion pulse with periods of time when they were not. We found receptive field changes consistent with an increased reliability in signaling pulse occurrence. Moreover, these changes were not consistent with a simple gain modulation. The results suggest that strong expectations can create very specific changes in the visual representations at a cellular level to enhance performance.
Temporal interactions in the cat visual system. II. Suppressive and facilitatory effects in the lateral geniculate nucleus.	Extracellular responses were recorded from single neurons in the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the cat during presentation of pairs of brief visual stimuli identical to those that produce orientation-selective paired-pulsed suppression in the visual cortex. LGN neurons also show paired-pulse suppression, but the suppression is not orientation selective, and it occurs only for short interstimulus intervals (ISIs; usually less than 200 msec). At longer ISIs, most LGN neurons show a period of facilitation. Thus, the paired-pulse suppression in the LGN cannot account for that seen in the visual cortex. Paired-pulse suppression in the LGN was found to be enhanced by stimulation of the receptive field surround. LGN neurons also showed a second type of suppression, termed "offset suppression," which consisted of a more long-lasting suppression of spontaneous activity following the offset of an excitatory visual stimulus. The suppression of spontaneous activity was accompanied by a reduction of the antidromic excitability, assessed by stimulating LGN axons within the cortex or optic radiation. Unlike paired-pulsed suppression, offset suppression was not enhanced by increased stimulation of the receptive field surround. Paired-pulse suppression and offset suppression are most likely due to different mechanisms because they have different time courses and depend differently on the spatial properties of the stimuli. Functionally, paired-pulse suppression may be related to the reduced visual sensitivity that accompanies eye movements, while offset suppression may serve to enhance temporal contrast.
The role of the superior colliculus in facilitating visual attention and form perception.	When interhemispheric transfer in cats is studied from an intact hemisphere to a hemisphere with a suprasylvian cortical lesion, excellent transfer of grating discriminations, but no transfer of forms, is present. Stimuli with global, repetitive features covering a large visual field (gratings), which can be discriminated by preattentive vision, are transferred; perception of stimuli with local features (forms), which require serial exploration using focal vision, is defective in the hemisphere with cortical lesion and transfer is lacking. Influence of the midbrain in facilitating focal vision is shown by the restoration of form discriminations after section of the superior collicular commissure. It is hypothesized that the perceptual defect after lesion in the suprasylvian cortex is due to poor spatial attention and its restoration after midbrain lesion is due to improved function of those collicular cells that mediate orienting of attention.
Dissociation of object and spatial visual processing pathways in human extrastriate cortex.	The existence and neuroanatomical locations of separate extrastriate visual pathways for object recognition and spatial localization were investigated in healthy young men. Regional cerebral blood flow was measured by positron emission tomography and bolus injections of H2(15)O, while subjects performed face matching, dot-location matching, or sensorimotor control tasks. Both visual matching tasks activated lateral occipital cortex. Face discrimination alone activated a region of occipitotemporal cortex that was anterior and inferior to the occipital area activated by both tasks. The spatial location task alone activated a region of lateral superior parietal cortex. Perisylvian and anterior temporal cortices were not activated by either task. These results demonstrate the existence of three functionally dissociable regions of human visual extrastriate cortex. The ventral and dorsal locations of the regions specialized for object recognition and spatial localization, respectively, suggest some homology between human and nonhuman primate extrastriate cortex, with displacement in human brain, possibly related to the evolution of phylogenetically newer cortical areas.
Comparison of visually evoked local field potentials in isolated turtle brain: patterned versus blank stimulation.	Isolated turtle brain/eye preparation has recently been used as a bloodless animal model for detecting the magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) signal changes produced by visually evoked neuronal currents. The present work aims to determine whether checkerboard-patterned or full field flash (blank) stimulation should be used in order to achieve stronger neuronal responses in turtle brain/eye preparation. The knowledge gained in this study is essential for optimizing the visual stimulation methods in functional neuroimaging studies using turtle brain/eye preparation. In this study, visually evoked local field potentials (LFPs) were measured and compared in turtle visual cortex and optic tectum elicited by checkerboard and full field flash stimuli with three different inter-stimulus intervals (ISIs=5, 10, and 16s). It was found that the behavior of neuronal adaptation in the cortical and tectal LFP signals for checkerboard stimulation was comparable to flash stimulation. In addition, there was no significant difference in the LFP peak amplitudes (ISI=16s) between these two stimuli. These results indicate that the intensity of neuronal responses to checkerboard is comparable to flash stimulation. These two stimulation methods should be equivalent in functional neuroimaging studies using turtle brain/eye preparation.
On mental rotations and cortical activity patterns. A linear representation is still wanted.	Carlton (1988) has proposed an attractive hypothesis to link perceived visual images to brain electrical patterns via a linear representation of the Euclidean group onto an appropriate functional space. We show that the construction she proposes is (1) biologically restrictive, and (2) cannot be completed in the desired way. We conclude by presenting other possible means to pursue Carlton's approach.
The role of the primate extrastriate area V4 in vision.	Area V4 is a part of the primate visual cortex. Its role in vision has been extensively debated. Inferences about the functions of this area have now been made by examination of a broad range of visual capacities after ablation of V4 in rhesus monkeys. The results obtained suggest that this area is involved in more complex aspects of visual information processing than had previously been suggested. Monkeys had particularly severe deficits in situations where the task was to select target stimuli that had a lower contrast, smaller size, or slower rate of motion than the array of comparison stimuli from which they had to be discriminated. Extensive training on each specific task resulted in improved performance. However, after V4 ablation, the monkeys could not generalize the specific task to new stimulus configurations and to new spatial locations.
The relationship between simple and double opponent cells.	Little is known about the formation of double opponent cells (DOCs) from geniculate afferents. Three LGN cell types have been considered as DOC precursors. No simple wiring scheme based on these cell types is consistent with the available evidence. The color and luminance multiplexed signal of P beta ganglion cells (Type I receptive fields) contains the information necessary to construct DOCs, provided that filtering operations can separate the two signals. Electrophysiological and anatomical evidence is consistent with Type I cells being filtered prior to the formation of DOCs. Cortical Type II and Type III cells can also be created by filtering.
Phosphene thresholds evoked with single and double TMS pulses.	To evaluate the quantitative advantage of double pulses vs. single pulses in TMS phosphenes evoked from the occipital cortex.
Connectivity reflects coding: a model of voltage-based STDP with homeostasis.	Electrophysiological connectivity patterns in cortex often have a few strong connections, which are sometimes bidirectional, among a lot of weak connections. To explain these connectivity patterns, we created a model of spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) in which synaptic changes depend on presynaptic spike arrival and the postsynaptic membrane potential, filtered with two different time constants. Our model describes several nonlinear effects that are observed in STDP experiments, as well as the voltage dependence of plasticity. We found that, in a simulated recurrent network of spiking neurons, our plasticity rule led not only to development of localized receptive fields but also to connectivity patterns that reflect the neural code. For temporal coding procedures with spatio-temporal input correlations, strong connections were predominantly unidirectional, whereas they were bidirectional under rate-coded input with spatial correlations only. Thus, variable connectivity patterns in the brain could reflect different coding principles across brain areas; moreover, our simulations suggested that plasticity is fast.
Subcortical representation of non-Fourier image features.	A fundamental goal of visual neuroscience is to identify the neural pathways representing different image features. It is widely argued that the early stages of these pathways represent linear features of the visual scene and that the nonlinearities necessary to represent complex visual patterns are introduced later in cortex. We tested this by comparing the responses of subcortical and cortical neurons to interference patterns constructed by summing sinusoidal gratings. Although a linear mechanism can detect the component gratings, a nonlinear mechanism is required to detect an interference pattern resulting from their sum. Consistent with in vitro retinal ganglion cell recordings, we found that interference patterns are represented subcortically by cat LGN Y-cells, but not X-cells. Linear and nonlinear tuning properties of LGN Y-cells were then characterized and compared quantitatively with those of cortical area 18 neurons responsive to interference patterns. This comparison revealed a high degree of similarity between the two neural populations, including the following: (1) the representation of similar spatial frequencies in both their linear and nonlinear responses, (2) comparable orientation selectivity for the high spatial frequency carrier of interference patterns, and (3) the same difference in their temporal frequency selectivity for drifting gratings versus the envelope of interference patterns. The present findings demonstrate that the nonlinear subcortical Y-cell pathway represents complex visual patterns and likely underlies cortical responses to interference patterns. We suggest that linear and nonlinear mechanisms important for encoding visual scenes emerge in parallel through distinct pathways originating at the retina.
Neural representation of natural images in visual area V2.	Area V2 is a major visual processing stage in mammalian visual cortex, but little is currently known about how V2 encodes information during natural vision. To determine how V2 represents natural images, we used a novel nonlinear system identification approach to obtain quantitative estimates of spatial tuning across a large sample of V2 neurons. We compared these tuning estimates with those obtained in area V1, in which the neural code is relatively well understood. We find two subpopulations of neurons in V2. Approximately one-half of the V2 neurons have tuning that is similar to V1. The other half of the V2 neurons are selective for complex features such as those that occur in natural scenes. These neurons are distinguished from V1 neurons mainly by the presence of stronger suppressive tuning. Selectivity in these neurons therefore reflects a balance between excitatory and suppressive tuning for specific features. These results provide a new perspective on how complex shape selectivity arises, emphasizing the role of suppressive tuning in determining stimulus selectivity in higher visual cortex.
Synaptic and network mechanisms of sparse and reliable visual cortical activity during nonclassical receptive field stimulation.	During natural vision, the entire visual field is stimulated by images rich in spatiotemporal structure. Although many visual system studies restrict stimuli to the classical receptive field (CRF), it is known that costimulation of the CRF and the surrounding nonclassical receptive field (nCRF) increases neuronal response sparseness. The cellular and network mechanisms underlying increased response sparseness remain largely unexplored. Here we show that combined CRF + nCRF stimulation increases the sparseness, reliability, and precision of spiking and membrane potential responses in classical regular spiking (RS(C)) pyramidal neurons of cat primary visual cortex. Conversely, fast-spiking interneurons exhibit increased activity and decreased selectivity during CRF + nCRF stimulation. The increased sparseness and reliability of RS(C) neuron spiking is associated with increased inhibitory barrages and narrower visually evoked synaptic potentials. Our experimental observations were replicated with a simple computational model, suggesting that network interactions among neuronal subtypes ultimately sharpen recurrent excitation, producing specific and reliable visual responses.
When the sun prickles your nose: an EEG study identifying neural bases of photic sneezing.	Exposure to bright light such as sunlight elicits a sneeze or prickling sensation in about one of every four individuals. This study presents the first scientific examination of this phenomenon, called 'the photic sneeze reflex'.
Interhemispheric synchronization of oscillatory neuronal responses in cat visual cortex.	Neurons in area 17 of cat visual cortex display oscillatory responses that can synchronize across spatially separate columns in a stimulus-specific way. Response synchronization has now been shown to occur also between neurons in area 17 of the right and left cerebral hemispheres. This synchronization was abolished by section of the corpus callosum. Thus, the response synchronization is mediated by corticocortical connections. These data are compatible with the hypothesis that temporal synchrony of neuronal discharges serves to bind features within and between the visual hemifields.
The influence of age on the pattern and flash visual evoked magnetic response (VEMR).	The visual evoked magnetic response (VEMR) was measured over the occipital cortex to pattern and flash stimuli in 86 normal subjects aged 15-86 years. The latency of the major positive component (outgoing magnetic field) to the pattern reversal stimulus (P100M) increased with age, particularly after 55 years, while the amplitude of the P100M decreased more gradually over the lifespan. By contrast, the latency of the major positive component to the flash stimulus (P2M) increased more slowly with age after about 50 years, while its amplitude may have decreased in only a proportion of the elderly subjects. The changes in the P100M with age may reflect senile changes in the eye and optic nerve, e.g. senile miosis, degenerative changes in the retina or geniculostriate deficits. The P2M may be more susceptible to senile changes in the visual cortex. The data suggest that the contrast channels of visual information processing deteriorate more rapidly with age than the luminance channels.
Refractive-error changes in kitten eyes produced by chronic on-channel blockade.	The dependence of the emmetropization process on retinal ON-channel activity was examined in developing kittens by making regular intravitreal injections of D,L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (APB). In comparison to sham-injected control eyes, the APB-treated eyes had shorter axial lengths and were more hyperopic. Since chronic atropinization did not alter the development of the APB-induced hyperopia, these anomalous refractive errors are not the result of altered accommodative function. The axial hyperopia observed in the APB-treated eyes indicates that the mechanisms responsible for normal axial elongation are dependent to some extent on ON-channel activity and that, even in the presence of a clear retinal image, OFF-channel activity, by itself, is not sufficient to regulate the normal emmetropization process.
Decoding of coherent but not incoherent motion signals in early dorsal visual cortex.	When several scattered grating elements are arranged in such a way that their directions of motion are consistent with a common path, observers perceive them as belonging to a globally coherent moving object. Here we investigated how this coherence changes the representation of motion signals in human visual cortex using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and multivariate voxel pattern decoding, which have the potential to reveal how well a stimulus is encoded in different contexts. Only during globally coherent motion was it possible to reliably distinguish fMRI signals evoked by different directions of motion in early visual cortex. This effect was specific to the retinotopic representation of the visual field quadrant in V1 traversed by the coherent element path and could not simply be attributed to a general increase in signal strength. Decoding was more reliable for cortical areas corresponding to the lower visual field. Because some previous studies observed poorer speed discrimination when motion was grouped, we also conducted behavioural experiments to investigate this with our stimuli, but did not reveal a consistent relationship between coherence and perceived speed. Taken together, these data show that neuronal populations in early visual cortex represent information that could be used for interpreting motion signals as unified objects.
Age differences in neural distinctiveness revealed by multi-voxel pattern analysis.	Current theories of cognitive aging argue that neural representations become less distinctive in old age, a phenomenon known as dedifferentiation. The present study used multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) to measure age differences in the distinctiveness of distributed patterns of neural activation evoked by different categories of visual images. We found that neural activation patterns within the ventral visual cortex were less distinctive among older adults. Further, we report that age differences in neural distinctiveness extend beyond the ventral visual cortex: older adults also showed decreased distinctiveness in early visual cortex, inferior parietal cortex, and medial and lateral prefrontal cortex. Neural distinctiveness scores in early and late visual areas were highly correlated, suggesting shared mechanisms of age-related decline. Finally, we investigated whether older adults can compensate for altered processing in visual cortex by encoding stimulus information across larger numbers of voxels within the visual cortex or in regions outside visual cortex. We found no evidence that older adults can increase the distinctiveness of distributed activation patterns, either within or beyond the visual cortex. Our results have important implications for theories of cognitive aging and highlight the value of MVPA to the study of neural coding in the aging brain.
Lesion of primary visual cortex in monkey impairs the inhibitory but not the facilitatory cueing effect on saccade.	Prior visual stimulus presentation induces immediate facilitation and subsequent inhibition of orienting to an ensuing target at the same location. Recent studies revealed that the superior colliculus (SC) is involved in these facilitatory and inhibitory cueing effects on saccade; however, as the SC receives inputs both directly from the retina (retino-tectal pathway) and indirectly from visual cortices (geniculostriate pathway), it is unclear which visual pathway contributes to the effects. We investigated this issue using monkeys with lesions in the primary visual cortex (V1), thus depriving the SC of the geniculostriate pathway and leaving the retino-tectal pathway intact. We found that the inhibitory cueing effect was selectively impaired and the facilitatory cueing effect was spared after V1 lesions. The results suggest that the geniculostriate and the retino-tectal pathways are differentially involved in the generation of cueing effects on saccade: The former is critically involved in the inhibitory effect whereas the latter alone can induce the facilitatory effect. The results provide the first direct evidence for the involvement of the geniculostriate pathway in the inhibitory cueing effect and further imply that the more recent evolution of the geniculostriate pathway in higher mammals improves the efficiency of visual search by inhibiting orienting to a previously attended location.
The confounding effect of response amplitude on MVPA performance measures.	Multi-voxel pattern analysis (MVPA) is proving very powerful in the analysis of fMRI timeseries data, yielding surprising sensitivity, in many different contexts, to the response characteristics of neurons in a given brain region. However, MVPA yields a metric (classification performance) that does not readily lend itself to quantitative comparisons across experimental conditions, brain regions or people. This is because performance is influenced by a number of factors other than the sensitivity of neurons to the experimental manipulation. One such factor that varies widely but has been largely ignored in MVPA studies is the amplitude of the response being decoded. In a noisy system, it is expected that measured classification performance will decline with declining response amplitude, even if the underlying neuronal specificity is constant. We document the relationship between response amplitude and classification performance in the context of orientation decoding in the visual cortex. Flickering sine gratings were presented at each of two orthogonal orientations in a block design (multivariate experiment) or an event-related design (univariate experiment). Response amplitude was manipulated by varying stimulus contrast. Orientation classification performance in retinotopically defined occipital area V1 increased approximately linearly with the logarithm of stimulus contrast. As expected, univariate response amplitude also increased with contrast. Similar results were obtained in V2, V3 and V3A. Plotting classification performance against response amplitude gave a function with a compressive non-linearity that was well fit by a power function. Knowledge of this function potentially allows adjustment of classification performance to take account of the effect of response size, making comparisons across brain areas, categories or people more meaningful.
High frequency oscillations as a correlate of visual perception.	Cortical oscillatory activity in the gamma-band range (>30Hz) is a fundamental mechanism of neural coding that arises during a range of cognitive processes in both animals and humans. Since the first report on high frequency oscillatory synchrony between V1 neurons belonging to the same orientation column (Gray and Singer, 1989, PNAS, 86, 1698-1702), the role of such oscillations in visual perception has been extensively researched. Visual stimuli elicit an early, evoked gamma-band response and a later, induced (neither time nor phase-locked) response. An abundance of experimental evidence now links both evoked and induced high frequency oscillations to a range of visual stimulus properties. On the basis of early studies into gamma-band oscillations in vision, induced high frequency oscillatory activity has been proposed as a putative cortical mechanism of coherent percept formation and object representation while evoked high frequency activity was related to the processing of image features. Recent studies demonstrate that both evoked and induced gamma-band activity are correlated with the speed and accuracy of visual detection and discrimination. Furthermore, induced gamma-band oscillations in the visual cortex are also correlated with fixational eye movement patterns. These direct relations between gamma-band activity and the efficacy of visual perception strongly suggest that cortical high frequency synchronisations constitute a neural mechanism that subserves processes essential for the organised intake and analysis of visual information.
Robust sensory gating in the cortical visual evoked potential using two spatially separated stimuli.	Sensory gating has been reported to be either absent or weak in the cortical visual evoked potential (VEP) response to diffuse or spatially overlapping stimuli. In this study, the authors evaluated sensory gating to two spatially separated visual stimuli.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation of early visual cortex interferes with subjective visual awareness and objective forced-choice performance.	In order to study whether there exist a period of activity in the human early visual cortex that contributes exclusively to visual awareness, we applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the early visual cortex and measured subjective visual awareness during visual forced-choice symbol or orientation discrimination tasks. TMS produced one dip in awareness 60-120 ms after stimulus onset, while forced-choice orientation discrimination was suppressed between 60 and 90 ms and symbol discrimination between 60 and 120 ms. Thus, a time window specific to visual awareness was found only in the orientation condition at 120 ms. The results imply that both conscious and unconscious perception depend on activity in early visual areas. On the basis of previous estimates of neural processing speed, we suggest that the late part of the activity period most likely involve local extrastriate-striate interactions which provide the contents for visual awareness but are not themselves sufficient for awareness to arise.
Do we track what we see? Common versus independent processing for motion perception and smooth pursuit eye movements: a review.	Many neurophysiological studies in monkeys have indicated that visual motion information for the guidance of perception and smooth pursuit eye movements is - at an early stage - processed in the same visual pathway in the brain, crucially involving the middle temporal area (MT). However, these studies left some questions unanswered: Are perception and pursuit driven by the same or independent neuronal signals within this pathway? Are the perceptual interpretation of visual motion information and the motor response to visual signals limited by the same source of neuronal noise? Here, we review psychophysical studies that were motivated by these questions and compared perception and pursuit behaviorally in healthy human observers. We further review studies that focused on the interaction between perception and pursuit. The majority of results point to similarities between perception and pursuit, but dissociations were also reported. We discuss recent developments in this research area and conclude with suggestions for common and separate principles for the guidance of perceptual and motor responses to visual motion information.
Neural activity in the frontal pursuit area does not underlie pursuit target selection.	The frontal pursuit area (FPA) contains neurons that are directionally selective for pursuit eye-movements. We found that FPA neurons discriminate target from distracter too late to account for pursuit directional selection. Rather, the timing of neuronal discrimination is linked to pursuit onset, suggesting a role in motor execution. We also found buildup of activity of FPA neurons prior to pursuit onset that correlated with eye acceleration. These results show that the FPA is unlikely to be involved in selection of initial pursuit direction, but could be involved in motor preparation by increasing pursuit gain prior to pursuit onset.
Acquisition of nonlinear forward optics in generative models: two-stage "downside-up" learning for occluded vision.	We propose a two-stage learning method which implements occluded visual scene analysis into a generative model, a type of hierarchical neural network with bi-directional synaptic connections. Here, top-down connections simulate forward optics to generate predictions for sensory driven low-level representation, whereas bottom-up connections function to send the prediction error, the difference between the sensory based and the predicted low-level representation, to higher areas. The prediction error is then used to update the high-level representation to obtain better agreement with the visual scene. Although the actual forward optics is highly nonlinear and the accuracy of simulated forward optics is crucial for these types of models, the majority of previous studies have only investigated linear and simplified cases of forward optics. Here we take occluded vision as an example of nonlinear forward optics, where an object in front completely masks out the object behind. We propose a two-staged learning method inspired by the staged development of infant visual capacity. In the primary learning stage, a minimal set of object basis is acquired within a linear generative model using the conventional unsupervised learning scheme. In the secondary learning stage, an auxiliary multi-layer neural network is trained to acquire nonlinear forward optics by supervised learning. The important point is that the high-level representation of the linear generative model serves as the input and the sensory driven low-level representation provides the desired output. Numerical simulations show that occluded visual scene analysis can indeed be implemented by the proposed method. Furthermore, considering the format of input to the multi-layer network and analysis of hidden-layer units leads to the prediction that whole object representation of partially occluded objects, together with complex intermediate representation as a consequence of nonlinear transformation from non-occluded to occluded representation may exist in the low-level visual system of the brain.
ERP evidence of visualization at early stages of visual processing.	Recent neuroimaging research suggests that early visual processing circuits are activated similarly during visualization and perception but have not demonstrated that the cortical activity is similar in character. We found functional equivalency in cortical activity by recording evoked potentials while color and luminance patterns were viewed and while they were visualized with the eyes closed. Cortical responses were found to be different when imagining a color pattern vs. imagining a checkerboard luminance pattern, but the same when imagining a color pattern (or checkerboard pattern) vs. seeing the same pattern. This suggests that early visual processing stages may play a dynamic role in internal image generation, and further implies that visual imagery may modulate perception.
Center-surround interaction with adaptive inhibition: a computational model for contour detection.	The broad region outside the classical receptive field (CRF) of a neuron in the primary visual cortex (V1), namely non-CRF (nCRF), exerts robust modulatory effects on the responses to visual stimuli presented within the CRF. This modulating effect is mostly suppressive, which plays important roles in visual information processing. One possible role is to extract object contours from disorderly background textures. In this study, a two-scale based contour extraction model, inspired by the inhibitory interactions between CRF and nCRF of V1 neurons, is presented. The kernel idea is that the side and end subregions of nCRF work in different manners, i.e., while the strength of side inhibition is consistently calculated just based on the local features in the side regions at a fine spatial scale, the strength of end inhibition adaptively varies in accordance with the local features in both end and side regions at both fine and coarse scales. Computationally, the end regions exert weaker inhibition on CRF at the locations where a meaningful contour more likely exists in the local texture and stronger inhibition at the locations where the texture elements are mainly stochastic. Our results demonstrate that by introducing such an adaptive mechanism into the model, the non-meaningful texture elements are removed dramatically, and at the same time, the object contours are extracted effectively. Besides the superior performance in contour detection over other inhibition-based models, our model provides a better understanding of the roles of nCRF and has potential applications in computer vision and pattern recognition.
Bayesian symmetrical EEG/fMRI fusion with spatially adaptive priors.	In this paper, we propose a novel symmetrical EEG/fMRI fusion method which combines EEG and fMRI by means of a common generative model. We use a total variation (TV) prior to model the spatial distribution of the cortical current responses and hemodynamic response functions, and utilize spatially adaptive temporal priors to model their temporal shapes. The spatial adaptivity of the prior model allows for adaptation to the local characteristics of the estimated responses and leads to high estimation performance for the cortical current distribution and the hemodynamic response functions. We utilize a Bayesian formulation with a variational Bayesian framework and obtain a fully automatic fusion algorithm. Simulations with synthetic data and experiments with real data from a multimodal study on face perception demonstrate the performance of the proposed method.
Functional magnetic resonance inverse imaging of human visuomotor systems using eigenspace linearly constrained minimum amplitude (eLCMA) beamformer.	Recently proposed dynamic magnetic resonance (MR) inverse imaging (InI) is a novel parallel imaging reconstruction technique capable of improving the temporal resolution of blood-oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) contrast functional MRI (fMRI) to the order of milliseconds at the cost of moderate spatial resolution. Volumetric InI reconstructs spatial information from projection data by solving ill-posed inverse problems using simultaneous acquisitions from a RF coil array. Previously a spatial filtering technique based on linearly constrained minimum variance (LCMV) beamformer was suggested to localize the hemodynamic changes of dynamic InI data with improved spatial resolution and sensitivity. Here we report an advancement of the spatial filtering method, which combines the eigenspace projection of the measured data and the L1-norm minimization of the spatial filters' output noise amplitude, to further improve the detection power of BOLD contrast fMRI data. Using numerical simulation and in vivo data, we demonstrate that this eigenspace linearly constrained minimum amplitude (eLCMA) beamformer can reconstruct spatiotemporal hemodynamic signals with high statistical significance values and high spatial resolution in event-related two-choice reaction time visuomotor experiments.
Decoding the activity of neuronal populations in macaque primary visual cortex.	Visual function depends on the accuracy of signals carried by visual cortical neurons. Combining information across neurons should improve this accuracy because single neuron activity is variable. We examined the reliability of information inferred from populations of simultaneously recorded neurons in macaque primary visual cortex. We considered a decoding framework that computes the likelihood of visual stimuli from a pattern of population activity by linearly combining neuronal responses and tested this framework for orientation estimation and discrimination. We derived a simple parametric decoder assuming neuronal independence and a more sophisticated empirical decoder that learned the structure of the measured neuronal response distributions, including their correlated variability. The empirical decoder used the structure of these response distributions to perform better than its parametric variant, indicating that their structure contains critical information for sensory decoding. These results show how neuronal responses can best be used to inform perceptual decision-making.
Population receptive fields of ON and OFF thalamic inputs to an orientation column in visual cortex.	The primary visual cortex of primates and carnivores is organized into columns of neurons with similar preferences for stimulus orientation, but the developmental origin and function of this organization are still matters of debate. We found that the orientation preference of a cortical column is closely related to the population receptive field of its ON and OFF thalamic inputs. The receptive field scatter from the thalamic inputs was more limited than previously thought and matched the average receptive field size of neurons at the input layers of cortex. Moreover, the thalamic population receptive field (calculated as ON - OFF average) had separate ON and OFF subregions, similar to cortical neurons in layer 4, and provided an accurate prediction of the preferred orientation of the column. These results support developmental models of orientation maps that are based on the receptive field arrangement of ON and OFF visual inputs to cortex.
Disparity-tuned population responses from human visual cortex.	We used source imaging of visual evoked potentials to measure neural population responses over a wide range of horizontal disparities (0.5-64 arcmin). The stimulus was a central disk that moved back and forth across the fixation plane at 2 Hz, surrounded either by binocularly uncorrelated dots (disparity noise) or by correlated dots presented in the fixation plane. Both disk and surround were composed of dynamic random dots to remove coherent monocular information. Disparity tuning was measured in five visual regions of interest (ROIs) [V1, human middle temporal area (hMT+), V4, lateral occipital complex (LOC), and V3A], defined in separate functional magnetic resonance imaging scans. The disparity tuning functions peaked between 2 and 16 arcmin for both types of surround in each ROI. Disparity tuning in the V1 ROI was unaffected by the type of surround, but surround correlation altered both the amplitude and phase of the disparity responses in the other ROIs. Response amplitude increased when the disk was in front of the surround in the V3A and LOC ROIs, indicating that these areas encode figure-ground relationships and object convexity. The correlated surround produced a consistent phase lag at the second harmonic in the hMT+ and V4 ROIs without a change in amplitude, while in the V3A ROI, both phase and amplitude effects were observed. Sensitivity to disparity context is thus widespread in visual cortex, but the dynamics of these contextual interactions differ across regions.
Stress potentiates early and attenuates late stages of visual processing.	Stress can fundamentally alter neural responses to incoming information. Recent research suggests that stress and anxiety shift the balance of attention away from a task-directed mode, governed by prefrontal cortex, to a sensory-vigilance mode, governed by the amygdala and other threat-sensitive regions. A key untested prediction of this framework is that stress exerts dissociable effects on different stages of information processing. This study exploited the temporal resolution afforded by event-related potentials to disentangle the impact of stress on vigilance, indexed by early perceptual activity, from its impact on task-directed cognition, indexed by later postperceptual activity in humans. Results indicated that threat of shock amplified stress, measured using retrospective ratings and concurrent facial electromyography. Stress also double-dissociated early sensory-specific processing from later task-directed processing of emotionally neutral stimuli: stress amplified N1 (184-236 ms) and attenuated P3 (316-488 ms) activity. This demonstrates that stress can have strikingly different consequences at different processing stages. Consistent with recent suggestions, stress amplified earlier extrastriate activity in a manner consistent with vigilance for threat (N1), but disrupted later activity associated with the evaluation of task-relevant information (P3). These results provide a novel basis for understanding how stress can modulate information processing in everyday life and stress-sensitive disorders.
Attention doesn't slide: spatiotopic updating after eye movements instantiates a new, discrete attentional locus.	During natural vision, eye movements can drastically alter the retinotopic (eye-centered) coordinates of locations and objects, yet the spatiotopic (world-centered) percept remains stable. Maintaining visuospatial attention in spatiotopic coordinates requires updating of attentional representations following each eye movement. However, this updating is not instantaneous; attentional facilitation temporarily lingers at the previous retinotopic location after a saccade, a phenomenon known as the retinotopic attentional trace. At various times after a saccade, we probed attention at an intermediate location between the retinotopic and spatiotopic locations to determine whether a single locus of attentional facilitation slides progressively from the previous retinotopic location to the appropriate spatiotopic location, or whether retinotopic facilitation decays while a new, independent spatiotopic locus concurrently becomes active. Facilitation at the intermediate location was not significant at any time, suggesting that top-down attention can result in enhancement of discrete retinotopic and spatiotopic locations without passing through intermediate locations.
Decline of selectivity of V1 neurons to visual stimulus spatial frequencies in old cats.	To examine whether the selectivity of visual cortical neurons to stimulus spatial frequencies would be affected by aging in cats.
Direction and speed tuning to visual motion in cortical areas MT and MSTd during smooth pursuit eye movements.	When tracking a moving target in the natural world with pursuit eye movement, our visual system must compensate for the self-induced retinal slip of the visual features in the background to enable us to perceive their actual motion. We previously reported that the speed of the background stimulus in space is represented by dorsal medial superior temporal (MSTd) neurons in the monkey cortex, which compensate for retinal image motion resulting from eye movements when the direction of the pursuit and background motion are parallel to the preferred direction of each neuron. To further characterize the compensation observed in the MSTd responses to the background motion, we recorded single unit activities in cortical areas middle temporal (MT) and MSTd, and we selected neurons responsive to a large-field visual stimulus. We studied their responses to the large-field stimulus in the background while monkeys pursued a moving target and while fixated a stationary target. We investigated whether compensation for retinal image motion of the background depended on the speed of pursuit. We also asked whether the directional selectivity of each neuron in relation to the external world remained the same even during pursuit and whether compensation for retinal image motion occurred irrespective of the direction of the pursuit. We found that the majority of the MSTd neurons responded to the visual motion in space by compensating for the image motion on the retina resulting from the pursuit regardless of pursuit speed and direction, whereas most of the MT neurons responded in relation to the genuine retinal image motion.
Stimulus saliency modulates pre-attentive processing speed in human visual cortex.	The notion of a saliency-based processing architecture [1] underlying human vision is central to a number of current theories of visual selective attention [e.g., 2]. On this view, focal-attention is guided by an overall-saliency map of the scene, which integrates (sums) signals from pre-attentive sensory feature-contrast computations (e.g., for color, motion, etc.). By linking the Posterior Contralateral Negativity (PCN) component to reaction time (RT) performance, we tested one specific prediction of such salience summation models: expedited shifts of focal-attention to targets with low, as compared to high, target-distracter similarity. For two feature-dimensions (color and orientation), we observed decreasing RTs with increasing target saliency. Importantly, this pattern was systematically mirrored by the timing, as well as amplitude, of the PCN. This pattern demonstrates that visual saliency is a key determinant of the time it takes for focal-attention to be engaged onto the target item, even when it is just a feature singleton.
Dynamic changes in superior temporal sulcus connectivity during perception of noisy audiovisual speech.	Humans are remarkably adept at understanding speech, even when it is contaminated by noise. Multisensory integration may explain some of this ability: combining independent information from the auditory modality (vocalizations) and the visual modality (mouth movements) reduces noise and increases accuracy. Converging evidence suggests that the superior temporal sulcus (STS) is a critical brain area for multisensory integration, but little is known about its role in the perception of noisy speech. Behavioral studies have shown that perceptual judgments are weighted by the reliability of the sensory modality: more reliable modalities are weighted more strongly, even if the reliability changes rapidly. We hypothesized that changes in the functional connectivity of STS with auditory and visual cortex could provide a neural mechanism for perceptual reliability weighting. To test this idea, we performed five blood oxygenation level-dependent functional magnetic resonance imaging and behavioral experiments in 34 healthy subjects. We found increased functional connectivity between the STS and auditory cortex when the auditory modality was more reliable (less noisy) and increased functional connectivity between the STS and visual cortex when the visual modality was more reliable, even when the reliability changed rapidly during presentation of successive words. This finding matched the results of a behavioral experiment in which the perception of incongruent audiovisual syllables was biased toward the more reliable modality, even with rapidly changing reliability. Changes in STS functional connectivity may be an important neural mechanism underlying the perception of noisy speech.
Spatial non-homogeneity of the antagonistic surround in motion perception.	At high contrast, duration thresholds for motion direction discrimination deteriorate with increasing stimulus size. This counterintuitive result has been explained by the center-surround antagonism present in the neurons of visual area MT. Conversely, at very low contrast, direction discrimination improves with increasing size, a result that has been explained by spatial summation. In this investigation, we study the effects of stimulus shape and contrast on center-surround antagonism. Using adaptive Bayesian staircases, we measured duration thresholds of 5 subjects for vertically oriented Gabor patches of 1 cycle/deg with two types of oval Gaussian windows, one vertically elongated (Sx = 0.35, Sy = 2.5 deg) and other horizontally elongated (Sx = 2.5, Sy = 0.35 deg) moving rightward or leftward at a speed of 2 deg/s. We found that at high contrast (92%) duration thresholds were lower for vertically than horizontally elongated windows. However, at low contrast (2.8%), we found that duration thresholds were lower for horizontally than vertically elongated windows. These asymmetric results mirror the spatial non-homogeneity of the antagonistic surround found in MT neurons and suggest that the underlying center-surround antagonism is stronger along the direction of motion.
Path dissociation of visual signals entering the cortex: disparity, contour orientation and position.	Whether position and orientation shifts induced by monocular context also act as a disparity for purposes of stereoscopy was investigated experimentally in order to examine the extent to which lateral spatial localization and stereoscopic depth share circuitry. A monocular tilt illusion in a line does not lead to a commensurate depth tilt of that line in binocular view, nor does a position shift in a bisection task caused by a gap within monocular dynamic random noise produce the commensurate depth displacement. Interocular transfer of monocularly-induced shifts, which might explain such findings, was eliminated as a factor. The results can therefore be interpreted as indicators of channeling and ordering of spatial signals paths in the visual cortex and imply that two-dimensional contextual interactions operate at a processing level beyond where disparity has already been extracted.
Development of human visual function.	By 1985 newly devised behavioral and electrophysiological techniques had been used to track development of infants' acuity, contrast sensitivity and binocularity, and for clinical evaluation of developing visual function. This review focus on advances in the development and assessment of infant vision in the following 25 years. Infants' visual cortical function has been studied through selectivity for orientation, directional motion and binocular disparity, and the control of subcortical oculomotor mechanisms in fixation shifts and optokinetic nystagmus, leading to a model of increasing cortical dominance over subcortical pathways. Neonatal face processing remains a challenge for this model. Recent research has focused on development of integrative processing (hyperacuity, texture segmentation, and sensitivity to global form and motion coherence) in extra-striate visual areas, including signatures of dorsal and ventral stream processing. Asynchronies in development of these two streams may be related to their differential vulnerability in both acquired and genetic disorders. New methods and approaches to clinical disorders are reviewed, in particular the increasing focus on paediatric neurology as well as ophthalmology. Visual measures in early infancy in high-risk children are allowing measures not only of existing deficits in infancy but prediction of later visual and cognitive outcome. Work with early cataract and later recovery from blinding disorders has thrown new light on the plasticity of the visual system and its limitations. The review concludes with a forward look to future opportunities provided by studies of development post infancy, new imaging and eye tracking methods, and sampling infants' visual ecology.
Involvement of low-level visual areas in hemispheric superiority for face processing.	Previous studies on laterality in face processing have indicated superiority of the right hemisphere in discriminating and recognizing faces; however, the reasons for this feature are poorly understood. We employed functional MRI (fMRI) to elucidate the origin of this feature and used a paired-stimulus paradigm in which face pairs were presented unilaterally at the left or right visual hemifield of the participants. Each face in a pair was at a different position in the visual field. Refractory suppression in the fMRI response was observed bilaterally at the fusiform face area (FFA) for the same face pairs when pictures were presented in the left visual hemifield. In contrast, suppression was observed bilaterally at the FFA for the different as well as for the same face pairs when pictures were presented in the right visual hemifield. This pattern indicated inferior discrimination ability for paired stimuli presented to the right visual hemifield. These observations, along with changes in bilaterally interlocked responses at the FFA, suggest that low-level visual areas, and not high-level face areas, are strongly associated with the superiority of the right hemisphere in face processing.
A supervised visual model for finding regions of interest in basal cell carcinoma images.	This paper introduces a supervised learning method for finding diagnostic regions of interest in histopathological images. The method is based on the cognitive process of visual selection of relevant regions that arises during a pathologist's image examination. The proposed strategy emulates the interaction of the visual cortex areas V1, V2 and V4, being the V1 cortex responsible for assigning local levels of relevance to visual inputs while the V2 cortex gathers together these small regions according to some weights modulated by the V4 cortex, which stores some learned rules. This novel strategy can be considered as a complex mix of "bottom-up" and "top-down" mechanisms, integrated by calculating a unique index inside each region. The method was evaluated on a set of 338 images in which an expert pathologist had drawn the Regions of Interest. The proposed method outperforms two state-of-the-art methods devised to determine Regions of Interest (RoIs) in natural images. The quality gain with respect to an adaptated Itti's model which found RoIs was 3.6 dB in average, while with respect to the Achanta's proposal was 4.9 dB.
On the road to invariant object recognition: how cortical area V2 transforms absolute to relative disparity during 3D vision.	Invariant recognition of objects depends on a hierarchy of cortical stages that build invariance gradually. Binocular disparity computations are a key part of this transformation. Cortical area V1 computes absolute disparity, which is the horizontal difference in retinal location of an image in the left and right foveas. Many cells in cortical area V2 compute relative disparity, which is the difference in absolute disparity of two visible features. Relative, but not absolute, disparity is invariant under both a disparity change across a scene and vergence eye movements. A neural network model is introduced which predicts that shunting lateral inhibition of disparity-sensitive layer 4 cells in V2 causes a peak shift in cell responses that transforms absolute disparity from V1 into relative disparity in V2. This inhibitory circuit has previously been implicated in contrast gain control, divisive normalization, selection of perceptual groupings, and attentional focusing. The model hereby links relative disparity to other visual functions and thereby suggests new ways to test its mechanistic basis. Other brain circuits are reviewed wherein lateral inhibition causes a peak shift that influences behavioral responses.
mGluR5 and NMDA receptors drive the experience- and activity-dependent NMDA receptor NR2B to NR2A subunit switch.	In cerebral cortex there is a developmental switch from NR2B- to NR2A-containing NMDA receptors (NMDARs) driven by activity and sensory experience. This subunit switch alters NMDAR function, influences synaptic plasticity, and its dysregulation is associated with neurological disorders. However, the mechanisms driving the subunit switch are not known. Here, we show in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons that the NR2B to NR2A switch driven acutely by activity requires activation of NMDARs and mGluR5, involves PLC, Ca(2+) release from IP(3)R-dependent stores, and PKC activity. In mGluR5 knockout mice the developmental NR2B-NR2A switch in CA1 is deficient. Moreover, in visual cortex of mGluR5 knockout mice, the NR2B-NR2A switch evoked invivo by visual experience is absent. Thus, we establish that mGluR5 and NMDARs are required for the activity-dependent NR2B-NR2A switch and play a critical role in experience-dependent regulation of NMDAR subunit composition invivo.
Inter-area correlations in the ventral visual pathway reflect feature integration.	During object perception, the brain integrates simple features into representations of complex objects. A perceptual phenomenon known as visual crowding selectively interferes with this process. Here, we use crowding to characterize a neural correlate of feature integration. Cortical activity was measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging, simultaneously in multiple areas of the ventral visual pathway (V1-V4 and the visual word form area, VWFA, which responds preferentially to familiar letters), while human subjects viewed crowded and uncrowded letters. Temporal correlations between cortical areas were lower for crowded letters than for uncrowded letters, especially between V1 and VWFA. These differences in correlation were retinotopically specific, and persisted when attention was diverted from the letters. But correlation differences were not evident when we substituted the letters with grating patches that were not crowded under our stimulus conditions. We conclude that inter-area correlations reflect feature integration and are disrupted by crowding. We propose that crowding may perturb the transformations between neural representations along the ventral pathway that underlie the integration of features into objects.
Face inversion reduces the persistence of global form and its neural correlates.	Face inversion produces a detrimental effect on face recognition. The extent to which the inversion of faces and other kinds of objects influences the perceptual binding of visual information into global forms is not known. We used a behavioral method and functional MRI (fMRI) to measure the effect of face inversion on visual persistence, a type of perceptual memory that reflects sustained awareness of global form. We found that upright faces persisted longer than inverted versions of the same images; we observed a similar effect of inversion on the persistence of animal stimuli. This effect of inversion on persistence was evident in sustained fMRI activity throughout the ventral visual hierarchy, including the lateral occipital area (LO), two face-selective visual areas--the fusiform face area (FFA) and the occipital face area (OFA)--and several early visual areas. V1 showed the same initial fMRI activation to upright and inverted forms but this activation lasted longer for upright stimuli. The inversion effect on persistence-related fMRI activity in V1 and other retinotopic visual areas demonstrates that higher-tier visual areas influence early visual processing via feedback. This feedback effect on figure-ground processing is sensitive to the orientation of the figure.
Modulation of activity in human visual area V1 during memory masking.	Neurons in the primary visual cortex, V1, are specialized for the processing of elemental features of the visual stimulus, such as orientation and spatial frequency. Recent fMRI evidence suggest that V1 neurons are also recruited in visual perceptual memory; a number of studies using multi-voxel pattern analysis have successfully decoded stimulus-specific information from V1 activity patterns during the delay phase in memory tasks. However, consistent fMRI signal modulations reflecting the memory process have not yet been demonstrated. Here, we report evidence, from three subjects, that the low V1 BOLD activity during retention of low-level visual features is caused by competing interactions between neural populations coding for different values along the spectrum of the dimension remembered. We applied a memory masking paradigm in which the memory representation of a masker stimulus interferes with a delayed spatial frequency discrimination task when its frequency differs from the discriminanda with 1 octave and found that impaired behavioral performance due to masking is reflected in weaker V1 BOLD signals. This cross-channel inhibition in V1 only occurs with retinotopic overlap between the masker and the sample stimulus of the discrimination task. The results suggest that memory for spatial frequency is a local process in the retinotopically organized visual cortex.
Visual attention: the past 25 years.	This review focuses on covert attention and how it alters early vision. I explain why attention is considered a selective process, the constructs of covert attention, spatial endogenous and exogenous attention, and feature-based attention. I explain how in the last 25 years research on attention has characterized the effects of covert attention on spatial filters and how attention influences the selection of stimuli of interest. This review includes the effects of spatial attention on discriminability and appearance in tasks mediated by contrast sensitivity and spatial resolution; the effects of feature-based attention on basic visual processes, and a comparison of the effects of spatial and feature-based attention. The emphasis of this review is on psychophysical studies, but relevant electrophysiological and neuroimaging studies and models regarding how and where neuronal responses are modulated are also discussed.
A neural basis for real-world visual search in human occipitotemporal cortex.	Mammals are highly skilled in rapidly detecting objects in cluttered natural environments, a skill necessary for survival. What are the neural mechanisms mediating detection of objects in natural scenes? Here, we use human brain imaging to address the role of top-down preparatory processes in the detection of familiar object categories in real-world environments. Brain activity was measured while participants were preparing to detect highly variable depictions of people or cars in natural scenes that were new to the participants. The preparation to detect objects of the target category, in the absence of visual input, evoked activity patterns in visual cortex that resembled the response to actual exemplars of the target category. Importantly, the selectivity of multivoxel preparatory activity patterns in object-selective cortex (OSC) predicted target detection performance. By contrast, preparatory activity in early visual cortex (V1) was negatively related to search performance. Additional behavioral results suggested that the dissociation between OSC and V1 reflected the use of different search strategies, linking OSC preparatory activity to relatively abstract search preparation and V1 to more specific imagery-like preparation. Finally, whole-brain searchlight analyses revealed that, in addition to OSC, response patterns in medial prefrontal cortex distinguished the target categories based on the search cues alone, suggesting that this region may constitute a top-down source of preparatory activity observed in visual cortex. These results indicate that in naturalistic situations, when the precise visual characteristics of target objects are not known in advance, preparatory activity at higher levels of the visual hierarchy selectively mediates visual search.
Word intelligibility and age predict visual cortex activity during word listening.	The distractibility that older adults experience when listening to speech in challenging conditions has been attributed in part to reduced inhibition of irrelevant information within and across sensory systems. Whereas neuroimaging studies have shown that younger adults readily suppress visual cortex activation when listening to auditory stimuli, it is unclear the extent to which declining inhibition in older adults results in reduced suppression or compensatory engagement of other sensory cortices. The current functional magnetic resonance imaging study examined the effects of age and stimulus intelligibility in a word listening task. Across all participants, auditory cortex was engaged when listening to words. However, increasing age and declining word intelligibility had independent and spatially similar effects: both were associated with increasing engagement of visual cortex. Visual cortex activation was not explained by age-related differences in vascular reactivity but rather auditory and visual cortices were functionally connected across word listening conditions. The nature of this correlation changed with age: younger adults deactivated visual cortex when activating auditory cortex, middle-aged adults showed no relation, and older adults synchronously activated both cortices. These results suggest that age and stimulus integrity are additive modulators of crossmodal suppression and activation.
Top-down dimensional weight set determines the capture of visual attention: evidence from the PCN component.	Visual search for feature singletons is slowed when a task-irrelevant, but more salient distracter singleton is concurrently presented. While there is a consensus that this distracter interference effect can be influenced by internal system settings, it remains controversial at what stage of processing this influence starts to affect visual coding. Advocates of the "stimulus-driven" view maintain that the initial sweep of visual processing is entirely driven by physical stimulus attributes and that top-down settings can bias visual processing only after selection of the most salient item. By contrast, opponents argue that top-down expectancies can alter the initial selection priority, so that focal attention is "not automatically" shifted to the location exhibiting the highest feature contrast. To precisely trace the allocation of focal attention, we analyzed the Posterior-Contralateral-Negativity (PCN) in a task in which the likelihood (expectancy) with which a distracter occurred was systematically varied. Our results show that both high (vs. low) distracter expectancy and experiencing a distracter on the previous trial speed up the timing of the target-elicited PCN. Importantly, there was no distracter-elicited PCN, indicating that participants did not shift attention to the distracter before selecting the target. This pattern unambiguously demonstrates that preattentive vision is top-down modifiable.
The neural bases of grapheme-color synesthesia are not localized in real color-sensitive areas.	The subjective experience of color by synesthetes when viewing achromatic letters and numbers supposedly relates to real color experience, as exemplified by the recruitment of the V4 color center observed in some brain imaging studies. Phenomenological reports and psychophysics tests indicate, however, that both experiences are different. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging, we tried to precise the degree of coactivation by real and synesthetic colors, by evaluating each color center individually, and applying adaptation protocols across real and synesthetic colors. We also looked for structural differences between synesthetes and nonsynesthetes. In 10 synesthetes, we found that color areas and retinotopic areas were not activated by synesthetic colors, whatever the strength of synesthetic associations measured objectively for each subject. Voxel-based morphometry revealed no white matter (WM) or gray matter difference in those regions when compared with 25 control subjects. But synesthetes had more WM in the retrosplenial cortex bilaterally. The joint coding of real and synesthetic colors, if it exists, must therefore be distributed rather than localized in the visual cortex. Alternatively, the key to synesthetic color experience might not lie in the color system.
Age related changes to perceptual surround suppression of moving stimuli.	Perceptual analogues of centre-surround suppression have been applied as indirect measures of cortical inhibitory function in several clinical disorders. Two tasks have been used: a centre-surround contrast perception task and a motion direction discrimination task, where the stimulus size and contrast is varied to measure surround suppression effects. The tasks are markedly different, yet previous literature implies that both measures indirectly assess inhibitory function and that results will be complementary. This is not the case for age-related effects on surround suppression, however, as previous reports using the different measures are conflicting. Here we use a low-spatial frequency, drifting grating version of the centre-surround contrast perception task, and compare results to those obtained with the motion direction task in a single group of older observers. Older adults demonstrate significantly increased perceptual surround suppression of contrast for drifting, high contrast stimuli. Using the motion discrimination task, older observers showed similar amounts of surround suppression for the largest stimulus. This study confirms that visual surround suppression is altered by ageing. The complexity of neuronal systems involved in centre-surround interactions makes it unlikely that a single perceptual task will be sufficient to describe the effects of clinical disorders on surround suppression.
Vivid visual mental imagery in the absence of the primary visual cortex.	The role of the primary visual cortex in visual mental imagery has provided significant debate in the imagery literature. Functional neuroimaging studies show considerable variation depending on task and technique. Patient studies can be difficult to interpret due to the diverse nature of cortical damage. The type of cortical damage in patient SBR is exceedingly rare as it is restricted to the gray matter of the calcarine sulcus. In this study, we show that in spite of his near-complete cortical blindness, SBR exhibits vivid visual mental imagery both behaviorally and when measured with functional magnetic resonance imaging. The pattern of cortical activation to visual mental imagery in SBR is indistinguishable from individual sighted subjects, in contrast to the visual perceptual responses, which are greatly attenuated.
Visual pathways serving motion detection in the mammalian brain.	Motion perception is the process through which one gathers information on the dynamic visual world, in terms of the speed and movement direction of its elements. Motion sensation takes place from the retinal light sensitive elements, through the visual thalamus, the primary and higher visual cortices. In the present review we aim to focus on the extrageniculo-extrastriate cortical and subcortical visual structures of the feline and macaque brain and discuss their functional role in visual motion perception. Special attention is paid to the ascending tectofugal system that may serve for detection of the visual environment during self-motion.
Effect of Grade I and II intraventricular hemorrhage on visuocortical function in very low birth weight infants.	The neurological outcome for infants with Grade I/II intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) is debated. The aim of this study was to determine whether very low birth weight infants (VLBW, <1500 g) with Grade I/II (IVH) have altered visuocortical activity compared with infants  with no IVH. We assessed the quantitative swept parameter visual evoked potential (sVEP) responses evoked by three different visual stimuli. Data from 52 VLBW infants were compared with data from 13 infants with Grade I or II IVH, enrolled at 5-7 months corrected age. Acuity thresholds  and suprathreshold response amplitudes were compared. Grating acuity (GA), contrast sensitivity (CS) and vernier acuity (VA) were each worse in the Grade I/II IVH compared with the no IVH groups (8.24 cpd in IVH group vs. 13.07 cpd in no IVH group for GA; 1.44% vs. 1.18%  for CS and 1.55 arcmin vs. 0.58 arcmin for VA). The slopes of the response amplitude for CS and VA were significantly lower in IVH infants. The spatial frequency tuning function was shifted downward on the spatial frequency axis, without a change in slope. These results indicate that  Grade I/II IVH are associated with deleterious effects on cortical vision development and function.
Dynamics of spatial frequency tuning in mouse visual cortex.	Neuronal spatial frequency tuning in primary visual cortex (V1) substantially changes over time. In both primates and cats, a shift of the neuron's preferred spatial frequency has been observed from low frequencies early in the response to higher frequencies later in the response. In most cases, this shift is accompanied by a decreased tuning bandwidth. Recently, the mouse has gained attention as a suitable animal model to study the basic mechanisms of visual information processing, demonstrating similarities in basic neuronal response properties between rodents and highly visual mammals. Here we report the results of extracellular single-unit recordings in the anesthetized mouse where we analyzed the dynamics of spatial frequency tuning in V1 and the lateromedial area LM within the lateral extrastriate area V2L. We used a reverse-correlation technique to demonstrate that, as in monkeys and cats, the preferred spatial frequency of mouse V1 neurons shifted from low to higher frequencies later in the response. However, this was not correlated with a clear selectivity increase or enhanced suppression of responses to low spatial frequencies. These results suggest that the neuronal connections responsible for the temporal shift in spatial frequency tuning may considerably differ between mice and monkeys.
The relationship between voltage-sensitive dye imaging signals and spiking activity of neural populations in primate V1.	Voltage-sensitive dye imaging (VSDI) is a powerful technique for measuring neural population responses from a large cortical region simultaneously with millisecond temporal resolution and columnar spatial resolution. However, the relationship between the average VSDI signal and the average spiking activity of neural populations is largely unknown. To better understand this relationship, we compared visual responses measured from V1 of behaving monkeys using VSDI and single-unit electrophysiology. We found large and systematic differences between position and orientation tuning properties obtained with these two techniques. We then determined that a simple computational model could explain these tuning differences. This model, together with our experimental results, allowed us to estimate the quantitative relationship between the average VSDI signal and local spiking activity. We found that this relationship is similar to the previously reported nonlinear relationship between average membrane potential and spike rate in single V1 neurons, suggesting that VSDI signals are dominated by subthreshold synaptic activity. This model, together with the VSDI measured maps for spatial position (retinotopy) and orientation, also allowed us to estimate the spatial integration area over which neural responses contribute to the VSDI signal at a given location. We found that the VSDI-integration area is consistent with a Gaussian envelope with a space constant of 230 m. Finally, we show how this model and estimated parameters can be used to predict the pattern of population responses at the level of spiking activity from VSDI responses.
The influence of surround suppression on adaptation effects in primary visual cortex.	Adaptation, the prolonged presentation of stimuli, has been used to probe mechanisms of visual processing in physiological, imaging, and perceptual studies. Previous neurophysiological studies have measured adaptation effects by using stimuli tailored to evoke robust responses in individual neurons. This approach provides an incomplete view of how an adapter alters the representation of sensory stimuli by a population of neurons with diverse functional properties. We implanted microelectrode arrays in primary visual cortex (V1) of macaque monkeys and measured orientation tuning and contrast sensitivity in populations of neurons before and after prolonged adaptation. Whereas previous studies in V1 have reported that adaptation causes stimulus-specific suppression of responsivity and repulsive shifts in tuning preference, we have found that adaptation can also lead to response facilitation and shifts in tuning toward the adapter. To explain this range of effects, we have proposed and tested a simple model that employs stimulus-specific suppression in both the receptive field and the spatial surround. The predicted effects on tuning depend on the relative drive provided by the adapter to these two receptive field components. Our data reveal that adaptation can have a much richer repertoire of effects on neuronal responsivity and tuning than previously considered and suggest an intimate mechanistic relationship between spatial and temporal contextual effects.
Effect of different stimulus configurations on the visual evoked potential (VEP).	The purpose of this study was to assess changes in the response profile of the pattern visual evoked potential (VEP) using three stimulus configurations simulating visual-field scotomas: central circular and central blank fields increasing incrementally in diameter from 1 to 15, hemi-field, and quadrant patterns. Five visually normal adult subjects (ages 22-68 years) were tested binocularly at 1 m for each stimulus configuration on 5 separate days. A checkerboard test pattern (64  64 black-and-white checks, 85% contrast, 64 cd/m(2) luminance, 20 s of stimulus duration, 2-Hz temporal frequency) was used. The group mean VEP amplitude increased in a linear manner with increase in the central circular diameter (y = 0.805x + 2.00; r = 0.986) and decrease in central blank field diameter (y = -0.769x + 16.22; r = 0.987). There was no significant change in latency in nearly all cases. The group mean coefficient of variability results indicated that the VEP amplitude was repeatable for the different stimulus configurations. The finding of VEP response linearity for the circular stimulus fields, and repeatability for all stimulus configurations, suggests that the clinician may be able to use the VEP technique with the suggested test patterns as a rapid and simple tool for objective assessment for several types of visual-field defects for a range of abnormal visual conditions and special populations.
Role of latency jittering correction in motion-onset VEP amplitude decay during prolonged visual stimulation.	Visual evoked potentials to motion-onset stimulation (M-VEPs) gradually attenuate in amplitude during examination. The observed decline in averaged responses can be caused by decreases in single response magnitudes and/or increased variability in a response delays, that is, latency jittering. To illuminate the origins of the suppression of M-VEPs during stimuli repetition, we used correlation technique to estimate an upper bound of possible latency jittering of single sweeps and we evaluated the effect of its correction on the amplitudes of three M-VEP dominant peaks P1, N2 and P3. During prolonged visual motion stimulation, the variability of corrective latency shifts in the occipital region increased (r = 0.35: 0.44) and the number of single responses corresponding to the average curve declined in occipital and parietal derivations (r = -0.48: -0.62). While the P1 peak amplitude did not exhibit any time-specific behaviour, the N2 amplitude exhibited a significant decay of 29.4% that was partially reduced to 16.6% in the central occipital derivation by the latency jitter and non-correspondence corrections. The strongest attenuation (32.7%) was observed in the P3 amplitude and was less sensitive to the corrections, dropping only to 27.9%. The main part of the response suppression to repeated motion stimulation was caused by amplitude drop and represents non-stationary process that likely correspond to a fatigue model. The rise of variability in latency jitter correction and the reduction in single responses correlated with the M-VEP were significant factors associated with prolonged motion stimulation. The relation of these parameters to a hypothetical veridical response is ambiguous and can be caused by a time shift of the response or by a change of signal-to-noise ratio. Using selective averaging and latency jitter correction, the effect of response suppression was partially removed.
Human neural responses involved in spatial pooling of locally ambiguous motion signals.	Early visual motion signals are local and one-dimensional (1-D). For specification of global two-dimensional (2-D) motion vectors, the visual system should appropriately integrate these signals across orientation and space. Previous neurophysiological studies have suggested that this integration process consists of two computational steps (estimation of local 2-D motion vectors, followed by their spatial pooling), both being identified in the area MT. Psychophysical findings, however, suggest that under certain stimulus conditions, the human visual system can also compute mathematically correct global motion vectors from direct pooling of spatially distributed 1-D motion signals. To study the neural mechanisms responsible for this novel 1-D motion pooling, we conducted human magnetoencephalography (MEG) and functional MRI experiments using a global motion stimulus comprising multiple moving Gabors (global-Gabor motion). In the first experiment, we measured MEG and blood oxygen level-dependent responses while changing motion coherence of global-Gabor motion. In the second experiment, we investigated cortical responses correlated with direction-selective adaptation to the global 2-D motion, not to local 1-D motions. We found that human MT complex (hMT+) responses show both coherence dependency and direction selectivity to global motion based on 1-D pooling. The results provide the first evidence that hMT+ is the locus of 1-D motion pooling, as well as that of conventional 2-D motion pooling.
Elementary visual hallucinations and their relationships to neural pattern-forming mechanisms.	An extraordinary variety of experimental (e.g., flicker, magnetic fields) and clinical (epilepsy, migraine) conditions give rise to a surprisingly common set of elementary hallucinations, including spots, geometric patterns, and jagged lines, some of which also have color, depth, motion, and texture. Many of these simple hallucinations fall into a small number of perceptual geometries-the Klver forms-that (via a nonlinear mapping from retina to cortex) correspond to even simpler sets of oriented stripes of cortical activity (and their superpositions). Other simple hallucinations (phosphenes and fortification auras) are linked to the Klver forms and to pattern-forming cortical mechanisms by their spatial and temporal scales. The Klver cortical activity patterns are examples of self-organized pattern formation that arise from nonlinear dynamic interactions between excitatory and inhibitory cortical neurons; with reasonable modifications, this model accounts for a wide range of hallucinated patterns. The Klver cortical activity patterns are a subset of autonomous spatiotemporal cortical patterns, some of which have been studied with functional imaging techniques. Understanding the interaction of these intrinsic patterns with stimulus-driven cortical activity is an important problem in neuroscience. In line with this, hallucinatory pattern formation interacts with physical stimuli, and many conditions that induce hallucinations show interesting interactions with one another. Both types of interactions are predictable from neural and psychophysical principles such as localized processing, excitatory-inhibitory neural circuits, lateral inhibition, simultaneous and sequential contrast, saccadic suppression, and perceptual opponency. Elementary hallucinations arise from familiar mechanisms stimulated in unusual ways.
Direction-specific fMRI adaptation reveals the visual cortical network underlying the "Rotating Snakes" illusion.	The "Rotating Snakes" figure elicits a clear sense of anomalous motion in stationary repetitive patterns. We used an event-related fMRI adaptation paradigm to investigate cortical mechanisms underlying the illusory motion. Following an adapting stimulus (S1) and a blank period, a probe stimulus (S2) that elicited illusory motion either in the same or in the opposite direction was presented. Attention was controlled by a fixation task, and control experiments precluded explanations in terms of artefacts of local adaptation, afterimages, or involuntary eye movements. Recorded BOLD responses were smaller for S2 in the same direction than S2 in the opposite direction in V1-V4, V3A, and MT+, indicating direction-selective adaptation. Adaptation in MT+ was correlated with adaptation in V1 but not in V4. With possible downstream inheritance of adaptation, it is most likely that adaptation predominantly occurred in V1. The results extend our previous findings of activation in MT+ (I. Kuriki, H. Ashida, I. Murakami, and A. Kitaoka, 2008), revealing the activity of the cortical network for motion processing from V1 towards MT+. This provides evidence for the role of front-end motion detectors, which has been assumed in proposed models of the illusion.
Cathodal stimulation of human MT+ leads to elevated fMRI signal: a tDCS-fMRI study.	Transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) was reintroduced about a decade ago as a tool for inducing long-lasting changes in cortical excitability. Recently it has been shown that both motor and cognitive functions can be influenced by tDCS. Here, we tested the effect of tDCS on the blood-oxygen level dependent (BOLD) signal evoked by coherent visual motion using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI).
Aging effect in pattern, motion and cognitive visual evoked potentials.	An electrophysiological study on the effect of aging on the visual pathway and various levels of visual information processing (primary cortex, associate visual motion processing cortex and cognitive cortical areas) was performed. We examined visual evoked potentials (VEPs) to pattern-reversal, motion-onset (translation and radial motion) and visual stimuli with a cognitive task (cognitive VEPs - P300 wave) at luminance of 17 cd/m(2). The most significant age-related change in a group of 150 healthy volunteers (15-85 years of age) was the increase in the P300 wave latency (2 ms per 1 year of age). Delays of the motion-onset VEPs (0.47 ms/year in translation and 0.46 ms/year in radial motion) and the pattern-reversal VEPs (0.26 ms/year) and the reductions of their amplitudes with increasing subject age (primarily in P300) were also found to be significant. The amplitude of the motion-onset VEPs to radial motion remained the most constant parameter with increasing age. Age-related changes were stronger in males. Our results indicate that cognitive VEPs, despite larger variability of their parameters, could be a useful criterion for an objective evaluation of the aging processes within the CNS. Possible differences in aging between the motion-processing system and the form-processing system within the visual pathway might be indicated by the more pronounced delay in the motion-onset VEPs and by their preserved size for radial motion (a biologically significant variant of motion) compared to the changes in pattern-reversal VEPs.
The cortical eye proprioceptive signal modulates neural activity in higher-order visual cortex as predicted by the variation in visual sensitivity.	Whereas the links between eye movements and the shifts in visual attention are well established, less is known about how eye position affects the prioritization of visual space. It was recently observed that visual sensitivity varies with the direction of gaze and the level of excitability in the eye proprioceptive representation in human left somatosensory cortex (S1(EYE)), so that after 1Hz repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) over S1(EYE), targets presented nearer the center of the orbit are detected more accurately. Here we used whole-brain functional magnetic resonance imaging to map areas where S1(EYE)-rTMS affects the neural response evoked by retinally identical stimuli depending on the direction of rotation of the right eye. After S1(EYE)-rTMS, a single area in the left cuneus outside Brodmann Areas 17/18 showed an increased neuronal response to a right hemifield target when the right eye was rotated leftwards as compared with when it was rotated rightwards. This effect was larger after S1(EYE)-rTMS than after rTMS of a control area in the motor cortex. The neural response to retinally identical stimuli in this area could be predicted from the changes in visual detectability observed previously, but not from the location of the visual targets relative to the body. These results strongly argue for a modulatory connection from the eye proprioceptive area in the somatosensory cortex to the higher-order visual cortex. This connection may contribute to flexibly allocate priorities for visual perception depending on the proprioceptively signaled direction of gaze.
The deployment of visual attention during temporal integration: an electrophysiological investigation.	The deployment of attention during temporal integration was investigated with event-related potentials. Attentional selection of an integrated percept and an actual singleton were examined. Integration performance was related to modulations of the N2pc, N2, and P3 components. Singleton localization performance was reflected in N2pc and P3 only. Of note, the singleton N2pc developed and subsided earlier than the integration N2pc. The singleton P3 seemed to develop in a single deflection, while the integration P3 showed two more distinct deflections. Physical stimulus differences could not explain these results. The N2pc and N2 modulations showed that attending to an integrated percept is not slower per se, but does differ from attending to a singleton. Integrated percepts furthermore have special correlates in late stages of perception (i.e., the P3). These differences are linked to the unique demand to combine and represent successive stimuli.
Mechanistic modeling of vertebrate spatial contrast sensitivity and acuity at low luminance.	The validity of the Barten theoretical model for describing the vertebrate spatial contrast sensitivity function (CSF) and acuity at scotopic light levels has been examined. Although this model (which has its basis in signal modulation transfer theory) can successfully describe vertebrate CSF, and its relation to underlying visual neurophysiology at photopic light levels, significant discrepancies between theory and experimental data have been found at scotopic levels. It is shown that in order to describe scotopic CSF, the theory must be modified to account for important mechanistic changes, which occur as cone vision switches to rod vision. These changes are divided into photon management factors [changes in optical performance (for a dilated pupil), quantum efficiency, receptor sampling] and neural factors (changes in spatial integration area, neural noise, and lateral inhibition in the retina). Predictions of both scotopic CSF and acuity obtained from the modified theory were found to be in good agreement with experimental values obtained from the human, macaque, cat, and owl monkey. The last two species have rod densities particularly suited for scotopic conditions.
Development of an SSVEP-based BCI spelling system adopting a QWERTY-style LED keyboard.	In this study, we introduce a new mental spelling system based on steady-state visual evoked potential (SSVEP), adopting a QWERTY style layout keyboard with 30 LEDs flickering with different frequencies. The proposed electroencephalography (EEG)-based mental spelling system allows the users to spell one target character per each target selection, without the need for multiple step selections adopted by conventional SSVEP-based mental spelling systems. Through preliminary offline experiments and online experiments, we confirmed that human SSVEPs elicited by visual flickering stimuli with a frequency resolution of 0.1 Hz could be classified with classification accuracy high enough to be used for a practical brain-computer interface (BCI) system. During the preliminary offline experiments performed with five participants, we optimized various factors influencing the performance of the mental spelling system, such as distances between adjacent keys, light source arrangements, stimulating frequencies, recording electrodes, and visual angles. Additional online experiments were conducted with six participants to verify the feasibility of the optimized mental spelling system. The results of the online experiments were an average typing speed of 9.39 letters per minute (LPM) with an average success rate of 87.58%, corresponding to an average information transfer rate of 40.72 bits per minute, demonstrating the high performance of the developed mental spelling system. Indeed, the average typing speed of 9.39 LPM attained in this study was one of the best LPM results among those reported in previous BCI literatures.
Visual cortex responses to suprachoroidal electrical stimulation of the retina: effects of electrode return configuration.	A clinically effective retinal prosthesis must evoke localized phosphenes in a retinotopic manner in response to stimulation of each of the retinal electrodes, evoke brightness cues over a wide dynamic range and function within safe stimulus limits. The effects of varying return configuration for retinal stimulation are currently unknown. To investigate this, we implanted a flexible, 712 electrode array into the suprachoroidal space of normally-sighted, anesthetized cats. Multi-unit activity in the primary visual cortex was recorded in response to electrical stimulation using various return configurations: monopolar vitreous (MPV), common ground (CG), hexagonal (HX), monopolar remote (MPR) and bipolar (BP_N). MPV stimulation was found to be the most charge efficient and was most likely to induce cortical activity within safe charge limits. HX and CG stimulation were found to exhibit greater retinal selectivity compared to the MPV return at the expense of lower cortical yield and higher P50 charge levels, while cortical selectivity was unaffected by choice of return. Responses using MPR and widely spaced BP_N configurations were similar to those using the MPV return. These results suggest that choice of return configuration for a retinal prosthesis will be balanced between resolution and stimulation within safe charge limits.
A neuromorphic architecture for object recognition and motion anticipation using burst-STDP.	In this work we investigate the possibilities offered by a minimal framework of artificial spiking neurons to be deployed in silico. Here we introduce a hierarchical network architecture of spiking neurons which learns to recognize moving objects in a visual environment and determine the correct motor output for each object. These tasks are learned through both supervised and unsupervised spike timing dependent plasticity (STDP). STDP is responsible for the strengthening (or weakening) of synapses in relation to pre- and post-synaptic spike times and has been described as a Hebbian paradigm taking place both in vitro and in vivo. We utilize a variation of STDP learning, called burst-STDP, which is based on the notion that, since spikes are expensive in terms of energy consumption, then strong bursting activity carries more information than single (sparse) spikes. Furthermore, this learning algorithm takes advantage of homeostatic renormalization, which has been hypothesized to promote memory consolidation during NREM sleep. Using this learning rule, we design a spiking neural network architecture capable of object recognition, motion detection, attention towards important objects, and motor control outputs. We demonstrate the abilities of our design in a simple environment with distractor objects, multiple objects moving concurrently, and in the presence of noise. Most importantly, we show how this neural network is capable of performing these tasks using a simple leaky-integrate-and-fire (LIF) neuron model with binary synapses, making it fully compatible with state-of-the-art digital neuromorphic hardware designs. As such, the building blocks and learning rules presented in this paper appear promising for scalable fully neuromorphic systems to be implemented in hardware chips.
Initial neighborhood biases and the quality of motion stimulation jointly influence the rapid emergence of direction preference in visual cortex.	Visual experience plays a critical role in the development of direction-selective responses in ferret visual cortex. In visually naive animals, presentation of a bidirectional "training" stimulus induces rapid increases in the direction-selective responses of single neurons that can be predicted by small but significant direction biases that are present in neighboring neurons at the onset of stimulation. In this study we used in vivo two-photon imaging of calcium signals to further explore the contribution of visual experience to the emergence of direction- selective responses in ferret visual cortex. The first set of experiments was designed to determine whether visual experience is required for the development of the initial neighborhood bias. In animals that were dark-reared until the time of eye opening, we found that individual neurons exhibited weak direction-selective responses accompanied by a reduced but statistically significant neighborhood bias, indicating that both features arise without the need for visual experience. The second set of experiments used a unidirectional training stimulus to assess the relative roles of the neighborhood bias and visual experience in determining the direction preference that cortical neurons acquire during direction training. We found that neurons became more responsive to the trained direction even when they were located in regions of the cortex with an initial neighborhood bias for the direction opposite the training stimulus. Together, these results suggest an adaptive developmental strategy for the elaboration of direction-selective responses, one in which experience-independent mechanisms provide a symmetry-breaking seed for the instructive effects of visual experience.
Cortical circuits: layer 6 is a gain changer.	Stimulation of excitatory cells in layer six of mouse visual cortex results in net inhibition of the spiking of neurons in upper cortical layers; this ascending intra-cortical drive provides a mechanism for gain modulation of sensory-evoked responses.
Accurate planning of manual tracking requires a 3D visuomotor transformation of velocity signals.	Humans often perform visually guided arm movements in a dynamic environment. To accurately plan visually guided manual tracking movements, the brain should ideally transform the retinal velocity input into a spatially appropriate motor plan, taking the three-dimensional (3D) eye-head-shoulder geometry into account. Indeed, retinal and spatial target velocity vectors generally do not align because of different eye-head postures. Alternatively, the planning could be crude (based only on retinal information) and the movement corrected online using visual feedback. This study aims to investigate how accurate the motor plan generated by the central nervous system is. We computed predictions about the movement plan if the eye and head position are taken into account (spatial hypothesis) or not (retinal hypothesis). For the motor plan to be accurate, the brain should compensate for the head roll and resulting ocular counterroll as well as the misalignment between retinal and spatial coordinates when the eyes lie in oblique gaze positions. Predictions were tested on human subjects who manually tracked moving targets in darkness and were compared to the initial arm direction, reflecting the motor plan. Subjects spatially accurately tracked the target, although imperfectly. Therefore, the brain takes the 3D eye-head-shoulder geometry into account for the planning of visually guided manual tracking.
Selective attention to task-irrelevant emotional distractors is unaffected by the perceptual load associated with a foreground task.	A number of studies have shown that emotionally arousing stimuli are preferentially processed in the human brain. Whether or not this preference persists under increased perceptual load associated with a task at hand remains an open question. Here we manipulated two possible determinants of the attentional selection process, perceptual load associated with a foreground task and the emotional valence of concurrently presented task-irrelevant distractors. As a direct measure of sustained attentional resource allocation in early visual cortex we used steady-state visual evoked potentials (SSVEPs) elicited by distinct flicker frequencies of task and distractor stimuli. Subjects either performed a detection (low load) or discrimination (high load) task at a centrally presented symbol stream that flickered at 8.6 Hz while task-irrelevant neutral or unpleasant pictures from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS) flickered at a frequency of 12 Hz in the background of the stream. As reflected in target detection rates and SSVEP amplitudes to both task and distractor stimuli, unpleasant relative to neutral background pictures more strongly withdrew processing resources from the foreground task. Importantly, this finding was unaffected by the factor 'load' which turned out to be a weak modulator of attentional processing in human visual cortex.
Population receptive field dynamics in human visual cortex.	Seminal work in the early nineties revealed that the visual receptive field of neurons in cat primary visual cortex can change in location and size when artificial scotomas are applied. Recent work now suggests that these single neuron receptive field dynamics also pertain to the neuronal population receptive field (pRF) that can be measured in humans with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). To examine this further, we estimated the pRF in twelve healthy participants while masking the central portion of the visual field. We found that the pRF changes in location and size for two differently sized artificial scotomas, and that these pRF dynamics are most likely due to a combination of the neuronal receptive field position and size scatter as well as modulatory feedback signals from extrastriate visual areas.
Priming of control: implicit contextual cuing of top-down attentional set.	Cognitive models have long distinguished between "automatic" associative processes that can be triggered in a bottom-up fashion, and "controlled" processes, where internal goals guide information processing in a deliberate, top-down manner. However, recent behavioral studies have cast doubt on the validity of this dichotomy, showing that implicit contextual cues can modulate performance in a way suggestive of an associative triggering of specific top-down control states. Here, we harnessed functional magnetic resonance imaging in humans to test whether these behavioral findings truly reflect online, bottom-up priming of top-down attentional control settings. Using a flanker interference task where stimulus location cued the likelihood of incongruent trials, we found that the behavioral phenomenon of implicit, context-specific improvements in interference resolution was mirrored in hemodynamic activity in the medial superior parietal lobule (mSPL), previously implicated in voluntary (as opposed to primed) attention shifts. Moreover, the mSPL displayed context-specific functional coupling with visual regions involved in processing the flanker stimuli, and the modulation of the latter was predictive of the behavioral effects. Finally, the implementation of this contextual control was "on the fly," that is, it was primed online by a switch to the context associated with high conflict. These results suggest that top-down control states can be bound into episodic event representations and can subsequently be primed by other features of those representations. Together, our findings illustrate a more intimate link between associative and controlled processing than is traditionally assumed, and place the neural substrate of that linkage in the posterior parietal cortex.
Dynamics of macaque MT cell responses to grating triplets.	Neurons in area MT are sensitive to the direction of motion of gratings and of plaids made by summing 2 gratings moving in different directions. MT component direction-selective (CDS) neurons respond to the individual gratings of a plaid. Pattern direction-selective (PDS) neurons on the other hand, combine component information and respond selectively to the resulting pattern motion. Adding a third grating creates a "triplaid," which contains 3 grating and 3 plaid motions and is perceptually multistable. To examine how direction-selective mechanisms parse the motion signals in triplaids, we recorded MT responses of anesthetized and awake macaques to stimuli in which 3 identical moving gratings whose directions were separated by 120 were introduced in 3 successive epochs, going from grating to plaid to triplaid. CDS and PDS neurons-selected based on their responses to gratings and plaids-had strikingly different tuning properties in the triplaid epoch. CDS neurons were strongly tuned for the direction of motion of individual gratings, but PDS neurons nearly lost their selectivity for either the gratings or the plaids in the stimulus. We explain this reduced motion selectivity with a model that relates pattern selectivity of PDS neurons to a broad pooling of V1 afferents with a near-cosine weighting profile. Because PDS neurons signal both component and pattern motion in gratings and plaids, their reduced selectivity for motion in triplaids may be what makes these stimuli perceptually multistable.
Design of a noninvasive face mask for ocular occlusion in rats and assessment in a visual discrimination paradigm.	The rat visual system is structured such that the large (>90 %) majority of retinal ganglion axons reach the contralateral lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) and visual cortex (V1). This anatomical design allows for the relatively selective activation of one cerebral hemisphere under monocular viewing conditions. Here, we describe the design of a harness and face mask allowing simple and noninvasive monocular occlusion in rats. The harness is constructed from synthetic fiber (shoelace-type material) and fits around the girth region and neck, allowing for easy adjustments to fit rats of various weights. The face mask consists of soft rubber material that is attached to the harness by Velcro strips. Eyeholes in the mask can be covered by additional Velcro patches to occlude either one or both eyes. Rats readily adapt to wearing the device, allowing behavioral testing under different types of viewing conditions. We show that rats successfully acquire a water-maze-based visual discrimination task under monocular viewing conditions. Following task acquisition, interocular transfer was assessed. Performance with the previously occluded, "untrained" eye was impaired, suggesting that training effects were partially confined to one cerebral hemisphere. The method described herein provides a simple and noninvasive means to restrict visual input for studies of visual processing and learning in various rodent species.
Aging effects on collinear facilitation.	Normal aging has been shown to alter performance on several suprathreshold spatial tasks such as contour integration and perceptual measures of center-surround interactions. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of aging on collinear facilitation. Despite all related lateral interactions that are presumed to involve neural architecture within primary visual cortex, collinear facilitation differs from contour integration and surround suppression tasks in that it is a purely foveal, threshold phenomenon. Collinear facilitation was measured for 20 younger (19-31 years) and 15 older (59-71 years) adults with measures repeated over two identical test sessions. Contrast thresholds were measured for a central Gabor patch in the presence of flankers of varying interelement distances and orientations. A reduced magnitude of facilitation was found for the older observers. Our results demonstrate abnormalities of spatial interactions in older adults.
Primary visual cortex: awareness and blindsight.	The primary visual cortex (V1) is the principal telencephalic recipient of visual input in humans and monkeys. It is unique among cortical areas in that its destruction results in chronic blindness. However, certain patients with V1 damage, though lacking visual awareness, exhibit visually guided behavior: blindsight. This phenomenon, together with evidence from electrophysiological, neuroimaging, and psychophysical experiments, has led to speculation that V1 activity has a special or direct role in generating conscious perception. To explore this issue, this article reviews experiments that have used two powerful paradigms--stimulus-induced perceptual suppression and chronic V1 ablation--each of which disrupts the ability to perceive salient visual stimuli. Focus is placed on recent neurophysiological, behavioral, and functional imaging studies from the nonhuman primate that shed light on V1's role in conscious awareness. In addition, anatomical pathways that relay visual information to the cortex during normal vision and in blindsight are reviewed. Although the critical role of V1 in primate vision follows naturally from its position as a bottleneck of visual signals, little evidence supports its direct contribution to visual awareness.
Distinct sensory requirements for unimodal and cross-modal homeostatic synaptic plasticity.	Loss of a sensory modality elicits both unimodal changes in the deprived cortex and cross-modal alterations in the remaining sensory systems. Unimodal changes are proposed to recruit the deprived cortex for processing the remaining senses, while cross-modal changes are thought to refine processing of spared senses. Hence coordinated unimodal and cross-modal changes are likely beneficial. Despite this expectation, we report in mice that losing behaviorally relevant patterned vision is sufficient to trigger cross-modal synaptic changes in the primary somatosensory cortex barrel fields, but is insufficient to drive unimodal synaptic plasticity in visual cortex (V1), which requires a complete loss of visual activity. In addition, cross-modal changes depend on whisker inputs. Our results demonstrate that unimodal and cross-modal synaptic plasticity occur independently of each other and rely on distinct sensory requirements.
Categorical, yet graded--single-image activation profiles of human category-selective cortical regions.	Human inferior temporal cortex contains category-selective visual regions, including the fusiform face area (FFA) and the parahippocampal place area (PPA). These regions are defined by their greater category-average activation to the preferred category (faces and places, respectively) relative to nonpreferred categories. The approach of investigating category-average activation has left unclear to what extent category selectivity holds for individual object images. Here we investigate single-image activation profiles to address (1) whether each image from the preferred category elicits greater activation than any image outside the preferred category (categorical ranking), (2) whether there are activation differences within and outside the preferred category (gradedness), and (3) whether the activation profile falls off continuously across the category boundary or exhibits a discontinuity at the boundary (category step). We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to measure the activation elicited in the FFA and PPA by each of 96 object images from a wide range of categories, including faces and places, but also humans and animals, and natural and manmade objects. Results suggest that responses in FFA and PPA exhibit almost perfect categorical ranking, are graded within and outside the preferred category, and exhibit a category step. The gradedness within the preferred category was more pronounced in FFA; the category step was more pronounced in PPA. These findings support the idea that these regions have category-specific functions, but are also consistent with a distributed object representation emphasizing categories while still distinguishing individual images.
Retinotopic mapping of categorical and coordinate spatial relation processing in early visual cortex.	Spatial relations are commonly divided in two global classes. Categorical relations concern abstract relations which define areas of spatial equivalence, whereas coordinate relations are metric and concern exact distances. Categorical and coordinate relation processing are thought to rely on at least partially separate neurocognitive mechanisms, as reflected by differential lateralization patterns, in particular in the parietal cortex. In this study we address this textbook principle from a new angle. We studied retinotopic activation in early visual cortex, as a reflection of attentional distribution, in a spatial working memory task with either a categorical or a coordinate instruction. Participants were asked to memorize a dot position, with regard to a central cross, and to indicate whether a subsequent dot position matched the first dot position, either categorically (opposite quadrant of the cross) or coordinately (same distance to the centre of the cross). BOLD responses across the retinotopic maps of V1, V2, and V3 indicate that the spatial distribution of cortical activity was different for categorical and coordinate instructions throughout the retention interval; a more local focus was found during categorical processing, whereas focus was more global for coordinate processing. This effect was strongest for V3, approached significance in V2 and was absent in V1. Furthermore, during stimulus presentation the two instructions led to different levels of activation in V3 during stimulus encoding; a stronger increase in activity was found for categorical processing. Together this is the first demonstration that instructions for specific types of spatial relations may yield distinct attentional patterns which are already reflected in activity early in the visual cortex.
Concurrent repetition enhancement and suppression responses in extrastriate visual cortex.	Visual cortical responses are usually attenuated by repetition, a phenomenon known as repetition suppression (RS). Here, we use multivoxel pattern analyses of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data to show that RS co-occurs with the converse phenomenon (repetition enhancement, RE) in a single cortical region. We presented human volunteers with short sequences of repeated faces and measured brain activity using fMRI. In an independently defined face-responsive extrastriate region, the response of each voxel to repetition (RS vs. RE) was consistent across scanner runs, and multivoxel patterns for both RS and RE voxels were stable. Moreover, RS and RE voxels responded to repetition with dissociable latencies and exhibited different patterns of connectivity with lower and higher visual regions. Computational simulations demonstrated that these effects must be due to differences in repetition sensitivity, and not feature selectivity. These findings establish that 2 classes of repetition responses coexist within 1 visual region and support models acknowledging this distinction, such as predictive coding models where perception requires the computation of both predictions (which are enhanced by repetition) and prediction errors (which are suppressed by repetition). 
Flicker adaptation of low-level cortical visual neurons contributes to temporal dilation.	Several seconds of adaptation to a flickered stimulus causes a subsequent brief static stimulus to appear longer in duration. Nonsensory factors, such as increased arousal and attention, have been thought to mediate this flicker-based temporal-dilation aftereffect. In this study, we provide evidence that adaptation of low-level cortical visual neurons contributes to this aftereffect. The aftereffect was significantly reduced by a 45 change in Gabor orientation between adaptation and test. Because orientation-tuning bandwidths are smaller in lower-level cortical visual areas and are approximately 45 in human V1, the result suggests that flicker adaptation of orientation-tuned V1 neurons contributes to the temporal-dilation aftereffect. The aftereffect was abolished when the adaptor and test stimuli were presented to different eyes. Because eye preferences are strong in V1 but diminish in higher-level visual areas, the eye specificity of the aftereffect corroborates the involvement of low-level cortical visual neurons. Our results suggest that flicker adaptation of low-level cortical visual neurons contributes to expanding visual duration. Furthermore, this temporal-dilation aftereffect dissociates from the previously reported temporal-compression aftereffect on the basis of the differences in their orientation and flicker-frequency selectivity, suggesting that the visual system possesses at least two distinct and potentially complementary mechanisms for adaptively coding perceived duration.
Feature-based attention affects direction-selective fMRI adaptation in hMT+.	Functional magnetic resonance adaptation has been successfully used to reveal direction-selective responses in the human motion complex (hMT+). Here, we aimed at further investigating direction-selective as well as position-selective responses of hMT+ by looking at how these responses are affected by feature-based attention. We varied motion direction and position of 2 consecutive random-dot stimuli. Participants had to either attend to the direction or the position of the stimuli in separate runs. We show that direction selectivity in hMT+ as measured by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) adaptation was strongly influenced by task set. Attending to the motion direction of the stimuli lead to stronger direction-selective fMRI adaptation than attending to their position. Position selectivity, on the other hand, was largely unaffected by attentional focus. Interestingly, the change in the direction-selective adaptation profile across tasks could not be explained by inheritance from earlier areas. The response pattern in the early retinotopic cortex was stable across conditions. In conclusion, our results provide further evidence for the flexible coding of direction information in hMT+ depending on task demands. 
Primary visual cortex scales individual's perceived brightness with power function: inner psychophysics with fMRI.	Perceived brightness is well described by Stevens' power function (S. S. Stevens, 1957, On the psychophysical law, Psychological Review, Vol. 64, pp. 153-181), with a power exponent of .33 (the cubic-root function of luminance). The power exponent actually varies across individuals, yet little is known about neural substrates underlying this individual difference. The present functional MRI study investigated how neural activation levels in the visual cortex serve to scale individual's subjective brightness. Participants rated brightness of a disk ranging from 1- to 100-cd/m luminance. Subjective brightness ratings showed an almost perfect log-linear dependence on luminance intensity, with the power exponent averaging .32. The fMRI results showed that activity in the bilateral primary visual cortex along with the calcarine sulcus (also known as Brodmann's area 17 and V1) increased log-linearly with physical luminance, showing average power exponents of .32 and .27 in the left and right hemispheres, respectively. There were substantial individual variations in the power function exponents for both subjective brightness ratings (.14 to .46) and primary visual cortex activation (.12 to .55). An important finding was that 2 power exponents were closely correlated (r = .62). Subjective brightness ratings and primary visual cortex activation were both better correlated with stimulus luminance than stimulus contrast (at the border of the stimulus). These results suggest that primary visual cortex activation can scale individual's subjective brightness in accordance with Stevens' power law.
Cochlear implants and positron emission tomography.	This review aimed to summarise present knowledge surrounding cochlear implants and neuroplasticity using positron emission tomography.
In vivo two-photon microscopy reveals immediate microglial reaction to implantation of microelectrode through extension of processes.	Penetrating cortical neural probe technologies allow investigators to record electrical signals in the brain. Implantation of probes results in acute tissue damage, and microglia density increases around implanted devices over weeks. However, the mechanisms underlying this encapsulation are not well understood in the acute temporal domain. The objective here was to evaluate dynamic microglial response to implanted probes using two-photon microscopy.
Real-time simulation of large-scale neural architectures for visual features computation based on GPU.	The intrinsic parallelism of visual neural architectures based on distributed hierarchical layers is well suited to be implemented on the multi-core architectures of modern graphics cards. The design strategies that allow us to optimally take advantage of such parallelism, in order to efficiently map on GPU the hierarchy of layers and the canonical neural computations, are proposed. Specically, the advantages of a cortical map-like representation of the data are exploited. Moreover, a GPU implementation of a novel neural architecture for the computation of binocular disparity from stereo image pairs, based on populations of binocular energy neurons, is presented. The implemented neural model achieves good performances in terms of reliability of the disparity estimates and a near real-time execution speed, thus demonstrating the effectiveness of the devised design strategies. The proposed approach is valid in general, since the neural building blocks we implemented are a common basis for the modeling of visual neural functionalities.
Orthogonal micro-organization of orientation and spatial frequency in primate primary visual cortex.	Orientation and spatial frequency tuning are highly salient properties of neurons in primary visual cortex (V1). The combined organization of these particular tuning properties in the cortical space will strongly shape the V1 population response to different visual inputs, yet it is poorly understood. In this study, we used two-photon imaging in macaque monkey V1 to demonstrate the three-dimensional cell-by-cell layout of both spatial frequency and orientation tuning. We first found that spatial frequency tuning was organized into highly structured maps that remained consistent across the depth of layer II/III, similarly to orientation tuning. Next, we found that orientation and spatial frequency maps were intimately related at the fine spatial scale observed with two-photon imaging. Not only did the map gradients tend notably toward orthogonality, but they also co-varied negatively from cell to cell at the spatial scale of cortical columns.
Correlated input reveals coexisting coding schemes in a sensory cortex.	As in other sensory modalities, one function of the somatosensory system is to detect coherence and contrast in the environment. To investigate the neural bases of these computations, we applied different spatiotemporal patterns of stimuli to rat whiskers while recording multiple neurons in the barrel cortex. Model-based analysis of the responses revealed different coding schemes according to the level of input correlation. With uncorrelated stimuli on 24 whiskers, we identified two distinct functional categories of neurons, analogous in the temporal domain to simple and complex cells of the primary visual cortex. With correlated stimuli, however, a complementary coding scheme emerged: two distinct cell populations, similar to reinforcing and antagonist neurons described in the higher visual area MT, responded specifically to correlations. We suggest that similar context-dependent coexisting coding strategies may be present in other sensory systems to adapt sensory integration to specific stimulus statistics.
Collinear stimuli induce local and cross-areal coherence in the visual cortex of behaving monkeys.	Collinear patterns of local visual stimuli are used to study contextual effects in the visual system. Previous studies have shown that proximal collinear flankers, unlike orthogonal, can enhance the detection of a low contrast central element. However, the direct neural interactions between cortical populations processing the individual flanker elements and the central element are largely unknown.
Spatial and temporal characteristics of V1 microstimulation during chronic implantation of a microelectrode array in a behaving macaque.	It has been hypothesized that a vision prosthesis capable of evoking useful visual percepts can be based upon electrically stimulating the primary visual cortex (V1) of a blind human subject via penetrating microelectrode arrays. As a continuation of earlier work, we examined several spatial and temporal characteristics of V1 microstimulation.
A spiking neural network based cortex-like mechanism and application to facial expression recognition.	In this paper, we present a quantitative, highly structured cortex-simulated model, which can be simply described as feedforward, hierarchical simulation of ventral stream of visual cortex using biologically plausible, computationally convenient spiking neural network system. The motivation comes directly from recent pioneering works on detailed functional decomposition analysis of the feedforward pathway of the ventral stream of visual cortex and developments on artificial spiking neural networks (SNNs). By combining the logical structure of the cortical hierarchy and computing power of the spiking neuron model, a practical framework has been presented. As a proof of principle, we demonstrate our system on several facial expression recognition tasks. The proposed cortical-like feedforward hierarchy framework has the merit of capability of dealing with complicated pattern recognition problems, suggesting that, by combining the cognitive models with modern neurocomputational approaches, the neurosystematic approach to the study of cortex-like mechanism has the potential to extend our knowledge of brain mechanisms underlying the cognitive analysis and to advance theoretical models of how we recognize face or, more specifically, perceive other people's facial expression in a rich, dynamic, and complex environment, providing a new starting point for improved models of visual cortex-like mechanism.
Dynamic coding of border-ownership in visual cortex.	Humans are capable of rapidly determining whether regions in a visual scene appear as figures in the foreground or as background, yet how figure-ground segregation occurs in the primate visual system is unknown. Figures in the environment are perceived to own their borders, and recent neurophysiology has demonstrated that certain cells in primate visual area V2 have border-ownership selectivity. We present a dynamic model based on physiological data that indicates areas V1, V2, and V4 act as an interareal network to determine border-ownership. Our model predicts that competition between curvature- sensitive cells in V4 that have on-surround receptive fields of different sizes can determine likely figure locations and rapidly propagate the information interareally to V2 border-ownership cells that receive contrast information from V1. In the model border-ownership is an emergent property produced by the dynamic interactions between V1, V2, and V4, one which could not be determined by any single cortical area alone.
How silent is silent reading? Intracerebral evidence for top-down activation of temporal voice areas during reading.	As you might experience it while reading this sentence, silent reading often involves an imagery speech component: we can hear our own "inner voice" pronouncing words mentally. Recent functional magnetic resonance imaging studies have associated that component with increased metabolic activity in the auditory cortex, including voice-selective areas. It remains to be determined, however, whether this activation arises automatically from early bottom-up visual inputs or whether it depends on late top-down control processes modulated by task demands. To answer this question, we collaborated with four epileptic human patients recorded with intracranial electrodes in the auditory cortex for therapeutic purposes, and measured high-frequency (50-150 Hz) "gamma" activity as a proxy of population level spiking activity. Temporal voice-selective areas (TVAs) were identified with an auditory localizer task and monitored as participants viewed words flashed on screen. We compared neural responses depending on whether words were attended or ignored and found a significant increase of neural activity in response to words, strongly enhanced by attention. In one of the patients, we could record that response at 800 ms in TVAs, but also at 700 ms in the primary auditory cortex and at 300 ms in the ventral occipital temporal cortex. Furthermore, single-trial analysis revealed a considerable jitter between activation peaks in visual and auditory cortices. Altogether, our results demonstrate that the multimodal mental experience of reading is in fact a heterogeneous complex of asynchronous neural responses, and that auditory and visual modalities often process distinct temporal frames of our environment at the same time.
Improving visual perception through neurofeedback.	Perception depends on the interplay of ongoing spontaneous activity and stimulus-evoked activity in sensory cortices. This raises the possibility that training ongoing spontaneous activity alone might be sufficient for enhancing perceptual sensitivity. To test this, we trained human participants to control ongoing spontaneous activity in circumscribed regions of retinotopic visual cortex using real-time functional MRI-based neurofeedback. After training, we tested participants using a new and previously untrained visual detection task that was presented at the visual field location corresponding to the trained region of visual cortex. Perceptual sensitivity was significantly enhanced only when participants who had previously learned control over ongoing activity were now exercising control and only for that region of visual cortex. Our new approach allows us to non-invasively and non-pharmacologically manipulate regionally specific brain activity and thus provide "brain training" to deliver particular perceptual enhancements.
High-density diffuse optical tomography of term infant visual cortex in the nursery.	Advancements in antenatal and neonatal medicine over the last few decades have led to significant improvement in the survival rates of sick newborn infants. However, this improvement in survival has not been matched by a reduction in neurodevelopmental morbidities with increasing recognition of the diverse cognitive and behavioral challenges that preterm infants face in childhood. Conventional neuroimaging modalities, such as cranial ultrasound and magnetic resonance imaging, provide an important definition of neuroanatomy with recognition of brain injury. However, they fail to define the functional integrity of the immature brain, particularly during this critical developmental period. Diffuse optical tomography methods have established success in imaging adult brain function; however, few studies exist to demonstrate their feasibility in the neonatal population. We demonstrate the feasibility of using recently developed high-density diffuse optical tomography (HD-DOT) to map functional activation of the visual cortex in healthy term-born infants. The functional images show high contrast-to-noise ratio obtained in seven neonates. These results illustrate the potential for HD-DOT and provide a foundation for investigations of brain function in more vulnerable newborns, such as preterm infants.
Multimodal recording of brain activity in term newborns during photic stimulation by near-infrared spectroscopy and electroencephalography.	In this study 14 healthy term newborns (postnatal mean age 2.1 days) underwent photic stimulation during sleep on two different days. Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) and electroencephalography (EEG) was acquired simultaneously. The aims of the study were: to determine (i) the sensitivity and (ii) the repeatability of NIRS to detect the hemodynamic response, (iii) the sensitivity and (iv) the repeatability of EEG to detect a visual evoked potential (VEP), (v) to analyze optical data for the optical neuronal signal, and (vi) to test whether inadequate stimulation could be reason for absent hemodynamic responses. The results of the study were as follows. (i) Sensitivity of NIRS was 61.5% to detect hemodynamic responses; (ii) their reproducibility was 41.7%. A VEP was detected (iii) in 96.3% of all subjects with (iv) a reproducibility of 92.3%. (v) In two measurements data met the criteria for an optical neuronal signal. The noise level was 9.610-5% change in optical density. (vi) Insufficient stimulation was excluded as reason for absent hemodynamic responses. We conclude that NIRS is an promising tool to study cognitive activation and development of the brain. For clinical application, however, the sensitivity and reproducibility on an individual level needs to be improved.
Neural mechanisms of feature conjunction learning: enduring changes in occipital cortex after a week of training.	Most visual activities, whether reading, driving, or playing video games, require rapid detection and identification of learned patterns defined by arbitrary conjunctions of visual features. Initially, such detection is slow and inefficient, but it can become fast and efficient with training. To determine how the brain learns to process conjunctions of visual features efficiently, we trained participants over eight consecutive days to search for a target defined by an arbitrary conjunction of color and location among distractors with a different conjunction of the same features. During each training session, we measured brain activity with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). The speed of visual search for feature conjunctions improved dramatically within just a few days. These behavioral improvements were correlated with increased neural responses to the stimuli in visual cortex. This suggests that changes in neural processing in visual cortex contribute to the speeding up of visual feature conjunction search. We find evidence that this effect is driven by an increase in the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the BOLD signal for search targets over distractors. In a control condition where target and distractor identities were exchanged after training, learned search efficiency was abolished, suggesting that the primary improvement was perceptual learning for the search stimuli, not task-learning. Moreover, when participants were retested on the original task after nine months without further training, the acquired changes in behavior and brain activity were still present, showing that this can be an enduring form of learning and neural reorganization.
Signs of increased cortical hyperexcitability selectively associated with spontaneous anomalous bodily experiences in a nonclinical population.	The current study examined the presence of cortical hyperexcitability, in nonclinical hallucinators, reporting different forms of anomalous bodily experiences (ABEs). Groups reporting visual out-of-body experiences and nonvisual sensed-presence experiences were examined. It was hypothesised that only those hallucinators whose experiences contained visual elements would show increased signs of visual cortical hyperexcitability.
Slow biasing of processing resources in early visual cortex is preceded by emotional cue extraction in emotion-attention competition.	In our previous studies on competition for attentional processing resources in early visual cortex between a foreground task and distracting emotional background images we found that emotional background images withdraw attentional resources from the foreground task after about 400 ms. Costs in behavioral data and a significant reduction of the steady state visual evoked potential (SSVEP) amplitude that was elicited by the foreground task lasted for several hundred milliseconds. We speculated that the differential effect in SSVEP amplitudes is preceded by the extraction of the emotional cue. Event related potential (ERP) studies to emotional and neutral complex images identified an early posterior negativity (EPN) as a robust neural signature of emotional cue extraction. The late positive potential (LPP) was related to in-depth processing of the emotional image. We extracted ERPs that were evoked by the onset of background images concurrently with the SSVEP that was elicited by the foreground task. Emotional compared to neutral background pictures evoked a more negative EPN at about 190 ms and a more positive LPP at about 700 ms after image onset. SSVEP amplitudes became significantly smaller with emotional background images after about 400 ms lasting for several hundred ms. Interestingly, we found no significant correlations between the three components, indicating that they act independently. Source localizations resulted in nonoverlapping cortical generators. Results suggest a cascade of perceptual processes: Extraction of the emotional cue preceded biasing of attentional resources away from the foreground task towards the emotional image for an evaluation of the picture content.
Activity patterns in the category-selective occipitotemporal cortex predict upcoming motor actions.	Converging lines of evidence point to the occipitotemporal cortex (OTC) as a critical structure in visual perception. For instance, human functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has revealed a modular organisation of object-selective, face-selective, body-selective and scene-selective visual areas in the OTC, and disruptions to the processing within these regions, either in neuropsychological patients or through transcranial magnetic stimulation, can produce category-specific deficits in visual recognition. Here we show, using fMRI and pattern classification methods, that the activity in the OTC also represents how stimuli will be interacted with by the body--a level of processing more traditionally associated with the preparatory activity in sensorimotor circuits of the brain. Combining functional mapping of different OTC areas with a real object-directed delayed movement task, we found that the pre-movement spatial activity patterns across the OTC could be used to predict both the action of an upcoming hand movement (grasping vs. reaching) and the effector (left hand vs. right hand) to be used. Interestingly, we were able to extract this wide range of predictive movement information even though nearly all OTC areas showed either baseline-level or below baseline-level activity prior to action onset. Our characterisation of different OTC areas according to the features of upcoming movements that they could predict also revealed a general gradient of effector-to-action-dependent movement representations along the posterior-anterior OTC axis. These findings suggest that the ventral visual pathway, which is well known to be involved in object recognition and perceptual processing, plays a larger than previously expected role in preparing object-directed hand actions.
Visual thalamocortical circuits in parvalbumin-deficient mice.	The dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN) is considered as the visual gateway to the visual cortex (VC) and sends collaterals to the thalamic reticular nucleus (RTN) that in turn receives collaterals of the corticofugal feedback projections. At all levels of this thalamocortical circuit there are GABAergic neurons expressing the calcium-buffer parvalbumin (PV). The present study reports for the first time the analysis of in vivo extracellular electrophysiological recordings performed simultaneously in dLGN, RTN and VC of anesthetized wild-type (WT) and parvalbumin-deficient (PVKO) mice. The firing rates of VC and RTN cells were increased in PVKO during spontaneous activity as well as in the presence of a photic stimulation (strobe flash at 2.5Hz). Interestingly, dLGN cells in PVKO did not show significant changes in the rate of firing in comparison to WT. dLGN responses to the light flashes were characterized by ripples of inhibition and phasic excitation/rebound. We have analyzed the pattern of functional interactions between pairs of neighboring cells in VC, dLGN and RTN and across these areas in simultaneously recorded thalamocortical triplets, with one neuron from each area. We found that in PVKO the strength of the interactions tended to decrease locally, between neighboring cells, but tended to increase across the areas. The combination of these analyses provides new evidence on the important role played by PV-expression in regulating information processing in the central visual pathway suggesting that the ability to process information along parallel channels is decreased in the thalamocortical pathway of PV-deficient mice. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Neural Coding 2012. 
Implicit representations of luminance and the temporal structure of moving stimuli in multiple regions of human visual cortex revealed by multivariate pattern classification analysis.	The generation of a behaviorally relevant cue to the speed of objects around us is critical to our ability to navigate safely within our environment. However, our perception of speed is often distorted by prevailing conditions. For instance, as luminance is reduced, our perception of the speed of fast-moving patterns can be increased by as much as 30%. To investigate how the cortical representation of speed may vary under such conditions, we have measured the functional MRI blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) response of visual cortex to drifting sine gratings at two very different luminances. The average BOLD response in all areas was band-pass with respect to speed (or equivalently, temporal frequency) and thus contained no unambiguous speed information. However, a multivariate classifier was able to predict grating speed successfully in all cortical areas measured. Similarly, we find that a multivariate classifier can predict stimulus luminance. No differences in either the mean BOLD response or the multivariate classifier response with respect to speed were found as luminance changed. However, examination of the spatial distribution of speed preferences in the primary visual cortex revealed that perifoveal locations preferred slower speeds than peripheral locations at low but not high luminance. We conclude that although an explicit representation of perceived speed has yet to be demonstrated in the human brain, multiple visual regions encode both the temporal structure of moving stimuli and luminance implicitly. 
The fusiform face area responds equivalently to faces and abstract shapes in the left and central visual fields.	The fusiform face area (FFA) is widely believed to be specialized for processing faces. Although the FFA is most responsive to faces, this region also consistently responds to non-face items. This suggests that the FFA may be tuned to a feature that is shared by faces and non-face items. Based on the known left visual field face-processing bias along with evidence that the FFA responds to the visual feature of shape, we hypothesized that the FFA may be particularly tuned to shapes presented in the left visual field. We tested this hypothesis using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In a face localizer run, participants viewed blocks of faces or objects. In a separate run, blocks of intact or scrambled abstract shapes were presented in the left, the central, or the right visual field. Within each of the eleven face-processing regions-of-interest (identified by contrasting faces and objects), the magnitude of activity associated with faces was compared to the magnitude of activity associated with intact shapes. Consistent with previous results, collapsing over shape visual field location, the magnitude of activity associated with faces was greater than the magnitude of activity associated with shapes in the FFA. However, separating by shape visual field location revealed an equivalent magnitude of activity associated with faces and shapes in the FFA when shapes were presented in the left and central visual fields. These findings indicate that the FFA, rather than being specialized for holistic face processing, mediates shape processing in the left and central visual fields. 
Visual cortical contributions to associative cerebellar learning.	Eye-blink conditioning (EBC) is a form of associative learning that depends on the cerebellum. Previous reports suggested that sensory cortex is necessary for trace EBC but not for delay EBC. The trace and delay EBC procedures used in these studies differed by the presence or absence of a temporal gap between the end of the conditioned stimulus and the onset of the unconditioned stimulus (trace interval) and in the interval between the onset of the CS and the US (inter-stimulus interval, ISI). The current study examined the role of the visual cortex in delay, long-delay, and trace EBC, matching CS duration and inter-stimulus interval between groups. In Experiment 1, extensive removal of the visual cortex impaired acquisition of long-delay and trace EBC but had no effect on delay EBC. In Experiment 2, bilateral inactivation of the visual cortex impaired acquisition and retention of long-delay and trace EBC, but had no effect on delay EBC. In Experiment 3, unilateral inactivation of the visual cortex impaired long-delay EBC but had no effect on trace EBC. The results indicate that the visual cortex facilitates EBC with relatively long ISIs, regardless of whether there is a trace interval or not. Moreover, the ipsilateral projections from the visual cortex to the pontine nuclei are sufficient for modulating long-delay EBC, whereas trace EBC involves bilateral visual cortical interactions with forebrain systems including the hippocampus and prefrontal cortex. 
Characterising reward outcome signals in sensory cortex.	Reward outcome signalling in the sensory cortex is held as important for linking stimuli to their consequences and for modulating perceptual learning in response to incentives. Evidence for reward outcome signalling has been found in sensory regions including the visual, auditory and somatosensory cortices across a range of different paradigms, but it is unknown whether the population of neurons signalling rewarding outcomes are the same as those processing predictive stimuli. We addressed this question using a multivariate analysis of high-resolution functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), in a task where subjects were engaged in instrumental learning with visual predictive cues and auditory signalled reward feedback. We found evidence that outcome signals in sensory regions localise to the same areas involved in stimulus processing. These outcome signals are non-specific and we show that the neuronal populations involved in stimulus representation are not their exclusive target, in keeping with theoretical models of value learning. Thus, our results reveal one likely mechanism through which rewarding outcomes are linked to predictive sensory stimuli, a link that may be key for both reward and perceptual learning. 
Shared representations for working memory and mental imagery in early visual cortex.	Early visual areas contain specific information about visual items maintained in working memory, suggesting a role for early visual cortex in more complex cognitive functions [1-4]. It is an open question, however, whether these areas also underlie the ability to internally generate images de novo (i.e., mental imagery). Research on mental imagery has to this point focused mostly on whether mental images activate early sensory areas, with mixed results [5-7]. Recent studies suggest that multivariate pattern analysis of neural activity patterns in visual regions can reveal content-specific representations during cognitive processes, even though overall activation levels are low [1-4]. Here, we used this approach [8, 9] to study item-specific activity patterns in early visual areas (V1-V3) when these items are internally generated. We could reliably decode stimulus identity from neural activity patterns in early visual cortex during both working memory and mental imagery. Crucially, these activity patterns resembled those evoked by bottom-up visual stimulation, suggesting that mental images are indeed "perception-like" in nature. These findings suggest that the visual cortex serves as a dynamic "blackboard" [10, 11] that is used during both bottom-up stimulus processing and top-down internal generation of mental content. 
Spatial encoding and underlying circuitry in scene-selective cortex.	Three cortical areas (Retro-Splenial Cortex (RSC), Transverse Occipital Sulcus (TOS) and Parahippocampal Place Area (PPA)) respond selectively to scenes. However, their wider role in spatial encoding and their functional connectivity remain unclear. Using fMRI, first we tested the responses of these areas during spatial comparison tasks using dot targets on white noise. Activity increased during task performance in both RSC and TOS, but not in PPA. However, the amplitude of task-driven activity and behavioral measures of task demand were correlated only in RSC. A control experiment showed that none of these areas were activated during a comparable shape comparison task. Secondly, we analyzed functional connectivity of these areas during the resting state. Results revealed a significant connection between RSC and frontal association areas (known to be involved in perceptual decision-making). In contrast, TOS showed functional connections dorsally with the Inferior Parietal Sulcus, and ventrally with the Lateral Occipital Complex--but not with RSC and/or frontal association areas. Moreover, RSC and TOS showed differentiable functional connections with the anterior-medial and posterior-lateral parts of PPA, respectively. These results suggest two parallel pathways for spatial encoding, including RSC and TOS respectively. Only the RSC network was involved in active spatial comparisons.
Luminance, but not chromatic visual pathways, mediate amplification of conditioned danger signals in human visual cortex.	Complex organisms rely on experience to optimize the function of perceptual and motor systems in situations relevant to survival. It is well established that visual cues reliably paired with danger are processed more efficiently than neutral cues, and that such facilitated sensory processing extends to low levels of the visual system. The neurophysiological mechanisms mediating biased sensory processing, however, are not well understood. Here we used grating stimuli specifically designed to engage luminance or chromatic pathways of the human visual system in a differential classical conditioning paradigm. Behavioral ratings and visual electroencephalographic steady-state potentials were recorded in healthy human participants. Our findings indicate that the visuocortical response to high-spatial-frequency isoluminant (red-green) grating stimuli was not modulated by fear conditioning, but low-contrast, low-spatial-frequency reversal of grayscale gratings resulted in pronounced conditioning effects. We conclude that sensory input conducted via the chromatic pathways into retinotopic visual cortex has limited access to the bi-directional connectivity with brain networks mediating the acquisition and expression of fear, such as the amygdaloid complex. Conversely, luminance information is necessary to establish amplification of learned danger signals in hierarchically early regions of the visual system. 
Redundancy gains in retinotopic cortex.	It is widely claimed that interactions among simultaneously presented visual stimuli are suppressive and that these interactions primarily occur when stimuli fall within the same receptive field (Desimone and Duncan 1995). Here, we show evidence for a novel form of interaction between simultaneously presented but distant stimuli that does not fit either pattern. To examine interactions between simultaneously presented stimuli, we measure the response to a single stimulus as a function of whether or not other stimuli are also presented simultaneously, and we further ask how the response to a given stimulus is affected by whether the simultaneously present stimuli are identical or different from each other. Our method reveals a new phenomenon of "redundancy gain:" the visual response to a stimulus is higher when accompanied by identical stimuli than when that stimulus is presented alone, even though the stimuli are displayed in separate visual quadrants. This pattern is observed throughout the visual hierarchy, including V1 and V2, and we show that it is distinct from the well-known simultaneous suppression effect (Kastner et al. 1998). We propose that the redundancy gain in early retinotopic cortex results from feedback from higher visual areas and may underlie perceptual averaging and other ensemble coding phenomena observed behaviorally. 
Modeling a space-variant cortical representation for apparent motion.	Receptive field sizes of neurons in early primate visual areas increase with eccentricity, as does temporal processing speed. The fovea is evidently specialized for slow, fine movements while the periphery is suited for fast, coarse movements. In either the fovea or periphery discrete flashes can produce motion percepts. Grossberg and Rudd (1989) used traveling Gaussian activity profiles to model long-range apparent motion percepts. We propose a neural model constrained by physiological data to explain how signals from retinal ganglion cells to V1 affect the perception of motion as a function of eccentricity. Our model incorporates cortical magnification, receptive field overlap and scatter, and spatial and temporal response characteristics of retinal ganglion cells for cortical processing of motion. Consistent with the finding of Baker and Braddick (1985), in our model the maximum flash distance that is perceived as an apparent motion (Dmax) increases linearly as a function of eccentricity. Baker and Braddick (1985) made qualitative predictions about the functional significance of both stimulus and visual system parameters that constrain motion perception, such as an increase in the range of detectable motions as a function of eccentricity and the likely role of higher visual processes in determining Dmax. We generate corresponding quantitative predictions for those functional dependencies for individual aspects of motion processing. Simulation results indicate that the early visual pathway can explain the qualitative linear increase of Dmax data without reliance on extrastriate areas, but that those higher visual areas may serve as a modulatory influence on the exact Dmax increase. 
Natural image sequences constrain dynamic receptive fields and imply a sparse code.	In their natural environment, animals experience a complex and dynamic visual scenery. Under such natural stimulus conditions, neurons in the visual cortex employ a spatially and temporally sparse code. For the input scenario of natural still images, previous work demonstrated that unsupervised feature learning combined with the constraint of sparse coding can predict physiologically measured receptive fields of simple cells in the primary visual cortex. This convincingly indicated that the mammalian visual system is adapted to the natural spatial input statistics. Here, we extend this approach to the time domain in order to predict dynamic receptive fields that can account for both spatial and temporal sparse activation in biological neurons. We rely on temporal restricted Boltzmann machines and suggest a novel temporal autoencoding training procedure. When tested on a dynamic multi-variate benchmark dataset this method outperformed existing models of this class. Learning features on a large dataset of natural movies allowed us to model spatio-temporal receptive fields for single neurons. They resemble temporally smooth transformations of previously obtained static receptive fields and are thus consistent with existing theories. A neuronal spike response model demonstrates how the dynamic receptive field facilitates temporal and population sparseness. We discuss the potential mechanisms and benefits of a spatially and temporally sparse representation of natural visual input. 
Processing of the S-cone signals in the early visual cortex of primates.	The short-wavelength-sensitive (S) cones play an important role in color vision of primates, and may also contribute to the coding of other visual features, such as luminance and motion. The color signals carried by the S cones and other cone types are largely separated in the subcortical visual pathway. Studies on nonhuman primates or humans have suggested that these signals are combined in the striate cortex (V1) following a substantial amplification of the S-cone signals in the same area. In addition to reviewing these studies, this review describes the circuitry in V1 that may underlie the processing of the S-cone signals and the dynamics of this processing. It also relates the interaction between various cone signals in V1 to the results of some psychophysical and physiological studies on color perception, which leads to a discussion of a previous model, in which color perception is produced by a multistage processing of the cone signals. Finally, I discuss the processing of the S-cone signals in the extrastriate area V2. 
Color signals through dorsal and ventral visual pathways.	Explanations for color phenomena are often sought in the retina, lateral geniculate nucleus, and V1, yet it is becoming increasingly clear that a complete account will take us further along the visual-processing pathway. Working out which areas are involved is not trivial. Responses to S-cone activation are often assumed to indicate that an area or neuron is involved in color perception. However, work tracing S-cone signals into extrastriate cortex has challenged this assumption: S-cone responses have been found in brain regions, such as the middle temporal (MT) motion area, not thought to play a major role in color perception. Here, we review the processing of S-cone signals across cortex and present original data on S-cone responses measured with fMRI in alert macaque, focusing on one area in which S-cone signals seem likely to contribute to color (V4/posterior inferior temporal cortex) and on one area in which S signals are unlikely to play a role in color (MT). We advance a hypothesis that the S-cone signals in color-computing areas are required to achieve a balanced neural representation of perceptual color space, whereas those in noncolor-areas provide a cue to illumination (not luminance) and confer sensitivity to the chromatic contrast generated by natural daylight (shadows, illuminated by ambient sky, surrounded by direct sunlight). This sensitivity would facilitate the extraction of shape-from-shadow signals to benefit global scene analysis and motion perception. 
Perceptual effects of stimulating V5/hMT+ during binocular rivalry are state specific.	Binocular rivalry occurs when two distinct visual stimuli are presented separately to each eye, causing perceptual ambiguity. The conscious state of the observer then alternates between the perceptual dominance of one of the stimuli while the other is suppressed, and vice versa. These vivid changes in perception during constant visual stimulation allow the study of brain processes involved in conscious visual experience. There is abundant electrophysiological as well as fMRI evidence that neural activity in stimulus-selective areas of the temporal lobe correlates with perceptual changes during rivalry [13]. Yet, almost nothing is known about the causal contribution of these areas to dominance and suppression of their preferred stimulus. We induced binocular rivalry in human observers using moving dots presented to one eye and a static face to the other eye, and applied transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the motion area V5/hMT+. We show that disrupting activity in V5/hMT+ during rivalry extends periods of motion suppression, with no effect on periods of motion dominance, revealing a state-specific contribution of V5/hMT+ to the competition for awareness in rivalry.
Motion-direction specificity for adaptation-induced duration compression depends on temporal frequency.	Adapting to a 20 Hz oscillating grating reduces the apparent duration of a 10 Hz drifting grating displayed subsequently in the same location as the adaptor. The effect is orientation-independent as it remains once the adaptor is rotated 90 relative to the tests (Johnston, Arnold, & Nishida, 2006). However, it was shown that, for random dots moving at 3/s, duration compression follows adaptation only when the adaptor and test drift in the same direction, and it disappears when they drift in opposite directions (Curran & Benton, 2012). Here, we explored the relationship between the relative motion direction of adaptor and test and the strength of duration compression for a wider range of speeds and for narrow-band stimuli (temporal frequencies between 3 and 18 Hz). We first measured perceived temporal frequency for the same stimuli after adaptation, and we used these estimates to match the apparent rate of the adapted and unadapted tests in the duration task. We found that, whereas at 3 Hz the effect of adaptation in the opposite direction on duration is marginal, at higher frequencies there is substantial duration compression in the opposite direction. These results indicate that there may be two contributions to apparent duration compression: a cortical contribution sensitive to orientation and motion direction at a wide range of temporal frequencies and a direction-independent subcortical contribution, which is revealed at higher frequencies. However, while direction specificity implies cortical involvement, subcortical orientation dependency and the influence of feedback to subcortical areas should not be ignored. 
Distinct balance of excitation and inhibition in an interareal feedforward and feedback circuit of mouse visual cortex.	Mouse visual cortex is subdivided into multiple distinct, hierarchically organized areas that are interconnected through feedforward (FF) and feedback (FB) pathways. The principal synaptic targets of FF and FB axons that reciprocally interconnect primary visual cortex (V1) with the higher lateromedial extrastriate area (LM) are pyramidal cells (Pyr) and parvalbumin (PV)-expressing GABAergic interneurons. Recordings in slices of mouse visual cortex have shown that layer 2/3 Pyr cells receive excitatory monosynaptic FF and FB inputs, which are opposed by disynaptic inhibition. Most notably, inhibition is stronger in the FF than FB pathway, suggesting pathway-specific organization of feedforward inhibition (FFI). To explore the hypothesis that this difference is due to diverse pathway-specific strengths of the inputs to PV neurons we have performed subcellular Channelrhodopsin-2-assisted circuit mapping in slices of mouse visual cortex. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from retrobead-labeled FF(V1LM)- and FB(LMV1)-projecting Pyr cells, as well as from tdTomato-expressing PV neurons. The results show that the FF(V1LM) pathway provides on average 3.7-fold stronger depolarizing input to layer 2/3 inhibitory PV neurons than to neighboring excitatory Pyr cells. In the FB(LMV1) pathway, depolarizing inputs to layer 2/3 PV neurons and Pyr cells were balanced. Balanced inputs were also found in the FF(V1LM) pathway to layer 5 PV neurons and Pyr cells, whereas FB(LMV1) inputs to layer 5 were biased toward Pyr cells. The findings indicate that FFI in FF(V1LM) and FB(LMV1) circuits are organized in a pathway- and lamina-specific fashion.
Top-down control of visual responses to fear by the amygdala.	The visual cortex is sensitive to emotional stimuli. This sensitivity is typically assumed to arise when amygdala modulates visual cortex via backwards connections. Using human fMRI, we compared dynamic causal connectivity models of sensitivity with fearful faces. This model comparison tested whether amygdala modulates distinct cortical areas, depending on dynamic or static face presentation. The ventral temporal fusiform face area showed sensitivity to fearful expressions in static faces. However, for dynamic faces, we found fear sensitivity in dorsal motion-sensitive areas within hMT+/V5 and superior temporal sulcus. The model with the greatest evidence included connections modulated by dynamic and static fear from amygdala to dorsal and ventral temporal areas, respectively. According to this functional architecture, amygdala could enhance encoding of fearful expression movements from video and the form of fearful expressions from static images. The amygdala may therefore optimize visual encoding of socially charged and salient information. 
Cerebral (cortical) biostimulation.	Presently, stimulation of the surface of the brain in order to provide artificial vision or hearing for the blind and deaf is in its infant stages. Those observations which are accumulating now have as their aim the investigation of the feasibility of such prosthetic devices. Whether such devices will ever be of real therapeutic benefit remains uncertain and can only be determined by this type of very labor-intensive, expensive and interdisciplinary investigation. When one considers, on the other hand, that there are between one-quarter and one-half million individuals in the United States and Canada who are profoundly deaf and a similar number who are legally blind, the value of the pursuit of such investigation requires little defense.
Activity in early visual areas predicts interindividual differences in binocular rivalry dynamics.	When dissimilar images are presented to the two eyes, binocular rivalry (BR) occurs, and perception alternates spontaneously between the images. Although neural correlates of the oscillating perception during BR have been found in multiple sites along the visual pathway, the source of BR dynamics is unclear. Psychophysical and modeling studies suggest that both low- and high-level cortical processes underlie BR dynamics. Previous neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the involvement of high-level regions by showing that frontal and parietal cortices responded time locked to spontaneous perceptual alternation in BR. However, a potential contribution of early visual areas to BR dynamics has been overlooked, because these areas also responded to the physical stimulus alternation mimicking BR. In the present study, instead of focusing on activity during perceptual switches, we highlighted brain activity during suppression periods to investigate a potential link between activity in human early visual areas and BR dynamics. We used a strong interocular suppression paradigm called continuous flash suppression to suppress and fluctuate the visibility of a probe stimulus and measured retinotopic responses to the onset of the invisible probe using functional MRI. There were 130-fold differences in the median suppression durations across 12 subjects. The individual differences in suppression durations could be predicted by the amplitudes of the retinotopic activity in extrastriate visual areas (V3 and V4v) evoked by the invisible probe. Weaker responses were associated with longer suppression durations. These results demonstrate that retinotopic representations in early visual areas play a role in the dynamics of perceptual alternations during BR.
Spike synchronization in cat primary visual cortex depends on similarity of surround-suppression magnitude.	In the primary visual cortex (V1), the spike synchronization seen in neuron pairs with non-overlapping receptive fields can be explained by similarities in their preferred orientation (PO). However, this is not true for pairs with overlapping receptive fields, as they can still exhibit spike synchronization even if their POs are only weakly correlated. Here, we investigated the relationship between spike synchronization and suppressive modulation derived from classical receptive-field surround (surround suppression). We found that layer 4 and layer 2/3 pairs exhibited mainly asymmetric spike synchronization that had non-zero time-lags and was dependent on both the similarity of the PO and the strength of surround suppression. In contrast, layer 2/3 and layer 2/3 pairs showed mainly symmetric spike synchronization that had zero time-lag and was dependent on the similarity of the strength of surround suppression but not on the similarity in POs. From these results, we propose that in cat V1 there exists a functional network that mainly depends on the similarity in surround suppression, and that in layer 2/3 neurons the network maintains surround suppression that is primarily inherited from layer 4 neurons. 
Long-term potentiation and NMDA receptors in rat visual cortex.	In the hippocampus, which is phylogenetically older than the cerebral neocortex, high frequency stimulation of afferent pathways leads to long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission. This use-dependent malleability is of considerable interest because it may serve as a substrate for memory processes. However, in the neocortex, whose involvement in learning is undisputed, attempts to demonstrate LTP have remained inconclusive. Here we use intracellular recording techniques to show that LTP can be induced by high frequency stimulation of the optic radiation in slices of the visual cortex of adult rats. We identify as a necessary prerequisite for the induction of LTP the activation of the membrane channel that is associated with the NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptor. Selective blockade of this receptor system with DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate consistently prevents LTP as in most hippocampal pathways. In most cortical neurons the activation of the NMDA mechanism and hence the induction of LTP in these experiments requires a concomitant reduction of GABAergic inhibition by low doses of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline. This indicates that in the neocortex the activation threshold of the NMDA-mechanism and consequently the susceptibility to LTP, are strongly influenced by inhibitory processes.
Repetitive paired-pulse transcranial magnetic stimulation over the visual cortex selectively inhibits focal flash VEPs.	The human visual system processes different aspects of visual information such as luminance and contrast via multiple channels. We previously used repetitive paired-pulse stimulation (rPPS) over the visual cortex to elicit a disinhibitory effect on the visual recovery function of paired pattern-reversal (PR) visual evoked potentials (VEPs).
Sleep deprivation reduces the rate of rapid picture processing.	Object recognition becomes impaired at faster presentation rates and here we show the neuroanatomical foci of where this might be exacerbated by sleep deprivation (SD). Twenty healthy human participants were asked to detect a target house in serially presented house pictures that appeared at 1-15images/s. Temporal response profiles relating fMRI signal magnitude to presentation frequency were derived from task-responsive regions. Following SD, the inverted U-shaped response profile within parahippocampal place area was lower and peaked at a slower presentation rate than when participants slept normally. Contrastingly, SD did not shift the relatively monotonic early visual cortex responses. The intraparietal sulci but not the frontal eye fields or medial frontal region, showed similar shifts in temporal response profiles following SD, suggesting differential contribution of areas mediating attention control towards limiting rapid object processing. As nodes of the default mode network (DMN) continued to show monotonically increasing deactivation at higher presentation frequencies even following SD, the observed state modulations of temporal responses likely represent temporal limitations in object processing as opposed to task disengagement. 
Decoding complex flow-field patterns in visual working memory.	There has been a long history of research on visual working memory. Whereas early studies have focused on the role of lateral prefrontal cortex in the storage of sensory information, this has been challenged by research in humans that has directly assessed the encoding of perceptual contents, pointing towards a role of visual and parietal regions during storage. In a previous study we used pattern classification to investigate the storage of complex visual color patterns across delay periods. This revealed coding of such contents in early visual and parietal brain regions. Here we aim to investigate whether the involvement of visual and parietal cortex is also observable for other types of complex, visuo-spatial pattern stimuli. Specifically, we used a combination of fMRI and multivariate classification to investigate the retention of complex flow-field stimuli defined by the spatial patterning of motion trajectories of random dots. Subjects were trained to memorize the precise spatial layout of these stimuli and to retain this information during an extended delay. We used a multivariate decoding approach to identify brain regions where spatial patterns of activity encoded the memorized stimuli. Content-specific memory signals were observable in motion sensitive visual area MT+ and in posterior parietal cortex that might encode spatial information in a modality independent manner. Interestingly, we also found information about the memorized visual stimulus in somatosensory cortex, suggesting a potential crossmodal contribution to memory. Our findings thus indicate that working memory storage of visual percepts might be distributed across unimodal, multimodal and even crossmodal brain regions. 
Varieties of perceptual instability and their neural correlates.	We report experiments designed to learn whether different kinds of perceptually unstable visual images engage different neural mechanisms. 21 subjects viewed two types of bi-stable images while we scanned the activity in their brains with functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI); in one (intra-categorical type) the two percepts remained within the same category (e.g. face-face) while in the other (cross-categorical type) they crossed categorical boundaries (e.g. face-body). The results showed that cross- and intra-categorical reversals share a common reversal-related neural circuitry, which includes fronto-parietal cortex and primary visual cortex (area V1). Cross-categorical reversals alone engaged additional areas, notably anterior cingulate cortex and superior temporal gyrus, which have been posited to be involved in conflict resolution. 
Difficulties of motion-onset VEP interpretation in school-age children.	In adults, motion-onset visual evoked potentials (M-VEPs) with a dominant N2 peak represent a useful diagnostic tool. However, it is difficult to use this type of VEP in children because of the long maturation (up to 18 years) of M-VEPs, which is characterised by a gradual decrease in N2 peak latency and shape development. Moreover, in some children, M-VEPs are difficult to identify with standard stimuli.
The extrageniculate visual pathway generates distinct response properties in the higher visual areas of mice.	Visual information conveyed through the extrageniculate visual pathway, which runs from the retina via the superior colliculus (SC) and the lateral posterior nucleus (LPN) of the thalamus to the higher visual cortex, plays a critical role in the visual capabilities of many mammalian species. However, its functional role in the higher visual cortex remains unclear. Here, we observed visual cortical area activity in anesthetized mice to evaluate the role of the extrageniculate pathway on their specialized visual properties.
Altered activation in visual cortex: unusual functional magnetic resonance imaging finding in early Parkinson's disease.	Movement dysfunction in Parkinson's disease (PD) is well documented but its cause remains unclear. This study examined whether motor symptoms are caused by sensory impairment, executive dysfunction or other factors.
Neural processes in symmetry perception: a parallel spatio-temporal model.	Symmetry is usually computationally expensive to detect reliably, while it is relatively easy to perceive. In spite of many attempts to understand the neurofunctional properties of symmetry processing, no symmetry-specific activation was found in earlier cortical areas. Psychophysical evidence relating to the processing mechanisms suggests that the basic processes of symmetry perception would not perform a serial, point-by-point comparison of structural features but rather operate in parallel. Here, modeling of neural processes in psychophysical detection of bilateral texture symmetry is considered. A simple fine-grained algorithm that is capable of performing symmetry estimation without explicit comparison of remote elements is introduced. A computational model of symmetry perception is then described to characterize the underlying mechanisms as one-dimensional spatio-temporal neural processes, each of which is mediated by intracellular horizontal connections in primary visual cortex and adopts the proposed algorithm for the neural computation. Simulated experiments have been performed to show the efficiency and the dynamics of the model. Model and human performances are comparable for symmetry perception of intensity images. Interestingly, the responses of V1 neurons to propagation activities reflecting higher-order perceptual computations have been reported in neurophysiologic experiments. 
Visual cortex extrastriate body-selective area activation in congenitally blind people "seeing" by using sounds.	Vision is by far the most prevalent sense for experiencing others' body shapes, postures, actions, and intentions, and its congenital absence may dramatically hamper body-shape representation in the brain. We investigated whether the absence of visual experience and limited exposure to others' body shapes could still lead to body-shape selectivity. We taught congenitally fully-blind adults to perceive full-body shapes conveyed through a sensory-substitution algorithm topographically translating images into soundscapes [1]. Despite the limited experience of the congenitally blind with external body shapes (via touch of close-by bodies and for ~10 hr via soundscapes), once the blind could retrieve body shapes via soundscapes, they robustly activated the visual cortex, specifically the extrastriate body area (EBA; [2]). Furthermore, body selectivity versus textures, objects, and faces in both the blind and sighted control groups was not found in the temporal (auditory) or parietal (somatosensory) cortex but only in the visual EBA. Finally, resting-state data showed that the blind EBA is functionally connected to the temporal cortex temporal-parietal junction/superior temporal sulcus Theory-of-Mind areas [3]. Thus, the EBA preference is present without visual experience and with little exposure to external body-shape information, supporting the view that the brain has a sensory-independent, task-selective supramodal organization rather than a sensory-specific organization.
Attention in the real world: toward understanding its neural basis.	The efficient selection of behaviorally relevant objects from cluttered environments supports our everyday goals. Attentional selection has typically been studied in search tasks involving artificial and simplified displays. Although these studies have revealed important basic principles of attention, they do not explain how the brain efficiently selects familiar objects in complex and meaningful real-world scenes. Findings from recent neuroimaging studies indicate that real-world search is mediated by 'what' and 'where' attentional templates that are implemented in high-level visual cortex. These templates represent target-diagnostic properties and likely target locations, respectively, and are shaped by object familiarity, scene context, and memory. We propose a framework for real-world search that incorporates these recent findings and specifies directions for future study. 
Interaction of feedforward and feedback streams in visual cortex in a firing-rate model of columnar computations.	Visual sensory input stimuli are rapidly processed along bottom-up feedforward cortical streams. Beyond such driving streams neurons in higher areas provide information that is re-entered into the representations and responses at the earlier stages of processing. The precise mechanisms and underlying functionality of such associative feedforward/feedback interactions are not resolved. This work develops a neuronal circuit at a level mimicking cortical columns with response properties linked to single cell recordings. The proposed model constitutes a coarse-grained model with gradual firing-rate responses which accounts for physiological in vitro recordings from mammalian cortical cells. It is shown that the proposed population-based circuit with gradual firing-rate dynamics generates responses like those of detailed biophysically realistic multi-compartment spiking models. The results motivate using a coarse-grained mechanism for large-scale neural network modeling and simulations of visual cortical mechanisms. They further provide insights about how local recurrent loops change the gain of modulating feedback signals.
Spatial specificity of working memory representations in the early visual cortex.	Recent fMRI decoding studies have demonstrated that early retinotopic visual areas exhibit similar patterns of activity during the perception of a stimulus and during the maintenance of that stimulus in working memory. These findings provide support for the sensory recruitment hypothesis that the mechanisms underlying perception serve as a foundation for visual working memory. However, a recent study by Ester, Serences, and Awh (2009) found that the orientation of a peripheral grating maintained in working memory could be classified from both the contralateral and ipsilateral regions of the primary visual cortex (V1), implying that, unlike perception, feature-specific information was maintained in a nonretinotopic manner. Here, we evaluated the hypothesis that early visual areas can maintain information in a spatially specific manner and will do so if the task encourages the binding of feature information to a specific location. To encourage reliance on spatially specific memory, our experiment required observers to retain the orientations of two laterally presented gratings. Multivariate pattern analysis revealed that the orientation of each remembered grating was classified more accurately based on activity patterns in the contralateral than in the ipsilateral regions of V1 and V2. In contrast, higher extrastriate areas exhibited similar levels of performance across the two hemispheres. A time-resolved analysis further indicated that the retinotopic specificity of the working memory representation in V1 and V2 was maintained throughout the retention interval. Our results suggest that early visual areas provide a cortical basis for actively maintaining information about the features and locations of stimuli in visual working memory. 
Distinct spatio-temporal profiles of beta-oscillations within visual and sensorimotor areas during action recognition as revealed by MEG.	The neural correlates of action recognition have been widely studied in visual and sensorimotor areas of the human brain. However, the role of neuronal oscillations involved during the process of action recognition remains unclear. Here, we were interested in how the plausibility of an action modulates neuronal oscillations in visual and sensorimotor areas. Subjects viewed point-light displays (PLDs) of biomechanically plausible and implausible versions of the same actions. Using magnetoencephalography (MEG), we examined dynamic changes of oscillatory activity during these action recognition processes. While both actions elicited oscillatory activity in visual and sensorimotor areas in several frequency bands, a significant difference was confined to the beta-band (20Hz). An increase of power for plausible actions was observed in left temporal, parieto-occipital and sensorimotor areas of the brain, in the beta-band in successive order between 1650 and 2650msec. These distinct spatio-temporal beta-band profiles suggest that the action recognition process is modulated by the degree of biomechanical plausibility of the action, and that spectral power in the beta-band may provide a functional interaction between visual and sensorimotor areas in humans. 
Color opponent receptive fields self-organize in a biophysical model of visual cortex via spike-timing dependent plasticity.	Although many computational models have been proposed to explain orientation maps in primary visual cortex (V1), it is not yet known how similar clusters of color-selective neurons in macaque V1/V2 are connected and develop. In this work, we address the problem of understanding the cortical processing of color information with a possible mechanism of the development of the patchy distribution of color selectivity via computational modeling. Each color input is decomposed into a red, green, and blue representation and transmitted to the visual cortex via a simulated optic nerve in a luminance channel and red-green and blue-yellow opponent color channels. Our model of the early visual system consists of multiple topographically-arranged layers of excitatory and inhibitory neurons, with sparse intra-layer connectivity and feed-forward connectivity between layers. Layers are arranged based on anatomy of early visual pathways, and include a retina, lateral geniculate nucleus, and layered neocortex. Each neuron in the V1 output layer makes synaptic connections to neighboring neurons and receives the three types of signals in the different channels from the corresponding photoreceptor position. Synaptic weights are randomized and learned using spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). After training with natural images, the neurons display heightened sensitivity to specific colors. Information-theoretic analysis reveals mutual information between particular stimuli and responses, and that the information reaches a maximum with fewer neurons in the higher layers, indicating that estimations of the input colors can be done using the output of fewer cells in the later stages of cortical processing. In addition, cells with similar color receptive fields form clusters. Analysis of spiking activity reveals increased firing synchrony between neurons when particular color inputs are presented or removed (ON-cell/OFF-cell). 
Integration of visual and motor functional streams in the human brain.	A long-standing difficulty in brain research has been to disentangle how information flows across circuits composed by multiple local and distant cerebral areas. At the large-scale level, several brain imaging methods have contributed to the understanding of those circuits by capturing the covariance or coupling patterns of blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) activity between distributed brain regions. The hypothesis is that underlying information processes are closely associated to synchronized brain activity, and therefore to the functional connectivity structure of the human brain. In this study, we have used a recently developed method called stepwise functional connectivity analysis. Our results show that motor and visual connectivity merge in a multimodal integration network that links together perception, action and cognition in the human functional connectome. 
Vision]	The existence of two visual information pathways has gained acceptance, and the entire scheme of visual information processing has been understood. The visual cortex has been subdivided into areas, whose neurophysiological properties have been examined in the monkey. Our understanding of the visual processing system has been built by information earned in parts. However, despite knowledge about the complete process, the associations between the individual components remain to be understood. In addition, elucidating the neural basis of perception experienced in daily living would be a challenge in the future.
Visual attention and its control mechanisms]	Given the vast amount of visual information in visual scenes, the capacity of our brain to processes such scenes is severely limited. The core mechanism of selection is referred to as visual attention, and it has been the topic of intense investigation for over 25 years in experimental psychology and cognitive neuroscience. Visual attention is not a single, unitary mechanism, but consists of multiple subcomponents. Attention can be directed to various aspects of visual information, such as spatial location, features, or objects. Additionally, attention is guided by external factors such as the salience of stimuli, or whether we are able to move our attention volitionally. The purpose of this article is to review the status of these components of attentional guidance and how they interact with each other, with an emphasis on psychophysical studies.
In vivo functional localization of the human visual cortex using positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging.	Positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are two recently developed methods for imaging the human brain in vivo. One application of PET measures stimulus-evoked changes in cerebral blood flow while MRI provides a detailed anatomical map of the brain. Here we report the combined application of these two techniques in the same human subject. Subtracted PET scans of a brain receiving visual stimulation were superimposed upon MRI images of the same brain. The PET scans were converted into the MRI coordinate space before superposition, which allowed for a more precise correlation between MRI anatomical data and PET physiological data. Responses were localized in striate and extrastriate visual areas as well as in the posterior thalamus.
Neural mechanisms of object-based attention.	How we attend to objects and their features that cannot be separated by location is not understood. We presented two temporally and spatially overlapping streams of objects, faces versus houses, and used magnetoencephalography and functional magnetic resonance imaging to separate neuronal responses to attended and unattended objects. Attention to faces versus houses enhanced the sensory responses in the fusiform face area (FFA) and parahippocampal place area (PPA), respectively. The increases in sensory responses were accompanied by induced gamma synchrony between the inferior frontal junction, IFJ, and either FFA or PPA, depending on which object was attended. The IFJ appeared to be the driver of the synchrony, as gamma phases were advanced by 20 ms in IFJ compared to FFA or PPA. Thus, the IFJ may direct the flow of visual processing during object-based attention, at least in part through coupled oscillations with specialized areas such as FFA and PPA. 
The stimulus-evoked population response in visual cortex of awake monkey is a propagating wave.	Propagating waves occur in many excitable media and were recently found in neural systems from retina to neocortex. While propagating waves are clearly present under anaesthesia, whether they also appear during awake and conscious states remains unclear. One possibility is that these waves are systematically missed in trial-averaged data, due to variability. Here we present a method for detecting propagating waves in noisy multichannel recordings. Applying this method to single-trial voltage-sensitive dye imaging data, we show that the stimulus-evoked population response in primary visual cortex of the awake monkey propagates as a travelling wave, with consistent dynamics across trials. A network model suggests that this reliability is the hallmark of the horizontal fibre network of superficial cortical layers. Propagating waves with similar properties occur independently in secondary visual cortex, but maintain precise phase relations with the waves in primary visual cortex. These results show that, in response to a visual stimulus, propagating waves are systematically evoked in several visual areas, generating a consistent spatiotemporal frame for further neuronal interactions. 
The cortical column, a new processing unit for cortex-like networks]	We propose in this paper a new connectionnist model which is the result of a collaboration between computer science and neurobiology researchers. This model is based upon a cortical-like network close to cortical function simulation. We present its functional and architectural characteristics together with the very encouraging results obtained for the first simulations on the visual and auditory cortical functions in speech and character recognition.
Mechanisms of visual perceptual learning in macaque visual cortex.	The neural mechanisms underlying behavioral improvement in the detection or discrimination of visual stimuli following learning are still ill understood. Studies in nonhuman primates have shown relatively small and, across studies, variable effects of fine discrimination learning in primary visual cortex when tested outside the context of the learned task. At later stages, such as extrastriate area V4, extensive practice in fine discrimination produces more consistent effects upon responses and neural tuning. In V1 and V4, the effects of learning were most prominent in those neurons that can contribute the most reliable information about the trained stimuli. I suggest that, depending on the particulars of the task demands, neurons at various stages of stimulus and task processing can change their tuning and responses, so that execution of the task will produce a higher frequency of reward. I speculate that the sort of changes that will occur depend on the task and on stimulus analysis requirements, and they may vary from changes in bottom-up stimulus processing/tuning within early visual areas or more efficient readout of early visual areas to top-down driven changes in response properties of these areas. 
Statistical models of natural images and cortical visual representation.	A fundamental question in visual neuroscience is: Why are the response properties of visual neurons as they are? A modern approach to this problem emphasizes the importance of adaptation to ecologically valid input, and it proceeds by modeling statistical regularities in ecologically valid visual input (natural images). A seminal model was linear sparse coding, which is equivalent to independent component analysis (ICA), and provided a very good description of the receptive fields of simple cells. Further models based on modeling residual dependencies of the ''independent" components have later been introduced. These models lead to emergence of further properties of visual neurons: the complex cell receptive fields, the spatial organization of the cells, and some surround suppression and Gestalt effects. So far, these models have concentrated on the response properties of neurons, but they hold great potential to model various forms of inference and learning. 
Discontinuities along lines: psychophysics and neurophysiology.	If a segment of a line differs in luminance or color from the rest of the line, three illusory phenomena may be perceived: a reduction in contrast of the line segment relative to the background, subjective contours running perpendicularly to the ends of the line segment, and spread of color or brightness surrounding the line segment. All three phenomena cause a perceptual enhancement of the line discontinuity. Their psychophysical properties and possible neurophysiological correlates in the visual cortex are discussed. Contrast reduction has characteristics similar to end-stopped neuronal responses. Subjective contours elicit orientation-specific neuronal responses in areas 17 and 18. Neon color and brightness spreading may be mediated by "dot-responsive" cells in area 19.
Axis of preferred motion is a function of bar length in visual cortical receptive fields.	The responses of 82 simple cells and 41 complex cells in area 17 of anesthetized and paralysed cats were examined with light bars of different length. For 84% of the simple cells and 66% of the complex cells the preferred axis of orientation of a stationary flashing long bar (orientational selectivity) and the preferred axis of movement of a small spot were parallel. As a consequence, the axis of maximal response to a moving light spot was mostly orthogonal to the optimal axis of a moving bar. Thus, a single cell responds to two perpendicular axes of preferred movement one for a long bar and one for a light spot, respectively. For both axes independent direction preferences could be distinguished. Additional preferred axes of movement between the two orthogonal extremes could be found with moving bars of intermediate lengths. This can be explained by the fact that cells with a pronounced response to a moving spot showed a strong tendency for intermediate bar length to elicit responses consisting of a superposition of both components. Therefore, decreasing bar length resulted in a gradual rotation of the preferred direction of movement from orthogonal to parallel with respect to the orientational axis, rather than to a mere widening of the tuning curve. Accordingly, the change in orientation selectivity with decreasing bar length is a regular transition from the orientation dependent response to a response type that depends only on the movement axis of the spot. Thus, in a simple model, the resulting response characteristic can be interpreted as an average of both components weighted according to the length of the stimulus.
Monocular and binocular response properties of cells in the striate-recipient zone of the cat's lateral posterior-pulvinar complex.	1. We have studied response properties of single cells in the striate-recipient zone of the cat's lateral posterior-pulvinar (LP-P) complex. This zone is in the lateral section of the lateral posterior nucleus (LP1). Our purpose was to determine basic response characteristics of these cells and to investigate the possibility that the LP-P complex is a center of integration that is dominated by input from visual cortex. 2. The majority (72%) of cells in the striate-recipient zone respond to drifting sinusoidal gratings with unmodulated discharge. 3. Cells in the LP1 are selective to the orientation of gratings, and tuning functions have a mean bandwidth of 31 degrees. More than one-half of these units are direction-selective. The preferred orientation and the tuning widths for the two eyes are generally well matched. However, a few cells exhibited the interesting property of opposite preferred directions for the two eyes. Orientation tuning for a small group of cells was different for the mean discharge and first harmonic components, suggesting a convergence from different inputs to these cells. 4. Two-thirds of LP1 cells are tuned to low spatial frequencies (less than 0.5 c/deg). The tuning is broad with a mean bandwidth of 2.2 octaves. The remaining one-third of the units are low-pass because they show no attenuation of their responses to low spatial frequencies. Both eyes exhibit the same spatial frequency preference and the same spatial frequency tuning. There is a high correlation between spatial frequency and orientation selectivities. 5. All cells tested are tuned for temporal frequency with a sharp attenuation for low frequencies. The optimal values range between 4 and 8 Hz, and the mean bandwidth is 2.2 octaves. 6. Cells in LP1 are mostly binocular. When monocular, cells are almost always contralaterally driven. Dichoptic presentation of gratings reveals the presence of strong binocular interaction. In almost all cases, these interactions are phase specific. The cell's discharge is facilitated at particular phases and inhibited at phases 180 degrees away. These binocular interactions are orientation dependent. 7. Twenty-five percent of the cells with phase-specific binocular facilitation appear to be monocular when each eye is tested separately. For three cells, we observed a non-phase-specific inhibitory effect of the silent eye. 8. Our findings indicate that LP1 cells form a relatively homogeneous group, suggesting a high degree of integration of multiple cortical inputs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Iso- and cross-oriented columns in cat striate cortex: a study with simultaneous single- and multi-unit recordings.	The constancy of orientation tuning in vertical columns of the visual cortex of the cat was examined with conventional and newly developed multi-electrode methods. Preferred orientation was measured with single- and multi-unit recordings in 68 penetrations approximately perpendicular to the cortical layers and with inter-recording steps of only 40-70 microns. The tuning curves obtained revealed three types of penetration sequences: no-shift penetrations (37%), one-shift penetrations (41%) and double-shift penetrations (22%). Particular attention was paid to the orientation tuning at the transition zones below layer IV. The use of the multi-unit recording technique enabled the measurement of cross-oriented activity within a single electrode position mostly around the border between layers IV and V. Altering the type of anaesthesia (ventilation with room air or nitrous oxide-oxygen) produced only a quantitative change in the percentage of the encountered penetration types. The results suggest that upper and lower layers follow different principles of functional organization. As a consequence different types of columns, especially iso- and cross-oriented ones, are produced in a systematic way.
Two-dimensional tilt illusions induced by orthogonal plaid patterns: effects of plaid motion, orientation, spatial separation, and spatial frequency.	Tilt illusions occur when a drifting vertical test grating is surrounded by a drifting plaid pattern composed of orthogonal moving gratings. The angular function of this illusion was measured as the plaid orientation (and therefore its drift direction) varied over a 180 degrees range. This was done when the test and inducing stimuli abutted and had the same spatial frequency, and when the test and inducing stimuli either differed in frequency by an octave, or were spatially separated by a 2 deg blank annulus, or both differed in frequency and were also separated by the annulus (experiments 1-4). The obtained angular function was virtually identical to that obtained previously with the rod and frame effect and other cases involving orthogonal inducing components, with evidence for illusions induced both by real-line components and by virtual axes of symmetry. Although the magnitude of the illusion was very similar in all four experiments, there was evidence to suggest that largest real-line effects occurred in the abutting same-frequency condition, with a pattern of results similar to that obtained previously with the simple one-dimensional tilt illusion. On the other hand, virtual-axis effects were more prominent with gaps between test and inducing stimuli. A fifth, repeated-measures, experiment confirmed this pattern of results. It is suggested that this pattern-induced tilt effect reflects both striate and extrastriate mechanisms and that the apparent influence of spatially distal virtual axes of symmetry upon perceived orientation implies the existence of AND-gate mechanisms, or conjunction detectors, in the orientation domain.
Spatial and orientation specific integration in the tilt illusion.	Lateral inhibition across a population of cells in visual cortex which are tuned to local orientation has been proposed and widely accepted as a basic process in the analysis of contour in the visual field. The tilt illusion is usually explained in terms of this inhibition. Experiments are reported which cast new light on the analysis of visual orientation. It is shown that tilt illusions may be obtained with very thin inducing annuli which are spatially remote from the test figure. In experiments in which remote crossed-grating plaids were used, an illusion which was pattern (global) rather than component (local) selective was seen. It is difficult to account for these observations in terms of local inhibitory mechanisms. Rather, the results support the existence of a secondary mechanism which is involved in basic orientation analytic processes. The relevance of these observations to models of visual contour analysis is discussed.
The temporal distribution of stimulus information in the visual evoked potential.	Research in psychophysics (Bloch's law) and perceptual experiments concerned with the integration of successively presented stimuli suggest that the perception of form is a process that occurs over a period of as much as 200-300 msec. Such results prompted the question of whether the visual evoked potential (VEP) might contain information about the distribution over time of perceptual processing. Subjects viewed lines formed from combinations of three lengths and four angles while the EEG was recorded. Analysis of the VEPs indicated that the length and angle of the lines produced temporal distributions of information in the VEP and that the distributions for length and angle were somewhat different. The major difference was that the processing of angle begins earlier and is completed sooner than the processing of length. A conclusion of the experiment was that an alternative or supplement to analyzing VEPs for specific waveform features is to consider the encoding of stimulus information in the VEP as a density or concentration over time.
Response latencies of visual cells in macaque areas V1, V2 and V5.	The response to moving light and dark slits was recorded from a total of 94 cells in V1, V2, and V5 (MT) in 9 anesthetized and paralyzed macaque monkeys (M. fascicularis). Using the spatial lag method2, response latencies were calculated for each cell. We obtained median latencies of 85, 96, and 94 ms for cells in areas V1, V2, and V5, respectively. The higher median latencies of V2 and V5 cells compared to V1 are commensurate with later stages of information processing, and are predictable from the anatomy of the interconnections. In addition, a distinct, second population of high-latency cells is present in all 3 regions, but is most abundant in lamina 4 of V5. These may represent either external feedback from other regions or ongoing processing. Extensive overlap of latencies in all 3 regions at both the high and low ends of their respective ranges indicates a considerable degree of parallel interaction between striate and extrastriate cortex.
Retinocortical time exhibits spatial selectivity.	We recorded simultaneous electroretinograms and visual evoked potentials to pattern-reversal stimulus in ten normal subjects employing check sizes subtending 7.5, 15, 30, 60, 120, 240 and 480 min of visual arc. The mean peak latency of the pattern electroretinogram (PERG) b wave decreased logarithmically with increasing check size. The mean peak latency of the pattern visual evoked potential (PVEP) P100 component was shortest for 30 min check size and was longer at both smaller and larger check sizes, a phenomenon termed spatial selectivity. Retinocortical time (RCT) was calculated as the latency difference between the PVEP P100 peak and the PERG b wave. The RCT also exhibited spatial selectivity similar to that of the PVEP P100 component; mean RCT was shortest for 30 min check size and was longer at both smaller and larger check sizes. Implications are discussed in light of our current knowledge of the origins of the PERG and PVEP and visual processing of pattern-reversal stimuli. Simultaneous recording of PERGs and PVEPs in patients with disease of the afferent visual pathways employing a large range of check sizes may increase the diagnostic sensitivity of visual electrophysiologic testing.
Topographic projections to the visual cortex from the basal forebrain in the rat.	Recent studies have shown that cholinergic neurons within the basal forebrain give rise to a projection that terminates throughout the neocortex. The purpose of the present study is to determine the topographic organization of the basal forebrain projection to a single cortical region: the visual cortex. Injections of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase were placed within the infragranular layers of areas 17, 18a or 18b in Long-Evans hooded rats. Following injections placed within area 18a, retrogradely labeled neurons were located primarily within the caudal components of the basal forebrain including the basal nucleus of Meynert. Injections placed within area 18b, on the other hand, resulted in retrograde labeling of numerous neurons within rostral basal forebrain nuclei, including the horizontal limb of the diagonal band of Broca, whereas only a few labeled cells were located within the basal nucleus. Two patterns of labeled cells were evident following injections placed within area 17 and they resembled the results from injections within the adjacent extrastriate area; i.e. either area 18a or area 18b. Thus, injections restricted to the lateral portions of area 17 resulted in retrograde labeling of neurons located within the caudal levels of the basal forebrain, whereas injections within the medial portions of area 17 were followed by retrograde labeling of neurons within the rostral levels of the basal forebrain. Based on these results we suggest that the cholinergic corticopetal projection terminates within the visual cortex in a medial to lateral pattern.
The contribution of GABA-mediated inhibitory mechanisms to visual response properties of neurons in the kitten's striate cortex.	The effect of the microiontophoretic administration of the GABA antagonist bicuculline methiodide (BMI) on the responses of striate cortical neurons to light stimulation was investigated in kittens ranging in age between 11 and 28 d. The orientation sensitivity of the majority of the 88 neurons tested for this parameter decreased (40%) or was eliminated (18%) following the administration of BMI. Changes were seen in all layers and in all neuronal types, and the proportions of neurons that changed their orientation specificity were about the same during the second, third, and fourth postnatal weeks. Twenty-eight percent of the neurons were not affected in their orientation sensitivity by BMI. These neurons were recorded at all postnatal ages; they were located preferentially in layers IV and VI; and they had unimodal, bimodal, or ON-OFF mixed receptive fields. The remaining 14% of the neurons were initially unresponsive or responded in an erratic way to visual stimulation. These neurons became responsive and even exhibited orientation-specific responses during administration of BMI. The majority (56%) of direction-specific neurons became direction-nonspecific after the administration of BMI. Seventeen percent preserved some direction specificity, whereas 27% did not show any change at all. The effects of BMI on direction sensitivity were seen at all postnatal ages and on all neuronal types throughout layers III-VI. The majority of neurons unaffected by BMI in their direction sensitivity resided in layer VI. In those cases where orientation sensitivity was reduced, direction sensitivity (if present) was usually diminished as well. However, some neurons were found in which only 1 of the 2 parameters was significantly changed by BMI. The spatial structure of the receptive field, as revealed by stationary stimulation, was changed significantly by BMI in about half the neurons tested. A straightforward correlation between the alteration of orientation and/or direction sensitivity and changes in receptive-field structure was not found. The results demonstrate that, in the immature striate cortex, receptive-field properties of many neurons are determined by inhibitory processes mediated by GABA, which may also dictate the actual visual responsiveness of the neurons. The dissociations in the effects of BMI on orientation sensitivity, direction sensitivity, and receptive-field substructure indicate that the synaptic organization responsible for the various functional parameters is unlikely to be the same.
Panum's phenomenon and the confluence of signals from the two eyes in stereoscopy.	The signals from the two eyes must be routed to allow either eye to have access to the processing mechanisms for position, shape, colour, etc.; at the same time, information as to the eye of origin must be retained for the purposes of stereoscopy. The study of this confluence of signals from the two eyes was approached psychophysically by studying induced position and depth changes of adjacent binocular and monocular stimuli in the human fovea. It was demonstrated that a monocular visual stimulus located near a binocular one acquires a depth signal, according to a scheme originally proposed by Panum. The effect is unspecific as regards feature shape and brightness, and falls off with a length constant of about 15 minutes of arc in the fovea. A monocular stimulus also affects the apparent depth of its binocular neighbour in a centre-surround manner; disparity pooling changes to disparity repulsion when features are separated by distances of about 3 minutes of arc in the fovea. The findings led to the development of a scheme of uniocular connectivity to a matrix of depth units. Excitation patterns here would depend on the state of the input lines, the intrinsic neuronal interaction properties, and contextural configuring influences from other parts of the nervous system. Experiments showing the spatial extent of pooling and repulsive interaction within the disparity domain help to characterize the stimulus processing in this neural ensemble.
An aspect of the organizational principle of the gamma-aminobutyric acidergic system in the cerebral cortex.	The possibility of the colocalization of a Ca2+-binding protein, parvalbumin (PV), with peptides, cholecystokinin (CCK) and somatostatin (SS), all of which are known to be contained gamma-aminobutyric acidergic neurons in the cerebral cortex, was tested in the rat visual cortex by means of immunohistochemistry using the adjacent section technique. No PV immunoreactive (PV-I) neurons showed CCK-like immunoreactivity, and almost none (932 out of 934 PV-I neurons examined) showed SS-like immunoreactivity. These observations suggest that the GABAergic system of the cerebral cortex may consist of some distinct subsystems with different chemical and presumably physiological characteristics.
Spatial properties of neurons in the monkey striate cortex.	Contrast sensitivity as a function of spatial frequency was determined for 138 neurons in the foveal region of primate striate cortex. The accuracy of three models in describing these functions was assessed by the method of least squares. Models based on difference-of-Gaussians (DOG) functions where shown to be superior to those based on the Gabor function or the second differential of a Gaussian. In the most general case of the DOG models, each subregion of a simple cell's receptive field was constructed from a single DOG function. All the models are compatible with the classical observation that the receptive fields of simple cells are made up of spatially discrete 'on' and 'off' regions. Although the DOG-based models have more free parameters, they can account better for the variety of shapes of spatial contrast sensitivity functions observed in cortical cells and, unlike other models, they provide a detailed description of the organization of subregions of the receptive field that is consistent with the physiological constraints imposed by earlier stages in the visual pathway. Despite the fact that the DOG-based models have spatially discrete components, the resulting amplitude spectra in the frequency domain describe complex cells just as well as simple cells. The superiority of the DOG-based models as a primary spatial filter is discussed in relation to popular models of visual processing that use the Gabor function or the second differential of a Gaussian.
The retinal ganglion cell mosaic defines orientation columns in striate cortex.	A computer simulation was used to demonstrate that the tangential organization of orientation columns is a natural consequence of the orderly projection of the mosaic of retinal ganglion cells onto the visual cortex. Parameters of the simulation were taken from published anatomical and electrophysiological data, and the resulting columnar organization of the simulated visual cortex shows many similarities with observations from animals. The model is able to account for a variety of experimental observations, including the presence of orientation columns in visually inexperienced animals.
Electrophysiological properties of ependymal cells (radial glia) in dorsal cortex of the turtle, Pseudemys scripta.	1. We have investigated the electrophysiological properties of ependymal cells in the isolated dorsal cortex of the turtle, Pseudemys scripta. The cell bodies of these radial glia form an epithelium at the ventricular surface, and each cell sends one or more branching processes through the cortex to the pial surface. Very few non-ependymal glia exist in the dorsal cortex. 2. Ependymal cells had high resting membrane potentials (-90 mV), very fast time constants and a lack of intrinsic excitability or synaptic potentials. 3. Changes in the K+ concentration ([K+]) of the bathing solution caused near-Nernstian changes of ependymal membrane potentials. When local neuronal pathways were activated, ependymal cells slowly depolarized while extracellular voltage shifted negatively. Simultaneous measurements of extracellular [K+] ([K+]o) near the impaled ependymal cell body showed that these slow depolarizations were fully accounted for by activity-dependent increases in [K+]o. Similar measurements during focal pressure applications of solutions with high [K+] suggested that intrasomatic recordings reflect predominantly the [K+]o adjacent to the cell body, and not the intracortical process. 4. Intracellular injections of the fluorescent dye Lucifer Yellow CH, and simultaneous recordings from neighbouring cells, indicated that ependymal cells are chemically and electrically coupled to one another. Increasing the ambient CO2 level from 5 to 40% depolarized cells, increased their input resistance, and abolished interglial dye coupling. 5. The physiological properties of ependymal cells are very similar to those of a variety of glial cell types in a range of vertebrate and invertebrate species. In the absence of other types of glia, radial glia may function as the sole cellular mediators of K+ redistribution (i.e. K+ spatial buffering) following neural activity, as well as the generators of slow extracellular potentials.
Continuity or incontinuity of orientation columns in visual cortex: a critical evaluation of published and unpublished data.	Orientation columns in the visual cortex of cat and monkey were originally defined as small areas where all cells from layer 2 to 6 had the same preferred stimulus orientation. Large variation in preferred orientation, occasionally observed, were interpreted as biological scatter or artefacts. In contrast to this view, recent experiments revealed frequent abrupt shifts in preferred orientations at the transition from middle to lower layers. This controversial issue is of considerable relevance for models of cortical wiring. Therefore, in this report new and previously published data are quantitatively evaluated. The comparison shows that the large orientation shifts cannot be reconciled as mainly due to deviation of penetrations from the radial cell columns. The present data suggest that, in middle and lower layers of the cat's cortex, two groups of cells with approximately orthogonal orientations coexist. Comparison of results from different authors supports our evidence for the occurrence of orientation shifts. The controversy is reduced to the difference in the proportions of penetrations with and without shifts in different laboratories. A possible explanation for this remaining difference is the lower relative frequency of shifts in heavily sedated animals. Our own data were collected from awake, behaving or lightly anesthetized animals in chronic preparations.
Cutaneous stimulus registration and information processing in the somesthetic cortex.	The author reviews the evidence that the acquisition of sequential tactile information and stereometric object identification by manual exploration is a process which is analogous to the scanning of visual scenes. The hypothesis that somatosensory and visual maps in the respective primary cortical projection areas are of the same analytical structure is argued. New experimental data documented in subhuman primates demonstrate that neural responses to cutaneous stimuli depend on situational factors and on behavior-controlling instructions conveyed over another sense modality and that as a result the redundancy of cutaneous stimulus encoding in the somesthetic cortex is reduced.
Specification of cerebral cortical areas.	How the immense population of neurons that constitute the human cerebral neocortex is generated from progenitors lining the cerebral ventricle and then distributed to appropriate layers of distinctive cytoarchitectonic areas can be explained by the radial unit hypothesis. According to this hypothesis, the ependymal layer of the embryonic cerebral ventricle consists of proliferative units that provide a proto-map of prospective cytoarchitectonic areas. The output of the proliferative units is translated via glial guides to the expanding cortex in the form of ontogenetic columns, whose final number for each area can be modified through interaction with afferent input. Data obtained through various advanced neurobiological techniques, including electron microscopy, immunocytochemistry, [3H]thymidine and receptor autoradiography, retrovirus gene transfer, neural transplants, and surgical or genetic manipulation of cortical development, furnish new details about the kinetics of cell proliferation, their lineage relationships, and phenotypic expression that favor this hypothesis. The radial unit model provides a framework for understanding cerebral evolution, epigenetic regulation of the parcellation of cytoarchitectonic areas, and insight into the pathogenesis of certain cortical disorders in humans.
A comparison of perceptive and receptive fields in man and monkey.	We have measured the perceptive field, the psychophysical correlate of the physiologically determined receptive field, in man and monkey. Measurements were made using the Hermann grid illusion and the Westheimer paradigm. The following results were found: First, in both man and monkey, the size of perceptive fields and field centers increases from the fovea to the periphery. As with receptive fields, this increase is first rapid and then more gradual; and it is more pronounced on the temporal than on the nasal side of the retina. Second, monkey and human perceptive field centers are approximately the same size. But total perceptive fields (i.e., centers plus surrounds) tend to be smaller in monkeys. Third, in monkey, psychophysically measured perceptive field centers are about the same size as neurophysiologically measured receptive field centers. And as these, they are larger, by a factor 1.3-2, than histologically measured dendritic fields. These findings strongly indicate that in monkey all three measurements refer to the same underlying retinal mechanism. The same relationship is assumed to hold in man.
Spatial summation and the cortical magnification of perimetric profiles.	M-scaling of the conventional spot targets of clinical perimetry at low photopic adaptation levels, such as that of the Octopus automated perimeter, does not result in the expected isosensitive profile using the current equations for humans. This disparity has been attributed to variations in the ganglion cell characteristics across the retina, most notably that of spatial summation. The hypothesis was further investigated by M-scaling the perimetric sensitivity recorded under conditions favouring reduced spatial summation, namely an increased adaptation level and a longer stimulus duration afforded by the Humphrey Field Analyzer. The M-scaled data exhibited a paracentral reduction in sensitivity relative to the theoretical isosensitive profile and an increased sensitivity beyond an eccentricity of 12 degrees. This indicates that for perimetric spot stimuli, the current human M-scaling equations under represent the fovea at the visual cortex. The implications for the design of perimetric routines are discussed.
Organization of orientation and direction selectivity in areas 17 and 18 of cat cerebral cortex.	1. The organization of subunits and sequences subserving preferred stimulus orientation and preferred direction of stimulus motion in cat cerebral cortical areas 17 and 18 was determined by making vertical, tangential, and oblique microelectrode penetrations into those areas. 2. Quantitative measurements of direction selectivity indicated that not all shades of direction selectivity are equally represented in area 17. Peaks in the distribution of direction indices may correspond to the bidirectional, direction biased, and direction selective categories used in qualitative studies. 3. The relationship between preferred direction and location in the visual field was examined for units with receptive fields centered more than 15 degrees from the area centralis. Simple cells had orientation preferences that tended to be parallel to radii extending out from the area centralis. Wide-field complex cells had orientation preferences that tended to be parallel to concentric circles centered on the area centralis; the direction preferences of this group were biased toward motion away from the area centralis. 4. Unit pairs separated by 200 microns or less were 4.2 times as likely to have the same preferred direction as to have opposite preferred directions, indicating that, on average, strings of five neurons have similar direction preferences. 5. Tracks in area 18 showed a similar pattern to those in area 17. 6. In the vertical tracks in area 17 a small proportion (12%) of the units recorded in infragranular layers had preferred orientations that deviated 30 degrees or more from the first unit recorded in the same column. The presence of these cells most likely reflects the relative crowding of columns in infragranular layers, which occurs at the crown of the lateral gyrus. Columns with such large jumps in preferred orientation were not observed in area 18, which occupies a relatively flat region of cortex. 7. In both areas 17 and 18 direction preference in vertical tracks usually reversed at least once, either between supra- and infragranular layers or within infragranular layers. Along these same tracks, orientation preference usually did not change. 8. In tangential tracks, preferred direction and orientation preferences changed together in small increments. Occasionally a large jump in preferred direction would occur with only a small change in preferred orientation. These large jumps were considered to mark the boundaries of the direction sequences. Most frequently these boundaries were separated by 400-600 microns. This value is approximately half the size of a complete set of orientation preferences (700-1,200 microns).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Psychophysical evidence for separate channels for the perception of form, color, movement, and depth.	Physiological and anatomical findings in the primate visual system, as well as clinical evidence in humans, suggest that different components of visual information processing are segregated into largely independent parallel pathways. Such a segregation leads to certain predictions about human vision. In this paper we describe psychophysical experiments on the interactions of color, form, depth, and movement in human perception, and we attempt to correlate these aspects of visual perception with the different subdivisions of the visual system.
Experience-dependent modifications of kitten striate cortex are not prevented by thalamic lesions that include the intralaminar nuclei.	It has been shown previously that surgical lesions of the antero-medial thalamus interfere with ocular dominance modifications that normally result from monocular deprivation in young kittens (Singer 1982). The aim of the present study was to determine whether this effect was due specifically to the destruction of the visual cortical projections of the anterior intralaminar nuclei. We report here that large excitotoxin lesions of the anterior dorsal thalamus have no effect on the cortical response to monocular deprivation. These data indicate that the intralaminar projection is not essential for ocular dominance plasticity.
Spatial and temporal determinants of directionally selective velocity preference in cat striate cortex neurons.	1. Direction-selective properties of neurons in cat striate cortex (area 17) were studied with flashed and continuously moving bar stimuli. Receptive fields were characterized by measurement of static and dynamic parameters, which were correlated with the velocity preference exhibited by the same cells. 2. Each neuron was found to be direction selective to a limited range of velocities. This behavior was characterized by measuring the optimal velocity (Vopt) to elicit responses in the preferred and null directions that were maximally distinct. 3. A bar stimulus flashed sequentially at two nearby locations in the receptive field also produced direction-selective behavior, which was characterized by an optimal displacement (Dopt) to drive maximally distinct responses in the preferred versus null directions. 4. The static spatial receptive field properties were quantified by measurement of the receptive field size (2 sigma) and the spatial subunit wavelength (lambda). The latter quantity was measured as twice the separation between adjacent ON and OFF regions in simple cells and as twice the optimal separation for lateral inhibition between two simultaneously flashed bars in complex cells. 5. Direction-selective velocity preference for continuously moving stimuli, Vopt, was found to be highly correlated with lambda and with the Dopt for 2-flash motion; Vopt was also correlated to a lesser degree with 2 sigma. These results suggest a fundamental linkage between spatial frequency preference, velocity preference, and spatial tuning to 2-flash motion. 6. The range of measured direction-selective velocity preference values (Vopt) spanned about a 100-fold range, whereas the corresponding values of Dopt or lambda spanned substantially smaller ranges. This discrepancy suggested that the dynamic range of velocity preference among cortical neurons might be determined jointly by the measured spatial properties and by a temporal property that covaries with the measured spatial properties. 7. Temporal properties of striate cortical neurons were assessed from responses to flashed stimuli having a prolonged duration ("step responses"). Neurons typically responded in the following manner: after some latency (L), a transient rise in spike frequency occurred, which then adapted to some sustained level. The adaptation dynamics (extent of sustained vs. transient behavior) were quantified by the first-order time constant (AT) of the adaptation decay, and by the ratio of initial transient rise to final sustained level [adaptation ratio (AR)].(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Experimental induction of an abnormal ipsilateral visual field representation in the geniculocortical pathway of normally pigmented cats.	In the normally pigmented neonatal cat, many ganglion cells in temporal retina project to the contralateral dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNd) and medial interlaminar nucleus (MIN). Most of these cells are eliminated during postnatal development. If one optic tract is sectioned at birth, much of this exuberant projection from the contralateral temporal retina is stabilized (Leventhal et al., 1988b). To determine how the abnormal projection from the contralateral temporal retina is accommodated in the central visual pathways, neuronal activity was recorded in the visual thalamus and cortex of adult cats whose optic tracts were sectioned as neonates. The recordings showed that up to 20 degrees of the ipsilateral hemifield is represented in the LGNd and MIN. Recordings from areas 17 and 18 of the intact visual cortex showed that up to 20 degrees of the ipsilateral visual field is also represented and that the ipsilateral representation is organized as in a Boston Siamese cat (Hubel and Wiesel, 1971; Shatz, 1977; Cooper and Blasdel, 1980) or a heterozygous albino cat (Leventhal et al., 1985b). The extent of the ipsilateral visual field representation was greater in area 18 than in area 17; the extent of the ipsilateral hemifield representation in areas 17 and 18 varied with elevation, increasing with distance from the horizontal meridian. The receptive fields of cells in the LGNd and visual cortex subserving contralateral temporal retina were abnormally large. Otherwise, their receptive field properties seemed normal. In the same animals studied physiologically, HRP was injected into the ipsilateral hemifield representation in the LGNd and MIN of the intact hemisphere. The topographic distribution of the alpha and beta cells, respectively, labeled by these injections correlated with the elevation-related changes in the ipsilateral visual field representation in areas 18 and 17. Our results indicate that the retinotopic organization of the mature geniculocortical pathway reflects the abnormal pattern of central projections of ganglion cells in neonatally optic tract sectioned cats. Thus, if they do not die, retinal ganglion cells normally eliminated during development are capable of making seemingly normal, functional connections. The finding that an albino-like representation of the ipsilateral hemifield can be induced in the visual cortex of normally pigmented cats suggests that the well-documented defects in the geniculocortical pathways of albinos are secondary to the initial misrouting of ganglion cells at the optic chiasm (Kliot and Shatz, 1985) and not a result of albinism per se.
The overall pattern of ocular dominance bands in cat visual cortex.	This study describes the overall arrangement of geniculocortical input representing the system of cortical ocular dominance bands in layer IV of striate cortex in the adult cat. The pattern of ocular dominance bands was revealed by transneuronal transport of the intraocularly injected tracer wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP). Our data indicate that this procedure does not damage the retina and that it results in relatively uniform uptake and transport of the tracer. Using previously published techniques (Olavarria and Van Sluyters, 1983, 1985), both cortical hemispheres of each cat were unfolded, flattened and tangentially sectioned. Analysis of the WGA-HRP labeling patterns in these sections revealed a relatively continuous network of irregularly branching bands in layer IV of area 17 in both hemispheres. Because of a systematic difference in the level of interband labeling, ocular dominance bands appear less distinct in the hemisphere contralateral to the injected eye. There is also a tendency for interband labeling to be greater in cortical regions that represent the more peripheral aspects of the binocular portion of the visual field. The width of an individual ocular dominance band in the cat fluctuates, so that it appears to be made up of a series of uniformly sized, roughly circular beads of label. The diameter of these beads averages 667 micron, and preliminary counts indicate that there are 650-675 beads in each striate cortex. Contrary to earlier suggestions, in 4 out of 6 hemispheres analyzed quantitatively there was no tendency for ocular dominance bands to be oriented along a preferred axis in cat striate cortex, including an axis orthogonal to the border between areas 17 and 18. Ocular dominance bands in area 18 appear to be broader than those in area 17, and they seem to have a greater tendency to be oriented orthogonal to the 17/18 border than those in area 17. Compared with the ocular dominance pattern in monkey striate cortex, the ocular dominance pattern in the cat is much less regular. In general, cat ocular dominance bands appear to fluctuate more in width, to change direction more often, and to be less likely to run orthogonal to the 17/18 border. The greater regularity of the primate ocular dominance pattern may be related to differences in the way in which the visual hemifield is mapped onto the striate cortex in these 2 species.
A selective impairment of motion perception following lesions of the middle temporal visual area (MT).	Physiological experiments indicate that the middle temporal visual area (MT) of primates plays a prominent role in the cortical analysis of visual motion. We investigated the role of MT in visual perception by examining the effect of chemical lesions of MT on psychophysical thresholds. We trained rhesus monkeys on psychophysical tasks that enabled us to assess their sensitivity to motion and to contrast. For motion psychophysics, we employed a dynamic random dot display that permitted us to vary the intensity of a motion signal in the midst of masking motion noise. We measured the threshold intensity for which the monkey could successfully complete a direction discrimination. In the contrast task, we measured the threshold contrast for which the monkeys could successfully discriminate the orientation of stationary gratings. Injections of ibotenic acid into MT caused striking elevations in motion thresholds, but had little or no effect on contrast thresholds. The results indicate that neural activity in MT contributes selectively to the perception of motion.
Study of descending inhibitory and facilitory effect of the orbital cortex on the electrical discharges of medial geniculate body (MGB) neurons in rabbits.	Experiments were performed on 16 rabbits immobilized with flaxedil. The recording of spontaneous discharges and the discharges of single MGB neurons caused by clicks showed that when the cerebral-orbital cortex was stimulated, of 92 MGB neurons responding to clicks, 25 units (27.2%) were inhibited, 14 units (15.2%) were facilitated, and 15 units with spontaneous discharges were completely inhibited. The topographical distribution of stimulated points with such inhibitory and facilitory effect is quite concentrated on the orbital cortex. Stimulation of two adjacent points of the orbital cortex could respectively result in different kinds of inhibitory and facilitory effect on discharges of a same MGB neuron. Due to the existence of this descending effect with a short latent period (2-3 ms), the authors have reason to believe that there might be an "orbital cortex-MGB" direct pathway. Moreover, application of 2% procaine to block the auditory cortex behind the rhinal sulcus (ACBRS) could abolish the facilitory effect, with a long latency, of the orbital cortex. Therefore, the influence of the orbital cortex on MGB might be also transmitted via the "orbital-ACBRS-MGB" circuit.
Hyperstriatal lesions and classical conditioning in the pigeon.	In two experiments, pigeons with bilateral lesions of the hyperstriatum were compared with unoperated control birds and operated control subjects having bilateral lesions of the neostriatum on tasks designed to test two hypotheses of hyperstriatal function. In Experiment 1, hyperstriatal lesions impaired both the acquisition and maintenance of autoshaped responding as well as maintenance responding in response-omission training. In Experiment 2, hyperstriatal birds displayed depressed levels of responding relative to control birds on a classical go-no-go alternation schedule. These results support the view that hyperstriatal selectively disrupt classical conditioning and go against the view that hyperstriatal lesions exaggerate perseverative responding. A surprising aspect of the results was the performance of the operated control subjects that showed better performance in the acquisition of autoshaping and superior differentiation on the go-no-go schedule compared with the unoperated control birds.
Importance of the visual cortex for postural stabilization: inferences from pigeon and frog data.	Optokinetically induced self-motion with its consequences for postural balance is based upon visual-vestibular convergence. It is a matter for speculation which visual pathways--subcortical accessory optic tract and/or cortical striate projection--convey optokinetic information to the central vestibular system. The functional significance of the visual cortex was tested by a behavioral approach in two animals, selected for their different evolutionary stage: frog (midbrain visual center); pigeon (primitive neocortical center). Lateral postural sway during optokinetic stimulation in roll served as a measurement for induced rollvection and apparent body tilt. Roll motion elicits a tonic 'compensatory' postural adjustment towards the direction of pattern motion in pigeon as in man but not in frog. From the lack of this reaction we infer that the frog does not perceive rollvection because it has no visual cortex. This agrees with the absence of visual-vestibular convergence in the frogs vestibular nuclei neurons as well as the absence of a nystagmus velocity storage in the brainstem. The animal experiments fit human data in hemianopic patients who also only experience rollvection when stimulated in the unaffected hemifield.
Detection performance of normal cats and those lacking areas 17 and 18: a behavioral approach to analyse pattern recognition deficits.	The ability of cats to discriminate between two geometrical outline patterns in the presence of superimposed Gaussian visual noise was tested before and after bilateral removal of cortical area 17 and parts of area 18. The detection probability PD was measured as a function of the signal-to-noise ratio for the parameters: noise bandwidth, spatial frequency content and rate of movement of patterns. In both normal and lesioned cats a broadband noise was found to be most effective in masking the large patterns while two other types of noise, a medium frequency noise and a high frequency noise had little or no masking effect. For recognition of the smaller patterns in normal cats the medium frequency noise was found to be more effective than the broadband noise. The performance of the lesional cats was disturbed severely at low signal-to-noise ratios and was significantly inferior to that of normal cats-especially for small patterns. However, at high S/N ratios and for large patterns the performance of the lesioned cats was comparable to that of normals while for the small patterns they reached PD values inferior to those of normal cats. It is concluded that although pattern recognition can be performed successfully by cats lacking areas 17 and 18, these cortical areas probably make an essential contribution to this function under natural conditions in two ways: because of the X-type input of area 17, they increase the acuity of the system by making it more sensitive to higher spatial frequencies, and they permit detection of patterns at much lower S/N ratios i.e. they lower the signal-to-noise ratio at which the system is able to detect the presence of a pattern in a background of statistical visual noise. The latter effect is not limited to the higher spatial frequencies but also affects the very low spatial frequencies which are normally used for pattern detection. Previous failures to demonstrate clear deficits in pattern discrimination after 17/18 lesions in cats may be attributed to the fact that the patterns presented for discrimination were not masked by visual noise. Movement of patterns led to a slight, but not significant improvement of the performance in both normal and lesioned cats, but the deficits found for stationary and moving patterns were more or less equal.
Amplitude difference between pattern-evoked potentials after left and right hemifield stimulation in normal subjects.	The amplitude of visual evoked potentials (VEPs) to pattern hemifield stimulation was measured in 14 normal right-handed subjects. The paired t test was used to determine if the values differed between right and left hemifield stimulation. The amplitude of transient VEPs from a midoccipital electrode and a lateral occipital electrode ipsilateral to the hemifield stimulated was significantly greater with right hemifield stimulation. This result is compatible with neuroanatomic asymmetries of human striate cortex. Amplitude distribution over the scalp was markedly different between transient and steady-state VEPs that probably reflect activities of different populations of cortical neurons.
Principal components analysis for source localization of VEPs in man.	This study defines and compares the topologies of the visual evoked potentials to various stimuli such as pattern onset/offset, pattern reversal, pattern motion and high frequency luminance flicker. The responses recorded from 24 occipital derivations were examined using a three sphere conductance model to represent the head, with the assumption that activity from an underlying cortical source is equivalent to a single dipole. Principal components analysis was used to find the dimensionality of the data space. From this analysis could be concluded that all stimuli evoked responses in the primary visual cortex. Only pattern onset, and to a lesser degree pattern offset and pattern reversal, yielded activity in higher visual areas. In particular it has been shown that the CI, CII interval of the pattern onset response has its origins in two different cortical regions. A fast positive (CI)-negative (part of the CII) component arises from area 18 (or 19), a slower negative (initial part of CII) component comes from area 17.
Electrophysiological correlates of positive and negative afterimages.	We report here measurements of visual evoked potential (VEP) activity after induction of afterimages in human observers. Drifting gratings normally produce no measurable phase synchronized VEP. However, after an afterimage of a high contrast grating of the same orientation and spatial frequency of that of the drifting grating has been flashed on the retina. VEPs in synchrony with the drift frequency are produced. For up to about two minutes after the flash, the VEPs were all clustered in one phase, then declined for a minute or so, to reappear 180 degrees out of phase from the first VEPs. The first group of VEPs coincides with the percept of a positive afterimage, and the second with that of a negative afterimage. Possible explanations for the existence of positive and negative afterimages and the associated VEPs are considered.
Flicker adaptation in the peripheral retina.	With strict fixation, a flickering light spot smaller than 3 deg presented to the peripheral retina will rapidly appear to lose contrast and stop flickering within 35 s, before fading away completely. The time required for this adaptation to occur decreases with: decreasing depth of modulation (97-9%); decreasing stimulus diameter (2 deg-7 min arc); increasing retinal eccentricity (20-50 deg); and increasing flicker frequency (1-7 Hz). Interestingly, the effect does not depend upon the regularity of the flickering stimulus, and it occurs twice as fast for stimuli presented to the temporal retina as for stimuli presented to the nasal retina. When changes in retinal eccentricity are compensated for by taking into account the cortical magnification factor, the time needed for perceived flicker to disappear remains constant at all eccentricities. With dichoptic stimulation interocular transfer is about 35%, suggesting a cortical contribution to flicker adaptation. The results indicate that the visual system adapts rather easily to peripheral flickering stimuli. Similarities as well as differences to motion adaptation are discussed.
Role of a goal in determining neuronal activity of the motor and visual areas of the rabbit cortex]	In experiments on alert rabbits neuronal activity of the motor and visual cortical areas was studied in behavioural acts (BA) of grasping of a piece of plastics (P) and carrot (C) from consequently presented cups of the feeder; the animal had an opportunity to seize a C piece only after grasping and taking away from the previous cup the P piece. "Visual environment" in which BA were realized were identical; P and C pieces were identical in form and visual characteristics. Records were made of unit activity (201 cells), animal's movements (photoelectric method), EMG of the m. masseter; in parallel videorecords of behaviour were carried out. BA of P and C pieces grasping were identical in electromyo- and actographic characteristics; motor composition of these BA did not differ. 61 neurones were activated in both BA, 5--only in BA of P piece grasping, 22--only in BA of C piece grasping, i. e. 30% of neurones were activated only in one of the compared BA. Characteristics of activations, appearing in both acts could be significantly different: different frequency, connection with different stages of the compared BA. The obtained data are determined by changes of the motor and receptive fields of neurones in one BA in comparison to another, and are considered as an evidence supporting the suggestion that appearance of cortical neurones' activations in behaviour depends on BA goal and is not strictly determined by the parameters of movements and environment.
Orientation invariance of shape recognition in forebrain-lesioned pigeons.	Pigeons were trained to perform a visual orientation invariance task consisting of shape matching-to-sample or oddity-from-sample discriminations where the comparison forms differed in orientation from the sample forms, and the odd comparison forms were always a mirror image of the sample. They then received lesions affecting the visual projection area within the anterior hyperstriatum or the dorsal neostriatum, a control area with no known visual function. Both groups of birds evinced minor transient postoperative deficits of similar magnitude during the shape recognition task under orientation invariance conditions when the habitual training forms were used. When novel forms were introduced, the performance of hyperstriatal pigeons was significantly worse than that of the neostriatal pigeons, but still well above chance. The introduction of a delay between the offset of the sample and the onset of the habitual comparison stimuli did not yield any differential effect. It is concluded that orientation invariance of pattern recognition performance of birds, in contrast to that in mammals, is probably a midbrain, optic tectum function.
Characteristics of neuronal systems in the visual cortex.	The coupling complexity of cortical areas makes it very difficult to analyse them experimentally. Studies of model systems provide the possibility of adapting the analysis to the available data base and elaborating the fundamental properties that depend on the structure of the system. We propose a model system of variable complexity that is spatially two-dimensional and time-dependent, uses feedback for iteration and smoothing, includes the mapping of the cortical networks and can be nonlinear as the case requires. Combining such elementary systems on the basis of neuroanatomical findings enables us to simulate cortical mappings and to interpret neurophysiological data. The decisive factor is that the dynamics of the system and the neuroanatomically based spatial coupling are closely connected with each other.
A neuronal subsystem in the cat's area 18 lacks retinotopy.	Single neurones were recorded extracellularly in the visual cortex of anaesthetized and paralyzed cats. In all parts of area 18, neurones with diffuse receptive fields (DRFs) were found. DRFs measured at least 50 degrees in diameter and always included the area centralis and large parts of the ipsi- and contralateral hemifeld; some DRFs even covered the entire visual field. DRF neurones gave phasic responses to diffuse light, and to light spots either presented stationary or moved rapidly across the field; they were not orientation- or direction-sensitive. In contrast to the majority of area 18 neurones, which are part of a retinotopically organized system, DRF neurones constitute a subsystem with only poor retinotopy, or no retinotopy at all. This system might be suitable for detecting sudden changes in global illumination.
Neuronal dynamics in the visual corticothalamic pathway revealed through binocular rivalry.	Single unit activity was recorded from principal cells in the A-laminae of the cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN). A steady state pattern of afferent activation was induced by presenting a continuously drifting square wave grating of constant spatial frequency to the eye (the dominant eye) that provided the excitatory input to the recorded cell. Intermittently, a second grating stimulus was presented to the other, nondominant, eye. In most neurones nondominant eye stimulation led to inhibition of relay cell responses. The latency of this suppressive effect was unusually long (up to 1 s) and its intensity and duration depended critically on the similarity between the gratings that were presented to the two eyes. Typically suppression was strongest when the gratings differed in orientation, direction of movement and contrast and when the nondominant eye stimulus was moving rather than stationary. Ablation of visual cortex abolished these long latency and feature-dependent interferences. We conclude that the visual cortex and the corticothalamic projections are involved in the mediation of these interocular interactions. We interpret our results as support for the hypothesis that corticothalamic feedback modifies thalamic transmission as a function of the congruency between ongoing cortical activation patterns and afferent retinal signals.
Electrophysiological evidence for interhemispheric connections in the anterior ectosylvian sulcus in the cat.	We report electrophysiological data regarding the contribution of the corpus callosum to visual responses in the cortex around the anterior ectosylvian sulcus (AES). The experiments were performed in cats in which the optic input from each eye was surgically restricted to the ipsilateral hemisphere (split-chiasm cats), and where neuronal responses to stimulation of the contralateral eye were mediated by interhemispheric connections. A very high proportion of cells were driven by stimuli presented to either eye indicating that they were activated not only through an intrahemispheric pathway from the ipsilateral eye, but also through an interhemispheric pathway from the contralateral eye. With few exceptions, both receptive fields (RFs) of each binocular neuron abutted or were in the vicinity of the vertical meridian. All neurons responded well to moving stimuli and most of them showed directional selectivity. A few cells were activated by stimuli moving in depth. Following an additional section of the posterior half of the corpus callosum, cells in AES responded only to stimulation of the ipsilateral eye, demonstrating thus that the input from the contralateral eye was conveyed by this part of the corpus callosum. By contrast following a section of the anterior half of the corpus callosum, all visually responsive AES neurons were binocularly activated. These results suggest that the interhemispheric visual input to this ectosylvian region is conveyed via a polysynaptic loop involving visual cortical areas that are connected through the posterior portion of the corpus callosum.
The effect of frontal eye field and superior colliculus lesions on saccadic latencies in the rhesus monkey.	Rhesus monkeys were trained to make saccadic eye movements to visual targets using detection and discrimination paradigms in which they were required to make a saccade either to a solitary stimulus (detection) or to that same stimulus when it appeared simultaneously with several other stimuli (discrimination). The detection paradigm yielded a bimodal distribution of saccadic latencies with the faster mode peaking around 100 ms (express saccades); the introduction of a pause between the termination of the fixation spot and the onset of the target (gap) increased the frequency of express saccades. The discrimination paradigm, on the other hand, yielded only a unimodal distribution of latencies even when a gap was introduced, and there was no evidence for short-latency "express" saccades. In three monkeys either the frontal eye field or the superior colliculus was ablated unilaterally. Frontal eye field ablation had no discernible long-term effects on the distribution of saccadic latencies in either the detection or discrimination tasks. After unilateral collicular ablation, on the other hand, express saccades obtained in the detection paradigm were eliminated for eye movements contralateral to the lesion, leaving only a unimodal distribution of latencies. This deficit persisted throughout testing, which in one monkey continued for 9 mo. Express saccades were not observed again for saccades contralateral to the lesion, and the mean latency of the contralateral saccades was longer than the mean latency of the second peak for the ipsiversive saccades. The latency distribution of saccades ipsiversive to the collicular lesion was unaffected except for a few days after surgery, during which time an increase in the proportion of express saccades was evident. Saccades obtained with the discrimination paradigm yielded a small but reliable increase in saccadic latencies following collicular lesions, without altering the shape of the distribution. Unilateral muscimol injections into the superior colliculus produced results similar to those obtained immediately after collicular lesions: saccades contralateral to the injection site were strongly inhibited and showed increased saccadic latencies. This was accompanied by a decrease of ipsilateral saccadic latencies and an increase in the number of saccades falling into the express range. The results suggest that the superior colliculus is essential for the generation of short-latency (express) saccades and that the frontal eye fields do not play a significant role in shaping the distribution of saccadic latencies in the paradigms used in this study.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Corticogeniculate neurons, corticotectal neurons, and suspected interneurons in visual cortex of awake rabbits: receptive-field properties, axonal properties, and effects of EEG arousal.	The intrinsic stability of the rabbit eye was exploited to enable receptive-field analysis of antidromically identified corticotectal (CT) neurons (n = 101) and corticogeniculate (CG) neurons (n = 124) in visual area I of awake rabbits. Eye position was monitored to within 1/5 degrees. We also studied the receptive-field properties of neurons synaptically activated via electrical stimulation of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGNd). Whereas most CT neurons had either complex (59%) or motion/uniform (15%) receptive fields, we also found CT neurons with simple (9%) and concentric (4%) receptive fields. Most complex CT cells were broadly tuned to both stimulus orientation and velocity, but only 41% of these cells were directionally selective. We could elicit no visual responses from 6% of CT cells, and these cells had significantly lower conduction velocities than visually responsive CT cells. The median spontaneous firing rates for all classes of CT neurons were 4-8 spikes/s. CG neurons had primarily simple (60%) and concentric (9%) receptive fields, and none of these cells had complex receptive fields. CG simple cells were more narrowly tuned to both stimulus orientation and velocity than were complex CT cells, and most (85%) were directionally selective. Axonal conduction velocities of CG neurons (mean = 1.2 m/s) were much lower than those of CT neurons (mean = 6.4 m/s), and CG neurons that were visually unresponsive (23%) had lower axonal conduction velocities than did visually responsive CG neurons. Some visually unresponsive CG neurons (14%) responded with saccadic eye movements. The median spontaneous firing rates for all classes of CG neurons were less than 1 spike/s. All neurons synaptically activated via LGNd stimulation at latencies of less than 2.0 ms had receptive fields that were not orientation selective (89% motion/uniform, 11% concentric), whereas most cells with orientation-selective receptive fields had considerably longer synaptic latencies. Most short-latency motion/uniform neurons responded to electrical stimulation of the LGNd (and visual area II) with a high-frequency burst (500-900 Hz) of three or more spikes. Action potentials of these neurons were of short duration, thresholds of synaptic activation were low, and spontaneous firing rates were the highest seen in rabbit visual cortex. These properties are similar to those reported for interneurons in several regions in mammalian central nervous system. Nonvisual sensory stimuli that resulted in electroencephalographic arousal (hippocampal theta activity) had a profound effect on the visual responses of many visual cortical neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Post-natal development of the retinal and cerebellar projections onto the lateral suprasylvian area in the cat.	1. Post-natal development of the retinal and cerebellar projections onto the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian visual area was examined by using the field potential method and, additionally, by the orthograde horseradish peroxidase method. 2. Optic nerve stimulation elicited a surface-positive, depth-negative field potential in the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian area of adult cats. By contrast, in kittens younger than 3 weeks old, a surface-negative, depth-positive field potential was evoked. The response grew adult-like by 1 month of age. Corticocortical response, activated by stimulation of cortical areas 17 and 18, underwent a similar developmental change. 3. Cerebellar stimulation evoked a surface-negative, depth-positive wave from birth up to adulthood. Thalamocortical afferents from the ventroanterior and ventrolateral nuclei of the thalamus to the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian area, which is presumed to be responsible for this cerebellar response, terminate mostly in layer I in both new-born kittens and adult cats. 4. The present results, and our previous morphological findings on the projections from the extrageniculate visual thalamus and visual cortical areas 17 and 18 onto the medial bank of the lateral suprasylvian area, were correlated with reference to the maturation of the neuronal circuit in the cortex.
Interhemispheric transfer of visual information in humans: spatial characteristics.	1. The problem of the interhemispheric transfer of visual information in humans has been approached psychophysically, making use of a visual discrimination task that shows a clear left field advantage and is subject to the phenomenon of perceptual learning. 2. For this task (discrimination of complex gratings differing only by the relative spatial phase of their harmonic components) there is a left field advantage and a lack of interhemispheric transfer of learning effects at all spatial frequencies tested for stimuli removed at least 5 deg from either side of the vertical meridian. 3. For stimuli close to the vertical meridian, the left field advantage disappears and there is a complete transfer of learning effects, provided the fundamental spatial frequency is 2 cycles/deg or lower. 4. At higher spatial frequencies the left field advantage is maintained and the learning effects do not transfer from one visual hemifield to the other, even at +/- 0.5 deg from the vertical meridian, unless the contrast is very high. 5. The transfer of learning effects obtained for spatial frequencies of 2 cycles/deg or lower is peculiar to regions placed close to the vertical meridian and symmetrically located on either side of it. No transfer is obtained between non-overlapping regions on the same side of the vertical meridian. 6. These findings are consistent with an interhemispheric transfer of visual information, preferential for low spatial frequencies and high contrasts, in agreement with that found for callosal transfer in the cat (Berardi, Bisti & Maffei, 1987).
The velocity dependence of direction selectivity of visual cortical neurones in the cat.	1. The range of velocities, yielding direction-selective responses, was investigated in a total of 167 direction-selective cells from areas 17 and 18 of the cat, using a high-contrast light bar moving at velocities ranging from 0.6 to 900 deg s-1. 2. 11% of the cells were direction selective over the full range of velocities tested. Most cells (66%) gave only responses at low velocities and thus were not direction selective at high velocities. The remaining cells gave responses over a broad range of velocities but the direction selectivity was limited to either high or intermediate velocities (18 and 5% of the cells, respectively). Cells with direction selectivity at high but not at low velocities had large receptive fields with non-overlapping 'on' and 'off' subregions and they responded quickly and phasically to stationary flashes. This suggests that the latter cells relied on fast and brief interactions over large distances. 3. In thirty cells the spatial and temporal limits of direction selectivity were investigated using a stroboscopically illuminated moving light bar. In all cells direction selectivity depended both on the interflash distance and the interflash time interval. Area 17 cells with large receptive field at high eccentricity tolerated much larger interflash spacings than area 17 cells with small receptive fields near the area centralis. For eleven of the thirty cells the effective interflash distance could be larger than the width of the receptive field. The largest effective interflash time interval varied between 35 and 250 ms. 4. Eight of the thirty cells were direction selective at high but not at low velocities. These eight cells all remained direction selective over large interflash distances and they required brief interflash intervals (less than or equal to 65 ms). 5. Responses to single stroboscopic flashes within the sequence were observed in ten cells, which all responded well at high apparent velocities. While most cells (eight out of ten) showed both response increments in the preferred direction and response decrements in the non-preferred, the decrements constituted the dominant element in the direction selectivity of six out of ten cells while the remaining four cells relied mainly on response increments. 6. It is concluded that the range of direction-selective velocities of some cat visual cortical cells can be predicted from a knowledge of the spatial extent and the time course of the direction-selective interactions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The responses of neurons in the cortex in the superior temporal sulcus of the monkey to band-pass spatial frequency filtered faces.	There are neurons in the cortex in the anterior part of the superior temporal sulcus of the macaque monkey with visual responses which would be useful for face recognition (Rolls, 1984; Baylis et al., 1985). To analyze further the information which leads them to respond, their responses were measured to parametrically filtered stimuli. The responses of 48 such single neurons were measured to faces which were digitized and were bandpass spatial frequency filtered. The octave width bands were 2-4, 4-8, 8-16, 16-32, 32-64 and 64-128 cycles per image. It was found that the neurons could respond well to single octaves of the spatial frequencies normally present in faces, that the most effective bands were 4-8, 8-16 and 16-32 cycles per face (cpf), and that the bands 2-4 and 32-64 cpf were partly effective. In investigations of whether the responses of the neurons to an unfiltered face, and to low-pass and high-pass filtered images could be predicted by linear addition of their responses to each of the octave bands shown separately, it was found that the majority of the neurons were non-linear, and responded much less than predicted. It was also shown that this occurred even when the contrast was reduced to 0.25 of that normally present in a face, so that the result was not due just to a ceiling effect of the maximum firing rate. These results help to define parametrically the aspects of the information normally present in a face which are sufficient to produce responses of these neurons to them, and show that linear operations cannot account for information processing in this part of the visual system.
Visual receptive field properties in the posterior suprasylvian cortex of the cat: a comparison between the areas PMLS and PLLS.	Receptive field (RF) properties of single units were examined in two visual areas in the cat's postero-medial and postero-lateral suprasylvian cortex (PMLS/PLLS). Electrophysiological recordings were made in the paralyzed and anesthetized preparation in corresponding regions of the medial and lateral banks of the lateral suprasylvian sulcus (LS). In both areas, cell samples were obtained from within the same range of A/P co-ordinates. In both samples, cells responded best to moving stimuli, had large RF's, and did not differ with respect to the distributions of their ocular dominance. Binocularity was equally high, but units in PLLS showed significantly less binocular summation. Cells in both areas preferred high velocities, and a high percentage was direction selective, with directions up and away from the vertical meridian being most common. While in PMLS the preferred direction of a unit usually could be classified into a "radial" vs a "circular" category when RF position was taken into account, this was not possible in PLLS. Units in PLLS also had significantly higher spontaneous activity, higher optimal velocity, and larger RF sizes. In PLLS the investigation of background-foreground interactions revealed a large variety of phase-dependent responses. This is in contrast to the clear preponderance of in-phase inhibition and antiphase facilitation effects in PMLS. The results indicate important differences of RF properties for the two areas, but do not yet suggest a clear functional differentiation. These differences reflect in some respects the RF properties of cells in the structures that provide the main afferents to the two areas.
A central binocular mechanism affects chromatic adaptation.	Two experiments explored the role of central binocular mechanisms in color perception. The first experiment examined the effect of adapting to simultaneous, binocularly fused fields. Each eye adapted to a slowly flickering (0.5 Hz) long-wavelength light. The two eyes were adapted either inphase (both eyes stimulated at the same moment) or out-of-phase (only one eye stimulated at any given moment). Both adapting procedures shifted equilibrium yellow toward longer wavelengths, but a significantly greater shift was found when adapting light stimulated both eyes simultaneously. This reveals that a central binocular mechanism affects chromatic adaptation. The second experiment tested whether the binocular mechanism could shift equilibrium yellow measurements made with both eyes (identical, binocularly fused fields presented to each eye) outside of the range of measurements established by left-eye monocular viewing and right-eye monocular viewing. Differences were found between monocular left-eye and monocular right-eye color appearance under conditions of moderate chromatic adaptation, but binocularly fused measurements fell within the range established by the monocular results. This is consistent with the view that central mechanisms serve to keep the two eyes in balance, rather than systematically alter color appearance from colors perceived under monocular viewing.
Influence of saccades on manual reactions--a reaction time and VEP study.	Experiments were performed to investigate the retardation of motor reactions, triggered immediately after saccadic eye movements, by comparing VEP latencies and manual reaction times. As visual stimuli grating patterns of different spatial frequencies were used. They were presented during continuous fixation ("resting eye" condition) as well as shortly after a saccade ("saccadic" condition) with different onset delays (25, 50, 100, 150 msec), in order to determine the influence of saccades on VEP latencies and on manual reaction times. Compared with the reaction times in the "resting eye" condition, the postsaccadic reaction times were much prolonged whereas the respective VEP latencies are almost unchanged. Thus an inhibitory interaction of different motor responses (i.e. saccadic eye movements and manual reactions in this study) at higher levels of the afferent system or at the motor control site is postulated. This result has been confirmed for stimuli of different spatial frequencies.
The duplex character of the corticofugal pathway from the striate cortex to the lateral geniculate complex of the cat.	From studies on signal conduction times in the corticofugal pathway from the striate cortex of the cat it has been proposed that S cells project to the LGN and C cells to the PGN. This concept has not received support from the histological examination of axons projecting to the two nuclei. The physiological experiments pointed to a clear segregation not apparent in the distribution of axonal diameters. A larger sample of signal conduction times, collected in the present study, is more consistent with the findings on the morphology of the pathway.
The topography of scalp potentials evoked by pattern pulse stimuli.	Pattern pulse stimuli evoke activity in two distinct regions of the human visual cortex in temporal sequence. The earlier responding region (implicit time 93 msec) is localized to a relatively small region near Oz. Its topography is very sensitive to the position of the evoking stimulus in the visual field; it is dominated by a representation of the visual field near the vertical meridian. The later responding cortical region (implicit time 131 msec) is larger than the earlier one. Its medial border touches the lateral border of the earlier responding cortical region and it extends several cm laterally. Its topography is much less sensitive to the position of the evoking stimulus in the visual field. Stimuli presented to the ipsilateral field evoke either weak or no measurable activity in the earlier responding cortical region but often evoke measurable activity near the lateral boundary of the later responding cortical region. These results suggest that the earlier responding cortical region is striate cortex and that the later responding cortical region is composed of visual areas V2, V3, V3A, and V4.
The role of striate cortex in the guidance of eye movements in the monkey.	We studied the effect of unilateral striate cortical ablations on smooth pursuit and saccadic eye movements in the monkey. The monkeys made quite accurate saccades to stationary stimuli in the field contralateral to the lesion, and they readily pursued foveal targets moving in all directions. However, when visual stimuli were stepped into the field contralateral to the lesion and then began to move, thus insuring that the moving stimulus was confined to the impaired visual hemifield, several oculomotor abnormalities emerged. Saccades to moving stimuli presented in the impaired field consistently undershot targets that moved away from the central fixation point after the step, and overshot targets that moved back towards the central fixation point. There was little or no smooth pursuit eye velocity generated in any direction to moving stimuli in the impaired field, and the monkeys could not generate smooth pursuit to stimuli maintained a few degrees from the fovea in the impaired field, although they were able to pursue such stimuli held in the normal field. Ablation of striate cortex also affected the latencies of saccades. When step-ramp stimuli were presented in the normal field, the monkeys delayed the initiation of saccades to targets moving towards the central fixation point, and hastened the initiation of saccades to targets moving away from the central fixation point. By contrast, changes in the direction of target movement did not affect the latencies of saccades into the impaired field. The deficits seemed permanent, lasting as long as the monkeys were tested--over 2 years in one case--but they were not total. Each monkey could use stimuli moving into the affected field to develop some eye velocity, although this residual ability had a much longer latency and lower gain than that provided by the intact visual system. These results show that striate cortex is intimately involved in the estimation of stimulus velocity critical to the genesis of smooth pursuit and saccadic eye movements.
Corticofugal feedback influences the generation of length tuning in the visual pathway.	In the feline visual system, neurons exhibiting sensitivity to the length of a moving contour were first observed in the cortex and described as 'hypercomplex cells'. In these cells an increase in stimulus length beyond an optimal value leads to a rapid decline in response. This decline has been attributed to an intracortical inhibitory input which may be driven by layer VI cells with very long receptive fields. It is now clear, however, that cells in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN), exhibit a degree of length tuning similar to that of cortical 'hypercomplex cells', suggesting that this response property could be generated subcortically. Alternatively, as the dLGN receives a massive corticofugal projection from layer VI cells in the visual cortex, it is possible that this input has a function in generating length tuning in the dLGN. We have investigated this issue by comparing the length tuning of dLGN cells with and without corticofugal feedback. The data show that corticofugal feedback makes a highly significant contribution to the length tuning of dLGN cells. This raises the possibility that length tuning is an emergent property of the geniculo-cortical loop.
Simulation of spaceflight with whole-body head-down tilt: influence on intraocular pressure and retinocortical processing.	Cephalad fluid shifts occur in the microgravity environment of spaceflight. Whole-body head-down tilt was used to simulate the influence of these fluid shifts upon intraocular pressure (IOP) and the bioelectrical activity of neural elements in the retinocortical pathway. Noninvasive techniques were used to monitor IOP, pattern reversal electroretinograms (prERGs), and pattern reversal visual evoked cortical potentials (prVEPs) when subjects were oriented either upright or in a head-down position (6 degrees or 90 degrees). The results indicate that there is a significant elevation in IOP when an individual is oriented in a head-down position. Significant alterations of neurophysiological processing in the retinocortical pathway also occur when individuals are oriented in a head-down position.
Electrophysiological study of synaptic connections between a transplanted lateral geniculate nucleus and the visual cortex of the host rat.	The lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of a fetal rat was transplanted to the visual cortex (VC) of a neonatal rat. A current source-density analysis of field potentials and an intracellular study of neuronal responses were conducted in slice preparations by electrical stimulation of transplanted LGN and host VC. The results indicated that synaptic connections were established reciprocally between the transplanted LGN and the host VC.
Spatial patterns of visual cortical fast EEG during conditioned reflex in a rhesus monkey.	A preliminary assay was made of the existence of time-space coherence patterns of fast EEG activity in the visual cortex of a Rhesus monkey. The primary intent of the present study was to evaluate the similarities and differences in relation to the olfactory bulb, where such coherences have been described and have been demonstrated to be associated with behaviour. Segments 1.5 s in duration were recorded simultaneously without averaging from 16 to 35 subdural electrodes fixed over the left occipital lobe in an array 3.6 cm X 2.8 cm. Each segment was taken during the delivery of a visual conditioned stimulus (CS) and the performance of a conditioned response (CR) by a well-trained Rhesus monkey. The EEGs appeared chaotic with irregular bursts lasting 75-200 ms, resembling those in the olfactory EEG but with lower peak frequencies. Fourier spectra showed broad distributions of power resembling '1/f noise' with multiple peaks in the range of 20-40 Hz. Time intervals were selected where coherent activity seemed to be present at a number of electrodes. A dominant component waveform that was common to all channels was extracted by principal components analysis (PCA) of each segment. The distribution of the power of this component across the electrodes (the factor loadings) was used to describe the spatial pattern of the coherent cortical activity. Statistical analyses suggested that different patterns could be associated to the CS and the CR, as has been found in the olfactory system. These patterns remained stable over a 6 week recording interval. The patterns can be better discriminated, when the factor loadings of each channel are normalized to zero mean and unit variance, to discard a basic pattern of power distribution, which may reflect anatomical and electrode positioning factors that are related to behavioral information processing by the cortex. The wide spatial distribution of the common patterns found suggests that EEG patterns that manifest differing states of the visual cortex may also be accessible with scalp electrodes.
The period of susceptibility of visual cortical binocularity to unilateral proprioceptive deafferentation of extraocular muscles.	1. The electrophysiological effects of section of extraocular muscle proprioceptive afferents have been investigated in kitten area 17. Extraocular proprioceptive afferents were interrupted by cutting the ophthalmic branch of the fifth trigeminal nerve (V1 nerve) unilaterally in 15 normally reared kittens (NR) between 3 and 12 wk postnatal, in 3 NR adult cats, and in 7 dark-reared (DR) kittens at 6 wk postnatal. Bilateral sections of the V1 nerve were performed in two kittens at 6 wk postnatal. NR kittens were maintained in a normal environment after the section. DR kittens were returned to the darkroom until the recording session. Receptive-field properties of area 17 neurons were studied after a postsurgical delay of 4-7 wk in most NR kittens and of 4 days to 5 wk in DR kittens. In one NR kitten and in the operated adult cats, the delay was 1-2.5 yr. This study is based on a total sample of 1,190 visual cortical units. 2. When performed in NR kittens between 4 and 8 wk of age, the unilateral section of extraocular proprioceptive afferents significantly reduced the proportion of binocular cells: 1 mo after the section of the V1 nerve, half of the visual cortical cells were monocularly activated. A similar reduction in the proportion of binocular cells was also observed in DR kittens operated at 6 wk of age and then maintained in the dark for 5-7 wk. In contrast to the unilateral section, the bilateral section of the V1 nerve performed in 6-wk-old NR kittens did not disrupt cortical binocularity. 3. In 10 of the 22 kittens that had undergone unilateral sections, there was a strong asymmetry in the ocular dominance distribution in favor of one eye. This asymmetry was not related to the side of the section and was the same in both hemispheres for a given kitten. 4. The postsurgical delay played an important role in the appearance of the cortical deficit: binocularity loss was not found within the week following the section but was present 1 mo after the section. This functional impairment appeared to be permanent, since it was still observed 2.5 yr after the section. 5. Cortical cells were classified in two ways on the basis of their receptive-field organization: 1) into S- or C-types (38, 73), and 2) into small area slow (SAS), large area slow (LAS), or Fast (F)-types (42, 57).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Effects of occipital lobectomy upon eye movements in primate.	1. Eye movements were recorded before and after bilateral occipital lobectomy in six rhesus monkeys trained to fixate and to follow small targets. Striate cortex was completely removed in two animals; small islands islands remained in the others. In all animals portions of extrastriate cortex were also removed but the medial superior temporal area in the superior temporal sulcus was largely spared. Optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) was markedly altered but not abolished in all animals. The immediate pursuit component of OKN was eliminated leading to a poor response to stimuli comprised of high frequencies. The velocity-storage component of OKN was present, but the maximum value of OKN that could be achieved was decreased to 6 and 16 degrees/s in the two most severely affected animals (preop, 65-116 degrees/s). The residual OKN was similar to that of afoveate animals with a diminished response to high velocities of retinal-image motion and a temporal to nasal predominance during monocular viewing. 2. In the initial postoperative period all animals appeared completely blind. Within 1-6 mo, however, they regained an ability to make visually guided saccades to, and smooth pursuit of, small targets. Saccades were nearly as accurate as preoperatively, but saccade amplitudes were more variable and saccade latencies increased. In the two animals with a complete removal of striate cortex, gains (eye velocity/target velocity) of smooth pursuit during sinusoidal tracking (60 degrees/s, 0.5 Hz) were 0.9 and 0.95. During tracking of step-ramp (Rashbass) stimuli with 60 degrees/s ramps, the average acceleration of the eyes during the first 120 ms of smooth pursuit was 189-278 degrees.s-1.s-1 (preop range, 154-418 degrees.s-1.s-1). In other respects, though, smooth pursuit was not normal. Latencies were increased two- to threefold, and tracking was more variable. 3. Paradoxically, as visually guided saccades and pursuit recovered, some other ocular motor functions deteriorated. Spontaneous and gaze-evoked nystagmus developed 3-6 mo after occipital lobectomy; the time constant of the neural eye-position integrator dropped to values as low as 2.6-4.8 s. The maximum slow-phase velocity of OKN also decreased. 4. The findings immediately after occipital lobectomy indicate that in normal primates occipital cortex is necessary for visually guided saccades and smooth pursuit as well as for the immediate component of OKN. Occipital cortex also makes the predominant contribution toward the generation of the velocity-storage component of OKN.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Stimulus selectivity and functional organization in the lateral suprasylvian visual cortex of the cat.	1. We have examined the responses of cells in the postero-medial and postero-lateral lateral suprasylvian areas (p.m.l.s./p.l.l.s.) in the medial and lateral banks of the middle suprasylvian sulcus of the anaesthetized, paralysed cat. 2. Visual responses were assessed qualitatively (for projected spot and bar stimuli) and quantitatively (for drifting, high-contrast gratings of optimum spatial and temporal frequencies, but varying in orientation and direction of drift). There was excellent agreement between qualitative and quantitative estimates of preferred direction of motion. 3. Comparison of responses to motion in the preferred direction and the opposite direction confirmed that the percentage of units with strong directional preference is higher in this region of cortex than in other cortical and subcortical visual structures so far investigated. 4. Cells were comparatively well 'tuned' for the direction of motion of a grating: on average the half-width at half-amplitude for the variation in response around the principal preferred direction was 23.2 deg for p.m.l.s. and 25.3 deg for p.l.l.s., thus falling within the range found for complex cells in area 17. In this and other aspects of their direction selectivity, neurones in p.m.l.s. and p.l.l.s. were very similar to each other. 5. Quantitative analysis of the direction-response functions revealed them frequently to be more complex than previously described. For many cells there were subsidiary response peaks in addition to the main peak at the principal preferred direction. Often there was an accessory peak 180 deg from the optimum direction (i.e. directional preference was incomplete), but there was also a clear tendency for responses to be specifically elevated for directions orthogonal to the principal direction. 6. Tests with stationary, contrast-modulated gratings of the optimum spatial frequency, but differing in orientation, revealed that neurones responsive to such stimuli (though limited to about half the population) were orientation selective, their preferred orientations for stationary and drifting gratings being very similar. 7. The functional architecture of the lateral suprasylvian cortex was studied by means of single and multiple penetrations at different angles to the cortical surface: in most penetrations in p.m.l.s. the preferred directions of cells tended to shift progressively in small steps across the cortex, at a maximum rate of about 360 deg mm-1. However, there were occasional 180 deg differences between neighbouring recording sites or between cells recorded at different depths within a single radial column.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Visual representation at the cerebral cortex: qualitative and quantitative aspects.	The cerebral representation of peripheral sensory surfaces is strictly ordered. In the case of the visual system, the scale of the cortical representation of visual space is non-linear: the area devoted to the fovea is greatly enlarged. Attempts have been made to quantify this retino-cortical relationship in animals and man: the result is the cortical magnification factor (M) which indicates the linear distance in mm along the striate cortex concerned with each degree of the visual field. The cortical magnification factor has indicated an alternative approach both to the theoretical interpretation of visual processing and to the clinical aspects of visual field examination. By M-scaling vision test stimuli, visual sensitivity, while quantitatively different at foveal and peripheral projections, remains qualitatively similar across the entire field.
Increased regularity of activity of cortical neurons in learning due to disinhibitory effect of reinforcement.	This paper reviews the author's studies on neurophysiologic mechanisms of conditioned reflex learning. Electroencephalograms, evoked potentials, activity of neocortical and hippocampal neurons and the rabbits' behavior in the course of elaboration of defensive and inhibitory conditioned reflexes to light flashes have been recorded. Electric shock (ECS) applied to the paw served as reinforcement. The study demonstrated three types of reinforcement effect on the activity of cortical neurons: activating, disinhibitory, and inhibitory. EEG activation due to reinforcement is accompanied by a change in phasic cortical neuronal activity from chaotic or irregular, typical of rest or inhibition, to regular tonic discharges (in neocortex and hippocampus) and group discharges in the stress rhythm, 5-7 Hz in the hippocampus. Following a number of conditioning trials, the effect of reinforcement is simulated by the effect of a conditioned stimulus. With EEG activation and increased regularity in impulses, facilitation of motor reactions is observed.
Monocular deprivation in kittens differently affects crossed and uncrossed visual pathways.	The effects of monocular deprivation (MD) on the crossed and uncrossed visual projections were studied using both electrophysiological and behavioural criteria. Our results show that Visual Evoked Potentials (VEPs) from the deprived eye (DE) in response to contrast reversing gratings are more reduced in the ipsilateral than in the contralateral cortex. This suggests a different sensitivity of the crossed and uncrossed visual pathways to MD. In the behavioural experiments comparable findings were obtained.
Temporal organization of interneuronal relations in the cerebral cortex of the cat in relation to the level of alimentary motivation]	By means of records of multicellular activity, interneuronal relations and their modifications in two cortical zones (Visual and motor) were studied in cats at different levels of alimentary motivation. For quantitative evaluation of interneuronal relations the statistic method of cross-correlation analysis of impulse trains was used in determining the probability of the appearance of the discharge of one neurone after the impulse of the other one. For groups of neurones in both investigated cortical areas, three-neurones microsystems were singled out and their activity was analyzed by temporal parameters of interaction between neurones at the interval of 120 ms, both within one microarea (intraanalyzer connections) and between microareas of two cortical zones. The correlation of temporal parameters of interneuronal connections (temporal delays in the activity of neuronal pairs) changed depending on spatial localization of neurones and functional condition of the animals. The existence is suggested of "informational" (1-30 ms) and "motivational" (90-120 ms) values of interneuronal relations for interanalyser connections.
Spectral-correlation characteristics of the electrical activity of the brain of the rabbit in a state of calm wakefulness]	Inter- and intrahemispheric relations of electrical activity of the pre-motor, sensorimotor (representation of forelimb and blinking) and visual zones of rabbit's cerebral cortex in calm alertness was studied by method of spectral-correlative analysis. Mean coherence levels of the EEG of tested hemispheric symmetric points and symmetric pairs of leads in the left and right hemispheres were characterized by a high temporal stability in the state of calm alertness and during sensory stimulation. A comparison of mean coherence values of EEG in symmetric leads, revealed a tendency to left-side dominance of statistical bonds of electrical processes. A tendency was shown towards interhemispheric asymmetry by mean parameters of EEG power spectra: the left hemisphere of the rabbit is characterized by a lower mean frequency of electrical activity and a more narrow effective frequency of the spectrum.
Modulation of visual excitability cycles in some brain structures by high-frequency stimulation of raphe dorsal nucleus in cats.	The effect of high-frequency electrical stimulation of the raphe dorsal nucleus on the excitability cycles of the visual evoked potentials was studied. The evoked potentials to flash stimuli were recorded simultaneously in the lateral geniculate nucleus, centrum medianum, mesencephalic reticular formation, visual and associative parietal cortical areas. During stimulation of the raphe dorsal nucleus a facilitation of the visual excitability cycles in all structures studied occurred as compared to the cycles obtained before the stimulation. The analysis of the excitability cycles of the main two or three components of the visual evoked potentials revealed that the nonspecific structures were likely more involved in this activating effect than the specific ones. The data suggest that the raphe dorsal nucleus is involved in the modulation of the excitability of the visual afferent pathway and that this modulation after high-frequency stimulation of the nucleus is probably related to the increased excitability level in the nonspecific brain structures.
Visual cortex controls retinal output in the rat.	The first objective of the present investigation was to shed more light on corticofugal influences on the retina by providing an analysis of the type and proportion of retinal ganglion cells that are affected by cooling the visual cortex in rats. The second question was to determine if the pretectum participates in functional cortico-retinal relationships. In urethane-anesthetized and paralyzed hooded rats, axonal activity of retinal ganglion cells was recorded with glass micropipettes at optic chiasm level. Units were classified as ON, OFF, suppressed-by-light and concentric. The visual cortex was inactivated by cooling its surface with a 4 mm2 steel probe using the Peltier effect. The pretectum was blocked with microinjections of 50 to 100 nanoliters of cobalt ions, lidocaine hydrochloride or KCl. The inactivations and recoveries at both sites were monitored by simultaneously recording evoked field potentials. Interrupting corticofugal impulses caused modifications of the evoked discharge pattern in all types of cells. The concentric type was the group least affected by cortical cooling. A common trend emerged suggesting that cooling of the visual cortex led to an enhancement of the initial evoked excitation. This was often followed by an enhanced post-excitatory inhibition. The Pearson coefficient allowed us to measure the degree of similarity between two histograms. When all data were pooled, a weak correlation between control and test histograms (r = 0.29, N = 56) was found, while the control and recovery patterns averaged a correlation of more than twice that size (r = 0.68). In a second series of experiments, the pretectum and visual cortex (VC) were simultaneously inactivated. It is shown that both sites summed their influence and acted synergistically upon the pattern of ganglion cell responses. The results strongly suggest that the visual cortex exerts a major control over the response pattern of thirty percent of retinal ganglion cells, and that the pretectum participates in the functional relationships between visual cortex and retina in rats.
Effect of contrast on spatial frequency tuning of neurones in area 17 of cat's visual cortex.	Previous investigations have revealed that perceived spatial frequency of gratings rises as contrast is lowered. In order to account for this finding it has been postulated that the spatial frequency which produces the maximum response from cortical neurones decreases with contrast. We have examined this hypothesis by determining optimal spatial frequency at 3-5 different contrast levels for 37 neurones in the cat striate cortex. For the complete sample no systematic changes in optimal spatial frequency was observed. However, a shift in the predicted direction was found for cells tuned to high spatial frequencies.
Binocular suppression in cortical neurons.	Dichoptic presentation of patterns similar in shape but of very different contrast results in the perception of only the high contrast pattern (binocular suppression). When recording from binocular neurons of the cat visual cortex, we have found an effect which is strikingly similar to this perceptual phenomenon. If a high and a low contrast grating are presented simultaneously, one to each eye, the cell's response to the low contrast stimulus is suppressed.
Cortical deafferentation in cat focal ischemia: disturbance and recovery of sensory functions in cortical areas with different degrees of cerebral blood flow reduction.	During and after 15-min occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) in cats, local CBF and neuronal activity were measured in cortical areas varying in the degree of CBF reduction. In an area within the ischemic center (primary auditory cortex, middle ectosylvian gyrus), CBF was severely suppressed. Click-induced auditory evoked potentials and evoked as well as spontaneous single-unit activity ceased within 1 min after occlusion. Recirculation resulted in a recovery of the different neurophysiological parameters with a time delay ranging from several minutes to 2 h. In two areas surrounding the ischemic focus (a visual area in the marginal gyrus and the forelimb representation area in the primary somatosensory cortex), CBF was reduced but remained above 30 ml/100 g/min during MCA occlusion. Visual flash-induced evoked potentials and somatosensory evoked potentials induced by median nerve electrical stimulation ceased in the corresponding areas with a somewhat slower time course as compared to the auditory responses and they recovered faster after recirculation. In another somatosensory area (hindlimb projection area in the primary somatosensory cortex), CBF stayed nearly at control levels during occlusion. Evoked potentials and single-unit activity induced by tibial nerve electrical stimulation decreased approximately 5 min after occlusion and were abolished approximately 5 min later. At that time, single-unit activity had changed to a nonresponsive pattern but persisted. However, potentials evoked transcallosally by electrical stimulation of the contralateral hemisphere were still recorded. After reopening the MCA, the recovery of neuronal functions was usually complete and occurred within approximately 5 min.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Velocity sensitivity and direction selectivity of neurons in areas V1 and V2 of the monkey: influence of eccentricity.	One hundred and forty two neurons in V1 and V2 were quantitatively tested using a multihistogram technique in paralyzed and anesthetized macaque monkeys. V1 neurons with receptive fields within 2 degrees from the fixation point (central V1 sample) and V1 neurons with eccentric receptive fields (15-25 degrees eccentricity, peripheral V1 sample) were compared to assess changes in velocity sensitivity and direction selectivity with eccentricity. The central V1 sample was compared with V2 neurons with receptive fields in the same part of the visual field (central V2 sample) to compare the involvement of both areas in the analysis of motion. Velocity sensitivity of V1 neurons shifts to faster velocities with increasing eccentricity. V1 and V2 neurons subserving central vision have similar preference for slow movements. All neurons could be classified into three categories according to their velocity-response curves: velocity low pass, velocity broad band, and velocity tuned. Most cells in parts of V1 and V2 subserving central vision are velocity low pass. As eccentricity increases in V1, velocity low-pass cells give way to velocity broad-band cells. There is a significant correlation between velocity upper cutoff and receptive field width among V1 neurons. The change in upper cutoff velocity with eccentricity depends both on temporal and spatial factors. Direction selectivity depends on stimulus velocity in most V1 cells. Neurons in the central V1 sample retain their direction selectivity at lower speeds than do neurons in the peripheral V1 sample. The proportion of direction-selective cells is low in both V1 and V2. In V1, direction selectivity decreases with eccentricity. In V1, both velocity upper cutoff and direction selectivity correlate more with laminar position than with receptive field type. The similarity between V1 of the monkey and area 17 of the cat, and the dissimilarity between V2 of the monkey and area 18 of the cat, are discussed.
Role of the cerebellum in the visual guidance of movement.	Mathematicians, control engineers and information technologists are beginning to take a greater interest in neuroscience. They are perhaps starting to realize that they may be able to learn a few tricks from nature with which to improve their machines. At the same time there is a good chance that neuroscientists will benefit from their input of fresh ideas and techniques with which to attack the problems of understanding neural processing. One area of the brain which seems particularly promising in these respects is the cerebellum.
Study of the cortical field potentials produced by weak light stimulation in adult rabbits]	On a chronic preparation of an adult Rabbit, the cortical visual evoked response, produced by a weak luminous stimulation activating only the scotopic system is characterized by the suppression of the early surface-positive phase and by a lengthening of the latencies of the following deflection. The profile of the fields of potential corresponding to the various defletions in relation to the depth, has been investigated.
The effect of mannitol infusion on retinal function and oxygen tension.	Mannitol administered intravenously in rhesus monkeys resulted in a temporary recovery of the visual evoked response (VER) after its decrease due to elevation of the intraocular pressure. Mannitol infusion caused an immediate, albeit transitory, increase in retinal oxygen tension. These changes were independent of the ocular hypotensive effect of mannitol, and we conclude that the drug is a far better agent for the treatment of acute glaucoma than heretofore believed.
Spectral and orientation specificity of single cells in foveal striate cortex of the vervet monkey, Cercopithecus aethiops.	1. The spectral sensitivity, orientation specificity and inhibitory surround of seventy-three cells were studied in the vervet monkey. The eye was in the dark or illuminated with steady white or spectral light. The cells were in the striate cortex corresponding to the foveal representation. Nearly all the cells gave on- or on/off-responses.2. More than a third of the cells (41%) responded over a narrow spectral band, in the blue, green, yellow or red section. Three quarters of them were orientation specific with flanking inhibitory surround and half of these were of the ;stopped-end' variety as well. The effect of the wave-length of the background indicated that only a half were activated by such excitatory-inhibitory colour pairs as have been described in the geniculate nucleus.3. A third of the cells (36%) responded to most colours but with the greatest response to green, yellow or red. Less than half were orientation specific. Unlike the narrowband cells, the response decreased with the intensity of the light. Two thirds were activated by the excitatory-inhibitory colour pairs that have been described in the geniculate nucleus.4. In both groups of cells the wave-length of the spectral peak could be different when the stimuli were weak compared with when they were strong.5. One quarter of the cells (23%) gave on/off-responses to all spectral flashes; half were not orientation specific. The difference in orientation specificity between narrow- and broadband cells is significant (P < 0.01).
Monocularly deprived cats: improvement of the deprived eye's vision by visual decortication.	Monocularly deprived cats were tested for visual perinetry before and after visual cortex lesions. Such a lesion greatly enhances the deprived eye's performance and impairs that of the nondeprived eye so that the pronounced preoperative interocular asymmetry is lost postoperatively. Apparently this destruction of abnormal corticotectal pathways allows the expression of previously suppressed, normal retinotectal pathways.
Responses to visual contours: spatio-temporal aspects of excitation in the receptive fields of simple striate neurones.	1. The properties of the receptive fields of simple cells in the cat striate cortex have been studied by preparing average response histograms both to moving slits of light of different width and to single light-dark edges or contours.2. The movement of a narrow (< 0.3 degrees ) slit across the receptive field gives rise to average response histograms that are either unimodal, bimodal or multimodal. A slit of light has leading (light) and trailing (dark) edges. By increasing the width of the slit it was shown that a discharge peak in the histogram coincides with the passage of one or other of the two edges over a particular region (discharge centre) in the receptive field. Each edge has its own discharge centre which is fired when the edge has the correct orientation and direction of movement.3. The discharge centres in forty-three simple cell receptive fields were located by using one or more of the following stimuli for each cell:(i) slits of different width;(ii) single light and dark edges;(iii) a wide (3 degrees ) slit moved over a range of different velocities. The same locations were obtained when all three procedures were used on the same cell.4. Most cells (79%) discharged to both edges though not necessarily in the same direction of movement. The majority (72%) fired in only one direction and most commonly (51%) the cells responded to both edges in this one direction. In only 16% of cells did both types of edge excite in both directions of movement. When the one type of edge, light or dark, was considered, 84% of the cells were direction selective and, for these cells, the other edge fired only in the same direction (51%), in both directions (7%), only in the opposite direction (5%) or not at all (21%).5. Cells responding in one direction with a unimodal average response histogram may be responding to both edges, the two responses being concealed in the one discharge peak. The two discharge centres are then either nearly coincident or, more usually, slightly offset with respect to one another. Most commonly the dark edge centre is slightly in advance of the light edge centre.6. The discharge peaks in the bimodal and multimodal types come from discharge centres that are spatially separate, each centre firing to only one type of edge. In the case of the bimodal type the light edge centre always lies ahead of the dark edge centre.7. When a cell responds to a single edge in both directions of movement, the type of contrast effective in one direction is always the reverse of that in the other. When the cell responded in both directions, whether to one or both edges, most commonly a light edge discharge centre in one direction occupied approximately the same location in space as the dark edge centre in the reverse direction and vice versa for the other edge.8. Temporal aspects of the discharge of simple cells have been examined by recording the responses to moving slits and single edges over a wide range of velocities.
Interaction effects of visual contours on the discharge frequency of simple striate neurones.	1. The discharge frequency of simple neurones in the cat striate cortex responding to the two edges of a slit of light moving over their receptive fields was studied as a function of slit width. While one edge of the slit was discharging the cell, the other edge had a modifying influence on that discharge either by way of facilitation or of inhibition.2. The most common form of the curve relating discharge frequency and slit width had a maximal discharge at narrow slit widths (< 0.5 degrees ) and relative inhibition at medium widths (between 0.5 degrees and 2 degrees ). At greater slit widths there was usually a region of facilitation before the effects of the two edges became independent of one another. Three other response patterns to slits of different width are described.3. The curve relating slit width and response amplitude for a particular cell provides an important clue to the various activity profiles for that cell. An activity profile plots the excitability of a cell along a line through the receptive field in the direction of stimulus movement. Each type of edge, light and dark, has its own set of activity profiles which differ depending upon stimulus parameters such as the direction of the movement of the edge.4. Two other methods were used to provide further data concerning the activity profiles and as a check on the evidence provided by the responses to slits of different width. One of these two methods used the test stimulus against the background of an artificially produced maintained discharge and the other involved the interaction of the two receptive fields of binocularly activated cells.5. A model is put forward to explain the receptive field organization of simple striate neurones which takes into account not only the main features of what is known concerning the synaptology of the visual cortex but also the new data provided by the present paper and the one which precedes it.
Harderian gland: development and influence of early hormonal treatment on porphyrin content.	The porphyrin content of the rat Harderian gland remains low until 12 days of age at which time both porphyrin content and concentration rapidly increase. Intraperitoneal administration of tetraiodothyronine (thyroxine) into newborn animals advances the appearance of porphyrin in the gland. Conversely, a single injection of cortisol acetate into newborns retards the appearance of porphyrin. The time of porphyrin appearance in the gland parallels the time for maturation of the evoked cortical response to visual stimulation in normal and hormone-treated animals.
Visual experience modifies distribution of horizontally and vertically oriented receptive fields in cats.	Cats were raised from birth with one eye viewing horizontal lines and one eye viewing vertical lines. Elongated receptive fields of cells in the visual cortex were horizontally or vertically oriented-no oblique fields were found. Units with horizontal fields were activated only by the eye exposed to horizontal lines; units with vertical fields only by the eye exposed to vertical lines.
The response properties of cells in the middle temporal area (area MT) of owl monkey visual cortex.	Recordings from 178 single cells in the middle temporal area (area MT) of owl monkey showed that most cells there are orientation- and direction-selective. They also revealed that a powerful range of binocular interactions occur in area MT, with 20% of the cells being responsive to binocular stimulation only, 5% to monocular stimulation only and about 50% of all cells showing some degree of interocular interaction.
Short latency visual evoked potentials in man.	Contrary to auditory and somatosensory evoked potentials, surface recorded visual evoked potentials which arise in subcortical neural elements have rarely been described. Considerable disagreement exists between the reports in the literature on such visual potentials. In this study, flash stimuli were used to evoke the potentials which were recorded from the skin overlying the infra-orbital ridge, outer canthus, middle of the forehead, vertex, mastoid ipsilateral to the stimulated eye and inion, using a non-cephalic reference. The potentials were amplified in a band which was chosen to omit slow retinal and cortical potentials, and to enhance activity which might include compound neural activity. Potentials were recorded from 9 subjects (13 eyes), and for each one the effects of eye position and stimulus intensity were studied. The results indicate that the series of components recorded within the first 100 msec following photic stimulation were volume-conducted activity generated by a subset of the visual system which is activated by luminosity changes. The generators of the first 4 or 5 components seem to be situated within the retina, the subsequent components seem to be generated in the optic nerve or tracts, and the later components may be thalamo-cortical in origin. These potentials may complement pattern evoked potentials in a more accurate definition of sites of lesions along the visual pathway.
Effects of monocular deprivation on geniculocortical pathways in the owl monkey, Aotus trivirgatus.	As has been shown for a number of other mammals, monocular eyelid suture in the newborn owl monkey, a New World primate, is followed by a failure of neurons in the deprived layers of the lateral geniculate nucleus to reach normal size in the adult animal. This failure appears to be almost completely confined to relay cells, identified by horseradish peroxidase (HRP) injections into cortex, rather than interneurons. Similar proportions of neurons in both the deprived and non-deprived layers are labeled after HRP injections, suggesting that relay cells do not lose all cortical connections as a result of visual deprivation.
Projections from the visual cortex to the contralateral claustrum of the cat revealed by an anterograde axonal transport method.	Contralateral projections from visual areas 17, 18, 19 and the Clare-Bishop area of the cerebral cortex to the claustrum have been investigated in the cat using intracortical injections of [3H]proline. Radioactive material was found in a dorsocaudal region of the contralateral claustrum. This region was homotopic with respect to that found for the ipsilateral projection from visual cortex. The contralateral connection is assumed to be a monosynaptic pathway. The pattern by which the corticofugal fibres terminate in the claustrum is quite similar to the one described for the opposite hemisphere [6].
Non-linearities of temporal summation in neurones in area 17 of the cat.	Sinusoidal temporal modulation of the contrast of sinusoidal gratings has been used to provide one description of the temporal properties of neurones in area 17 of the cat's visual cortex. Concurrently, the waveforms of the neurones' responses to 2 s flashes of identical gratings were examined. In most neurones, the response to the long flash was much more transient than would be expected from the shape of the temporal-frequency tuning curve. Temporal summation in cortical neurones is non-linear.
Autoradiographic evidence for projections from cortical visual areas 17, 18, 19 and the Clare-Bishop area to the ipsilateral claustrum in the cat.	Projections from different visual areas of the cerebral cortex to the ipsilateral claustrum have been investigated in the cat by intracortical injections of [3H]proline. As a consequence of axonal flow an accumulation of radioactive material within a dorso-caudal region of the ipsilateral claustrum was found. The proline-transporting terminal arborizations of projections from areas 17, 18, 19 and the Clare-Bishop area overlap in the same claustral region. No point-to-point relation was observed between any one visual area and its claustral projection. Differences in the terminal distribution pattern were detectable according to the visual areas of origin.
Visual recovery after treatment for pituitary adenoma.	Visual functions were studied pre- and post-operatively in 128 patients treated for pituitary adenoma with operations by intracranial (89 patients) or transsphenoidal approach (39 patients). Most patients were given post-operative irradiation. Follow-up was 6 months or more. Visual field defects were seen pre-operatively in 85% of the patients operated intracranially and in 36% of the patients operated transsphenoidally. Visual acuity was reduced, at least in one eye, in 64% of the patients in the former group and in 26% of the latter group. Additional diagnostic information was obtained from recordings of visually evoked cortical potentials. After intracranial operations visual acuity was normalized or improved in 65% and visual fields in 82% of the patients with pre-operative visual defects. After transsphenoidal operations the corresponding values were 56% and 92%. A detailed analysis of the visual acuity showed that eyes with optic atrophy pre-operatively improved to a very limited extent. Other pre-operative ophthalmological disturbances were of much less prognostic significance. Improvement of vision was often gradual and could continue for more than a year after treatment. Even if visual acuity and visual fields had been completely restored, visually evoked cortical potentials could remain impaired, indicating that evoked potentials might be a very sensitive test for the evaluation of visual recovery.
Visually guided behaviour of cats in the absence of retino-geniculo-cortical pathways.	Visually guided behaviour was studied in cats after various lesions of the central nervous system in order to obtain further information about the functional capacity and developmental plasticity of subcortical visual areas. Hemidecortications were made in all cats either within 5 days of birth (neonatal) or more than one year after birth (adult). In addition the optic chiasm was transected at another time in some cats, or the optic tract contralateral to the hemidecortication in the other cats. Visual behaviour was investigated with several tests: Locomotion among obstacles (free field). Search for openings of chambers (labyrinth). Jumping from/between boxes of different heights (jumpbox). Object vision and visual field (fish-picking cage). Visual learning (T-maze). Pupillary light reactions. Visual placing reactions. Reactions to moving visual stimuli. The hemidecortications caused different visual defects for the adults and the neonatals, which in addition showed varying prominence depending on type of test. All cats showed defects which were caused by hemianopia. Less defects were found in the free field, labyrinth and jumpbox tests for the neonatals compared to the adults. The difference is attributed to a better ability of the neonatals to utilize subcortical visual areas for visual orientation in space. The subsequent optic chiasm or optic tract sections permitted comparison between the functional capacity of crossed and uncrossed retinal fibres to subcortical structures. The uncrossed fibres were found to be unable to maintain any visually guided behaviour even for the above described neonatals. It appears likely that the better vision of the neonatally hemidecorticated cats was mediated via crossed retinal fibres to subcortical structures. It was eventually possible to demonstrate visually guided behaviour which was mediated via subcortical structures also in the adult hemidecorticated cats in the T-maze. The residual vision consisted of an ability to discriminate contrast differences. The present findings emphasize the potential functional importance of subcortical visual areas in the cat, especially after early brain damage. The differential findings from the different tests have shown the limitations of single test investigations. The presence of learnt visual behaviour in the absence of spontaneous visual behaviour for individual animals of this study advocates for greater use of spontanous behaviour for investigations of visual defects caused by brain lesions.
Commissural channels of visual information transmission]	Experiments were made in adult cats with different transections of the classical and commissural visual tracts to study evoked potentials and unit neuronal activity in response to visual stimulation. The commissural channels of the telencephalon, diencephalon and mesencephalon were demonstrated to be highly effective in visual information conduction to the visual cortex. Complete transection of the classical and commissural tracts with the exception of the commissural tract of the third ventricle fundus and midbrain reticular formation resulted in the disappearance of evoked potentials in the visual cortex in response to light flashes, despite the fact that 8 of the 15 recorded neurons responded to photostimulation. Activation of such neurons was caused by visual information conduction via two possible commissural channels: midbrain reticular formation and subventricular interhemispheric commissures of the diencephalon.
Release of dopamine evoked by electrical stimulation of the motor and visual areas of the cerebral cortex in both caudate nuclei and in the substantia nigra in the cat.	The effects of unilateral stimulation of the cerebral motor cortex and of the visual cortical area on the activity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons were examined in halothane-anesthetized cats. For this purpose, one push-pull cannula was inserted in each caudate nuclei and another one in the substantia nigra ipsilateral to the stimulated side. In all cases, the release of [3H]dopamine ([3H]DA) continuously formed from L-[3,5-3H]tyrosine was estimated in superfusates. Unilateral electrical stimulation of the cerebral motor cortex (area 4) induced a long-lasting and similar activation of [3H]DA release in both caudate nuclei. The activation of [3H]DA release in the contralateral side was selectively abolished after acute transection of the rostral part of the corpus callosum. This transection also suppressed the flexion of the contralateral forelimb induced by the stimulation. The activation of [3H]DA release could be related to the stimulation of corticostriatal neurons which may interact directly or indirectly with dopaminergic terminals in both caudate nuclei. Unilateral electrical stimulation of the visual cortex (areas 18 and 19) markedly stimulated the release of [3H]DA in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus. A slight effect was seen in the contralateral structure 20 min after the stimulation. These results are consistent with the existence of a main ipsilateral pathway originating from the visual cortex and projecting directly to the striatum. Both types of electrical stimulation immediately activated the release of [3H]DA in the ipsilateral substantia nigra. These effects were still seen 20 min after the stimulations. The activation of the dendritic release of [3H]DA could be related to the stimulation of a corticonigral projection. These results further indicate that the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons may be involved in sensory motor integration.
Cortical potentials evoked by a TV pattern reversal stimulus with varying check sizes and stimulus field.	With the use of television equipment the influence of check size and stimulus field on the pattern evoked cortical potentials was investigated. Maximum responses were found with 20' and 40' checks. The major part of the responses was initiated from a ring between 1.25 degrees and 2.5 degrees eccentricity, though relatively per stimulus area the response became progressively larger the smaller the stimulus field.
Variation in latency times of visually evoked cortical potentials.	Latency times of visually evoked cortical potentials stimulated by reversal of a slow checkerboard pattern are highly dependent on the time needed to accomplish the reversal movement. If, owing to the method, the pattern reversal time is not kept stable, variability of the latency times is unnecessarily high for clinical purposes. This may be the case when television equipment is used.
Electrophysiological evidences of mutual modulatory influences on the retinal activity of the crayfish Procambarus bouvieri (O).	Electroretinographic evoked potentials (ERGs) were recorded in dark adapted crayfish by the application of pulses of light (0.09 Cd/ft2) presented every 2.5 min. Heterolateral illumination (HI) for sixty min (0.06-0.3 Cd/ft2) induced up to 50% decrease in ERG after a latency of 12-25 min. ERG depression was proportional to the intensity of HI and also showed a circadian rhythm. During the alpha phase the ERG recovery started 3-10 min after HI was turned off. In contrast it started only after 10-20 min during the rho phase. The time course of the ERG depression, which was abolished in splitbrain animals, strongly suggests that a mutual modulatory influence, probably of neuroendocrine nature, is present in the crayfish visual system.
Visual orientation in the rat: a dissociation of deficits following cortical and collicular lesions.	Rats with either bilateral ablations of superior colliculus, bilateral ablations of visual cortex, or sham operations were trained to run across a large arena towards a small illuminated target which varied in location from trial to trial. An impairment in this visually-guided running was apparent in the cortical group, but not in the collicular group. When, in a second experiment, the spatial relationships within the apparatus were changed by extending the entry-tunnel some distance into the arena, the running of the cortical group became even more impaired, while the collicular animals continued to run towards the targets under efficient visual control. In a third experiment, the effect of introducing a novel flashing light in various locations around the perimeter of the arena was investigated. It was found that unlike the other two groups, the collicular animals showed no orienting reflex to the novel stimulus when it was presented outside a broad central area of the visual field.
Receptive-field properties of neurons in binocular and monocular segments of striate cortex in cats raised with binocular lid suture.	1. We studied the receptive fields of 171 striate cortical neurons from 17 cats raised with binocular lid suture. Of these, 102 fields were within 10 degrees of the area centralis and the remaining 69 were at least 38 degrees from the vertical meridian. 2. Based on their different response properties, cells were divided into three broad groups: the mappable cells (49%) had clearly defined receptive fields, the unmappable cells (31%) were activated by visual stimuli but had diffuse fields which could not be hand plotted, and the visually inexcitable cells (20%) could not be activated by visual stimuli. Very few (less than or equal to 12% of the total sample) normal simple or complex cells could be found. 3. Orientation selectivity was assessed in these cells. Only 12% displayed orientation selectivity within normal bounds, and these were all mappable cells. None of the unmappable cells had discernible orientation selectivity. 4. Ocular dominance was assessed for 62 of the centrally located receptive fields. Among mappable cells, there was an abnormally low proportion of binocular fields, while no such abnormality was seen for unmappable cells. 5. For 47 of the neurons, average response histograms were compiled for moving stimuli of various parameters in an effort to evoke the maximum discharge or peak response. This peak response was normal for mappable cells but reduced for unmappable cells. 6. We devised a technique for studying potential inhibitory receptive-field zones in these neurons, validated the method in normal striate cortex, and used it to test 20 mappable cells in the lid-sutured cats. None showed the pattern of strong inhibitory side bands seen in normal simple cells, although six showed weak or abnormal inhibitory zones. Interestingly, six of the seven visually inexcitable cells tested by this method had purely inhibitory receptive fields. 7. The effects of binocular suture were essentially identical for the binocular and monocular segments since the cell types and their response properties did not differ between these two areas of cortex. Furthermore, the cortical monocular segments of these cats seemed qualitatively different from the deprived cortical monocular segment after monocular suture. This extends an analogous difference for these cats reported for the monocular segments of the lateral geniculate nucleus. We thus conclude that monocularly and binocularly sutured cats develop by qualitatively different mechanisms. For the former, competition between central synapses related to each eye is a prominent feature of geniculocortical development, whereas, for the latter, such specific forms of geniculocortical development may not obtain.
Flicker sensitivity changes after subcortical visual system lesions in the rat.	Sensitivity to sinusoidal flicker, as a function of flicker frequency, was measured behaviourally in hooded rats by reducing modulation depth in a two-choice flicker versus no-flicker discrimination until subjects could not perform at above 80% correct. Analogous methods were used to measure spatial contrast sensitivity. In both tasks the display area was 24 x 20 degrees. Bilateral lesions were made in one of 4 structures; superior colliculus (SC), pretectum (PRT), posterior thalamus (PT), or ventral lateral geniculate nucleus (LGv). A fifth group served as sham operated controls. On the basis of histology the LGv group was subdivided according to presence or absence of optic tract damage. PT, PRT and LGv lesions produced a statistically significant depression in flicker sensitivity, the impairment in the LGv sub-group with optic tract damage being significantly greater than that in the LGv group with optic tract sparing. In the latter, post-operative sensitivity correlated significantly with amount of surviving tissue in the thalamic radiations but not with surviving LGv itself. PRT and LGv lesions that involved the optic tract also significantly depressed spatial contract sensitivity. The implications of the finding, that PT and LGv lesions may depress flicker sensitivity without affecting spatial vision, for interpretation of the effects of comparable lesions on suprathreshold discrimination are discussed.
Effects of lateral suprasylvian visual cortex lesions on visual localization, discrimination, and attention in cats.	Experiments were carried out to begin to define the behavioral functions of the lateral suprasylvian (LS) visual area of the cat's cortex. Behavioral tasks were chosen for analysis on the basis of previous suggestions in the literature concerning possible functions of LS cortex and its afferent pathways. These tasks included the ability of cats to orient the head and eyes to a stimulus presented in particular locations in the visual field, the ability to learn successive reversals of a two-choice visual pattern discrimination, and the ability to maintain or shift attention between relevant or irrelevant visual form and brightness cues. Eight cats were trained on each of these tasks. Four of the cats then received bilateral lesions of LS cortex, including the AMLS and PMLS regions, and the remaining 4 cats were used to assess normal retention. The LS cortex lesions had no significant effect upon performance of any of the behaviors tested. Thus, this region of cortex appears to play no essential role in simple brightness, form, and pattern discrimination performance, visual reversal learning, maintaining and shifting visual attention, or orienting the head and eyes to stimuli in the visual field. These results are discussed in relation to previous lesion studies involving large regions of the cat's extrastriate cortex and studies in other species. Possible functions of LS cortex, based upon recent electrophysiological studies, are suggested.
Cholinergic modulation of the functional organization of the cat visual cortex.	The cortex receives a cholinergic input which is considered to be involved in mediating the effects of arousal. The experiments reported here have examined the nature of the cholinergic influence on the neuronal organization of the cat visual cortex. Out of 83 cells studied, 92% exhibited a modification in their visual response properties during the iontophoretic application of ACh. These comprised 61% in which responses were facilitated and 31% in which responses were depressed. The facilitatory effects were associated with a striking increase in stimulus specific responses without any concomitant loss in the selectivity. This comment applied equally to orientation and direction selectivity. It is argued that the facilitatory action of ACh on stimulus specific responses is consistent with a modulation of potassium conductance and most probably the conductance associated with a voltage dependent channel. We found no evidence to support the view that the facilitatory action involved disinhibition; the action of bicuculline, which blocks inhibitory influences in the visual cortex, was quite distinct to that of ACh. The facilitatory and depressive effects of ACh did not show any correlation with the simple-complex classification of cells or any other obvious parameter of receptive field organization, but there was a correlation with cortical lamination. Cells facilitated by ACh were found in all cortical laminae, but those depressed by ACh were found in laminae III and IV.
Laminar organization of tree shrew dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus.	This study investigated the organization of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) of the tree shrew (Tupaia glis) using both microelectrode recording and anatomical techniques. The tree shrew LGN contains approximately 100,000 cells, of which 20% are in layers 2 and 6. These two layers receive input from the ipsilateral eye. The topography of the tree shrew LGN was delineated by taking systematic penetrations through the structure. Examination of the organization of the LGN laminae showed the following: in layer 1 (the lamina next to the optic tract) a mixture of on-center, off-center and on-off center cells was found; the majority of these cells responded transiently to visual stimuli and they had slightly longer conduction latencies than did cells in the other laminae. On-center and off-center cells in laminae 2-6 were sharply segregated: layers 2, 3, and 4 contained off-center cells and layers 5 and 6 contained on-center cells. Most of the cells in laminae 2-6 responded in a sustained manner to visual stimuli. These results suggest that one function of the LGN lamina is to group cells into various classes. Such grouping has now been shown to occur partially or completely for 1) eye of origin, 2) cell types characterized as on-center and off-center, and 3) cell types characterized as producing transient and sustained responses. The nature and degree of laminar specificity, however, varies considerably from species to species.
Influence of the visual cortex on responses of retinal ganglion cells in the rat.	The objective of the present investigation was to answer the following question: Does the visual cortex affect the neuronal firing of retinal ganglion cells in the rat? To test this hypothesis, the visual cortex was inactivated by a reversible cryoblockade. Action potentials of a ganglion cell were recorded from its axon at the optic tract level prior to, during, and following cortical blockade. The results indicated that indeed the visual cortex influenced the retinal output since its inactivation led to a modification of the firing pattern evoked in response to a flash of light. In most cases the modification was an increase of the bursting pattern of the evoked discharges. By contrast cooling nonvisual areas failed to modify ganglion cells' discharge. A comparison between cortico-geniculate and cortico-retinal feedback loops seems to suggest that the first path is involved mostly with the spatial organization of center-surround receptive fields, whereas the second path is associated with temporal aspects of the retinal responses in the rat.
Spatial frequency mechanisms in human vision investigated by evoked potential recording.	Two visually evoked brain responses were elicited simultaneously by stimulating the eye with two superimposed sinewave grating patterns that were temporally modulated at slightly different rates. The VEP to one grating was comparatively little affected by the presence of the other grating when the two spatial frequencies were very different, but mutual attenuation grew stronger and stronger as the spatial frequencies of the two gratings were progressively brought together. The attenuation rose to a sharp maximum when the two spatial frequencies were equal. This held at each of the five spatial frequencies tested. This finding can be explained if the spatially-selective mechanisms responsible for grating VEPs contain multiple subunits of narrower spatial frequency bandwidth. The two-grating technique was also used to search for evidence of multiple subunits that are most sensitive at the same spatial frequency, but are tuned to different temporal frequencies. Findings were quite different for temporal and for spatial tuning. Attenuation of one grating VEP was greatest when the temporal frequency of the other grating fell within a broad frequency range of about 3-30 reversals sec-1: maximum attenuation could occur when the gratings had quite different temporal frequencies. This finding denies that for every given temporal frequency there is a subunit maximally sensitive to that frequency.
Evoked potential contrast sensitivity in the parafovea: spatial organization.	Visual evoked potential contrast sensitivity functions (VEP/CSFs) were determined for counterphase flickered sine-wave gratings in circular fields up to 8 degrees in diameter centered on the fovea. VEP sources responding to 16 c/deg gratings appeared to be concentrated in the central 2 degrees of the visual field while sources responding to lower spatial frequencies appeared to be distributed over progressively wider areas of the visual field as spatial frequency decreased. It was also found that independently determined VEP/CSFs for non-overlapping annular regions of the visual field centered on the fovea summed to equal the VEP/CSF obtained when both regions were stimulated simultaneously.
Tonic component of the conditioned reflex process and its functional role]	Tonic background activity of 266 neurones in the hippocampus and different neocortical areas was studied in freely moving rabbits in the process of defensive and food instrumental conditioned performance and during switching-over of instrumental and classical food and defensive reflexes. Associations of CS and reinforcement evoke background activity changes in most of recorded cortical neurones preceding the development of other conditioned manifestations. Conditioned reflex was performed only after reaching the background firing rate of almost every examined neurone optimal for its realization. The performance of different conditioned reflexes was associated with different background activity levels of cortical neurones. The above mentioned data form the experimental basis for the identification of the tonic component in conditioned process which reflects tonic character of temporary connection formation and function.
Cortical magnification factor and contrast sensitivity to luminance-modulated chromatic gratings.	Contrast sensitivity to luminance-modulated blue, green, red, and neutral gratings was measured at different spatial frequencies and eccentricities within 0-86 deg in the temporal visual field. Contrast sensitivity to gratings of constant area and spatial frequency was independent of wavelength composition but decreased with increasing eccentricity. When the gratings were scaled by the magnification factor of the human striate cortex to produce cortically similar stimulus conditions at different eccentricities (M-scaling), contrast sensitivities became independent of visual field location irrespective of grating colour. Using colour naming we found, in accordance with previous studies, that hue changed and saturation decreased when the eccentricity of a constant-size grating field increased. In contrast, the hue and saturation of M-scaled grating fields were independent of eccentricity. The results suggest that the effects of eccentricity on photopic colour vision can largely be counteracted by M-scaling which adjusts the spatial aspects of stimuli with respect to the decrease in ganglion cell density and increase in receptive field size towards the periphery of the visual field.
An analysis of human EEG responses in the alpha range of frequencies.	The diffuse thalamocortical system (DTS) can be represented by a simple 'lumped' model if near synchronous activity of thalamocortical 'circuits' is assumed. Such activity results in scalp potential changes that are manifest in the EEG. The model suggested by the anatomy and physiology of the DTS is also suggested by the dynamic character of the EEG and it is testable since it is possible to excite the DTS with a stimulus input and record the corresponding EEG response. Experiments carried out on 48 human subjects reveal that the model can account for most of the within- and across-subject amplitude variation of EEG evoked responses to sinusoidally modulated diffuse light. It can also explain phenomena specifically associated with stimulation of the DTS, namely 'after-discharges,' 'recruiting responses' and EEG 'alpha activity.' Most importantly, the model makes it possible to carry out a precise analysis of EEG responses to stimulation in terms that are neurophysiologically and psychologically meaningful.
Equalization of the coherence of rhythms in the EEG and its significance.	The article treats problems related to the application of coherent analysis in studying the spatial synchronization of rhythms in the EEG. The significance of comparing the changes in the coherent functions (CF) of more combinations of cerebral structures, i.e. of intercoherent relations, is pointed out. Evidence is given that the observed equalization of the coherence according to different frequency ranges has a definite physiological significance, connected with the readjustment of the functional state of the nervous system on the basis of changes in the organization of the spatial rhythmic interrelations in it. Tests are made of several parameters for quantitative estimation of the changes in the intercoherent relations, which may be applicable to studying the organization of rhythms in the bioelectrical activity of the nervous system in different functional states in norm and pathology.
Hemisphere specialization, bilaterality, and sex dimorphism in noise resistance.	This study shows the existence of right-sided lateral specialization of hemisphere noise resistance control of visual discrimination in rats. As a rule, right hemisphere activity, to a greater degree than left hemisphere activity is conducive to the improvement of noise resistance, the left hemisphere sometimes making it worse. Indications have been obtained concerning the existence of sex dimorphism of noise immunity in rats' visual discrimination. It is possible that the intact and split brain are more noise resistant in males than in females and are characterized by a greater asymmetry. The role of bilateral mechanisms in noise resistance is described: after section of the corpus callosum, noise resistance may either improve or deteriorate. It has been found that interhemispheric asymmetry can be changed up to its inversion by means of one of the hemisphere's polarization.
Responsiveness of inferotemporal single units to visual pattern stimuli in monkeys performing discrimination.	Four monkeys were trained to choose two rewarded stimuli from four two-dimensional patterns presented successively, and the responsiveness of single units to these patterns was investigated. Eighty-three of 214 units (39%) recorded from the dorsolateral portion of the inferotemporal cortex were responsive; nearly half responded to all four patterns, irrespective of pattern shape and of whether the stimuli were rewarded or not. A few units were responsive to only one of the patterns, regardless of size, color, or luminance, and unresponsiveness to components of the response-eliciting patterns was indicated in some of these units. The activity of most units response to two or three patterns was dependent on pattern shapes rather than the learnt meaning of the patterns.
Comparative study of somatic and visual projections on the cerebral cortex of the normal adult rat, the rat enucleated at birth, and the young rat]	A comparative study of somatic and visual projections on the cerebral cortex of the adult of the normal rat or of the rat enucleated at birth, and of the young rat. This study was first designed to examine the developmental features of somate, sensory and visual projections to the rat cerebral cortex, together with their alteration as a consequence of early sensory deafferentation. We were led to a reevaluation of these projectins in the normal adult rat. This study specifically shows that topical projections exist, for both the somatic and the visual system. However, projections that are highly convergent in nature are present over most of the superolateral aspect of the cerebral cortex and we were unable to demonstrate any simple change resulting from early visual deafferentation.
Clinical and experimental evidence that the pattern electroretinogram (PERG) is generated in more proximal retinal layers than the focal electroretinogram (FERG).	A TV monitor was used to evoke either a pattern ERG to a contrast-reversing checkerboard (PERG), or a focal ERG to alternate increases and decreases of luminance of the blank screen within a bright surround (FERG). Both responses are small (approx 2 microV) and fast (approx 50 msec to peak) and are similar in several other properties. However, they differ in timing and respond differently to changes in contrast. Each frame of a TV picture evokes a "raster ERG," even though the screen is blank. The response is focal and specific to a small central strip of the screen. It is simpler to record than the FERG, where the whole screen is flashing. Because the FERG summation area is about 4 deg, small squares (checks) reversing in contrast produce little luminance response. In 5 of 7 cases where the PERG is unilaterally reduced, the FERGs or raster responses were not affected. Thus clinical evidence also suggests that the PERG may be a separate phenomenon to the FERG and produced at a different site. Toxic, traumatic, congenital, and degenerative diseases of the optic nerve reduce the PERG. The comparison is most easily made in unilateral disease. Ten weeks after an optic nerve insult, the PERG becomes reduced in the affected eye as if retrograde degeneration was occurring. In 27 amblyopes of various types, the PERG was reduced in 23 where orthoptic treatment had failed. In 4 patients responding to treatment, PERGs of the amblyopic eye were as large as, or larger than, those of the fellow eye. The loss is greater with smaller checks. Retinal changes do occur after age 4 but so slowly that responses in heavily occluded eyes are not reduced. An additional level in the visual pathway is thus accessible to evoked potential investigation.
Responses of the receptive fields of frog retinal ganglion cells to the anterior and posterior margins of moving stimuli]	Arrangement of on- and off-discharge centres in the receptive fields of the 1st and 3d classes of the frog retina was determined by means of moving bars of different length. Three groups of fields are found. On- and off-centres of the 1st group receptive fields coincide, those of the 2nd group are divided spatially; in the 3d group fields the central position is occupied by the discharge centre of the same contrast sign, and in the periphery the discharge centres of the opposite sign are arranged to the right and to the left of the discharge centre. Thus the frog retina receptive fields possess features resembling concentric receptive fields of geniculate neurons and visual cortex field of the cat. The asymmetry in responses was found: with a bar moving in opposite directions the distance between discharge centres "changed"; with a bar moving in one direction only one of peripheral centres was revealed and with a bar moving in another direction--the second centre on the opposite side of the receptive field was detected. This asymmetry in space-time relations in the receptive fields is analogous to that which is found in the fields of the cortex neurons and is connected with their directional properties.
Newer laboratory approaches for assessing visual dysfunction.	The crucial point that will be emphasized throughout this report is the potential utility of analyzing visual cortical receptive field (RF) properties of the single-cell level as a sensitive and reliable neurotoxicity screening tool. Numerous studies employing exposure of kittens to altered visual environments during the critical period have demonstrated that particular classes of RFs can be selectively affected while sparing others. There has been a rapid proliferation of new methods used to investigate such effects. An important current trend involves the development of multidisciplinary combinations of approaches. The various maneuvers reviewed here seem adaptable to studying neurotoxic insult of the sensitive properties of cortical visual neurons, particularly in the cat or monkey. Conceivably, a general disruption of cortical RF properties might be expected following toxic exposure since individual RF properties are generally not determined by completely independent mechanisms. In fact, some toxicants might produce a general degradation of RF properties akin to the electrophysiological results reported for long-term dark rearing or binocular deprivation.
Contrast gain control in the cat visual cortex.	The eye functions effectively over an enormous range of ambient illumination, because retinal sensitivity can be adapted to prevailing light levels. Higher order neurones in the visual pathway are presumably more concerned with relative changes in illumination, that is, contrast, because a great deal of information concerning absolute light level is processed at the retinal level. It would therefore be of considerable functional value if cells in the visual cortex could adapt their response levels to a steady-state ambient contrast, in a manner analogous to the sensitivity control mechanism of the retina. We have examined here the idea that adaptation of neurones in the visual cortex to ambient contrast is similar to adaptation in the retina to ambient illumination. The experiments were performed by measuring contrast response functions (response amplitude as a function of contrast) of striate neurones, while systematically adapting them to different contrast levels. Our results show that, for the majority of cortical neurones, response-contrast curves are laterally shifted along a log-contrast axis so that the effective domains of neurones are adjusted to match prevailing contrast levels. This contrast gain control mechanism, which was not observed for lateral geniculate (LGN) fibres, must be of prime importance to visual function.
Theory of spatial position and spatial frequency relations in the receptive fields of simple cells in the visual cortex.	Striate cells showing linear spatial summation obey very general mathematical inequalities relating the size of their receptive fields to the corresponding spatial frequency and orientation tuning characteristics. The experimental data show that, in the preferred direction of stimulus motion, the spatial response profiles of cells in the simple family are well described by the mathematical form of Gabor elementary signals. The product of the uncertainties in signaling spatial position (delta x) and spatial frequency (delta f) has, therefore, a theoretical minimum value of delta x delta f = 1/2. We examine the implications that these conclusions have for the relationship between the spatial response profiles of simple cells and the characteristics of their spatial frequency tuning curves. Examples of the spatial frequency tuning curves and their associated spatial response profiles are discussed and illustrated. The advantages for the operation of the visual system of different relationships between the spatial response profiles and the characteristics of the spatial frequency tuning curves are examined. Two examples are discussed in detail, one system having a constant receptive field size and the other a constant bandwidth.
Recursive features of circular receptive fields.	The distribution of excitability in retinal receptive fields may be well approximated by functions with recursive features. Physiological data do not exclude an implementation of recursive structures in the visual system. It is the most remarkable advantage of a recursive visual system, that cortical receptive fields tuned to different spatial frequencies will have an identical neuronal circuitry. Structural consequences for retina, LGN and visual cortex are discussed.
A model of the early stages of the human visual system: functional and topological transformations performed in the peripheral visual field.	A model of the early stages of the visual system is presented, with particular reference to the region of the visual field outside the fovea and to the class of retinal and lateral geniculate nucleus cells which are most active in the processing of patter information (X-cells). The main neuroanatomical and neurophysiological properties taken into account are: the linear increase of the receptive fields diameter with eccentricity, the constancy of the overlap factor and the topological transformation operated upon the retinal image by the retino-cortical connection. The type of filtering taking place between the retina and the visual cortex is analyzed and some simulations are presented. It is shown that such a filtering is of a bandpass space variant type, with center frequencies that decrease from the center (i.e. the fovea) toward the periphery of the visual field. This processing is "form invariant" under linear scaling of the input. Moreover, considering the properties of the retino-cortical connection, it is shown that the "cortical images" undergo simple shifts whenever the retinal images are scaled or rotated.
Orientation sensitivity of cat LGN neurones with and without inputs from visual cortical areas 17 and 18.	Orientation sensitivity was tested, using moving bars as stimuli, in 136 LGN cells in normal cats and 82 LGN cells in cats with areas 17 and 18 lesioned. The responses of most neurones showed some dependence on the orientation of the line stimulus. The orientation bias was more pronounced for long, narrow bars moving at rather slow velocities. Length-response curves revealed less end-inhibition along the optimum orientation than along the non-optimum orientation. Thiry-two percent of the cells in the normal cats and 50% in the lesioned animals responded best to orientations within 10 degrees of the vertical or horizontal. The oblique orientations were represented poorly in the lesioned group. Thus the corticogeniculate feedback may serve to confer a more uniform distribution of orientation preferences on the LGN. It is suggested that the orientation biases of LGN neurones may play a role in building orientation-selective cells in the visual cortex. Further, the preferences for horizontal and vertical orientations in the LGN may explain the preferences for these orientations reported for visual cortical cells.
Single unit receptive fields in rabbit primary binocular cortex.	The receptive fields of 125 single units recorded from the binocular region of rabbit primary visual cortex have been analysed. The population of 43% radially symmetric, 23% directional, and 23% orientation selective units is similar to that of rabbit monocular visual cortex. The relative scarcity of orientation selective units and the absence of orientation columns differentiates rabbit from cat primary visual cortex. However, the majority of binocular units had similar receptive fields in each eye and very unconventional receptive fields were not encountered. Tested binocular units demonstrated summation upon simultaneous stimulation of both receptive fields. In conjunction with findings reported elsewhere, these results suggest that rabbit and cat possess a similar provision for binocular vision in spite of some differences in their cortical organisation.
Cortical mechanisms involved in praxis: observations following partial and complete section of the corpus callosum in man.	In patients who have undergone complete section of the corpus callosum for intractable epilepsy, lateralized presentation of visual nonverbal stimulation showed that the coordination of motor acts by either hand is controlled exclusively by the contralateral hemisphere. When two patients had serial operations consisting of an initial division of the splenium and posterior 3 cm, followed by complete callosal division, an opportunity arose to test the explicit cortical pathways involved in ipsilateral control. Between operations, these patients could not coordinate movements of the hand ipsilateral to the hemisphere receiving the command. This suggested that for visual nonverbal stimulation, the posterior 3 cm of corpus callosum is necessary for control of the ipsilateral hand; the rostral callosum cannot transfer sensorimotor commands. Also, contrary to current views, each hemisphere can carry out sequentially dependent motor activity.
Afferent and efferent connections of cat omnipause neurons.	Afferent and efferent connections of behaviorally identified omnipause neurons involved in saccadic eye movements were investigated electrophysiologically in cats anesthetized with ketamine hydrochloride. Pause cells were polysynaptically excited by electrical stimulation of the optic chiasm (mean latency = 8.3 ms), the visual cortex (mean latency = 7.3 ms), and the superior colliculus (mean latency = 2.6 ms). Bilateral removal of either the visual cortex or the superior colliculus 1 week prior to the experiment abolished optic chiasm responses. Pause cells were antidromically activated by electrical stimulation of the prerubral fields (mean latency = 1.1 ms), or the pontine and medullary reticular formation (mean latency = 1.0 ms). Frequently, the same pause cell was antidromically excited by prerubral and pontine or medullary reticular stimulation indicating that its axon was branched. The spontaneous discharge of pause cells was polysynaptically suppressed by sustained galvanic polarization of either labyrinth, or by multiple shock stimulation in the reticular formation.
Linear and nonlinear properties of cat visual cortex receptive fields]	Impulse responses of the simple fields cat visual cortex were found to be modulated by gratings passing the field. The complex fields proved to be of three types: with modulated responses, unmodulated responses, and with modulated responses against unmodulated background. Amplitude-phase characteristic (APC) measured were inverse Fourier transformed to obtain the field's weighting function. Simultaneously the APC was reconstructed from the responses to edges and bars, with the use of the Fourier transform. Cross-comparison of the reconstructed APC and the WF showed that a RF has some linear properties but, strictly considered, is a non-linear system. Simple fields display the largest degree of linearity. The more complex field is the greater departures from linearity. As linear methods are inadequate for dealing with cortical RFs, their identification was performed in model experiments on a computer. The evidence obtained suggest that the RFs form a system of operators which perform the expansion of the image in non-classical pattern. Such an expansion can be termed quasi-Fourier-description.
Subtotal lesions of the visual cortex impair discrimination of hidden figures by cats.	Cats with partial or nearly total ablation of areas 17, 18, and 19 were assessed on the discrimination of hidden figures and other visually guided behaviors to determine whether such insults produce deficits like those that follow lateral striate lesions in monkeys. Cats with destruction limited to the representation of central vision (Group M) were impaired at discriminating patterns complicated by extraneous cues, but they were less impaired than cats with more complete lesions (Group MS). The deficit was not a general one in visual learning since animals in both Groups M and MS learned simple pattern discriminations as rapidly as controls. It is suggested that the loss of geniculocortical functions representing central vision produces similar deficits in cats and monkeys but that to have this effect in cats, damage must extend beyond area 17.
Preoperative overtraining protects against form learning deficits after lateral occipital lesions in Galago senegalensis.	Bushbabies (Galago senegalensis) trained on a form discrimination task in a two-choice apparatus prior to partial disruption of the central field representation of vision in striate cortex were found to be protected from postoperative deficit. These same animals were deficient in learning novel form discriminations. Pre- and postoperative tests of these subjects on discrimination of fine stripe patterns and of small food objects gave no evidence of reduced epicritic visual capacities. Results are discussed in terms of an interpretive role in form learning for areas of central field representation in primary visual cortex.
Unequal alternating monocular deprivation causes asymmetric visual fields in cats.	Kittens were reared so that each eye received normal patterned vision on alternate days. If the eyes received equal periods of stimulation, the visual fields were normal. If one eye received much more experience than the other, the field of the less experienced eye was restricted to the temporal hemifield. This change, which differs from that observed when one or both eyes are deprived continuously of patterned input, suggests that an imbalance in the duration of stimulation can influence the outcome of the normal competitive interaction between pathways from the two eyes and can cause a selective suppression of a portion of the input from the less experienced eye. This suppression may involve the ipsilateral retino-geniculo-cortical pathways or it may involve the entire cortical pathway from the less experienced eye, leaving the colliculus to control responses to visual targets.
Temporal properties of binocular mechanisms in the human visual system.	A dichoptic stimulation paradigm was used to determine the degree to which the two monocular images must match in terms of the temporal properties to yield facilitation in binocular grating detection. Several converging lines of evidence point to the existence of two separate neural mechanisms in binocular detection. One of these mechanisms is selective for temporal frequency and limited in its capacity to integrate information from the two eyes over time. The other mechanism is much less selective for temporal frequency and integrates over a longer period of time. At threshold these two separate mechanisms behave independently and exhibit similar degrees of binocular summation.
Experimental strabismus in the kitten.	1. We have examined the relative roles of visual and nonvisual input to striate cortex cells in causing the breakdown of binocularity produced by brief periods of visual-axis misalignment in kittens. 2. In the first study, the binocularity of single neurons recorded from the striate cortex was assessed in kittens reared with either surgical or optical strabismus. Surgical strabismus was induced by performing a unilateral medial rectus tenotomy, and optical strabismus by means of goggles that held prisms of equal power before the two eyes with their bases oriented in opposite directions. The loss of functional binocular connections was of comparable severity in these two groups of kittens. Control kittens, reared wearing goggles containing prisms whose bases were oriented in the same direction, showed normal levels of binocularity. 3. In the second experiment, normal kittens were given a surgical strabismus at around 1 mo of age and kept in total darkness for 2 days, 2 wk, or 4 wk. Cortical binocularity was normal in these kittens. 4. Finally, a group of kittens was reared in the illuminated colony with a symmetric surgical strabismus (bilateral medial rectus tenotomy). These kittens suffered a severe loss in cortical binocularity that was comparable to that seen in control kittens reared with asymmetric (unilateral) strabismus. 5. We conclude that altered visual input caused by misregister of the images falling in the two eyes is necessary and almost certainly sufficient to cause breakdown of cortical binocularity in kittens exposed to brief periods of divergent strabismus and that, when strabismus is induced surgically, this loss of binocularity is not dependent on the symmetry of the surgical manipulation; we thus find no evidence for a special role of afferents from the extraocular muscles in producing this effect.
Receptive fields of cat visual cortex neurons when photic stimulation parameters are altered]	Spatial excitability reliefs of receptive fields of visual cortex units were investigated in acute experiments on immobilized cats by changing physical and physiological parameters of light stimulation under dark, mesopic and low photopic adaptation. Transition from dark to low mesopic adaptation results in no changes of the shape and size of the receptive fields, revealed by constant intensity test slits, whereas with transition to low photopic adaptation the receptive fields were narrowed in 72% of cases and acquired an elongated shape while the sharpness of their selectivity to direction of movement and orientation of stimuli increases. At a constant background the receptive fields narrowed with decreasing brightness of the test light slit. The excitability relief in the field estimated by the absolute threshold of the cell response and by the level of intensity needed to get a constant number of discharges in response, considerably narrowed with a rise in the threshold criterion and with transition from dark to light adaptation. At light adaptation, stimulation with physiologically equal intensity revealed narrower reactivity reliefs. than those at dark adaptation. The estimation of the receptive fields, taking into account a possible contribution of light scattering in the eye media and over the screen, shows that in most cases their size cannot be explained by this factor.
Stroboscopic rearing reduces direction selectivity in rabbit visual cortex.	Rabbits reared from birth in stroboscopic illumination have no experience of visual motion. In primary visual cortex of these animals there is a large reduction in the number of cells which are direction selective. This result, contrary to previous reports, shows that the rabbit visual system can be modified by early visual experience.
Retrospective estimation and correction of physiological fluctuation in functional MRI.	Image-to-image fluctuation due to physiological motion is a major limitation to the accurate detection of neuronal activity with functional MRI. In this paper, a new and general technique for the estimation and compensation of the physiological effects is presented. By simultaneously monitoring the respiration and heart beat during the acquisition of imaging data, and retrospectively synchronizing the imaging data with physiological activity, physiological effects are estimated and removed. This technique does not rely on the periodicity of the respiration or the heart beat, does not affect the signal changes arising from neuronal activation, and is beneficial to images acquired with any speed. Experimental studies performed with FLASH and EPI sequences have demonstrated that the new technique is effective in reducing physiological fluctuation and improving the sensitivity of functional MRI and is generally applicable.
Specificity of monosynaptic connections from thalamus to visual cortex.	In cortical area 17 of the cat, simple receptive fields are arranged in elongated subregions that respond best to bright (on) or dark (off) oriented contours, whereas the receptive fields of their thalamic inputs have a concentric on and off organization. This dramatic transformation suggests that there are specific rules governing the connections made between thalamic and cortical neurons (see ref. 4). Here we report a study of these rules in which we recorded from thalamic (lateral geniculate nucleus; LGN) and cortical neurons simultaneously and related their receptive fields to their connectivity, as measured by cross-correlation analysis. The probability of finding a monosynaptic connection was high when a geniculate receptive field was superimposed anywhere over an elongated simple-cell subregion of the same signature (on or off). However, 'inappropriate' connections from geniculate cells of the opposite receptive field signature were extremely rare. Together, these findings imply that the outline of the elongated, simple receptive field, and thus of cortical orientation selectivity, is laid down at the level of the first synapse from the thalamic afferents.
Changes in the pattern of glutamate-like immunoreactivity in rat superior colliculus following retinal and visual cortical lesions.	We have investigated the pattern of glutamate-like immunoreactivity in the superficial layers of the rat superior colliculus by means of postembedding immunocytochemical methods for light and electron microscopy. At the light microscopic level, labelling was faintly to moderately intense in most perikarya of the stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. Furthermore, strong glutamate-immunoreactive terminal-like elements were accumulated most densely in stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. At the electron microscopic level, a postembedding immunogold method revealed that the vast majority of those labelled elements corresponded to retinal and visual cortical terminals. These profiles were about twice as heavily labelled as their postsynaptic partners. To determine the contribution of retinal and cortical afferents to the pattern of glutamate-like immunoreactivity, rats were subjected to right retinal ablation, left cortical ablation or combined right retinal and left cortical ablations. After retinal ablation, strongly labelled perikarya were observed in the retinorecipient layers. Furthermore, a prominent loss of glutamate-immunoreactive terminal-like elements occurred in stratum zonale and stratum griseum superficiale. Ipsilateral superior colliculus to cortical ablation exhibited subtle changes characterized by a moderate increase in perikaryal immunostaining in stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum and by an apparent discrete reduction of labelled dots in stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. In cases with combined lesions, strongly immunoreactive cell bodies and dendrites were accompanied by a massive disappearance of labelled terminal-like elements in stratum zonale, stratum griseum superficiale and stratum opticum. The effect of retinal and visual cortical ablations on the pattern of glutamate-like immunoreactivity suggests that these afferents are the major sources for glutamate-immunoreactive terminals in the rat superior colliculus. In addition, these findings provide further evidence for glutamate as neurotransmitter in the visual pathways studied.
Somatosensory and visual correlation in the optic tectum of a python, Python regius: a horseradish peroxidase and Golgi study.	In snakes with infrared receptors the optic tectum receives infrared input in addition to visual and general somatosensory inputs. In order to observe their tectal termination patterns in ball pythons, Python regius, we injected horseradish peroxidase (HRP) into the nucleus of the lateral descending trigeminal tract (LTTD) which mediates infrared information, the optic nerve, and the nucleus of the trigeminal descending tract (TTD) which relays general somatosensory information. Fibers from LTTD were found in layers 5-13 of the contralateral optic tectum, and were especially dense in layers 7a-8. Optic nerve fibers terminated in layers 7a-13 of the contralateral tectum, and mainly in layers 12-13. TTD fibers were few, and could be seen in only the rostral half of the contralateral tectum. These fibers were found in layers 5-7b, but mainly in layers 6-7a. Among various types of neurons stained by the Golgi-Cox method, we focused on six types of neurons whose dendritic arborization overlapped with the distribution of the terminals of these sensory afferents described above. It is possible that these different sensory modalities converge on a single neuron of the various types.
100 years of Benham's top in colour science.	For 100 years Benham's top has been a popular device demonstrating pattern-induced flicker colours (PIFCs). Results of early and recent investigations on PIFCs are reported and show that the phenomenon originates in phase-sensitive lateral interactions of modulated neural activity in the retina followed by additional spatial interactions in the visual cortex behind the locus of binocular fusion. Colour matches with normal colour stimuli indicate that S/(M + L) opponent neurons are involved. Dichromats do not find matching stimuli for all PIFCs. PIFCs may become useful in medical diagnosis. The phenomenon is interpreted as a side effect of a neural mechanism providing colour constancy under normal stimulus conditions.
Spatial heterogeneity of inhibitory surrounds in the middle temporal visual area.	A recurrent theme in the organization of vertebrate visual cortex is that of receptive fields with an associated "silent" opponency component. In the middle temporal area (area MT), a cortical visual area involved in the analysis of retinal motion in primates, this opponency appears in the form of a region outside the classical receptive field (CRF) that in itself gives no response but suppresses responses to motion evoked within the CRF. This antagonistic motion surround has been described as very large and symmetrically arrayed around the CRF. On the basis of this view, the primary function of the surround has long been thought to consist of simple figure-ground segregation based on movement. We have made use of small stimulus patches to map the form and extent of the surround and find evidence that the surround inhibition of many MT cells is in fact confined to restricted regions on one side or on opposite sides of the CRF. Such regions endow MT cells with the ability to make local-to-local motion comparisons, capable of extracting more complex features from the visual environment, and as such, may be better viewed as intrinsic parts of the receptive field, rather than as separate entities responsible for local-to-global comparisons.
Visualization of dendritic morphology of cortical projection neurons by retrograde axonal tracing.	Currently there is no reliable retrograde tracing technique for visualization of dendritic morphologies of projection neurons. Here we describe a simple and efficient method that can be used to label neurons in Golgi-like fashion. The approach relies on activity-dependent uptake of tracer. For this purpose we inject the glutamate receptor agonist N-methyl-D,L-aspartic acid (NMDA) at the tracer injection site to massively stimulate neurons and to thereby promote uptake of biocytin or biotinylated dextran amine (BDA) by axon terminals. The results show that co-injections of NMDA/biocytin and NMDA/BDA into the extrastriate lateromedial area (LM) of rat visual cortex labels large numbers of neurons in area 17 in Golgi-like fashion. Similarly injections of the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) lead to Golgi-like labeling of corticogeniculate neurons in area 17. The distribution of labeled neurons is highly topographic. In addition the method allows excellent preservation of ultrastructure, indicating that this approach is useful for determining the organization of neuronal circuits within the central nervous system.
Temporal integration in visual cortex of cats with surgically induced strabismus.	Single unit response latencies in striate cortex after visual stimulation with stationary flashed bars were measured and interocularly compared in anaesthetized cats with surgically induced strabismus, in order to elucidate the neural basis of strabismic amblyopia. Four unilateral esotropic and two exotropic cats were studied. The visual onset latencies of cortical neurons ranged from 30 to 170 ms after stimulation of the non-deviating eye at a contrast of 82%. Responses after visual stimulation of the deviating eye were consistently delayed by approximately 10 ms. The latency increase was independent of the direction and absolute angle of squint in the different animals. Peak latencies of cortical neurons ranged from 43 to 245 ms. Median peak latency was 85 ms for the non-deviating and 95 ms for the deviating eye. The rise time of cortical flash responses, as determined from onset-peak differences, ranged between 2 and 170 ms. Direct interocular comparison of response latencies in the remaining binocular neurons revealed an invariable advantage for the non-deviating eye. Supragranular neurons showed a greater interocular latency difference than neurons in layer IV. Visual latencies were contrast-dependent. However, the latency reduction with increasing contrast was less pronounced for the deviating eye. We discuss the possibility that central integration times, especially within cortex, are prolonged in strabismic cats, affecting temporal coincidence of signal processing in the visual cortex. The resulting disturbance of spatio-temporal integration, as caused by a scrambling of geniculo-striate and intracortical connections, may be the substrate of binocular suppression and strabismic amblyopia.
Change in integrative states of cortical neurons at consecutive stages of systemic behavior pattern]	Cats were trained to press the level after sound conditional stimulus. The spike activity of visual and parietal cortex neurons was registered during this operant feeding behavior, bring activity patterns were individual and their reorganization was observed during interstimulus non-reinforced pressings of the lever and this corresponded to prolongation of a manipulation-reinforcement interval. Thus, the firing pattern reflects the functional state of the neuron and its synaptic activation; the changes in spike activity reflect the alterations in the neuronal integrative state.
The asymmetry of parietal-visual and parietal-auditory transcallosal potentials and their sex dimorphism]	"Reverse" transcallosal responses (TCR) occurring in the visual and auditory cortex during stimulation of the temporal associative cortex of opposite hemisphere, were studied. The right hemisphere was shown to domineer in females, whereas a greater latency of the temporal-visual positive-negative TCRs was found in the males' right hemisphere and the females' left one. These and other data obtained suggest a greater lateralisation of the brain in males.
Reversal set formation in the visually decorticate rat.	Rats given large visual cortex lesions demonstrated a simultaneous task reversal deficit previously reported to follow more extensive cortical ablation. However, no deficit appeared in an operant discrimination that deemphasized visuospatial cues, and the simultaneous task deficit vanished when translucent eye occluders were applied to eliminate spatial, but not intensity, cue use. Because the lesion subjects showed an impairment only when visuospatial cues were available and relevant to correct reversal performance, they seemed hindered by their incompetent processing of visuospatial information. The results are interpreted as support for spatial rather than learning approaches to visual cortex function.
Repulsive and attractive mechanisms for the formation of corticofugal projections.	Neocortical neurones project axons to subcortical and cortical structures according to their laminar location. The axon-target interactions which produce lamina-specific efferent connections were studied in an organotypic coculture of rat visual cortex with either superior colliculus (SC) or heat-treated SC. Morphological studies with fluorescent dye demonstrated that axons from upper layer neurones did not invade living SC, which receives axonal projections from layer 5, but did extend into denatured SC. In addition, the treatment considerably reduced the number of layer 5 neurones which project to the SC. These results suggest that SC contains a repulsive factor for axonal extension from the upper cortical layer as well as an attractive factor for axonal growth from layer 5 neurones.
Modulation of inhibitory synapses in the mammalian brain.	Recent studies have identified new forms of short-term and long-term modulation at inhibitory synapses. In cerebellum and hippocampus, a transient inhibition of synaptic efficacy has been found to involve a Ca(2+)-dependent retrograde messenger. Exciting results from work in the visual cortex suggest that forms of both long-term potentiation and long-term depression occur in cortical inhibitory synapses.
The effect of the destruction of the striate and prestriate cortices on the differentiation of visual images in cats]	The experiments to examine the effects of different visual cortical lesions (area 17 and 21 of the cat cortex) on the image discrimination were conducted. Different image complexity and context of images presentation were established. Cats with area 17 lesion easily discriminated simple objects, and learned only positive image from context. Cats with area 21 lesion learned all experimental conditions. We suggest that intact area 21 carry out selection one object context.
All-or-none excitatory postsynaptic potentials in the rat visual cortex.	Intracellular recordings were obtained from supragranular neurons in slices of the rat visual cortex. In approximately 25% of the cells large (0.5-1.6 mV) excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) of constant amplitude were observed after minimal, presumably single-fibre stimulation. The amplitude variance of these large EPSPs was surprisingly small and within the range of the variance of the noise. These EPSPs could be reduced in amplitude by paired-pulse and low-frequency stimulation or by raising extracellular Mg2+ concentration. Reduced EPSPs could either continue to behave as all-or-none responses, or they could fluctuate between several amplitude levels. Conversely, responses where the amplitude fluctuated from trial to trial under control conditions could be converted into large all-or-none responses by paired-pulse facilitation. This indicates that the large all-or-none EPSPs were composed of several subunits, probably reflecting the action of several different release sites. It is concluded that these release sites are either independent and operate with a probability close to 1 or, if operating with a lower probability, are coordinated by a mechanism which synchronizes release. Several observations suggest that release probabilities can switch from values close to 1 to 0 with repetitive stimulation or high Mg2+ concentration. Thus, a substantial fraction of single-fibre inputs to supragranular cells possess synapses which operate with high synaptic efficiency and extremely low variance under control conditions but can undergo drastic changes in efficacy when release probabilities are interfered with. Such modifications of release probability could serve as an effective mechanism to regulate the gain of synaptic transmission.
Uncinate fascicle section leaves delayed matching-to-sample intact, with both large and small stimulus sets.	An earlier study found that rhinal cortex ablations in the monkey (Macaca fascicularis) impaired delayed matching-to-sample only when the stimuli in the experiment came from a large population of possible stimuli, not when the stimulus population was small. The present experiment tested the idea that delayed matching-to-sample with a small stimulus population selectively engages the direct projection from visual association cortex to the prefrontal cortex, bypassing the rhinal cortex. This selective involvement could explain the preservation, after rhinal cortex ablations, of memory for items drawn from a small stimulus population. We trained monkeys preoperatively in delayed matching-to-sample with large and small stimulus populations, exactly as in the earlier study, then examined the effect of sectioning the cortico-cortical pathway between visual association cortex and prefrontal cortex, the uncinate fascicle. Uncinate fascicle section had no effect on postoperative performance of delayed matching-to-sample, with either large or small stimulus populations. These data give no support to the idea that preserved matching with a small stimulus population after rhinal lesions reflects the selective involvement in this task of the direct projection from visual association cortex to prefrontal cortex. Further, they strengthen the idea (derived from earlier studies of uncinate fascicle section) that the uncinate fascicle does not play a general role in visual memory or perception, but instead has a specialized function in the processing of conditional instruction cues.
The role of binocular neurons in the cat striate cortex in combining information from the two eyes.	Cats were raised under conditions of daily alternating monocular exposure, so that each eye received normal input, but the animals were never allowed to use both eyes simultaneously. With single cell recording techniques it could be shown that this led to a severe disturbance of the normal binocularity of cortical neurons. The cats were trained by operant techniques in a two-choice box to discriminate with each eye non-retinotopic stimulus pairs. To test the ability to combine binocular signals it was tested whether the learned discrimination would transfer to red/green colored stimuli which were viewed dichoptically through appropriately colored contract lenses. The arrangement was such that the positive stimulus could be distinguished from the negative stimuli only when the signals from both eyes were combined and used simultaneously. All cats showed immediate transfer, from the monocularly learned discrimination task to the dichoptic paradigm. This indicates that the presence of a normal population of binocular cortical cells in area 17 is not a prerequisite for the ability to use binocular cues for the solution of a pattern discrimination task.
The lateral geniculate nucleus projects to the inferior temporal cortex in the macaque monkey.	The dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the thalamus (dLGN) projects to several extrastriate areas of the macaque brain. The extent of the dLGN projection to the visual temporal cortex was investigated using retrogradely transported dyes. A population of dLGN neurones was labelled after injections in the inferior temporal cortex (ITC) including the lower bank of the superior temporal sulcus and the inferior temporal convexity. The labelled neurons were located in the lateral half of the posterior one-third of the dLGN and predominated in the interlaminar zones or close to the borders of the parvocellular layers. This direct projection from the dLGN to the ITC may mediate some of the visual abilities known to be retained by destriated animals.
Binocularity in the nucleus of the optic tract of the opossum.	In the present work, we characterize electrophysiologically a commissural subcortical pathway which is related to binocular interactions in the nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) of the opossum. The main role played by the circuit comprising this pathway seems to be in relaying information coming from the ipsilateral eye to the NOT. The strongest evidence comes from experiments in which lidocaine was injected into the NOT and the ensuing effects in the opposite nucleus were monitored under ipsilateral monocular stimulation. It was consistently observed that during action of lidocaine the directional response normally elicited by stimulation of the ipsilateral eye did not take place in the NOT opposite to the silenced nucleus. This effect was reverted in a few minutes after recovery of the injected NOT. The response to stimulation of the contralateral eye, though, was not affected by this procedure.
Check size dependency of the sources of the hemifield-onset evoked potential.	The checkerboard-onset evoked potential does not obtain its adult waveform until late puberty. The changing waveform results from the development of the underlying sources originating in distinct areas of the visual cortex. Since the waveform of checkerboard-onset evoked potential also varies with check size, we studied the dependency of the activity of these sources on check size. A dipole source localization procedure yielded the position and orientation of the equivalent dipoles and the constituent components of the pattern-onset evoked potential, each corresponding to one of these dipoles. For every check size used, the checkerboard-onset evoked potential could be described by a summation of the relative amplitudes of these components. Since the relative amplitude versus check size curves showed a different behavior for each source, they provided evidence of functionally distinct cortical generators. The strength of the striate source was especially sensitive to the fine structure of a pattern, whereas the extrastriate sources contributed mainly for coarse pattern elements.
Stimulus-specific fast oscillations at zero phase between visual areas V1 and V2 of awake monkey.	Synchronization of fast cortical oscillations (35-90 Hz) has been proposed as a basis of sensory integration. This hypothesis requires stimulus specific oscillations that occur synchronously in different cortical areas of awake animals. Here, we demonstrate the presence of, and phase-locking between, high amplitude stimulus specific oscillations (50-90 Hz) in striate (V1) and extra striate (V2) visual cortex of an awake monkey. Oscillations of multiple unit spikes and local field potentials occurred with an average V1-V2 phase difference near zero. This finding was unexpected because V1 and V2 are thought to be serially arranged in the primate's visual processing stream. However, near zero-phase synchronization among cortical areas might enable fast and effective communication via the many reciprocal cortico-cortical connections for processes such as sensory integration.
Collator units: second-stage orientational filters.	Which parts of an image belong to the other parts? This has become known as the 'binding problem' and is almost as resistant to explanation now as it was over half a century ago, when the purely descriptive Gestalt rule of 'good continuation' and the like were formulated. The specific case of interest here is that of spatially sampled fragments of a continuous but partly occluded line. First-stage orientated visual filters with relatively small receptive fields (such as simple cells) make precise but essentially local measurements of the orientational properties of line fragments within their spatial domain. I suggest that these units act as 'tributary units', their outputs becoming the inputs to 'collator units', which are second-stage oriented filters whose function is to put together the local descriptions of the spatially distributed line fragments. The functional receptive field of the collator units would be the spatial sum of the receptive fields of the tributary units. If the tributary units all have the same orientation preference and their fields are axially aligned end to end, the receptive field of the corresponding collator unit would have the same orientation preference and width as its tributary units, but would be considerably longer. Psychophysical data are presented which are consistent with this model.
Implications of motion detection for early non-linearities.	Analysis of motion may be accomplished using the spatiotemporal variations produced when a spatially varying luminance waveform moves across linear receptive fields. Moving contrast-modulated patterns which consist of coarse-scale spatial variations in the contrast of fine-scale luminance patterns cannot be analysed in this way. The human visual system can analyse the motion of contrast-modulated patterns and this suggests it may contain mechanisms that use non-linear transformations. Non-linear transformation of contrast-modulated patterns would give rise to a component (a distortion product) that varies on the same spatial scale as the contrast variation; this can be analysed to extract motion. Is the non-linearity simply an inherent part of the transduction process or is it a characteristic of a mechanism specialized for the analysis of the motion of such patterns? Comparisons of the spatial and temporal limitations of motion discrimination using luminance and contrast-modulated patterns suggest that the mechanisms which analyse the two types of patterns are different, although recent physiological evidence suggests that they may have common elements.
Full-wave and half-wave processes in second-order motion and texture.	A theory of human second-order motion perception is proposed and further applied to the discrimination of texture slant. The computational algorithms for deriving the direction of left-right motion from a sequence of images are equivalent to the algorithms for deriving the direction of slant (e.g. from top left to bottom right or top right to bottom left) in a single 2D image. There is a broad range of phenomena for which Fourier analysis of the image plus a few simple rules gives a good account of human perception. The problem with this first-order analysis is that there exists a broad class of 'microbalanced' stimuli in which the motion or slant is completely obvious to human subjects but is invisible to first-order analysis. Microbalanced stimuli require second-order analysis which consists of non-linear preprocessing (spatiotemporal filtering followed by rectification of the input signal) before standard motion or slant analysis. To determine whether the second-order rectification is half-wave or full-wave, we construct two special microbalanced stimulus types: 'half-wave stimuli' whose motion (or texture slant) is interpretable by a half-wave rectifying system but not by full-wave or a first-order (Fourier) analysis and 'full-wave stimuli' which are interpretable only after full-wave rectification. Such experiments show that second-order texture-slant perception utilizes both half-wave and full-wave processes, second-order motion-direction discrimination depends predominantly on full-wave rectification and second-order spatial interactions such as lateral contrast-contrast inhibition and second-order Mach bands are exclusively full-wave.
Non-linearities in texture segregation.	The existence of complex (non-Fourier, second-order) channels is suggested by some characteristics of segregation perceived between regions distinguished by visual texture. These complex channels consist of two linear-filtering stages separated by a rectification-type non-linearity. We have investigated (i) the spatial frequency selectivity and orientation selectivity of their first-stage filters; (ii) the relationship between the preferred values of orientation and spatial frequency at the first and second filters; (iii) spatial pooling and its implications for the non-linearity at the middle of the complex channel; and (iv) the dynamics of complex and simple linear channels. An intensive non-linearity is also necessary to explain perceived region segregation. This intensive non-linearity might arise from an early local non-linearity preceding the channels (perhaps retinal light adaptation) or from normalization among the channels themselves (perhaps due to intracortical inhibition). Deciding between these two candidates has been more difficult than we had hoped. It appears that: (i) this intensive non-linearity operates for both simple and complex channels; (ii) the effects on it of changing mean luminance or spatial scale may be accounted for by a sensitivity parameter; (iii) it can be dramatically compressive even at contrasts less than 25% for high mean luminances and large scales; and (iv) at even lower contrasts there is an accelerating non-linearity that acts before the second filter of the complex channels.
Linearity and non-linearity in cortical receptive fields.	Visual neurons in striate (V1) cortex have been studied as feature detectors or as spatiotemporal filters. A useful way to distinguish between these two conceptual approaches is by studying the way in which visual signals are pooled across space and time. Many neurons in layer IV of striate cortex exhibit linear spatial summation and their response time course is consistent with linear temporal summation. Neurons in supragranular and infragranular layers sum signals in a non-linear manner. A particularly important non-linearity seen in many cortical complex cells is non-linear summation along an axis parallel to their preferred orientation. This leads to responsiveness to 'illusory contours', borders defined by texture differences only. These and other results on non-linear summation of chromatic and achromatic signals imply that V1 cortex performs sophisticated and complex image processing and is not simply an array of spatiotemporal filters.
Non-linear dynamics of columns of cat visual cortex revealed by simulation and experiment.	Correlation images were derived from simultaneous recordings of 12 signals representing the synaptic activity at different layers of a column in cat visual cortex (area 18) and 12 signals representing the local average spiking activity at the same locations. Because the ongoing activity and the activity evoked by stroboscopic flashes yielded the same correlation image, ongoing activity is caused by an input to a column similar to flash-evoked activity and is thus not endogenous. Moving bar stimuli evoked bursts of oscillations (25-75 Hz band) in the correlation image. The rhythm of these oscillations was not related to any frequency component in the stimulus. In all correlation images we observed that synaptic activity in one layer resulted in simultaneous spiking activity in all layers with latency differences smaller than 2 ms (the sample interval used). Similar behaviour was observed in a simulation experiment where we 'realistically' modelled one column of visual cortex with 1000 three-compartmental neurons in 11 functional layers. When such a model column was tuned to yield a stable and excitable system with low ongoing activity, activation of any of the layers caused simultaneous activity in all 11 layers. Both the simulation and the experimental results suggest that a column can be regarded as a basic processing element sending the same information over all its outputs to other columns within the same cortical region, other visual areas and subcortical structures.
Envelope-responsive neurons in areas 17 and 18 of cat.	1. Single cortical neurons are known to respond to visual stimuli containing Fourier components only in a narrow range of spatial frequencies. This investigation demonstrates that some neurons in cat area 17 and 18 can also respond to certain stimuli that have no Fourier components inside the cell's luminance spatial frequency passband. 2. To study such "non-Fourier" responses, we used envelope stimuli that consisted of a high-spatial-frequency sinusoidal luminance grating (carrier) whose contrast was modulated by a low-spatial frequency sine wave (envelope). There was no Fourier component at the apparent periodicity of the envelope spatial frequency. However, some cells responded to such a "phantom" component of the envelope modulation when it fell inside the cell's luminance spatial frequency passband while all the real Fourier components in the stimuli were outside. 3. We conducted extensive control experiments to eliminate the possibility of producing artifactual responses to the envelope stimuli due to any small residual nonlinearity of the z-linearized CRT screen. The control experiments included 1) testing of screen linearity to ensure that the effect from the residual screen nonlinearity was no larger than the sensitivity level of visual responses and 2) comparing the responses to envelope stimuli with the responses to the equivalent contrast of the artifact produced by the screen nonlinearity. All these control experiments indicated that any effect of screen nonlinearity did not contribute significantly to the neural envelope responses. 4. We performed a statistical analysis to obtain an index of relative strength of envelope responses for each cell and to objectively classify cells as "envelope-responsive" or "non-envelope-responsive."(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Population encoding of spatial frequency, orientation, and color in macaque V1.	1. We recorded local field potentials in the parafoveal representation in the primary visual cortex of anesthetized and paralyzed macaque monkeys with a multicontact electrode that provided for sampling of neural activity at 16 sites along a vertical penetration. Differential recordings at adjacent contacts were transformed into an estimate of current source density (CSD), to provide a measure of local neural activity. 2. We used m-sequence stimuli to map the region of visual space that provided input to the recording site. The local field potential recorded in macaque V1 has a population receptive field (PRF) size of approximately 2 deg2. 3. We assessed spatial tuning by the responses to two-dimensional Gaussian noise, spatially filtered to retain power only within one octave. Responses to achromatic band-limited noise stimuli revealed a prominent band-pass spatial tuning in the upper layers, but a more low-pass spatial tuning in lower layers. 4. We assessed orientation tuning by the responses to band-limited noise whose spectrum was further restricted to lie within 45 degrees wedges. The local field potential showed evidence of orientation tuning at most sites. Orientation tuning in upper and lower layers was manifest by systematic variations not only in response size but also in response dynamics. 5. We assessed chromatic tuning by the responses to isotropic band-limited noise modulated in a variety of directions in tristimulus space. Some lower-layer locations showed a nulling of response under near-isoluminant conditions. However, response dynamics in upper and lower layers depended not only on luminance contrast, but also on chromatic inputs. 6. Responses to near-isoluminant stimuli and to low-contrast luminance modulation were shifted to lower spatial frequencies. 7. We determined the extent to which various temporal frequencies in the response conveyed information concerning spatial frequency, orientation, and color under the steady-state conditions used in these studies. In each case, information is distributed in the response dynamics across a broad temporal frequency range, beginning at 4 Hz (the lowest frequency used). For spatial frequency the information rate remains significant up to at least 25 Hz. For orientation tuning and chromatic tuning, the information rate is lower overall and remains significant up to 13 Hz. In contrast, for texture discrimination, information is shifted to lower temporal frequencies.
Insights into the different exploits of colour in the visual cortex.	A new method that allows controlled masking of luminance contrast has been developed to study the use of chromatic signals in human vision. The method also makes it possible to examine the different uses of chromatic signals (e.g. the generation of perceived colour, or the construction and representation of object structure and form). By using this technique, we studied the threshold detection of chromatic signals in normal trichromats. The results show that chromatic signals are virtually unaffected by ongoing, randomly varying, luminance contrast changes. These findings suggest that chromatic signals are either processed independently or can be separated completely from any confounding luminance contrast components in the stimulus. Thresholds for detection of colour changes only, and for extraction of stimulus structure from chromatic signals in normal trichromats, in subjects with single cone receptor deficiency (i.e. dichromats) and in three subjects with abnormal colour vision caused by bilateral damage to ventromedial, extra-striate visual cortex (i.e. subjects with cerebral achromatopsia) have also been measured. No significant difference in thresholds for the two conditions was observed either in normal trichromats or in dichromats. Subjects with cerebral achromatopsia, however, reveal markedly different thresholds. The results suggest that chromatic signals are processed independently to generate perceived object colour or to construct spatially structured objects, and that these functions involve different neural substrates. The results help to explain, at least in part, why cerebral achromatopsia is a heterogeneous disorder, and why there can be significant differences in the effective use of chromatic signals in subjects described as cerebral achromatopsics.
Visual evoked potentials in response to flashes in the cat cortex.	A model is presented of visually evoked potentials (VEPs) in the cerebral cortex of cats after binocular stimulation by means of flashes. The VEPs consist of four components: P1, N1, P2 and N2 which appear during the first 100 ms after the stimulation is produced. This model has been found in all the animals used in the experiments and is repeated with small variations at almost all the recording points. After studying the data obtained, a hypothesis is put forward for the possible origin of the four components in the primary visual area.
Cortical area in the rat that mediates visual pattern discrimination.	In Experiment I, bilateral ablations of the caudolateral cortex involving Krieg's area 36 impaired discrimination of visual patterns but not delayed alternation. In Experiment II, the same type of lesions retarded postoperative learning to discriminate embedded visual patterns. In rats from the Experiment II tracers of axonal transport gave no signs of damage of the connections of the primary visual cortex. In agreement with this, Nissl stain of the dorsal lateral geniculate nuclei showed no neuronal loss or gliosis. These results suggest that caudo-lateral cortex in rats corresponds to the inferotemporal cortex of primates.
Distributed motor processing in cerebral cortex.	Responding to a visual cue requires processing throughout many areas in the brain. The anatomical pathways connecting these diffuse areas are numerous. One way to study the cognitive processing associated with volitional movement is to identify common physiological properties in each area. Recently, the discovery that neuronal activity is broadly tuned in many of these cortical areas has led to new insights into the physiological structure of the process underlying cognition in this distributed system.
Velocity invariance of preferred axis of motion for single spot stimuli in simple cells of cat striate cortex.	Directional tuning for motion of a long bar and a spot was compared quantitatively over a wide range of velocities in 23 simple cells of cat striate cortex whose "on" and "off" receptive field subregions had been mapped with optimally oriented, stationary flash-presented bars. Tuning curves were derived using stimuli whose polarity of contrast was appropriate for the dominant receptive field subregion of each cell (i.e. light stimuli for on-subregions and dark stimuli for off-subregions); stimulus sweep was centred accurately on the centre of that subregion. Bar stimuli were of optimal width, and spot diameter was equal to the width of the bars. In all simple cells, preferred axis of motion for a long bar was invariant with velocity, being orthogonal to preferred orientation, as assessed with a stationary flash-presented bar. In 20 of 23 simple cells, preferred axis for spot motion was approximately orthogonal to that for bar motion (i.e., parallel to preferred orientation) at all velocities tested, including those just above threshold for spot stimuli. However, tuning for the spot became sharper as velocity was increased, due to an increase in response to the spot moving along the preferred axis and a decrease in response to spot motion along other axes, including the preferred axis for the bar. Both preferred and upper cut-off velocity were consistently higher for spot than for bar motion. The remaining 3 simple cells showed no response to spot motion at any velocity, and their preferred axis of motion for the shortest bar which evoked a consistent response was the same as the long bar.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Interocular transfer of expansion, rotation, and translation motion aftereffects.	The motion aftereffect demonstrates the existence of direction-selective mechanisms in the visual system. However, direction-selective cells exist within many visual areas, including V1 and MT/V5. Can motion aftereffects be generated within each of these areas? In visual cortical areas beyond V1 almost all cells are binocular, whereas a smaller percentage are binocular in V1. The degree of binocularity can be revealed psychophysically by assessing interocular transfer. Interocular transfer of motion aftereffects generated from expanding rotating, and translating dynamic random-dot patterns were therefore compared, since these stimuli should activate cells in higher visual areas selectively. Partial interocular transfer was found that was greater for expansion and rotation than for translation. The results support the involvement of higher visual areas in motion aftereffects to complex animation sequences.
Rhythmic slow waves of lateral geniculate nucleus in the cat: relation to vigilance.	Rhythmic slow waves (RSWs) of 3.2-4.5 (mean 3.8) Hz occurred in the lateral geniculate nucleus of the cats; most frequently during slow wave sleep, less frequently during paradoxical sleep and drowsiness, and only occasionally during quiet wakefulness. It was not observed during attentive wakefulness. The amplitude of RSWs was 0.1 mV or less and could be differentiated easily from PGO waves and sleep spindles. Hippocampal theta waves, when they appeared together, did not show a consistent phase relationship with the RSWs. Similar bursts of waves showing a good synchronization with the geniculate RSWs were also recorded from the visual cortex. This suggests the presence of a pace maker which is active in a state-dependent manner and may synchronously modulate the activity of different sites in the visual system.
Comparison of P100 and P300 cortical potentials in spatial frequency discrimination.	The P300 cortical evoked potential was compared to the P100 wave of the visual evoked potential by means of appearance/disappearance gratings. The spatial frequency of the novel stimulus was varied to compare the effect of task sensory difficulty on both P100 and P300 potentials. The P100 showed a steady increase in latency with the spatial frequency of the uncommon stimulus, and a degree of amplitude tuning consistent with the contrast sensitivity function. The P300 showed marked changes in both amplitude and latency dependent almost wholly on the proximity of the uncommon stimulus spatial frequency to that of the common stimulus. Motor reaction time showed elements of both the P100 and P300 response patterns. The results are consistent with a model in which, after visual information arrives at the visual cortex, processing is parallel and interdependent. In this model, the amplitude and latency of the P100 cortical evoked potential are governed solely by properties intrinsic to the stimulus, whereas the amplitude and latency of the P300 are functions of the degree of stimulus mismatch.
Stimulus orientation and contrast constancy.	The human visual system requires less contrast to detect patterns oriented vertically or horizontally than those oriented obliquely. We investigated whether this orientational anisotropy persists at suprathreshold contrasts. Using a contrast-matching technique, we found that it disappears at contrasts just above threshold, given the stimulus conditions employed. These results suggest that a neural mechanism, at suprathreshold, adjusts the gain of orientational subsystems to compensate for the lower sensitivity of the visual system to oblique patterns. A similar suprathreshold effect, referred to as contrast constancy, has been observed in studies employing grating patterns varying in spatial and temporal frequency. We argue, based on previous electrophysiological findings, that this neural compensation results from antagonism between excitatory and inhibitory processes in the visual cortex.
Glial cell functions and activity-dependent plasticity of the mammalian visual cortex.	The presence of highly ordered connectivities is one basic characteristic of the central nervous systems and is believed to be a prerequisite for its proper function. The elaboration of precise, topographic projections has been shown to include two subsequent steps: (1) The formation of exuberant projections with limited topographic accuracy, and (2) the activity-dependent refinement of the appropriate connectivities by synapse elimination and synapse stabilization. Although most current theories on the mechanisms underlying activity-dependent developmental plasticity focus on adaptive changes of the efficacy of synaptic transmission, the present overview deals with possible mechanisms underlying morphologic adaptations in the developing central nervous system. Especially the contribution of glial cells in the activity-dependent selection of neuronal projections in the thalamocortical visual system of higher mammals is elaborated and a unifying hypothesis on the involvement of nonneuronal cells in neuronal plasticity is formulated on the basis of the current knowledge on glial physiology and specific experimental data.
Magnocellular and parvocellular contributions to the responses of neurons in macaque striate cortex.	Anatomical and physiological studies of the primate visual system have suggested that the signals relayed by the magnocellular and parvocellular subdivisions of the LGN remain segregated in visual cortex. It has been suggested that this segregation may account for the known differences in visual function between the parietal and temporal cortical processing streams in extrastriate visual cortex. To test directly the hypothesis that the temporal stream of processing receives predominantly parvocellular signals, we recorded visual responses from the superficial layers of V1 (striate cortex), which give rise to the temporal stream, while selectively inactivating either the magnocellular or parvocellular subdivisions of the LGN. Inactivation of the parvocellular subdivision reduced neuronal responses in the superficial layers of V1, but the effects of magnocellular blocks were generally as pronounced or slightly stronger. Individual neurons were found to receive contributions from both pathways. We furthermore found no evidence that magnocellular contributions were restricted to either the cytochrome oxidase blobs or interblobs in V1. Instead, magnocellular signals made substantial contributions to responses throughout the superficial layers. Thus, the regions within V1 that constitute the early stages of the temporal processing stream do not appear to contain isolated parvocellular signals. These results argue against a direct mapping of the subcortical magnocellular and parvocellular pathways onto the parietal and temporal streams of processing in cortex.
Neural correlates of attentive selection for color or luminance in extrastriate area V4.	Rhesus monkeys were trained on a conditional orientation discrimination task in order to assess whether attentive selection for a color or luminance stimulus feature would affect visual processing in extrastriate area V4. The task required monkeys to select a bar stimulus based on its color or luminance and then to discriminate the angular tilt of the selected stimulus. The majority of neurons (74%) were selectively activated when the color or luminance of the stimulus in the receptive field matched the color or luminance of the cue. The activity was attenuated when there was not a match between the stimulus and the cue. The differential activation was based on the presence or absence of the stimulus feature and was independent of spatial location. Across the population of V4 neurons, optimal stimuli that matched the selected color or luminance elicited about twice the activity as stimuli that did not match the selected feature. The feature-selective changes in activity were observed to develop beginning about 200 msec after the stimulus onset and were maintained over the remainder of the behavioral trial. In this task the activity of V4 neurons reflected a selection based on the cued feature and not simply the physical color or luminance of the receptive field stimulus. Under these conditions, the topographic representation of the neural activity in area V4 highlights the potential targets in the visual scene at the expense of background objects. These observations offer a physiological counterpart to psychophysical studies suggesting that stimuli can be preferentially selected in parallel across the visual field on the basis of a unique color or luminance feature.
Neural correlates of feature selective memory and pop-out in extrastriate area V4.	Neural activity in area V4 was examined to assess (1) whether the effects of attentive selection for stimulus features could be based on the memory of the feature, (2) whether dynamically changing the feature selection would cause activity associated with the newly selected stimuli to pop out, and (3) whether intrusion of more than one stimulus into the receptive field would disrupt the feature-selective activity. Rhesus monkeys were trained on several variations of a conditional orientation discrimination task. A differential activation of area V4 neurons was observed in the conditional discrimination task based on the presence of a match or a nonmatch between the conditional cue (a particular color or luminance) and the color or luminance of the receptive field stimulus. The differential activation was unchanged when the cue was removed and the animal had to remember its color (or luminance) to perform the task. When the cued feature was switched from one alternative to another in the middle of a trial the differential activation of neurons reversed over the course of 150-300 msec. If the stimulus in the receptive field contained the newly selected feature, V4 neurons became activated without a concomitant change in the stimulus in classical receptive field. Across the topographic map of V4 the activity associated with the newly selected stimuli popped out, whereas the activity of deselected stimuli faded to the background levels of other background objects. Evidence of a suppressive input from stimuli outside the classical receptive field was clear in only 3 of 24 neurons examined. Intrusion into the classical receptive field by a second stimulus resulted in a diminished difference between matching and nonmatching conditions. These physiological data suggest a major role for attentional control in the parallel processing of simple feature-selective differences.
Interocular control of neuronal responsiveness in cat visual cortex.	Neurons in the cat primary visual cortex are selective for particular contour orientations but their responsiveness can vary under certain conditions. After prolonged stimulation (adaptation), the contrast sensitivity of cortical cells is reduced and the 'gain' (the strength of response as a function of contrast) falls. The response to an optimal contour is also reduced when a different stimulus is superimposed on the receptive field in the same eye. Here we report that the sudden appearance of an inappropriate stimulus in one eye can interocularly suppress the activity of cortical neurons if they are already responding to an optimally oriented stimulus in the other eye. In strabismic cats, whose cortical neurons lack binocular facilitation, even contours of similar orientation shown to the two eyes trigger such suppression. This interocular control of cortical responsiveness could serve to veto signals from one eye under conditions that would otherwise cause double vision and perceptual confusion.
Reversible inactivation of visual processing operations in middle suprasylvian cortex of the behaving cat.	Extrastriate visual areas on the banks of the middle suprasylvian sulcus were inactivated by cooling to assess the behavioral contribution of this cortical region to the extraction of a stationary figure from a moving mask. Cooling blocked figure-ground separation when the mask was moving but had no influence when the mask was static. This difference provides strong evidence that the areas bounding the middle suprasylvian sulcus contribute to the neural separation of stationary from moving visual stimuli.
Hemispheric asymmetry in the maturation of the extrastriate checkerboard onset evoked potential.	Recently we have shown that the single positive deflection in the checkerboard onset evoked potential (EP) of young children of striate origin develops into a negative-positive complex. However, also an early positive peak becomes apparent in the checkerboard onset EP. To determine the origin and development of the activity underlying this early positive deflection we studied the checkerboard onset EPs in children of 9-16 years of age. It was found that for the children in this age group two different dipole sources are responsible for the activity underlying the pattern onset EP. One of the dipoles corresponds to the activity generated in the striate cortex, whereas a second dipole of extrastriate origin is responsible for the appearance of the early positive deflection. This extrastriate activity shows hemispheric asymmetry, i.e. the strength of the right hemispheric extrastriate source exceeds the strength of the left hemispheric source. These results are in accordance with histological studies of Conel (1939-1963) [The postnatal development of the human cerebral cortex (Vols 1-8). Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard Univ. Press] which show that the maturation of the extrastriate areas of the left hemisphere is delayed with respect to the right hemisphere.
On the role of X and simple cells in human contrast processing.	We investigated the potential role of retinal X and cortical simple cells in determining human psychophysical detection performance under contrast masking conditions. Since both X and simple cells exhibit a null phase, the phase of a background mask should affect the visibility of a test grating processed by such cells. Sinusoidal test gratings of either 1 or 7 c/deg were presented as a sustained or transient increment against a background mask of the same size and spatial frequency at either 0 or 90 deg phase. For background contrasts from 0.5% up to 40%, psychophysical contrast sensitivity was phase-independent for all conditions. Therefore, either (1) contrast threshold is mediated by cells with non-linear spatial summation properties, such as Y or complex cells, or (2) the masking effect of the background occurs after a phase-insensitive combination or pooling of simple cell responses in the cortex.
Organization of contour from motion processing in primate visual cortex.	A major objective of visual processing is the segmentation of the scene into separate objects. Relative motion is one of the most salient segmentation cues. In man and monkey, we recorded visually evoked potentials to a stimulus, designed to signal the presence of relative motion processing. Relative motion specific response components were only elicited when human observers perceive contours from relative motion. Equivalent dipole source localization of the responses indicated the involvement of primary visual cortex in man. This was corroborated by intracortical recordings in awake monkey, where sources of the specific components are located within the supra- and infragranular layers of primary visual cortex. It is concluded that V1 does not merely provide an input stage to contour from motion processing, but that segmentation information, based on relative motion, is present at this early cortical level.
Cortical dynamics of feature binding and reset: control of visual persistence.	An analysis of the reset of visual cortical circuits responsible for the binding or segmentation of visual features into coherent visual forms yields a model that explains properties of visual persistence. The reset mechanisms prevent massive smearing of visual percepts in response to rapidly moving images. The model simulates relationships among psychophysical data showing inverse relations of persistence to flash luminance and duration, greater persistence of illusory contours than real contours, a U-shaped temporal function for persistence of illusory contours, a reduction of persistence due to adaptation with a stimulus of like orientation, an increase of persistence with spatial separation of a masking stimulus. The model suggests that a combination of habituative, opponent, and endstopping mechanisms prevent smearing and limit persistence. Earlier work with the model has analyzed data about boundary formation, texture segregation, shape-from-shading, and figure-ground separation. Thus, several types of data support each model mechanism and new predictions are made.
Laminar pattern of synaptic activity in rat primary visual cortex: comparison of in vivo and in vitro studies employing the current source density analysis.	In the present study we employed current source density analysis to study the major excitatory/inhibitory pathways in rat primary visual cortex in vivo and in vitro. A natural photic stimulus was used in vivo and served as a baseline for understanding the results obtained from in vivo and in vitro studies employing electrical stimulation of the white matter. The temporal pattern of synaptic activity in the cortex revealed an early excitation, characterized by sinks of short duration and high amplitude, that was followed by inhibition, characterized by long lasting, low amplitude active sources. The spatial pattern of this synaptic activity displayed early excitatory inputs to layer IV and lower layer III. Supragranular layers exhibited synaptic activity of longer latency at more superficial layers. The excitatory activity of the infragranular layers was delayed relative to that in layer IV. This spatial and temporal pattern of synaptic activity supports the model of sequential information processing in visual cortex. Based on the results of electrical and photic stimulations in vivo we conclude that electrical stimulation of white matter activate the thalamo-cortical input which results in a similar laminar pattern of postsynaptic activity evoked by photic stimulation. Electrical stimulation revealed additional antidromic and anti-orthodromic activity (collaterals of descending axons to white matter), resulting in the early fast components and the additional activity in layer VI. The major differences between in vivo and in vitro laminar pattern of synaptic activity (applying electrical stimulation) were reduced synaptic activity in layer IV and increased synaptic activity in the infragranular layers in the in vitro preparation. We concluded that the visual cortex slice preparation preserves the major pathways and electrophysiological function of this area. The technical advantages of the cortical slice preparation will facilitate studies and provide additional insight into this complex cortical network.
Optimizing recording capabilities of the Utah Intracortical Electrode Array.	The Utah Intracortical Electrode Array is a unique silicon-based monolithic structure designed for use as a multichannel interface to the central nervous system. In this paper, we describe a series of acute experiments designed to determine the neural recording capabilities of this electrode array and the dependence of the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) of the recordings on the electrode surface area (length of metallized tip). We found that both separable unit and multiunit cluster responses could be recorded. Additionally, high SNR recordings could be achieved for some electrodes (with electrode tip lengths of 30-220 microns), while recordings with signals substantially greater than the noise could be made from most of the electrodes provided that the proper electrode surface area was used. The demonstrated recording capabilities of the Utah Intracortical Electrode Array and its unique three-dimensional structure should form the basis for innovative physiological investigations into the functional organization of the cortex as well as for long term neuroprosthesis development.
Cortical point-spread function and long-range lateral interactions revealed by real-time optical imaging of macaque monkey primary visual cortex.	Processing of retinal images is carried out in the myriad dendritic arborizations of cortical neurons. Such processing involves complex dendritic integration of numerous inputs, and the subsequent output is transmitted to multiple targets by extensive axonal arbors. Thus far, details of this intricate processing remained unexaminable. This report describes the usefulness of real-time optical imaging in the study of population activity and the exploration of cortical dendritic processing. In contrast to single-unit recordings, optical signals primarily measure the changes in transmembrane potential of a population of neuronal elements, including the often elusive subthreshold synaptic potentials that impinge on the extensive arborization of cortical cells. By using small visual stimuli with sharp borders and real-time imaging of cortical responses, we found that shortly after its onset, cortical activity spreads from its retinotopic site of initiation, covering an area at least 10 times larger, in upper cortical layers. The activity spreads at velocities from 100 to 250 microns/msec. Near the V1/V2 border the direct activation is anisotropic and we detected also anisotropic spread; the "space constant" for the spread was approximately 2.7 mm parallel to the border and approximately 1.5 mm along the perpendicular axis. In addition, we found cortical interactions between cortical activities evoked by a small "center stimulus" and by large "surround stimuli" positioned outside the classical receptive field. All of the surround stimuli used suppressed the cortical response to the center stimulus. Under some stimulus conditions iso-orientation suppression was more pronounced than orthogonal-orientation suppression. The orientation dependence of the suppression and its dependency on the size of some specific stimuli indicate that at least part of the center surround inhibitory interaction was of cortical origin. This findings reported here raise the possibility that distributed processing over a very large cortical area plays a major role in the processing of visual information by the primary visual cortex of the primate.
Power spectrum analysis of bursting cells in area MT in the behaving monkey.	It is widely held that visual cortical neurons encode information primarily in their mean firing rates. Some proposals, however, emphasize the information potentially available in the temporal structure of spike trains (Optican and Richmond, 1987; Bialek et al., 1991), in particular with respect to stimulus-related synchronized oscillations in the 30-70 Hz range (Eckhorn et al., 1988; Gray et al., 1989; Kreiter and Singer, 1992) as well as via bursting cells (Cattaneo et al., 1981a; Bonds, 1992). We investigate the temporal fine structure of spike trains recorded in extrastriate area MT of the trained macaque monkey, a region that plays a major role in processing motion information. The data were recorded while the monkey performed a near-threshold direction discrimination task so that both physiological and psychophysical data could be obtained on the same set of trials (Britten et al., 1992). We identify bursting cells and quantify their properties, in particular in relation to the behavior of the animal. We compute the power spectrum and the distribution of interspike intervals (ISIs) associated with individual spike trains from 212 cells, averaging these quantities across similar trials. (1) About 33% of the cells have a relatively flat power spectrum with a dip at low temporal frequencies. We analytically derive the power spectrum of a Poisson process with refractory period and show that it matches the observed spectrum of these cells. (2) About 62% of the cells have a peak in the 20-60 Hz frequency band. In about 10% of all cells, this peak is at least twice the height of its base. The presence of such a peak strongly correlates with a tendency of the cell to respond in bursts, that is, two to four spikes within 2-8 msec. For 93% of cells, the shape of the power spectrum did not change dramatically with stimulus conditions. (3) Both the ISI distribution and the power spectrum of the vast majority of bursting cells are compatible with the notion that these cells fire Poisson-distributed bursts, with a burst-related refractory period. Thus, for our stimulus conditions, no explicitly oscillating neuronal process is required to yield a peak in the power spectrum. (4) We found no statistically significant relationship between the peak in the power spectrum and psychophysical measures of the monkeys' performance on the direction discrimination task.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Bilateral retrobulbar neuritis following unilateral herpes zoster ophthalmicus.	A 48-year-old male diagnosed with right-onset herpes zoster ophthalmicus developed visual acuity loss in the left eye during the following 3 weeks. Visually evoked cortical potential recordings revealed a marked increase in P100 latency and a marked decrease in its amplitude in both eyes. Pattern electroretinography suggested diffuse pathology with reduced positive and negative components. A possible transsynaptic or intraneural spread of the varicella-zoster virus in the optic nerve might be responsible for this unexplained contralateral loss of visual acuity.
Long-range dichoptic interactions in the human visual cortex in the region corresponding to the blind spot.	The region of the visual field of one eye that corresponds to the blind spot of the contralateral eye is believed to be monocular. We measured dichoptic contour interaction in this region of the visual field in humans by having observers report the orientation of a test letter "T" presented to this region, in the presence of flanking T's presented around the blind spot of the fellow eye. A large drop in performance was seen because of the flanks, showing clearly the existence of dichoptic contour interaction in this "monocular" region of the visual field. This suggests that the cortical representation of the region of the visual field that corresponds to the contralateral eye's blind spot is not strictly monocular. The absence of direct retinal afferents from one eye to this region of cortex suggests the involvement of horizontal cortical connections in the contour interaction phenomenon. Our estimates of the extent of contour interaction in mm of striate cortex are comparable to the reported lengths of the long-range horizontal connections in the striate cortex of monkeys. Our results are consistent with the proposition that long-range horizontal connections of the striate cortex may mediate the contour interaction phenomenon.
The electrophysiological basis of colour processing in macaques with V4 lesions.	Monkeys with lesions of visual area V4 have deficits in colour constancy, but are able to discriminate hues and segment the spectrum in a categorical manner. To investigate the nature of the processing mechanisms subserving the spared functions we recorded occipital visual evoked potentials (VEPs) of normal monkeys and monkeys with bilateral lesions of area V4. The stimuli used to elicit the potentials were chromatic and achromatic gratings of low spatial frequency. The waveforms from the two groups of animals were similar in all respects. VEPs for the onset of a chromatic grating were negative-going, indicative of the activity of sustained units, as opposed to those elicited by offset or reversal of the grating which were positive-going. The amplitude of the chromatic, 12.5 Hz reversal VEP went through a minimum at isoluminance, in accord with low temporal resolution of colour processing. The VEP waveforms were identical in character from three weeks to approximately four years post-operatively. These data indicate that chromatic processing in areas V1 and V2 is normal after V4 lesions and, together with the behavioural evidence, that these areas are sufficient for some basic aspects of colour perception.
Binding by temporal structure in multiple feature domains of an oscillatory neuronal network.	An important step in visual processing is the segregation of objects in a visual scene from one another and from the embedding background. According to current theories of visual neuroscience, the different features of a particular object are represented by cells which are spatially distributed across multiple visual areas in the brain. The segregation of an object therefore requires the unique identification and integration of the pertaining cells which have to be "bound" into one assembly coding for the object in question. Several authors have suggested that such a binding of cells could be achieved by the selective synchronization of temporally structured responses of the neurons activated by features of the same stimulus. This concept has recently gained support by the observation of stimulus-dependent oscillatory activity in the visual system of the cat, pigeon and monkey. Furthermore, experimental evidence has been found for the formation and segregation of synchronously active cell assemblies representing different stimuli in the visual field. In this study, we investigate temporally structured activity in networks with single and multiple feature domains. As a first step, we examine the formation and segregation of cell assemblies by synchronizing and desynchronizing connections within a single feature module. We then demonstrate that distributed assemblies can be appropriately bound in a network comprising three modules selective for stimulus disparity, orientation and colour, respectively. In this context, we address the principal problem of segregating assemblies representing spatially overlapping stimuli in a distributed architecture. Using synchronizing as well as desynchronizing mechanisms, our simulations demonstrate that the binding problem can be solved by temporally correlated responses of cells which are distributed across multiple feature modules.
Influence of Long-Term Stimulation on Pattern-Reversal Visual Evoked Cortical Potentials]	In 20 subjects, we recorded the pattern-reversal visual evoked cortical potential (VECP) over a period of 30 min. We could not find any remarkable alterations of the peak times, they were unchanged over the time. During the first 10 min, the amplitudes showed a clear tendency to decrease if one evaluated the averaging value of the whole group. After this time, there were no significant changes. But we learned a quite different behavior of amplitudes evaluating the record of each subject. We found 5 types of different behavioral modulated responses. The problems of long-term investigation are sophisticated and need further investigation to learn which different factors have an impact on VECP. From a clinical point of view, a long-term investigation shows no relevant potential alterations.
The isolated and perfused brain of the guinea-pig in vitro.	We describe here an isolated and perfused in vitro adult guinea-pig whole brain preparation which is an extension of the previously described in vitro brainstem-cerebellum preparation. Viability was tested by the analysis of trans-synaptic responses along the visual pathways following the electrical stimulation of the optic nerve or the optic radiations. The evoked field potentials were recorded in the dorsal lateral geniculate, the superior colliculus and the visual cortex. The distribution of extracellular currents was studied using current source density analysis, in order to determine the amplitude, time course and spatial organization of the synaptic activity at these sites. The study indicates that field potentials were very similar to those described in vivo. These data demonstrate the survival of a complex adult sensory system in vitro and suggest that this preparation can be used for the analysis of multisynaptic circuits in the mammalian brain.
Dynamics of orientation tuning in the cat striate cortex neurons.	Dynamics of orientation tuning was studied by a flashing light bar in 233 single units of cat primary visual cortex. Orientation tuning was plotted by the criterion of spike number in successive fragments of responses with a step of 10 or 20 ms. Preferred orientation and the width of orientation tuning were measured for each of such curves. It was found that successive dynamic change of preferred orientation during response was typical for 63% of units under study, while such change of orientation tuning width was typical for 93%. Neurons with or without shift in preferred orientation differed in their response characteristics: latency and duration of discharge, its frequency and response rise time, as well as quality of orientation tuning. Possible functional significance of two groups of cortical units, "scanners" (with systematic preferred orientation shift) and "timers" (without it), is discussed in accordance with the idea of spatiotemporal orientation coding in the primary visual cortex.
Conscious visual perception without V1.	We used the technique of PET to determine whether visual signals reach visual area V5, specialized for visual motion, when a human patient, blinded by a lesion in area V1, discriminates the direction of motion of visual stimuli and shows, through his verbal reports, that he is consciously aware of both the nature of the visual stimulus and its direction of motion. The results showed that area V5 was active without a parallel activation of area V1, implying that the visual input can reach V5 without passing first through V1 and that such an input is sufficient for both the discrimination and the conscious awareness of the visual stimulus.
Modeling simple-cell direction selectivity with normalized, half-squared, linear operators.	1. A longstanding view of simple cells is that they sum their inputs linearly. However, the linear model falls short of a complete account of simple-cell direction selectivity. We have developed a nonlinear model of simple-cell responses (hereafter referred to as the normalization model) to explain a larger body of physiological data. 2. The normalization model consists of an underlying linear stage along with two additional nonlinear stages. The first is a half-squaring nonlinearity; half-squaring is half-wave rectification followed by squaring. The second is a divisive normalization non-linearity in which each model cell is suppressed by the pooled activity of a large number of cells. 3. By comparing responses with counterphase (flickering) gratings and drifting gratings, researchers have demonstrated that there is a nonlinear contribution to simple-cell responses. Specifically they found 1) that the linear prediction from counterphase grating responses underestimates a direction index computed from drifting grating responses, 2) that the linear prediction correctly estimates responses to gratings drifting in the preferred direction, and 3) that the linear prediction overestimates responses to gratings drifting in the nonpreferred direction. 4. We have simulated model cell responses and derived mathematical expressions to demonstrate that the normalization model accounts for this empirical data. Specifically the model behaves as follows. 1) The linear prediction from counterphase data underestimates the direction index computed from drifting grating responses. 2) The linear prediction from counterphase data overestimates the response to gratings drifting in the nonpreferred direction. The discrepancy between the linear prediction and the actual response is greater when using higher contrast stimuli. 3) For an appropriate choice of contrast, the linear prediction from counterphase data correctly estimates the response to gratings drifting in the preferred direction. For higher contrasts the linear prediction overestimates the actual response, and for lower contrasts the linear prediction underestimates the actual response. 5. In addition, the normalization model is qualitatively consistent with data on the dynamics of simple-cell responses. Tolhurst et al. found that simple cells respond with an initial transient burst of activity when a stimulus first appears. The normalization model behaves similarly; it takes some time after a stimulus first appears before the model cells are fully normalized. We derived the dynamics of the model and found that the transient burst of activity in model cells depends in a particular way on stimulus contrast. The burst is short for high-contrast stimuli and longer for low-contrast stimuli.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The time course of direction-selective adaptation in simple and complex cells in cat striate cortex.	1. Responses of single cortical neurons in area 17 of anesthetized cats were recorded in response to prolonged stimulation with a patch of drifting square-wave grating. 2. During adaptation in the preferred direction, all neurons showed some reduction in response to motion in the stimulated direction and most showed some reduction in the opposite, nonstimulated direction. 3. For complex cells, the time course of response decrement in both the stimulated and nonstimulated directions was exponential, with an average time constant of 5 s. Response recovery was also exponential but significantly slower, with time constants of 8 and 13 s in the stimulated and nonstimulated directions, respectively. 4. For simple cells the dynamics of the adaptation effect depended on the direction of testing. In the nonstimulated direction the time course of the change in sensitivity was similar to that of complex cells. In the stimulated direction during both the adaptation and recovery periods, simple cells showed an initial rapid exponential change on the order of a few seconds that was followed by a more gradual exponential change. 5. During prolonged stimulation in the nonpreferred direction, there was less overall change in sensitivity. For some neurons the change in sensitivity during adaptation and recovery was exponential, with a short time constant for both simple and complex cells and for stimulated and nonstimulated directions. Other neurons showed no change in sensitivity in either direction and a few neurons showed facilitation during the adaptation period. 6. There appears to be a rapid general or nonspecific process, which may be related to contrast gain control, underlying motion adaptation in striate cortical neurons. An additional slow, direction-selective process is revealed when simple but not complex cells are stimulated in the preferred direction. We suggest that this latter type of adaptation is a key feature underlying the perceptual motion aftereffect.
Signal delay and input synchronization in passive dendritic structures.	1. A novel approach for analyzing transients in passive structures called "the method of moments" is introduced. It provides, as a special case, an analytic method for calculating the time delay and speed of propagation of electrical signals in any passive dendritic tree without the need for numerical simulations. 2. Total dendritic delay (TD) between two points (y, x) is defined as the difference between the centroid (the center of gravity) of the transient current input, I, at point y[tI(y)] and the centroid of the transient voltage response, V, at point x [tV(x)]. The TD measured at the input points is nonzero and is called the local delay (LD). Propagation delay, PD(y, x), is then defined as TD(y, x)--LD(y) whereas the net dendritic delay, NDD(y, 0), of an input point, y, is defined as TD(y, 0) - LD(0), where 0 is the target point, typically the soma. The signal velocity at a point x0 in the tree, theta(x0), is defined as [1/(dtv(x)/dx)[x = x0. 3. With the use of these definitions, several properties of dendritic delay exist. First, the delay between any two points in a given tree is independent of the properties (shape and duration) of the transient current input. Second, the velocity of the signal at any given point (y) in a given direction from (y) does not depend on the morphology of the tree "behind" the signal, and of the input location. Third, TD(y, x) = TD(x, y), for any two points, x, y. 4. Two additional properties are useful for efficiently calculating delays in arbitrary passive trees. 1) The subtrees connected at the ends of any dendritic segment can each be functionally lumped into an equivalent isopotential R-C compartment. 2) The local delay at any given point (y) in a tree is the mean of the local delays of the separate structures (subtrees) connected at y, weighted by the relative input conductance of the corresponding subtrees. 5. Because the definitions for delays utilize difference between centroids, the local delay and the total delay can be interpreted as measures for the time window in which synaptic inputs affect the voltage response at a target/decision point. Large LD or TD is closely associated with a relatively wide time window, whereas small LD or TD imply that inputs have to be well synchronized to affect the decision point. The net dendritic delay may be interpreted as the cost (in terms of delay) of moving a synapse away from the target point.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
An oscillation-based model for the neuronal basis of attention.	We propose a model for the neuronal implementation of selective visual attention based on the temporal structure of neuronal activity. In particular, we set out to explain the electrophysiological data from areas V4 and IT in monkey cortex of Moran and Desimone [(1985) Science, 229, 782-784] using the "temporal tagging" hypothesis of Crick and Koch [(1990a) Cold Spring Harbor Symposiums in Quantitative Biology, LV, 953-962; (1990b) Seminars in the neurosciences (pp. 1-36)]. Neurons in primary visual cortex respond to visual stimuli with a Poisson distributed spike train with an appropriate, stimulus-dependent mean firing rate. The firing rate of neurons whose receptive fields overlap with the "focus of attention" is modulated with a periodic function in the 40 Hz range, such that their mean firing rate is identical to the mean firing rate of neurons in "non-attended" areas. This modulation is detected by inhibitory interneurons in V4 and is used to suppress the response of V4 cells associated with non-attended visual stimuli. Using very simple single-cell models, we obtain quantitative agreement with Moran and Desimone's (1985) experiments.
Evolution of nervous systems and psychiatry: consequences of the vertical and horizontal duality of the evolutionary process.	Jacksonian views of brain evolution where new levels "add on" and become higher levels of integration "keeping down" the lower levels are examined. The hierarchical organization is contrasted with modern views of the evolution of nervous systems. These emphasize the "separation or factorization of different aspects of input into distinct processing channels, a factor which appears to be a generalized one in the evolution of brains and a necessary condition to adapt to a varying environment." The advantages of the latter view--vertical and horizontal development--for the interpretation of functional organization of nervous systems are discussed. The view that normal and pathological conditions do not form a continuum, but constitute qualitatively different phenomena, is presented and given support because of recent developments in neuroscience.
Unilateral ptosis and eye dominance.	We studied the relationship between eye dominance (Scobee test) and upper lid level (MRD) in 54 patients with unilateral ptosis or asymmetric bilateral ptosis (> or = 2 mm difference in MRD) using the phenylephrine test. A contralateral lid drop was measured in 12/54 patients after instillation of 2.5% phenylephrine in the more ptotic eye and occurred in both congenital (3) and acquired (9) ptosis cases. A contralateral lid drop was seen in 7/14 (50%) patients whose ptosis was greater in the dominant eye and in 5/40 (12.5%) patients whose ptosis was greater in the nondominant eye (p = .01). Contralateral lid drops > or = 1 mm were present in 7/54 patients, and 6/14 (43%) of them had greater ptosis on the dominant side and 1/40 (2.5%) on the non-dominant side (p = .001). There was no association between contralateral pseudoretraction and either visual acuity or severity of ptosis. These results suggest that levator muscle tone is influenced by eye dominance when ptosis is present. The preoperative evaluation of unilateral or asymmetrical bilateral ptosis cases should include the Scobee and phenylephrine tests to unmask contralateral upper lid pseudoretraction.
Cross-correlation analyses of nonlinear systems with spatiotemporal inputs.	Methods are presented for analyzing the low-order stimulus-response cross-correlation functions (or kernels) of visual neurons studied with spatiotemporal white noise. In particular, formulas are derived that relate the low-order kernels of a cell to its responses to single-drifting, double-drifting, and counterphase gratings. The harmonic response terms contributed by the low-order kernels include a mean response term, first- and second-harmonic terms, and sum- and difference-harmonic terms. Using the formulas in this paper, one can obtain kernel-based predictions for the spatiotemporal-frequency tuning of each harmonic. These kernel-based predictions can then be compared with harmonic tuning data obtained in experiments with real grating stimuli. The methods are illustrated using data recorded from one simple and one complex cell from the primary visual cortex of the monkey. The approach of transforming low-order kernels into predicted harmonic tuning functions provides a useful data reduction technique as well as providing insight into the interpretation of kernels.
Transient cortical pathways in the pyramidal tract of the neonatal ferret.	Anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP) was used to study transient axons from the visual cortex in the pyramidal tract. Injections at birth restricted to the visual cortex labeled axons in the vicinity of the pontine nuclei. Two to eight days after birth, axons from the occipital cortex were found posterior to the pontine nucleus, their caudalmost stable target. Transient corticospinal axons from the presumptive primary visual cortex did not grow caudal to the pyramidal decussation. Innervation of more distal targets preceded innervation of proximal targets. Innervation of the pontine nucleus is initiated around 68 hours after birth, when the transient extension in the medullary pyramidal tract has attained its maximum caudal extent. Innervation of the superior colliculus begins 9 days after birth. Retrograde tracers were used to follow the developmental changes in the cortical distribution of the parent neurons giving rise to axons in the pyramidal tract. In the adult, labeled neurons following injection of retrograde tracer in the pyramidal tract occupied less than a third of the neocortex and were centred on the anterior part of the coronal and spleniocruciate gyri. In the immature brain, labeled neurons covered more than two-thirds of the neocortex. Areal density measurements in the neonate showed that peak labeling was centred in the anterior coronal and spleniocruciate gyri, where corticospinal cells in the adult are located. There was a marked rostral-caudal gradient so that labeled neurons were very scarce towards the occipital pole. These results, showing transient neocortical axons in the pyramidal tract in a carnivore, suggest that this may be a common feature of mammalian development. The finding that the adult pattern of corticospinal projections does not emerge from a uniform distribution is discussed with respect to the areal specification of cortical connectivity.
Differential activation of the cortical visual areas in visually deprived rats.	The distribution of Fos-like protein, suggested to be a sensitive marker for neuronal activity, was studied in the visual cortex of 60 days old rats which were either blind congenitally and had their eyelids remained closed, or were born normally in terms of their visual apparatus but were dark reared, or were dark reared and exposed to light shortly before sacrifice, or were normal and reared in normal ambient light. Regardless of the primary cause, light deprivation produced a striking increase in Fos immunoreactivity, mainly in visual areas 17 and 18 a, with Fos-positive cells predominantly located in laminae IV and VI. Exposure of dark reared rats to ambient light further enhanced Fos immunoreactivity but it did not change the distribution pattern of Fos-immunoreactive neurons.
Electrophysiological identification of horizontal synaptic connections in rat visual cortex in vitro.	The presence of intrinsic horizontal synaptic connections in rat visual cortex was explored electrophysiologically using in vitro slice preparations. Intracellular recordings were made from pyramidal neurons located in the superficial and deep layers. Electrical stimulation at the gray matter in the same or different layers but 0.8-2.7 mm apart from the recording site evoked compound synaptic potentials composed of excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials of fast and slow time courses. Glutamate blockers, DNQX (5 microM) and kynurenate (2 mM) reduced the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP), and GABAB receptor antagonist, phaclofen (0.5 mM), abolished the inhibitory postsynaptic potential of the slow time course. EPSP of the fast time course followed 20 Hz repetitive stimulation in the medium of high Ca2+ (6.0 mM) and Mg2+ (4.0 mM) concentration, suggesting that this fast EPSP was monosynaptic. Conduction velocity of the fibers mediating the monosynaptic EPSP was estimated to be 0.15-0.55 m/s. These results provide physiological evidence for the horizontal synaptic connections in the rat visual cortex, which had been previously suggested by morphology.
Maps of visually evoked brain electrical activity in rabbits]	A basic model of topographic distribution of the electric response visually evoked in rabbits by means of flashes (0.69 joules/flash) has been obtained. The model is composed of four main parts--N0, P1, N1 y P2--linked to the VI visual area and displayed on a dipole shaped. The dipole turnaround time oscillates between 20 and 25 ms. The use of electrical activity brain maps on the study of the PE makes it possible to notice the phenomenon simultaneousness, thus facilitating its interpretation. A multinomial interpolation method of continuous function has been used to perform the maps.
Visual deprivation decreases long-term potentiation in rat visual cortical slices.	A major finding in the visual plasticity literature is that visual deprivation is effective only during an early 'sensitive' period, which is lengthened by dark rearing. Unresolved is whether the visual cortex is in a normally plastic state prior to light stimulation. This cannot be addressed using paradigms employing light exposure to assess plasticity. Several developmental studies have investigated a plastic phenomenon termed long-term potentiation (LTP) in slices from cat (J. Neurophysiol., 59 (1988) 124-141) and rat (Brain Res., 439 (1988) 222-229) visual cortex. Susceptibility to the induction of LTP parallels the period of sensitivity to visual deprivation. This suggests that slices can be used to assay visual cortical plasticity, avoiding light exposure. In the present study, field potentials were recorded from slices of the primary visual cortices of dark-reared (DR) and control (CONT) Long Evans hooded rats (17 to 21 days). Field potential profiles recorded before and 90 min following tetanic electrical stimulation were subjected to current source density analysis, yielding extracellular current sink amplitudes. Tetanus resulted in LTP in both CONT and DR slices, but DR slices were significantly less potentiated. These results indicate that the primary visual cortex of DR animals is not fully plastic, indicating a role for light stimulation in inducing visual cortical plasticity.
Visual learning for an auditory secondary reinforcer by macaques is intact after uncinate fascicle section: indirect evidence for the involvement of the corpus striatum.	Three cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) were trained preoperatively in visual discrimination learning for an auditory secondary reinforcer. Each new discrimination problem was solved on the basis of the secondary reinforcer, and primary reinforcement (food reward) was given only after a new problem had been solved. The animals learned 50 new problems in each daily session and it was therefore possible to assess accurately their average rate of learning new discrimination problems in this procedure. After the learning rate had stabilized preoperatively the animals were operated upon to transect the uncinate fascicle, the cortico-cortical pathway from visual association cortex in the temporal lobe to prefrontal cortex. The animals' learning rate was unchanged after uncinate fascicle section. A previous experiment has shown that visual learning for an auditory secondary reinforcer is unaffected by disconnection of visual association cortex from the amygdala and the fornix. Taken together, this negative evidence points strongly to the conclusion that visual learning for an auditory secondary reinforcer depends upon interaction of temporal lobe visual association cortex with the corpus striatum, since other possibilities have been excluded.
Induction of c-fos protein by patterned visual stimulation in central visual pathways of the rat.	Localized patterned visual stimulation was used in rats to investigate the feasibility of stimulus-dependent induction of the immediate early gene c-fos in neurons of cortical and subcortical visual centers of this mammal. Moving and stationary visual patterns, consisting of gratings and arrays of dark dots, induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in populations of neurons in retinotopically corresponding stimulated regions of the dorsal and ventral lateral geniculate nucleus (dLGN, vLGN), stratum griseum superficiale of the superior colliculus, nucleus of the optic tract, and primary (striate) visual cortex. Only moving stimuli induced Fos-like immunoreactive (FLI) neurons in extrastriate visual areas, particularly in the anterolateral (AL) visual area. This suggests that area AL is equivalent to the motion sensitive areas MT and PMLS of the monkey and cat. Stimulus-induced FLI neurons in the striate cortex were predominantly distributed in layers 4 and 6, while few labeled neurons were present in layers 2-3, and almost none in layer 5. The laminar distribution of stimulus-induced FLI cells in the extrastriate cortical area AL was similar to that of the striate cortex, with the exception that more FLI cells were present in layer 5. Statistical comparison of somata size of the stimulus-induced FLI neurons in dLGN with that of Cresyl violet stained neurons in the same sections revealed that the population of geniculate FLI neurons is composed of relay cells and interneurons.
Statistical characteristics of evoked responses to light in analysis of intercentral relationships]	In acute experiments on unanaesthetized cats immobilized with listenon, a study was made ofthe variability and interdependence of evoked responses to photic stimulation in the thalamo-cortical formations of the visual projection and the associative systems: the lateral geniculate body, pulvinar and the visual and parietal associative areas of the cerebral cortex. It has been shown that the variation coefficient of the amplitude from the maximum of the positive to the maximum of the negative oscillations in the parietal cortex statistically significantly exceeds the one in the lateral geniculate body and the projection cortex. Coefficients of paired correlation of evoked potentials' amplitudes to light more frequently reach significant levels for pairs consisting of one level formations, cortical or thalamic, than for pairs including formations of different levels.
Effect of early deprivation of visual evoked potentials of rabbit cerebral cortex under conditions of dark and light adaptation]	Rabbits raised in the dark revealed a significant decrease in amplitude and an increase in temporal parameters of the main components of evoked potentials (EP) to diffuse flashes under dark adaptation, as well as a facilitation of the postprimary components and intensification of the sensory after-discharge. In contradistinction to normal, the deprived animals exhibited no augmentation of the amplitude of the EP primary positive phase at higher intensity of the flahses or any significant decrease in the EP amplitude under light adaptation conditions. It is suggested that early deprivation brings about a decrease in the number of elements reacting to a specific stimulation, especially of elements working in photopic conditions; the decrease in the number of activated afferent inputs in the visual cortex due to deprivation reduces the effectiveness of the processes of successive inhibition; at the same time there is an increase of synchronic influences of the thalamic inhibitory mechanisms of the cortex.
Influence of the mesencephalic reticular formation on the synchronization of cortical evoked potentials]	It has been shown in experiments on alert rabbits that evoked potentials (EP) of the visual and motor cortex to a millisecond stimulation of the midbrain reticular formation (RF) have a greater similarity (due to increased amplitude and coherence of the theta-rhythmic components) as compared with preceding background activity and evoked potentials to a photic flash. The EPs of these neocortical areas to a photic flash had a more similar form after preliminary RF stimulation. The similarity of evoked responses to stimulation of RF increased after its repeated presentations. The summate poststimulus histogram in which the responses of individual units (24 neurones) of the visual cortex to a single RF stimulation were summed up, proved to be similar in form to EP recorded on the surface of the visual cortex after a similar RF stimulation.
Evoked potentials in cortical and subcortical structures of the visual system to photic and acoustic stimuli under conditions of early light deprivation]	Rabbits raised during one month in the dark have exhibited a lower amplitude and longer peak latencies of evoked potentials (EP) to photic stimuli in the visual cortex and the lateral geniculate body with a simultaneous increase of amplitude and decrease of EP latencies in these formations to acoustic stimuli. Similar changes have been observed in the EP amplitude as well as unvaried latencies in the superior colliculus. An assumption has been made that under light deprivation monosensory units change after the type of function deficit, while polysensory ones, change after activity increase type. The later sets in as a result of compensatory processes due to enhanced activity from the receptors of other sensory systems (auditory, olfactory, somaestetic, and others).
Effect of defocusing a visual stimulus on a human evoked potential]	A study was made of EP recorded in the visual projection area of the cerebral cortex in children with normal sight and in those with disturbed refraction when presented with blank and checkered patterns, the dimensions of the chess squares equalling 10, 20, 40, 60 and 120 angular minutes. In children with normal sight the patterns were defocussed by eyeglass lenses of --1 to +/- 6 dioptries. The investigation revealed a different EP configuration on the presentation of blank and checkered patterns. There was a similarity between the EP change when a blank pattern was replaced by a checkered one, and when the checkered pattern was made sharper. It is assumed that these EP changes results from enhanced lateral inhibition due to the contrast boundaries of the checkered pattern, The experiments carried out on children with disturbed refraction indicated that the maximal EP amplitude corresponded to the optimal optic correction, which shows that theuse of EP is a promising cue in determing vision acuity.
Electrophysiologic study of the connections of the 2d somatosensory area of the cortex with the neo-, paleocortical and striate formations of the brain]	2nd somatosensory area (C2) was shown to have modulating influence on evoked activity of the 1st somatosensory and visual areas. Electrical stimulation of C2 evoked short latency potentials in the structures of paleocortex (hippocampus) and striatum (putamen, caudate nucleus). Analysis of the data obtained here and elsewhere (19) suggests the important role of C2 in mechanisms of selection, comparison and integration of adequate sensory information under conditions of uncertainty, for the programming of behaviour.
Effect of binocular interaction of rat visual cortex neurons]	In anesthetized rats, out of 135 neurons recorded in binocular area within the striate cortex, 92 (74%) were binocular. 53 of these had well defined, mainly identical receptive fields on the two retinae. The range of relative horizontal and vertical disparity was found to be 5 degrees and 4 degrees respectively. These findings suggest that the visual system of the rat is capable to discover the spatial relationship using mechanisms of binocular fusion, in contrast to data obtained in rabbits.
Visual discriminations of cats with cortical and tectal lesions.	Fourteen cats were trained on three visual discrimination tasks: light vs. dark, horizontal vs. vertical stripes, and upright vs. inverted triangles. Four of the cats then underwent large, bilateral occipito-temporal cortex ablations; postoperatively, they demonstrated little or no visually guided orienting behavior and solve only the brightness task and not the preoperatively learned pattern discriminations. Six other cats underwent the same cortical ablations plus a transection of the commissure of the superior colliculus; postoperatively, they demonstrated good visually guided orienting behavior (i.e., the Sprague effect) but still could solve only the brightness task. The final four cats were controls and underwent no surgery; they demonstrated good retention of the pattern task despite an extensive idle period corresponding to the postoperative period before retesting the above ten cats. These data indicate that, while a transection of the collicular commissure after visual decortication dramatically improves visual orienting, it does not obviously improve visual discrimination abilities.
The effect of cortical lesions upon visual discriminations in binocularly deprived cats.	Four cats were raised with binocular eyelid suture and, after their eyes were opened, were trained on a series of discrimination tasks. They performed at normal rates on the brightness task but indicated some difficulty with the pattern tasks. They then received large, bilateral occipito-temporal cortex ablations. Postoperatively, this in no observable way affected their visually guided orienting behavior, but it did destroy their capacity to perform the preoperatively learned pattern tasks. Postoperative performance on the brightness task remained good. These data indicate that, in these deprived cats, there is little or no cortical development for visual orienting, but cortex is necessary for visual discrimination learning.
Voluntary alpha control, visually evoked potentials, and peripheral physiological indicants of activation.	To test the hypothesis that voluntary alpha control is mediated in part through self-induced changes in cortical activation level and bodily arousal, changes in several physiological indicants of such activity were systematically examined as a function of the voluntary enhancement and suppression of scalp-recorded alpha activity. Following per-training, 6 subjects attempted to either produce or suppress alpha with eyes closed while receiving continuous anditory feedback of their alpha levels. The results were interpreted as offering tentative support for the hypothesis.
Specific and general contour adaptation effects found using a selective adaptation paradigm.	There is evidence for discrete property analyzers in mammalian visual systems. Research has indicated that prolonged stimulation of such units reduces their sensitivity to subsequent stimulation. Psychophysical studies have employed this effect, terned selective adaptation, to study feature extractors in the human visual system. The purpose of this study was to determine the role of density and deviation in the adaptation figure on the recognition thresholds of simple and complex text figures. A selective adaptation paradigm was employed. A strict property analyzer model suggests that increases in density, deviation, or complexity should lead to an increased recognition time for the test figures. This was not confirmed. The complexity of the test figure had no effect on its recognition time. Both increased density and deviation did have an effect on the recognition times of the test figures. The results thus suggest that contour adaptation involves at least two processes: a general, probably peripheral effect due to the fatigue of visual receptor units and a more specific effect generated by the similarity between test figure and adaptation contours, independent of the site of stimulation.
Developmental down-regulation of LTD in cortical layer IV and its independence of modulation by inhibition.	For in vitro LTD to remain viable as a model for synaptic weakening in visual cortical plasticity, it is crucial that it display a critical period for its induction within layer IV. A complicating factor, however, is that LTD in layer IV is modulated by inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs); postsynaptic responses characterized as containing IPSPs do not depress in response to 1 Hz afferent stimulation. By blocking IPSPs intracellularly, we find that the ability to induce LTD in layer IV neurons is restored in juvenile, but not in mature animals. This developmental down-regulation of LTD induction is specific for layer IV when compared with LTD induction in layers II/III. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that an LTD-like phenomenon is involved in critical period plasticity and is apparently independent of developmental changes in inhibitory circuitry.
Temporal coding in vision: coding by the spike arrival times leads to oscillations in the case of moving targets.	The 'oscillations' which have been observed in the visual cortex of cats and monkeys in the case of moving targets are discussed in relation to a temporal coding based on the arrival times of spikes or bursts. A decoding process for this temporal coding is proposed in which neurons work in a correlator mode. In the case of motion analysis, periodic resetting is needed to avoid information jamming. This resetting is proposed to be responsible for the 'oscillations'. Good initial synchronization is required for the decoding process to be performed efficiently. A diffusive process based on interdendritic ionic currents is proposed and shown to operate efficiently, without any loss of spatial and temporal resolving powers.
EEG-correlates of direct and reverse conditioned connections in a food-getting reflex formed to electric stimulation of the lateral geniculate body]	In the course of formation of a food-procuring conditioned reflex to low-frequency electrical stimulation of the cat LGB, the corresponding evoked potentials underwent a change: the main negative component of the evoked potential in the visual area of the cerebral cortex increased; a distinct evoked potential not recorded before conditioning appeared in the sensorimotor area. The changes are regarded as EEG-correlates of formation of a forward conditioned connection. In tests with an isolated presentation of the reinforcing stimulus, a 6--8 c/s rhythm was recorded in the visual cortical area, similar to that of conditioned stimulation of LGB and considered as an EEG-correlate of a backward conditioned connection.
Interrelationships between the background impulse activity of cortical neurons and the EEG]	Spike activity of cortical units and EEG on the surface of the cortex near the microelectrode were recorded simultaneously in alert non-immobilized rabbits. The technique of synchronous summation used in the data processing has revealed a statistically significant interrelation between background spike activity of the cortical units and the surface biopotentials. A predominant tendency was revealed toward generation of a spike during the maximal surface-positive deviation of slow biopotentials. The average level of cross-correlation between the spike and slow processes in the background has a magnitude of the order of +/- 10(-2), while individual cross correlation coefficients attain the magnitude of 10-1.
Visual illusions and the alpha-rhythm EEG]	During flicker stimulation with the alpha-rhythm frequency through the closed eyes 11 from 12 subjects clearly saw illusory objects (in order of descending probability, ring, circle, three-dimensional spiral or spiral spring, funnel, curved crossed bars). The individual optimal stimulation frequency for producing an illusion was always within the alpha range and was closely correlated with the individual dominant alpha frequency (r = 0.86). A supposition is discussed that the effect obtained is based on the quasistroboscopic fixation of the spreading cortical excitation wave of the alpha-rhythm due to its summation with the isorhythmic afferent diffuse cortical excitation evoked by flashes. This phenomenon enables "freezing" of the alpha wave at a certain instant of its spreading and makes it "visible".
Some electrophysiological properties of neurones of rat locus coeruleus.	1. Electrical activity of neurones of the locus coeruleus (LC) was studied in rats anaesthetized with urethane. By stimulating the dorsal pathway (DP) of axons of LC neurones in the mid=brain and observing field responses in the dorsolateral tegmentum of the pons, micro-electrodes were oriented to record unit discharges of LC neurones. They were evoked by DP stimulation mainly during the negative wave of the field response. 2. In the extraceullar records of spike discharges of LC meurones A and B spikes were distinguished. Very often the third component (C spike) was observed to ride on the descending stroke of the B spike. When present in the evoked discharge, it was also seen in the spontaneous discharge. 3. The DP-elicited unit discharges of LC neurones were classified into three types. The type 1 response had a fixed latency and a distinct A-B step. In the type 2 response the A spike occurred with a fixed latency, but the B spike followed it with variable delays, sometimes exceeding 5 msec. Being supported by the data of the collision test with spontaneous discharges, the type 1 and 2 responses were assumed to be due to antidromic excitation. The type 3 response whose characteristic was a wide variation of the latency from stimulation to stimulation was categorized as orthodromic excitation. Among seventy-four responses, forty-four were type 1, eight type 2 and twenty-two type 3. The conduction velocities of axons of LC neurones, determined from the latencies of the A spike of the type 1 and 2 responses, ranged from 0-3 to 1-4 m/sec with a mean of 0-69 m/sec. 4. Delay of the B spike in antidromic excitation was observed as a unique property of LC neurones. It was seen in the response to a single shock of DP (type 2 response) or in the response to the second shock of DP following the first one shortly (type 1 response). Since delay of the B spike in the type 2 response could not be ascribed to refractoriness, it was suggested that DP stimulation produced an inhibitory effect upon LC neurones. 5. LC neurones were invaded antidromically from the frontal or visual cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum or from varied combinations of them. About 70% of LC neurones were activated antidromically from the frontal cortex. The antidromic latencies ranged from 15 to 90 msec. 6. Some LC neurones were activated trans-synaptically by stimulation of those forebrain sites which received axonal projections from LC. All LC neurones examined were excited trans-synaptically by eletrical stimulation of the skin and the optic nerve. The sensory inputs arising from a vast area of the skin or those from the skin and the optic nerve were proved to converge on to the same LC neurones.
Visual activity is required to maintain the phenotype of supragranular NPY neurons in rat area 17.	Visual activity governs the functional maturation of the mammalian visual cortex. We report here, that visual experience is required for stabilizing the phenotype of a subset of cortical interneurons. Neurons expressing neuropeptide Y mRNA (NPY neurons) display a transiently higher expression in the early postnatal visual areas 18a and 17 that is followed by a phenotype restriction during the second postnatal month: about 50% of the NPY neurons in supragranular and infragranular layers of area 18a, and in infragranular layers of area 17 gradually stop the NPY expression. In contrast, the expression remains unchanged in supragranular layers of area 17. Dark rearing rats from birth to up to 100 days does neither prevent the developmental onset of NPY mRNA expression, nor does it prevent the phenotype restriction from occurring. In contrast, in dark reared animals NPY neurons in supragranular layers of area 17 now also undergo a phenotype restriction. Returning animals to light after variable periods of darkness results in an upregulation of NPY mRNA expression selectively in neurons in supragranular layers of area 17. These neurons acquire a constitutive expression during the second postnatal month. This suggests that the phenotypic specification of a distinct subset of cortical interneurons is regulated by visual experience which thus influences on the maturation of the neurochemical architecture of area 17.
Functional connectivity within the visual cortex of the rat shows state changes.	The aim of this study was to investigate the dynamics of the horizontal functional connectivity within the visual cortex during spontaneous activity or during visual stimulation. Two arrays of 16 electrodes were inserted in the visual cortex of a rat. From these electrodes a depth profile was obtained of the local spiking activity. The cross-correlations between all electrodes were estimated. Three types of cross-correlation peaks were identified and classified as; 'thin peaks', 'fast waves' and 'slow waves'. Partialization was applied, a mathematical method to reduce the amount of common input in correlations, and its effect on the three types of correlation peaks was studied. Slow waves were found to be the most vulnerable to partialization and thin peaks the least. From these observations it was concluded that the three types of peaks represent synchronous neuronal assemblies of different magnitude; slow waves large, fast waves intermediate and thin peaks assemblies composed of small numbers of neurons. Large changes were observed in the types of cross-correlations and their spatial distribution within the set of interarray combinations of electrodes. These changes were spontaneous, and could not be related to the visual stimulation. Two states were identified; the 'thin-peak' state and the 'slow-wave' state. The 'thin-peak' state is interpreted as occurring at a light level of anaesthesia and is characterized by the presence of thin peaks in all combinations of electrodes. Thin peaks with the largest strength were found in the upper interarray electrode combinations. The 'slow-wave' state is interpreted as occurring at a deep level of anaesthesia and is characterized by the presence of exclusively slow waves, which were limited mostly to the middle and lower interarray combinations of electrodes. Activation of the cortex is thus associated with the appearance of synchrony between small groups of neurons (thin peaks) which, in contrast to the slow-wave state, include the upper layers of the cortex.
The effects of eccentricity and spatial frequency on the orientation discrimination asymmetry.	This study investigated the effects of eccentricity and spatial frequency on the discrimination of vertical and oblique (10 deg from vertical) Gabor patches. Within a display stimuli were scaled by a factor F = 1 + E/E2 at each eccentricity (E) in an attempt to equate either the number of photoreceptors (E2 = 2.5) or cortical area (E2 = 0.77) engaged at each eccentricity. The task was to detect a differently oriented target among eleven distractors. Orientation discrimination asymmetries (ODAs) were found such that an oblique stimulus was easier to detect in a background of vertical stimuli than vice versa. Subjects were equally sensitive to the two highest frequency Gabor patches and less sensitive to the lowest frequency Gabors. When stimuli were scaled with E2 = 2.5 sensitivity was constant at all eccentricities and the ODA magnitude was unaffected. When stimuli were magnified with E2 = 0.77 both sensitivity and ODA magnitude increased with eccentricity. Generally, we may conclude that the ODA effect is not a strictly foveal phenomenon nor is it a strictly high frequency effect.
Mechanisms of central color vision.	In monkey cerebral cortex, color information is processed along the ventral visual pathway. This pathway starts in the primary visual cortex and ends in area TE of the inferior temporal cortex. Recent studies indicate that the transformation of cone signals occurs early in the pathway to form neurons selective to a narrow range of hues. In addition, it has become apparent that area TE plays a vital role in color discrimination.
Complex microstructures of sensory cortical connections.	The neocortex has a distinctive laminar and modular organization. Although important questions remain regarding structure and function at this level of organization, recent studies are addressing a finer scale of synaptic and network microstructure. New findings concerning network properties are rapidly emerging from approaches in which dual or triple intracellular recordings in vitro are combined with analyses of cell and synaptic morphology, as well as from experiments designed to label multiple cell populations.
Mechanisms of stereoscopic vision: the disparity energy model.	The past year has seen significant advances in our understanding of the role played by the primary visual cortex (V1) in stereoscopic vision. Recently, the mechanism by which complex cells in V1 respond to random-dot stereograms has been characterized; it appears that their response properties greatly reduce the complexity of one of the critical links for stereopsis, the correspondence problem.
Feedforward, horizontal, and feedback processing in the visual cortex.	The cortical visual system consists of many richly interconnected areas. Each area is characterized by more or less specific receptive field tuning properties. However, these tuning properties reflect only a subset of the interactions that occur within and between areas. Neuronal responses may be modulated by perceptual context or attention. These modulations reflect lateral interactions within areas and feedback from higher to lower areas. Recent work is beginning to unravel how horizontal and feedback connections each contribute to modulatory effects and what the role of these modulations is in vision. Whereas receptive field tuning properties reflect feedforward processing, modulations evoked by horizontal and feedback connections may reflect the integration of information that underlies perception.
Complex motion perception and its deficits.	Within the hierarchy of motion perception, the dorsolateral middle superior temporal area (MSTd) is optimally suited for the analysis of the complex motion patterns that are directly useful for visually guided behaviour (e.g. computation of heading). Recent electrophysiological and psychophysical evidence suggests the existence of 'detectors' in MSTd that are specialised for complex motion patterns and advocates the necessity of combining retinal and extraretinal signals received by MSTd neurones for the accurate perception of heading. In some neurological patients, of which only a small number have been reported to date, lesions involving the human homologue of MST have devastating effects on their ability to navigate in their surroundings. It has been reported that these patients have impaired performance of psychophysical tasks of complex motion discrimination.
The effect of dynamic synapses on spatiotemporal receptive fields in visual cortex.	Temporal dynamics are a general feature of synaptic transmission. Recently, novel aspects of temporal dynamics of synaptic transmission have been reported in the neocortex. Here, we examine the possible effects of these dynamics on the spatiotemporal receptive fields of simple cells in V1. We do this by examining a simple model of a cortical neuron that displays stimulus orientation selectivity as a consequence of the pattern of thalamocortical synaptic weights. In our model, the receptive field structure is encoded functionally in either presynaptic probability of release or postsynaptic efficacy. We show that these different assumptions about the origin of receptive field structure lead to very different spatiotemporal dynamics in the case of flashed-bar stimulus. In addition, the results of the reverse correlation study suggest a possible test for differentiating between models. We also show that the temporal code induced by dynamic synapses can be used to distinguish between different inputs that induce the same average firing rate.
Evidence for a contribution of lateral inhibition to orientation tuning and direction selectivity in cat visual cortex: reversible inactivation of functionally characterized sites combined with neuroanatomical tracing techniques.	We have previously reported that cells in cat areas 17 and 18 can show increases in response to non-optimal orientations or directions, commensurate with a loss of inhibition, during inactivation of laterally remote, visuotopically corresponding sites by iontophoresis of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). We now present anatomical evidence for inhibitory projections from inactivation sites to recording sites where 'disinhibitory' effects were elicited. We made microinjections of [3H]-nipecotic acid, which selectively exploits the GABA re-uptake mechanism, < 100 microm from recording sites where cells had shown either an increase in response to non-optimal orientations during inactivation of a cross-orientation site (n = 2) or an increase in response to the non-preferred direction during inactivation of an iso-orientation site with opposite direction preference (n = 5). Retrogradely labelled GABAergic neurons were detected autoradiographically and their distribution was reconstructed from series of horizontal sections. In every case, radiolabelled cells were found in the vicinity of the inactivation site (three to six within 150 microm). The injection and inactivation sites were located in layers II/III-IV and their horizontal separation ranged from 400 to 560 microm. In another experiment, iontophoresis of biocytin at an inactivation site in layer III labelled two large basket cells with terminals in close proximity to cross-orientation recording sites in layers II/III where disinhibitory effects on orientation tuning had been elicited. We argue that the inactivation of inhibitory projections from inactivation to recording sites made a major contribution to the observed effects by reducing the strength of inhibition during non-optimal stimulation in recurrently connected excitatory neurons presynaptic to a recorded cell. The results provide further evidence that cortical orientation tuning and direction selectivity are sharpened, respectively, by cross-orientation inhibition and iso-orientation inhibition between cells with opposite direction preferences.
Solutions for the binding problem.	Visual cortical neurons are broadly tuned to one or a few feature dimensions, like color and motion. This is advantageous because broadly tuned neurons can contribute to the representation of many visual scenes. However, if there are multiple objects in a visual scene, the cortex is at risk to combine features of different objects as if they belong to a single object. The term "binding problem" was introduced to refer to the difficulties that may occur in sorting out those responses that are evoked by a single perceptual object. The present article reviews proposals suggesting that the binding problem is solved by labelling an assembly of neurons that is responsive to a single perceptual object. Evidence is reviewed in favor of two possible assembly-labels: rate enhancement due to visual attention and neuronal synchrony. Assembly-labels should be spread through the cortical network to all neurons that have to participate in an assembly. The present article tries to shed light on the mechanisms that subserve such a selective spread of assembly labels. Moreover, it is suggested that assembly labels may fulfill an equivalent role in the motor system, since binding problems can also occur during the generation of useful patterns of motor activity.
Mechanisms of directed attention in the human extrastriate cortex as revealed by functional MRI.	A typical scene contains many different objects, but the capacity of the visual system to process multiple stimuli at a given time is limited. Thus, attentional mechanisms are required to select relevant objects from among the many objects competing for visual processing. Evidence from functional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in humans showed that when multiple stimuli are present simultaneously in the visual field, their cortical representations within the object recognition pathway interact in a competitive, suppressive fashion. Directing attention to one of the stimuli counteracts the suppressive influence of nearby stimuli. This mechanism may serve to filter out irrelevant information in cluttered visual scenes.
Excitatory convergence of Y and non-Y channels onto single neurons in the anterior ectosylvian visual area of the cat.	Numerous functional and hodological studies of the anterior ectosylvian visual area (AEV) of the cerebral cortex of the cat suggest that this area plays an important role in processing information about visual motion. In the present study, in cats with selective conduction block of Y fibres in one optic nerve, we have examined the extent of the excitatory convergence of Y (presumed 'motion channel') and non-Y information channels on single neurons in AEV, as well as the contribution of the Y channel to the receptive field properties of AEV neurons. While in normal cats all neurons recorded from AEV were binocular, i.e. could be photically activated via either eye, in cats with selective conduction block of Y fibres in one optic nerve, a significant proportion (about 15%) of AEV cells could be photically activated only via the normal eye. In comparison to those in normal cats, the peak discharge rates of AEV neurons in the Y-blocked cats were drastically reduced not only when photic stimuli were presented via the Y-blocked eye, but also when they were presented via the normal eye. Selective block of Y input also resulted in a significant shift in velocity preferences towards the lower velocities. However, the direction selectivity indices of AEV neurons were not affected by selective Y block. Thus: (i) the responses of AEV neurons to a high velocity of motion are dependent on the integrity of the Y input; (ii) the 'spontaneous' (i.e. not photically evoked) discharges of Y retinal ganglion cells exert a facilitatory influence on the responses of AEV cells to photic stimuli; (iii) although the responses of AEV neurons are dominated by the Y inputs, AEV neurons also receive significant non-Y excitatory inputs; and (iv) the strong direction selectivity revealed in most AEV neurons does not dependent on the integrity of Y input.
A neural model of binocular integration and rivalry based on the coordination of action-potential timing in primary visual cortex.	In normal vision, the inputs from the two eyes are integrated into a single percept. When dissimilar images are presented to the two eyes, however, they compete for perceptual dominance, so that one eye's view suppresses that of the other. Recent evidence suggests that this phenomenon, known as binocular rivalry, arises through competition between alternative stimulus interpretations in extrastriate cortex. Because eye-specific information appears to be lost at this stage, it remains unclear how the stimulus conditions that yield binocular rivalry are distinguished from those that produce stable single vision. Using a neural network that models the mammalian early visual system, I investigate here the hypothesis that congruent and conflicting stimuli are distinguished by their different effects on the relative timing of action potentials in primary visual cortex (V1), where monocular inputs are first combined. In the model, congruent stimulation of both eyes results in synchronization of discharges among binocular neurons in V1. By contrast, conflicting stimulation of the two eyes results in neuronal asynchrony in this area. This asynchrony then produces rivalrous response suppression at later stages in the visual pathway. Synchronization of firing in V1, however, prevents such competition, thereby ensuring non-rivalrous responses. These novel effects of spike timing on competition emerge naturally from the network dynamics. The results suggest that input-related differences in relative spike timing at an early stage of visual processing may play an important part in the phenomena both of binocular integration and rivalry; furthermore, they indicate that the temporal patterning of cortical activity may be a fundamental mechanism of selection among competing stimulus representations.
Object-based attention in the primary visual cortex of the macaque monkey.	Typical natural visual scenes contain many objects, which need to be segregated from each other and from the background. Present theories subdivide the processes responsible for this segregation into a pre-attentive and attentive system. The pre-attentive system segregates image regions that 'pop out' rapidly and in parallel across the visual field. In the primary visual cortex, responses to pre-attentively selected image regions are enhanced. When objects do not segregate automatically from the rest of the image, the time-consuming attentive system is recruited. Here we investigate whether attentive selection is also associated with a modulation of firing rates in area V1 of the brain in monkeys trained to perform a curve-tracing task. Neuronal responses to the various segments of a target curve were simultaneously enhanced relative to responses evoked by a distractor curve, even if the two curves crossed each other. This indicates that object-based attention is associated with a response enhancement at the earliest level of the visual cortical processing hierarchy.
Cortical connections of the dorsomedial visual area in new world owl monkeys (Aotus trivirgatus) and squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus).	The dorsomedial visual area (DM) is an extrastriate area that was originally described in owl monkeys as a complete representation of the visual hemifield in a heavily myelinated wedge of cortex just rostral to dorsomedial visual area V2. More recently, connections of DM in owl monkeys have been described (Krubitzer and Kaas [1993] J. Comp. Neurol 334:497-528). As part of an effort to determine whether DM exists in other primates, we compared the architecture, connections, and visual topography of DM in owl monkeys and the presumptive DM in squirrel monkeys. In both species of New World monkeys, the DM region was more heavily myelinated than adjacent cortex, and this region was connected with the first and second visual areas, the middle temporal area (MT), the medial area, the ventral posterior parietal area, the dorsointermediate area, the dorsolateral area, the ventral posterior and ventral anterior areas, the medial superior temporal area, the fundal area of the superior temporal sulcus, the inferior temporal cortex, and frontal cortex in or near the frontal eye field. In squirrel monkeys, both blob and interblob regions of V1 contributed equally to DM, whereas the blob regions provided most of the projections to V1 in owl monkeys. In squirrel monkeys, connections were also found with cortex on the ventral surface in the ventral occipital temporal sulcus. In owl monkeys and squirrel monkeys, connections were with both the upper and lower visual field representations in V1, V2, and MT, demonstrating that DM contains a complete representation of the visual field. These similarities in architecture, connections, and retinotopy argue that DM is a visual area of both owl and squirrel monkeys.
Reciprocal inhibitory visual-vestibular interaction. Visual motion stimulation deactivates the parieto-insular vestibular cortex.	The vestibular system--a sensor of head accelerations--cannot detect self-motion at constant velocity and thus requires supplementary visual information. The perception of self-motion during constant velocity movement is completely dependent on visually induced vection. This can be linear vection or circular vection (CV). CV is induced by large-field visual motion stimulation during which the stationary subject perceives the moving surroundings as being stable and himself as being moved. To determine the unknown cortical visual-vestibular interaction during CV, we conducted a PET activation study on CV in 10 human volunteers. The PET images of cortical areas activated during visual motion stimulation without CV were compared with those with CV. Hitherto, CV was explained neurophysiologically by visual-vestibular convergence with activation of the vestibular nuclei, thalamic subnuclei and vestibular cortex. If CV were mediated by the vestibular cortex, one would expect that an adequate visual motion stimulus would activate both the visual and vestibular cortex. Contrary to this expectation, it was shown for the first time that visual motion stimulation with CV not only activates a medial parieto-occipital visual area bilaterally, separate from middle temporal/medial superior temporal areas, it also simultaneously deactivates the parieto-insular vestibular cortex. There was a positive correlation between the perceived intensity of CV and relative changes in regional CBF in parietal and occipital areas. These findings support a new functional interpretation: reciprocal inhibitory visual-vestibular interaction as a multisensory mechanism for self-motion perception. Inhibitory visual-vestibular interaction might protect visual perception of self-motion from potential vestibular mismatches caused by involuntary head accelerations during locomotion, and this would allow the dominant sensorial weight during self-motion perception to shift from one sensory modality to the other.
Visual acuity, contrast sensitivity and retinal magnification in a marsupial, the tammar wallaby (Macropus eugenii).	The visual acuity of the tammar wallaby was estimated using a behavioural discrimination task. The wallabies were trained to discriminate a high-contrast (86%) square-wave grating from a grey field of equal luminance (1000-6000 cd m-2). Visual-evoked cortical potentials were used to measure the complete contrast sensitivity function. The stimulus was a sinusoidal phase reversal of a sinusoidally modulated grating of various spatial frequencies and contrasts with a mean luminance of 40 cd m-2). The behavioural acuity was estimated to be about 4.8 cycles/deg. The contrast sensitivity peaked at about 0.15 cycles/deg and declined towards both lower and higher spatial frequencies. The cut-off frequency of the contrast sensitivity function is slightly lower than the behaviourally measured acuity at about 2.7 cycles/deg. The retinal magnification factor was estimated anatomically from laser lesions to be about 0.16 mm/deg. Based on the known ganglion cell density and the retinal magnification factor, an anatomical upper limit to visual acuity of about 6 cycles/deg can be calculated. The differences in estimates of visual acuity between the behavioural and anatomical methods on the one side and physiology on the other side are discussed.
Responses of regular spiking and fast spiking cells in turtle visual cortex to light flashes.	Sharp electrodes were used to record light-evoked postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) from neurons in turtle visual cortex in an in vitro preparation of the geniculocortical pathway. Neurons were placed into four groups based on the firing patterns produced by intracellular current injections: regular spiking (RS), fast spiking (FS), intrinsic bursting (IB), and chattering (CH) cells. RS cells have been shown to be pyramidal cells while FS cells are typically interneurons. Light stimuli were diffuse, 1-s flashes of 640-nm light with intensities (I) varying from 0 to 10(4) photons microm(-2) s(-1). The response (R) in each case was the maximal amplitude of the light-evoked depolarizing PSP. Cells of all four types showed sigmoidal intensity-response (IR) functions with a linear rising phase for stimuli above the intensity threshold followed by saturation at high light intensities. Responses at high intensities were variable and some cells showed indications of supersaturation. Light-evoked PSPs had longer latencies and times-to-peak response in RS cells than they did in FS cells. RS cells fired action potentials as much as 200 ms later than did FS cells. Since responses recorded in RS cells at light intensities just above threshold are unlikely to involve contributions from other pyramidal cells, these data indicate that the geniculocortical or feedforward pathway to pyramidal cells has a high gain. The fact that FS cells fire well before RS cells suggests that feedforward inhibition plays a role in controlling the gain of the geniculocortical pathway.
Visual attention mediated by biased competition in extrastriate visual cortex.	According to conventional neurobiological accounts of visual attention, attention serves to enhance extrastriate neuronal responses to a stimulus at one spatial location in the visual field. However, recent results from recordings in extrastriate cortex of monkeys suggest that any enhancing effect of attention is best understood in the context of competitive interactions among neurons representing all of the stimuli present in the visual field. These interactions can be biased in favour of behaviourally relevant stimuli as a result of many different processes, both spatial and non-spatial, and both bottom-up and top-down. The resolution of this competition results in the suppression of the neuronal representations of behaviourally irrelevant stimuli in extrastriate cortex. A main source of top-down influence may derive from neuronal systems underlying working memory.
Sensory gain control (amplification) as a mechanism of selective attention: electrophysiological and neuroimaging evidence.	Both physiological and behavioral studies have suggested that stimulus-driven neural activity in the sensory pathways can be modulated in amplitude during selective attention. Recordings of event-related brain potentials indicate that such sensory gain control or amplification processes play an important role in visual-spatial attention. Combined event-related brain potential and neuroimaging experiments provide strong evidence that attentional gain control operates at an early stage of visual processing in extrastriate cortical areas. These data support early selection theories of attention and provide a basis for distinguishing between separate mechanisms of attentional suppression (of unattended inputs) and attentional facilitation (of attended inputs).
Human cortical mechanisms of visual attention during orienting and search.	Functional anatomical studies indicate that a set of neural signals in parietal and frontal cortex mediates the covert allocation of attention to visual locations across a wide variety of visual tasks. This frontoparietal network includes areas, such as the frontal eye field and supplementary eye field. This anatomical overlap suggests that shifts of attention to visual locations of objects recruit areas involved in oculomotor programming and execution. Finally, the fronto-parietal network may be the source of spatial attentional modulations in the ventral visual system during object recognition or discrimination.
A perceptual memory for low-contrast visual signals.	Detection of a visual signal can be facilitated by simultaneous presentation of a similar subthreshold signal. Here we show that the facilitatory effect of a subthreshold signal can persist for more than 16 s. Presenting a near-threshold Gabor signal (prime) produced a phase-independent increase in contrast sensitivity (40%) to similar successive signals (target) for a period of up to 16 s. This effect was obtained only when both prime and target were presented to the same eye. We further show that the memory trace is inactivated by presenting high-contrast signals before the target. These results suggest that activated neurons in the primary visual cortex retain a near-threshold memory trace that persists until reactivated.
Human brain activity related to speed discrimination tasks.	The regional cerebral blood-flow (rCBF) pattern of the human brain was measured using positron emission tomography (PET) while subjects viewed, detected, judged the speed of a moving random dot pattern (RDP) or compared speeds of successive RDPs. In all four conditions, retinal input was identical. Two additional conditions, continuous presentation of a moving and a stationary RDP, were included to identify human MT/V5 (hMT/V5). Both speed discrimination tasks involved the right cuneus and right lingual gyrus and to a lesser degree the left lingual gyrus and a more anterior lingual region in the right hemisphere. There was, however, little or no differential activity over hMT/V5 during either speed discrimination. Direct comparison of the two speed discrimination tasks revealed higher activity in the right middle fusiform gyrus, a result reminiscent of that obtained in earlier studies using orientation and direction as the attribute to be discriminated. These results confirm that processing in the human visual cortex is task dependent and underscore the role of the middle fusiform gyrus in temporal comparison of simple attributes.
Cortical regions involved in visual texture perception: a fMRI study.	To determine visual areas of the human brain involved in elementary form processing, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to measure regional responses to two types of achromatic textures. Healthy young adults were presented with 'random' textures which lacked spatial organization of the black and white pixels that make up the image, and 'correlated' textures in which the pixels were ordered to produce extended contours and rectangular blocks at multiple spatial scales. Relative to a fixation condition, random texture stimulation resulted in increased signal intensity primarily in the striate cortex, with slight involvement of the cuneus and middle occipital, lingual and fusiform gyri. Correlated texture stimulation also resulted in activation of these areas, yet the regional extent of this activation was significantly greater than that produced by random textures. Unlike random stimulation, correlated stimulation additionally resulted in middle temporal activation. Direct comparison of the two stimulation conditions revealed significant differences most consistently in the anterior fusiform gyrus, but also in striate, middle occipital, lingual and posterior temporal regions in subjects with robust activation patterns. While both random and correlated stimulation produced activation in similar areas of the occipital lobe, the increase in regional activation during the correlated condition suggests increased recruitment of neuronal populations occurs in response to textures containing visually salient features. This increased recruitment occurs within striate, extrastriate and temporal regions of the brain, also suggesting the presence of receptive field mechanisms in the ventral visual pathway that are sensitive to features produced by higher-order spatial correlations.
Modulation of human auditory information processing by emotional visual stimuli.	Auditory event-related potentials mismatch negativity (MMN) and N100 were recorded from seven subjects while they read text and watched emotionally negative, neutral, and positive pictures varying in valence and arousal. The MMN reflects automatic detection of change in auditory stimulus stream. Functionally different N100 is triggered by onset of various auditory stimuli. The N100 was stabile during all visual conditions. The MMN was very similar during text reading, and neutral and negative slide viewing, but was significantly attenuated during viewing of positively valenced slides. We suggest that visual emotional information of high positive valence and low arousal is a signal of nonthreatening and nonappetitive environment. This kind of environment probably reduces the need for auditory change detection.
Visually evoked cortical potentials in awake cats during saccadic eye movements.	Visually evoked potentials (VEPs) measured under conditions of retinal image stabilization that minimized the influences of visual masking and smearing were averaged from electroencephalographic records measured from striate cortex of three cats. The amplitudes of the VEPs increased around saccade initiation. The grating-evoked potentials obtained at different times relative to the saccade exhibited changes in waveform shape that could be attributed to a saccade-evoked potential. The changes in the shape of the waveform were reasonably accounted for by the summation of the grating-evoked potential (produced when the cat did not make a saccade) and an appropriately timed saccade-evoked potential. The fundamental amplitudes of the residual potentials were computed and found to vary across the time course of the saccade. These observations suggest that there are other influences besides visual masking that are exerted early in the visual pathway to modulate visual processing during saccadic eye movements. A corollary discharge process is the most likely candidate to exert these influences.
The covert interplay between perception and memory: event-related potential evidence.	Neurocognitive models of visual object identification have focussed on processes at the moment of identification, when perceivers can actually name what they see. Less well known is the timecourse of processes preceding and leading to actual identification. To track neuromental processes involved in visual identification, behavioral measures and event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in two experiments prior to, during and after the identification of fragmented objects, half of which had been shown in their complete versions in a previous study phase. Each object was revealed in a sequence of frames wherein the object was represented by an increasingly less and less fragmented image up to the complete version. A shift in ERPs, around 300 ms and beyond, from negativity to positivity, marked the transition from non-identification to identification. However, while for new stimuli such a shift appeared abruptly from non-identification to identification, for recently-studied objects a late positive wave emerged in response to unidentified fragments at a level just prior to overt identification. Thus, ERPs reflected covert processes associated with a successful match between the current visual information and episodic recently-stored memory traces, which predicted overt identification.
The contralateral organization of visual memory: a theoretical concept and a research tool.	Contralateral-control methods can be applied to psychophysiology and in particular to the study of visual memory. Visual memory possesses some degree of hemispheric organization, so that visual memory traces for laterally presented stimuli are stronger or more durable in the hemisphere contralateral to the hemifield where the stimuli were first presented. I first introduce the concept of hemispheric organization of function. Then I discuss how hemispheric organization can be exploited for obtaining information about the time course and brain localization of psychological processes, using a contralateral-control method. Behavioral and event-related brain potential data support the hemispheric organization view of visual memory, and the contralateral-control method, in conjunction with the recording of the event-related optical signal, can be used to reveal the existence of memory-driven processes in early stations of the visual system.
ERPs and chronometry of face recognition: following-up Seeck et al. and George et al.	Seeck et al. found that event-related potentials (ERPs) evoked by repeated and non-repeated face photographs differ as early as 50-70ms post-onset. They thus suggested that faces are recognized at these latencies, in contrast with current opinions in ERP literature. However, the similar latencies obtained by George et al. for stimuli not perceived as faces suggest that Seeck et al.'s differences could index repetition rather than face recognition per se. To address this issue, we used matched faces of known and unknown persons. We found the earliest differences between the ERPs to these faces between 76 and 130 ms. These results, which are consistent with other data, suggest that the differentiation of faces takes approximately 100 ms of processing time in humans.
Event-related potentials during mental imagery.	Event-related potentials(ERPs) were measured while subjects were constructing mental images of a letter of the alphabet. Following presentation of an uppercase letter, subjects were asked to form a mental image of the same letter in lower case, and determine whether or not it had an ascending or descending stroke (ascender or descender). ERPs were measured in a passive condition and then compared with the ERPs recorded while the subjects performed the discrimination task. During the discrimination task, negative potentials were observed in left frontal, central and parietal areas around 220 ms after the stimulus onset. These early negative potentials were dominant in the left hemisphere and are probably related to working memory processes in mental image formation.
Distinct short-term memory systems for sound content and sound localization.	Short-term memory for sound content and sound localization was investigated in normal subjects using the same/different comparison of two sound stimuli separated by an interval. Auditory or visual interference tasks requiring recognition or spatial judgements were introduced in the interval. Auditory interference tasks reduced memory for sound content and sound location in a specific way. Memory for sound content was significantly more reduced by auditory recognition than by auditory spatial interference task. Visual interference tasks reduced significantly memory for sound location but not for sound content. These results suggest that (i) short-term memory for sound content and that for sound location involve partially distinct processing; and (ii) auditory spatial functions are more closely linked to visual functions than auditory recognition.
Right hemisphere language in a neurologically normal dextral: a fMRI study.	Dextrals with right cerebral hemisphere dominance for language are rare. Eight neurologically intact dextrals underwent BOLD-fMRI while being presented auditory and visual words. Fortuitously, in one subject, right hemisphere activations with visually presented words were seen in the inferior frontal, premotor regions together with predominantly left cerebellar activation. These were a mirror image of activations obtained from the seven other dextrals. Also mirrored was temporal activation from auditory words which extended more posteriorly on the right side than the left. These results showing mirror organization of language were replicated in another scanning session and also by using a second word task. Although rare, mirrored organization of language can occur in normal dextrals without penalizing language function.
Stimulus duration, neural adaptation, and sweep visual evoked potential acuity estimates.	Results in several studies have suggested that the visual evoked potential (VEP) amplitude can vary with stimulus duration. The purpose of this study was to determine whether acuity estimates obtained by extrapolation of the sweep VEP are altered by this adaptation effect.
Human primary visual cortex and lateral geniculate nucleus activation during visual imagery.	The functional magnetic resonance (fMRI) technique can be robustly used to map functional activation of the visual pathway including the primary visual cortex (V1), the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN), and other nuclei of humans during visual perception stimulation. One of the major controversies in visual neuroscience is whether lower-order visual areas involve the visual imagery process. This issue was examined using fMRI at high magnetic field. It was demonstrated for the first time that the LGN was activated during visual imagery process in the human brain together with V1 and other activation. There was a tight coupling of the activation between V1 and the LGN during visual imagery.
Relationship of specific EEG frequencies at specific brain areas with performance.	This study shows that incorrect responses are preceded by different EEG characteristics than correct responses, and that these differences appear in specific brain regions that participate in each particular task. EEGs were recorded in children during three different tasks: color discrimination (CDT), verbal working memory (VWM), and word categorization task (WCT). EEG segments previous to the presentation of the stimulus were analysed. Incorrect responses were preceded by lower EEG power values at 7.8 Hz in posterior temporal and right parietal leads in CDT, 8.59 and 9.36 Hz in frontal areas in VWM, and 10.72 Hz in the left hemisphere in WCT. In the former task > 1.56 Hz power in frontal areas prior to an incorrect response was also observed.
Column spacing in normal and visually deprived monkeys.	A recent model for the development of the pattern of eye-dominance domains in primary visual cortex predicts that stimulus conditions during early visual life determine the spacing (or periodicity) of ocular dominance columns (ODC). The model predicts that normal binocular visual experience consists of highly correlated binocular stimulation and leads to relatively narrow ODC spacing, while abnormal binocular visual stimulation attendant with strabismus consists of non-correlated, incoherent, and asynchronous stimulation and leads to wider than normal ODC spacing. Evidence in support of the model has been presented for strabismus in the kitten. We tested the predictions of the model in normal monkeys and others subjected to various forms of abnormal visual experience during infancy. We identified and measured the inter-column spacing (or periodicity) in the V1 cortex of 19 adult monkeys (M. mulatta) using the cytochrome-oxidase (CO) histochemical method. There were no significant differences in the V1 inter-column spacing between normal adult monkeys (n=5) and other adult monkeys having had monocular-form deprivation (n=5), experimental anisometropia (n=5), or experimental strabismus (n=4) early in life. The quality of early binocular visual experience is not a significant determinant of the inter-column spacing in primate V1 cortex. Therefore, the model predicting an increase in the ODC periodicity with strabismus is not supported.
Microsaccades differentially modulate neural activity in the striate and extrastriate visual cortex.	Saccadic eye movements in primates continually shift the location at which a given stimulus strikes the retina. Even during periods of steady fixation, microsaccades frequently jerk the center of gaze by small but resolvable distances, yet perception remains stable and continuous, uninterrupted by sudden jumps or shifts. The effect of such fixational eye movements on the activity of single neurons was examined in several regions of the visual cortex in macaque monkeys. We found that the firing of many neurons in striate and extrastriate cortex is profoundly influenced by saccades much smaller than the neurons' receptive fields. In striate cortex (V1) many cells showed a transient decrease in their firing shortly following a saccade. In sharp contrast, cells in the extrastriate areas V2 and V4 showed strong excitatory responses that closely coincided in time with the striate depression. No appreciable activity change was observed in the inferotemporal cortex (IT) following saccades. This activity pattern is consistent with the notion that topographic extrastriate areas receive extraretinal input associated with saccadic events. Such signals may be necessary for the stable perception of objects and scenes during eye movements, mediating the mapping between central object representations and the constantly changing retinotopic input.
Lateralized human cortical activity for shifting visuospatial attention and initiating saccades.	Lateralized human cortical activity for shifting visuospatial attention and initiating saccades. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 2900-2910, 1998. The relation between shifts of visual attention and saccade preparation was investigated by studying their electrophysiological correlates in human scalp-recorded electroencephalogram (EEG). Participants had to make saccades either to a saliently colored or to a gray circle, simultaneously presented in opposite visual hemifields, under different task instructions. EEG was measured within the short interval between stimulus onset and saccade, focusing on lateralized activity, contralateral either to the side of the relevant stimulus or to the direction of the saccade. Three components of lateralization were found: 1) activity contralateral to the relevant stimulus irrespective of saccade direction, peaking 250 ms after stimulus onset, largest above lateral parietal sites, 2) activity contralateral to the relevant stimulus if the stimulus was also the target of the saccade, largest 330-480 ms after stimulus onset, widespread over the scalp but with a focus again above lateral parietal sites, and 3) activity contralateral to saccade direction, beginning about 100 ms before the saccade, largest above mesial parietal sites, with some task-dependent fronto-central contribution. Because of their sensitivity to task variables, component 1 is interpreted as the shifting of attention to the relevant stimulus, component 2 is interpreted as reflecting the enhancement of the attentional shift if the relevant stimulus is also the saccade target, and component 3 is interpreted as the triggering signal for saccade execution. Thus human neurophysiological data provided evidence both for independent and interdependent processes of saccade preparation and shifts of visual attention.
Neurotransmitter involvement in development and maintenance of the auditory space map in the guinea pig superior colliculus.	Neurotransmitter involvement in development and maintenance of the auditory space map in the guinea pig superior colliculus. J. Neurophysiol. 80: 2941-2953, 1998. The mammalian superior colliculus (SC) is a complex area of the midbrain in terms of anatomy, physiology, and neurochemistry. The SC bears representations of the major sensory modalites integrated with a motor output system. It is implicated with saccade generation, in behavioral responses to novel sensory stimuli and receives innervation from diverse regions of the brain using many neurotransmitter classes. Ethylene-vinyl acetate copolymer (Elvax-40W polymer) was used here to deliver chronically neurotransmitter receptor antagonists to the SC of the guinea pig to investigate the potential role played by the major neurotransmitter systems in the collicular representation of auditory space. Slices of polymer containing different drugs were implanted onto the SC of guinea pigs before the development of the SC azimuthal auditory space map, at approximately 20 days after birth (DAB). A further group of animals was exposed to aminophosphonopentanoic acid (AP5) at approximately 250 DAB. Azimuthal spatial tuning properties of deep layer multiunits of anesthetized guinea pigs were examined approximately 20 days after implantation of the Elvax polymer. Broadband noise bursts were presented to the animals under anechoic, free-field conditions. Neuronal responses were used to construct polar plots representative of the auditory spatial multiunit receptive fields (MURFs). Animals exposed to control polymer could develop a map of auditory space in the SC comparable with that seen in unimplanted normal animals. Exposure of the SC of young animals to AP5, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, or atropine, resulted in a reduction in the proportion of spatially tuned responses with an increase in the proportion of broadly tuned responses and a degradation in topographic order. Thus N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA glutamate receptors and muscarinic acetylcholine receptors appear to play vital roles in the development of the SC auditory space map. A group of animals exposed to AP5 beginning at approximately 250 DAB produced results very similar to those obtained in the young group exposed to AP5. Thus NMDA glutamate receptors also seem to be involved in the maintenance of the SC representation of auditory space in the adult guinea pig. Exposure of the SC of young guinea pigs to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor blocking agents produced some but not total disruption of the spatial tuning of auditory MURFs. Receptive fields were large compared with controls, but a significant degree of topographical organization was maintained. GABA receptors may play a role in the development of fine tuning and sharpening of auditory spatial responses in the SC but not necessarily in the generation of topographical order of the these responses.
Area V4 in Cebus monkey: extent and visuotopic organization.	We used electrophysiological mapping and myeloarchitectural criteria in order to define the location, extent and visual topography of the fourth visual area (V4) in anesthetized and paralyzed Cebus monkey. Based on these criteria, the borders of V4 with surrounding areas were defined both on the dorsal and ventral cortical surfaces. In addition, to better visualize the visuotopic organization and to evaluate its regularity, we constructed bidimensional maps and projected the recording sites onto them. Area V4 has an almost complete representation of the binocular visual field with the lower visual field represented dorsally (V4d) and the upper field ventrally (V4v). We found this representation to be more extensive than those previously described. The representation of the central portion of the visual field is largely expanded in comparison with that of the periphery. This emphasis in central vision could be related with the involvement of V4 in the ventral stream of visual information processing. Receptive field size increases with increasing eccentricity, while cortical magnification factor decreases. The cortical magnification factor measured along isopolar lines is, on average, 1.5-2.0 times greater than that measured along the isoeccentric lines, suggesting the existence of a small anisotropy in central and peripheral V4.
Electrophysiological localization of brain regions involved in perceptual memory.	Event-related potentials (ERP) were recorded during perceptual discrimination and short-term memory, varying the interstimulus interval (1-10 s) in delayed spatial frequency discrimination. Accuracy of discrimination remained unimpaired across this time interval, but choice reaction times increased. A brain source localization (BESA) model showed that the activity of the parietal and right temporal sources increased with long retention intervals in a sequential activation pattern where a long-latency component of the parietal source specific to the memory condition was observed, the latency of which matched a memory-related increase in choice reaction times in the cognitive task. It is suggested that the temporal sources are involved in encoding and storage of visual information, and the parietal source is involved in memory retrieval.
Random dots blinking: a new approach to elucidate the activities of the extrastriate cortex in humans.	To investigate cortical activities related to the visual recognition of characters, we recorded the magnetoencephalography (MEG) in six normal subjects who were encouraged to discriminate capital English letters displayed for a brief period. To reduce the primary responses evoked by the luminance change in the striate cortex (V1), we used a novel stimulus method, random dots blinking (RDB), by means of the temporal changes of patterns using a large number of small random dots. Along with the MEG recording, we also measured the discrimination accuracy rate (%) to know how well the subjects recognized the letters. One clear component, about 300 ms in peak latency, was identified in all six subjects. Its peak amplitude and the discrimination accuracy rate increased similarly as the character display duration became longer. Its signal source was estimated in the extrastriate cortex, around the fusiform gyrus, in the right hemisphere. We suspect that the activity in these cortical areas has strong relation to the conscious perception of characters.
