Time course of the effects of prenatal gamma irradiation on the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of Swiss mice.	A previous study reported that adult mice irradiated at the 16th embryonic day present a severe neuronal number reduction in the dorsal lateral geniculate thalamic nucleus. In the present study, we investigated the time course of the effects of prenatal irradiation on this thalamic nucleus. One day after irradiation, a great number of pyknotic figures were seen mainly in the cerebral proliferative zones. In the geniculate nucleus, only scattered pyknotic figures were identified. On the first week after birth, the geniculate nucleus presented frequent pyknotic figures. From five days after birth onwards, a severe shrinkage of the occipital cortex and a great reduction in the geniculate nucleus neuronal number were found. On the second week after birth this neuronal number reduction reached as high as 75%. At each postnatal analyzed age, severe volumetric geniculate nucleus shrinkage was combined to non-significant neuronal density variations. The presence of few pyknotic figures in the geniculate nucleus one day after irradiation and its delayed neuronal loss indicate an indirect effect of irradiation. We suggest that the effect upon the geniculate nucleus is secondary to the damage of the occipital cortex. A possible interpretation for thalamic neuronal loss is that geniculate neurons fail to establish cortical arbors after major target loss. In this case, the loss of trophic support should also be considered.
Functional activation of microgyric visual cortex in a human.	We report on the case of a 20-year-old man with bilateral parasagittal parieto-occipital polymicrogyria and epilepsy. Functional magnetic resonance imaging responses to reversing checkerboard and interhemispheric electroencephalogram coherence changes to moving gratings were investigated. Results of both studies indicate that the polymicrogyric cortex was activated by visual stimuli, suggesting preserved function in the dysplastic area.
Immature cortex lesions alter retinotopic maps and interhemispheric connections.	Unilateral lesions of the occipital visual areas performed on postnatal day 5 (P5) in the ferret are not compensated by the appearance, in the lesioned hemisphere, of visual responses at ectopic locations. Instead, when parts of the visual areas are spared, they show abnormal retinotopic organizations; furthermore, callosal connections are abnormally distributed in relation to the retinotopic maps. Lesions that completely eliminate the visual areas including the posterior parietal cortex cause the appearance of abnormal callosal connections from the primary somatosensory cortex on the lesion side to the contralateral, intact, posterior parietal cortex. The occipital visual areas (17, 18, 19, and 21) of the intact hemisphere show a normal retinotopy but lose callosal connections in territories homotopic to the lesions. These findings clarify the nature and limits of structural developmental plasticity in the visual cortex. Early in life, certain regions of cortex have been irreversibly allocated to the visual areas, but two properties defining the areas, that is, retinotopy and connections, remain modifiable. The findings might be relevant for understanding the consequences of early-onset visual cortical lesions in humans.
Early visual cortex organization in autism: an fMRI study.	Autism is a neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by preserved visual abilities as well as a special profile for visual cognition. We examined the visual cortex of high-ability individuals with autism in order to assess whether the presence of abnormalities at the primary sensory level in autism could be the basis of their unusual pattern of visual cognitive abilities. We found that the early sensory visual areas are normally organized in individuals with autism, with a normal ratio between central versus peripheral visual field representation. We conclude that the differences observed in the visual capacities of individuals with autism are likely to arise from higher-level cognitive areas and functions, and are the result of top-down processes.
The layout of functional maps in area 18 of strabismic cats.	Strabismus (or squint) is both a well-established model for developmental plasticity and a frequent clinical symptom. To analyze experience-dependent plasticity of functional maps in the brain we used optical imaging of intrinsic signals to visualize both orientation and ocular dominance domains in cat area 18. In strabismic animals, iso-orientation domains exhibited a pinwheel-like organization, as previously described for area 18 of normally raised animals and for area 17 of both normally raised and strabismic cats. In area 18, mean pinwheel density was similar in the experimental (2.2 pinwheel centers per mm2 cortical surface) and control animals (2.3/mm2 in normally raised animals), but significantly lower than in area 17 of both normally raised and strabismic cats (2.7-3.4/mm2). A comparison of orientation and ocular dominance domains revealed that iso-orientation domains were continuous across the borders of ocular dominance domains and tended to cross these borders at steep angles. Thus, the orientation map does not seem to be modified by experience-dependent changes in afferent activity. Together with our recent observation that strabismus does not enhance the segregation of ocular dominance domains in cat area 18, the present data indicate that the layout of functional maps in area 18 is less susceptible to experience-dependent manipulations than in area 17.
