Neurogenesis in the adult rat dentate gyrus is enhanced by vitamin E deficiency.	Neurogenesis occurs throughout adult life in rat dentate gyrus. Factors and mechanisms of adult neurogenesis regulation are not well known. Vitamin E deficiency has been found to deliver a neurogenetic potential in rat dorsal root ganglia. To determine whether the role of tocopherols in adult neurogenesis may be generalized to the central nervous system, changes in adult rat dentate gyrus neurogenesis were investigated in vitamin E deficiency. Neurogenesis was quantitatively studied by determination of the density of 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-labeled cells and by determination of the total number of cells in the granule cell layer. The BrdU-labeled cells were immunocytochemically characterized by demonstration of neuronal marker calbindin D28K. The following results were found: (1) the volume of the granule layer increased in controls from 1 to 5 months of age, mainly due to cell density decrease; (2) the volume increased by a similar amount in vitamin E-deficient rats, mainly because of an increase in cell number; (3) BrdU-positive cells were more numerous in vitamin E-deficient rats in comparison to age-matched controls; (4) the increase in proliferated cells was located in the hilus and in the plexiform layer. This study confirms that neurogenesis occurs within adult dentate gyrus and demonstrates that this process is enhanced in vitamin E deficiency. This finding indicates that vitamin E may be an exogenous factor regulating adult neurogenesis.
Aging and vitamin E deficiency are responsible for altered RNA pathways.	Fibrillar centers (FCs), dense fibrillar (DFC) and granular (GC) components in nucleoli, and perichromatin granules (PGs) in nucleoplasm were measured by morphometry. FC size and their nucleolar surface fraction significantly decreased in aging and vitamin E deficiency. The GC and DFC nucleolar fraction was unchanged in adult and old rats, but in vitamin E-deficient animals GC increased and DFC decreased significantly. PG density significantly increased in aging and decreased in vitamin E deficiency. The quantitative evaluation of immunolabeled transcription and splicing factors revealed that polymerase II and SC-35 significantly decreased in old and vitamin E-deficient versus adult animals. Fibrillarin and snRNPs did not change between adult and old rats, but were significantly lower in vitamin E-deficient rats. These data document altered RNA pathways in aging and vitamin E deficiency. Considering the antioxidant role of vitamin E, they lend further support to the importance of free radical production and control in the aging process.
Experimental vitamin E deficiency in rats. Morphological and functional evidence of abnormal axonal transport secondary to free radical damage.	Morphological and functional studies have been performed on experimental vitamin E deficient rats. The predominant morphological change was axonal dystrophy and degeneration in the rostral parts of the dorsal columns, particularly in the gracile fasciculi. The dystrophic changes comprised focal axonal swellings containing accumulations of normal and abnormal organelles which included tubulovesicular structures probably derived from the smooth endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, dense lamellar bodies, neurofilaments, multifascicular bodies and lysosomes. Similar but lesser changes were observed in distal peripheral nerves. The appearances suggested a disturbance of axonal transport with a defect of 'turnaround' in the distal axons. Studies on the axonal transport of endogenous acetylcholinesterase showed an impairment both of fast anterograde and retrograde transport. The changes were considered to be secondary to the lack of the antioxidant effect of vitamin E as the neurological deficits could be reduced by the concomitant dietary administration of the synthetic antioxidant ethoxyquin and were markedly aggravated by the administration of polyunsaturated fatty acids. It is suggested that the neurological syndrome produced by vitamin E deficiency could be the result of damage to the function of mitochondria and other intra-axonal membranous structures which would interfer both with fast anterograde transport and 'turnaround' and lead to a distal axonal degeneration.
Muscle pathology in Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome and vitamin E deficiency.	A constellation of histologic abnormalities was demonstrated in the quadriceps femoris muscle of a 29-year-old man with Bassen-Kornzweig syndrome. The abnormalities consisted of fibers containing dense lipid inclusions ceroid and lipofuscin, a spectrum of fiber size, architectural changes, and an increase in central nuclei. A dramatic shift of fiber type predominance, from type I to type II, was demonstrated in the myosin ATPase reactions one year after vitamin E therapy. Despite an apparent reduction in the number of fibers containing lipid and ceroid granules in the second biopsy, neuromyopathic changes worsened. The relationship of these findings to vitamin E therapy is discussed.
Progressive neuropathologic lesions in vitamin E-deficient rhesus monkeys.	A consistent group of progressive central and peripheral nervous system lesions developed in seven rhesus monkeys maintained on a vitamin E-deficient diet for 30 to 33 months. These lesions were absent from vitamin E-supplemented monkeys. The principal neuropathologic alteration was loss of sensory axons in the posterior columns, sensory roots, and peripheral nerves. Morphologic and morphometric studies indicated that the distal segments of the axons were affected most severely and large-caliber myelinated fibers are selectively involved. Swollen, dystrophic axons (spheroids) occurred infrequently. Degeneration and phagocytosis of small numbers of neuronal perikarya were observed in the dorsal root ganglia and the anterior horns. The number of affected neurons was not proportional to the number of affected axons. Accumulation of lipopigment was evident in neuronal perikarya and CNS endothelial cells. The nervous system lesion were usually accompanied by a chronic necrotizing myopathy. The neuropathologic lesions in vitamin E-deficient monkeys are compared with those in vitamin E-deficient rats and in humans with low serum vitamin E concentrations. A similar type of sensory axonopathy is associated with chronic deficiency of vitamin E in these three species.
Increased number of sciatic sensory neurons in vitamin-E-deficient rats.	The number and morphometric characteristics of sciatic sensory neurons were studied in Vitamin-E-deficient rats. Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was injected into the sciatic nerves of normal and vitamin-E-deficient rats of the same age, and retrogradely labeled sensory neurons were counted and measured. The study was also carried out in rats that had previously undergone sciatic nerve crush, in order to observe the effects of axotomy on primary sensory neurons. In vitamin-E-deficient rats the number of sciatic sensory neurons was significantly higher than normal, with an increase of about 30%, in agreement with a previous finding concerning total population of primary sensory neurons in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) of vitamin-E-deficient rats. The increase involved the small cell classes in particular. Axotomy induced similar percentages of neuron loss in normal and in vitamin-E-deficient rats (about 40%). In the latter, death affected small cell classes in particular--that is, the same classes that had increased in number in vitamin-E-deficient rats by comparison with controls. These results, together with previous findings, suggest that neurogenesis may occur in DRGs of vitamin-E-deficient rats.
Increased number of dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitamin-E-deficient rats.	Quantitative and morphometric observations were carried out on neurons of L3-L6 dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) in control and vitamin-E-deficient rats at different ages. Controls were fed a standard diet and sacrificed at 1 or at 5 months of age; deficient rats were fed a diet without vitamin E from 1 to 5 months of age and then sacrificed. No significant difference in total number of neurons was found, but an increase in neuron sizes, a decrease in nucleus-cytoplasm ratio, and a more circular neuron shape were found in controls with increasing age (from 1 to 5 months). In L3-L6 DRGs of vitamin-E-deficient rats (5 months of age), a higher number of neurons was found than in those of either young or adult controls. Moreover, some morphometric characteristics of neurons in the deficient rats were similar to those of neurons in 1-month-old controls. The findings suggest that vitamin E deficiency can trigger events resulting in appearance of new neurons, possibly anticipating phenomena that normally occur in aging.
Encephalomalacia associated with vitamin E deficiency in commercially raised emus.	Thirteen of 64 emus on a commercial emu farm in Ohio exhibited neurological signs that included backward staggering, incoordination, generalized weakness, and sitting on their hocks with head retracted backward. Eight of the birds showing such signs were found dead. Two of these emus were necropsied, and no significant gross lesions were observed. Major histopathological lesions were found in the cerebellum and included multiple malacic foci in association with neuropil rarefaction and astrogliosis within the white matter of folia. In addition, the hepatic vitamin E level of one emu was determined at the Michigan State University Animal Health Diagnostic Laboratory (MSU-AHDL) to be 14.61 micrograms/g dry weight. This vitamin E level was in the lower percentile (35%) of 30 emu liver samples examined at MSU-AHDL. A diagnosis of vitamin E-associated encephalomalacia was made based on clinical signs, gross and histological lesions, and liver vitamin E levels.
