Vitamin B-6 deficiency suppresses the hepatic transsulfuration pathway but increases glutathione concentration in rats fed AIN-76A or AIN-93G diets.	The transsulfuration pathway, which aids in regulating homocysteine concentration and mediates cysteine synthesis, may be sensitive to vitamin B-6 status because cystathionine beta-synthase (CBS) and cystathionine gamma-lyase (CGL) require pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP). To assess relations between vitamin B-6 and transsulfuration, we evaluated the effects of dietary pyridoxine (PN) on the hepatic concentration of relevant metabolites and in vitro activity of CBS and CGL. Growing rats were fed AIN-93G- or AIN-76A-based diets that ranged from adequate to deficient in vitamin B-6 (2, 1, 0.5, 0.1, or 0 mg of PN/kg diet, n = 5). This design allowed assessment of the effects of supplemental methionine (AIN-76A) vs. cysteine (AIN-93G) in common research diets over a range of vitamin B-6 levels. CBS activity, assayed in the presence or absence of added S-adenosylmethionine, was independent of diet type and PN level. CGL activity was independent of diet type but proportional to dietary PN. Rats fed deficient (0 and 0.1 mg PN/kg) diets exhibited only approximately 30% of the CGL activity of those fed the 2 mg PN/kg diets. Hepatic cystathionine increased from 20 to 30 nmol/g for the 1-2 mg PN/kg diets to approximately 85 nmol/g for the 0 mg PN/kg diet; however, cysteine was reduced only in B-6-deficient rats consuming the AIN-93G diet (means of 30-40 nmol/g for adequate to 11.6 nmol/g for 0 mg PN/kg AIN-76A diet). In spite of these effects, hepatic glutathione concentration increased in vitamin B-6 deficiency. These results suggest that vitamin B-6-dependent changes in transsulfuration do not limit hepatic glutathione production.
Vitamin B6 status of Finnish elderly. Comparison with Dutch younger adults and elderly. The effect of supplementation.	About 25% of Finnish and Dutch elderly appeared to be more or less deficient in vitamin B6 as compared to younger adults. Deficiency was observed at the cellular (PLP, EGOT and alpha-EGOT) as well as at the plasma level (PLP). The benefit of a one-year daily supplementation with 2 mg of pyridoxine-HCl was investigated at the biochemical and psychological level as compared to a placebo group. After one year, none of the supplemented elderly was deficient in biochemical terms. At the psychological level and at the level of general well-being, the elderly supplemented with vitamin B6 showed slight improvements. However, for the psychological variables significant correlations with the vitamin B6 parameters were not observed. Plasma fatty acids (e.g. gamma-linolenic acid) showed no correlation with the vitamin B6 status.
The use of preparations of methazid combined with riboflavin and pyridoxine for the correction of methazid-induced metabolic disorders of the B-group vitamins in rats]	It was established that 10-day administration of suppository methazide (20 mg per 100 g b. w.) induces B2 vitamin deficiency indicated by relevant hepatic and plasmic values. In vitamin B2 deficiency methazide-induced changes in vitamin B6 metabolism are less marked in rats provided with riboflavin. Use of suppository methazide in combination with riboflavin (100 micrograms per animal which is a recommended daily dose) prevents B2 deficiency. It is recommended daily use combinations of methazide with riboflavin or piridoxin in essential daily consumption doses to treat patients with alimentary vitamin B2 and B6 deficiencies. This will not only prevent side effects of methazide, but also help to overcome deficiency of the above vitamins.
