Action of vitamin D on mineralization]	The effects of 1,25 (OH) (2)D on bone mineralization appear to be indirect by stimulating the calcium and phosphate supply, mainly by absorption from intestine. The disturbance in vitamin D action results in rickets in infancy and osteomalacia in adults. An association has been recently reported between mild vitamin D insufficiency and decreased bone mineral density in the elderly, which enhances the importance of appropriate vitamin D intake.
Osteoporosis and alcohol intake]	Current understanding suggests that moderate quantities of alcohol use may have beneficial effects on bone mineral density, irrespective of age and sex, and would not be a risk factor of osteoporotic fracture. Heavy alcohol intake or alcoholism, however, frequently disrupts calcium and bone homeostasis, which leads to reduce bone mineral density and increase the incidence of fragility fracture. Since the habits of alcohol intake is closely associated with other diet and lifestyle factors, the exact mechanism underlying alcohol-related bone loss still remained to be clarified. The effects of alcohol use on osteoporosis should be studied more in detail.
Elevated blood lead concentrations and vitamin D deficiency in winter and summer in young urban children.	It is widely recognized that blood lead concentrations are higher in the summer than in winter. Although the effects of some environmental factors such as lead in dust on this phenomenon have been studied, relationships to sunlight-induced vitamin D synthesis have not been adequately investigated. Vitamin D status is influenced by the diet, sunlight exposure, age, skin pigmentation, and other factors, and may modify gastrointestinal lead absorption or release of lead stored in bones into the bloodstream.
Some musculo-skeletal sequelae in cancer survivors.	This paper deals with some of the musculo-skeletal complication that can occur after cancer treatment. In particular, we focus on Cancer Treatment Induced Bone Loss (CTIBL) and the musculo-skeletal complications that can occur in patients treated for extremity sarcoma. In addition we discuss peripheral neuropathy, musculo-skeletal pain and briefly mention some of the complications related to radiotherapy. CTIBL is mostly studied in breast cancer and prostate cancer survivors. The cause in these groups is mainly due to treatment induced hypogonadism. Other causes of CTIBL are indirect or direct cause of chemotherapy, physical inactivity and inadequate intake of vitamin D and calcium. Treatment of CTIBL consists of diet and lifestyle changes and pharmacological intervention. Extremity bone sarcomas constitute a special group since they often experience mutilating surgery and heavy combination chemotherapy. The treatment results in worse function than the normal population and the amputated usually have lower physical functioning than patients treated with limb sparing surgery (LSS). However, most studies fail to show differences in quality of life between the amputated and LSS. Most of the studies performed on musculo-skeletal sequelae have been done on survivors of childhood cancer, breast cancer or prostate cancer. More studies among the other cancer groups are needed to reveal the extent and prevalence of these complications.
A synergistic interaction between the teratogenic effect of trypan blue and dietary deficiency in the rat.	There was an increased incidence, compared to controls, of exencephaly and microphthalmia in the offspring of rats fed a vitamin D deficient diet and injected with trypan blue on day 9 of gestation. Oral vitamin D did not reverse the effect.
An uncommon cause of hypocalcemic convulsion: congenital rickets. Case report]	Vitamin D deficiency and rickets are major health problems in developing countries. Congenital rickets is a rare form of rickets. Maternal vitamin D deficiency is the most important risk factor for vitamin D deficiency and rickets in newborns and early infancy. In this report, we presented a two-month old infant with seizures while hospitalized for pulmonary infection. Finally, congenital rickets due to maternal vitamin D deficiency was diagnosed.
Primary vitamin D target genes allow a categorization of possible benefits of vitamin D₃ supplementation.	Vitamin D deficiency has been associated with an increased risk of developing a number of diseases. Here we investigated samples from 71 pre-diabetic individuals of the VitDmet study, a 5-month high dose vitamin D3 intervention trial during Finnish winter, for their changes in serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25(OH)D3) concentrations and the expression of primary vitamin D target genes in peripheral blood mononuclear cells and adipose tissue. A negative correlation between serum concentrations of parathyroid hormone and 25(OH)D3 suggested an overall normal physiological vitamin D response among the participants. The genes CD14 and thrombomodulin (THBD) are up-regulated primary vitamin D targets and showed to be suitable gene expression markers for vitamin D signaling in both primary tissues. However, in a ranking of the samples concerning their expected response to vitamin D only the top half showed a positive correlation between the changes of CD14 or THBD mRNA and serum 25(OH)D3 concentrations. Interestingly, this categorization allows unmasking a negative correlation between changes in serum concentrations of 25(OH)D3 and the inflammation marker interleukin 6. We propose the genes CD14 and THBD as transcriptomic biomarkers, from which the effects of a vitamin D3 supplementation can be evaluated. These biomarkers allow the classification of subjects into those, who might benefit from a vitamin D3 supplementation, and others who do not. 
Serum vitamin D levels in postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes mellitus]	To investigate the correlation between serum vitamin D levels and index of glucose and lipid metabolism in postmenopausal women with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
Effect of 1,25,28-trihydroxyvitamin D2 and 1,24,25-trihydroxyvitamin D3 on intestinal calbindin-D9K mRNA and protein: is there a correlation with intestinal calcium transport?	Although analogs and metabolites of vitamin D have been tested for their calciotropic activity, very little information has been available concerning the effects of these compounds on gene expression. In this study one analog of vitamin D, 1,25,28-trihydroxyvitamin D2 [1,25,28-(OH)3D2], and one metabolite, 1,24,25-trihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,24,25-(OH)3D3], were tested for their effect on intestinal calbindin-D9K mRNA and protein as well as for their effect on intestinal calcium absorption and bone calcium mobilization. These compounds were also evaluated for their ability to compete for rat intestinal 1,25-(OH)2D3 receptor sites and to induce differentiation of human leukemia (HL-60) cells as indicated by reduction of nitro blue tetrazolium. In vivo studies involved intrajugular injection of 12.5 ng 1,25-(OH)2D3 or test compound to vitamin D-deficient rats and sacrifice after 18 h. 1,25,28-Trihydroxyvitamin D2 had no effect on intestinal calcium absorption, bone calcium mobilization, or intestinal calbindin-D9K protein and mRNA. Competitive binding to 1,25-(OH)2D3 receptors was 0.8% of that observed using 1,25-(OH)2D3. However, 20- and 40-fold higher doses of 1,25,28-(OH)3D2 (250 and 500 ng) resulted in significant inductions in calbindin-D9K protein and mRNA (3.5 to 7.4-fold), although doses as high as 800 ng were found to have no effect on intestinal calcium absorption or bone calcium mobilization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
