"Whippets"-induced cobalamin deficiency manifesting as cervical myelopathy.	Nitrous oxide (N2O) is inhaled in anesthesia and as a recreational drug from whipped cream dispensers. Its abuse reaches approximately 10% in some age groups. By inactivating cobalamin (Cbl) (vitamin B12), N2O can cause neurologic and hematologic manifestations. We present a case of N2O-induced Cbl deficiency presenting as cervical myelopathy.
Helicobacter pylori can in rare cases be the cause of iron and vitamin B 12 deficiency. No increased risk of iron and vitamin B 12 deficiency due to proton pump inhibitors]	This article reviews iron and vitamin B12 malabsorption due to the use of proton pump inhibitors (PPI) and infection with Helicobacter pylori. The bacterium is in some studies associated with low serum values of both ferritin and cobalamin and has in several cases been shown to cause reversible deficiency of these nutrients. PPI depresses absorption of vitamin B12, but only one case of deficiency has been reported in standard reflux therapy. Case reports exist of PPI-related iron deficiency, but studies have not confirmed these risks. General substitution with iron or B12 supplements in PPI therapy can't be advocated. The safety of long-term use of PPI is well documented, but it is still unclear whether PPI accelerates the development of atrophic corpus gastritis in the presence of H pylori.
Acute neurological disclosure of B12 avitaminosis induced by folic acid administration]	A paradigmatic case of acute combined spinal cord degeneration and delirium due to inappropriate administration of folic acid in the context of chronic cobalamin deficiency is described. Rapid improvement was obtained with immediate cessation of folate administration and parenteral cobalamin supplementation. Folic acid and cobalamin prescription rules are recalled. Pathophysiological hypotheses tentatively explaining the neurotoxicity of folic acid in case of vitamin B12 deficiency are summarized.
Postoperative dementia: toxicity of nitrous oxide]	Post-operative neuropsychiatric manifestations represent a frequent situation and may be due to several aetiologies. The responsibility of vitamin B12 deficiency must be evoked, especially in case of anaesthesia with a currently used substance: nitrous oxide.
Nitrous oxide "whippit" abuse presenting with cobalamin responsive psychosis.	Nitrous oxide is a commonly abused inhalant drug. It is known to precipitate vitamin B12 deficiency when used chronically and acutely, especially in people having marginal vitamin B12 reserve.
Risk of long-term treatment with proton pump inhibitors]	Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) have become the mainstay of therapy in acid-related upper gastrointestinal disorders including gastroesophageal reflux disease and peptic ulcer disease. Alltough these medications are generally accepted as safe, the long-term clinical consequences of the inducing hypochlorhydria are not completely clear. Gastric acid production is mainly controlled by the hormone gastrin through a negative feedback in which hypochlorhydria induces an increase in serum gastrin. PPIs have been shown to increase serum gastrin levels. Gastric endocrine cell hyperplasia can occur in 10 to 30% of patients without carcinoid tumors. Recent studies indicate no association between PPI use and the risk of colorectal and gastric cancers. Proton pump inhibitor-associated gastric polyps are totally benign tumors that should not be followed. There is an association between PPIs-induced acid suppression and an increased risk of enteric infection. PPIs do not inhibit intestinal absorption of lipids, iron, phosphorus, magnesium or zinc from food but can affect vitamin B12 status in older patients. Despite the undoubted benefits of PPIs, the practitioner always needs to consider risks and benefits before initiating them.
Vitamin B12 deficiency due to nitrous oxide use: unrecognized cause of combined spinal cord degeneration]	Nitrous oxide is widely used in anesthesia. It is usually safe but may be associated with severe side effects when it is used repeatedly or on a prolonged time. Here, we report a case of drug-induced subacute combined spinal cord degeneration related to cobalamin deficiency.
Peripheral nerve conduction in the fruit bat with nitrous oxide induced vitamin b12 deficiency.	Fruit bats Rousettus aegyptiacus were depleted of vitamin B12 by exposure to the gas nitrous oxide (N2O-oxygen, 1:1 v/v) for 57-80 days. Conduction velocities along the fastest fibres of the ulnar nerve, as well as the first and second peaks, were similar in control and vitamin b12 depleted animals. It is concluded that neurological impairment resulting from depletion of vitamin B12 by N2O does not involve significant impairment of ulnar nerve function in this species.
The role of methionine and vitamin B12 in folate incorporation by rat liver.	The decreased folate uptake induced by exposure of rats to nitrous oxide can be partly reversed by methionine supplementation. This is consistent with the theory that N2O inhibits methylcobalamin-dependent methionine synthetase (EC 2.1.1.13) in rat liver and previous observations showing decreased folate incorporation in rats made nutritionally vitamin B12 deficient.
Effect of colchicine on guinea pig intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 receptor.	Colchicine can induce the malabsorption of vitamin B12 and other nutrients. Previous investigations have suggested but not proved that this malabsorption was due to a lesion in the ileal mucosa. Employing the receptor assay of M. Katz and B. A. Cooper (J Clin Invest 54:733-739, 1974), the authors have observed a dose-related, reversible reduction in the quantity of intrinsic factor-vitamin B12 (IF-B12) receptor (from 5.78 ng to 1.3 ng of B12 binding) in the intestinal mucosa of guinea pigs fed 0.05-0.25 mg/100 g colchicine/day for 3 days. Malabsorption of vitamin B12 was also demonstrated in vivo in similarly treated animals. Increasing intestinal motility with cascara sagrada had no effect on the IF-B12 receptor. The quantity of IF-B12 receptor and the amount of vitamin B12 absorbed increased markedly to greater than normal levels during recovery from a 3-day course of colchicine. The total number of intestinal cells decreased after colchicine administration and increased during recovery; however, the fluctuations observed were not sufficient to explain the changes in the quantity of receptor. Histologic examination of the ileal mucosa showed a decrease in the population of villus cells after colchicine. The correlation between the changes in receptor quantity and in vivo B12-absorption prove that the IF-B12 receptor is a critical limiting factor in B12 absorption.
Myelotoxic, neurotoxic and reproductive adverse effects of nitrous oxide.	N2O is a relatively safe general anaesthetic under normal medical and dental anaesthetic use. It is more likely to produce megaloblastosis or neuropathy when used repetitively or for periods longer than 3 hours or in individuals with vitamin B12 deficiencies. The mechanism responsible for its myelotoxicity, neurotoxicity and most likely its reproductive toxicity, involves its inhibition of MetSyn and the resulting reduction in SAM and THF levels. Administration of folinic acid or methionine have been shown to protect against megaloblastosis and neurotoxicity occurring following N2O administration. Occupational N2O exposure of medical and dental personnel during its use as an analgesic is not likely to produce adverse reproductive outcomes except in B12-deficient individuals or in those routinely exposed to high N2O levels.
