Osteopenia in anorexia nervosa: specific mechanisms of bone loss.	Osteopenia is a well recognized medical complication of anorexia nervosa (AN). The mechanism of bone loss is not fully understood and there is uncertainty about its management. New markers of bone turnover have been developed. C-terminal type 1 propeptide (PICP) is a measure of bone formation and urinary pyridinolines such as deoxypyridinoline (DPYRX) and serum carboxyterminal crosslinked telopeptide (ICTP) are markers of bone resorption. The aim of this study was to examine these bone markers in patients with AN. Twenty female patients with AN and 12 healthy controls were included in the study. Bone mineral density (BMD) of AN patients was measured by dual energy X-ray absorptiometry (DEXA). Lumbar bone density was significantly reduced in the AN group compared to standardised values of thirty year old adults (t-score 83.2%, S.D. 12.1). Femoral neck bone density showed an even greater reduction (t-score 79.4%, S.D. 13.5). We found a significant negative correlation between femoral BMD and the duration of the illness. Femoral BMD correlated significantly with minimal body weight (r(16) = 0.504, p = 0.033). The markers of bone resorption were significantly higher in the patients with AN compared to the values of the control group (ICTP t(30) = -2.15, p = 0.04, DPYRX t(25) = -2.26, p = 0.033), whereas the markers of bone formation did not differ significantly between the groups. AN appears to be a low turn over state associated with increased bone resorption without concomitant bone formation. This pattern differs from osteopenia in menopausal women and should, therefore, lead to the development of specific therapeutic strategies in AN associated osteopenia. Hormone replacement therapy as well as calcium and vitamine D-supplementation are so far discussed controversially. Long-term treatment studies are warranted.
Vitamin D nutrition and bone disease in adults.	The consequences of vitamin D deficiency upon the skeleton are well known and management in the absence of renal failure is relatively straightforward. Vitamin D, either by mouth or parenterally will correct the deficiency and heal the osteomalacia. The mechanisms underlying the causation of vitamin D deficiency are now better understood and indicate the importance of underlying calcium malabsorption and secondary hyperparathyroidism leading to 1,25(OH)2D-induced catabolism of 25(OH)D and possibly also of vitamin D itself. In such situations, e.g., gastrointestinal and pancreaticobiliary disease, calcium supplementation in addition to vitamin D is indicated. The reasons behind nutritional vitamin D deficiency and the possible role of meat in protecting from osteomalacia await further elucidation, but from epidemiological studies, calcium deficiency, per se, is not implicated in the etiopathogenesis. The concept of vitamin D insufficiency is poorly understood, and difficult to define since a single value or close range of serum 25(OH)D values is unlikely to predict the needs of all subjects. Oral calcium intake and renal function are also likely to be relevant to the level of 25(OH)D which is found to be sufficient or insufficient for any given individual to maintain a normal serum calcium level without secondary hyperparathyroidism. There is increasing evidence that vitamin D insufficiency, by leading to sustained hyperparathyroidism, is prejudicial to the skeleton, particularly cortical bone. Since it is without symptoms until fractures occur, it should be actively sought in those clinical situations now recognized as contributing to risk. It can only be identified by the periodic measurement of serum 25(OH)D and the calcitropic hormones PTH and 1,25(OH)2D. In addition, BMD should be measured in a predominantly cortical site such as the proximal forearm, as well as the more conventional sites of spine and hip. The implications of these recommendations are an increase in the use of assays for PTH and vitamin D metabolites in the groups of subjects discussed in this review. Patients with chronic malabsorption states might reasonably be expected to have measurements performed twice-yearly. When vitamin D insufficiency is found, treatment with either vitamin D, calcium or both will be necessary, depending on the etiology of the insufficiency state in the inividual. In some malabsorptive states, calcium malabsorption is the cause of hyperparathyroidism and oral calcium alone can be used to reverse excess PTH activity in those with an adequate state of vitamin D nutrition. However, even in those vitamin D replete individuals, vitamin D catabolism will be enhanced and a small additional oral dose of vitamin D can do no harm. Regular monitoring of PTH and vitamin D metabolites will remain a necessity to ensure continued efficacy of treatment. Current recommendations for dietary supplements of vitamin D are clearly inadequate [61]. There is compelling evidence for supplements of 800 IU per day in the elderly and other high risk populations. Such a dose is safe and without side effects. The available evidence suggests that this should be combined with calcium supplements of 1200 mg/day [19] and that the current UK recommendations for a daily calcium intake of 700 mg contrast with those from the USA at 1,200 mg for people over 50 years old. Physicians need to be aware of both the small but important problem of vitamin D depletion and osteomalacia with its sometimes ambiguous presentation, and the more common but covert vitamin D (and calcium) insufficiency with its widespread and varied clinical associations.
Bone density in axial and appendicular skeleton in patients with lactose intolerance: influence of calcium intake and vitamin D status.	Lactose intolerance (LI) is a common enzymatic insufficiency, manifesting by poor tolerance of dairy products, leading to low calcium intake and poor calcium absorption from dairy products. These changes might lead to an impairment of bone metabolism [1].
Absence of marked seasonal change in bone turnover: a longitudinal and multicenter cross-sectional study.	The effect of season on bone turnover is controversial. No information is available on seasonality of new serum markers of bone resorption. In this study, we have been unable to confirm findings of a marked wintertime increase in bone formation and resorption within the general population. Seasonality was assessed by cosinor analysis.
Circulating vitamin D metabolites, polymorphism in vitamin D receptor, and colorectal adenoma risk.	Vitamin D is a potential agent for the prevention of colorectal cancer possibly through mechanisms mediated by the vitamin D receptor (VDR). We investigated the association of circulating vitamin D metabolites and a genetic variant of the VDR gene with advanced colorectal adenoma, a precursor lesion of colorectal cancer.
Dental alveolar bone defects related to Vitamin D and calcium status.	Vitamin D is important for skeletal development, growth, and homeostasis but has been sparsely studied in the oro-facial bone. Dental alveolar bone anchors teeth to mandible and maxilla bones via a periodontal ligament. Its formation and maintenance are strictly dependent on the presence of tooth organs and it is characterized by a high turnover rate. In order to study the role of Vitamin D and the calcium status on dental alveolar bone formation, microradiographic and histologic comparison of wild-type, Vitamin D receptor null mutant (VDR (-/-) hypo- and normo-calcemic mice and tissues were performed at 2 months. In hypo-calcemic VDR (-/-) mice, alveolar bone was hypomineralized and demonstrated a cellular and matrix organization, similar to the immature woven bone. In normo-calcemic VDR (-/-) mice, mineralization of dental alveolar bone appeared normal, but bone was morphologically abnormal in some specific anatomical locations. These data show that Vitamin D and calcium status may control the formation of dental alveolar bone. The differences of phenotype between hypo- and normo-calcemic VDR null mutant mice suggested a specific Vitamin D control of alveolar bone formation by the Vitamin D nuclear receptor pathway.
Hyperparathyroidism secondary to hypovitaminosis D in hypoalbuminemic is less intense than in normoalbuminemic patients: a prevalence study in medical inpatients in southern Brazil.	Hypovitaminosis D has been reported in tropical countries, but this hormone has seldom been studied in Brazil. Our purpose was to study the prevalence of hypovitaminosis D in patients hospitalized in internal medicine wards in Southern Brazil. Possible associated factors were studied. We studied 81 adult patients in early spring. Mean serum 25(OH)D was 12 +/- 8.57 ng/mL; hypovitaminosis D was severe (< 10 ng/mL) in 27 (33.3%) patients, and moderate (> or = 10 ng/mL and < 20 ng/mL) in 36 (44.5%) patients. Clinical evaluation did not yield any data associated with hypovitaminosis D. Serum 25(OH)D levels of up to 20 ng/mL were associated with decreased mean serum total calcium (p = 0.001), ionized calcium (p = 0.01), and phosphorus (p = 0.044) levels, and increased mean serum PTH level (p = 0.001). In a multiple regression model, serum PTH level was independently affected by serum total calcium (p = 0.01), phosphorus (p = 0.009), and albumin (p = 0.009) levels. Hypovitaminosis D patients had lower mean serum albumin levels (p = 0.004), and serum 25(OH)D levels were directly correlated to serum albumin levels (p < 0.0001). Albumin influenced independently PTH response to hypovitaminosis D; normoalbuminemic hypovitaminosis D patients had higher mean serum PTH than hypoalbuminemic patients.
Effects of long-term cholestyramine administration on vitamin D and parathormone levels in middle-aged men with hypercholesterolemia.	The objective of this study was to evaluate possible adverse effects of long-term bile acid-binding resin (cholestyramine) treatment on vitamin D, parathyroid hormone, and calcium levels in middle-aged men. A double-blind randomized clinical trial was carried out over a period of 7 to 10 years at the University of Minnesota's Lipid Research Clinic as part of the Lipid Research Clinic's Coronary Primary Prevention Trial. Two hundred and sixty-eight men aged 42 to 68 years who had been previously randomized in the CPPT to cholestyramine or placebo and who had taken at least 75% of the prescribed study medication (6 packets or 24 gm/day) as determined by packet counts for the duration of the Coronary Primary Prevention Trial including the last 4 months of the trial were studied: one group (n = 124) received cholestyramine and the other group (n = 144) received a corresponding dose of placebo. Serum samples were obtained at the time of the final study visit in cholestyramine and placebo groups. (Results are reported as mean +/- SD in SI units). There were no differences in plasma levels of calcium (2.3 +/- 0.1 mmol/L vs 2.3 +/- 0.1 mmol/L), phosphorus (0.99 +/- 0.14 mmol/L vs 0.98 +/- 0.12 mmol/L), albumin (45 +/- 3 gm/L vs 46 +/- 0.6 gm/L), calcifediol (62.6 +/- 29.2 nmol/L vs 63.4 +/- 28.4), 25(OH)D2 (14 +/- 11 nmol/L vs 12 +/- 10 nmol/L) or calcitriol (99 +/- 190 pmol/L vs 91 +/- 56 pmol/L).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Subchronic toxicity of baltic herring oil and its fractions in the rat (III) bone tissue composition and dimension, and ratio of n-6/n-3 fatty acids in serum phospholipids.	Changes in total bone mineral density determined by the bone-ash method were recently demonstrated in rats, exposed to Herring oil from the contaminated southern part of the Baltic Sea. In the present study more detailed analysis of bone structure and biomechanics was performed and obtained results were evaluated in the context of dietary factors, such as polyunsaturated fatty acids, vitamin D and vitamin A. Baltic Sea herring oil was fractionated into one relatively pollutant-free fraction (F1), and two fractions with pronounced enrichment of pollutants (F2 and F3). Female Sprague-Dawley rats were fed diets supplemented with Baltic Herring oil, its fractions, Nordic Sea capelin oil or soy oil. Femur was scanned with peripheral quantitative computed tomography (pQCT) and also tested by a mechanical compression analysis. Polyunsaturated fatty acids, vitamin A and D were analysed in serum. Rats fed the high dose of herring oil exhibited shorter femur length with decreased diaphyseal cortical bone mineral density, as well as lowered metaphyseal cross-sectional area compared to the soy oil group. Rats fed the high dose of F1 diet had increased cortical and decreased trabecular area, and higher total and trabecular bone mineral density. Rats fed the low dose of F2 diet showed similar changes associated with increased maximum load and energy absorption in compression test of the femoral metaphysis. In summary, our findings in changes of bone geometry and density could not be linked to any isolated exposure parameter, suggesting synergistic or antagonistic effects of several components of the test diets.
Copper status and enzyme, hormone, vitamin and immune function in heifers.	A survey was conducted in 10 districts of Northern India to record the copper deficiency in soil, fodder and serum samples. Significant deficiency of copper was observed in soil, fodder and serum samples of heifers. The copper deficient animals were listless, showed depigmentation of skin, stiff gait and were anaemic and diahorric. The purpose of the study was to evaluate the magnitude of copper deficiency in Northern India and to examine the various haematobiochemicals, enzymes, vitamin and immune function which are affected by the deficiency of copper, so as to identify the parameters which can be of diagnostic importance in copper deficiency. Forty hypocuperemic heifers were selected from these areas and were randomly divided into two groups A and B. The heifers in group A were provided with mineral mixture containing copper sulphate and in group B without copper sulphate. Significant improvement (P<0.01) was observed in the haemoglobin (Hb), total leukocyte count (TLC) and total erythrocyte count (TEC) level at the 30th day of treatment in the animals of group A. Significant (P<0.01) improvement in serum. Ceruloplasmin (Cp) level was observed within 30 days of treatment, while significant (P<0.01) improvement in monoamine oxidase and liver cytochrome oxidase was observed at the 60th day of treatment in group A animals. Regarding hormones significant improvement was observed in T(3) and T(4), in the animals of group A within 60 days of treatment. The values of vitamin A and E showed significant (P<0.01) improvement within 30th days of treatment. The phagocytic activity of neutrophils against Candida albicans significantly (P<0.01) improved in group A within 60 days of treatment. Similarly significant improvement in superoxide dismutase activity in RBC was observed at the 30th day, and WBC and whole blood at 60th day in group A animals. Significant improvement in liver Cu level was observed at the 30th day of treatment, while in group B the liver Cu was significantly (P<0.01) depleted at the 60th day of experimentation. Additional Cu supplementation improved growth performance significantly in group A.
Abnormalities in the bone mineral metabolism in HIV-infected patients.	To evaluate bone mineral metabolism in HIV infected and asymptomatic patients receiving highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) containing protease inhibitors (PI) and naïve patients.
Glucocorticoid-Induced Osteoporosis Program (GIOP): a novel, comprehensive, and highly successful care program with improved outcomes at 1 year.	Patients who take chronic glucocorticoids (GC) are at increased risk of osteoporosis and fracture. Only a minority of patients who take chronic GC receive optimal osteoporosis prevention, diagnosis, and/or treatment.
Vitamin D-binding protein (DBP) gene polymorphism is associated with Graves' disease and the vitamin D status in a Polish population study.	Vitamin D-binding protein (DBP) genetic variants have an influence on vitamin D status and, therefore, they may contribute to the development of autoimmune diseases. In this case-control study, we investigated the association of DBP gene polymorphisms with susceptibility to Graves' disease (GD) in a Polish population. Furthermore, we analyzed the distribution of DBP genotypes in GD patients divided according to the clinical (gender, age of onset, ophthalmopathy, family history, smoking habits) and genetic parameters (CTLA4 49G and HLA-DRB1*03 alleles), as well as the vitamin D serum levels.
Variable deficits of bone mineral despite chronic glucocorticoid therapy in pediatric patients with inflammatory diseases: a Glaser Pediatric Research Network study.	To evaluate the relationship between chronic glucocorticoid (GC) exposure and bone mineral density (BMD) in children with rheumatic diseases and inflammatory bowel disease.
Prevalence of abnormal serum vitamin D, PTH, calcium, and phosphorus in patients with chronic kidney disease: results of the study to evaluate early kidney disease.	Abnormalities of mineral metabolism occur early in chronic kidney disease. Quantification of the prevalence of these abnormalities has not been described using current assays nor in large unselected populations. This outpatient cohort cross-sectional study was conducted in 153 centers, (71% primary care practices). Blood for parathyroid hormone (PTH), vitamin D metabolites, creatinine, calcium (Ca), and phosphorus (P) were drawn between June and October 2004. Low 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25 OH2 D3) was defined as <22 pg/ml. The 1814 patients had a mean age of 71.1 years old; 48% had diabetes mellitus (DM). Low 1,25 OH2 D3 was evident at all estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) levels: 13% in those with eGFR >80 ml/min, >60% in those with eGFR <30 ml/min. High PTH (>65pm/dl) occurred in 12% with eGFR >80 ml/min. Serum Ca and P were normal until eGFR was <40 ml/min. Significant differences in the mean and median values of 1,25 OH2 D3, PTH, but not 25(OH)D3 levels, were seen across deciles of eGFR (P<0.001). Multivariate analysis revealed that DM, increased urinary albumin/creatinine ratio and lower eGFR predicted lower values of 1,25 OH2 D3. A high prevalence of mineral metabolite abnormalities occurs in a large unreferred US cohort. Low 1,25 OH2 D3 and elevated PTH are common at higher eGFR than previously described. As bone, cardiovascular disease, and mineral metabolite are correlated; further studies are necessary to determine the importance of these findings relative to outcomes.
Natural history of bone metabolism and bone mineral density in children with inflammatory bowel disease.	In children with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) it is not known whether reductions in bone mineral density (BMD) are a consequence of bone turnover alterations and if BMD improves with treatment.
A 6-month longitudinal study of bone mineral density with antiepileptic drug monotherapy.	Antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) can affect bone metabolism, but the exact mechanisms or differences in individual drugs are still unknown. The purpose of this study was to prospectively investigate the alterations in bone mineral density (BMD) and markers of bone metabolism induced by different AEDs in Koreans with epilepsy. Subjects included 33 drug-naïve, newly diagnosed patients with epilepsy aged between 18 and 50. BMD at right calcaneus and various markers for bone metabolism were measured before and after 6months of AED monotherapy including carbamazepine, valproic acid, and lamotrigine. Carbamazepine caused a significant decrease in BMD, which was accompanied by a decrease in the level of vitamin D (25-OHD(3)). BMD and vitamin D were not affected by 6months of valproic acid or lamotrigine therapy. Interestingly, valproic acid and lamotrigine, but not carbamazepine, significantly increased osteocalcin, a marker of bone formation. All AEDs almost doubled the parathyroid hormone level, whereas urinary Pyrilinks, a marker of bone resorption, was not affected by those AEDs. These findings suggest that carbamazepine, a hepatic enzyme-inducing drug, decreases BMD.
Low bone mineral density in young children with cystic fibrosis.	Low bone mineral density (BMD) is a frequent problem for adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Only limited information is available for young patients.
Vertebral fractures, osteoporosis and vitamin D levels in Chilean postmenopausal women]	Approximately one-third of vertebral fractures can be clinically diagnosed.
Frequency of combined deficiencies of vitamin D and holotranscobalamin in cancer patients.	Vitamin D and holotranscobalamin (HTCII) deficiencies have been seen to demonstrate an association with various types of cancers. The objective of this study is to determine the frequency of vitamin D and HTCII deficiency in cancer patients. Our study investigated vitamin D, total B12, and HTCII levels in 70 cancer patients. Vitamin D status was measured as serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D, Nichols Advantage assay], and serum B12 was measured as both total B12 and as the metabolically active HTCII (Immulite B12 assay followed by glass adsorption). Insufficiency of serum 25(OH)D levels for this study is defined based on differing literature standards of insufficiency and was selected to be either <50 or <75 nmol/l. When 25(OH)D insufficiency is defined as serum level of <75 nmol/l, 43 of 60 (72%) of cancer patients were found to be insufficient. At the lower definition of insufficiency, <50 nmol/l, 24 of 60 patients (40%) were insufficient. Of 52 patients, only 3 (6%) were found to have insufficient serum levels of total B12 (normal = >300 pg/ml), whereas 17 of 52 (34%) were found to be HTCII insufficient (normal = >69 pg/ml). Of these 17 patients, 14 (84.4%) had normal total B12 levels. Low serum levels of 25(OH)D strongly correlated with low serum HTCII. All 12 HTCII-deficient patients were vitamin D insufficient at the <75-nmol/l standard. Six of 12 HTCII-deficient patients (50%) were vitamin D deficient at the <50-nmol/l cutoff. The standard measurement of total serum B12 alone is inadequate for identifying patients with insufficient levels of metabolically active B12. Deficiency of vitamin D (72%) and HTCII (34%) is prevalent among newly diagnosed patients with cancer and could play a role in cancer development and host response to tumor and therapy. Possible explanations for combined HTCII and 25(OH)D deficiencies include patient age, presence of atrophic gastritis, and lack of sun exposure.
Vitamin D and bone health in adults with cystic fibrosis.	Cystic fibrosis (CF) patients have chronic pancreatic insufficiency leading to malabsorption of fat-soluble vitamins, including vitamin D which can contribute to poor skeletal health and respiratory function.
Vitamin D metabolites and calcium absorption in severe vitamin D deficiency.	Contrary to frequent claims, vitamin D insufficiency does not generally cause malabsorption of calcium because serum 1,25(OH)(2)D, which is the major determinant of calcium absorption, is maintained by secondary hyperparathyroidism. Nevertheless, because malabsorption of calcium has been described in osteomalacia, there must be a 25(OH)D level below which the serum 1,25(OH)(2)D can no longer be sustained, although it has never been defined. This paper seeks to define it. We examined the records of 3661 patients and found 319 with a serum 25(OH)D < or = 40 nM, in whom calcium absorption, serum calcium, PTH, bone markers, and vitamin D metabolites had been measured. They were grouped according to their serum 25(OH)D into four categories, 0-10, 11-20, 21-30, and 31-40 nM, and differences between the groups were tested by ANOVA. Correlations between the variables were also examined. Serum calcium, 1,25(OH)(2)D, and calcium absorption were significantly decreased and serum PTH and alkaline phosphatase (ALP) and urine hydroxyproline were increased in those with 25(OH)D < or = 10 nM. Serum ALP and urine hydroxyproline were more strongly related, inversely, to calcium absorption than to the vitamin D metabolites. We conclude that vitamin D deficiency does not reduce serum 1,25(OH)(2)D, and therefore calcium absorption, until the serum 25(OH)D falls to approximately 10 nM. At this level, the substrate concentration seems to be insufficient to maintain the level of the dihydroxy metabolite despite secondary hyperparathyroidism. Further studies are needed to see how these changes correlate with the histological changes of osteomalacia.
Vitamin D status and calcium metabolism in adolescent black and white girls on a range of controlled calcium intakes.	There are limited data in adolescents on racial differences in relationships between dietary calcium intake, absorption, and retention and serum levels of calcium-regulating hormones.
Vitamin D supplementation has no major effect on pain or pain behavior in bedridden geriatric patients with advanced dementia.	In a few, earlier, uncontrolled trials, alleviation of chronic pain has been documented by vitamin D supplementation. This randomized double-blind placebo controlled trial addressed the association between pain and vitamin D deficiency and the effects of vitamin D supplementation on pain in institutionalized aged patients.
Skeletal consequences of familial hypocalciuric hypercalcaemia vs. primary hyperparathyroidism.	Bone metabolism is only superficially described in familiar hypocalciuric hypercalcaemia (FHH). We describe and compare biochemical and osteodensitometric variables in FHH and primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) and assess whether they can improve the diagnostic discrimination between the groups.
Vitamin D deficiency and insufficiency among patients with prostate cancer.	To assess the frequency of vitamin D deficiency among men with prostate cancer, as considerable epidemiological, in vitro, in vivo and clinical data support an association between vitamin D deficiency and prostate cancer outcome.
Osteocalcin and bone alkaline phosphatase in the serum of women with liver disease.	To identify the types of liver disease in which osteopenia is a prominent feature and to understand the mechanisms of bone loss, bone mineral density was measured in the lumbar spine and hip, bone alkaline phosphatase, osteocalcin, and biochemical markers of calcium homeostasis were measured in 42 women, aged 33 to 52, with chronic liver disease and in 299 healthy women of similar age. In control women, bone alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin correlated negatively with bone density at all sites (p less than 0.05). In women with liver disease, osteocalcin correlated negatively with bone density in the lumbar spine (p less than 0.007), whereas bone alkaline phosphatase did not correlate with bone density at any site. Bone alkaline phosphatase correlated positively with osteocalcin in control women (p = 0.001) and negatively with osteocalcin in women with liver disease (p = 0.03). Serum bone alkaline phosphatase in women with liver disease was increased significantly over serum bone alkaline phosphatase of control women, probably because of decreased clearance owing to defective function or decreased numbers of hepatic asialoglycoprotein receptors. Bone density was lower in the lumbar spines and hips of women with primary sclerosing cholangitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, and chronic active hepatitis or fibrosis without cirrhosis than in the lumbar spine and hips of control women. However, the differences were not significant, possibly because of the small sample size. It is concluded that, in liver disease, osteocalcin is a more reliable marker of osteoblastic function than bone alkaline phosphatase. Although our results show that bone density may decrease in women with cholestatic liver disease, larger studies are needed to determine the degree of osteopenia.
The effect of a very high daily plant stanol ester intake on serum lipids, carotenoids, and fat-soluble vitamins.	Intake of 2-3 g/d of plant stanols as esters lowers LDL cholesterol level, but there is no information about the efficacy and safety of a respective very high daily intake. We studied the effects of 8.8 g/d of plant stanols as esters on serum lipids and safety variables in subjects with mild to moderate hypercholesterolemia.
The effect of a fortified milk drink on vitamin D status and bone turnover in post-menopausal women from South East Asia.	Calcium and vitamin D are essential for bone growth; milk is an appropriate vehicle to be fortified with calcium, vitamin D and other minerals. The purpose of the current study was to compare the effect of supplementing with a high calcium milk drink with added vitamin D, magnesium and zinc (HCM) versus a placebo drink on serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) and vitamin D status as well as markers of bone formation/resorption in postmenopausal women living in South East Asia (Jakarta, Indonesia and Manila, the Philippines) over a period of 4 months. Calcium intake at baseline was 237 mg (median; 176-316, interquartile range) for Indonesia and 353 mg (median; 222-480, interquartile range) for the Filipino women per day. Fortified milk supplementation reduced the percentage of women that were insufficient in 25 (OH) vitamin D(3) (<50 nmol/L) from 70% to 22% in the Indonesian women and 20% to 0% in the Filipino women. Fortified milk supplementation significantly reduced parathyroid hormone levels (PTH) by week 2 (22% and 11%), C-telopeptide of type I collagen (CTX) by week 2 (34% and 27%), osteocalcin (OC) by week 8 (18% and 25%) and procollagen type I N-propeptide (PINP) by week 8 (15% and 21%), in women from Indonesia and the Philippines, respectively. Thus, the HCM intervention was able to significantly improve vitamin D status, lower PTH levels and reduce bone turnover in two groups of South East Asian women.
Sunlight exposure and development of rickets in Indian toddlers.	To study the role of sunlight exposure in determining the vitamin D status of underprivileged toddlers.
25-OH-vitamin D assay variation and subject management in clinical practice.	To compare two methods for assessing vitamin D status in clinical settings.
Vitamin D status and its associations with disease activity and severity in African Americans with recent-onset rheumatoid arthritis.	To examine the prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency and the associations of vitamin D concentration with disease status in African Americans with rheumatoid arthritis (RA).
A randomized trial of cholecalciferol versus doxercalciferol for lowering parathyroid hormone in chronic kidney disease.	The optimal treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic kidney disease (CKD) is unknown.
The impact of vitamin D on dendritic cell function in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.	Excessive activity of dendritic cells (DCs) is postulated as a central disease mechanism in Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE). Vitamin D is known to reduce responsiveness of healthy donor DCs to the stimulatory effects of Type I IFN. As vitamin D deficiency is reportedly common in SLE, we hypothesized that vitamin D might play a regulatory role in the IFNalpha amplification loop in SLE. Our goals were to investigate the relationship between vitamin D levels and disease activity in SLE patients and to investigate the effects of vitamin D on DC activation and expression of IFNalpha-regulated genes in vitro.
Relationship between fatty degeneration of thigh muscles and vitamin D status in the elderly: a preliminary MRI study.	The purpose of this study was to study the relationship between fatty degeneration of thigh muscles and vitamin D status in elderly adults.
The "Got D'ViBE?" study: an inter-institutional project assessing vitamin D and mammographic breast density.	A multi-institutional collaboration was forged to implement a study of the relationship between Vitamin D and breast density among medically underserved women. This effort resulted in techniques to measure vitamin D levels, breast density, and sunlight exposure. Outcomes from this collaboration may provide insight to researchers conducting similar investigations.
Is there a role for therapeutic drug monitoring of vitamin D level as a surrogate marker for fracture risk?	Clinical studies have suggested a possible association of low serum vitamin D levels in patients with bone fractures. This, coupled with a high prevalence of fractures and increases in associated disability and mortality, begs the question, is there evidence to support a role for therapeutic drug monitoring of vitamin D levels to prevent bone fractures? We use a previously published nine-step decision-making algorithm to answer this question. Optimal dosages of vitamin D have not been determined, although daily intake guidelines are suggested. Current vitamin D assays yield varying results, making it challenging for clinicians to interpret results from clinical trials and apply them directly to patients and their specific serum level data. Fracture risk is not easily assessable clinically, with no clear relationship between vitamin D concentrations and bone mineral density. The existing primary literature shows no clear relationship between vitamin D concentrations and fracture risk; target concentrations are not well established. Although the pharmacokinetic parameters of vitamin D are unpredictable and vitamin D supplementation is frequently lifelong, results of a vitamin D assay are unlikely to make a significant difference in the clinical decision-making process (i.e., provide more information than clinical judgment alone). Most published studies on vitamin D levels and fracture risk did not control for other potential reasons to monitor levels, multifactorial risks for fractures, and other confounders. Given limited data to support a direct relation between vitamin D levels and clinical outcome of fracture, inconsistent between-assay results, and no consensus on optimal levels, there is insufficient evidence to recommend routine therapeutic drug monitoring of vitamin D for fracture prevention; however, other reasons for monitoring might exist that are beyond the scope of this review. Recent availability of vitamin D assay standards may lead to future improvements in comparability of research data, establishment of a target range, and interpretability of patient results.
Serum concentrations of vitamin D and parathyroid hormone and prevalent metabolic syndrome among adults in the United States.	Some reports suggest that concentrations of vitamin D are inversely, whereas concentrations of parathyroid hormone (PTH) are directly, associated with prevalent metabolic syndrome. Because of lingering uncertainty about these associations, we examined the cross-sectional associations between serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D(3) and PTH with metabolic syndrome in a representative sample of adults in the US.
Optimal vitamin A and suboptimal vitamin D status are common in Iranian infants.	Investigation of serum concentrations of vitamins A and D in Iranian infants.
Vitamin D deficiency and osteoporosis in a rural population of Cordoba province, Argentina]	Vitamin D deficiency is defined when blood levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25 (OH) D) is less than ng / mmol/L. The status of Vitamin D level is associated with clinical, pathological and physiological changes as increased of parathyroid hormone, bone remodeling, osteoporosis and increased risk of fractures. Moreover,vitamin D and its metabolites are known to be associated with multiple chronic diseases as diabetes mellitus, autoimmune, cardiovascular and neoplasia diseases.
Vitamin D insufficiency among postmenopausal women in urban and rural areas in Guilan, Northern Iran.	This study aimed to describe vitamin D status in postmenopausal women in urban and rural areas in Guilan, northern Iran. Between October 2004 and February 2005 a group of 750 women older than 50 years was randomly selected from urban and rural areas in Guilan. The participants were interviewed to collect data on age, educational level, body weight, height, employment status, reproductive history, medications, history of illness, and supplement use. Serum 25(OH) D was measured in 646 women (427 in urban areas and 219 women in rural areas). Serum 25(OH) D levels in urban and rural postmenopausal women were 18.5 ± 13.5 ng/ml and 22.9 ± 13.8 ng/ml (P < 0.0001), respectively. In urban and rural areas, 84.7% and 79.5% of the women had serum 25(OH) D levels less than 30 ng/ml, respectively. In this study, serum vitamin D levels and prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency was related to educational level in urban women. The urban women in the lowest educational level (<5 years schooling) had a better vitamin D status than other educational groups. This study showed that a high proportion of postmenopausal women living in Guilan province had vitamin D insufficiency. Vitamin D inadequacy was more common in urban areas and especially in the upper social class. Supplement use and national strategies to prevent vitamin D insufficiency are strongly needed in this community.
Vitamin D, innate immunity and outcomes in community acquired pneumonia.	Vitamin D regulates the production of the antimicrobial peptides cathelicidin and beta-defensin-2, which play an important role in the innate immune response to infection. We hypothesized that vitamin D deficiency would be associated with lower levels of these peptides and worse outcomes in patients admitted to hospital with community acquired pneumonia.
Vitamin D status in Jordan: dress style and gender discrepancies.	Vitamin D deficiency is highly prevalent worldwide and has been linked to many diseases. The aims of the present study were to assess the vitamin D status of Jordanians at the national level and to identify groups of the population at high risk for vitamin D deficiency.
Serum vitamin D levels in office workers in a subtropical climate.	Vitamin D is necessary to maintain healthy bones, and may prevent other chronic diseases. There is limited information regarding the vitamin D status of people living in climates with relatively high ambient ultraviolet radiation. We therefore aimed to determine serum 25(OH)D levels in a group of office-workers in subtropical Australia. We collected blood from 129 office workers in summer (n = 129) and 175 in winter (91 in both seasons). Serum 25(OH)D was estimated using a commercial chemiluminescent immunoassay and we asked participants to complete questionnaires about sun exposure and diet for the month prior to blood collection. Summer and winter mean serum 25(OH)D was 74 (95% CI 70-77) nmol L(-1) and 54 (95% CI 51-57) nmol L(-1), respectively. In summer, 14% of participants were classed as "insufficient," compared with 51% in winter. High 25(OH)D levels in summer were associated with time spent outdoors in nonpeak UV periods, while in winter high levels were associated with intake of vitamin D from food or supplements. The high prevalence of vitamin D insufficiency observed in this population highlights the need for further examination of the relation between sunlight and vitamin D production to enable more accurate sun exposure recommendations.
Fok-I gene polymorphism of vitamin D receptor in patients with beta-thalassemia major and its effect on vitamin D status.	Most of the biological actions of vitamin D are mediated by an intracellular receptor (VDR) in which several single nucleotide gene polymorphisms have been identified. Vitamin D deficiency is increasingly identified among thalassemic patients and recent evidence links it with myocardial iron accumulation. The aim of this work was to assess the distribution of the Fok-I polymorphism of the VDR gene among Greek children and young adults with beta-thalassemia major and to investigate its association with 25(OH)D(3) and 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) serum levels. Sixty-nine thalassemic patients (35 females and 34 males), with a mean age of 23·05±6·07 years, participated in the study. Genotype frequencies of Fok-I were similar to those previously reported for other populations; 44·9% of the patients were homozygotes for F allele, 43·5% were heterozygotes and 11·6% were homozygotes for the f allele. Low levels of serum 25(OH)D(3) were recorded, as 41 patients (59·4%) were below the cut-off limit of 50 nmol/l that determines deficiency, whereas, levels of 1,25(OH)(2)D(3) showed wide variability ranging from deficiency (≤50 pmol/l) in 34 patients (49·3%) to excess (≥125 pmol/l) in 13 patients (18·8%). When stratifying patients according to serum 1,25(OH)(2) D(3) concentrations, a higher prevalence of the f allele was observed in the deficiency group (P = 0·03). A comparison of the serum concentrations of the two vitamin D metabolites produced a trend towards a negative correlation (r = -0·204, P = 0·09). Further studies are required to assess the genetic contribution to the regulation of vitamin D metabolites in the serum of patients with beta-thalassemia major.
Appendicular lean mass does not mediate the significant association between vitamin D status and functional outcome in hip-fracture women.	To investigate whether muscle mass mediates the significant association between vitamin D status and functional recovery after hip fracture in women.
Vitamin D deficiency in Turkish mothers and their neonates and in women of reproductive age.	Materno-fetal vitamin D deficiency (VDD) may occur in the early neonatal period. We aimed to evaluate the vitamin D (vitD) status and risk factors for VDD in healthy newborns and their mothers, and also in fertile women.
Low-dose cinacalcet reduces serum calcium in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism not eligible for surgery]	We present our experience with low-dose cinacalcet to normalize serum calcium in patients with primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) not eligible for surgery. We analyzed the impact of this drug on various parameters of calcium-phosphorus metabolism and its tolerability profile. We recruited 17 patients diagnosed with PHPT who had hypercalcemia and also met one or more of the following inclusion criteria: elevated risk for parathyroidectomy, persistent/recurrent PHPT after previous parathyroid surgery or refusal to undergo surgery. The starting dose of cinacalcet was 30 or 60 mg/day, which was adjusted depending on the degree of calcemia reduction and tolerance to the drug. We observed a reduction in serum calcium that was already evident in the first post-treatment test. Appropriate dose adjustment was performed when required and normal serum calcium levels were achieved in most patients, remaining stable during follow-up. Parathyroid hormone was reduced but not normalized in most patients. Calciuria decreased while serum phosphate and alkaline phosphatase levels increased. Cinacalcet tolerance was generally good at the doses used. The most common adverse effects were weakness, dizziness and asthenia, leading to treatment withdrawal in only one patient. We conclude that low-dose cinacalcet reduces serum calcium efficiently, normalizes calcium levels in most patients with PHPT not eligible for surgical treatment and has a good tolerability profile.
Vitamin D absorption: consequences of gastric bypass surgery.	Severe vitamin D deficiency is a common finding in morbid obesity, and the incidence increases markedly after RYGB. Normalization of vitamin D levels after RYGB is difficult to achieve because the degree of surgery-induced malabsorption is not known.
Seasonal variation in blood drug concentrations and a potential relationship to vitamin D.	The most important enzyme in hepatic drug metabolism is cytochrome P450 3A4. Published in vitro data indicate that vitamin D may up-regulate the expression of the CYP3A4 gene. Individual vitamin D levels are highly dependent on sunlight exposure and show great seasonal variability in northern countries. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether plasma concentrations of CYP3A4 drug substrates exhibit seasonal changes compatible with a stimulatory effect of vitamin D on drug metabolism. Three immunosuppressants (tacrolimus, sirolimus, and cyclosporine) were analyzed, because these CYP3A4 drug substrates are subject to long-term use and repeated concentration determinations. In addition, mycophenolic acid was included in the analysis as a control drug independent of CYP3A4 metabolism. Concentration-to-dose ratios were extracted from the Karolinska Therapeutic Drug Monitoring database and compared between the 3-month periods of lowest and highest vitamin D levels. Sirolimus and tacrolimus levels showed seasonal variability that was highly consistent with changes in vitamin D; for example, significantly lower drug concentrations in July to September than in January to March. As expected, no significant difference was evident for mycophenolic acid, but this result was also the case with cyclosporine, possibly due to cross-reactivity of CYP3A4-mediated metabolites with the immunoassay used for quantification. In conclusion, there is cyclic variation in blood levels of important immunosuppressants throughout the year that correlates with UV light-dependent changes in vitamin D levels. Even though a causal relationship remains to be established, it is suggested that individual differences in vitamin D may contribute to variability in drug metabolism and disposition.
Bone biopsy findings and correlation with clinical, radiological, and biochemical parameters in children with fractures.	In children the diagnosis of osteoporosis is based on fracture history and DXA-derived BMD. Bone biopsy is an invasive but accurate method for studying bone characteristics. In this study we evaluated bone biopsy findings and their correlation with noninvasive measures of bone health. Transiliac bone biopsy was performed on 24 consecutive children (17 boys, median age 12 years, range 6 to 16 years) evaluated for suspected primary osteoporosis. Biopsy findings were compared with normative data and correlated with clinical, radiological, biochemical, and densitometric findings. The patients had sustained altogether 64 nonvertebral fractures (median 2.5) from low- or moderate-energy traumas, and 14 patients (58%) had vertebral fractures. The median lumbar spine BMD Z-score was -1.2 (range -3.1 to +1.0). Hypovitaminosis D was present in 58%. Histomorphometry showed low bone volume in 7 patients and normal bone volume in 17. Bone turnover was high in 7, low in 7, and normal in 10 patients. Histomorphometric findings correlated poorly with fracture history, serum bone turnover markers, and DXA findings. Vitamin D deficiency and low lumbar BMD were associated with high bone turnover in the biopsy. These findings underscore the difficulties in diagnosing pediatric osteoporosis. Bone histomorphometry gives additional information and may be useful when considering bisphosphonate treatment in children with suspected primary osteoporosis.
Vitamin D-associated polymorphisms are related to insulin resistance and vitamin D deficiency in polycystic ovary syndrome.	Women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) frequently suffer from metabolic disturbances including insulin resistance (IR), which might be related to vitamin D metabolism. We aimed to investigate the association of polymorphisms in the vitamin D receptor (VDR) gene as well as vitamin D level-associated genes with metabolic and endocrine parameters in PCOS women. Moreover, we examined whether there are associations with PCOS susceptibility.
Heterogeneity of biological bone markers in idiopathic male osteoporosis.	In men with idiopathic osteoporosis, histomorphometric studies reported both increased resorption and decreased remodeling. We aimed at examine bone remodeling in these patients by biological marker measurement. We compared pre-treatment carboxy-terminal cross-linking telopeptide of type I collagen (CTX) and bone alkaline phosphatase (bALP) levels in 49 men, mean age 59 ± 14 year, with idiopathic osteoporosis with fractures (40 patients) or osteoporosis diagnosed by densitometry (9 patients) with 50 age-matched controls. The influence of baseline remodeling level on alendronate efficacy was studied. Bone remodeling markers (CTX and bALP) did not significantly differ between patients and controls and were correlated in both groups. There was no correlation between these markers, vitamin D and PTH levels. Twenty-one patients underwent repeat densitometry after 1 year of alendronate (70 mg/week). Mean annual BMD increase, spine +4.1 ± 3.9%, and hip +1.5 ± 1.2% showed no correlation with baseline CTX. Bone remodeling is very heterogeneous and formation and resorption remain biologically coupled in both idiopathic male osteoporosis and controls. Baseline remodeling level does not affect the action of alendronate on BMD.
The vitamin D debate: translating controlled experiments into reality for human sun exposure times.	Exposure to sunlight, specifically the ultraviolet radiation, has both positive and negative health effects. Maximizing the benefits (vitamin D synthesis) while minimizing the damage is a multifaceted problem in which many of the elements are poorly quantified. Here we show how rigorously conducted large sample size laboratory studies of the effect of ultraviolet radiation dose on vitamin D status can be applied to real-life situations. This was achieved by modeling the radiation incident on different surfaces for different solar locations, and equating with the controlled exposures in the laboratory studies. Results from both model and experimental data show that relatively short exposures of a modest amount of unprotected skin to summer sunlight in northern climes, on a regular basis during lunchtime hours, increases vitamin D to sufficiency status (≥20 ng mL(-1) ) in the white Caucasian population. While both sun exposure conditions and human skin responses are variable in real life, these quantitative findings provide a guide for authorities devising sunlight exposure recommendations.
Vitamin D levels, microvascular complications, and mortality in type 1 diabetes.	To evaluate vitamin D as a predictor of all-cause mortality, progression from normoalbuminuria to micro- or macroalbuminuria, and the development of background or proliferative retinopathy in patients with type 1 diabetes.
Ethnic differences in aortic pulse wave velocity occur in the descending aorta and may be related to vitamin D.	We studied aortic pulse wave velocity (aPWV), a predictor of cardiovascular events independent of blood pressure, in a multiethnic sample of British men, to investigate the roles for blood levels of vitamin D and aldosterone in total and regional aortic stiffness. Total aPWV was estimated noninvasively by the Arteriograph device (aPWV(AG)) in 198 men, with its length measure calibrated by magnetic resonance. PWVs over the aortic arch and descending aorta were measured by magnetic resonance in a subsample (n=47). Mean (SE) aPWV(AG) in South Asians (n=68; age 55±10 years), at known higher coronary disease risk than other groups, was 0.5 m/s (0.2 m/s) higher than in African Caribbeans (n=67; 55±10 years), at lowest coronary disease risk here, and Europeans (n=63; 57±8 years), adjusted for age, systolic blood pressure, and diabetes mellitus (P=0.01). By magnetic resonance, PWV over the descending aorta in South Asians was 0.7 m/s (0.3 m/s) and 0.8 m/s (0.3 m/s) higher than in African Caribbeans and Europeans, respectively; PWV over the aortic arch was not different. South Asians and African Caribbeans had 21 nmol/L (3 nmol/L) and 14 nmol/L (3 nmol/L) lower mean (SE) 25(OH)D than Europeans (P<0.001). Unlike aldosterone, 25(OH)D was negatively correlated with aPWV(AG) adjusted for age and systolic blood pressure, as well as weakened or removed ethnic differences in aPWV(AG) in regression models. These data suggest that aortic stiffness as aPWV parallels coronary disease risk in ethnic groups, descending aortic but not arch PWV has this feature, and serum 25(OH)D is an independent negative correlate of aPWV and may partly account for ethnicity-related differences in aPWV and coronary disease risk.
Low serum vitamin D is associated with high risk of diabetes in Korean adults.	Vitamin D may play a role in glucose metabolism. A low vitamin D level has been associated with increased risk of diabetes mellitus, but the association has not been confirmed in Asians. Our objective was to examine the association of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels with insulin resistance and diabetes mellitus in Korean adults based on a large population-based survey. Cross-sectional analyses were carried out on 5787 Korean adults (2453 men and 3334 women) who were 20 y or older and participated in the Fourth Korea NHANES conducted in 2008. Diabetes mellitus was defined as fasting plasma glucose ≥7 mmol/L or current use of oral hypoglycemic agents or insulin. Insulin resistance was estimated by homeostatic model assessment for insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and quantitative insulin sensitivity check index (QUICKI). Compared to individuals with a sufficient serum 25(OH)D concentration ≥75 nmol/L, the OR (95% CI) for diabetes mellitus were 1.73 (1.09-2.74), 1.30 (0.91-1.84), and 1.40 (0.99-1.98) for serum 25(OH)D concentrations <25, 25 to <50, and 50 to <75 nmol/L, respectively, after multiple adjustments (P-trend < 0.0001). Furthermore, the serum 25(OH)D level was inversely associated with HOMA-IR (β = -0.061; P = 0.001) and positively associated with QUICKI (β = 0.059; P = 0.001) in overweight or obese participants. In conclusion, a low serum vitamin D concentration is associated with a high risk of diabetes mellitus in Korean adults and the concentration is inversely associated with insulin resistance in those who are overweight or obese.
Evidence-based cardiology: practical applications from epidemiology. II. The use of biomarkers]	The use of biomarkers that show an association with the development of cardiovascular disease needs a careful evaluation in regard to the quality of evidence that establishes their relationship. Although observational studies have been paramount to establish the importance of the traditional risk factors, we can only screen and intervene on biomarkers when there is demonstrated benefit in well-designed randomized clinical trials.
Longitudinal study of vitamin D status in the 1st 6 months of life.	Although hypovitaminosis D has been reported in the neonatal period and infancy, there is currently little information on the longitudinal changes in vitamin D status throughout early infancy.
The 2011 IOM report on vitamin D and calcium requirements for north america: clinical implications for providers treating patients with low bone mineral density.	Vitamin D is an essential nutrient for skeletal mineralization and maintenance of bone mass. Most healthy individuals can meet their vitamin D requirements through dietary means, modest supplementation and solar exposure for short periods of time. The serum level of 25OHD that determines adequacy is 20 ng/ml, which corresponds with consumption of 6-800 IU of vitamin D per day, according to the Institute of Medicine review. There is still debate about whether higher doses of vitamin D are required for treating patients with osteoporosis.
Impact of tooth replacement strategies on the nutritional status of partially-dentate elders.	To investigate the impact of tooth replacement on the nutritional status of partially dentate older patients, and, to compare two different tooth replacement strategies; conventional treatment using removable partial dentures and functionally orientated treatment based on the shortened dental arch.
Restriction of vitamin A and D in beef cattle finishing diets on feedlot performance and adipose accretion.	Feedlot producers often exceed NRC recommendations for vitamin A and D supplementation; however, increased concentrations of these vitamins have been shown to limit adipocyte differentiation in vitro. A feedlot trial was conducted using 168 Angus crossbred steers (BW = 284 ± 0.4 kg) allotted to 24 pens. The experiment had a 2 × 2 factorial arrangement of treatments: no supplemental vitamin A or D (NAND), 3,750 IU vitamin A/kg dietary DM with no supplemental vitamin D (SAND), no supplemental vitamin A and 1,860 IU vitamin D/kg dietary DM (NASD), and 3,750 IU and 1,860 IU vitamin A and D/ kg dietary DM (SASD), respectively. Serum, liver, and intramuscular and subcutaneous adipose tissue retinol concentrations were decreased in (P < 0.001) in cattle fed the no supplemental vitamin A diets (NAND and NASD combined) compared with those consuming supplemental vitamin A (SAND and SASD combined) diets. In addition, intramuscular retinol concentration was 38% less than in the subcutaneous depot. Serum 25(OH)D(3) concentrations were reduced (P < 0.001) during the first 70 d when cattle were fed no supplemental vitamin D diets (NAND and SAND combined); however, liver 25(OH)D(3) concentrations remained unchanged (P > 0.10) through d 184. Serum and liver 25(OH)D(3) concentrations increased (P < 0.001) with vitamin D supplementation (NASD and SASD combined). The DMI, ADG, G:F, and morbidity were not affected (P > 0.10) by dietary concentration of vitamin A or D. There were vitamin A and D interactions (P < 0.03) for backfat thickness and USDA Yield grade. Cattle fed the NAND diet had greater (P < 0.03) Yield grades than other treatments because of greater (P < 0.005) 12th rib backfat thickness in NAND steers than the NASD and SAND steers. Vitamin D concentrations were attenuated and minimal carcass adiposity responses to vitamin D supplementation were observed. Feeding a diet without supplemental vitamin A increased (P < 0.05) Quality grades and marbling scores and tended (P = 0.06) to increase ether extractable lipid of the LM. As retinol and 25(OH)D(3) concentrations in feedlot cattle declined as a result of a lack of dietary supplementation, adipose accretion increased, resulting in elevated Quality and Yield grades. Withdrawal of supplemental vitamin A, D, or both from the finishing diet of feedlot beef cattle had minimal impact carcass composition.
Relative and combined effects of ethanol and protein deficiency on bone manganese and copper.	Both manganese and copper may affect bone synthesis. Bone content of both metals can be altered in alcoholics, although controversy exists regarding this matter. To analyse the relative and combined effects of ethanol and a low protein diet on bone copper and manganese, and their relationships with bone structure and metabolism, including trabecular bone mass (TBM), osteoid area (OA), osteocalcin (OCN), insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), parathyroid hormone (PTH), urinary hydroxyproline (uHP) and vitamin D. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were divided into four groups. The control rats received a 18% protein-containing diet; a second group, an isocaloric, 2% protein-containing diet; a third one, an isocaloric, 36% ethanol-containing diet and a fourth, an isocaloric diet containing 2% protein and 36% ethanol. After sacrifice, TBM and OA were histomorphometrically assessed; bone and serum manganese and copper were determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry, and serum OCN, IGF-1, PTH, uHP and vitamin D by radioimmunoassay. Ethanol-fed rats showed decreased TBM and bone manganese. Significant relationships existed between bone manganese and TBM, serum IGF-1 and OCN. Ethanol leads to a decrease in bone manganese, related to decreased bone mass and bone synthesis. No alterations were found in bone copper.
Effect of vitamin D on insulin sensitivity in elderly patients with impaired fasting glucose.	Recent data has shown that vitamin D increases insulin sensitivity; however, there is little evidence about the effects of this treatment on elderly people with impaired fasting glucose. The aim of the present study was to investigate the effect of vitamin D treatment on insulin sensitivity and metabolic parameters in elderly people with impaired fasting glucose.
Dairy-rich diets augment fat loss on an energy-restricted diet: a multicenter trial.	A 12-week randomized controlled multi-center clinical trial was conducted in 106 overweight and obese adults. Diets were designed to produce a 2,093 kJ/day energy deficit with either low calcium (LC; ~600 mg/day), high calcium (HC; ~1,400 mg/day), or high dairy (HD; three dairy servings, diet totaling ~1,400 mg/day). Ninety-three subjects completed the trial, and 68 met all a priori weekly compliance criteria. Both HC and HD contained comparable levels of calcium, but HC was only ~30% as effective as HD in suppressing 1,25-(OH)(2)D and exerted no significant effects on weight loss or body composition compared to LC. In the group that met compliance criteria, HD resulted in ~two-fold augmentation of fat loss compared to LC and HC (HD: -4.43 ± 0.53 kg; LC: -2.69 ± 0.0.53 kg; HC: -2.23 ± 0.73 kg, p < 0.025); assessment of all completers and an intent-to-treat analysis produced similar trends. HD augmentated central (trunk) fat loss (HD: -2.38 ± 0.30 kg; HC: -1.42 ± 0.30 kg; LC: -1.36 ± 0.42 kg, p < 0.05) and waist circumference (HD: -7.65 ± 0.75 cm; LC: -4.92 ± 0.74 cm; LC: -4.95 ± 1.05 cm, p < 0.025). Similar effects were noted among all subjects completing the study and in an intent-to-treat analysis. These data indicate that dairy-rich diets augment weight loss by targeting the fat compartment during energy restriction.
Vitamin D status during pregnancy and aspects of offspring health.	Low maternal vitamin D levels during pregnancy have been linked to various health outcomes in the offspring, ranging from periconceptional effects to diseases of adult onset. Maternal and infant cord 25(OH)D levels are highly correlated. Here, we review the available evidence for these adverse health effects. Most of the evidence has arisen from observational epidemiological studies, but randomized controlled trials are now underway. The evidence to date supports that women should be monitored and treated for vitamin D deficiency during pregnancy but optimal and upper limit serum 25(OH)D levels during pregnancy are not known.
Vitamin D and cardiovascular disease.	Vitamin D insufficiency/deficiency has been observed worldwide at all stages of life. It has been characterized as a public health problem, since low concentrations of this vitamin have been linked to the pathogenesis of several chronic diseases. Several studies have suggested that vitamin D is involved in cardiovascular diseases and have provided evidence that it has a role in reducing cardiovascular disease risk. It may be involved in regulation of gene expression through the presence of vitamin D receptors in various cells, regulation of blood pressure (through renin-angiotensin system), and modulation of cell growth and proliferation including vascular smooth muscle cells and cardiomyocytes. Identifying correct mechanisms and relationships between vitamin D and such diseases could be important in relation to patient care and healthcare policies.
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with silent coronary artery disease in cardiovascularly asymptomatic African Americans with HIV infection.	Growing evidence suggests that vitamin D deficiency Is associated with clinical coronary artery disease (CAD). The relationship between vitamin D deficiency and subclinical CAD in HIV-infected individuals is not well-characterized.
Children with protein-losing enteropathy after the Fontan operation are at risk for abnormal bone mineral density.	Protein-losing enteropathy (PLE) is a rare but potentially devastating complication of single-ventricle physiology after the Fontan operation. Although abnormal bone mineral density (BMD) is a known complication of chronic disease and congenital heart disease, no reports have described BMD in patients with PLE. This study investigated a cross-sectional sample of children and young adults with a confirmed diagnosis of PLE. Serum levels of 25(OH)D, calcium, total protein, and albumin were recorded from the first outpatient encounter with each subject. Corrected calcium (cCa) was calculated from the serum calcium and albumin levels. Dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) was used to measure BMD, and z-scores were generated using appropriate software. DXA results were available for 12 patients (eight males and four females). The age at DXA ranged from 7.2 to 25.2 years. The mean z-score was -1.73 standard deviation (SD) for the entire cohort, with 42 % z-scores below -2 SDs. Serum 25(OH)D levels were abnormal in 58 % of the patients. There was a positive correlation between cCa and DXA z-score and a negative correlation between total protein and DXA z-score. Patients receiving corticosteroid therapy had a significantly lower DXA z-score than those not receiving corticosteroids (-3.15 vs. -0.31; p = 0.02). Children with PLE are at risk for abnormal BMD compared with age- and sex-matched control subjects. In the study cohort, corticosteroid exposure, a marker of disease severity, appeared to be associated with decreased BMD. Routine bone health screening is warranted for children with PLE, particularly those receiving corticosteroid therapy.
Vitamin D deficiency and changes in serum vitamin D levels with treatment among tuberculosis patients in South Korea.	Vitamin D deficiency has been reported to be associated with the development of active tuberculosis (TB), but many discrepancies exist among studies. The aims of this study were to compare the frequency of vitamin D deficiency in a Korean population of TB patients and control subjects, and to monitor the changes in vitamin D levels during TB treatment.
Vitamin D status of low birth weight infants in Delhi: a comparative study.	To evaluate vitamin D status of preterm and term low birthweight (LBW) and term normal birth weight (NBW; weight ≥ 2500 g) infants at birth and in early infancy.
Association among vitamin D, oral candidiasis, and calprotectinemia in HIV.	Vitamin D deficiency is associated with negative health outcomes, including infections. Vitamin D modulates inflammation and down-regulates the expression of calprotectin, a molecule which influences neutrophil functions and which has been linked to oral candidiasis (OC), the most prevalent oral lesion in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). We hypothesized a positive association between vitamin D deficiency and OC, and that this effect was partially modulated by calprotectinemia. Plasma calprotectin and serum 25 (OH) vitamin D levels were measured in stored samples from 84 HIV-seropositive Chicago women enrolled in the Oral Substudy of the Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS). OC and vitamin D deficiency were diagnosed in, respectively, 14 (16.7%) and 46 (54.8%) of those studied. Vitamin D deficiency was positively associated with OC (p = 0.011) and with higher calprotectinemia (p = 0.019) in univariate analysis. After adjustment for CD4, HIV viral load, HIV treatment, and tobacco and heroin/methadone use, vitamin D deficiency remained a significant predictor of OC (OR 5.66; 95% confidence interval 1.01-31.71). This association weakened after adjustment for calprotectinemia, supporting a role for calprotectinemia as a moderator of this effect. These findings support studies to examine the effect of vitamin D status on calprotectinemia, neutrophil functions, and opportunistic mucosal infections in HIV.
Vitamin D levels in Hispanics with multiple sclerosis.	Vitamin D has been associated with multiple sclerosis (MS) and several markers of disease state in whites. There are limited reports of vitamin D's influence in MS in ethnic groups, such as in Hispanics. In this study, we compared vitamin D levels in Hispanics and whites with MS and tried to determine whether season or increasing disability influence hypovitaminosis D in Hispanics with MS. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] levels and clinical characteristics were compared in a cross-sectional sample of Hispanics (n = 80) and whites (n = 80) with MS recruited from the University of Southern California. Serum 25(OH)D levels were significantly lower in Hispanics than whites with MS (mean and standard deviation 25.1 ± 9.4 and 37.3 ± 19.8 ng/ml, respectively; p < 0.001). Hispanics were significantly more likely than whites to be vitamin D insufficient (≤ 30 ng/ml; 70 vs. 41 %, respectively; p < 0.001) and deficient (≤ 20 ng/ml; 40 vs. 14 %, respectively, p < 0.001). In Hispanics, serum 25(OH)D levels were not influenced by season (p = 0.8) or higher physical disability (EDSS ≥ 6, p = 0.7). We found that the relationship between vitamin D and MS differs by Hispanic ethnicity. Hypovitaminosis D was significantly more common among Hispanics than among whites with MS, and the majority of Hispanics were vitamin D insufficient. Interestingly, there was no association between vitamin D levels and season or increasing disability in the Hispanics. Our findings imply that factors influencing vitamin D levels and possibly vitamin D requirements may vary by ethnicity in patients with MS. These results should be confirmed in larger, prospective multi-ethnic cohort studies.
Deletion of PTH rescues skeletal abnormalities and high osteopontin levels in Klotho-/- mice.	Maintenance of normal mineral ion homeostasis is crucial for many biological activities, including proper mineralization of the skeleton. Parathyroid hormone (PTH), Klotho, and FGF23 have been shown to act as key regulators of serum calcium and phosphate homeostasis through a complex feedback mechanism. The phenotypes of Fgf23(-/-) and Klotho(-/-) (Kl(-/-)) mice are very similar and include hypercalcemia, hyperphosphatemia, hypervitaminosis D, suppressed PTH levels, and severe osteomalacia/osteoidosis. We recently reported that complete ablation of PTH from Fgf23(-/-) mice ameliorated the phenotype in Fgf23(-/-)/PTH(-/-) mice by suppressing serum vitamin D and calcium levels. The severe osteomalacia in Fgf23(-/-) mice, however, persisted, suggesting that a different mechanism is responsible for this mineralization defect. In the current study, we demonstrate that deletion of PTH from Kl(-/-) (Kl(-/-)/PTH(-/-) or DKO) mice corrects the abnormal skeletal phenotype. Bone turnover markers are restored to wild-type levels; and, more importantly, the skeletal mineralization defect is completely rescued in Kl(-/-)/PTH(-/-) mice. Interestingly, the correction of the osteomalacia is accompanied by a reduction in the high levels of osteopontin (Opn) in bone and serum. Such a reduction in Opn levels could not be observed in Fgf23(-/-)/PTH(-/-) mice, and these mice showed sustained osteomalacia. This significant in vivo finding is corroborated by in vitro studies using calvarial osteoblast cultures that show normalized Opn expression and rescued mineralization in Kl(-/-)/PTH(-/-) mice. Moreover, continuous PTH infusion of Kl(-/-) mice significantly increased Opn levels and osteoid volume, and decreased trabecular bone volume. In summary, our results demonstrate for the first time that PTH directly impacts the mineralization disorders and skeletal deformities of Kl(-/-), but not of Fgf23(-/-) mice, possibly by regulating Opn expression. These are significant new perceptions into the role of PTH in skeletal and disease processes and suggest FGF23-independent interactions of PTH with Klotho.
Vitamin D and antiphospholipid syndrome.	Vitamin D (vitD) has been shown to have multiple immunomodulatory properties. Hypovitaminosis D has been described in many systemic autoimmune diseases. Antiphospholipid syndrome (APS), an autoimmune disease characterized by immune-mediated thrombosis and pregnancy loss, is a peculiar model for studying vitD, since these patients do not usually have a full-blown autoimmune disease, nor do they have particular restrictions regarding sun exposure. We assessed 25-OH vitD levels in 115 APS and 128 normal healthy donors (NHD) with the LIAISON® chemiluminescent immunoassay by DiaSorin (Italy). Median values were lower in APS patients than in NHD, with the greatest difference occurring during summertime (p < 0.01), suggesting that APS patients may be somehow prevented from vitD generation upon sun exposure. In our cohort, APS patients may have been instructed to use sunscreens in the presence of positive antinuclear antibodies (ANA). Comparing patients with positive and negative ANA, we found comparable vitD levels during the summer. By subdividing APS patients according to clinical features, thrombotic APS patients showed significantly lower levels than did pure obstetric APS patients (p < 0.01). In conclusion, our study confirms previous reports of hypovitaminosis D in APS patients, making them more similar to patients with other systemic autoimmune diseases than NHD. Hypovitaminosis D may be part of the mosaic of factors that determine autoimmunity, rather than a consequence of chronic disease and its treatment. The observation that patients with thrombotic APS, an aggressive phenotype, may be more deficient than those with exclusive obstetric manifestations fits well with the beneficial effects of vitD on thrombosis described both in vitro and in vivo. Therefore, there may be a rationale to assess the efficacy of vitD supplementation in APS patients.
Peripheral and central bone mineral density in Charcot's neuroarthropathy compared in diabetic and nondiabetic populations.	This prospective study was performed to compare calcaneal and lumbar bone mineral density (BMD) in individuals with and without diabetes mellitus. We compared bone density with the time from onset of Charcot's neuroarthropathy (CN) in patients with unilateral, nonoperative, reconstructive-stage CN. The final purpose was to investigate the role that sex, age, and serum vitamin D level may have in osseous recovery.
The prevalence of vitamin deficiency in clinical practice is assay-dependent.	Vitamin D deficiency is an important concern in clinical settings and recently, international agencies have recognised the importance of 25-OHD assays in defining vitamin D status. Thus, our aim was to assess the consistency of different vitamin D assays in clinical practice.
Vitamin D supplementation is required to normalize serum level of 25OH-vitamin D in older adults: an observational study of 974 hip fracture inpatients.	Vitamin D deficiency is highly prevalent in older adults in all continents. In this study we assessed the vitamin D status of hip fracture subjects across different hospitals in a real word situation using the data from a multicenter cohort study on outcomes in orthogeriatric units.
Vitamin D and gestational diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis.	Conflicting results currently exists on the association between vitamin D and glucose metabolism. The role of maternal vitamin D status in gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is not clear. This meta-analysis aimed to examine this role in women with GDM compared with normal glucose tolerance (NGT).
Vitamin D-deficient rickets mimicking ankylosing spondylitis in an adolescent girl.	Vitamin D-deficient rickets (VDDR) remains an important health problem especially in developing countries. Insufficient dietary intake of vitamin D and inadequate sun exposure increase the risk of vitamin D deficiency. Since their vitamin D requirement is increased, children and adolescents are potentially at higher risk for vitamin D deficiency. In adolescents, vitamin D deficiency causes osteomalacia, osteoporosis and muscle weakness. While osteoporosis is not associated with bone pain, osteomalacia has been associated with isolated or generalized bone pain. The present case suffered from generalized bone pain for three years. She was misdiagnosed as ankylosing spondylitis, which is a seronegative arthropathy, and was treated with corticosteroids and methotrexate, which have potential side effects. Hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, elevated alkaline phosphatase level, secondary hyperparathyroidism, and extremely low vitamin D level were consistent with the diagnosis of severe vitamin D deficiency. Complete clinical and biochemical resolution was achieved with vitamin D replacement.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease is associated with low levels of vitamin D.	COPD patients may be at increased risk for vitamin D (25(OH)D) deficiency, but risk factors for deficiency among COPD patients have not been extensively reported.
Determinants of vitamin D status in long-term renal transplant patients.	In this study, we explored the determinants of vitamin D status in a large cohort of stable, Long-term renal transplant (RTx) patients. Serum 25(OH)D concentrations, and bone biochemistry parameters, were retrospectively analyzed from 266 RTx patients (>10 yr post-engraftment) presenting to clinic over the course of a year. Forty-five percent of the cohort were vitamin D deficient (<37.5 nM), 38% insufficient (37.5 75-nM), and 17% sufficient (>75 nM). Serum 25(OH)D concentrations were higher in patients presenting in summer (p<0.001) and in more active patients (p<0.05). RTx patients with non-melanoma skin cancer (NMSC) (n=45) had higher 25(OH)D concentrations than patients without NMSC (n=221; p<0.05) despite these patients being older, having worse eGFR, transplanted for longer, and less active physically (p<0.05). Lower 25(OH)D concentrations were associated with higher PTH concentrations (p<0.05) which, in the setting of widespread hypovitaminosis, suggests that secondary hyperparathyroidism was common in this cohort. In conclusion, season and activity status are important determinants of vitamin D status. We report, for the first time, that NMSC is associated with higher 25(OH)D, probably through increased UV radiation exposure. Long-term RTx patients may benefit from oral vitamin D supplementation, but this requires a randomized controlled trial to confirm.
Prevalence of 25-hydroxyvitamin D deficiency in Korean adolescents: association with age, season and parental vitamin D status.	We aimed to assess the prevalence and associated factors of vitamin D deficiency in healthy adolescents and to determine parent-adolescent association in vitamin D status.
Vitamin D, race, and experimental pain sensitivity in older adults with knee osteoarthritis.	Low circulating serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (referred to hereafter as vitamin D) have been correlated with many health conditions, including chronic pain. Recent clinical practice guidelines define vitamin D levels <20 ng/ml as deficient and levels of 21-29 ng/ml as insufficient. Vitamin D insufficiency, including the most severe levels of deficiency, is more prevalent in black Americans. Ethnic and race group differences have been reported in both clinical and experimental pain, with black Americans reporting increased pain. The purpose of this study was to examine whether variations in vitamin D levels contribute to race differences in knee osteoarthritis pain.
Prospective study of serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentration and mortality in a Chinese population.	Prospective epidemiologic data on the association between vitamin D and mortality are limited, particularly in Asian populations. Among subjects in Linxian, China, the authors aimed to test whether baseline serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) concentrations in a prospective cohort were associated with all-cause mortality and cause-specific mortality rates over 24 years of follow-up (1986-2010). Serum 25(OH)D concentrations were measured in 1,101 subjects using an immunoassay. Hazard ratios and 95% confidence intervals were calculated using Cox regression models that were adjusted for age, sex, tobacco smoking, alcohol drinking, and hypertension. The 25th, 50th, and 75th percentile concentrations of 25(OH)D were 19.6, 31.9, and 48.4 nmol/L, respectively. During follow-up, 793 subjects died, including 279 who died of cerebrovascular accident, 217 who died of cancer, and 200 cardiovascular disease deaths. All-cause mortality was not associated with 25(OH)D concentrations using continuous models (for every 15 nmol/L, hazard ratio = 1.01, 95% confidence interval: 0.97, 1.05) or quartile models (fourth vs. first quartiles, hazard ratio = 1.06, 95% confidence interval: 0.87, 1.30; P for trend = 0.731). The authors also found no association with the cause-specific mortality outcomes. Results were similar for men and women. This study showed that prediagnostic serum 25(OH)D concentrations were not associated with all-cause or cause-specific mortality rates in this Chinese population who had low levels of vitamin D.
Lipopolysaccharide-induced lung injury is independent of serum vitamin D concentration.	Vitamin D deficiency is increasing in incidence around the world. Vitamin D, a fat-soluble vitamin, has documented effects on the innate and adaptive immune system, including macrophage and T regulatory (Treg) cell function. Since Treg cells are important in acute lung injury resolution, we hypothesized that vitamin D deficiency increases the severity of injury and delays injury resolution in lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induced acute lung injury. Vitamin D deficient mice were generated, using C57BL/6 mice, through diet modification and limited exposure to ultraviolet light. At 8 weeks of age, vitamin D deficient and sufficient mice received 2.5 g/kg of LPS or saline intratracheal. At 1 day, 3 days and 10 days, mice were anesthetized and lung elastance measured. Mice were euthanized and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, lungs and serum were collected. Ex vivo neutrophil chemotaxis was evaluated, using neutrophils from vitamin D sufficient and deficient mice exposed to the chemoattractants, KC/CXCL1 and C5a, and to bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from LPS-exposed mice. We found no difference in the degree of lung injury. Leukocytes were mildly decreased in the bronchoalveolar fluid of vitamin D deficient mice at 1 day. Ex-vivo, neutrophils from vitamin D deficient mice showed impaired chemotaxis to KC but not to C5a. Vitamin D deficiency modestly impairs neutrophil chemotaxis; however, it does not affect lung injury or its resolution in an LPS model of acute lung injury.
Vitamin D deficiency in oncology patients--an ignored condition: impact on hypocalcemia and quality of life.	Vitamin D status is not evaluated routinely in cancer patients with bone metastasis who are treated with bisphosphonates.
Vitamin D deficiency is associated with atherosclerosis-promoting risk factor clustering but not vascular damage in children.	Vitamin D has been associated with multiple cardiometabolic risk factors in children but there is a paucity of studies examining its correlation to vascular function and structure. Our objective was to determine whether there is a correlation between vitamin D, cardiometabolic risk, vascular distensibility and carotid artery intima-media thickness (CIMT) in high-risk children.
Premenstrual symptoms in dysmenorrheic college students: prevalence and relation to vitamin D and parathyroid hormone levels.	To determine the prevalence of premenstrual symptoms (PMS) due to primary dysmenorrhea among a sample of university female students, and to explore possible association with vitamin D and parathyroid (PTH) levels, as well as frequency of consumption of dairy products.
Effect of high-dose vitamin D3 intake on ambulation, muscular pain and bone mineral density in a woman with multiple sclerosis: a 10-year longitudinal case report.	Mounting evidence correlate vitamin D3 (cholecalciferol) supplementation or higher serum levels of vitamin D (25(OH)D) with a lower risk of developing multiple sclerosis (MS), reduced relapse rate, slower progression or fewer new brain lesions. We present here the case of a woman who was diagnosed with MS in 1990. From 1980 to 2000, her ability to walk decreased from ~20 to 1 km per day. Since January 2001, a vitamin D3 supplement was ingested daily. The starting dose was 20 mcg (800 IU)/day and escalated to 100 mcg (4000 IU)/day in September 2004 and then to 150 mcg (6000 IU)/day in December 2005. Vitamin D3 intake reduced muscular pain and improved ambulation from 1 (February 2000) to 14 km/day (February 2008). Vitamin D intake over 10 years caused no adverse effects: no hypercalcaemia, nephrolithiasis or hypercalciuria were observed. Bowel problems in MS may need to be addressed as they can cause malabsorption including calcium, which may increase serum PTH and 1,25(OH)2D levels, as well as bone loss. We suggest that periodic assessment of vitamin D3, calcium and magnesium intake, bowel problems and the measurement of serum 25(OH)D, PTH, Ca levels, UCa/Cr and bone health become part of the integral management of persons with MS.
Serum vitamin D concentrations are associated with falling and cognitive function in older adults.	To elucidate the mechanism through which vitamin D is associated with decreased falls.
Ethnicity and vitamin D]	Cohort studies, mainly US, show that vitamin D deficiency is more common in African-American population. Social and environmental factors play a role but the difference in skin color is essential. Despite low 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations, a lower risk of fragility or fracture exists in these populations. Vitamin D deficiency is a contributing factor in many chronic diseases. There is a relationship between vitamin D deficiencies, progression of chronic kidney disease and increased relative risk of mortality. If the ethnicity of patients is now taken into account to estimate renal function, probably specific recommendations for vitamin D deficiency are needed. 
Metabolic and endocrine correlates of cognitive function in healthy young women.	Obesity has been associated with cognitive decline in longitudinal studies of older individuals. We hypothesized that the cognitive sequelae of obesity may be detectable in the reproductive years. In addition, we explored the hypothesis that these associations may be mediated by the hormonal milieu.
Children with hemoglobin E/β-thalassemia have a high risk of being vitamin D deficient even if they get abundant sun exposure: a study from Thailand.	Vitamin D is a key component in calcium homeostasis, bone mineralization and immune function, and people with a vitamin D deficiency may therefore be at higher risk of osteoporosis, osteopenia, delayed growth and fractures. Vitamin D deficiency is a known clinical complication of patients with β-thalassemia major; however, as yet there are limited data on the vitamin D status of patients with Hb E/β-thalassemia. Hb E/β-thalassemia is characterized by a wide clinical heterogeneity ranging from non-transfusion dependency to transfusion dependency. Because patients with Hb E/β-thalassemia are so clinically diverse, the prevalence of vitamin D deficiency might differ among Hb E/β-thalassemia patients.
A genomewide association study identified CYP2J2 as a gene controlling serum vitamin D status in beef cattle.	Vitamin D is an important modulator of calcium homeostasis and has several effects on the immune system. The objective of the study was to estimate its heritability and to identify genomic regions associated with concentration of circulating 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) in beef cattle. Status of vitamin D was measured in crossbred animals from Cycle VII of the United States Meat Animal Research Center (USMARC) Germplasm Evaluation Project. Progeny were born from March through May in 2008 and in 2010. Heritability was estimated and a genomewide association study was conducted on the concentration of 25OHD measured in 1,432 animals at preconditioning and 1,333 animals at weaning. Genotyping of the population was done by imputing from the parental generation genotyped with a high density array (777,000 SNP) to a target population genotyped with a medium density SNP array (50,000 SNP). After imputation, 675,018 SNP were used in the genomewide association study. Heritability of concentration of circulating 25OHD in cattle at preconditioning and at weaning was 0.41 ± 0.08 and 0.32 ± 0.11, respectively. A region on chromosome 3 was associated with circulating 25OHD. The region on BTA3 had 7 SNP significantly (P < 7.4 × 10(-8)) associated at the genomewide level with serum concentrations of serum 25OHD. Genomewide significant SNP spanned the region between 84.93 and 86.65 megabases (Mb); however, 6 SNP reside between 86.64 and 86.65 Mb. The gene CYP2J2 was identified as a candidate gene associated with concentrations of serum 25OHD in cattle. This is 1 of 6 enzymes involved in metabolizing vitamin D to 25OHD. Results from the present study suggest that CYP2J2 is a gene controlling serum 25OHD concentrations in cattle. CYP2J2 should be considered a prime candidate for understanding both genetic and physiological factors affecting serum 25OHD concentrations in cattle and, therefore, vitamin D status. 
Prenatal vitamin D status and risk of psychotic experiences at age 18years-a longitudinal birth cohort.	Low early life vitamin D status is associated with an increased risk of schizophrenia and psychotic experiences. Here we examine if maternal pregnancy vitamin D concentrations are associated with offspring psychotic experiences as young adults.
Maternal vitamin D levels during pregnancy and offspring eating disorder risk in adolescence.	To determine if maternal vitamin D concentrations at 18 weeks gestation predict offspring eating disorder risk in adolescence.
Vitamin D and muscle function: is there a threshold in the relation?	First, to determine the association between serum 25 hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) concentration and muscle mass, strength, and performance. Second, to explore if there is a threshold in the association.
Vitamin D status is associated with early markers of cardiovascular disease in prepubertal children.	The associations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D], non-high-density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL), and related markers of early cardiovascular disease (CVD) are unclear in prepubertal children.
An observational study reveals that neonatal vitamin D is primarily determined by maternal contributions: implications of a new assay on the roles of vitamin D forms.	Vitamin D concentrations during pregnancy are measured to diagnose states of insufficiency or deficiency. The aim of this study is to apply accurate assays of vitamin D forms [single- hydroxylated [25(OH)D₂, 25(OH)D₃], double-hydroxylated [1α,25(OH)₂D₂, 1a25(OH)₂D₃], epimers [3-epi-25(OH)D₂, 3-epi-25(OH)D₃] in mothers (serum) and neonates (umbilical cord) to i) explore maternal and neonatal vitamin D biodynamics and ii) to identify maternal predictors of neonatal vitamin D concentrations.
Vitamin D deficiency in alcohol-use disorders and its relationship to comorbid major depression: a cross-sectional study of inpatients in Nepal.	Mounting evidence suggests that deficiency of vitamin D may be associated with major health problems, including alcohol-use disorders (AUD) and major depression (MD). This study aimed to identify the vitamin D status of Nepalese inpatients with an AUD. We explored socio-demographic and alcohol-use related correlates and the relationship between vitamin D deficiency and comorbid MD.
Vitamin D deficiency is a risk factor for obesity and diabetes type 2 in women at late reproductive age.	It was suggested that glucose metabolism and body fat content depend on serum levels of 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D]. We studied 320 healthy women at late reproductive age of 40 to 52 years old (mean age 46.1±4.5) from St. Petersburg (North-West region of Russia). 25(ОН)D levels were from 19.4 to 134.0 nMol/L (mean 52.9±22.7). Vitamin D deficiency (lower than 50 nMol/L) and insufficiency (50-75 nMol/L) was revealed in 59.1% and 27.8% of women, respectively. The study showed that low 25(OH)D levels were associated with obesity (r=-0.35, p$#X003C0.01), increased plasma glucose levels after OGTT (r=-0.31, p$#X003C0.01) and decreased insulin sensitivity index (r=-0.28, p$#X003C0.01). We found that 25(OH)D levels below 50 nMol/L were associated with obesity risk (OR 2.25[1.05-3.95], CI 95%) but not with risk of impaired glucose metabolism (1.07[0.54-2.12],CI95%). Our results showed that vitamin D insufficiency is highly prevalent in the population of healthy women. Low 25(OH)D levels correlated with high body fat, glucose levels and decreased insulin sensitivity. We conclude that vitamin D deficiency is a potential risk factor for obesity and development of insulin resistance leading to diabetes type 2. 
Parathyroid hormone has an important role in blood pressure regulation in vitamin D-insufficient individuals.	The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether vitamin D status is related to blood pressure (BP) in adults.
Vitamin D and diabetes: the odd couple.	The beneficial effects of vitamin D supplementation for several health-related issues, including the prevention of diabetes, are a topic of intense discussion. Data from epidemiological studies suggest a correlation between vitamin D deficiency and higher prevalence of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes (T1D and T2D). In animal models, vitamin D deficiency predisposes to diabetes whereas vitamin D supplementation prevents disease. Nevertheless, well-designed clinical intervention studies are lacking. We discuss here the evidence for a role of vitamin D in diabetes and propose that vitamin D deficiency should be avoided, especially in all at-risk people. This should be possible by implementing global guidelines and by focusing on daily dietary supplementation with small doses of vitamin D. 
Metabolism and main effects of vitamin D]	Vitamin D is not a vitamin stricto sensu as its main source does not come from diet. Vitamin D should rather be considered as a prohormone. To become fully active, vitamin D must be hydroxylated into 25(OH)D in the liver and then into 1,25(OH)2D (also called calcitriol) in the kidney, but also in many other tissues. The main classical effects of vitamin D concern bone and calcium/phosphorus metabolism. Many non-classical effects of vitamin D are suggested by the quasi-ubiquitous presence of the vitamin D receptor and by myriads of studies showing an association between vitamin D deficiency/insufficiency and an increased incidence or a poor prognostic of many diseases. The 25(OH)D serum concentration is the biological index that defines vitamin D status. There is currently no absolute consensus on the definition of vitamin D deficiency. Many experts consider that a 25(OH)D level less than 50 nmol/L corresponds to vitamin D deficiency whereas a concentration between 50 and 75 nmol/L corresponds to vitamin D insufficiency. These definitions are mostly based on the musculoskeletal effects of vitamin D.
Vitamin D and pregnancy]	Vitamin D insufficiency is characterized, since 2005, by 25(OH)D concentration less than 75 nmol/L (or 30 ng/mL). Vitamin D could interfere with many mechanisms involved in preeclampsia's pathogenesis including trophoblastic invasion and immunomodulation as well as blood pressure control and proteinuria. Occurrence of preeclampsia and gestational diabetes seems to be linked to vitamin D deficiency but recent data in the literature are contradictory. Vitamin D supplementation during pregnancy is controversial. Some societies consider it unnecessary and others recommend up to 2000 UI/d. There is no reported case of teratogenicity linked with vitamin D intake.
Vitamin D in childhood]	Infantile Nutritional Rickets has disappeared almost completely in France since 1992 as vitamin D enriched formula availability and previous vitamin D supplementation of infants. The search of evocative symptoms of rickets should be a routine procedure in infants, in particular in case of insufficient vitamin D intake i.e. breastfeeding, and the possibility of vitamin D resistant rickets. Hypocalcaemia occurs not only at the first but also the advanced stages of vitamin D deficiency, and may be responsible for severe cardiologic, neurologic or respiratory complications with possibility of infant death. For the young children between 1 and 5 years and for adolescents, vitamin D insufficiency is responsible for poor skeletal mineralization, loss of bone strength, and a reduction of peak of bone mineral mass at the end of puberty. The new Dietary Reference Intakes (DRI, 2011) increased greatly the Recommended Dietary allowances (RDA) from 200 to 600 IU/d (15 μg/d) for individuals from 1 to 70 years of age. These levels are not reached in winter, even in countries, like USA and Canada, where vitamin D milk fortification is mandatory and others like Japan and North-European countries despite high fish consumption. From 1 to 5 years of age and during adolescence, a winter vitamin D3 supplementation is necessary with 80.000 or 100.000 IU periodic loads every 3 months i.e. in November and February. In cases of an underlying risk, i.e. insufficient vitamin D photosynthesis in summertime (dark skin, wearing heavily skin-covering clothes, or several skin diseases), or digestive, renal or nutritional pathologies, use of some drugs, loading dose of 80.000 or 100.000 IU, every 3 months should be administered over the year.
Influence of vitamin D on cardiovascular risk]	Few interventional studies have reported a positive effect of native vitamin D supplementation on intermediary parameters of insulin resistance, of cardiovascular risk and on major cardiovascular events and mortality. 
Vitamin D: non-skeletal actions and rational use.	Recent years have witnessed a substantial increase in the number of seric determinations of vitamin D, in a worldwide basis. At Hospital das Clínicas of Faculdade de Medicina of Universidade de São Paulo that increase reached 700% over the last four years. Nevertheless there are many controversies on the literature about the role of vitamin D in conditions unrelated to the musculoskeletal system. In this study the metabolism, sources and actions of vitamin D on the body are reviewed. Observational studies, clinical trials, systematic reviews and metanalysis which focused on the relationship between the vitamin and conditions such as cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and falls were searched on the literature, analyzed and discussed. Results are presented as quiz and answer, tables and a figure. The role of vitamin D on the above-mentioned conditions is discussed, and the controversial issues stressed. 
Two neglected biologic risk factors in bone grafting and implantology: high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol and low serum vitamin D.	Following a failure of a bone graft or an implant placement, the hypothesis of a biological abnormality is rarely considered as a possible cause. A systematic search of peer-reviewed literature for dyslipidemia or vitamin D deficiency may explain this lack of consideration. Excess low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (dyslipidemia) is responsible for a slower bone metabolism or lower dental implant osseointegration. In addition, vitamin D is a key factor for linking innate and adaptive immunity. Both of these factors are compromised under the conditions of vitamin D deficiency. Therefore, vitamin D deficiency slows implant osseointegration and increases the risk of graft infection. Vitamin D is also involved in immune function and therefore allergic reactions. 
Vitamin D and Crohn's disease in the adult patient: a review.	Crohn's disease (CD) is characterized as a chronic immune-mediated inflammatory disorder of the gastrointestinal tract. Current consensus surrounding the cause of the disease suggests a complex interplay between genetic susceptibility, the intestinal microbiome and environmental factors, leading to the aberrant Th1 and Th17 immune cell mediated response. Vitamin D deficiency is common in CD patients, and long-standing deficiency has been associated with reduced bone mineral density (BMD). Accumulating evidence now suggests that in addition to maintaining skeletal integrity, vitamin D also plays an integral role in regulating the general immune response, a function employed via its genomic actions on the vitamin D receptor (VDR). The VDR is expressed in all immune cells and both directly and indirectly targeted by the bioactive form of vitamin D, 1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25[OH]2D). Impaired regulation or deficiency of the vitamin has been linked to the promotion of self-reactive T cell development, loss of immune tolerance to self-structures, and experimental colitis in animal models, whereas the subsequent administration of the vitamin in these models resulted in the improvement of immune-mediated symptoms. In addition, low vitamin D has been associated with disease activity in CD patients, and supplementation appears to be beneficial in improving clinical scores and reducing inflammation. Therefore, the primary aims of this article were to review the molecular evidence supporting the immunoregulatory roles of vitamin D and its supplementation in the CD patient, based on existing literature. The physiological processes, accepted serum concentration values, and its well-recognized role in bone health were also summarized. 
Associations between serum folate and vitamin D levels and incident mouse sensitization in adults.	Although both folic acid intake and vitamin D levels are hypothesized to be contributors to the increased incidence of allergic diseases, prospective studies of these relationships have not been done in adults.
Identifying the threshold for vitamin D insufficiency in relation to cardiometabolic markers.	To determine the association between vitamin D status and cardiometabolic indicators, and to determine the vitamin threshold that affects these parameters.
Low bone mineral density and fragility fractures in permanent vegetative state patients.	Disuse of the musculoskeletal system causes bone loss. Whether patients in vegetative state, a dramatic example of immobilization after severe brain injury, suffer from bone loss and fractures is currently unknown. Serum markers of bone turnover, bone mineral density (BMD) measurements, and clinical data were cross-sectionally analyzed in 30 consecutive vegetative state patients of a dedicated apallic care unit between 2003 and 2007 and compared with age- and sex-matched healthy individuals. Vegetative state patients showed low calcium levels and vitamin D deficiency compared with healthy controls. Serum bone turnover markers revealed high turnover as evidenced by markedly elevated carboxy-terminal telopeptide of type I collagen (β-crosslaps) and increased levels of alkaline phosphatase. BMD measured by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) scanning showed strongly decreased T- and Z-scores for hip and spine. Over a period of 5 years, 8 fragility fractures occurred at peripheral sites in 6 of 30 patients (n = 3 femur, n = 2 tibia, n = 2 fibula, n = 1 humerus). In conclusion, high bone turnover and low BMD is highly prevalent in vegetative state patients, translating into a clinically relevant problem as shown by fragility fractures in 20% of patients over a time period of 5 years. .
THRA and DIO2 mutations are unlikely to be a common cause of increased bone mineral density in euthyroid post-menopausal women.	A new autosomal dominant disorder due to mutation of THRA, which encodes thyroid hormone receptor α, is characterised by severely delayed skeletal development but only slightly abnormal thyroid status. Adult mice with disrupted thyroid hormone action in bone due to a mutation of Thra or deletion of Dio2, encoding the type 2 deiodinase, have high bone mass and mineralisation despite essentially euthyroid status. No individuals with DIO2 mutations have been described and the adult phenotype of patients with THRA mutations is largely unknown. We hypothesised that screening euthyroid adults with high bone mineral density (BMD) could be used to identify individuals with mutations of THRA or DIO2.
Prediction of vitamin D deficiency by simple patient characteristics.	Vitamin D status is currently diagnosed by measuring serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D].
Dietary vitamin D inadequacy accelerates calcification and osteoblast-like cell formation in the vascular system of LDL receptor knockout and wild-type mice.	Vitamin D insufficiency is highly associated with cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. We have demonstrated enhanced vascular calcification in LDL receptor knockout (LDLR(-/-)) mice fed a diet low in vitamin D. This study aimed to investigate the impact of a diet low in vitamin D on vascular calcification in wild-type (WT) mice lacking atherosclerotic plaques and the effects of a persistent and discontinuous vitamin D insufficiency on atherosclerotic plaque composition in LDLR(-/-) mice. The study was performed with 4-wk-old male WT and LDLR(-/-) mice that were fed a normal calcium/phosphate Western diet (210 g/kg fat, 1.5 g/kg cholesterol) containing either adequate (+D; 1000 IU/kg) or low (-D; 50 IU/kg) amounts of vitamin D-3 for 16 wk. Four groups of LDLR(-/-) mice received 1 of the 2 diets for additional 16 wk (total 32 wk) and were compared with mice fed the diets for only 16 wk. WT and LDLR(-/-) mice that were fed the -D diet for 16 wk tended to develop more calcified spots in the aortic valve than mice fed the +D diet (+50% and +56%, respectively; P < 0.10). In LDLR(-/-) mice, the extent of calcification increased from week 16 to week 32 and was higher in the -D than in the +D group (P < 0.05). The calcification, owing to the -D diet, was accompanied by highly expressed osteoblast differentiation factors, indicating a transdifferentiation of vascular cells to osteoblast-like cells. Feeding the +D diet subsequent to the -D diet reduced the vascular calcification (P < 0.05). LDLR(-/-) mice fed the -D diet for 32 wk had higher plaque lipid depositions (+48%, P < 0.05) and a higher expression of cluster of differentiation 68 (+31%, P < 0.05) and tumor necrosis factor α (+134%, P < 0.001) than the +D group. Collectively, the findings imply low vitamin D status as a causal factor for vascular calcification and atherosclerosis. 
Vitamin D levels in adults with Crohn's disease are responsive to disease activity and treatment.	Vitamin D deficiency is common in patients with Crohn's disease (CD), although whether this impairs immune responsiveness, and is related to disease activity per se, remains unclear. We sought to investigate vitamin D pathways in patients with CD according to measures of inflammation and immune response.
A review of vitamin D and Parkinson's disease.	The role of vitamin D in bone health has been known for over a century. More recent research has suggested that vitamin D may play a role in the muscular, immune, endocrine, and central nervous systems. Animal research suggests that vitamin D may have some protective effects against toxic insults that are known to damage dopamine cells, the primary cells to degenerate in PD. Persons with PD tend to have lower vitamin D levels than persons of similar ages without PD. Vitamin D levels are generally associated with bone mineral density (BMD) in persons with PD, but simply giving vitamin D does not appear to improve BMD. Results of genetic studies examining polymorphism of the vitamin D receptor and PD risk, severity, or age at onset have shown variable results, with FokI CC seeming to possibly carry some increased risk of PD. Amount of sun exposure and vitamin D levels in earlier life may influence the risk of developing PD. Cross-sectional research suggests a relationship between vitamin D levels and severity of PD symptoms. A single intervention study did show some improvement in PD with vitamin D supplementation. Vitamin D may have effects on PD symptoms and perhaps even on the risk of disease development or disease progression. More well designed intervention studies are needed to confirm the effect of vitamin D on PD symptoms. Human neuroprotection studies are needed, but probably not feasible until better biomarkers are established.
High frequency of hypovitaminosis D and low bone mineral density in a sample of HIV-infected men in Chile]	The aim of this study was to determine the frequency of hypovitaminosis D and low bone mineral density in a sample of patients within our HIV cohort.
Coexistence of low vitamin D and high fibroblast growth factor-23 plasma levels predicts an adverse outcome in patients with coronary artery disease.	Vitamin D and fibroblast growth factor-23 (FGF-23) are related with cardiovascular disorders. We have investigated the relationship of calcidiol (vitamin D metabolite) and FGF-23 plasma levels with the incidence of adverse outcomes in patients with coronary artery disease.
Change in vitamin d levels occurs early after antiretroviral therapy initiation and depends on treatment regimen in resource-limited settings.	Vitamin D has wide-ranging effects on the immune system, and studies suggest that low serum vitamin D levels are associated with worse clinical outcomes in HIV. Recent studies have identified an interaction between antiretrovirals used to treat HIV and reduced serum vitamin D levels, but these studies have been done in North American and European populations.
Evidence for in vivo upregulation of the intestinal vitamin D receptor during dietary calcium restriction in the rat.	1,25-Dihydroxyvitamin D3 [1,25(OH)2D3] increases intestinal calcium absorption through events that include binding of 1,25(OH)2D3 to the intracellular vitamin D receptor. In vitro studies using mammalian cell cultures reveal an increase in vitamin D receptor content after exposure to 1,25(OH)2D3. To test the hypothesis that 1,25(OH)2D3 increases enterocyte vitamin D receptor content in vivo, male rats were fed either a normal calcium diet (NCD, 1.2% Ca) or low calcium diet (LCD, 0.002% Ca). After 21 d LCD increased serum 1,25(OH)2D3 levels (27 +/- 3 vs. 181 +/- 17 pg/ml, P less than 0.001) and increased transepithelial mucosal to serosal calcium fluxes (Jms) across duodenum (65 +/- 21 vs. 204 +/- 47 nmol/cm2.h, NCD vs. LCD, P less than 0.01) and jejunum (23 +/- 3 vs. 46 +/- 4, P less than 0.007). No change in serosal to mucosal calcium fluxes (Jsm) were observed. LCD increased 1,25(OH)2D3 receptor number threefold in duodenum (32.9 +/- 6.7 vs. 98.7 +/- 13.7 fmol 1,25(OH)2D3/mg protein) and jejunum (34.1 +/- 9.5 vs. 84.9 +/- 7.7) without a change in the receptor affinity for 1,25(OH)2D3 (Kd is 0.17 +/- 0.06 vs. 0.21 +/- 0.02 nM for NCD and LCD duodenum, respectively). Duodenal polyadenylated vitamin D receptor mRNA determined by Northern blot analysis did not increase appreciably during LCD, suggesting that upregulation in vivo may not be due primarily to increased receptor synthesis. The results of this study indicate that under physiologic conditions as during chronic dietary calcium restriction, increased intestinal vitamin D receptor content accompanies increased calcium active transport. Upregulation of the vitamin D receptor by 1,25(OH)2D3 may result primarily from posttranslational processes that decrease degradation of the receptor with increased receptor synthesis responsible for a negligible portion of the accumulation.
The effect of endogenous estrogen fluctuation on metabolism of 25-hydroxyvitamin D.	To test the hypothesis that estrogen modulates the metabolism of 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25(OH)D) to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (1,25(OH)2D) and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (24,25(OH)2D), we studied 20 normal premenopausal women at four consecutive weekly intervals during one menstrual cycle. Estrogen stimulation was semiquantitatively defined into baseline, low-grade, or medium-grade categories, based on endogenous estrone and estradiol concentrations. 1,25(OH)2D increased incrementally from baseline levels of 34 +/- 3(SE) pg/ml to 39 +/- 3 pg/ml (P = 0.2) with low-grade estrogen stimulation and to 43 +/- 3 pg/ml (P less than 0.05) with medium-grade estrogen stimulation, while 25(OH)D, 24,25(OH)2D, vitamin D binding protein, parathyroid hormone, calcium, and phosphate did not change. 24,25(OH)2D was correlated to 25(OH)D at baseline (r = 0.65, P less than 0.01) and with low-grade estrogen stimulation (r = 0.62, P less than 0.01), but not with medium-grade stimulation (r = 0.13); these relationships are consistent with the concepts that 25(OH)D is metabolized predominantly to 24,25(OH)2D at low estrogen levels, but not at higher estrogen levels. We conclude that endogenous estrogen elevation promotes formation of 1,25(OH)2D from 25(OH)D, and that it may reciprocally inhibit synthesis of 24,25(OH)2D.
Calcium absorption following small bowel resection in man. Evidence for an adaptive response.	Seventeen patients who had undergone extensive small bowel resection were studied for calcium absorption (FACa) and plasma vitamin D metabolites. FACa was measured by a double radio-tracer technique and expressed as percentage of total oral dose. FACa was decreased compared with controls (34%, range: 3-46 v 65%, range: 57-73, P less than 0.01). A positive correlation (r = 0.49, P = 0.05) was found between FACa and the remaining length of small bowel (SBL). As wide variations in both SBL and duration after surgery were observed among the seventeen investigated patients, we were led to individualize less heterogeneous subgroups of patients. Better correlations were found when the patients were divided into two subgroups according to whether the time interval between the resection and the investigation was shorter (r = 0.75, n = 11, P less than 0.02) or longer (r = 0.89, n = 6, P = 0.05) than 2 years. In thirteen patients who had a SBL shorter than 100 cm, a positive correlation was observed between FACa and the time interval after surgery (months): r = 0.65, P less than 0.05. Plasma 1,25 (OH)2D was markedly reduced in the whole group (31 pmol l-1, range: 8-108) compared with controls (103 pmol-1, range: 59-134, P less than 0.01). The present study shows that in extensively small bowel resected patients, calcium absorption is reduced, the alteration being dependent both on the length of the remnant small bowel and on the time after surgery.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Correlation between concentrations of humoral antibodies and vitamin D nutritional status: a survey study.	The vitamin D nutritional status and the plasma concentrations of IgG, IgA, IgM and total immunoglobulins were determined in 2052 Saudi subjects. It was observed that females had significantly lower 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels than males and children had lower levels than adults. The mean levels of IgG and IgM were significantly higher in females than in males and those in adults higher than in children. There was a highly significant positive correlation between the concentrations of the circulating form of vitamin D, 25-OHD, and IgG levels in the overall population, in children and in adults. When these groups were classified into males and females the correlation was significant only for females. The significance and importance of this correlation between vitamin D nutritional status and IgG is as yet unknown. The possible clinical relevance of this study's findings are discussed.
Serum factors which alter cell membranes.	Mammalian cell membranes are much more sensitive to changes in serum ion concentrations than they are to serum cholesterol. Because of this, arterial cells function normally only in a very narrow range of serum ion concentrations. Unfortunately, new introductions into the food supply have been made in the diet since 1920 which may perturb the delicate relationships between arterial cell membranes and the blood serum to which they are exposed. For example, powerful surface active agents are used to emulsify fats in a host of popular food items. None of them have been adequately tested for their possible role in changing phospholipid head group composition of arterial or myocardial cell membranes. Ocean salt has been replaced by refined table salt removing a rich source of magnesium from the diet of Northern Europeans and Americans. Excessive amounts of Vitamin D, which may calcify soft tissue, have been added to the diet as a means of preventing a disease that does not develop in babies exposed to sunshine. The introduction of hydrogenated vegetable oil to the diet has helped to stimulate per capita fat consumption to almost twice the level of 1920. How the introduction of such technology has changed arterial cell membrane structure or function has not been considered. It is now possible to consider the influence of this technology on the food supply by the application of modern genetic engineering methods. The application of this type of methodology in the study of cholesterol metabolism and its role in atherosclerosis may help to find means of preventing heart disease and strokes.
Rickets associated with vitamin D deficiency in young sheep.	An outbreak of rickets in sheep under a year old (hoggs) appeared clinically as stiffness and rotation of the carpal joints. Histological studies confirmed the diagnosis and biochemical analyses of blood demonstrated a primary vitamin D deficiency.
Intermittent high-dose vitamin D prophylaxis during infancy: effect on vitamin D metabolites, calcium, and phosphorus.	In infants receiving intermittent high dose vitamin D prophylaxis (600,000 IU ergocalciferol per dose orally) every 3-5 mo, the serum concentrations of vitamin D metabolites, calcium (Ca), and phosphorus (P) were determined before and 2 wk after each dose. The 25-hydroxyvitamin D (OHD) concentrations increased to well above normal but the values returned to the normal range before each subsequent dose. The 24,25- and 25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D ([OH]2D) levels followed a pattern similar to that of 25-OHD, and both were closely related to the latter (r = 0.85, p less than 0.005, and r = 0.84, p less than 0.005, respectively). The 1,25-(OH)2D concentrations did not vary in a consistent pattern and remained largely within the normal range. All infants had normal Ca levels before the first dose but 14 infants (34%) later had one or both Ca values above the upper normal limit of 2.80 mmol/L (2.81-3.32 mmol/L), indicating that the vitamin D doses were excessive despite the lack of accumulative increases in serum vitamin D concentrations.
Bone fracture in elderly female with primary hyperparathyroidism: relationship among renal function, vitamin D status and fracture risk.	Among 12 aged postmenopausal females with primary hyperparathyroidism, 5 had no bone fracture and 7 had fractures. Both serum 1,25 (OH)2D levels and creatinine clearance values in patients with fracture were significantly lower than those without fracture (p less than 0.025). In addition, significant positive correlation was observed between serum 1,25 (OH)2D levels and creatinine clearance values (p less than 0.05). These data suggest that decreased serum 1,25 (OH)2D level due to renal dysfunction may causally correlate to bone fracture in postmenopausal primary hyperparathyroidism.
Calcium and vitamin D metabolism in spontaneously hypertensive rats.	We have studied the effect of dietary vitamin D restriction on serum levels of vitamin D metabolites in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and normotensive Wistar-Kyoto rats (WKY). Both WKY and SHR were fed a vitamin D-deficient or a vitamin D-supplemented diet beginning at 4 wk of age. In vitamin D-supplemented animals, the serum 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol [1,25(OH)2D3] concentration of WKY (55.4 +/- 6.6 pg/ml, n = 5) was similar to the level of SHR (46.3 +/- 5.9 pg/ml, n = 5). Plasma calcium concentration was not different between WKY and SHR. In animals fed a vitamin D-deficient diet, the serum concentration of 1,25-(OH)2D3 of SHR (23.0 +/- 1.3 pg/ml, n = 5) was significantly lower than that of WKY (67.6 +/- 4.6 pg/ml, n = 5, P less than 0.01). Plasma 25-hydroxycholecalciferol level was markedly decreased in both WKY (3.6 +/- 0.5 ng/ml, n = 7) and SHR (2.8 +/- 0.4 ng/ml). The SHR, but not the WKY, developed hypocalcemia (WKY, 9.68 mg/dl; SHR, 6.70 mg/dl). Despite hypocalcemia, fasting urinary Ca2+ excretion of SHR exceeded that of WKY. We conclude that the lower 1,25(OH)2D3 level in SHR fed a vitamin D-deficient diet may be due to a defect in the synthesis of 1,25(OH)2D3. The low level of 1,25(OH)2D3 is associated with renal wasting of calcium and hypocalcemia in SHR.
Administration of pharmacological amounts of 25(s),26-dihydroxyvitamin D3 reduces serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 levels in rats.	Pharmacological amounts of 25(s),26-dihydroxyvitamin D3 were administered to normal, vitamin D-replete rats in order to assess its pharmacological activity. Treatment with 25(s),26-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (20 micrograms/day for 1 week) caused a marked and significant fall in the circulating concentration of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D (16 +/- 5 SEM vs. 28 +/- 4 pg/ml, P = 0.02). This reduction of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D was dependent on the dose of 25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D3 administered since a 5 micrograms/day dosing regimen failed to alter serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels. Despite the 25-66% reduction in circulating 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D concentration produced by 25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D3 therapy, serum calcium and intestinal calcium absorption remained normal. These results suggested that 25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D has a weak agonist action or that a further metabolite that stimulates bone calcium resorption and/or intestinal calcium absorption is formed. Rats predosed with 25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (20 micrograms/day) for 4 days and subsequently dosed with both 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (0.15 micrograms/day) and 25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D3 for an additional 3 days, demonstrated serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D levels significantly higher than that found for control rats (47 +/- 5 vs. 25 +/- 4 pg/ml, P less than 0.001) but significantly reduced from the value observed for rats receiving only 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (47 +/- 5 vs. 187 +/- 38 pg/ml, P less than 0.001). These results suggest that 25,26-dihydroxyvitamin D3 has a previously unrecognized action in affecting the metabolism of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3.
Muscle strength in healthy white and Asian subjects: the relationship of quadriceps maximum voluntary contraction to age, sex, body build and vitamin D.	1. The maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVC) of the dominant quadriceps muscle was measured in 136 healthy White and 172 healthy Hindu Asian subjects resident in London, using a specially designed chair equipped with a force measuring load cell. 2. Males were stronger than females, and for both sexes MVC declined with age. From age 20 to 60 the annual decline in MVC ranged from 0.56% in White males to 1.5% in female Asians. 3. White subjects were stronger than Asian subjects even after correcting for the effect of age, height, weight and sex in a multi-factorial analysis. 4. Only in males did MVC correlate with height and weight. Asian women were more obese than any other group, and showed an increase in body mass index with age. 5. Twenty-two per cent of Asian subjects had marked vitamin D deficiency (plasma 25-hydroxycholecalciferol less than 10 nmol/1). There was no correlation between MVC, and plasma 25-hydroxycholecalciferol.
Bone and mineral metabolism and chronic alcohol abuse.	Studies of bone and mineral metabolism were made in 22 patients with chronic alcohol abuse and varying degrees of liver damage. None of the patients had clinical evidence of metabolic bone disease, but quantitative bone histology showed that six had osteoporosis, three osteomalacia, and two osteoporosis and osteomalacia combined. Trabecular bone volume (TBV) tended to be reduced in relation to age, and there was histological evidence of reduced bone formation particularly among the patients with osteoporosis. Multivariate analysis of the relevant variables showed that the major determinants of age-adjusted trabecular bone volume were the serum concentration of albumin and the dietary calcium. The presence of osteoporosis was related to the state of liver function and the type of alcohol habitually consumed, and was a particular feature of patients with severe liver disease and those who only drank spirits. Six patients (five with osteoporosis) had biochemical evidence of hyperparathyroidism, but none showed histological evidence of increased bone resorption or of osteitis fibrosa. In four patients the development of hyperparathyroidism was probably related to underlying magnesium deficiency. Serum calcidiol tended to be reduced and was directly related to the state of liver function; four patients had reduced or low normal serum concentrations of calcitriol. In only three patients could the development of osteomalacia be related to vitamin D deficiency; in two patients the cause of the osteomalacia was obscure. Significant changes in bone structure and mass appear to be common among heavy drinkers even in the absence of clinical metabolic bone disease. These skeletal abnormalities are likely to be relevant to the increased fracture risk associated with heavy drinking.
The localization of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol in bone cell nuclei of rachitic chicks.	1. A simple technique has been developed to obtain subcellular fractions of chick bone. The method yielded 60-70% of total DNA in the nuclear debris fraction and 80-90% of total (14)C recovered in bone after a dose of radioactive vitamin D. 2. After a dose of [4-(14)C,1,2-(3)H(2)]cholecalciferol (0.5mug) was given to vitamin D-deficient chicks, the time-course of total (14)C radioactivity in the epiphysis, metaphysis and diaphysis of proximal tibiae was measured. The maximum concentrations were reached at 6h, corresponding to a similar peak of radioactivity in blood, decreasing until 24h and indicating the dependence on the circulating (14)C and on the blood supply of the three bone components. 3. The (14)C radioactivity of cholecalciferol and 25-hydroxycholecalciferol (expressed per mg of DNA) followed the pattern of incorporation of total (14)C radioactivity in all three bone components. The more polar metabolite fraction reached a peak of radioactivity at 6-9h and maintained its concentration over the 24h period studied in all anatomical bone components. 4. After a dose of [4-(14)C,1-(3)H]cholecalciferol (0.5mug) was given to vitamin D-deficient chicks, the subcellular distribution was studied. At 24h after dosing, the nuclear fraction contained 27% and the supernatant fraction had 67% of total (14)C recovered in the bone filtrate. When the (14)C in the residual bone fragments was included, the nuclear fraction contained up to 35% of the total radioactivity in the bone. 5. The subcellular distribution pattern of individual vitamin D metabolites indicated that the purified nuclear fraction concentrated the polar metabolite, which lost (3)H at C-1, so that 77% of the radioactivity could be accounted for by 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol. The supernatant fraction contained smaller amounts of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol (9%), with 66% of 25-hydroxycholecalciferol forming the major metabolite, corresponding to its concentration found in blood at 24h. 6. The preferential accumulation of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol in the nuclear fraction and the overall pattern of other metabolites, found previously in intestinal tissue, suggests a similar mechanism of action in bone to that postulated for the intestinal cell in calcium translocation.
Prevalence of pathologic vitamin D and parathyroid hormone levels in geriatric patients]	Diseases of the bone have always to be considered in geriatric patients, especially because of the therapeutic consequences in osteomalacia (3/100) and hyperparathyreodism (1/100). Therefore calcium, phosphate and alkaline phosphatase should be measured in geriatric patients. The high prevalence of pathologic vitamin D measurements (78/100) in spring points to the importance of outdoor activities.
Calcium and phosphate metabolism in tumoral calcinosis.	We have recently seen a patient with tumoral calcinosis, a syndrome comprising hyperphosphatemia, normocalcemia, normal glomerular filtration rate (GFR), and extensive periarticular calcific masses. Parathyroid hormone (PTH) deficiency or target organ resistance was ruled out by demonstration of normal serum PTH and urinary 3'5'cyclic AMP excretion and normal response to exogenous PTH and to endogenous stimulation by ethylenediaminetetraacetate. An intrinsic proximal tubular defect allowing enhanced renal PO4 reabsorption was probably present because there was no phosphaturic response to acetazolamine and renal PO4 threshold remained abnormally elevated even after PTH infusion. We then studied the mechanism by which serum calcium level is maintained in the normal range despite hyperphosphatemia and absence of secondary hyperparathyroidism. Normal 1,25-(OH)2 vitamin D was found, suggesting normal gastrointestinal calcium absorption. This, combined with markedly reduced urinary calcium excretion, perhaps a direct effect of hyperphosphatemia, may maintain calcium balance and prevent secondary hyperparathyroidism. A rise in urinary cyclic AMP excretion after furosemide-induced calciuria supports this hypothesis.
Inadequate status and impaired metabolism of vitamin D in the elderly.	The mean serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D and of 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D were significantly lower (P less than 0.01) in 82 elderly people than in 30 young control subjects. The levels in 30 elderly people confined to their rooms were 8.0 +/- 0.7 (SE) and 0.54 +/- 0.04 ng/ml, respectively; in 31 active old-age-home residents who spent part of their time outdoors, they were 11.4 +/- 0.8 and 0.82 +/- 0.08 ng/ml, respectively; and in 21 elderly farm workers, 14.6 +/- 1.4 and 0.98 +/- 0.10 ng/ml, respectively. In the young control subjects, the levels were 21.5 +/- 1.4 and 1.91 +/- 0.12 ng/ml, respectively. In addition, an intestinal absorption test with a standard oral dose of 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 showed that the serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 responses at 4 and 6 h were considerably depressed in 10 of the 20 elderly subjects in whom the test was performed.
Vitamins, lipids and lipoproteins in a healthy elderly population.	Vitamin status may be related to serum lipid-lipoprotein levels. We tested this hypothesis in a group of 270 healthy elderly men and women over 60 years of age. Vitamin status was determined from dietary intakes and biochemical analysis of plasma. Fasting lipid profile included triglycerides, total cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C), and high-density lipoprotein-cholesterol (HDL-C). Correlations have been adjusted by partial correlation for age, physical activity, body mass index, and alcohol consumption. Neither vitamin E intake nor ascorbic acid intake nor ascorbic acid plasma levels correlated with any lipids measured. HDL-C levels did not correlate with any vitamin parameters. In men, vitamin A blood levels correlated with LDL-C, triglyceride, and total cholesterol levels. In women, total cholesterol levels correlated inversely with thiamine and riboflavin blood status and with dietary intake of vitamins B6, D, and niacin. LDL-C plasma values were also inversely correlated with both intake and plasma vitamin D levels and intakes of riboflavin and vitamin B12 in women.
Deficiency rickets in older children. Apropos of 2 cases]	Typical rickets were observed in a 13 year old Turkish girl and in a 14 year old Moroccan girl. Hypocalcaemia was present in one case. Symptoms have easily regressed with vitamin D2. Seric 25 OH D3 was very low; seric 1-25 OH D3 was normal before treatment and increased very much with vitamin D. In the second case vitamin D deficiency was familial. Study of 15 immigrant children living in or near Saint-Etienne has shown low seric concentrations of 25 OH D3 in 9 (8 undetectable).
Effect of chronic metabolic acidosis on vitamin D metabolism in humans.	Bone disease may occur in disorders associated with chronic metabolic acidosis. This has been attributed, in part, to reduced production of 1,25(OH)2D3. Although metabolic acidosis in the vitamin D deficient animal has been associated with a reduction in the conversion of radiolabeled 25(OH)D3 to 1,25(OH)2D3, studies in D-replete humans have revealed no effect of acidosis on 1,25(OH)2D3 metabolism. To examine this issue further, we measured serum 25(OH)D, 1,25(OH)2D, and 24,25(OH)2D levels in six healthy subjects before and after 9 days of metabolic acidosis induced by the ingestion of ammonium chloride. In four subjects, we measured the increment in serum levels of 1,25(OH)2D in response to the infusion of parathyroid extract both during control and acidosis. Serum levels of 1,25(OH)2D, 13.6 +/- 1.3 and 14.3 +/- 0.9 pg/ml, in control and acidosis, respectively, were not different. The serum 1,25(OH)2D levels in control and acidosis rose to a similar degree with the infusion of PTE. These data provide strong evidence that metabolic acidosis does not have a substantial impact on the synthesis of 1,25(OH)2D3 metabolism in vitamin D-replete humans.
Vitamin A, D and E status in a Finnish population--a multivitamin study.	The serum concentrations of the three fat-soluble vitamins A, D and E, and the serum transport proteins for the first of these, were measured during the winter and summer in a healthy adult Finnish population. No statistically significant differences were found in the levels of vitamins A and E between the seasons. However, a marked seasonal variation was found in the levels of vitamin D metabolites, the serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D being higher in summer, and that of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D somewhat higher in winter, whereas the concentration of vitamin D-binding globulin remained constant throughout. The serum concentrations of vitamins A and E showed a marked interrelationship with a significant correlation (r = 0.512, P less than 0.001, n = 80). No outright deficiencies of the vitamins were found in this study, but the serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D were rather low in winter. Supplementation with a moderate dose of vitamins A and E over a 2-month winter period did not affect the serum concentrations of these vitamins, whereas 250-500 i.u. of vitamin D daily markedly elevated the low 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations.
Serum calcium regulating hormones in the perinatal period.	To clarify perinatal vitamin D metabolism, we measured 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD), 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [24,25(OH)2D], 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25(OH)2D], calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P), parathyroid hormone (PTH), and human calcitonin (CT) in paired maternal, cord, and infant serum. Cord serum 25OHD was significantly lower than the maternal level, and cord serum 24,25(OH)2D was also significantly below the maternal concentrations. Maternal, cord, and infant serum 1,25(OH)2D, on the other hand, was significantly higher than the normal adult level. The serum PTH was low, but the CT concentration was high in the cord. Cord serum Ca and P levels were significantly higher than maternal. The reason for the elevated circulating 1,25(OH)2D level in the perinatal period is uncertain, and we speculate that the possible factors are gonadal steroids, placental lactogen, prolactin, and CT. In addition, serum 24,25(OH)2D and 1,25(OH)2D concentrations are under some control by the fetus.
Synthesis of serum and cytosol vitamin D-binding proteins by rat liver and kidney.	The synthesis of vitamin D-binding proteins in rat was examined using liver and kidney slices, isolated hepatocytes, and isolated renal tubules. Rat liver synthesized both serum vitamin D-binding protein (DBP) and a tissue DBP-binding component and secreted serum DBP. Rat kidney also synthesized a tissue DBP-binding component and cytosol vitamin D-binding protein (CDBP) which was immunologically related to serum DBP, but secretion of renal CDBP was not observed. Renal CDBP had a higher molecular weight (approximately 65,000) than that of serum DBP (54,000) and was heat-labile, while serum DBP was heat-stable (60 degrees C, 60 min). Renal CDBP was considered to exist in cytosol, forming a complex with a tissue DBP-binding component. These results indicate that liver is a site of synthesis of serum DBP and that CDBP, which is immunologically related to but physicochemically different from serum DBP, is synthesized in situ in kidney.
Effects off short term glucocorticoid administration on intestinal calcium absorption and circulating vitamin D metabolite concentrations in man.	These studies were performed to examine the hypothesis that glucocorticoids suppress intestinal calcium absorption in man by decreasing the circulating concentrations of biologically active vitamin D metabolites. Twelve normal adults were equilibrated for 2 weeks on a 600-mg calcium diet. After equilibration, subjects were studied for 12 days before and 14 days during the administration of prednisone (20 mg/day). After 14 days of prednisone administration, intestinal 47Ca absorption had decreased by 31% from initial values (P < 0.001). However, mean serum concentrations of 25-hydroxyvitamin D and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin D did not change significantly from initial values of 28.1 +/- 1.8 and 2.09 +/- 0.17 pg/ml, respectively, and the serum 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D concentration was slightly increased (baseline, 34.8 +/- 3.3; day 14, 54.0 +/- 7.1 pg/ml; P < 0.02). The fasting serum immunoreactive parathyroid hormone concentration did not change. These results demonstrate that reduced intestinal calcium absorption after glucocorticoid administration cannot be attributed to decreasing circulating concentrations of the major known vitamin D metabolites.
Vitamin D metabolites and calcium metabolism in patients with nephrotic syndrome and normal renal function.	Patients with nephrotic syndrome (NS) lose 25-hydroxyvitamin D3 (25OHD3) in the urine and have low blood levels of this metabolite. This abnormality may be responsible for the hypocalcemia, i.e. low ionized calcium. The mechanism of the hypocalcemia is not evident. It is possible that the low value of 25OHD results in low blood levels of other vitamin D metabolites, such as 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D [1,25-(OH)2D] and 24,25-(OH)2D3; a deficiency of these compounds may cause defective intestinal absorption of calcium (alpha) and resistance to the calcemic action of parathyroid hormone (PTH), resulting in hypocalcemia. Studies were performed in 12 patients with NS and normal renal function to evaluate these questions. Blood levels of 25OHD, 1,25-(OH)2D, and 24,25-(OH)2D were all significantly (P < 0.01) lower in NS (4.0 +/- 0.8 ng/ml, 7.0 +/- 2.3 pg/ml, 1.8 +/- 0.2 ng/ml, respectively) compared to normal subjects (37.0 +/- 1.5 ng/ml, 37.0 +/- 1.2 pg/ml, and 3.4 +/- 0.2 ng/ml). Both alpha (0.21 +/- 0.2 vs. 0.27 +/- 0.1; P < 0.05) and the calcemic response to PTH (0.50 +/- 0.1 vs. 1.35 +/- 0.16 mg/dl; P < 0.01) in NS subjects were significantly lower than normal. The data indicate that 1) a deficient state of all of these vitamin D metabolites exists in patients with NS and normal renal function, 2) this abnormality underlies the defect in alpha and the resistance to the calcemic response to PTH, and all participate in the genesis of the hypocalcemia, 3) secondary hyperparathyroidism develops, and 4) both vitamin D deficiency and elevated blood levels of PTH are responsible for the bone lesions in these patients.
Corticosteroid-induced osteopenia and vitamin D metabolism. Effect of vitamin D2, calcium phosphate and sodium fluoride administration.	Thirty-one patients scheduled for long-term (24 weeks) treatment with prednisone in comparatively high doses were randomly allocated to two further treatment groups. Group A received prednisone plus 'triple-treatment' (vitamin D2 45000 iu twice weekly, sodium fluoride 50 mg and calcium phosphate 4.5 g daily), group B received only prednisone. The study was undertaken in order to evaluate the effect of prednisone- and triple-treatment upon bone mineral content (BMC) and vitamin D metabolism. The groups were comparable with regard to age, sex and prednisone dose. BMC fell rapidly and similarly in both groups, demonstrating that the triple-treatment has no preventive effect on corticosteroid induced osteopenia. Serum concentrations of 25OHD2, 25OHD3 and 1,25(OH)2D were unchanged in group B (without triple-treatment), whereas in group A 25OHD2 increased enormously, 25OHD3 was suppressed possibly by substrate competition for hydroxylation in the liver and 1,25(OH)2D was halved. The suppression of 1,25(OH)2D may be an effect of raised 25OHD2 alone, or in combination with corticosteroid excess.
Hypercalcemia associated with adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL).	Hypercalcemia is a frequent manifestation of human T-cell lymphotrophic virus type I (HTLV-I)-associated adult T-cell leukemia/lymphoma (ATL). Human T-cell lymphotrophic virus type I infection is endemic in the Caribbean, Japan, Melanesia, and Africa. This article presents two cases of ATL to increase awareness of the disease by primary care physicians. The management of hypercalcemia is discussed.
Rickets in black children beyond infancy in Natal.	To determine the clinical spectrum of rickets among black children admitted to King Edward VIII Hospital, Durban.
Comparison of the suppressive effect of two doses (500 mg vs 1500 mg) of oral calcium on parathyroid hormone secretion and on urinary cyclic AMP.	The respective effects of the ingestion of two different doses of calcium (500 and 1500 mg) on serum ionized calcium, intact parathyroid hormone (PTH 1-84), and the urinary excretion of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cyclic AMP) were evaluated in 15 young male adults. Ionized serum calcium and PTH 1-84 were measured before and 1 hour, 2 hours and 3 hours (P1, P2, and P3) after the oral intake of calcium. Cyclic AMP was measured in 2-hour urine samples collected before and during 4 hours after the ingestion of calcium. Similar increments in serum ionized calcium (delta Ca2+) were observed except at P3 where the delta Ca2+ was significantly (P < 0.02) higher after 1500 mg (0.088 mmol/liter) than after 500 mg of (0.062 mmol/liter). In the same way, the comparison of the PTH 1-84 concentrations showed no statistical difference except at P3 (P < 0.002). When expressed as a percentage of P0, the P1 and P2 PTH 1-84 values were more suppressed after 1500 mg than after 500 mg of calcium (P1: -69% vs -59%; P < 0.02; P2: -66% vs -50%; P < 0.02). However, the simultaneous cyclic AMP responses (-24% vs -19%) were not significantly different. The results show that the respective maximal effects on PTH secretion and on urinary cyclic AMP of two very different oral doses of calcium are only slightly different.
Postoperative studies on parathyroid hormone secretion in patients operated on for primary hyperparathyroidism.	The secretion of intact parathyroid hormone (PTH) was investigated in 11 patients operated on for parathyroid adenoma at 1 year after surgery and compared with that of seven healthy individuals and five patients operated on because of clinical and biochemical signs of primary hyperparathyroidism with equivocal diagnosis after surgery. The investigation was performed by infusing Na2EDTA and CaCl2 at constant rates. No significant difference was found in the suppressibility of PTH secretion by calcium. The set point (the calcium concentration required for half-maximal inhibition of PTH secretion) was slightly lower in patients (1.20 +/- 0.02 mmol/l) compared with healthy subjects (1.23 +/- 0.03 mmol/l; P < 0.05). During the hypocalcemic EDTA infusion, the secretion of PTH was higher in controls compared with patients (P < 0.01). By comparing the data from the infusion tests in patients operated on for parathyroid adenomas with the data obtained from the patients with equivocal diagnosis after parathyroid surgery, a good probability for the diagnosis could be obtained.
Vitamin D status of children and adolescents of African and Asian diplomats in Germany]	Vitamin D-deficiency has been observed among immigrant children with rickets and osteomalacia in Western Europe. So vitamin D-status in 34 children and juveniles (17 girls, 17 boys) of African and Asian diplomats staying in West Germany only for a certain time is examined. During summer 1989 plasma levels of alkaline phosphatase, calcium, phosphate, 25-hydroxy-cholecalciferol and 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol is measured. According to their native country the subjects are divided into three groups: I North Africa (n = 7), II Central Africa (n = 18), III Asia (n = 9). No clinical signs of rickets or osteomalacia are detected. All plasma levels of calcium and phosphate are in the normal range so as most of the values of the alkaline phosphatase. In Group I 85.7% (n = 6), group II 77.8% (n = 14) and group III 44.4% (n = 4) have decreased values of 25-OHD whereas most strikingly elevated amounts of 1,25-OH2D are measured in 57.1% (n = 4) of the subjects in group I, 66.7% (n = 12) in group II and 11.1% (n = 1) in group III. Normal values for both 25-OHD and 1,25-OH2D are rare: one case (11.1%) in group I, no case in group II, four cases (44.4%) in group III. The influence of the time staying in West Germany on vitamin D-status, a possible dietary lack due to inadequate nutrition, the role of skin pigmentation and a potential genetic abnormality of vitamin D-metabolism is discussed to explain the results.
Remission of hypercalciuria in patients with tuberculosis after treatment.	The hypercalciuria evolution and other bone metabolism parameters were evaluated in patients with tuberculosis after treatment. Twenty-two patients with tuberculosis and 54 normal subjects were studied; they consumed an average diet (calcium intake 1000 mg/day). Ten of these patients and nine normal subjects were also studied after a low calcium diet (400 mg/calcium/day) and after a load of oral calcium of 1000 mg (calcium absorption test). The study with an average diet was performed after 1 week (basal) and 3, 6, and 12 months after the antituberculosis treatment was started; the calcium absorption test was carried out 2 weeks, 3 and 12 months after the treatment was started. On an average diet, patients with tuberculosis presented, at baseline state, lower calcidiol levels than normal controls. Serum calcitriol levels at baseline were higher than at 6 and 12 months. Serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels in patients with tuberculosis were lower than in normal controls at baseline, but these levels were similar to controls at 3, 6, and 12 months after treatment. During the calcium absorption test and under basal conditions, patients with tuberculosis showed lower serum PTH and calcidiol levels in all the dietetic situations than in normal controls. However, serum calcitriol levels were higher than in controls after the restrictive diet. After 3 months of treatment, urinary calcium excretion was normal in patients with tuberculosis during the average and low diets, but higher than in control group after calcium load. After 12 months of treatment, all the biochemical parameters of the patients with tuberculosis were similar to the control group under all the dietetic situations. These data indicate that antituberculous treatment, although it may contribute to the production of some alteration in the calcium and vitamin D metabolism, basically favors the correction of disturbances associated with tuberculosis.
Seasonal variation in vitamin D metabolites in southern elephant seal (Mirounga leonina) females at south Georgia.	Southern elephant seals spend two periods on land each year, during breeding and moult, exposed to intensive UV radiation. The time between periods on land are spent at sea, with little exposure to the sun. A study of serum 25-OH-D3 and 1,25(OH)2-D3 on southern elephant seals was carried out at South Georgia. Samples were collected on four different occasions: early and late breeding, and early and late moult. The levels of 25-OH-D3 increased when seals were on land, and decreased when at sea. Two annual peaks of 25-OH-D3 were found, both of which immediately followed periods of intensive exposure of UV radiation. 1,25(OH)2-D3 levels showed a seasonal variation, but no significant changes while being on land were detected. The diving behaviour at sea for southern elephant seals and no detectable change in 25-OH-D3 indicates that the seals feed on prey containing vitamin D.
Nutritional rickets in suburbia.	Vitamin D deficiency continues to be a problem in pediatrics. This report presents four children, one Caucasian male and three African-American females aged 4 to 24 months who were treated for vitamin D deficiency rickets.
