Vitamin A and neonatal anthropometry.	Low levels of vitamin A have a major impact on growth, development, and immunity. The aim of this study was to determine the relationship between cord concentrations of vitamin A and neonatal anthropometry in 711 babies born at term in Brazil. Gestational age of the babies was evaluated by the Capurro method. Vitamin A was measured by high performance liquid chromatography. Concentrations of vitamin A in cord blood correlated significantly (p < 0.001) with birthweight (r = 0.24), length (r = 0.20), chest circumference (r = 0.24), mid-upper arm circumference (r = 0.23), triceps skinfold thickness (r = 0.26), and head circumference (r = 0.12) of the babies. The anthropometric measurements of the babies were sorted by the vitamin A concentrations (means and standard deviations) and divided into quartiles. Differences between the quartiles were tested by analysis of variance. Babies in the bottom length, head circumference and triceps skinfold thickness quartiles had lower mean vitamin A concentrations than those of quartiles two, three and four. Babies in the bottom birthweight, chest and mid-upper arm circumferences quartiles had lower mean vitamin A concentrations than those of quartiles three and four (p < 0.003). These data shows that smaller/shorter babies had lower concentrations of vitamin A than heavier/longer babies, probably reflecting the important role of this micronutrient on growth.
Prevalence of iron, vitamin A, and iodine deficiencies amongst adolescent pregnant mothers.	The present study was undertaken to assess the prevalence of iron, vitamin A and iodine deficiencies amongst rural Adolescent Pregnant Mothers (APM).
Vitamin A and beta-carotene levels during pregnancy in Gaziantep, Turkey.	Vitamin A levels during pregnancy have important influences on the health of pregnant women and the growing fetus. Therefore, plasma vitamin A and beta-carotene concentrations during pregnancy in Turkish women living in Gaziantep city were investigated in a prevalence study. Optimum sample size was determined as 252 for vitamin A deficiency and vitamin A and beta-carotene levels were examined in 427 pregnant women aged 14-44 years. Vitamin A and beta-carotene concentrations were measured spectrophotometrically by Neeld Pearson method. Vitamin A and beta-carotene concentrations in pregnant women were found as 1.14 +/- 0.44 micromol/L, and 1.80 +/- 0.66 micromol/L, respectively. Plasma vitamin A concentrations were found in low levels (<1.05 micromol/L) in 45.5% of pregnant women. Vitamin A deficiency (<0.7 micromol/L) was determined in 16.9% of pregnant women. A mild negative correlation was obtained between the vitamin A concentration and pregnancy period. Vitamin A levels of pregnant women were decreased significantly in the third trimester (p<0.05). The findings of present study suggest that vitamin A levels of pregnant women were poor in the region. Therefore, the intake of vitamin A with foods should be improved. Supplementation of vitamin A might benefit at improving maternal and child health especially in high-risk groups especially in developing countries. Monitoring vitamin A levels in pregnant women is very important for also determining low and high levels.
Dietary intake of vitamin A in African pre-school children in Umlazi, South Africa.	Vitamin A deficiency has been shown to have an impact on morbidity and mortality and therefore prevalence rates are important for public health policy. We report the use of a 7-day recall, dietary questionnaire, which was validated and administered to 203 randomly selected urban African pre-school children in Umlazi, South Africa. Common vitamin A containing foods eaten were leafy green vegetables, pumpkin, sweet potato, mangoes and chicken liver. Although the mean daily intake of vitamin A was adequate, 19 children had intakes below the recommended dietary allowance (RDA). Thirteen of these children had eaten liver in the previous week, and as such were probably not at risk. It is therefore estimated that only 6 of the children (3%) were at risk for developing vitamin A deficiency.
Childhood illnesses and malnutrition in under five children in drought affected desert area of western Rajasthan, India.	The study was undertaken to asses the impact of drought on childhood illnesses and nutrition in under five children of rural population using three stage sampling design. The study has been carried out in 24 villages belonging to 6 tehsils of Jodhpur district which was a drought affected desert district of Western Rajasthan in 2003. A total of 914 under five children (0-5 years) could be examined for their childhood illnesses, malnutrition, dietary intake and clinical signs of nutritional deficiency. Childhood illnesses observed at the time of drought were respiratory (7.5 %), gastroentrological (7.5%), and 5.6% fever (viral, malaria and jaundice), higher in males than females. Children suffered from recent and long term malnutrition were 39% and 26% respectively as per National Centre for Health Statistics (NCHS) standards. The extent of malnutrition was significantly higher in females than in males (p<0.01). Vitamin A & B complex deficiencies were 0.7% and 3/% respectively. The protein energy malnutrition (PEM) was observed in 44.4%. Overall mean calorie and protein intake deficit was observed to be very high (76.0 & 54.0 %). The comparison of present drought results with earlier studies in normal and drought conditions showed higher prevalence of PEM and deficiencies of calories & proteins in their diet. Respiratory, gastroentrological and fever were main childhood illnesses observed and were higher in males at the time of drought. PEM, vitamin A & B- complex deficiencies, anemia along with deficit in calories and proteins in their diet was observed higher in present study as compared to non desert areas, which may be due to the harsh environmental conditions in desert areas and paucity in the consumption of daily food intake. Due to inadequate consumption of daily food, the children were suffering from PEM resulting in several childhood illnesses. Effective measures making availability of adequate calories and proteins to all age groups especially to under five children through the ongoing nutrition programs needs to be ensured.
Optimal vitamin A and suboptimal vitamin D status are common in Iranian infants.	Investigation of serum concentrations of vitamins A and D in Iranian infants.
Evaluation of the impact of a food program on the micronutrient nutritional status of Argentinean lactating mothers.	This study was conducted to evaluate the impact of a food aid program (Plan Más Vida, PMV) on the micronutrient nutritional condition of lactating mothers 1 year after its implementation. The food program provided supplementary diets (wheat- and maize-fortified flour, rice or sugar, and fortified soup) to low-income families from the province of Buenos Aires, Argentina. A prospective, non-experimental study was carried out to evaluate the micronutrient nutritional status of lactating mothers (n = 178 at baseline and n = 151 after 1 year). Biochemical tests (hemoglobin, ferritin, zinc, vitamin A, and folic acid), anthropometric assessments (weight and height) and dietary surveys (24-h recall) were performed. We found no significant changes in anthropometric values 1 year after the intervention. The risk for vitamin A (retinol 20-30 μg/dl) and folate deficiency significantly decreased 1 year after PMV implementation (56.3 vs. 29.9 and 50.3 vs. 3.4 %, respectively; p < 0.001). Anemia was seen in 25.8 % of lactating mothers at baseline, without statistically significant differences 1 year after (p = 0.439). The nutritional data obtained after assessing the early impact of PMV actions may be useful to provincial health authorities to perform periodic evaluations in the future.
Impact of massive doses of vitamin A on nutritional blindness in Bangladesh.	Impact of 6-monthly massive dosings of preschool-age children with oral vitamin A (VAC: 200,000 IU of oil soluble retinyl palmitate with 40 IU vitamin E) was evaluated in Bangladesh. In 100 sites, 11,889 households were visited and eyes of 22,335 children aged 3-71 mo were examined. About half the rural target population and less than 20% urban slum population were being reached. Risk of night blindness was halved for children reportedly given VAC, although 2.5% of the reportedly protected population were still night blind. There was no significant reduction in prevalence of Bitot's spot. Risk of corneal ulcers or keratomalacia (X3A/B) was 2.7 times higher in children not given VAC. Based on reported coverage, efficacy of protection against potentially blinding corneal lesions was 63%. For maximum impact on eye lesions, massive dosing with vitamin A at ideally less than 6-monthly intervals needs to be combined with other nutrition and health interventions.
Vitamin status of 11- to 17-year-old healthy adolescents. Data from a longitudinal study]	In order to find out whether any age- or sex-related changes in vitamin nutrition or if any vitamin deficiencies can be detected in apparently healthy school children, blood vitamins (A, B1, B2, B6, C, and E) were determined in 111 children (54 boys and 57 girls), who took part in a longitudinal nutritional program. Most of the adolescents were examined yearly 5 times every year and afterwards two years later; at the begin of the study their age was 11 years, at the end 17 years. The results of vitamin determinations show for the most parameters age dependent changes, levels for Vitamin A, B1, and B2 becoming higher with increasing age, for Vitamin C in contrast markedly unfavorable. Using the criteria for risk for deficiency from adults a comparatively high percentage of adolescents must be considered to be at risk for deficiency (up to 30% for Vitamin B6). As this study shows partly statistically significant correlations between growth and some vitamin levels (e.g., for Vitamin A and E), age and sex related criteria for the assessment of vitamin status in adolescents should be made available. The results in general show that also in apparently healthy school-children subclinical biochemical vitamin deficiencies can be detected. This fact however, should be taken in consideration in planing and providing guidelines for an optimal nutritional program in adolescence.
Perinatal vitamin A (retinol) status of northern Canadian mothers and their infants.	Vitamin A (retinol) status was determined in two groups living in the northern part of Canada: native (Indian and Inuit) and non-native (Caucasian). The dietary intake of vitamin A and its plasma concentration were measured prenatally, at delivery and postnatally in mothers. Plasma concentrations were also measured at birth and postnatally in their infants. The mean vitamin A intake of native mothers was significantly lower than that of non-native mothers, 661 +/- 485 versus 1,377 +/- 1,418 retinol equivalents (p < 0.00005), with a higher risk of deficiency without supplementation, 35% versus 8%. Plasma retinol concentrations, although not in the deficient range, were significantly lower in native than non-native mothers prenatally and postnatally. Infant mean plasma retinol concentrations at birth averaged only 52% of those of their mothers and were significantly lower among native than non-native infants although no clinical evidence of vitamin A deficiency was noted. We speculate that vitamin A supplementation in native Northern Canadian mothers during pregnancy and in their neonates during infancy may have a role to play in the prevention of vitamin A deficiency. We also postulate that plasma retinol concentrations of 50-60% of maternal levels and between 0.7 and 2.5 mumol/l represent a 'normal' range for newborn infants.
A community based study of vitamin A and vitamin E status of adolescent girls living in the Shire Valley, Southern Malawi.	To assess vitamin A and E status and anaemia in non-pregnant Malawian adolescent girls.
