Intracranial calcification and tumoural calcinosis during vitamin D therapy.	Extraskeletal calcifications are frequently observed in patients with chronic renal failure. However, clinically, they usually remain silent. In this report, we describe two patients with massive extraskeletal calcifications that caused significant morbidity. The first patient had tumoural calcification located on the shoulder and the second patient had severe neurological symptoms caused by intracranial calcifications. High calcium phosphorus product and severe secondary hyperparathyroidism were present in both patients. Furthermore, they both received inappropriately high doses of active vitamin D, even though they failed to respond to this therapy. We suggest to monitor closely the calcium, phosphorus and parathyroid hormone levels during calcitriol therapy and to perform parathyroidectomy, without delay, in patients who were resistant to calcitriol.
Osteoporosis and the intake of meat and fish]	Usual intake of meat and fish may not be a risk factor or a protective factor for osteoporosis. When the large proportion of protein intake depends on the animal meat, it is possible to give adverse effects on bone metabolism. Fish is an important source of vitamins A and D. Although the adequate intake of these vitamins is indispensable for healthy bone, excessive intake of vitamin A would be harmful to the skeletal system.
Vitamin D therapy in psoriasis.	The use of vitamin D3 in the treatment of psoriasis is discussed with emphasis on positive and negative results of many clinical trials. Investigations indicate the treatment with topical vitamin D3 provides consistently more rapid clinical improvement than its oral counterpart, with no reported adverse effects. Studies have shown that 68 of 83 patients exhibited significant improvement of their psoriatic lesions with the topical application of vitamin D3 analogs, including 1,24-dihydroxycholecalciferol, calcitriol, and MC 903. Clinical trials involving 35 patients treated with oral vitamin D3 analogs resulted in moderate improvement in 24 of the patients. Adverse effects can be minimized by bedtime dosing and possibly the use of new noncalciotropic analogs. Vitamin D3 analogs appear to provide one more promising treatment option for psoriasis.
Vitamin D in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.	Vitamin D was used to treat tuberculosis in the pre-antibiotic era. New insights into the immunomodulatory properties of 1alpha,25-dihydroxy-vitamin D have rekindled interest in vitamin D as an adjunct to antituberculous therapy. We describe the historical use of vitamin D in tuberculosis treatment; discuss the mechanisms by which it may modulate host response to infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis; and review three clinical trials and ten case series in which vitamin D has been used in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis.
Etiology of nephrocalcinosis in northern Indian children.	This retrospective survey examines the etiology of nephrocalcinosis (NC) in 40 patients (26 boys), over an 8-year period. The median age at onset of symptoms and presentation was 36 months and 72 months, respectively. Clinical features included marked failure to thrive (82.5%), polyuria (60%) and bony deformities (52.5%). The etiology of NC included distal renal tubular acidosis (RTA) in 50% patients and idiopathic hypercalciuria and hyperoxaluria in 7.5% each. Other causes were Bartter syndrome, primary hypomagnesemia with hypercalciuria, severe hypothyroidism and vitamin D excess. No cause for NC was found in 12.5% patients. Specific therapy, where possible, ameliorated the biochemical aberrations, although the extent of NC remained unchanged. At a median (range) follow up of 35 (14-240) months, glomerular filtration rate (GFR) had declined from 82.0 (42-114) ml/min per 1.73 m2 body surface area to 70.8 (21.3-126.5) ml/min per 1.73 m2 body surface area (P = 0.001). Our findings confirm that, even with limited diagnostic facilities, protocol-based evaluation permits determination of the etiology of NC in most patients.
Vitamin D from dietary intake and sunlight exposure and the risk of hormone-receptor-defined breast cancer.	Evidence has emerged for a role of vitamin D in the development of breast cancer, and there is some suggestion that its antiproliferative effect is greater in hormone-receptor-positive cells. Few epidemiologic studies have considered the association between vitamin D and hormone-receptor-defined breast cancer, and the results are conflicting. Considering 759 cases and 1,135 controls from a case-control study (Ontario, Canada, 2003-2005), the authors examined the association between vitamin D intake at specific ages and combined estrogen-receptor- (ER) and progesterone-receptor- (PR) defined breast cancer. While increased intake of vitamin D (from the sun and diet) was most consistently associated with a significantly reduced risk of ER+/PR+ tumors (e.g., odds ratio = 0.76, 95% confidence interval: 0.59, 0.97 for use of cod liver oil during adolescence), comparable nonsignificant associations were found for receptor-negative (ER-/PR-) (odds ratio = 0.74, 95% confidence interval: 0.53, 1.04) and mixed (ER+/PR-) (odds ratio = 0.79, 95% confidence interval: 0.51, 1.22) tumors. This study suggests that vitamin D is associated with a reduced risk of breast cancer regardless of ER/PR status of the tumor. Future studies with a larger number of receptor-negative and mixed tumors are required.
Severe hypercalcemia as a complication of intensive treatment for osteoporosis due to steroid therpay in 17-year-old girl with the nephrotic syndrome]	In the article, 17-year-old girl with iatrogenic severe hipercalcemia was presented. The girl was treated since the age of 12 years for steroid-sensitive minimal change disease. Due to steroid therapy osteoporosis developed and intensive treatment with active form of vitamin D and high doses of calcium was started. She was admitted to our clinic in severe general state with abdominal pain, vomiting, dehydration, muscle weakness, hypertension and mental confusion. Severe hipercalcemia with nephrocalcinosis was diagnosed. The history revealed that the girl had increased the doses of drugs intentionally. The authors emphasized the need for careful monitoring of prophylaxis and treatment for osteoporosis due to steroid therapy.
Does vitamin D protect against cardiovascular disease?	Because of its role in maintaining bone density, vitamin D has long been recognized as critical to the health of women, a group at disproportionate risk of osteoporosis. Recent data from epidemiologic and laboratory studies suggest that vitamin D may also protect against the development of cardiovascular and other chronic diseases. Because three quarters of US women (and men) have suboptimal vitamin D status, many experts advocate increasing daily recommended intakes from 200-600 IU to at least 1,000 IU, which may indeed be a prudent strategy. However, data from large randomized clinical trials testing sufficiently high doses of this vitamin for cardiovascular disease prevention--as well as to assess the overall balance of benefits and risks of such supplementation--are needed.
Calcium supplements with or without vitamin D and risk of cardiovascular events: reanalysis of the Women's Health Initiative limited access dataset and meta-analysis.	To investigate the effects of personal calcium supplement use on cardiovascular risk in the Women's Health Initiative Calcium/Vitamin D Supplementation Study (WHI CaD Study), using the WHI dataset, and to update the recent meta-analysis of calcium supplements and cardiovascular risk.
Efficacy of vitamin D in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis receiving methotrexate therapy.	To determine the efficacy of oral vitamin D [25(OH)D] in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) who are in methotrexate (MTX) therapy, patients receiving stable doses of MTX were randomized to one of two dose groups and received 12 weeks of double-blind vitamin D[25(OH)D] (50,000 IU per week) or matching placebo. The moderate and major efficacy measure was the proportion of patients with >0.6 and >1.2 improvement in RA based on the Disease Activity Score 28(DAS 28) at 12 weeks. Safety measures included adverse events and laboratory assessments. On a background of MTX, the percentage of patients with a moderate/major DAS 28 response at week 12 in the vitamin D groups (76/44%) was not significantly different from placebo (64.6/33.4%). Adverse events were typically mild and included small hepatic enzyme elevation; we did not have any undesirable events resulting in discontinuation of study drug. In patients with active RA receiving stable doses of MTX, vitamin D showed non-significant improvement in efficacy outcomes compared to placebo.
Epidemiology of childhood type 1 diabetes mellitus: lessons from Central and Eastern European data.	Over the past 15 years, the incidence of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) in Central and Eastern Europe has grown rapidly from an initially low rate. This growth cannot be attributed to genetic factors: it appears that changing environmental exposures are responsible, though no single environmental factor can be pinpointed. Since the end of the 1980s, the populations in this part of Europe have experienced rapid changes that are being investigated as possible etiologic environmental factors. These changes may not differ in nature from similar changes observed in Western Europe, yet they undoubtedly differ in the speed of the change. This is exemplified by recent changes in reproductive behavior that resulted in the extremely swift increase in average maternal age and varying patterns of crude natality observed in some populations. However, studies performed in Central and Eastern Europe have not revealed any unique patterns of associations with putative risk factors.
Vitamin D safety and requirements.	Vitamin D an ancient secosteroid is essential for mineral homeostasis, bone remodeling, immune modulation, and energy metabolism. Recently, debates have emerged about the daily vitamin D requirements for healthy and elderly adults, the safety and efficacy of long term supplementation and the role of vitamin D deficiency in several chronic disease states. Since this molecule acts as both a vitamin and a hormone, it should not be surprising that the effects of supplementation are multi-faceted and complex. Yet despite significant progress in the last decade, our understanding of vitamin D physiology and the clinical relevance of low circulating levels of this vitamin remains incomplete. The present review provides the reader with a comprehensive and up-to-date understanding of vitamin D requirements and safety. It also raises some provocative research questions.
Hypercalcemia, hypervitaminosis A and 3-epi-25-OH-D3 levels after consumption of an "over the counter" vitamin D remedy. a case report.	Intoxication from vitamin D supplements has been rarely reported but, nowadays, it occurs more frequently. 3-epi-25-OH-D(3) is highly prevalent in adults and it is considered of biological relevance. We report a case of vitamin D toxicity with hypercalcemia, acute renal failure and hypervitaminosis A after consuming an over-the-counter vitamin D supplement. Our data suggest that the contribution of 3-epi-25-OH-D(3) is not altered during vitamin D toxicity, although the serum levels of 25-OH-D(3) and 3-epi-25-OH-D(3) may display a different rate of clearance. The patient also displayed hypervitaminosis A unrelated to diet, possibly caused by renal failure related to the hypercalcemia induced by vitamin D toxicity. Because of the increasing use of over-the-counter vitamin D supplements and the potential iatrogenic hypercalcemia related to hypervitaminosis A, the present case highlights the importance of evaluating both the use of (non-) prescribed medication and vitamin A status during vitamin D toxicity.
Hospital admissions for vitamin D related conditions and subsequent immune-mediated disease: record-linkage studies.	Previous studies have suggested that there may be an association between vitamin D deficiency and the risk of developing immune-mediated diseases.
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D and PTHrP mediated malignant hypercalcemia in a seminoma.	Seminomas have been rarely associated with malignant hypercalcemia. The responsible mechanism of hypercalcemia in this setting has been described to be secondary to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D secretion. The relationship with PTHrP has not been determined or studied.The aim of this study is to describe and discuss the case and the pathophysiological mechanisms involved in a malignant hypercalcemia mediated by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin D and PTHrP cosecretion in a patient with seminoma.
Vitamin D metabolite-mediated hypercalcemia.	The endogenous overproduction of active vitamin D sterols plays a central causative role in the hypercalcemic/hypercalciuric state associated with granuloma-forming diseases, most notably sarcoidosis, as well as with some human lymphomas. In sarcoidosis, the offending metabolite is most likely 1,25-(OH)2-D and the synthetic source is the disease-activated macrophage. About 50% of hypercalcemic patients with lymphoma harbor frankly elevated or inappropriately high serum 1,25-(OH)2-D concentrations. The source of the hormone in patients with lymphoma is not yet known. The endogenous synthesis of 1,25-(OH)2-D in patients with active sarcoidosis and lymphoma is not subject to regulation by those factors that normally control the production of 1,25-(OH)2-D by the renal 25-OH-D-1-hydroxylase. Treatment and prevention of vitamin D metabolite-mediated hypercalcemia/hypercalciuria consist of pharmacologic inhibition of the abnormal 1-hydroxylation reaction and limitation of substrates for the reaction. The former is best accomplished by the administration of anti-inflammatory concentrations of glucocorticoids and the latter by controlling vitamin D intake and sunlight exposure in susceptible hosts.
Severe depressive illness in the context of hypervitaminosis D.	Hypercalcaemia, whether due to undiagnosed hyperparathyroidism or some other cause, can lead to clinical depression. The patient described here developed a severe depressive illness in the setting of hypervitaminosis D after 15 years of inappropriate therapy with calcium gluconate and strong calciferol. The importance of monitoring serum calcium levels in anyone on vitamin D therapy is stressed.
Osteoporosis: significance, risk factors and treatment.	Osteoporosis is a serious metabolic bone disorder that results in fractures of the wrist, hip and vertebrae. These fractures frequently occur with little or no trauma. Osteoporosis is seen more frequently in women than men. While the pathogenesis of osteoporosis is incompletely understood at this time, certain risk factors are emerging as important. Among the more important of these are family history, low calcium intake, early menopause and sedentary lifestyle. Other suggested risk factors include high intakes of protein, alcohol and caffeine; low body weight; exercise-induced amenorrhea; and cigarette smoking. No single therapy or combination of therapies for osteoporosis has proven to be uniformly successful. Indeed, once fractures occur, full restoration of the skeleton may not be possible. Currently, calcium, exercise and estrogen form the treatment for osteoporosis. When these conservative measures are ineffective or inadequate, treatment with fluoride, calcitonin, vitamin D or anabolic steroids may be attempted. Research to clearly identify and quantify risk factors and find an effective treatment for osteoporosis continues.
Vitamin D and myocardial infarction.	A detailed investigation was carried out into the consumption of vitamin D from different sources in patients who had suffered from myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, and degenerative joint diseases. Randomly selected controls of the same ages and sex were drawn from the Central Bureau of Statistics. The consumption was significantly higher in infarction patients. A daily intake of 30 mug may be the critical level. Student's t test for trend showed increasing probability of myocardial infarction with increasing intake of vitamin D, and more infarction patients than controls had a history of kidney stone. Long-term high consumption of vitamin D may be a precipitating cause of myocardial infarction.
Drug treatment of osteoporosis (in the woman)]	In women, osteoporosis with fractures can happen between 50 years, the age of the menopause, and 80 years. Over these three decades, the condition of bone metabolism is not the same. The years after menopause present with high bone turnover. During these years, the administration of antiresorptive drugs is promising: Estrogens (plus progestagens), calcitonins, bisphosphonates. About 10 years after the menopause bone turnover slows down to low turnover. Now the administration of bone-formation stimulating agents is to be preferred: fluorides in the first line, perhaps anabolics in single cases. The prominent fracture of women older than 75 years is the hip fracture (type II osteoporosis). Bone turnover mostly is accelerated again, now due to secondary hyperparathyroidism as a consequence of long-lasting calcium and vitamin D deficiency. For treatment, calcium plus vitamin D is recommended. The exact diagnosis of the metabolic status of the skeleton is a prerequisite for the choice of the optimal therapeutic principle.
