Intraocular hemorrhage from wound neovascularization years after anterior segment surgery (Swan syndrome).	At the Mayo Clinic from 1972 to 1986, 15 patients (17 eyes) had intraocular hemorrhage due to neovascularization of the stromal wound years after anterior segment surgery (Swan syndrome). Months to years after surgery patients complained of low-grade blurring that was painless and transient. The hemorrhage was seen after intracapsular cataract extraction, and one third of the patients had had an intraocular lens implant. Of the 15 patients 14 were referred, 6 for vitreous hemorrhage, 5 for recurrent hyphema, 2 for amaurosis fugax and 1 for recurrent uveitis. The average time between surgery and presentation was 4 years. The initial visual acuity was better than 20/40 in 15 eyes (extremes 20/20 and hand movement), and intraocular pressure was elevated above 30 mm Hg in 2 eyes. Treatment included periodic observation (in 10 eyes), goniophotocoagulation (in 7) and limbal cryopexy (in 3). After a mean follow-up period of 3 years all 17 eyes showed normal acuity and intraocular pressure. No patient had intractable glaucoma or phthisis.
Origin of simple glial epiretinal membranes in an animal model.	Severe vitreous hemorrhage was simulated by the injection of 0.2 ml fresh uncoagulated autologous blood into the vitreous cavity of eight rabbits. Four weeks later, hemoglobin released from lysis of the original intravitreal clot had formed a thick layer on the retina. At this stage, many macrophages were conspicuous on the retinal surface and, in addition, in seven of the eight eyes, small cellular membranes were found by scanning electron microscopy. Light and transmission electron microscopy showed these membranes to be derived from accessory glial cells and their progeny. The membranes resembled the simple epiretinal membranes that occur in human eyes.
Morphologic changes in the vitreous body during intravitreal hematoma in hemophthalmos]	The experimental hemophthalm caused by the administration of different amounts of blood (0.1 to 1.2 ml) into the vitreous body of 74 rabbits with the following analysis of the results in I h-3.5 years has demonstrated that hematoma developed in the vitreous body at the moment of blood administration and persisted for 6-7 months. Mechanical, physico-chemical and biological effects of intravitreal hematoma are associated with syneresis of some and synchysis of other vitreous body areas and the following formation of films in induration sites and appearance of uncharacteristic structures.
Reversible posterior detachment of the vitreous body]	As a rule, posterior detachment of the vitreous body (even the simple, flat, incomplete type) is irreversible, but in some cases of fresh, moderate, retrovitreal hemorrhage caused by untreated vasoproliferative retinopathy there is evidence of spontaneous reattachment of the vitreous body. Details of this finding are described.
Retinal arteriovenous malformation with fluctuating vision and ischemic central retinal vein occlusion and its sequelae: 25-year follow-up of a case.	A patient with a retinal arteriovenous malformation (AVM) had experienced episodic visual loss with spontaneous recovery for many years, followed by permanent visual loss secondary to central retinal vein occlusion. She subsequently progressed to development of retinal neovascularization extending onto the posterior vitreous face with recurrent vitreous hemorrhage requiring vitrectomy. A brief review of the literature is presented, and the cause of the fluctuations in vision and central retinal vein occlusion are discussed.
