Hyaluronic acid (with fibronectin) as a bioimplant for the vocal fold mucosa.	To measure the viscoelastic shear properties of hyaluronic acid, with and without fibronectin, and to compare them with those of the human vocal fold mucosa and other phonosurgical biomaterials.
Modeling of chaotic vibrations in symmetric vocal folds.	The chaos mechanism of above-range phonation was examined in symmetrically modeled vocal folds by using the traditional two-mass model assumption. The Poincaré map technique was used to display chaotic attractors. This method provided an effective description of irregular vocal-fold movements. The power spectrum, Lyapunov exponent, and Kaplan-Yorke dimension were employed to describe chaotic vibrations in the vocal-fold model. These nonlinear dynamic analyses suggested that, for the positive Lyapunov exponent, chaotic attractors contribute to irregular vocal-fold vibrations. Descriptions of complicated irregular vibrations of the vocal fold yielded evidence of chaos. To investigate the effects of independent parameters such as subglottal pressure, coupling stiffness, and phonation neutral area, bifurcation diagrams based on the Poincaré map were discussed. The results confirmed that the dynamics of the two-mass model was strongly influenced by independent parameters. Nonlinear dynamic methods were expected to provide useful information for better understanding of irregular vocal-fold vibrations as well as of the dynamic mechanism of above-range phonation in excised larynx experimentation.
The harmonic-to-noise ratio applied to dog barks.	Dog barks are typically a mixture of regular components and irregular (noisy) components. The regular part of the signal is given by a series of harmonics and is most probably due to regular vibrations of the vocal folds, whereas noise refers to any nonharmonic (irregular) energy in the spectrum of the bark signal. The noise components might be due to chaotic vibrations of the vocal-fold tissue or due to turbulence of the air. The ratio of harmonic to nonharmonic energy in dog barks is quantified by applying the harmonics-to-noise ratio (HNR). Barks of a single dog breed were recorded in the same behavioral context. Two groups of dogs were considered: a group of ten healthy dogs (the normal sample), and a group of ten unhealthy dogs, i.e., dogs treated in a veterinary clinic (the clinic sample). Although the unhealthy dogs had no voice disease, differences in emotion or pain or impacts of surgery might have influenced their barks. The barks of the dogs were recorded for a period of 6 months. The HNR computation is based on the Fourier spectrum of a 50-ms section from the middle of the bark. A 10-point moving average curve of the spectrum on a logarithmic scale is considered as estimator of the noise level in the bark, and the maximum difference of the original spectrum and the moving average is defined as the HNR measure. It is shown that a reasonable ranking of the voices is achievable based on the measurement of the HNR. The HNR-based classification is found to be consistent with perceptual evaluation of the barks. In addition, a multiparametric approach confirms the classification based on the HNR. Hence, it may be concluded that the HNR might be useful as a novel parameter in bioacoustics for quantifying the noise within a signal.
Simple motor gestures for birdsongs.	We present a model of sound production in a songbird's vocal organ and find that much of the complexity of the song of the canary (Serinus canaria) can be produced from simple time variations in forcing functions. The starts, stops, and pauses between syllables, as well as variation in pitch and timbre are inherent in the mechanics and can often be expressed through smooth and simple variations in the frequency and relative phase of two driving parameters
Effects of speaking rate on the control of vocal fold vibration: clinical implications of active and passive aspects of devoicing.	Stevens (1991) has suggested that, while speakers control glottal apertures in producing consonants, the buildup of intraoral pressure during an oral closure creates decreases in transglottal flow, which can, in itself, reduce or halt vocal fold vibrations. The object of this study was to determine whether speakers can take advantage of such pressure effects in controlling the voicing attributes of intervocalic stops. Intraoral pressure, vocal fold vibration (Lx portions of electroglottograms), and electromyographic (EMG) activity of the orbicularis oris inferior were monitored for 6 subjects while they produced at "slow," "normal," and "fast" speaking rates utterances containing intervocalic stops /p/ and /b/. Product-moment correlations between the intervocalic pressure rises and the amplitude contour of Lx showed strong negative relationships at normal-to-fast rates of speech. However, this relationship was not maintained at slower rates, where decreases in the amplitude of Lx sometimes occurred before the onset of EMG activity in the labial adductor. The findings suggest that, at normal-to-fast rates of speech, speakers can use the passive effects of pressure in controlling vocal fold vibration for stop consonants.
Relationship between transglottal pressure and fundamental frequency of phonation, with effects of dehydration produced by atropine, in healthy volunteers.	We investigated the effects of the intravenous injection of atropine sulfate on the relationship between the fundamental frequency of phonation (F0) and the magnitude of F0 change per unit change in transglottal pressure (dF/dP) in 4 healthy male volunteers. Before the injection of atropine, we observed a nonlinear or V-shaped relationship between dF/dP and F0. After the injection, the values for dF/dP were reduced at a lower F0, whereas the values were unchanged at a higher F0. The results support our hypothesis that the relationship between dF/dP and F0 reflects adjustments in the length and depth of the vocal folds in controlling F0.
Vibrato rate adjustment.	The goal of the present study was to document the acoustic changes that occur as singers attempt to increase or decrease their vibrato rate to match target stimuli. Eight advanced singing students produced vowels with vibrato in three registers, both naturally and while attempting to match faster or slower rate stimuli. Slower rates were associated with lower intensity and less steady vibrato. Faster rates involved increased vibrato extent in the chest register and increased intensity in the head register. Singers whose spontaneous vibrato rates were naturally either slower or faster tended to also be relatively slower or faster when matching target rates. This ability to modify rate may have beneficial effects on the artistic quality of the voice for performance.
Attraction and social coordination: mutual entrainment of vocal activity rhythms.	To investigate factors that affect the mutual entrainment of vocal activity rhythms, female general psychology students paired according to attitude similarity questionnaires engaged in 40-minute introductory conversations. Fourier analyses performed on speakers' on-off vocal activity demonstrated periodic oscillations in talkativeness. Although some dyads coordinated their vocal activity rhythms, speech accommodation was not predicted by attitude similarity or attraction and did not affect ratings of conversation quality. These rhythms of dialogue appear resistant to change, their behavioral momentum rooted perhaps in an underlying chronobiology.
A visual model of articulation]	Speech disorders become more and more important in clinical area of phoniatrics. It is striking during consultation and treatment of patients that there exist only humble concrete notions concerning speech organs and articulatory movements. Using the computational model introduced here speech organs and speech movements of unrestricted utterances can be displayed in the mediosagittal plane. Articulation is described concisely by using nine basic parameters. The time pattern of these parameter-values defines the articulatory motion plan of an utterance and gives a comprehensive overview of the spatio-temporal structure of the appertaining speech movements. The use of the model in speech therapy shall make patients sensitive for the existence of speech articulators--especially for those which are normally not directly visible (back tongue region, soft palate)--and help to understand and memorize the appertaining movement patterns.
Experimental study of the effects of surface mucus viscosity on the glottic cycle.	Numerous clinical findings indicate that viscosity of laryngeal mucosa is a crucial factor in glottal perfomance. Experience using experimental test benches has shown the importance of humidifying air stream used to induce vibration in excised larynges. Nevertheless, there is a lack of knowledge particularly regarding the physicochemical properties of laryngeal mucus. The purpose of this study was to research vocal fold vibration in excised larynges using artificial mucus of precisely known viscosity. Eight freshly harvested porcine larynges were examined. Parameters measured were Fo and vocal fold contact time. Measurements were performed under three conditions: basal (no fluid application on vocal cord surface), after application of a fluid of 60cP viscosity (Visc60), and after application of a fluid of 100cP viscosity (Visc100). Electroglottographic measurements were performed at two different times for each condition: 1 s after airflow onset (T1) and 6 seconds after airflow onset (T2). Statistical analysis consisted of comparing data obtained under each condition at T1 and T2. The results showed a significant decrease in Fo after application of Visc60 and Visc100 fluids and a decrease in Fo at T2. Closure time was significantly higher under Visc60 conditions and under Visc100 conditions than under basal conditions. Application of artificial mucus to the mucosa of the vocal folds lowered vibratory frequency and prolonged the contact phase. Our interpretation of this data is that the presence of mucus on the surface of the vocal folds generated superficial tension and caused adhesion, which is a source of nonlinearity in vocal vibration.
Measurements of vocal fold tissue viscoelasticity: approaching the male phonatory frequency range.	Viscoelastic shear properties of human vocal fold tissues have been reported previously. However, data have only been obtained at very low frequencies (< or = 15 Hz). This necessitates data extrapolation to the frequency range of phonation based on constitutive modeling and time-temperature superposition. This study attempted to obtain empirical measurements at higher frequencies with the use of a controlled strain torsional rheometer, with a design of directly controlling input strain that introduced significantly smaller system inertial errors compared to controlled stress rheometry. Linear viscoelastic shear properties of the vocal fold mucosa (cover) from 17 canine larynges were quantified at frequencies of up to 50 Hz. Consistent with previous data, results showed that the elastic shear modulus (G'), viscous shear modulus (G"), and damping ratio (zeta) of the vocal fold mucosa were relatively constant across 0.016-50 Hz, whereas the dynamic viscosity (eta') decreased monotonically with frequency. Constitutive characterization of the empirical data by a quasilinear viscoelastic model and a statistical network model demonstrated trends of viscoelastic behavior at higher frequencies generally following those observed at lower frequencies. These findings supported the use of controlled strain rheometry for future investigations of the viscoelasticity of vocal fold tissues and phonosurgical biomaterials at phonatory frequencies.
What do we know about how humans cough?	We review the evidence that activation of the cerebral cortex can lead to movements of the vocal folds and possibly to cough. Electrical stimulation of the motor cortex can cause movements of the vocal folds and vocalizatioin, but cough has not been reported. The motor pathways are via the nucleus ambiguous and possibly the nucleus retroambuigualis in the brainstem. In humans, activation of the cerebral cortex by transcranial magnetic stimulation can cause motor potentials in the intrinsic laryngeal muscles and corresponding surface potentials. The relationships between the cortical sensation related to cough, the voluntary control of cough and the involvement of reflex pathways remain to be clarified.
The relationship among voice onset, voice quality, and fundamental frequency: a dynamical perspective.	In dynamical motor theory, skill acquisition occurs as a modification of preexisting coordination patterns or attractor states. The purpose of this study was to assess how different levels of voice onset, voice quality, and fundamental frequency (F(0)) combine to form the attractor states common to voice motor control. Three levels of voice onset (glottal, simultaneous, and breathy), voice quality (modal speech, mixed, and falsetto), and fundamental frequency (low, mid, and high) were manipulated by vocally untrained, female subjects. Percent correct of acquisition trials and self-report of effort were used as measures of stable phonations indicative of an attractor state. Using intensity as a covariate, the results provided support for two of the three predicted triads representing attractor states in female speakers: (1) glottal onset/modal speech quality/low F(0); and (2) breathy onset/falsetto quality/high F(0). The results of this study suggest that certain parameters of voice motor control, such as onset, quality, and F(0), exist as part of a dynamical system that can be identified and manipulated in voice motor acquisition and learning.
Perceived phonatory effort and phonation threshold pressure across a prolonged voice loading task: a study of vocal fatigue.	Although the problem of vocal fatigue is not uncommon in people with voice disorders, research on objective quantifiable indicators of vocal fatigue is limited. It has been suggested that a speaker's perception of increased phonatory effort associated with periods of prolonged voice use is related to increased lung pressure required to initiate and sustain phonation. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationship among perceived phonatory effort (PPE), which was used as a subjective index of vocal fatigue, and phonation threshold pressure (PTP), a quantifiable measure defined as the minimal lung pressure required to initiate and sustain vocal fold oscillation. PTP and PPE were recorded before, during, and after five adult male and five adult female speakers engaged in a prolonged oral reading task designed to induce vocal fatigue. The results supported a direct, moderately strong relationship between PTP and PPE, particularly when PTP was measured during speech produced at comfortable and low-speaking pitch levels. No gender effects were found. PTP returned to baseline levels within 1 hour after the fatiguing task. PPE returned to baseline within 1 day. The data support the use of PTP as an objective index of vocal fatigue.
Fragments of a Greek Trilogy: impact on phonation.	This study documents the vocal characteristics of an actor before and after a series of eight performances involving extended voice use. The hypothesis was that this type of extended voice use would result in symptoms of vocal abuse and that damage to the actor's voice would be evident in measures made after the performance series. Three pre-performance and three post-performance speech samples were gathered and analyzed using the CSL and Visipitch II. Measurements taken included maximum phonational range; maximum sustained phonation; fundamental frequency during reading; maximum intensity levels; sound pressure levels for soft, moderate, and loud productions of sustained /a/; and perturbation including jitter, shimmer, harmonics-to-noise ratio, and an s/z ratio. Pre- and post-performance samples of the "Rainbow passage" and sustained vowel phonation were rated by a group of blinded listeners that included professional voice trainers and speech pathologists. In addition, sample lines from the performance were played for the listeners to judge whether this technique would result in symptoms of vocal abuse. Eleven out of 12 professional voice trainers rated that this technique would result in symptoms of vocal abuse. The data revealed post-performance improvement in phonational range, maximum intensity levels, perturbation measures, and s/z ratio. Measures of maximum sustained phonation, fundamental frequency, and sound pressure levels remained stable. Videoendoscopy revealed normal function of the larynx and vocal folds.
Reliability and applicability of aerodynamic measures in dysphonia assessment.	Aerodynamic measures are frequently used to analyse and document pathological voices. Some normative data are available for speakers from the English-speaking population. However, no data are available yet for Chinese speakers despite the fact that they are one of the largest populations in the world. The high variability of aerodynamic measures between and within subjects raises the issue of reliability and usefulness of this procedure in discriminating between normal and pathological voices. This study aimed to investigate the use of mean airflow rate and sub-glottal pressure in predicting normal and pathological voices. It also aimed to determine whether a higher number of repeated airflow measures would provide a better representation of the normative data in distinguishing normal from abnormal voices. The study provided a small set of preliminary normative data for Chinese speakers. Aerodynamic measures were collected from 56 Cantonese female adults using a Kay Elemetrics Aerophone II. The results showed that the accuracy in predicting a voice to be dysphonic or normal using aerodynamic measures was as high as 91.1%. The accuracy was found to improve when the number of measurements for each aerodynamic parameter was increased from three to five. The overlapping of data between the dysphonic and non-dysphonic groups, however, suggests that the aerodynamic measures should be used as an adjunct to assessment of voice disorders rather than as a diagnostic tool alone.
Laryngeal reflex before and after placement of airway interventions: endotracheal tube and laryngeal mask airway.	Previous reports indicate that detrimental laryngeal function persists over several hours after tracheal extubation even in patients who have regained full consciousness from anesthesia. The authors hypothesize that even after minor surgery, the presence of an endotracheal tube (ETT) impairs the receptors at the vocal cord and diminishes the defensive laryngeal function. The hypothesis was tested by comparing types of experimentally induced laryngeal airway reflexes before and after surgery in anesthetized patients with use of either an ETT or a Laryngeal Mask Airway.
Endoscopic measurement of vocal fold movement during adduction and abduction.	Whereas vibration of the vocal folds has been analyzed and modeled in detail, less attention has been paid to quantifying the slower motions of abduction and adduction. Because these gestures reflect neuromuscular function, cartilage geometry, and joint mobility, objective measurement might improve assessment and treatment of patients with neuromuscular or structural disease.
Shortening of the front vibrating part of the vocal folds in phonation.	We have tried to make use of the opportunity of repeated observations through the analysis of the recorded movements of the phonating vocal folds by means of the phonating vocal folds through indirect videolaryngostroboscopic technique. The results of our investigation correspond, among others, with Hála and Sovák's diagrammatic description of continual and gradual changes in the vibration of the vocal folds in an uninterrupted sequence of tones of the human voice. In the initial chapter mention has been made of Hála and Honty's works and of Pressmann's work dealing with the described behaviour of the glottis when phonating high-pitched tones. The conclusions analogous to our findings have also been described by means of stereoscopically measuring the length of the phonating vocal folds. In conclusion, by measuring the distances between the anterior commissure and the junction between the membranous part of the vocal fold and vocal process of the arytenoid and the anterior commissure to the posterior nodal point of the vibrating part of the vocal folds we have verified the correctness of the findings published by Czermak, Hála and Honty, Pressmann, and Sovák, who pointed out the phenomenon of the shortening of the front vibrating part of the vocal folds in phonating high-pitched tones of the human voice.
Stroboscopy as a research instrument: development of a perceptual evaluation tool.	Laryngeal stroboscopy is arguably the most important clinical tool for the evaluation and treatment of patients with voice disorders. Unfortunately, at present, laryngeal stroboscopy is strictly a clinical tool and has no definitive use in the area of voice research. The limitation with laryngeal stroboscopy is the subjective nature of the interpretation of the video examination. A video stroboscopy research tool was developed using 10 stroboscopic parameters selected from the literature and clinical practice. The stroboscopy research tool was validated with the results of 18 reviewers using the instrument to rate 21 unique "cases" and 6 repeated "cases." The results of this video perceptual analysis study identified which parameters were the most robust and reliable across a wide range of reviewers and validated power analysis curves for future similar research. Furthermore, findings from this study revealed that a greater than 80% intra-rater reliability is the preferred method for the selection of a valid and reliable reviewer. Future research using this instrument will most likely increase the reliability and utility of the instrument with the use of prestudy reviewer training and/or the use of video examples to serve as anchors or external references.
A comparison of vocal fold closure in rigid telescopic and flexible fiberoptic laryngostroboscopy.	Fifteen normal speakers (7 women and 8 men), ranging in age from 21 to 35 years, were examined consecutively with rigid telescopy and flexible fiberscopy during sustained phonation at 3 loudness levels. The endoscopes were connected to a stroboscope and video equipment. The purpose was to investigate whether the two laryngeal examination procedures affect vocal fold closure differently. The degree of closure was judged from video tapes by 5 experienced voice clinicians who used a rating form. Intra- and interjudge reliabilities were satisfactory. The estimated degree of incomplete closure was significantly higher during rigid telescopy than during flexible fiberscopy and the difference was especially evident in soft phonation. The degree of incomplete closure decreased significantly with increased loudness, regardless of method. The importance of relating laryngoscopic findings to the loudness of phonation as well as to possible effects of the method of examination is obvious from the results.
Experimental studies on the viscoelasticity of the vocal fold.	Viscoelasticity of the vocal fold was assessed by analyzing the stress-strain relationship under several experimental conditions. The stiffness increased with greater tension of the vocal fold. Marked differences in the mechanical properties were noted between the "body" and the "cover" of the vocal fold, especially when tension was applied. Contraction of the thyroarytenoid muscle tended to make the vocal fold less stiff and more viscous. Dry vocal-fold mucosa was associated with greater stiffness. Submucosal injection of saline solution to simulate edema increased the stiffness and viscosity of the vocal fold.
Outcome of vocal hygiene in singers.	In this article, we illustrate the evolution of studies that contribute to a better understanding of vocal care for professional voice users and singers in particular.
What have we learned about laryngeal physiology from high-speed digital videoendoscopy?	The purpose of this review is to describe recent developments in high-speed videoendoscopy. The applications of this technique are highlighted and important findings regarding vocal fold physiology and voice pathology are discussed.
Pattern of gross displacement of the vocal fold in adduction and abduction movements.	The pattern of gross displacement of the vocal fold during adduction and abduction was studied in 4 adult fresh human larynges (2 males and 2 females). Markers were placed on specific sites along the edge of the vocal fold. Preliminary observations showed upward and lateral movement of the free edge during abduction. The vocal fold as a whole glides into and fills the cavity of the laryngeal ventricle. To quantify this observation 14 larynges (8 males and 6 females) were studied, using a technique designed to measure vertical and horizontal displacement of the vocal fold. An average of a 1.34 mm elevation and 4.43 mm lateral excursion were observed at midvocal fold level. A model for studying the pattern of vocal fold abduction is suggested and discussed.
Simulated effects of cricothyroid and thyroarytenoid muscle activation on adult-male vocal fold vibration.	Adjustments to cricothyroid and thyroarytenoid muscle activation are critical to the control of fundamental frequency and aerodynamic aspects of vocal fold vibration in humans. The aerodynamic and physical effects of these muscles are not well understood and are difficult to study in vivo. Knowledge of the contributions of these two muscles is essential to understanding both normal and disordered voice physiology. In this study, a three-mass model for voice simulation in adult males was used to produce systematic changes to cricothyroid and thyroarytenoid muscle activation levels. Predicted effects on fundamental frequency, aerodynamic quantities, and physical quantities of vocal fold vibration were assessed. Certain combinations of these muscle activations resulted in aerodynamic and physical characteristics of vibration that might increase the mechanical stress placed on the vocal fold tissue.
Effects of vocal loudness variation on spectrum balance as reflected by the alpha measure of long-term-average spectra of speech.	The overall slope of long-term-average spectrum (LTAS) decreases if vocal loudness increases. Therefore, changes of vocal loudness also affects the alpha measure, defined as the ratio of spectrum intensity above and below 1000 Hz. The effect on alpha of loudness variation was analyzed in 15 male and 16 female voices reading a text at different degrees of vocal loudness. The mean range of equivalent sound level (L(eq)) amounted to about 28 dB and the mean range of alpha to 19.0 and 11.7 dB for the female and male subjects. The L(eq) vs. alpha relationship could be approximated with a quadratic function, or by a linear equation, if softest phonation was excluded. Using such equations alpha was computed for all values of L(eq) observed for each subject and compared with observed values. The maximum and the mean absolute errors were 2.4 dB and between 0.1 and 0.6 dB. When softest phonation was disregarded and linear equations were used, the maximum error was less than 2 dB and the mean absolute errors were between 0.2 and 0.7 dB. The strong correlation between L(eq) and alpha indicates that for a voice L(eq) can be used for predicting alpha.
The shear modulus of the human vocal fold, preliminary results from 20 larynxes.	Quantification of the elastic properties of the human vocal fold provides invaluable data for researchers deriving mathematical models of phonation, developing tissue engineering therapies, and as normative data for comparison between healthy and scarred tissue. This study measured the shear modulus of excised cadaver vocal folds from 20 subjects. Twenty freshly excised human larynxes were evaluated less than four days post-mortem. They were split along the saggital plane and mounted without tension. Shear modulus was obtained by two different methods. For method 1 cyclical shear stress was applied transversely to the mid-membranous portion of the vocal fold, and shear modulus derived by applying a simple shear model. For method 2 the apparatus was configured as an indentometer, and shear modulus obtained from the stress/strain data by applying an established analytical technique. Method 1 shear model for male larynxes yielded a range from 246 to 3,356 Pa, with a mean value of 1,008 and SD of 380. The range for female larynxes was 286-3,332 Pa, with a mean value of 1,237 and SD of 768. Method 2 indentometer model for male larynxes yielded a range from 552 to 2,741 Pa, with a mean value of 1,000 and SD of 460. The range for female larynxes was 509-1,989 Pa, with a mean value of 1,332 and SD of 428. We have successfully demonstrated two methodologies that are capable of directly measuring the shear modulus of the human vocal fold, without dissecting out the vocal fold cover tissue. The sample size of nine female and 11 male larynxes is too small to validate a general conclusion. The high degree of variability in this small cohort of subjects indicates that factors such as age, health status, and post-mortem delay may be significant; and that there is range of 'normality' for vocal fold tissue.
In vivo measurement of the shear modulus of the human vocal fold: interim results from eight patients.	The shear modulus of the vocal fold is an essential parameter required to enhance our understanding of how the vocal fold operates, to develop mathematical models of phonatation, and to provide benchmarks to quantify the effectiveness of surgical procedures. The authors announced the successful deployment of an instrument to measure vocal fold elasticity in vivo last year, and now present the data taken from eight patients in vivo. The shear modulus was measured at the mid-membranous point, in a transverse direction with respect to the axis drawn between the anterior commissure and vocal process. The range of mean shear modulus results is 701-2,225 Pa, with a mean value of 1,371 Pa.
Coherent structures of the near field flow in a self-oscillating physical model of the vocal folds.	Current theories of voice production depend critically upon knowledge of the near field flow which emanates from the glottis. While most modern theories predict complex, three-dimensional structures in the near field flow, few investigations have attempted to quantify such structures. Using methods of flow visualization and digital particle image velocimetry, this study measured the near field flow structures immediately downstream of a self-oscillating, physical model of the vocal folds, with a vocal tract attached. A spatio-temporal analysis of the structures was performed using the method of empirical orthogonal eigenfunctions. Some of the observed flow structures included vortex generation, vortex convection, and jet flapping. The utility of such data in the future development of more accurate, low-dimensional models of voice production is discussed.
Influence of acoustic loading on an effective single mass model of the vocal folds.	Three-way interactions between sound waves in the subglottal and supraglottal tracts, the vibrations of the vocal folds, and laryngeal flow were investigated. Sound wave propagation was modeled using a wave reflection analog method. An effective single-degree-of-freedom model was designed to model vocal-fold vibrations. The effects of orifice geometry changes on the flow were considered by enforcing a time-varying discharge coefficient within a Bernoulli flow model. The resulting single-degree-of-freedom model allowed for energy transfer from flow to structural vibrations, an essential feature usually incorporated through the use of higher order models. The relative importance of acoustic loading and the time-varying flow resistance for fluid-structure energy transfer was established for various configurations. The results showed that acoustic loading contributed more significantly to the net energy transfer than the time-varying flow resistance, especially for less inertive supraglottal loads. The contribution of supraglottal loading was found to be more significant than that of subglottal loading. Subglottal loading was found to reduce the net energy transfer to the vocal-fold oscillation during phonation, balancing the effects of the supraglottal load.
Human brain activation during phonation and exhalation: common volitional control for two upper airway functions.	Phonation is defined as a laryngeal motor behavior used for speech production, which involves a highly specialized coordination of laryngeal and respiratory neuromuscular control. During speech, brief periods of vocal fold vibration for vowels are interspersed by voiced and unvoiced consonants, glottal stops and glottal fricatives (/h/). It remains unknown whether laryngeal/respiratory coordination of phonation for speech relies on separate neural systems from respiratory control or whether a common system controls both behaviors. To identify the central control system for human phonation, we used event-related fMRI to contrast brain activity during phonation with activity during prolonged exhalation in healthy adults. Both whole-brain analyses and region of interest comparisons were conducted. Production of syllables containing glottal stops and vowels was accompanied by activity in left sensorimotor, bilateral temporoparietal and medial motor areas. Prolonged exhalation similarly involved activity in left sensorimotor and temporoparietal areas but not medial motor areas. Significant differences between phonation and exhalation were found primarily in the bilateral auditory cortices with whole-brain analysis. The ROI analysis similarly indicated task differences in the auditory cortex with differences also detected in the inferolateral motor cortex and dentate nucleus of the cerebellum. A second experiment confirmed that activity in the auditory cortex only occurred during phonation for speech and did not depend upon sound production. Overall, a similar central neural system was identified for both speech phonation and voluntary exhalation that primarily differed in auditory monitoring.
A two-dimensional biomechanical model of vocal fold posturing.	The forces and torques governing effective two-dimensional (2D) translation and rotation of the laryngeal cartilages (cricoid, thyroid, and arytenoids) are quantified on the basis of more complex three-dimensional movement. The motions between these cartilages define the elongation and adduction (collectively referred to as posturing) of the vocal folds. Activations of the five intrinsic laryngeal muscles, the cricothyroid, thyroarytenoid, lateral cricoarytenoid, posterior cricoarytenoid, and interarytenoid are programmed as inputs, in isolation and in combination, to produce the dynamics of 2D posturing. Parameters for the muscles are maximum active stress, passive stress, activation time, contraction time, and maximum shortening velocity. The model accepts measured electromyographic signals as inputs. A repeated adductory-abductory gesture in the form /hi-hi-hi-hi-hi/ is modeled with electromyographic inputs. Movement and acoustic outputs are compared between simulation and measurement.
Some roles of the vocal tract in clarinet breath attacks: natural sounds analysis and model-based synthesis.	A simplified physical model mainly devoted to the reproduction of some transients of clarinet-like instruments is presented. From time-frequency analyses of natural clarinet sounds, it is shown that the vocal tract can play a significant role in some attacks as well as in the permanent regime. The model proposed consists in supplying a pressure source at the entrance of a cylindrical bore attached to the mouthpiece, allowing one to reach various vocal tract configurations. For real-time synthesis purposes, a digital scheme solving the physical problem is proposed. It is shown that this synthesis model is able to reproduce some of the complex features observed during the attacks of the natural sounds analyzed, as well as known effects of the vocal tract in permanent regime.
Assessment of the dynamics of vocal fold contact from the electroglottogram: data from normal male subjects.	Electroglottographic (EGG) and acoustic records from 10 normal men prolonging the vowel /a/ at 60-68 dB, 70-78 dB, and 80-88 dB SPL were obtained. "Contact quotient" (EGG duty cycle) was shown to vary directly with vocal SPL. The mean contact quotient was 0.57 (SD = 0.07) and varied on the order of 1% over the course of a given phonation. "Contact index", a metric of EGG symmetry, also tended to vary with SPL. Consistent with previous qualitative descriptions of EGG morphology in modal register voice, the contact index averaged -0.52 (SD = 0.08), indicating that the EGG "closing phase" represents about 24% of the entire "contact phase". Contact index was more variable than contact quotient on consecutive EGG waves, varying by about 10% during phonation. Subjects were also instructed to produce a slow crescendo. Sound pressure and EGG data indicated that both the slope of increasing EGG contact and EGG duty cycle were significantly related to the amplitude of the acoustic signal. These results suggest that quantitative electroglottography may provide powerful insights into the control and regulation of normal phonation and into the detection and characterization of pathology.
Voice emission and the tongue]	Tongue function is seldom studied in relationship to voice emission. Normal tongue function supports to a varying extent subsequent phases of voice emission, including respiration, phonation, articulation, and resonance. Disorders of tongue motoric function lead to difficulties in voice emission at each of these phases. The disorders vary as to the degree, type, and extent but in consequence lead to pathologies of the organ of voice. When learning voice emission, more attention paid to tongue function and its role in voice formation could improve the training and rehabilitation processes.
Glottal inverse filtering with the closed-phase covariance analysis utilizing mathematical constraints in modelling of the vocal tract.	Closed-phase (CP) covariance analysis is a glottal inverse filtering method based on the estimation of the vocal tract with linear prediction (LP) during the closed phase of the vocal fold vibration cycle. Since the closed phase is typically short, the analysis is vulnerable with respect to the extraction of the covariance frame position. The present study proposes a modified CP algorithm based on imposing certain predefined values on the gains of the vocal tract inverse filter at angular frequencies of 0 and pi in optimizing filter coefficients. With these constraints, vocal tract models are less prone to show false low-frequency roots. Experiments show that the algorithm improves the robustness of the CP analysis on the covariance frame position.
Vocal fold contact area patterns in normal speakers: an investigation using the electrolaryngograph interface system.	This study investigates patterns of vocal fold movement in normal speakers. With the use of new computer software, laryngograph (Lx) waveforms from 100 normal speakers were examined. Specifically, four phases of the Lx waveform were observed and measured. These were then compared on both an interpersonal and intrapersonal basis. The results indicated that four phases were clearly identifiable in almost all subjects and that measurements of the closure and closed phases showed a high degree of consistency. The opening and open phases were more variable. In addition the onset and offset patterns of phonation were observed. Clear patterns were identified, consistent between speakers. The results are discussed with reference to the degree of consistency that can be expected in the vocal fold movement of normal speakers.
Posterior cricoarytenoid activity in normal adults during involuntary and voluntary hyperventilation.	The effect of isocapnic hypoxia and hyperoxic hypercapnia on the electrical activity of the posterior cricoarytenoid (PCA) muscle was determined in eight normal adult humans by use of standard rebreathing techniques and was compared with PCA activity during voluntary hyperventilation performed under isocapnic and hypocapnic conditions. PCA activity was recorded with intramuscular hooked-wire electrodes implanted through a fiberoptic nasopharyngoscope. During quiet breathing in all subjects, the PCA was phasically active on inspiration and tonically active throughout the respiratory cycle. At comparable increments in respiratory output, hypercapnia, hypoxia, and voluntary hyperventilation appeared to be associated with similar increases in phasic or tonic PCA activity. During quiet breathing, the onset of phasic PCA activity usually occurred before inspiratory airflow and extended beyond the start of expiratory airflow. The duration of phasic PCA preactivation and postinspiratory phasic PCA activity remained unchanged during progressive hypercapnia and progressive hypoxia. The results, in combination with recent findings for vocal cord adductors, suggest that vocal cord position throughout the respiratory cycle during hyperpnea is actively controlled by simultaneously acting and antagonistic intrinsic laryngeal muscles.
First results of a study for the standardization of the electroglottogram of the normal subject]	"Primary results of a study for the standardization of the electroglottogram in normal subjects". Using one sample of waveforms from 151 normal subjects, 79 females form 17 to 80 years of age and 72 males from 12 to 85, the waves were normalized in accordance with frequency and amplitude. Two Kinds of parameters were measured, a) morphological, consisting in the three temporal phases determined by the three main inflexions of the waveform, and b) global, obtained when the glottal cycle is divide through the horizontal line of the electrical "O" into a negative and a positive semi-wave. Statistical analysis shows significant variations in the morphological parameters according to sex, age and fundamental frequency of voice Fo, confirming their close correlation with the vibratory events in the glottis. No significant relations have been found between global parameters and sex, age and Fo, indicating a lack of correlation between the electrical "O" line of the electroglottogram and the vibratory events of the glottal cycle.
Oral and vocal fold diadochokinesis in children.	To establish reference values concerning the results of oral and vocal fold diadochokinesis (DDK) assessment, as well as to analyze the differences among gender and age.
Automated measurement of vocal fold vibratory asymmetry from high-speed videoendoscopy recordings.	In prior work, a manually derived measure of vocal fold vibratory phase asymmetry correlated to varying degrees with visual judgments made from laryngeal high-speed videoendoscopy (HSV) recordings. This investigation extended this work by establishing an automated HSV-based framework to quantify 3 categories of vocal fold vibratory asymmetry.
Raised intensity phonation compromises vocal fold epithelial barrier integrity.	We investigated the hypothesis that 30 minutes of raised intensity phonation alters transcript levels of vocal fold intercellular tight junction proteins and disrupts the vocal fold epithelial barrier.
The acoustic study on vowel movement of normal adult]	To study the relationship between the first formant (F1) and jaw, the second formant (F2) and tongue and the third formant (F3) and lip. Fine articulation of jaw, lips, tongue by measured formant of different single-vowel, in order to explore clinical implications of F1, F2 and F3.
Regenerative phonosurgical treatments for vocal fold scar and sulcus with basic fibroblast growth factor.	Vocal fold scar and sulcus are still challenges. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) has proven to be effective to resolve scar tissue in animal models. This study reports the efficacy of regenerative treatments using bFGF on vocal fold scar and sulcus in human cases.
Response to "Comments on 'A theoretical model of the pressure distributions arising from asymmetric intraglottal flows applied to a two-mass model of the vocal folds'" [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 130, 389-403 (2011)].	Hirschberg [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 134, 9-12 (2013)] presents a commentary and criticisms of the viscous flow model presented by Erath et al. [J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 130, 389-403 (2011)] that solves for the asymmetric pressure loading on the vocal fold walls. This pressure loading arises from asymmetric flow attachment to one vocal fold wall when the glottal channel forms a divergent configuration. Hirschberg proposes an alternative model for the asymmetric loading based upon inviscid flow curvature at the glottal inlet. In this manuscript further evidence is provided in support of the model of Erath et al. and the underlying assumptions, and demonstrates that the primary criticisms presented by Hirschberg are unwarranted. The model presented by Hirschberg is compared with the model from the original paper by Erath et al., and it is shown that each model describes different and complementary aspects of divergent glottal flows. 
Formant frequency estimation of high-pitched vowels using weighted linear prediction.	All-pole modeling is a widely used formant estimation method, but its performance is known to deteriorate for high-pitched voices. In order to address this problem, several all-pole modeling methods robust to fundamental frequency have been proposed. This study compares five such previously known methods and introduces a technique, Weighted Linear Prediction with Attenuated Main Excitation (WLP-AME). WLP-AME utilizes temporally weighted linear prediction (LP) in which the square of the prediction error is multiplied by a given parametric weighting function. The weighting downgrades the contribution of the main excitation of the vocal tract in optimizing the filter coefficients. Consequently, the resulting all-pole model is affected more by the characteristics of the vocal tract leading to less biased formant estimates. By using synthetic vowels created with a physical modeling approach, the results showed that WLP-AME yields improved formant frequencies for high-pitched sounds in comparison to the previously known methods (e.g., relative error in the first formant of the vowel [a] decreased from 11% to 3% when conventional LP was replaced with WLP-AME). Experiments conducted on natural vowels indicate that the formants detected by WLP-AME changed in a more regular manner between repetitions of different pitch than those computed by conventional LP. 
Acoustic discrimination of healthy swallows from upper airway movements.	Spontaneous swallowing in dysphagic individuals has been shown to occur at a lower rate compared to healthy controls, and passive swallowing detection may function as a valid screening test to identify dysphagia in at-risk populations. To automate swallow identification, acoustic source and vocal tract features were extracted from two types of swallows and eight upper airway movements from nine healthy subjects. Swallow vs non-swallow classification accuracy was 96.3 ± 1.1%. The results provide useful methods for further development of automated tools for identification of patients with swallowing impairment. 
Using the perturbation of the contact quotient of the EGG waveform to analyze age differences in adult speech.	This study examines electroglottographic (EGG) recordings for 15 young and 14 old male speakers of New Zealand English. Analysis was performed on the sustained vowels /i:/ and /a:/ at three target levels for both pitch and loudness. Jitter was greater for older speakers, and the contact quotient (Qx) was significantly lower for older speakers. The greater jitter for older speakers indicates a decrease in the stability of the vocal production mechanism of the older speakers. The jitter is an acoustic measure, so to examine the stability at a physiological level, a perturbation measure of the Qx is developed and applied to the EGG recordings. The contact quotient perturbation (CQP) showed a significant increase for older speakers (1.55% and 3.54% for young and old, respectively), and this demonstrated more about the variability than the jitter data alone. When loudness is also considered, the Qx was significantly greater for louder vowels, whereas its perturbation was significantly lower for louder vowels. This relationship combined with the age effect, with the CQP for all three loudness levels being greater for the older speakers. The findings of this study will contribute to the development of vocal fold models that account for aging. 
Characterization of the vocal fold vertical stiffness in a canine model.	Characterizing the vertical stiffness gradient that exists between the superior and inferior aspects of the medial surface of the vocal fold. Characterization of this stiffness gradient could elucidate the mechanism behind the divergent glottal shape observed during closing.
Direct simultaneous measurement of intraglottal geometry and velocity fields in excised larynges.	Current theories regarding the mechanisms of phonation are based on assumptions about the aerodynamics between the vocal folds during the closing phase of vocal fold vibration. However, many of these fundamental assumptions have never been validated in a tissue model. In this study, the main objective was to determine the aerodynamics (velocity fields) and the geometry of the medial surface of the vocal folds during the closing phase of vibration. The main hypothesis is that intraglottal vortices are produced during vocal fold closing when the glottal duct has a divergent shape and that these vortices are associated with negative pressures.
Outcome of vocal cord function after partial layer resection of the recurrent laryngeal nerve in patients with invasive papillary thyroid cancer.	The recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) may be involved by thyroid cancer even in patients with functioning vocal cords preoperatively. In such cases, we try to preserve the nerve with sharp dissection. As a result of the dissection, the nerve may become thinner than its original thickness. Here we call this operative procedure "partial layer resection of the RLN," if the thickness of the preserved nerve is less than half of its original size. However, there is no report on postoperative vocal cord function after this procedure.
Two-mass models of the vocal cords for natural sounding voice synthesis.	Three new two-mass models of the vocal cords are treated. First, the features, structure, and differential equations of motion are described for each of the new models and compared with those of previous models. Second, performances of the models are discussed in terms of glottal volume flow, glottal area, radiated sound pressure, trajectories of mass movement, running spectra of the output sound pressure, and perceptual naturalness of the output sound. Finally, the major effects of glottal source-vocal tract interaction including skewing, truncation, and superposition are investigated, using one of the simplest types of two-mass models and two types of load representing the vocal tract.
Electroglottogram waveform types.	Electroglottography is a useful, non-invasive technique that can assist in the assessment of vocal fold dysfunction. However, if it is to become a useful clinical tool, there is a need for normative studies of the electroglottogram waveform types that characterize trained professional voice users, untrained non-professional speakers and patients with voice disorders and for a way of quantifying and objectively comparing similarities and differences. This report describes our methodology and an investigation into the waveform types characterizing one trained professional voice user phonating in 15 experimental sessions under various fundamental frequency, intensity and voice quality conditions. A number of strong tendencies were noted. In normal voice the lower frequencies and intensities represent one pole of a scale of a mode of phonation, while the higher frequencies and intensities depict the other pole. In these studies breathy voice data overlapped the lower end of the scale and tense voice data overlapped the upper end.
Electromagnetic articulography: use of alternating magnetic fields for tracking movements of multiple points inside and outside the vocal tract.	The purpose of this paper is to present a new electromagnetic device which uses alternating magnetic fields for tracking movements of multiple points inside and outside the vocal tract. It is biologically safe, noninvasive, it does not interfere with speech movements, allows for multiple recording in the same subject, and for easy collection of large amounts of data. It is especially suitable for evaluation of patients with speech motor impairments.
Facial-nerve and vocal-cord monitoring during otoneurosurgical operations.	We describe a newly developed instrument to monitor facial muscles and vocal-cord function during neurosurgical and otoneurosurgical operations. The device (Myo-Alarm) transforms into acoustic signals the pressure variations that are induced by facial muscles and vocal-cord contractions on air-inflated rubber sensors that are positioned, respectively, beneath the superior lip and between the vocal cords. It represents an effective and dependable method to monitor facial and vocal-cord functional preservation during surgery.
Aerodynamics of phonation.	An overview is given of the results of simultaneous measurements of mean air flow rate, mean subglottal pressure, and sound intensity in 45 test-persons and 64 voice patients. From these values the efficiency of voice production is calculated. The measuring procedure as well as the use of data from test-persons as reference values is described. Comparing the results of voice patients with these reference values showed that the diagnostic usefulness of measuring aerodynamic data in voice production is generally low. Aerodynamic data from patients with slight adduction disturbances, however, lead to a better understanding of the pathophysiology in cases with an incomplete dorsal glottis closure and give directions to a more adequate therapy programme.
Reinnervation of the allograft larynx in the rat laryngeal transplant model.	The rat model for a vascularized laryngeal allograft is duplicated with significant technical modifications. We report the addition of unilateral host-to-allograft recurrent laryngeal nerve anastomosis to this model. Long-term survival experiments determine the feasibility of reinnervation studies of the allograft larynx with this new mode. A total of 59 transplants have been performed on histocompatible Munich Wistar rats, 36 with attempted unilateral allograft reinnervation. Because of the initially high operative mortality rates, additions and modifications of the original technique resulting in reproducibly enhanced survival are detailed. Factors critical to the functional study of this model with regard to reinnervation are elucidated. Preliminary data on allograft reinnervation are reported as confirmed by videodocumentation of vocal fold mobility, evoked and spontaneous electromyography, and glycogen-depletion studies.
Modes of vocal variation in Sykes's monkey (Cercopithecus albogularis) squeals.	Acoustic and laryngographic measurements of Sykes's monkey (Cercopithecus albogularis) squeals showed that acoustic variation between exemplars was principally due to 4 underlying modes of modification: (Class I) variation in the transfer function produced by articulation, (Class II) variation in F0 produced by inflection, (Class III) variation in turbulence, and (Class IV) variation in the pattern of vibration of laryngeal tissue with large or small surface areas (polyphonic variation). These findings suggest that some modes of variation (Class I, II, and III calls) were due to phonatory and articulatory acts resembling, at a very general level, sound production mechanics used in speech. Acoustic variation in the polyphonic group (Class IV calls) is not evident in speech and was attributed to the possibility of independent and simultaneous vibrations of the vocal lip and the principal component of the vocal folds.
Arytenoid motion evoked by regional electrical stimulation of the canine posterior cricoarytenoid muscle.	Anatomical studies have demonstrated that the posterior cricoarytenoid muscle in the dog is composed of three bellies. These bellies are termed vertical, oblique, and horizontal on the basis of their orientation. The purpose of this study was to show whether each of these bellies can move the vocal fold in different ways. Ten anesthetized dogs underwent laryngectomies while paralyzed with curare. The posterior cricoarytenoid muscles were then exposed by dissecting the overlying esophageal mucosa. Electrical stimulation was applied to each belly, and the motion of the arytenoid cartilage was measured. Because the oblique belly overlies the vertical belly, they were usually stimulated together. It was found that the vertical and oblique bellies rock the arytenoid backwards while sliding it laterally, thus causing a maximal dilation of the airway. The horizontal belly caused a swiveling motion of the arytenoid. It is proposed that the vertical and oblique bellies normally cause vocal fold abduction during respiration, while the horizontal belly primarily is used to adjust finely the position of the vocal process during phonation. Because the human posterior cricoarytenoid is also composed of separate bellies it, too, may have distinct functions.
A clearer view of singing voice production: 25 years of progress.	Voice research has enjoyed its most productive period of history during the past 25 years. Many of the enigmas related to the biomechanics and acoustics of the singing voice have been resolved. This paper presents state-of-the-art understanding regarding the following topics: vibrato, the singer's formant, formant tracking, voice registers, subglottal pressure, voice classification, modes of vocal fold vibration, laryngeal position during singing, flow glottography, and singing synthesis. In addition to these topics, the people who have made the most significant contributions to the advancement of singing research are recognized.
Aerodynamic and electroglottographic measures of normal voice production: intrasubject variability within and across sessions.	The purpose of this investigation was to quantify the normal intrasubject performance variability of four measures of phonatory function within and across sessions. Two different speaking tasks, syllable series and sentence production, were used to determine if more natural speaking tasks resulted in greater intrasubject variability. Vowel type ([i] versus [a]) also was varied. Estimated subglottal air pressure, mean phonatory air flow, abduction quotient, and fundamental frequency were derived from aerodynamic and electroglottographic signals obtained from 11 normally speaking men and 10 normally speaking women on four different days. Relative intrasubject variability was compared across speaking task, gender, and vowel type. Average across-session intrasubject variability was 5% for fundamental frequency and abduction quotient, 8% for estimated subglottal air pressure, and 15% for mean phonatory air flow during syllable repetition. There was significantly greater intrasubject variability for mean phonatory air flow and abduction quotient for the sentence repetition task. There were no significant differences in intrasubject variability across gender and vowel type. The data were used to compute cutoff values that represent the amount of variability that would be considered within normal limits. These normal data can be used for comparison when assessing and monitoring the phonatory abilities of individuals with voice disorders.
Internal voice sensitivities in opera singers.	To control their voices, singers rely not only on auditory feedback but also on proprioceptive feedback supplied by internal voice sensitivities (IVS). IVS, which are essentially pallesthetic (vibratory) and kinesthetic (muscular), provide singers with precise landmarks for controlling their emission. This means of control is more reliable than auditory feedback in which the voice is substantially modified by the acoustics of the environment.
Vocal breaks from the modal to falsetto register.	The study offers measurements of the vocal breaks occurring from the modal to the falsetto register in an untrained barytone. The breaks were achieved by increasing the expired airflow. An analogy with a labial pipe served as a help. The voice phenomena were divided into three regions. In the region of low modal frequencies (A-e) a simultaneous sounding of both the modal and falsetto registers was investigated. This was registered perceptually as vocal roughness. Under special conditions a subharmonic tone was produced. In the medium frequency region (e-g1) the vocal breaks occurred. The break intervals occupied the mean value of about a quint on the modal tone e. With increasing modal frequency, the break intervals decreased. In the high-tone region (g1-e2) only the falsetto register could be produced.
Comparison of aerodynamic and electroglottographic parameters in evaluating clinically relevant voicing patterns.	The purpose of the present study was to identify one or more aerodynamic or electroglottographic measures that distinguish among voicing patterns that are clinically relevant for nodule pathogenesis and regression: a presumably pathogenic pattern (pressed voice), a neutral pattern (normal voice), and two presumably therapeutic patterns (resonant voice and breathy voice). Trained subjects with normal voices produced several tokens of each voice type on sustained vowels /a/, /i/, and /u/. For each token, maximum flow declination rate, alternating current flow, and minimum flow were obtained from inverse-filtered airflow signals, and closed quotient and closing time were obtained from electroglottographic signals. The results indicate that for /a/ and /i/ (but not for /u/), the closed quotient provides a sensitive tool for distinguishing the voice types in physiologically interpretable directions. Further, post-hoc analyses confirmed a direct relationship between the closed quotient and videoscopic ratings of laryngeal adduction, which previous work links to nodule pathogenesis and regression.
Laryngostroboscopy]	Videostroboscopy has become an essential examination for the assessment of vocal function. The authors describe and review the development of this technique with an analysis and discussion of its indications and results.
Contextual variation of the vowel voice source as a function of adjacent consonants.	The contextual effects of voiced/voiceless stops on the voice source of an adjacent vowel were examined for the first vowel in 'CVCV utterances in German, English, Swedish, French, and Italian. The principal analysis technique involved interactive inverse filtering and parameterisation of the glottal waveform in terms of a four-parameter voice source model (the LF-model). This analysis procedure was supplemented by measures from narrow-band spectral sections of the speech output and by oral airflow recordings which allow inferences about the relative timing of glottal and supraglottal gestures. Results indicated that the voiced/voiceless nature of the consonant does yield differences in the voice source of the vowel. The most striking effects were found in the context of voiceless consonants, and cross-language differences did emerge in terms of directionality and degree. Extensive anticipatory effects were found for Swedish and for some speakers of English. Preceding the voiceless stop the vowel becomes increasingly breathy-voiced, and it would appear that the glottal abduction gesture is anticipated very early in the course of the vowel. Italian exhibited a similar tendency, though to a considerably lesser degree. The German data, on the other hand, showed certain strong carryover effects: Following the voiceless aspirated stop there was extensive breathy voicing. French showed little contextual variation in either direction. Rather surprisingly, the observed effects were not directly correlated with, or predictable from, the phonetic categories involved (voiced, voiceless unaspirated, and voiceless postaspirated). These results yield insights into the control parameters which may be involved in regulating voicing oppositions in these languages. Whereas the anticipatory effects observed might be consistent with a "timing" model of glottal control, the carryover effects cannot be explained in terms of timing alone and suggest that differences in tension settings of the laryngeal musculature may also be implicated.
Acoustic analysis of diplophonia: a follow-up report.	Additional information on the physiology of the diplophonic speech produced by an adult female is provided. Direct endoscopic examination of the subject's laryngeal mechanism showed her diplophonia was produced by exerting differential tension on her vocal folds. The ventricular folds were not directly involved.
Voice research: so what? A clearer view of voice production, 25 years of progress; the speaking voice.	The past 25 years has yielded an impressive growth in our knowledge of vocal function. Interdisciplinary research cooperation in areas of laryngeal histology, vocal aerodynamics and acoustics, vocal fold vibratory characteristics, neurolaryngology, and phonatory models has led to a clearer view of voice production. This article offers a brief review of the progress that has been made in our understanding of the speaking voice and relates this knowledge to clinical practice. The importance of utilizing voice research to confirm traditional management techniques and to develop new physiologically based management approaches is also stressed.
Infraglottic aspect of canine vocal fold vibration: effect of increase of mean airflow rate and lengthening of vocal fold.	The mucosal upheaval (MU), where the mucosal wave starts and propagates upward, appears only when the vocal fold vibrates. The location of the MU histologically and the effect of changes in mean air flow rate (MFR) and vocal fold length on occurrence of the MU were studied in twelve excised canine larynges. The lower surface of the vocal fold was marked to serve as a landmark for subsequent study. Cricothyroid approximation was performed to lengthen the vocal fold. After taking high-speed pictures or recording stroboscopic images from the tracheal side, a small cut wound was made at the mark. This wound served to compare the position of the MU with the histologically identified location of the mark. The larynx was then sectioned in the frontal plane. Before lengthening the vocal fold, the MU occurred on the area where the lamina propria became thinner and where the muscular layer neared the epithelial layer. After lengthening the vocal fold, the MU actually shifted medially compared with its original position. The subglottic area surrounded by the bilateral MUs became longer and thinner. Whether or not complete glottal closure during a vibratory cycle was achieved did not alter these findings. In contrast, with a fixed vocal fold length the MU appeared more laterally as MFR increased, but, based on the relation with the mark, its location on the vocal fold did not change from its original position before increase of MFR.
The Revised Australian Fiberscopic Profile.	The Australian Fiberscopic Profile (AFP) was developed for use in a previous study of normal voices to provide standard documentation for examining the larynx under continuous light. The AFP is being used currently in five specialized voice clinics in Australia to collect data on dysphonic voices. After use with 40 clients it became obvious that a revision with clearer definitions of the parameters was needed to make it a more useful clinical tool.
Characteristics of normal larynges under flexible fiberscopic and stroboscopic examination: an Australian perspective.	The purpose of this study was to investigate the structure and function of larynges of 35 subjects with normal voices. Volunteers aged between 20 and 50 years with no history of voice disorders or laryngeal surgery, no current allergies, no formal voice training, and no hyperactive gag reflex were required to perform various vocal manoeuvres that were carried out under continuous and stroboscopic light. An assessment form was devised to record the condition and function of the larynx. The videotapes of the procedure were rated by experienced judges. The Australian Fiberscopic Profile was devised to record the relevant parameters under continuous light. Videostroboscopic ratings were carried out using the Bless protocol rating. High interjudge agreement was found across the two rating profiles.
Inverse filtering applied to upper airway sounds.	Inverse filtering is a digital signal processing technique which may be applied to speech-like sounds to remove resonances introduced by upper airway cavities to leave a residual signal which is, in principle, spectrally flat and strongly related to the excitation source. The filter parameters, normally computed by a form of linear prediction analysis, are indicative of the frequencies and bandwidths of the resonances. This paper briefly outlines the principle of inverse filtering and describes two applications in the study of upper airway sounds for diagnostic purposes. The first application is concerned with the non-invasive measurement of variations in upper airway dimensions which occur with changes in posture. Results show that differences in the resonance frequencies caused by changes in posture can be measured, these being of the order of about 10% in normals. The measurement of such changes is known to be useful in the assessment of patients with sleep apnoea. The second application concerns the evaluation of vocal tract abnormalities resulting from infection in the larynx. Parameters derived from the residual are believed to be indicative of the existence and severity of a hoarse voice. Results have been obtained which support this theory.
Acoustic analysis of induced vocal stress by means of cognitive workload tasks.	The purpose of this study was to determine the acoustic effects on voice of three tasks of cognitive workload and their possible relationship to stress. Acoustic analysis was used to measure stress and workload in four experimental tasks and two experiments. In the first experiment, subjects performed cognitive workload tasks under a stressful condition, performing the tasks as rapidly as possible without errors and with the knowledge that any errors committed would reduce their grade in a course. The second condition was to perform the same tasks but without the condition of stress related to the final grade. Four testing conditions were included. One was a baseline measure in which subjects spelled the Spanish alphabet. The second was the reading of a tongue twister, the third was the reading of a tongue twister with delayed auditory feedback, and the fourth was spelling the Spanish alphabet in reverse order. In each condition the subjects prolonged the vowel /a/ for, approximately 5 sec. All subjects performed a test to determine their overall level of anxiety. The results suggest that in conditions of experimentally induced stress there is an increase in the fundamental frequency (F0) relative to baseline, an increase in jitter and shimmer, an increase in the high-frequency harmonic energy, and a decrease in spectral noise.
Vocal fold strain and vocal pitch in singing: radiographic observations of singers and nonsingers.	The relationship between vocal fold strain and vocal pitch in singers and nonsingers singing a rising pitch series has been indirectly investigated by means of lateral radiographs. Nonsingers tend to exhibit more strain than singers. To standardize the degree of strain, an index of strain per semitone is proposed. The semitone strain indicates the average amount of strain per 1 semitone of pitch increase or decrease. The index has been shown to be affected by several factors: gender, singing training, singing technique, voice class, age, and status of muscle function. Observations suggest that similar groups of individuals occupy different positions on the stress-strain curve, indicated by their semitone strain values.
Unilateral cricothyroid contraction and glottic configuration.	It is frequently stated that unilateral cricothyroid muscle (CT) paralysis can be diagnosed by physical examination, noting rotation of the glottis, and shortening and vertical displacement of the ipsilateral vocal fold. These signs, however, are inconsistently observed, and there is considerable controversy regarding the direction of glottic rotation. To determine the effects of CT contraction on three-dimensional glottic configuration, we performed computerized tomography on cadaver larynges before and after simulated CT contraction. Radiopaque makers were used to compute distances. Unilateral CT contraction equally increased the length of both membranous vocal folds, and rotated the posterior glottis less than 1 mm. CT contraction neither adducted the vocal processes, nor significantly their altered vertical level. These results suggest that unilateral CT paralysis cannot be diagnosed on the basis of any clinically apparent change in glottal configuration.
Laryngeal rebalancing for the treatment of arytenoid dislocation.	In almost every type of functional laryngeal operation a successful result hinges on the surgeon's ability to control the muscular and ligamentous forces that act upon the vocal folds. Most of the time these forces are small in relation to the manipulations and resections performed. Occasionally, the forces are significant relative to the problem encountered, resulting in a failed surgery. Of all the many conditions that fit in to this latter description, perhaps the best example in arytenoid dislocation. Dislocation of the arytenoid is usually secondary to trauma with the majority of reported cases resulting from some type of anesthetic misadventure. Two types of dislocation have been described, anteromedial and posterolateral, each with a different mechanism of causation. This paper concerns itself with the more common anteromedial variety and its treatment using botulinum toxin.
Ultrasonographic examination of the pharynx and larynx of the normal dog.	Real-time ultrasonographic examination of the canine larynx was performed in 12 normal dogs using a 7.5-mHz mechanical sector scanner combined with a stand-off. A variety of breeds and ages were examined. All examinations were performed in nonsedated, conscious animals. Transverse scans were found to provide the most reliable and interpretable images. Identification of laryngeal structures included the epiglottis, laryngeal and cricoid cartilages, and the vocal cords. In conscious animals, abduction and adduction of the vocal cords associated with respiration could be identified if the animal was made to pant during the examination. Movement of the vocal cords could also be quantified by pulse-wave Doppler recording. In all animals, recordings were made during inspiration only, with muscular vibration at a rate less than 0.1 m/s.
