The impact of pollution on the voice.	Pollution is responsible for the presence of toxic substances and conditions throughout our environment. Inhalation of toxic pollutants may affect the voice adversely by direct laryngeal injury, by causing pulmonary dysfunction that results in voice maladies, or through impairments elsewhere in the vocal tract. Ingested substances--especially those that have neurolaryngologic effects--may also adversely affect the voice. Non-chemical environmental pollutants such as noise may also be responsible for voice abnormalities. Most of the information about the effects of pollution on the voice is anecdotal. Equipment and techniques that permit valid, reliable voice research have recently become available; and studies on the impact of pollution on communication, and specifically on voice, should be encouraged.
Inhaled corticosteroids: hazardous effects on voice-an update.	Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) have become the prevalent treatment in asthmatics. Hazards to voice are under-recognized. A total of 38 patients with voice complaints associated with the use of ICS were assessed by 79 strobovideolaryngoscopy (SVL) examinations, 24 single and 14 multiple SVL. Hoarseness and dysphonia were the primary reasons for referral. The ICS initially used most frequently was Advair Diskus (fluticasone propionate and salmeterol-inhalation powder-[IP]) in 22 patients, followed by Flovent (fluticasone propionate inhalation aerosol-pressurized metered-dose inhaler-[PMDI]) in 11. Duration of ICS usage varied from 2 weeks to 4-5 years. Higher dosage and frequency of use exacerbated problems. Hazards to voice previously unrecognized by real-time indirect mirror or fiberoptic laryngoscopy were identified by meticulous attention to SVL abnormalities. There was essentially no difference in occurrence of abnormalities whether analyzed from the perspective of the initial 38 or all 79 examinations. These included abnormal mucosal wave symmetry/periodicity (76-63%), phase closure (74-63%), glottic closure (63-59%), mucosal wave amplitude/magnitude (50-35%), supraglottic hyperactivity (39-25%), mucosal quality (34-34%), and glottic plane (10-5%). Candidiasis of the larynx was infrequently observed. Fluticasone ICS were a cause of steroid inhaler laryngitis, and the best treatment was their avoidance or cessation. Further prospective studies ideally might include SVL documented as a pretherapy baseline and then repeated in each ICS patient who developed hoarseness/dysphonia.
Fundamental voice frequence during normal and abnormal growth, and after androgen treatment.	A simple treatment was shown to be suitable for clinical measurement of fundamental voice frequency. Basal frequency (SFF) and lowest frequency (LF) were determined in 374 normal subjects aged 6 years to adulthood. SFF fell between ages 8 and 10 years in boys (from 259 to 247 Hz), but not in girls (253 Hz). LF fell between ages 6 and 10 years in boys (from 234 to 203 Hz) and girls (from 230 to 218 Hz), and a sex difference appeared. In puberty, parallel to pubic hair (PH) development, a gradual fall of SFF and LF occurred in both boys (to 100 and 90 Hz, respectively) and girls (to 213 and 180 Hz). As a group, young hypopituitary children and girls with Turner's syndrome had a high SFF, and prepubertal boys with delayed maturation a low SFF. In some children with prenatal growth failure, SFF was abnormally high. The girls with Turner's syndrome exhibited a high, though individually variable, sensitivity of voice to androgen; their voices became lower before the appearance of any other masculinising effects. The instrument is useful for characterisation of growth failure syndromes and stages of puberty. It is particularly recommended for monitoring an undesirable effect on the voice during androgen treatment.
Communication deviations in alcoholics; a pilot study.	Impairments in speech, language, voice and hearing were observed in 14 of 15 alcoholics in treatment.
Virilization of the voice in post-menopausal women due to the anabolic steroid nandrolone decanoate (Decadurabolin). The effects of medication for one year.	In a prospective study the effects on the voice of nandrolone decanoate super-imposed on cyclical hormonal replacement therapy (HRT) given to post-menopausal women suffering from a severe form osteoporosis were compared with the effects of HRT alone. Comparing the experimental group with the control group, after one year of medication in the experimental group a higher percentage of patients had: a lower fundamental frequency during speech, a loss of high frequencies and an increase in voice instability and creakiness. The lowering of the frequencies and the increase of instability can be explained by histological changes in the vocal cords and by problems in the adaptation to these histological changes.
Voice changes in women treated for endometriosis and related conditions: the need for comprehensive vocal assessment.	Hormonal treatments which have an androgenic effect have the potential to cause vocal changes. The changes in vocal fold structure and voice quality are considered to be irreversible. To date, studies have documented subjective vocal changes or documented single cases without detailed, baseline voice assessments. The impact on laryngeal function of women taking these androgenic treatments requires further detailed, objective assessment. The need for increased awareness of the actions of androgenic hormones on womens' voices, and the benefits of a thorough voice assessment are discussed.
