Peer led HIV/AIDS prevention for women in South African informal settlements.	South African women who live in informal settlement communities are at high risk of HIV/AIDS infection due to their poor economic and social status. Prevention programs must include methods for improving their social conditions as well as their sexual risk behaviors. Members of Partners trained 24 women from informal settlements to lead HIV/AIDS education workshops for 480 residents. When these participants reached out to their neighbors, this participatory community-based approach resulted in providing HIV/AIDS prevention messages to more than 1,440 residents. Program leaders from three settlements said in focus group discussions that results from this social influences peer led approach demonstrated that women residents are a valuable resource in providing effective HIV/AIDS prevention programs to South Africa's most vulnerable residents.
A virtual reality system for the training of volunteers involved in health emergency situations.	In order to guarantee an effective and punctual medical intervention to injured people involved in health emergency situations, where usually both professional and non-professional health operators are involved, a fast and accurate treatment has to be carried out. In case of catastrophic or very critical situations, non-professional operators who did not receive proper training (volunteers are among them) could be affected by psychological inhibitions. Their performances could slow down in such way that would affect the quality of the treatment and increase both direct and indirect costs. Our virtual reality system that is currently in use at the health care emergency center of San Martino Hospital in Genoa, Italy, has been designed and developed to check health emergency operators' capabilities to adopt correct decision-making procedures, to make optimal use of new technological equipment and to overcome psychological barriers. Our system is composed of (1) a high-end simulation PC, whose main functions are execution of the main software module, rendering of 3D scenes in stereo mode, rendering of sound, and control of data transmission from/to VR devices; (2) a low-end control PC, which controls the VR simulation running on the simulation PC, manages medical emergency simulation scenarios, introduces unexpected events to the simulation and controls the simulation difficulty level; (3) a magnetic-based motion tracking device used for head and hand tracking; (4) a wireless pair of shutter glasses together with a cathode ray tube wall projector; and (5) a high-end surround sound system. The expected benefits have been verified through the design and implementation of controlled clinical trials.
Volunteering in the developing world: The 2003-2004 Sterling Bunnell Traveling Fellowship to Honduras and Cambodia.	One of the goals of my Sterling Bunnell Traveling Fellowship, sponsored by the American Society for Surgery of the Hand and the American Foundation for Surgery of the Hand, was to serve the poor in developing countries. I had the unique opportunities to work in Honduras and Cambodia, 2 countries with rich cultural heritage residing at opposite ends of the world. This report describes my observations and my experiences in these 2 countries.
Teaching public access defibrillation to lay volunteers--a professional health care provider is not a more effective instructor than a trained lay person.	Survival improves in witnessed out-of-hospital cardiac arrest if the victim receives bystander-initiated cardiopulmonary resuscitation and rapid defibrillation (BLS/AED). The European Resuscitation Council has a simple programme to teach these life-saving skills that require no previous experience of automated external defibrillators (AEDs). To be able to implement the use of AEDs widely, many instructors are needed, and therefore, lay persons may also be used as trainers. The purpose of this randomized study was to compare lay volunteers trained by a lay person with those trained by a health care professional using the Objective Structured Clinical Examination (OSCE).
Modeling instructor preferences for CPR and AED competence estimation.	Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and automated external defibrillator (AED) skills competency can be tested using a checklist of component skills, individually graded "pass" or "fail." Scores are typically calculated as the percentage of skills passed, but may differ from an instructor's overall subjective assessment of simulated CPR or AED adequacy.
Feeding the homeless.	Nurses have a unique role in addressing homelessness, an issue of vital national concern. The management and organizational expertise of nurses can be key elements to coordinating community resources to assist the homeless. The authors describe the design and implementation of a community meal program for the homeless.
Lessons learned from Indonesia: an outline.	The U.S. response to the December 26, 2004 tsunami in Indonesia heralded modifications of our responses to previous natural disasters, modifications that were highly successful and should be refined and repeated. These included seamless hand-off of responsibility from a line response unit to medical; the use of civilian medical practitioners working closely with military and public health service personnel aboard a Navy vessel; close prior communication and planning with the local medical, governmental, and U.N. establishment ashore before the arrival of the military medical unit; and with both line and medical units working closely in support of established ashore U.N. agencies instead of performing independent actions. The success of this total approach was unquestioned, and the lessons learned should be utilized fully in planning future disaster responses, both foreign and domestic.
"Just-in-time" mental health training and surveillance for the Project HOPE mission.	Immediately before the first sailing of the USS Mercy/Project HOPE relief mission to Southeast Asia, the mission leadership initiated presailing orientation and training and a program of survey-based health surveillance for mission participants. The training and surveillance efforts included a focus on mental health aspects of the mission.
Can older adult volunteers serve effectively to improve asthma management for children? Experience Corps Baltimore.	The present study was conducted to determine whether older adults can learn and retain information on asthma and play a role as community health workers to teach children about asthma. A total of 36 older adults and 28 students in grades K-6 participated. Pre-tests and post-tests were administered to participants. Improvement in older adult scores after training was significant (p = .001), and improvement persisted through the conclusion of teaching sessions (p = 0.001). The increase in lower student scores was significant (p = 0.050). Results suggest that older adults can learn and retain asthma information and schoolchildren can learn asthma-related information taught by older adults.
Relationship between personality traits, job satisfaction, and job involvement among Taiwanese community health volunteers.	To understand the relationship between job involvement, job satisfaction, and personality traits among health volunteers in one Taiwan community. It is not easy to retain voluntary workers as part of health programs even though they have been trained. Previous research has shown that in order to increase job involvement, volunteers must effectively fulfill their needs to achieve and obtain job satisfaction.
Results from the national hospice volunteer training survey.	Although the role of volunteers is at the heart of hospice care, little is known about hospice volunteer training and volunteer activity.
Philanthropies croisées: a joint venture in public health at Lyon (1917-1940).	Since the end of the First World War the Rockefeller Foundation has spearheaded a large-scale programme in the field of education for the health professions (doctors and nurses). In several countries throughout the world, but with its efforts concentrated on Europe, it has financed schools, constructed information networks, granted research scholarships and awarded training bursaries. In so doing it has not, however, been in the business of propagating an irresistible "American model," nor has it pursued a huge undertaking in disinterested aid. Through an attempt to contextualize these programmes, to bring to light the existence of common reference points, to retrace the work with local participants and to appraise cleavages within the philanthropic apparatus, this article proposes a fine-grained reading of the role of the Rockefeller Foundation at the Faculté de Médecine (Faculty of Medicine) and the Ecole d'Infirmières et d'assistantes sociales (Training School for Nurses and Social Workers) in Lyon between 1917- and 1940. It analyses these institutions in terms of the transactions, negotiations and appropriations that highlight their joint-venture character and it identifies their varied impact.
Examining the long-term racial disparities in health and economic conditions among Hurricane Katrina survivors: policy implications for Gulf Coast recovery.	This study examines disparities in the long-term health, emotional well-being, and economic consequences of the 2005 Gulf Coast hurricanes. Researchers analyzed the responses of 216 Black and 508 White Hurricane Katrina survivors who participated in the ABC News Hurricane Katrina Anniversary Poll in 2006. Self-reported data of the long-term negative impact of the hurricane on personal health, emotional well-being, and finances were regressed on race, income, and measures of loss, injury, family mortality, anxiety, and confidence in the government. Descriptive analyses, stepwise logistic regression, and analyses of variance revealed that Black hurricane survivors more frequently reported hurricane-related problems with personal health, emotional well-being, and finances. In addition, Blacks were more likely than Whites to report the loss of friends, relatives, and personal property.
Functions of standard CPR training on performance qualities of medical volunteers for Mt. Taishan International Mounting Festival.	Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is a sudden emergency procedure that requires a rapid and efficient response, and personnel training in lifesaving procedures. Regular practice and training are necessary to improve resuscitation skills and reduce anxiety among the staff. As one of the most important skills mastered by medical volunteers serving for Mt. Taishan International Mounting Festival, we randomly selected some of them to evaluate the quality of CPR operation and compared the result with that of the untrained doctors and nurses. In order to evaluate the functions of repeating standard CPR training on performance qualities of medical volunteers for Mt. Taishan International Mounting Festival, their performance qualities of CPR were compared with those of the untrained medical workers working in emergency departments of hospitals in Taian.
Infection control in home-based care for people living with HIV/AIDS/TB in South Africa: an exploratory study.	The majority of HIV and AIDS patients in sub-Saharan African countries receive health care services at home. Yet research on infection control in home-based care settings is virtually non-existent. This study explored infection control practices in home-based care in a South African province with a high HIV/TB prevalence. We conducted interviews with 10 managers of home-based care organizations and 10 focus group discussions with 80 volunteer caregivers working in high HIV/TB prevalent communities in South Africa. Findings show that volunteers had insufficient training on infection control. Materials necessary for the maintenance of hygiene and protective equipment were in short supply and the protective equipment supplied was of poor quality. Home-based care patients lived in crowded and poor conditions, and family members were negatively disposed to the use of protective devices. Together, these factors put volunteers and family caregivers at risk of infection with HIV and TB. Health policy should address the training of volunteer caregivers and the regular supply of good quality materials to ensure effective infection control. It is also important to educate families on infection control. Finally, there is a need to integrate HIV and TB control at the community level. 
A patient care training program for volunteers.	Properly trained and interested volunteers can perform basic nursing skills in a clinical setting. Staff development educators should 1) assess the needs of the area; 2) assess the skills of the volunteers available to them; 3) construct goals and objectives for a thorough orientation program geared to people with nonmedical backgrounds; 4) select appropriate course content and methods of presentation based on the framework provided by the goals and objectives and on the regulations governing the institution in which the volunteer will work; 5) implement the course; and 6) evaluate the adequacy and thoroughness of the program and the competency of the volunteers trained. The potential service that qualified and adequately trained volunteers could offer in patient care areas that are understaffed in nursing personnel is great. Similar programs can be used to supply needed assistance in facilities with limited nursing personnel.
The Ankali project: a model for the use of volunteers to provide emotional support in terminal illness.	The Ankali project has provided emotional support to about 250 persons with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, their partners, family members and friends. Volunteers act as a "supportive friend" and allow subjects the opportunity to express their feelings. The project's model easily could be adapted to meet the needs of persons with other terminal illnesses. One of the most important features of the model is the compulsory support-group structure for volunteers.
AIDS: one psychosocial response.	In 1982 only 20 cases of AIDS were recognized in the Chicago area. Today 383 cases are known. The Howard Brown Memorial Clinic provides the 120 surviving individuals and their loved ones with comprehensive and coordinated services ranging from financial assistance to significant other support groups.
Factors affecting satisfaction among community-based hospice volunteer visitors.	Trained volunteers are an essential component in the delivery of care to clients and families facing a terminal and/or life-threatening illness. As the need for hospice care increases, so does the need to increase the number of volunteers available for visiting. Hospice of London, which is a community based hospice, proposed that volunteers who felt satisfied would remain with the organization longer, thereby, decreasing the costs associated with training new volunteers and enhancing the ability of the agency to provide high-quality volunteer client matches. Accordingly, a survey was conducted in August 1992 to determine which factors were related to hospice volunteer satisfaction. One hundred and five volunteer were surveyed over the telephone. Results demonstrated a positive correlation between satisfaction and feeling like a team member, receiving feedback from staff, feeling valuable and having the volunteer's expectations match the position. Differences in the factors related to satisfaction were noted when the groups were divided by age and gender.
