Correlates of coalition effectiveness: the Smoke Free Class of 2000 Program.	Fifty state and local coalitions that carry out the Smoke Free Class of 2000 program of the American Cancer Society, American Heart Association and American Lung Association were surveyed in 1990.  Almost all (95%) rated themselves moderately or very active and a total of 88 900 second grade teachers were estimated to have received the materials.  The availability of funds, competing priorities, lack of coordination, differences in agency service areas and personnel availability were most frequently cited as areas of concern to the coalitions.  Personnel barriers and formality of coalition structure were independently related to perceived coalition effectiveness and, with the number of elementary schools, to perceived coalition activity.  General recommendations, that were accepted upon completion of the assessment, included (1) formalization of agreements, mission statements, and goals and objectives, (2) attention to group formation and identification, and (3) clarification of national coalition expectations.
Sustaining collaborative problem solving: strategies from a study in six Asian countries.	This paper presents findings from seven case studies of collaborative problem solving.  The cases represent models of large-scale collaborative effort to improve the social, economic or health status of residents in poor communities.  In these examples a variety of organizations worked together:  government, business, voluntary agencies, community groups and people's organizations.  A range of strategies was evident as these entities tried to sustain their collaboration.  Strategies identified included those deployed collectively, those used by an individual organization to maintain its ability to participate and those used to persuade or pressure needed collaborators to become involved or stay the course.  Specific strategies employed and descriptions of their use are presented and comprise a compelling profile of how collaborative problem solving functions.
Teaching C.O.P.D. patients to live more comfortably.	In Florida, programs to help chronic pulmonary disease patients cope better with their illness are now operating in 20 areas. Catalysts for the programs are the Florida Lung Association and local affiliates. The basic resource for this patient education effort is the Staff Manual for Teaching Patients about COPD, developed by the ALA and the American Hospital Association.
Diagnostic criteria for diabetes mellitus and other categories of glucose intolerance: 1997 criteria by the Expert Committee on the Diagnosis and Classification of Diabetes Mellitus (ADA), 1998 WHO consultation criteria, and 1985 WHO criteria. World Health Organization.	To compare 1997 ADA diagnostic criteria for diabetes mellitus and other categories of glucose intolerance/1998 WHO Consultation criteria versus 1985 WHO criteria, we analyzed data from a 75-g oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) performed on 1051 high-risk subjects without medical history of diabetes at Diabetes Screening Clinic, Ramathibodi Hospital, Thailand. There were 372 males and 679 females, aged (mean +/- S.D.) = 50.3 +/- 12.55 years, BMI = 25.62 +/- 4.39 kg/m2. If fasting plasma glucose (FPG) was used as recently recommended then 54.1, 20.4, and 25.5% of cases were classified as normal, impaired fasting glucose (IFG), and diabetic, respectively. In diagnosing diabetes using a full OGTT based on the 1985 WHO criteria as the reference test, FPG > or = 7 mmol/l had a sensitivity of 57.7%, specificity of 97.4%, positive predictive value of 94.0%, and negative predictive value of 76.4%; 53.7% of subjects with IFG had 2-h plasma glucose > or = 11.1 mmol/l. The 1997 ADA/1998 WHO Consultation criteria and 1985 WHO criteria for a full OGTT yield similar overall results. FPG ( > or = 7 mmol/l) was not sensitive for diagnosing diabetes. Moreover, about half of the subjects with IFG were actually diabetic. Therefore, OGTT remains a valuable test in diagnosing diabetes and classifying various categories of glucose intolerance.
Longitudinal Study of the National Kidney Foundation's (NKF) Kidney Early Evaluation Program (KEEP).	In 2000, the National Kidney Foundation implemented the Kidney Early Evaluation Program (KEEP 2.0) to increase awareness of kidney disease among those at highest risk, and improve outcomes through early detection and referral for care. The KEEP 2.0 screening program identified significant numbers of persons with reduced kidney function, with previously undetected kidney disease risk factors, and with inadequate risk factor control. These data support the evolution to KEEP 3.0, which will continue to identify individuals at high risk for kidney disease, and will address the educational needs of health care providers and consumers, given that preventing and managing kidney disease requires their joint effort. Consumers need to embrace lifestyle behaviors that reduce risk, and adhere to medical recommendations in managing their existing conditions. At the same time, providers need to ensure that the latest evidence-based guidelines in diagnosis and treatment are being implemented in their clinical practice. KEEP 3.0 participants will be randomly assigned to one of several educational programs that vary on whether they provide individually tailored or nontailored information, with long-term follow-up for evaluation of clinical outcomes. Tailored programs may be more successful in supporting behavioral change as these consider the individuals' "readiness to change." In addition, participant-identified providers will be randomly assigned to one of several educational protocols designed to provide evidence-based recommendations for clinical and pharmaceutical management of kidney disease and risk factors; these programs vary on whether they require active or passive participation of providers. Analytic evaluations will examine changes from baseline in participant kidney disease and risk factor status during follow-up, and estimate the influence of the various educational protocols on both process of care measures and clinical outcomes.
Humanitarian crises: what determines the level of emergency assistance? Media coverage, donor interests and the aid business.	This paper proposes a basic hypothesis that the volume of emergency assistance any humanitarian crisis attracts is determined by three main factors working either in conjunction or individually. First, it depends on the intensity of media coverage. Second, it depends on the degree of political interest, particularly related to security, that donor governments have in a particular region. Third, the volume of emergency aid depends on strength of humanitarian NGOs and international organisations present in a specific country experiencing a humanitarian emergency. The empirical analysis of a number of emergency situations is carried out based on material that has never been published before. The paper concludes that only occasionally do the media play a decisive role in influencing donors. Rather, the security interests of Western donors are important together with the presence and strength of humanitarian stakeholders, such as NGOs and international organisations lobbying donor governments.
Analysis of interest group influence on federal school meals regulations 1992 to 1996.	Regulatory changes proposed by the US Department of Agriculture in 1994 promised to bring progressive changes to school meals. However, lobbying by interest groups resulted in substantial changes to the final rule. This analysis retrospectively examines the federal school meals policy-making process during 1992 to 1996. Key questions address why the policy changed and what the role of interest groups was in affecting the shape, pace, and direction of the policy. The study provides suggestions for using the experiences of 1992 to 1996 to guide future advocacy efforts and for adapting the approach for application to other food and nutrition policies.
Preventing cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes: a common agenda for the American Cancer Society, the American Diabetes Association, and the American Heart Association.	Collectively, cardiovascular disease (including stroke), cancer, and diabetes account for approximately two-thirds of all deaths in the U.S. and about US dollars 700 billion in direct and indirect economic costs each year. Current approaches to health promotion and prevention of cardiovascular disease, cancer, and diabetes do not approach the potential of the existing state of knowledge. A concerted effort to increase application of public health and clinical interventions of known efficacy to reduce prevalence of tobacco use, poor diet, and insufficient physical activity-the major risk factors for these diseases-and to increase utilization of screening tests for their early detection could substantially reduce the human and economic cost of these diseases. In this article, the American Cancer Society, American Diabetes Association, and American Heart Association review strategies for the prevention and early detection of cancer, cardiovascular disease, and diabetes, as the beginning of a new collaboration among the three organizations. The goal of this joint venture is to stimulate substantial improvements in primary prevention and early detection through collaboration between key organizations, greater public awareness about healthy lifestyles, legislative action that results in more funding for and access to primary prevention programs and research, and reconsideration of the concept of the periodic medical checkup as an effective platform for prevention, early detection, and treatment.
Medical volunteers: guidelines for success and safety.	Many African Americans from a variety of medical specialties are interested in satisfying a life-long dream of visiting Africa by volunteering their services to faith-based and private volunteer organizations doing missionary work on the continent. While this can be an extremely rewarding experience in which measurable good can be accomplished, this path can also be strewn with many obstacles that will affect both the success of the mission and the personal well-being of the volunteer. The American Medical Team for Africa is a nonprofit, tax-exempt, volunteer organization that has been doing medical missionary work in Africa since 1993. This manuscript is a compilation of this 10-year experience that has established some very useful guidelines for insuring a successful and safe mission if you are fortunate enough to have this opportunity.
British Diabetic Association's discussion paper on the role of 'diabetic' foods. Nutrition Subcommittee of the British Diabetic Association's Professional Advisory Committee.	1. Most diabetic foods provide slightly, but not substantially, less energy than comparable non-diabetic products. 2. Many diabetic foods have a higher fat content than their non-diabetic equivalents. This is contrary to the requirements of the 1984 Food Labelling Regulations. 3. Many diabetic products have a relatively high content of protein. 4. In percentage terms, the greatest difference between diabetic and non-diabetic foods remains that of carbohydrate content, particularly carbohydrate other than fructose or sorbitol. On a per portion basis (for instance, per teaspoon of jam) the difference is relatively small and likely to be of minimal practical significance. 5. Diabetic foods cost between 1.5 and 4 times as much as their non-diabetic equivalents. 6. Some ordinary reduced-sugar/low calorie products are preferable to diabetic products in terms of fat and energy content and cost. 7. The promotion and widespread availability of diabetic foods tend to delude patients into believing that these products are advantageous, or even necessary. Their existence also undermines current dietary teaching by implying that people with diabetes cannot eat normal foods. 8. Diabetic foods offer no significant physiological or psychological benefits to diabetic patients and can even be counterproductive to good diabetic control. There is no longer a need for special diabetic foods in the modern dietary management of diabetes.
A private organization and public agency partnership in community health education.	The authors address a unique partnership among private and public organizations, that of the American Red Cross and the Centers for Disease Control of the Public Health Service. The partnership stimulates an integrated community response to preventing and controlling human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) at the local level. The partnership channels information and provides education to local communities through the efforts of volunteers and staff members. Information is made available as well through other partnerships established under the cooperative agreement between the American Red Cross and the Centers for Disease Control. These partnerships include other national organizations, such as the National Leadership Coalition on AIDS, the National Association of People with AIDS, the National Urban League, and the National Council of La Raza. Education and information messages are designed to complement and be consistent with information and messages from the Public Health Service through the National AIDS Information and Education Program and the "America Responds to AIDS" public information campaign. The objectives are to mobilize local community support for efforts for HIV infection and AIDS prevention and services, as well as to heighten public awareness of the issues.
Improving community support for HIV and AIDS prevention through national partnerships.	If the transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is to be prevented, the environment in which people live should predispose them to engage in and sustain safe behaviors. Too often in public health, the range of organizations that make up that environment are overlooked, and prevention strategies are limited to familiar medical and public health institutions. Improvement in public health does not occur in isolation, apart from the other institutions of society--and so it is with the HIV-AIDS epidemic. Education; business and labor; religion; government; voluntary, civic, and social organizations; and the media can all serve as facilitators or as barriers to creating the environment--at the national, regional, State, or local level--that will prevent and control the spread of HIV infection and AIDS and support the needs of those already infected. Collectively, they become a comprehensive HIV prevention network with access to and influence on the total public. One of the most significant benefits of this network is the multiplier effect on the limited resources of public health. Therefore, as part of its HIV and AIDS prevention strategy, the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) has developed national partnerships to involve the leadership of business, labor and industry, religious institutions and organizations, and voluntary organizations in HIV and AIDS prevention and service. Some of these partnerships are federally funded, others are not. The national partnership program described in this paper has produced increased resources for HIV education and services and has demonstrated the synergistic benefits resulting from public and private cooperation in addressing the HIV epidemic.
Bridging uncharted waters in Georgia: Down Syndrome Association of Atlanta outreach to Latino/a families.	Receiving the news that your newborn child has Down syndrome is difficult for most parents; difficulties which are compounded by language and cultural barriers for immigrant Latino/a families. The metro Atlanta area has shown a large increase in this population in the last 10 years, and increasing numbers of Latino/a parents with children with Down syndrome are coming in contact with the health care system. Experiences and observations regarding the formation of a Latino/a support group for parents of children with Down syndrome in Atlanta are described. In addition, efforts to integrate these Latino/a parents into a parent education conference sponsored by the Down Syndrome Association of Atlanta are also recounted. Finally, reflections upon the lessons learned and individual and organizational changes that occurred as a result of the process are discussed.
Benefits from membership in cancer patient associations: relations to gender and involvement.	Cancer patient associations report a growing number of members and increasing possibilities to influence health care, but knowledge about the members' views on the benefit of involvement is scarce. We therefore investigated how members (n = 1742) of Swedish patient associations for breast cancer and prostate cancer rate the benefit of membership for their physical and psychological well-being and social adjustment to cancer. Using a scoring scale, 2/3 of the members reported that membership had benefit for psychological well-being, whereas half of the members reported benefit for physical well-being and social adjustment. Individuals who had been actively involved in board work and/or contact person activities within the associations reported significantly more benefit for all three parameters. Gender differences were observed with men, represented by individuals affected by prostate cancer, reporting greater benefit for all three parameters, although especially evident for psychological well-being. Individuals who obtained membership within two years of diagnosis reported greater benefit for psychological well-being and social adjustment compared to those who became members later. In conclusion, members in patient associations for cancer report benefit particularly for their psychological well-being and actively involved members and men affected by prostate cancer perceive the greatest benefit from membership.
Neonatal screening: trends, debates and consensus]	This study focuses on the social and political implications of the substantial expansion of genetic tests and neonatal screening. The introduction of neonatal screening for cystic fibrosis is one of the significant developments that have fuelled debate on their appropriateness. It has raised a series of questions on the pros and cons, the role of evidence in biomedicine, and the articulation between the therapeutic approach and foetal selection. In this respect France provides an ideal research field as it was one of the first countries to generalize this screening, launched in January 2002. Several questions arise: What were the terms of the debate in France and their underlying logics? How was consensus reached? More generally, what does this screening tell us about policies on life forms today?
The USNS Mercy and the changing landscape of humanitarian and disaster response.	Operation Unified Assistance was the United States' historic response to the tsunami that struck Southeast Asia on December 26, 2004. The USNS Mercy participated in Operation Unified Assistance from January to March 2005. Stationed off the coast of Sumatra, Indonesia, the Mercy's crew consisted of uniformed members of the U.S. Navy and U.S. Public Health Service and civilian members of Project HOPE. The Mercy's participation in Operation Unified Assistance provided a platform and context to study disaster-related psychological processes. Observations of crew members aboard the Mercy suggested similar psychological processes for disaster victims and responders. Responder risk and protective factors; disaster responders as potential psychological casualties; responder selection, preparation, and intervention strategies; and the hospital ship as a research platform are discussed. Such issues are generally relevant to the interaction between civilian volunteers and professional disaster responders.
Update on the clinical management of childhood lead poisoning.	Childhood lead poisoning is still an enormous public health issue in the United States, affecting thousands of children and their families. New evidence suggests that even very low blood lead levels, less than 10 microg/dL, can be associated with neurologic injury. This article discusses characteristics of children at high risk for lead poisoning, unusual sources of lead contamination, and new aspects of lead's pathophysiology. It includes current thinking on the clinical management and prevention of childhood lead poisoning.
Seeking help for disaster services after a flood.	This article describes how the frequency of exposure to a flood is associated with the probability of seeking help from agencies (eg, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Red Cross) that provide disaster-related services. The article also describes the population characteristics for the people who are most likely to seek help for disaster services.
Domestic violence in a genitourinary medicine setting--an anonymous prevalence study in women.	Domestic violence (DV) affects around one in four women in the UK. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of DV and the associations with sociodemographic and sexual behaviour variables in female attendees of an inner-city genitourinary (GU) medicine clinic. In this cross-sectional survey, 177 of 380 women (46.6%) disclosed a history of abuse and 17.4% reported DV in the preceding 12 months. Women with a history of a sexually transmitted infection (STI) were more likely to have experienced DV at some point in their lives (odds ratio [OR]=2.39; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.58-3.63). Logistic regression analysis revealed that being black compared with white, (OR=1.7; 95% CI: 2.4-12.5) current cohabitation with a partner (OR=2.24; 95% CI: 1.06-4.75), increasing number of sexual partners in the last year (OR=1.24; 95% CI: 1.01-1.5) and consumption of illicit drugs (OR=2.05; 95% CI: 1.02-4.11) were significantly associated with DV in the last 12 months but age, current occupation, history of STIs, age of coitarche and condom use were not. DV was common in this GU medicine clinic population and associated with STIs. We recommend that health practitioners undergo training to increase awareness of the links between partner violence and sexual health problems.
NGO management and health care financing approaches in the Eastern Democratic Republic of the Congo.	The role of cost-sharing in health care is a crucial, yet contentious issue. In conflict situations, cost-sharing becomes even more controversial as health and other institutions are failing. In such situations, NGOs manage health programmes which aim to aid populations in crisis and improve or at least sustain a deteriorating health system. This study looks at the issue of cost-sharing in the wider context of utilization rates and management approaches of three NGOs in the chronic, high-mortality crisis of the eastern DRC. Approaches to increase access to health care were found to exist, yet cost-recovery, even on the basis of maximum utilization rates, would only partially sustain the health system in the eastern DRC. Factors external to the direct management of NGO health programs, such as the wider economic and security situation, local management structures, and international donor policies, need to be taken into account for establishing more integrated management and financing approaches.
Functions of the Rheumatism League Advisory Service in the care of patients with polyarthritis]	A social worker at the Swiss League against Rheumatism describes her role as a mediator between arthritic patients and doctors and between arthritics and employers. She describes some of the hazards involved in taking the step from complete financial independence to being at the full mercy of the social insurance scheme. She also gives examples of her day to day work at the Rheumatism Advisory Centre.
Reported practice behaviors for medical care of patients with diabetes mellitus by primary-care physicians in Pennsylvania.	To compare the American Diabetes Association standards for the medical care of diabetic patients with reported care patterns.
Advocacy for foster families in the United States facing child abuse allegations: how social agencies and foster parents are responding to the problem.	Response to a 1989 national survey in the United States revealed pioneer efforts of a few state foster care agencies and foster parent associations to assist foster parents facing child maltreatment allegations. Most agency policies and procedures, however, reflect little awareness or understanding of the issue for foster parents; prescribe abrupt and potentially deleterious action; omit important foci; and appear to be strongly influenced by considerations of agency legal liability. Specific changes are recommended in recognition of the issue; revision of policy and procedures governing agency response to maltreatment reports against foster homes; and development, evaluation, and dissemination of more constructive response models.
Consumer health information and the not-for-profit health agency.	Driven by increasing consumer demand, not-for-profit health agencies are responding by providing accurate, current information about the disorders they deal with. A case history of the information service at the National Multiple Sclerosis Society and the role of the health sciences librarian in the development of such information centers is described. The librarian, as information provider in the health agency setting, obtains professional advisory support, thus assuring delivery of the most responsible information to the constituency represented by the organization. An overview of the decision-making process for development of such a service is provided, including a description of the Cuadra STAR integrated online system. This system offers an infinite number of databases with immediate access to cross database searching of pertinent internal files and standard library records. A random survey of consumers, based on questioning repeat callers, has indicated an overwhelmingly positive response to this service.
Disaster management. Organizations and academic perspective.	The world has to cope with the results of an increasing number of disasters. If the planning and preparation for these disasters are to be effective, then national and international organizations are necessary to integrate the sources of advice and relief. Studies of disaster management have consistently highlighted coordination of resources as an essential element of effective response. These organizations, both governmental and voluntary, aim to do just that, and awareness of them and their work will add support.
Effectiveness and acceptability of medical abortion provided through telemedicine.	To estimate the effectiveness and acceptability of telemedicine provision of early medical abortion compared with provision with a face-to-face physician visit at a Planned Parenthood affiliate in Iowa.
Prevalence of metabolic syndrome and prediction of diabetes using IDF versus ATPIII criteria in a Middle East population.	This study investigates the prevalence and predictive value of metabolic syndrome in Abu Dhabi, using data from the population-based, programme, 'Weqaya'. The Weqaya screen included family history of cardiovascular disease (CVD), CVD risk factors, random blood glucose (RBG) and HbA1c. Those not previously diabetic but at high risk of diabetes (RBG ≥11.1 mmol/l or HbA1c ≥6.1%) and randomly selected normal subjects were followed-up with fasting glucose, oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT), HbA1c and fasting triglycerides. In 760 subjects, 325 (42.8%) were male with a mean age of 41.9 years (SD 13.8). Using World Health Organisation (WHO) criteria, 149 (20.2%) were newly diagnosed diabetics. Using International Diabetes Foundation (IDF) and Adult Treatment Panel III (ATPIII) criteria, metabolic syndrome was present in 29.0% vs. 31.5% of non-diabetics, 63.4% vs. 64.2% with impaired glucose handling and 78.6% vs. 79.8% with new-onset diabetes using OGTT (P<.001). IDF criteria better predicted pre-diabetes and diabetes (OR 3.4 P<.001; OR 6.4 P<.001, respectively); ATPIII criteria better predicted high CVD risk scores (OR 13.6 P<.001). Whilst IDF and APTIII definitions provide similar prevalence rates, they differentially predict prediabetes, diabetes and CVD. This ongoing study will enable the longitudinal investigation of the development of diabetes and cardiovascular events in this population.
The relationship between two performance scales: New York Heart Association Classification and Karnofsky Performance Status Scale.	Performance status is used to quantify the well-being and functional status of people with illness. Clinicians and researchers from differing fields may not instinctively understand the scales, typically disease specific, used in other disciplines.
Management of infections pre- and post-liver transplantation: report of an AISF consensus conference.	The burden of infectious diseases both before and after liver transplantation is clearly attributable to the dysfunction of defensive mechanisms of the host, both as a result of cirrhosis, as well as the use of immunosuppressive agents. The present document represents the recommendations of an expert panel commended by the Italian Association for the Study of the Liver (AISF), on the prevention and management of infectious complications excluding hepatitis B, D, C, and HIV in the setting of liver transplantation. Due to a decreased response to vaccinations in cirrhosis as well as within the first six months after transplantation, the best timing for immunization is likely before transplant and early in the course of disease. Before transplantation, a vaccination panel including inactivated as well as live attenuated vaccines is recommended, while oral polio vaccine, Calmette-Guerin's bacillus, and Smallpox are contraindicated, whereas after transplantation, live attenuated vaccines are contraindicated. Before transplant, screening protocols should be divided into different levels according to the likelihood of infection, in order to reduce costs for the National Health Service. Recommended preoperative and postoperative prophylaxis varies according to the pathologic agent to which it is directed (bacterial vs. viral vs. fungal). Timing after transplantation greatly determines the most likely agent involved in post-transplant infections, and specific high-risk categories of patients have been identified that warrant closer surveillance. Clearly, specifically targeted treatment protocols are needed upon diagnosis of infections in both the pre- as well as the post-transplant scenarios, not without considering local microbiology and resistance patterns.
Community-based AIDS service organizations: challenges and educational preparation.	Acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) has been recognized as the health care challenge of the 1980s. Community-based AIDS service organizations have emerged to meet this challenge by providing critical services to people with AIDS at a time when other health and social service systems were slow to respond. Results of a nationwide survey indicate that social workers are fully enmeshed in these new community health care agencies, perform a variety of social work and administrative functions, and face challenges to professional self-awareness. Social work educators need to maintain a strong liberal arts and professional foundation base, and add information about community-based AIDS service organizations to the existing health care curricula.
Psychosocial and ethical issues of AIDS health care programs.	The psychiatric, psychosocial, and ethical considerations in the design and evaluation of health care programs for AIDS patients and others with HIV infection are described in this article. The responsibilities of health care providers are considered in the context of the history and epidemiology of AIDS, previous responses of the health care delivery system, and the concerns of the general public. General guidelines for program development are set forth; these guidelines embody ethical principles, the role of education in altering the behavior and attitudes of patients and health care workers, the optimal levels of and precautions for infection control, and the evaluation of a patient's competency and judgement. Several examples of the use of these guidelines to resolve difficult policy issues arising in the treatment of patients with AIDS or HIV infection are also provided.
Sudden cardiac arrest in Israel: factors associated with successful resuscitation.	Out-of-hospital cardiac arrests were studied in Israel from 1984 to 1985. More than 3,500 patients in cardiac arrest received paramedic care. Eighty-three percent of cases were caused by underlying heart disease. Overall, 17% of patients with arrest caused by heart disease were admitted and 7% were discharged from the hospital. There was a wide variation in the percent discharged among the 15 paramedic service areas, ranging from 0% to 13%. Factors associated with successful resuscitation included witnessed collapse, rhythm of ventricular fibrillation, short interval from collapse to cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and delivery of advanced cardiac life support, collapse at public location, and bystander initiation of CPR. Improvements in survival are likely to result if CPR is more frequently and promptly initiated and the time to arrival of definitive paramedic care can be improved.
Career paths of physicians who received an American Cancer Society Regular Clinical Fellowship.	The authors conducted a survey of American Cancer Society Regular Clinical Fellowship recipients from 1975 to 1976 and 1985 to 1986 and directors whose programs were awarded fellowships in 1985 to 1986. The survey ascertained the career paths taken or planned by the surveyed fellows, program directors' estimates of the career paths chosen by their programs' fellows from the last 5 years, and to elicit opinions on the role of the fellowship program. Response rates exceeded 70% across the three groups. The survey found that there has been a shift toward full-time academic oncologic practice and away from community oncologic practice by fellows. Program directors indicated the fellowship program afforded more benefits to fellows than fellows perceived, with the exception of the contribution to fellows' salaries. Program directors and fellows agreed on the most important aspects of a fellowship program (support a year of otherwise unavailable training and require exposure to research) but were in less agreement on other characteristics.
Community programs for children with rheumatic diseases.	There is an evident need for both qualitative and quantitative expansion of services to children with rheumatic or connective tissue diseases. These are necessary for diagnosis, amelioration, rehabilitation and reconstruction at the physical level. They are equally important for the development of appropriate and gratifying career and other biopsychosocial goals and for the achievement of them. Two model programs have been described. Such programs should be designed to accommodate local and regional conditions within the broad context of comprehensive care. Numerous governmental and private agencies are available to assist in this process, but it is still dynamic and evolutionary.
Nursing and the voluntary association. Origin, development and collaboration.	This article identifies the mutual help group as a mechanism to enhance support services in the community. This type of voluntary association should be used as referral sources for patients and family members. It is through promoting the collaborative efforts of professionals patients, family, and friends that the nurse can contribute to the mental health needs of the community.
Smoking intervention: combination therapy using nicotine chewing gum and the American Lung Association's "Freedom from Smoking" manuals.	The smoking cessation efficacy of a two-session group program using the American Lung Association's "Freedom from Smoking" self-help manuals, nicotine gum, and brief, repeated professional supervision was estimated in an uncontrolled clinical trial. Of the 39 participants, 12 (31%) remained cigarette free for 1 year, and 4 others (10%) had not smoked during the 3 months prior to the 1-year follow-up. Claims of cessation were verified by expired-air carbon monoxide measurement. Nearly all successful abstainers were able to achieve 48-hr cessation during their first week using the gum. This finding suggests that nicotine gum is best used to help the smoker quit abruptly, rather than as an aid in a tapering-off strategy. This study's smoking intervention program appears to provide a relatively low-cost method of improving the success rates among smokers who wish to quit.
Survey of 3,000 unwanted pregnancies.	A survey of 3,000 unwanted pregnancies disclosed two main populations differing in age, marital status, and contraceptive practice. Failure to use contraception accounted for two-thirds of the pregnancies. More than half of the patients were married women or single women in stable relationships, but many single women faced their predicament alone, without help from partner or parent.Some evidence is given of valid needs which could not be met by existing N.H.S. facilities.
A review of the concerned parent movement in the United States of America.	Parent groups of various sizes, structures and emphases, whose common goal is to prevent drug use among young people, have grown rapidly in recent years throughout the United States of America. There are now more than 4,000 formal parent organizations striving to achieve a drug-free life for young people. The parent groups have unified into a nationwide parent movement, which has become the most influential force for the prevention of drug abuse in the country, affecting public laws, policies and attitudes. The parent groups are undertaking various activities within such areas as prevention, treatment and drug law enforcement to deal with problems of drug abuse. The leaders of the movement are predominantly volunteers, representing a variety of backgrounds. Such leadership has been able to ensure co-operation with social and public health services, and other agencies concerned. The parent movement has proved successful in formulating policies that are conducive to the prevention and reduction of drug abuse, and the recent decline in drug abuse has, to a certain extent, been attributed to the movement.
The role of non-governmental organizations in the prevention and reduction of drug abuse: the Philippine experience.	A wide range of non-governmental organizations are involved in the prevention and reduction of drug abuse in the Philippines. The numerous activities and substantive achievements of non-governmental organizations in combating the problems of drug abuse are manifestations of their commitment to and involvement in an avowed partnership with the Government to promote care for young people and quality of life in general. The Dangerous Drugs Board, the Government's policy-making and co-ordinating body, has facilitated and encouraged the development of existing approaches and strategies and, in co-operation with non-governmental organizations, has made drug-abuse prevention programmes more viable and relevant. This co-operation strengthened agency relationships, encouraged resource-sharing and generated a more balanced approach towards programme planning and implementation. The various government services, in co-operation with non-governmental organizations, have adopted the models and strategies that are action-oriented activities, primarily intended to promote positive values, attitudes, self-development, creative productivity and skills of young people.
The role of Chinese traditional medical practice as a form of health care in Singapore--II. Some characteristics of providers.	A survey of 19 voluntary institutions providing Chinese traditional medical services in Singapore investigated their organisation, the types of medical services provided, patient volume, and the characteristics of the physicians working there. This paper reports on the findings of the survey.
A review of oral cancer screening and detection in the metropolitan Detroit cancer control program.	In summarizing the experience of the twenty-seven months of the oral cancer screening and detection program the data indicate: 1.) Cancers were detected at earlier stages than is reported nationally. Further investigation is needed to determine whether there is a correlation between early detection and increased survival. (Kaufman 1980). 2.) The detection of fifteen precancerous lesions is significant in that intervention may have precluded malignant transformation. 3.) Of those found with oral cancers, eight were symptomatic and two were asymptomatic, while in the premalignant group five were symptomatic and seven were asymptomatic. On the basis of these data, it appears that the symptomatic group chose the screening program as a pathway of entry into the medical system. The motivation for this choice requires investigation. Possible hypotheses are: screening by a registered dental hygienist and in a familiar setting was less threatening than by a physician or dentist in a formal medical setting. The reputation of the MCF, as a center of excellence in cancer control, may have contributed to the willingness to be screened. 4.) The incidental detection of five skin and three laryngeal cancers was an aid to cancer control. 5.) The program successfully trained and utilized registered dental hygienists in oral cancer screening thereby demonstrating an economical use of professional health resources. Follow-up is needed to ascertain whether their training is successfully applied in private practice. 6.) Efforts to reach the high risk population were less productive than expected because, while target screening sites serviced heavy drinkers and smokers, their populations were sometimes less than 40 years-of-age. This finding suggests a need for more refined strategies for accessing high risk populations.
Volunteers ease suffering in Thailand hospital.	As thousands of Cambodian refugees idly wait to be resettled in other countries or to return to Cambodia, volunteer medical personnel are providing them with the medical care and education that they so desperately need.
A comparison of attenders at antenatal classes in the voluntary and statutory sectors: education and organisational implications.	this study sought to identify whether differences existed in the demographic details of clients attending each of three types of antenatal classes: those provided at a large inner city hospital, and those provided in the voluntary sector by National Childbirth Trust (NCT) and Active Birth teachers. The aim was to establish whether there is an overlap in provision of antenatal education which might warrant a rationalisation of services.
New departures in epilepsy care: an epilepsy liaison service.	Epilepsy care in the UK is patchy, fragmented and poorly coordinated. Primary care management is appropriate for many people with epilepsy but there are practical difficulties in delivering care at this level which renders the service that patients get far below the best they could receive. Epilepsy care in a primary setting is often not audited: patients managed purely in a primary setting may be denied access to recent advances in diagnostic techniques and therapies for epilepsy. As healthcare becomes more consumer led, purchasers of epilepsy care [largely general practitioners (GPs)] must be more aware of what they need to purchase to improve care for people with epilepsy within their own practice. People with epilepsy and their relatives are already beginning to make their own demands and requests for improvement in epilepsy care, both at primary and secondary levels of care: their needs will have to be taken into account. The Birmingham University Epilepsy Liaison Project aims to bridge the gap between primary and secondary care, and provide both advice about audit of epilepsy care and educational materials for the primary care physician. It also provides for better communication between the primary care physician, the patient and secondary and tertiary facilities. We hope, if it fulfils its designed function, that it will provide a model of future care for epilepsy in this country.
Social phobia: the consumer's perspective.	Although social phobia is a treatable condition, it remains a stepchild in the health care system. Consequently, the majority of sufferers, an estimated 2.4 million American adults, go untreated. The Anxiety Disorders Association of America (ADAA) seeks to lower the barriers to treatment by supporting programs to promote awareness of social phobia among the public and health care professionals. The small minority of patients who do have access to treatment, which generally includes cognitive-behavioral and/or pharmacologic therapy, are able to improve their personal and professional lives and return to productive and satisfying lifestyles. This article describes the breadth of the problem of untreated social phobia, the need for early identification and treatment, and the significant improvements in patients' lives that can be achieved with professional care.
Woman abuse and pediatrics: expanding the web of detection.	Efforts to increase the medical care system's responsiveness to victims of domestic violence have been focused on emergency and obstetric/gynecologic care. This paper advocates for expanding the web of detection to include pediatric practitioners. In order to effectively address the issue of domestic violence, medical providers must be linked to community-based resources. Physicians need to understand the complexity of this issue and focus on the process (empowerment) rather than on an outcome (leaving). A broader conceptualization of the battering situation, appropriate medical system response, and specific suggestions for how pediatric providers can inquire about and respond to domestic violence are provided.
The 1997 American Diabetes Association criteria versus the 1985 World Health Organization criteria for the diagnosis of abnormal glucose tolerance: poor agreement in the Hoorn Study.	Recently, the American Diabetes Association (ADA) introduced new diagnostic criteria. These new criteria are based on fasting plasma glucose levels, avoiding the burdensome oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT). We compared the 1997 ADA criteria with the 1985 World Health Organization (WHO) criteria with respect to the prevalence of diabetes and the cardiovascular risk profile in the population of the Hoorn Study
The economic impact of diabetes.	In assessing the economic impact of diabetes for a population, several factors should be considered, including the incidence and prevalence of the disease, the level of development of the health care system, and the population's overall level of economic development. Two different approaches have been used to address the economic impact of an increasing incidence of diabetes. The first approach uses disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) to measure intangible costs associated with diabetes. It combines the number of healthy life-years lost as a result of early mortality with those lost because of disability. The second approach, which has been used more frequently, is the cost-of-illness approach, which includes the concepts of direct, indirect, and intangible costs. A study conducted by the World Bank found that of the 1,362 million DALYs lost to all illnesses in 1990, 7.97 million DALYs were lost because of diabetes. In a 1992 study that assessed the direct costs of treating diabetes in the U.S., the American Diabetes Association used the cost-of-illness approach and found that the estimated total expenditure for 1 year was $45.2 billion. The 1994 epidemiological studies by Zimmet and the World Health Organization include estimates of increased prevalence of diabetes resulting from an increase in population. Estimates of the global cost of diabetes based on these studies reveal that diabetes accounts for 2-3% of the total health care budget in every country; therefore, an increase in diabetes incidence and prevalence translates into a significant economic impact.
Diabetes and the promise of managed care.	The term managed care has a positive connotation to many people and a negative connotation to others. It implies a systematic approach to the provision of care supported by a managed care organization, the underlying values of which are efficiency in care delivery and continuous health improvement of the population being served. The recent advances in knowledge surrounding the treatment of diabetes, the codification of these advances into treatment guidelines, and the significant gap between recommended and real-world treatment patterns all suggest that there is an opportunity for managed care organizations to play a beneficial role in improving the treatment of people with diabetes. Typical strategies used by managed care organizations include dissemination of treatment guidelines and information feedback to providers and patients to suggest diagnostic measures or therapeutic interventions that should be repeated with regularity to maintain or improve the health of people with diabetes. Improvements in population-level measurement of health care quality will increase the focus on preventable long-term complications of diabetes and other chronic diseases and may establish increasingly quantitative quality metrics that should improve real-world treatment patterns. Models exist for a multifaceted approach to improve the care of people with diabetes through such mechanisms; this article reviews the experience of one health plan with such undertakings.
Reducing the burden of diabetes. The National Diabetes Education Program.	The National Diabetes Education Program (NDEP) is a joint initiative sponsored by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases of the National Institutes of Health and the Division of Diabetes Translation of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The program will develop a partnership of public and private organizations and implement educational activities to help reduce the morbidity and mortality associated with diabetes and its complications. Participating public and private organizations include the Indian Health Service, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the American Diabetes Association, the American College of Physicians, the American Dietetic Association, and the American Association of Diabetes Educators. Key program activities will include (1) ongoing public awareness and education (2) and identification and dissemination of existing educational tools and resources for patients and their families, health care providers, and payers and purchasers of health care. The NDEP will also sponsor the development and dissemination of new educational tools and resources, including science-based guidelines, efforts to improve quality and access to diabetes care, and program evaluation.
Current status of education and treatment resources for lymphedema.	Secondary lymphedema (LE) resulting from breast cancer surgery has continued to be an ignored medical diagnosis in U.S. medicine. Subsequently, the majority of women/men undergoing axillary lymph node dissection have not received education in pre- or postoperative LE prevention, causing hundreds of thousands of patients to develop LE. As a result of this ignorance, once the LE develops, these patients receive no or harmful treatment.
Lymphedema: patient and provider education: current status and future trends.	The majority of patients schedules for breast surgery or radiation therapy for breast carcinoma do not receive basic information about the risk of lymphedema or its treatment.
