Prevalence and severity of nausea and vomiting of pregnancy and effect of vitamin supplementation.	Although nausea and vomiting of pregnancy is the most common medical condition during pregnancy, there are many unanswered questions regarding its cause, epidemiologic features and optimal management. The objectives of this study were to ascertain the prevalence of nausea and vomiting in a sample of Canadian women, to characterize the distribution of their severity and to investigate the role of vitamin B6 deficiency in their etiology.
Cryptosporidium parvum: infectivity and pathogenicity of the 'porcine' genotype.	Genetic studies have demonstrated profound differences between the 'porcine' genotype of Cryptosporidium parvum, versus 'human' and 'bovine' genotypes. The study analysed infectivity and pathogenicity of the 'porcine' genotype (CPP-13 isolate) of C. parvum, and compared the results with published data on the 'bovine' genotype (CPB-0 isolate). This was investigated in calves and piglets from commercial herds. Piglets were mildly affected by the CPP-13 isolate, contrary to piglets infected with the CPB-0 isolate, which caused diarrhoea of a mean duration of 3.5 days. CPP-13 produced no or very mild clinical signs in piglets despite the excretion of high numbers of oocysts. Concomitant infection with rotavirus, however, caused a dramatic aggravation of the clinical signs, and 5 of 6 experimentally infected piglets died. CPP-13 appeared to be adapted to porcine hosts as illustrated by the lack of infectivity to 1 experimentally inoculated calf, and the absence of clinical signs, the long pre-patent period (15 days), and the excretion of very low numbers of oocysts following experimental infection of another calf. Thus, in accordance with other molecular studies, our results support the genetic evidence for the existence of a new species of Cryptosporidium adapted to pigs.
Boerhaave's syndrome presenting as a right-sided pleural effusion.	Boerhaave's syndrome is an uncommon condition where there is oesophageal rupture following forceful vomiting, subsequent mediastinitis and is associated with high mortality and morbidity in the absence of therapy. We present a case of Boerhaave's syndrome in a 79-year-old woman who developed a right-sided effusion, an unusual presentation.
Evaluation of gastrointestinal symptoms as primary sign of severe invasive group A streptococcal infections.	Severe invasive infections caused by group A Streptococcus (GAS) are often associated with shock and organ failure. We describe epidemiological and disease related data from the national surveillance of invasive GAS infection in Denmark in addition to three fatal cases that occurred in Denmark in 2002 with gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms as the dominating preliminary signs.
Spontaneous oesophageal perforation as a complication of vomiting in gastroenteritis -- case report.	This is a case report of oesophageal perforation as the complication of a commonly encountered benign disease -- gastroenteritis. A 68-year-old man first presented to the Emergency Department complaining of watery diarrhoea. He was treated and discharged. He re-attended 5 h later complaining of epigastric pain radiating to his back, vomiting bloodstained fluid and persistent watery diarrhoea. Again, he was treated and discharged. He re-attended 3 days later complaining of anorexia, cough, dyspnoea and right-sided chest pain radiating to his back, and subjective weight loss in the previous few days. Chest X-ray revealed right pleural effusion, pneumomediastinum and subcutaneous emphysema in the supraclavicular fossae. Computed chest tomogram and water-soluble contrast swallow confirmed 'spontaneous' oesophageal perforation. Although rare, this entity must be considered in any acutely ill patient complaining of respiratory and gastrointestinal symptoms, especially after recent vomiting.
Impaired water diuresis in a patient with pseudo-Bartter syndrome.	A 32-year-old man was diagnosed as having pseudo-Bartter syndrome due to surreptitious habitual vomiting and to maldigestion related to decayed teeth. His chief complaints were muscle pain and weakness. In this case, metabolic alkalosis, hypokalemia, hypochloremia, increased plasma renin activity and aldosterone levels were noticed with marked decreases in urinary chloride excretion. Creatinine clearance (GFR) and renal plasma flow (RPF) were also decreased. Blood pressure was normal, but the pressor response to angiotensin II was attenuated. Before treatment with 0.9% saline infusion, plasma vasopressin (AVP) was not suppressed sufficiently by lowering the plasma osmolality (Posm) with an oral water load (WL), but it normally responded to a rise in Posm due to hypertonic saline infusion. Moreover, plasma AVP was normally suppressed by WL after the replenishment of saline. Plasma atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) was low before WL, but increased normally in response to WL. However, inconsistent with the normal response in this case, decreases in plasma AVP failed to dilute urinary osmolality and to increase urine flow, irrespective of the levels of plasma ANP. These results indicate that chronic inanition due to surreptitious vomiting causes impaired renal diluting ability through decreases in GFR and RPF, irrespective of the levels of plasma AVP and ANP.
A study of tuberculosis, malnutrition and gender in Sri Lanka.	This study assesses the nutritional status of tuberculosis (TB) patients in Sri Lanka and differences in the nutritional presentation between males and females. In May-June 2002, cases from Colombo hospitals and controls from both the Sri Lankan Air Force Base and audience members at a 'better health' presentation in Colombo were assessed for nutritional status using a modified Standard Global Assessment. Fifty cases and 49 controls were recruited. Nutritional examinations revealed the cases to have significantly lower nutritional values than the controls (body mass index 16.2 vs. 24.0 kg/m(2); arm circumference 20.7 vs. 28.4 cm; muscle wasting [temple 56% vs. 0%; shoulder 46% vs. 0%]). The nutritional history revealed the cases to have higher levels of anorexia, vomiting, nausea and diarrhoea within the preceding fortnight. Differences between the genders were minimal other than an increase of 23 and 19% in the frequency of female cases having suffered with vomiting and nausea respectively. Consequently, both male and female TB patients in Sri Lanka are significantly malnourished. It is recommended that patients receive nutritional support during their treatment, with studies of the exact nutritional deficiencies at the micronutrient level and their effect on the immune system being required.
Total iris expulsion through a sutureless cataract incision due to vomiting.	To present a case of isolated total iris expulsion through a self-sealing cataract incision 2 weeks postoperatively due to vomiting.
Headaches preceded by visual aura among adolescents and young adults. A population-based survey.	Clinical descriptions of migraine preceded by visual aura often include a composite of striking and severe symptoms of several attacks in individual patients, but few studies have characterized the spectrum of such attacks. In a population-based telephone survey of 8920 Washington County, Maryland, residents 12 through 29 years old, the attack rate for visual aura headaches during the week prior to the standardized interview was 3.7% in male and 6.1% in female subjects. Among female subjects, the risk for visual aura headache with tension-type symptoms increased with age, whereas the risk for visual aura headache without tension symptoms decreased with increasing age. No clear age-related patterns were observed among male subjects for either type of aura headache. The severity of visual aura headache with and without tension symptoms increased with age among female subjects, but showed an inconsistent pattern among male subjects except for decreasing disability with increasing age. The median interval between the onset of aura symptoms and the onset of headache (aura interval) was 15 minutes in male subjects and 25 minutes in female subjects, with aura intervals longer than 60 minutes reported by 12% of male subjects and 20% of female subjects. In one of the first large population-based studies to characterize the spectrum of visual aura headache, differing age, gender, and subtype patterns were found.
Boerhaave's syndrome: diagnosis and treatment.	Boerhaave's syndrome, or postemetic rupture of the esophagus,represents one of several etiologies of esophageal perforation. Early diagnosis, which requires both a high index of suspicion and contrast esophagography, is essential for optimal outcome. Primary repair is often possible, although other techniques, such as esophageal exclusion or diversion, may be appropriate in certain circumstances.
Hepatotoxicity due to repeated intake of low doses of paracetamol.	The cases of two patients with fulminant hepatic failure after intake of therapeutic doses (4-8 g) of paracetamol, and who were admitted to hospital for assessment for liver transplantation, are described. In both patients starvation, due to abdominal pain, nausea and vomiting or diarrhoea, was probably contributing to the toxic effect of the drug. One of the patients also had an excessive alcohol intake. Paracetamol should not be prescribed for patients with alcoholism or with low food intake.
Subtle computed tomography abnormalities in cerebral deep sinus thrombosis.	A patient with cerebral deep sinus thrombosis, which was not diagnosed on the first examination, is reported. A 46-year-old woman presented with headache and vomiting. Neurological examination and a brain computed tomography (CT) scan showed no obvious abnormal findings. The patient suffered disturbed consciousness on the day after the examination, and was admitted to our emergency centre. A CT scan and magnetic resonance imaging revealed an ischaemic lesion in the left basal ganglia, suggesting deep sinus occlusion. Anticoagulant therapy was administered. One day after admission, a CT scan showed a haematoma and severe brain swelling in the same region. Cerebral angiography demonstrated a straight sinus occlusion. Intracranial pressure was not controlled with hypothermia, and the patient died 25 days after admission. Review of the initial CT scan revealed subtle, early findings of deep venous thrombosis that were missed on first examination.
Walked in with Boerhaave's....	Boerhaave's syndrome is a transmural rupture of the oesopahgus. It is a rarer, and less well described complication of forceful emesis. The more common complication being a non-transmural Mallory-Weiss tear. Boerhaave's is the most lethal perforation of the GI tract and has a mortality rate between 10 and 50%. It most commonly occurs after indulgence in food or alcohol, particularly in males aged 50-70 years. The well described presentation is of a middle aged man with a sudden onset of severe chest pain in the lower thorax/upper abdomen following repeated retching or vomiting induced by excessive dietary and alcohol intake. However, atypical presentations are common. Presented here is the case of a 26-year-old man who attended accident and emergency department complaining of chest pain. Initial examination was normal. He was subsequently diagnosed with Boerhaave's syndrome. This case highlights the varied presentation of this potentially fatal condition.
Dental erosion in a population of Swiss adults.	The purpose of this study was to determine the prevalence of dental erosion in an adult population in Switzerland. 391 randomly selected persons from two age groups (26-30 and 46-50 yr) were examined for frequency and severity of erosion on all tooth surfaces. Information was gathered by interview about lifestyle, dietary and oral health habits. For facial surfaces 7.7% of the younger age group and 13.2% of the older age group showed at least one tooth affected with erosion with involvement of dentin (grade 2). 3.5 teeth per person in the younger and 2.8 teeth per person in the older age group were affected. Occlusally, at least one severe erosion was observed in 29.9% of the younger and 42.6% of the older sample with 3.2 and 3.9 erosion-affected teeth per person, respectively. 3.6% of the younger age group and 6.1% of the older age group showed slight lingual erosion on the maxillary anterior teeth. Severe lingual erosions were scarce. Data from interviews and multiple regression analyses revealed that acids from beverages are significantly associated with presence of erosion.
Anesthetic management of a patient with post-emetic rupture of the esophagus induced by a foreign body]	Post-emetic spontaneous rupture of the esophagus (Boerhaave's syndrome) is still a life-threatening condition, despite recent advances in thoracic surgery and critical care medicine. Because a case report on anesthetic management of this condition is rare, we report here successful management of a 46-yr-old man with spontaneous esophageal rupture following forceful vomiting. He suddenly developed severe back pain and acute respiratory distress after vomiting during dinner and was brought to our emergency department. Examination on admission revealed an increased respiratory rate of 20 min(-1) with SpO2 97% with a facemask (O2, 3 l x min(-1)), a pulse rate of 100 min(-1), and a blood pressure of 138/88 mmHg. Upper gastrointestinal endoscopy showed a foreign body and CT examination revealed subcutaneous emphysema. He was diagnosed as spontaneous rupture of the esophagus. Emergency T-tube drainage was therefore scheduled. After semi-awake intubation with midazolam, general anesthesia was maintained with O2 (50%), N2O, sevoflurane (2%), and vecuronium infusion. A bronchial blocker was used for one lung ventilation to facilitate thoraco-abdominal approach. A careful attention should be paid to tracheal intubation to avoid any increase in intra-abdominal pressure to prevent further spillage of gastric contents into the mediastinum through the perforation. A transmural tear in the anterior wall of the esophagus was found and the foreign body (boiled meat) was removed. The patient recovered uneventfully and could be extubated on the first day in the ICU. It should be noted that successful management of this disease depends on accurate diagnosis and appropriate choice of treatments.
A case of Boerhaave's syndrome presenting as diffuse left pulmonary infiltrate.	A case of spontaneous esophageal rupture (Boerhaave's syndrome) is presented. The patient was referred from an outside hospital emergency department to Los Angeles County/University of Southern California Medical Center with a history of acute left-sided chest pain immediately after an episode of forceful vomiting. An upright chest radiograph revealed a left hydropneumothorax. The diagnosis of Boerhaave's syndrome was confirmed with the placement of a chest tube and extraction of serosanguinous fluid and partially digested food particles from the left hemithorax. The patient underwent surgical repair and was discharged from the hospital in good condition. Boerhaave's syndrome is extremely rare. The predominant symptoms of chest pain and dyspnea also are found in many common disease entities, making early diagnosis difficult. Delay in diagnosis and treatment results in substantial morbidity and mortality. This case exemplifies the importance of obtaining an upright chest radiograph to make a prompt diagnosis.
Spontaneous perforation of the cervical oesophagus.	A case of spontaneous perforation of the cervical oesophagus is presented. It appears to be the tenth such case in the world medical literature, and the first to be reported from the Southern Hemisphere. The need for awareness of this pathologic entity is stressed, and cold water polydipsia is suggested as a diagnostic marker.
Rupture of the oesophagus during cricoid pressure.	Rupture of the oesophagus occurred during the application of cricoid pressure at induction of anaesthesia when the patient vomited. The patient, who was bleeding from a gastric ulcer, was found to have a lower oesophageal tear which, although repaired at operation, resulted in a fatal mediastinitis.
Small bowel intussusception: an unusual presentation of angioedema.	This article presents a case report of a 13-year-old boy who presented to the Emergency Department with abdominal pain and vomiting. He had a known history of recurrent swelling but no previous abdominal episodes. A computed tomography scan revealed small bowel intussusception and he was scheduled for surgery. The patient had a history of multiple episodes of swelling of extremities, face, and genitalia. The Allergy Consult Service was consulted for perioperative management of his angioedema.
Bulimia, induced vomiting, hypochloremic-hypokalemic alkalosis and fetal distress in the 33rd week of pregnancy. Obstetric and anesthesiologic management]	A 39-year-old primigravida was admitted to the hospital in the 33rd week of pregnancy due to fetal retardation and placental insufficiency, malnutrition, decreased cutaneous turgor, and cardiotocographic (CTG) fetal distress. Body weight had increased subnormally through the 29th week of gestation and had since decreased by 2.5 kg. The following laboratory tests were obtained (normal values for pregnant women in parentheses): serum bicarbonate 50.9 (20-24) mmol/l, pH 7.61 (7.4), PCO2 52.4 (31) mmHg, SaO2 89-91 (greater than 95%); serum sodium 125 (137-145), potassium 1.8 (3.6-5.5), chloride 55 (94-111) mmol/l; colloid osmotic pressure 20.7 (19-22) mmHg. A decompensated hypochloremic-hypokalemic acidosis together with hypovolemic, isotonic hyponatremia was diagnosed and bulimic vomiting that had existed for two decades was discovered as the underlying cause. The acute therapy was aimed at normalization of the fluid-electrolyte status, oxygenation, utero-placental perfusion, and placental-fetal O2 transfer and was carried out under close clinical, biochemical, and CTG surveillance. In addition to the basic measures (lateral tilt position, nasal O2 application, isotonic electrolyte solutions, parenteral nutrition), 158 mmol H+, 240 mmol K+, and 414 mmol Na+ ions were administered. This therapy improved the maternal and fetal parameters continuously (Table 3, Fig. 1). Twenty-six hours following the initiation of treatment, a cesarean section was performed after induction of catheter-epidural anesthesia.
Risk stratification of children being evaluated for intussusception.	Intussusception is the most common cause of intestinal obstruction in young children, and delayed diagnosis may lead to bowel perforation.
Management of nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea during critical illness.	Symptoms are subjective patient experiences that may negatively impact the patient's hospitalization, treatment plan, and quality of life. Critically ill patients frequently experience nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea related to underlying disease, procedures, and medical interventions (eg, medication, enteral feeding, surgery). Optimally, the nurse performs a subjective assessment that explores the patient's perception and impact of these symptoms to develop a comprehensive plan of care. Unfortunately, little evidence is available to guide assessment of nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea in critically ill nonverbal patients. Understanding the disease processes, medical treatments, and pathophysiology of these symptoms will assist the critical care nurse in the anticipation of symptoms and development of a proactive plan to alleviate the symptom-associated discomfort.
Bilateral chylothorax after severe vomiting in a child.	In the etiology of chylothorax, traumas and malignancies are the first two leading causes. Today in pediatric patients, the most common cause of chylothorax includes the complications secondary to cardiothoracic operations. Bilateral chylothorax is rarely observed after severe vomiting leading to increase in intrathoracic pressure. In idiopathic chylothorax, bilateral localization is dominant. A 9-year-old girl who presented to our emergency department with the complaints of dyspnea and back pain following severe vomiting received a diagnosis of bilateral chylothorax. The patient was treated with the insertion of a bilateral chest tube, and pleurodesis was performed in left hemithorax. Examination did not reveal a pathology to this condition, except the vomiting observed 2 days previously after the meal.
Successful "detoxing" from commonly utilized modes of purging in bulimia nervosa.	Bulimia nervosa has many medical complications associated with the different modes of purging utilized by these patients. There also are inherent medical complications associated with chronic purging when these behaviors are abruptly discontinued. These complications experienced by a patient with bulimia nervosa when they decide to cease purging, can be a strong deterrent to successfully treating this disorder. Therefore it behooves care providers to become familiar with these complications in order to skillfully recommend strategies to help overcome the tendency to revert to purging behaviors.
Naproxen with or without an antiemetic for acute migraine headaches in adults.	Migraine is a common, disabling condition and a burden for the individual, health services, and society. Many sufferers choose not to, or are unable to, seek professional help and rely on over-the-counter analgesics. Naproxen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID); its efficacy in acute migraine has not been established by systematic reviews. Co-therapy with an antiemetic should help to reduce the nausea and vomiting commonly associated with migraine headaches.
Gitelman's syndrome with vomiting manifested by severe metabolic alkalosis and progressive renal insufficiency.	Gitelman's syndrome is an autosomal recessive salt-losing tubulopathy showing hypokalemic hypomagnesemic hypocalciuria with metabolic alkalosis and hyperreninemic hyperaldosteronism. This syndrome is caused by mutations in the SLC12A3 gene that encodes sodium-chloride cotransporter expressed at the apical membrane of renal distal convoluted tubule. Symptoms and renal outcomes of Gitelman's syndrome are, in general, mild and benign, and renal insufficiency from Gitelman's syndrome associated with long-standing hypokalemia and volume depletion is extremely rare. Herein, we report a 27-year-old male patient with Gitelman's syndrome who manifested renal failure, hypokalemia, severe metabolic alkalosis and altered mentality. About one year ago, the patient had been transferred to Seoul National University Hospital, because of unsolved hypokalemia, and was diagnosed as Gitelman's syndrome by clinical features and genetic analysis of the SLC12A3 gene. The patient carries a missense mutation at one allele of SLC12A3 gene (c.781C>T, p.Arg261Cys). His mother is also heterozygous for the same mutation and she had a history of hypokalemia. On this admission, the patient had recurrent bouts of vomiting induced by psychiatric eating disorder and showed severe volume depletion with hypotension, azotemia and metabolic alkalosis. Intense hydration therapy and emergency hemodialysis transiently improved his fluid-electrolyte imbalance and renal function. However, renal dysfunction progressively deteriorated despite the medical treatment. Our findings suggest that even in Gitelman's syndrome, constant monitoring for volume status and other comorbid conditions should be employed to prevent progressive renal injury. 
Results of double blind placebo controlled trial to assess the effect of vitamin B6 on managing of nausea and vomiting in pediatrics with acute gastroenteritis.	Gastroenteritis and respiratory tract infections are the most common childhood diseases. Despite the common use of vitamin B6 to control vomiting in children with gastroenteritis, no study has been performed in this field. This study aimed to assess the value of vitamin B6 in the prevention of vomiting in patients with mild to moderate gastroenteritis.
Depression, anxiety, stress and hyperemesis gravidarum: temporal and case controlled correlates.	To evaluate the temporal and case-controlled correlations of anxiety, depression and stress with hyperemesis gravidarum.
Wernicke's encephalopathy in a patient with gastric carcinoma: a diagnosis not to miss.	We describe a case of a patient who presented with a 20-day history of vomiting, generalised weakness and loss of appetite and a 2-day history of altered sensorium. On examination, he was grossly emaciated and there were no palpable lymph nodes. Central nervous system examination revealed nystagmus with bilateral lateral recti palsy and abdominal examination showed mild hepatomegaly. MRI of the brain showed bilateral and symmetrical hypertense signal changes in T2-weighted and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery sequences with diffusion restriction in the paramedian ventromedial thalamus. These findings were compatible with Wernicke's encephalopathy. He was started on thiamine supplementation with which neurological signs improved. An ultrasound of the abdomen showed mild hepatomegaly with multiple hyperechoic lesions and wall thickening of the pyloric antrum. Upper gastroduodenoscopy showed ulcerative lesions involving the antrum, pylorus and duodenum. Biopsy revealed moderately differentiated adenocarcinoma. The patient underwent palliative gastrojejunostomy and was clinically better at discharge. It is important to consider Wernicke encephalopathy in patients with gastric cancer who have acute neurological symptoms. 
Achalasia and pregnancy.	Forty-one women with achalasia diagnosed between the ages of 18 and 45 years were interviewed and 37 of them who had been married at some time were asked to provide details of their fertility and reproductive histories. Thirty-six agreed to do so and were compared with 36 healthy age-matched women. The mean age at the time of study was 44 and the women had been married, on average, for 21 years. The disease developed at a mean age of 27 years and was diagnosed and treated at a mean age of 32 years. For a mean period of 5 years the disease was untreated. There were no significant differences in the number of conceptions or live births before or after the onset of symptoms or during the period when the disease was untreated. In only three of the 20 women who became pregnant after the onset of disease did symptoms become worse. Achalasia during pregnancy is probably best managed by endoscopic dilatation and there is no reason to consider termination.
Rhabdomyolysis and acute renal failure associated with pyloric stenosis.	Rhabdomyolysis and acute tubular necrosis (ATN) are described in a patient with pyloric stenosis in whom severe hypokalemia developed due to repetitive vomiting. Furthermore, the importance of hypokalemia in the development of acute renal failure is emphasized.
Swallowing-induced paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia.	A 54-year-old man had palpitations on swallowing without any esophageal or heart disease. Electrophysiological findings, including an A wave in the high right atrial leads appearing prior to the A wave on His bundle electrogram, revealed that the arrhythmia was paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia originating in an ectopic focus of the atrium with intraventricular aberration. Treatment with verapamil, 120 mg/day, reduced his symptoms in spite of an insignificant decrease in the arrhythmia observed with Holter dynamic electrocardiography.
Statistical analysis of symptoms and signs in pediatric patients with peptic ulcer.	It is not well known which symptoms or signs related to peptic ulcer are crucial for its diagnosis in children. In order to clarify this problem, we evaluated the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictability of 13 ulcer-related symptoms and signs. The data of 160 patients, who were suspected of having peptic ulcer and had undergone endoscopic examinations, were studied. It was significant that five symptoms, i.e., presence of pain in the epigastrium, relationship between the time of pain and that of eating, family history, vomiting, and bleeding, were frequently found in ulcer patients. There was, however, no symptom or sign that predicted by itself precisely the existence of a peptic ulcer. Thus, we computed a discriminant function by combining the data by multivariate analysis. With this score, we could predict the existence of ulcer more precisely. Finally, it was concluded that epigastric pain, food-related pain, vomiting, bleeding, and family history were crucial factors for the diagnosis of peptic ulcer in childhood and that an overall consideration of symptoms and signs was needed for the evaluation of these factors.
The effects of distention and obstruction on the accumulation of fluid in the lumen of small bowel of dogs.	Fluid accumulation in either the obstructed upper or lower intestinal segments of the dog was found in most animals to be negligible. Distention pressures of 25 cm of water tended to reduce fluid accumulation within the intestinal lumen. These studies suggest that if the dog is comparable to man, the intraluminal accumulation of fluid in the obstructed small bowel of man might be due to alterations in blood supply to the intestine, rather than to obstruction per se, or the accumulated fluid originates proximal to the jejunum.
Recurrent atrial fibrillation with nausea and vomiting.	Atrial fibrillation occurred twice during episodes of severe nausea and vomiting in a previously healthy 40-year-old male with new onset of Meniere's syndrome (tinnitus, vertigo, deafness). No organic cause was identified to explain the arrhythmia. Holter monitoring, maximal treadmill stress testing, and sinus node recovery times were normal. Intense vagal stimulation, subsequent bradycardia, and dispersion of atrial tissue refractory period is the likely explanation for this arrhythmia.
A case of cobalamin-dependent methylmalonic acidemia. Biochemical aspects, diagnosis and possible treatment (author's transl)]	A case of methylmalonic acidemia with intermittend homocystinuria is described. Special attention is given to the early symptoms of this inborn error of metabolism, like lethargy, muscular hypotony, poor feeding, ketoacidosis, and recurrent vomiting. Furthermore, the necessary diagnostic steps, the pertinent differential diagnosis (septicemia, duodenal stenosis, other inborn errors of metabolism), and the possible treatment are discussed.
Failure to thrive: diagnostic yield of hospitalisation.	Review of hospital records of 122 infants, aged between 1 and 25 months, admitted to a teaching hospital with the diagnosis of failure to thrive but without an underlying disease apparent at admission, showed that about one-third of them had no diagnosis after evaluation. Thirty-two per cent were thought to have a social or environmental explantation for poor growth, and 31% were given a specific organic or physiological diagnosis. Of the last group, 2 out 3 were diagnosed as having either gastro-oesophageal reflux or non-specific chronic diarrhoea. Vomiting was often associated with organic or structural disease. On average about 40 laboratory tests and x-ray films were performed per infant, but only 0.8% of all tests showed an abnormality which contributed to the diagnosis of the cause of failure to thrive. Our results stress the importance of social and environmental factors as basic causes of failure to thrive, and suggest that admission to hospital and laboratory testing is unlikely to lead to a specific organic diagnose in a child whose failure to thrive is unexplained after careful history taking and a physical examination.
Esophageal obstruction by phytobezoar. Rare complication of gastric bezoar.	We describe a patient in whom a gastric phytobezoar was regurgitated into the esophagus during an episode of vomiting, giving rise to sudden dysphagia. The bezoar remained impacted for 3 days during which time a sever ulcerative esophagitis due to pressure necrosis and secondary infection developed. Healing has been accompanied by esophageal stricture formation which still necessitates esophageal dilatation at intervals.
Profile of the migrainous patients according to drug intakes]	Migraine headache is a common, recurrent and often incapacitating disorder resulting in a substantial loss of work days and productivity, significant consumption of medicines, and considerable economic cost. We performed this study in order to determine the characteristic features of migrainous patients with regular or frequent intake of ergotamine preparations and non steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and the existence of significant differences between both groups. 186 patients were included in the study, 36.6% suffering from migraine without aura and 63.4% from migraine with aura. 24.7% were males and 75.3% females. Mean age of the sample was 35.6 +/- 12.9 years. With regard to medication used for immediate relief of headache, 74.7% patients reported an intake of analgesics and 25.3% ergotamine preparations. In patients with analgesic intake the mean age was significantly lower than in patients with ergotamine for treatment of migraine. When clinic features of these two headache groups were examined, the duration of migraine attacks in the analgesic group was significantly higher (p = 0.0014) than in the ergotamine group, and the severity of migraine was lower (p < 0.05) than in this group. Among associated symptoms, nausea and vomiting were significantly less frequent (p = 0.024) in the analgesic group than in the group of patients with ergotamine intake.
Occipital neuralgia.	The findings in 23 cases of occipital neuralgia are presented. The clinical features of the condition are pain and sensory change in the distribution of the relevant nerve, localised nerve trunk tenderness and a clear response to local forms of therapy. The clinical picture is often complicated by migrainous and trigeminal nerve features and the mechanisms by which these come about are discussed. Occipital neuralgia is generally neglected in both the standard textbooks and the literature. The condition occurs sufficiently commonly to warrant more consideration in the differential diagnosis of head pain than it has received to date.
Acute vomiting.	Patients commonly present to the emergency clinician for evaluation of acute vomiting. The causes of vomiting range from trivial to life-threatening. The clinician must use the history, physical examination, emergency data-base, and abdominal radiographs to determine the severity of the underlying problem and the extent of the systemic side-effects of vomition. Based on this information, a plan can be devised for optimal emergency management of these patients.
Atyptical forms of anorexia nervosa]	The paper is concerned with a description of a special form of nervous anorexia related to the presence of vomitophobia. The disease appears on the background of a somatogenic asthenia as a psychogenic reaction and leads to an expressed vomiting reaction. The vomiting reaction becomes fixated with a habitual form of reaction and eventually leads to an emaciation and a development of a special vomitophobic syndrome (vomitophobia proper, voluantary and involuntary vomiting, limitation in food as a measure against vomiting, depression, special ideas of reference).
Anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. IIi. Somatic complications of purging]	Patients with anorexia nervosa or bulimia nervosa may try to compensate weight gain due to binge eating by purging: vomiting or use of diuretics, laxatives or diet pills. Purging may reduce the body weight through volume depletion, but has hardly any effect on the food uptake. Frequent vomiting is revealed by enlargement of the submandibular and parotid glands and rise of the serum amylase. Use of laxatives leads to electrolyte imbalances, lesions of intestinal mucosa and chronic obstipation. Physical effects of diuretics are dehydration and electrolyte imbalance; oedema may be a sign of their discontinuation. Frequent or major effects of purging are: disorders of cardiac conduction (caused by hypokalaemia), insults and cerebral dysfunction (both due to hyponatraemia). A normal serum potassium concentration does not exclude intracellular hypokalaemia; accordingly, electrocardiography is indicated.
Necrotizing sialometaplasia in two patients with bulimia and chronic vomiting.	The purpose of this report was to present two unusual cases of necrotizing sialometaplasia of the hard palate, in which the patients were suffering from bulimia and chronic self-induced vomiting. It emphasizes the importance of confirming the diagnosis by incisional biopsy and discusses local mucosal trauma as a possible etiologic factor.
