Glutaminergic vagal afferents may mediate both retching and gastric adaptive relaxation in dogs.	We previously reported that intra-4th-ventricular (i.4th.v.) administration of a non-NMDA receptor antagonist, NBQX, abolished vagally induced retching. This study was undertaken to ascertain whether or not the neuronal response in the solitary tract nucleus (NTS) to vagal stimulation and the vago-vagal gastric reflexes induced by non-emetic stimulation are also abolished by NBQX with a similar latency as in the case of retching. Ketamine and thiopental- or chloralose-anesthetized dogs were decerebrated, and the dorsal surface of the medulla was exposed. This study consisted of two series of experiments. In the first series, extracellular neuronal responses in the NTS to pulse-train vagal stimulation were recorded. Effects of NBQX on the neural response and vagally induced fictive retching were observed. In the second series, effects of glutamate receptor antagonists on gastric corpus responses to esophageal or gastric antral distension were observed. Retching was abolished 5-15 min after an i.4th.v. application of NBQX. and the neuronal responses disappeared within 14 min after application in nine of 10 NTS neurons. On the other hand, corpus contractility was inhibited by esophageal distension, and inhibited and/or enhanced by antral distension. While the inhibitory responses disappeared within 17 min after NBQX, the enhanced response remained even after NBQX and vagotomy, but was abolished by i.v. administration of hexamethonium. These results suggest that adaptive relaxation in the corpus, as well as retching, may be mediated by glutaminergic vagal afferents and non-NMDA receptors in the NTS.
Management of postoperative nausea and vomiting in ambulatory surgery.	The management of PONV has improved significantly over the years but remains a frequent occurrence in postoperative patients. Evaluation of individual patient risk and the consideration for prophylactic antiemetic in high-risk populations should reduce these unpleasant symptoms and help direct appropriate clinical strategies. Treatment following failure of prophylactic antiemetic therapy requires knowledge of previously used antiemetics and the time of their administration.
The ups and downs of novel antiemetic drugs, part 2: an illustration.	Novel antiemetic drugs block either neurokinin-1 receptors or serotonin-3 receptors. Research into the neuropharmacology of vomiting is providing insight into the ways substance P and serotonin interact within the central nervous system that could lead to additional applications of neurokinin-1 antagonists for the treatment of depression and stress.
Brugada syndrome-like ST-segment elevation increase exacerbated by vomiting.	The patient was a 53 year-old male who had 3 syncopal episodes over a 6-month period. In the electrophysiological study, ventricular fibrillation (VF) was repeatedly induced by the ventricular extrastimulus method. Intravenous pilsicainide was administered, and the J-point and ST-segment in the right precordial leads became slightly elevated just following drug administration. Five min later, the patient experienced severe nausea and then vomited twice, at which point the electrocardiogram (ECG) showed increased elevation of the J-point and ST-segment. These ECG changes recovered to normal 30 min later. The cause of his syncope was strongly suspected to be related to the VF associated with Brugada syndrome. An interesting aspect of this case was the particular type of J-point and ST-segment elevation that was induced when the patient experienced nausea and vomiting. It is proposed that this phenomenon originated from the vagal stimulation associated with the nausea and vomiting.
CO2 laser supraglottoplasty for severe laryngomalacia: a study of symptomatic improvement.	To investigate post-operative symptom improvement in patients with severe laryngomalacia.
Role of histamine in motion sickness in Suncus murinus.	The levels of histamine (HA) and tele-methylhistamine (t-MH) were determined in five brain regions of Suncus murinus (suncus) and the effects of motion stimulus or drugs influencing the turnover of these amines were studied to elucidate the role of histamine in motion sickness. Shaking the animals for 2 min increased HA contents in telencephalon and diencephalon without significantly changing the t-MH levels. alpha-Fluoromethylhistidine (alpha-FMH), which is presumed to deplete the neuronal HA, tended to raise the HA levels. alpha-FMH slightly alleviated the vomiting response to motion stimulus and suppressed the HA increase in diencephalon caused by shaking. Compound 48/80, which releases HA from mast cells, did not alter the control HA levels, but effectively prevented the motion sickness and completely suppressed the motion-induced rises in HA levels. These results provide further evidence that brain HA plays an important role in the development of motion sickness.
5-HT system in the gut: roles in the regulation of visceral sensitivity and motor functions.	5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is a major transmitter molecule within the gastrointestinal tract. It is contained in enterochromaffin (EC) cells, which form part of the epithelial lining of the gut and in enteric neurones in the submucosal and myenteric plexuses. 5-HT is present in murine mucosal mast cells in the lamina propria and some studies have suggested that human mast cells may also contain 5-HT especially in conditions associated with mastocytosis. The strategic positioning of the enteric and extrinsic sensory innervation in close proximity to these sources of 5-HT, in conjunction with their demonstrated sensitivity to this mediator, suggests the involvement of 5-HT in the transduction of visceral stimuli and reflex responses affecting motor and secretory function. Under physiological conditions, the release of 5-HT from these storage sites may result in the orchestration of reflexes responsible for transit of material along the bowel at a rate that is appropriate for digestion and absorption of nutrients. However, in the pathophysiological state, 5-HT acting together with other inflammatory mediators may cause inappropriate intestinal secretomotor activity and/or initiate sensations such as nausea or discomfort/pain. Current evidence suggests that the bioavailability of 5-HT within the gut wall is altered in a number of post-inflammatory models of gut dysfunction with increased numbers of EC cells and mast cells with increased 5-HT content in proximity to sensory nerve endings, and decreased serotonin reuptake mechanisms. Changes may also occur in the sensory innervation or pathways within the central nervous system. These processes may contribute to pain mechanisms in the irritable bowel syndrome, in which visceral hypersensitivity is a predominant feature and may also contribute to motor dysfunction leading to altered bowel habit.
Long term efficacy of gastric electrical stimulation in intractable nausea and vomiting.	Although the efficacy of gastric electrical stimulation has been reported in short-term studies, there is a lack of data on the long-term improvement of nausea and vomiting by gastric electrical stimulation in patients with delayed or normal gastric emptying.
The orodental status of anorexics and bulimics.	This study aims to assess the dental status of anorexics and bulimics by comparison to age-matched controls. One hundred and eight individuals participated, of which 58 had an eating disorder. This group were further subdivided into bulimics who induced vomiting (33), bulimics who did not vomit (7), and anorexics (18). The caries experience (DMFS), plaque levels, gingival inflammation and buffering capacity of saliva were assessed and total vomiting episodes estimated from the product of vomiting frequency and duration. Statistical analysis (one way ANOVA) revealed no significant differences with most of the dental variables between the eating disorder groups and the controls. A linear association (Pearson correlation coefficient) between vomiting frequency, duration or total vomiting episodes and tooth wear was not found, although the frequency of pathological tooth wear is significantly high in the vomiting bulimic group, especially if the total number of vomiting episodes is greater than 1100.
Innervation of periesophageal region of cat's diaphragm: implication for studies of control of vomiting.	The extent of the region of the diaphragm around the esophagus that displays greatly reduced activity during the expulsive phase of vomiting was determined from electromyographic studies in cats to be about 0.75-1.0 cm from the esophagus. Horseradish peroxidase injected into this region retrogradely labeled motoneurons throughout most of the rostral-caudal extent of the phrenic nucleus, with the exception of caudal C6 and rostral C7. This widespread intermingling of motoneurons that innervate the region of reduced activity with other phrenic motoneurons creates a difficulty for needed follow-up studies of diaphragmatic control during vomiting.
Serum thyrotropin (TSH) responses to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in patients with anorexia nervosa and bulimia: influence of changes in body weight and eating disorders.	Serum thyrotropin (TSH) responses to thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) were studied in 47 women with anorexia nervosa (AN) (group I) and in 11 bulimic patients of normal weight (group II). In group I, TSH responses were low in nine patients, delayed in 32 and normal in six. Patients with a normal TSH response had a lesser degree of anorexia than those with a delayed TSH response. Bulimia and vomiting were more frequently observed in the low response group. The maximum increase in TSH concentrations following TRH administration in the group I patients with vomiting (4.0 +/- 0.90 microU/ml, mean +/- S.E.) was significantly lower than that in the group I patients without vomiting or in normal controls (11.2 +/- 0.82 microU/ml and 11.1 +/- 2.34 microU/ml, respectively). Twenty-five patients with abnormal TSH responses in group I were retested after weight gain. Initially, TSH responses were low in six and delayed in 19. Following weight recovery, responses continued to be abnormal in five of the six and in eight of the 19, respectively. The symptoms of eating disorders continued in all patients with abnormal TSH responses even after weight recovery, whereas patients with normal responses after weight gain recovered from all symptoms. Of 11 patients in group II, six had abnormal TSH responses to TRH; the responses were delayed in four and low in two. Patients with normal responses had a lesser degree of eating disorder, compared with abnormal responders. These observations suggest that abnormal TSH responses in patients with AN were not necessarily due to weight loss alone; rather, they may be related to the eating disorder itself.
Delayed gastric emptying in anorexia nervosa is improved by completion of a renutrition program.	The effects of renutrition on gastric emptying and upper gastrointestinal symptoms were evaluated in 14 anorexia nervosa patients before and after weight gain. A double-isotope technique was used to measure gastric emptying of both the solid and the liquid phases of the meal. Upper gastrointestinal symptoms were frequent before renutrition, occurring in 78% of the patients. Among these symptoms, nausea, vomiting and gastric fullness were correlated well with slowing in gastric emptying of both solid and liquid phases of the meal, which was demonstrated, respectively, in 10 (71%) and nine (64%) of the 14 patients. For the 11 patients who subsequently gained body weight, we observed, without any pharmacological treatment, an improvement of gastric emptying of both solid and liquid phases of the meal in eight (73%) and seven (64%) patients, respectively. Gastric emptying was unchanged in the three other patients who gained very little weight during the time of the study. As gastric emptying improved, so did nausea, vomiting, and gastric fullness. In three patients who had initially gained weight, nausea and gastric fullness recurred, associated again in all cases with a delay in gastric emptying. In conclusion, in anorexia nervosa, delayed gastric emptying, which is a frequent feature and which is well correlated with some of the upper digestive complaints, can return to normal without any pharmacological treatment. In this improvement, psychological assistance may play a role, together with the correction of the malnutrition.
Adaptation and habituation of motion-induced vomiting in squirrel monkeys.	Nonrestrained adult squirrel monkeys were found to be prolific vomiters when rotated in the horizontal plane for at least 1 h with visual cues available. When multiple daily spins were given, monkeys who vomited early during the first session tended to habituate during subsequent rotations. Subjects who vomited late during the first spin tended to vomit increasingly earlier for several days before the trend reverted to habituation. When a single rotation was continued for up to 8 h, emetic waves occurred with a high probability density for about 2 h, then ceased for many hours with an occasional animal exhibiting isolated emetic episodes. Adaptation effects were transient; when retested beyond a week, most subjects vomited in less time than did inexperienced monkeys on their first exposure to rotation. Attempts to confirm the findings using sinusoidal vertical acceleration were unsuccessful because of failure to induce vomiting using this type of motion.
The role of splanchnic afferences of the duodeno-pancreatic zone in vomiting]	The duodenum and pancreas of the cat send splanchnic afferences via the anterior nerve branches. The latter run along the coeliac artery. The stimulation of those pathways induced pattern alteration of the respiratory command signal. After an interruption of phrenic nerve discharge, the respiratory function was mobilized to empty the stomach. It is suggested that the duodenum is systematically involved in all types of vomiting.
Duodenal evacuatory motor disorders in patients with a resected stomach]	The motor-evacuation disorders in the duodenum after resection of the stomach represent one of the main causes of unsatisfactory results of the operation. These disorders have distinct clinical manifestations and all of them result from stasis of the duodenum content. The main cause of duodenostasis is a mechanical obstacle. Reconstructive operations undertaken to restore the duodenal passage and to liquidate all mechanical obstacles give good results.
Stimulation of glossopharyngeal and laryngeal nerve afferents induces expulsion only when it is applied during retching in paralyzed decerebrate dogs.	Stimulation of the oropharyngeal mucosa induces vomiting in humans, however, it has not been seen in animals. Thus, we attempted to induce fictive vomiting by stimulation of lingual and pharyngeal branch afferents of the glossopharyngeal nerve, and afferents of the superior and recurrent laryngeal nerves in paralyzed decerebrate dogs. The stimulation did not induce fictive vomiting when it was applied during eupnea, but induced fictive expulsion when it was applied during fictive retching. Threshold intensity for the induction decreased with the progress of retching.
Function of the lower esophageal sphincter in infants]	Main basal pressure and the deglutition-induced behavior of the lower esophageal sphincter (LES) in 115 infants between the ages of 6 hr and 6 mo were evaluated by continuous perfusion manometry. In comparison to the adult, higher pressures were found, especially in the first weeks and months of life. The relaxation stimulated by the deglutition reflex and the pressure increase following abdominal compression were similar to the responses observed in adults. Singificant differences between vomiting and nonvomiting infants could be determined. From these results we conclude that the vomiting often observed in early infancy results from factors other than the previously proposed hypotonia or neuromuscular underdevelopment of the LES.
Bulbospinal augmenting inspiratory neurons may participate in contractions of the diaphragm during vomiting in decerebrate dogs.	Contradictory results have been reported regarding the participation of bulbospinal inspiratory (BSI) neurons in vomiting contractions of the diaphragm in dogs and cats maintained at low and high end-tidal CO2 levels, respectively. To resolve this discrepancy, effects of CO2 levels on vomiting activities were observed in 159 BSI-neurons of paralyzed decerebrate dogs. About half of the BSI-neurons exhibited a vigorous burst with each fictive retch regardless of the CO2 level and 28 of 51 BSI-neurons produced a burst during the early phase of expulsion. These BSI-neurons were not concentrated in any particular area. While these results do not resolve the above contradiction, they do suggest that some BSI-neurons participate in the vomiting contraction of the diaphragm.
The area postrema and vomiting.	The area postrema (AP) has been implicated as a chemoreceptor trigger zone for vomiting (emesis) for over 40 years. The AP is located on the dorsal surface of the medulla oblongata at the caudal end of the fourth ventricle. It is one of the so-called circumventricular organs that serve as an interface between the brain parenchyma and the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-containing ventricles. The AP lacks a specific blood-brain diffusion barrier to large polar molecules (i.e., a "blood-brain barrier") and is thus anatomically positioned to detect emetic toxins in the blood as well as in the CSF. The AP along with the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus makes up the so-called dorsal vagal complex, which is the major termination site of vagal afferent nerve fibers. Lesions of the AP prevent vomiting in response to most, but not all, emetic drugs. However, the AP is not essential for vomiting induced by motion or by activation of vagal nerve afferents. The role of the AP in radiation-induced vomiting remains controversial. Electrophysiological studies have reported that neurons in the AP increase their firing in response to emetic drugs. Similarly, studies using the 2-deoxyglucose uptake and c-fos expression techniques have shown that the AP is excited by systemic administration of emetic drugs. Activation of the AP probably leads to nausea and vomiting through its projection to the neighboring NTS. The NTS may serve as the beginning of a final common pathway by which different emetic inputs trigger vomiting.
Respiratory interneurons of the lower cervical (C4-C5) cord: membrane potential changes during fictive coughing, vomiting, and swallowing in the decerebrate cat.	The possible roles of interneurons in the C4-C5 cervical spinal cord in conveying central drives to phrenic motoneurons during different behaviour patterns were investigated using intracellular recordings in decerebrate, paralysed, artificially ventilated cats. Eleven cells were tentatively classified as respiratory interneurons since they: (i) could not be antidromically activated from the ipsilateral whole intrathoracic phrenic nerve, and (ii) exhibited large membrane potential changes during eupnea (7.3 mV +/- 3.6, range 2-13.5 mV) or non-respiratory behaviour patterns. Six neurons depolarized in phase with phrenic discharge; four others depolarized during the expiratory phase; one neuron exhibited depolarization during the end of both expiration and inspiration. A variety of responses was observed during fictive coughing, vomiting, and swallowing. The results are consistent with C4-C5 expiratory interneurons conveying inhibition to phrenic motoneurons during different behaviour patterns. The responses of inspiratory and multiphasic neurons suggest that the roles of these interneurons are mode complex than simply relaying central excitatory or inhibitory drive to phrenic motoneurons.
Paraneoplastic gastroparesis]	A 53-years-old woman with bilateral untreated breast cancer is admitted for intractable vomiting. No obstructive gastric disease is found but a marked delayed gastric emptying, suggesting the diagnosis of gastroparesis. No classical cause being demonstrated, the diagnosis of paraneoplastic gastroparesis is proposed. Treatment with cisapride and chemotherapy lead to regression of digestive symptoms and of breast tumor. This uncommon entity, usually described in association with small cell lung cancer, may involve the whole gastrointestinal tract, sometimes in association with abnormalities of the autonomous nervous system. Destruction of the myenteric plexuses by auto-antibodies could be responsible for this pathology.
Nausea, vomiting and thyroid function before and after induced abortion in normal pregnancy.	Thyroid function in early pregnancy has been reported to be slightly different from that in second or third trimester. We assessed thyroid function before and after induced abortion in normal pregnant women. A significant increase in serum Free T4 and a decrease in serum TSH were observed before abortion and these changes, apart from the contemporary significance of serum hCG-beta, were especially marked in pregnant women with nausea and vomiting. On the other hand, an increased level of Free T4 and a reduced level of TSH returned to the normal ranges 7-10 days after induced abortion. Furthermore, serum hCG-beta was significantly reduced. These results suggest that, in normal early pregnancy, thyroid function may be related to serum hCG-beta concentration and its increased level, which induces gestational emesis.
Nissen fundoplication may induce gastric myoelectrical disturbance in children.	Recurrent vomiting with failure to thrive is a common problem in neurologically impaired children. Many undergo fundoplication to control the underlying gastroesophageal reflux, but the results of surgery are not always satisfactory, and postoperative retching may be a major problem. Retching is part of the emetic reflex and is associated with nausea, which is itself associated with disturbed gastric electrical control activity, resulting in a gastric dysrhythmia.
