Chromatographic preparation of a therapeutic highly purified von Willebrand factor concentrate from human cryoprecipitate.	A therapeutic highly purified von Willebrand factor (vWF) concentrate has been prepared from cryoprecipitate by a three-step chromatographic procedure. After solvent/detergent treatment to inactivate viruses, the cryoprecipitate solution was chromatographed on DEAE-fractogel TSK 650 M to separate vWF from most cryoprecipitate proteins, including factor VIII (FVIII) and fibrinogen. A second DEAE-fractogel TSK 650 M was then performed to further purify vWF and to allow concentrating it to over 100 U ristocetin cofactor activity/ml. The last step on immobilized gelatin removed fibronectin and increased the purity of vWF. vWF was recovered with about 18 and 40% yield in antigen and collagen-binding (CB) activity, respectively, from cryoprecipitate. vWF was obtained in an essentially pure state corresponding to a purification factor of over 10,000-fold from plasma. Immunonephelometric and SDS-PAGE analyses of the concentrate did not reveal any detectable cryoprotein contaminants, especially fibrinogen, fibronectin, immunoglobulins and albumin. The content in intermediate- and high-molecular-weight multimers in the concentrate was similar or higher than that of plasma, as the ion-exchanger selectively favored the binding and concentration of the larger multimeric forms while reducing the amount of the smaller forms with abnormal structure and low activity. Other characteristics of the concentrate included a CB activity to antigen ratio of 1.69 and a high capacity (86%) to correct platelet adhesion in a perfusion system. Clinical use of this standardized vWF concentrate has been shown to be efficacious in the treatment of vWF patients.
Stabilization of factor VIII in plasma by the von Willebrand factor. Studies on posttransfusion and dissociated factor VIII and in patients with von Willebrand's disease.	In normal plasma, the ratio of the procoagulant activity of factor VIII (VIII(AHF)) to that of the von Willebrand factor activity (ristocetin cofactor, VIII(VWF)) or factor VIII antigen (VIII(AGN)) is approximately 1, but ratios > 1 (e.g., VIII(AHF) > VIII(VWF) or VIII(AGN)) may be observed in some patients with von Willebrand's disease and in the "late" posttransfusion plasmas of patients with this disorder. The lability of VIII(AHF) was studied by incubating plasma, diluted 1:10 in imidazole buffer pH 7.1, for 6 h at 37 degrees C. With normal plasmas, 77+/-12% (SD) of the original VIII(AHF) activity remained after incubation. VIII(AHF) was labile (e.g., 35-55% residual activity) in the "late" posttransfusion plasmas (VIII(AHF) >> VIII(VWF)) of a patient with von Willebrand's disease, but not in the "early" posttransfusion plasmas (VIII(AHF) approximately VIII(VWF)). VIII(AHF) was also labile in the (base-line) plasmas of three patients with von Willebrand's disease in whom the ratios of VIII(AHF) to VIII(VWF) were 4.4 to 8.1, but not in the plasmas of four other patients in whom the ratio was approximately 1. The electrophoretic mobility of factor VIII antigen was increased in two of the three patients with labile VIII(AHF). In both of these patients, and in the late posttransfusion plasmas, labile VIII(AHF) activity could be stabilized by the addition of purified von Willebrand factor (lacking VIII(AHF) activity) or by hemophilic plasma, but not by plasmas of patients with severe von Willebrand's disease. Thus, VIII(VWF) may serve to stabilize VIII(AHF) and this might explain the posttransfusion findings in von Willebrand's disease.
A novel core fractionation process of human plasma by expanded bed adsorption chromatography.	Current plasma fractionation technology combines ethanol precipitation with packed bed chromatography. We have developed a novel core fractionation process comprising five expanded bed adsorption (EBA) chromatographic steps on high-density modified agarose/tungsten carbide beads. Plasma was first chromatographed on two diethyl amino-ethyl (DEAE)-tungsten carbide agarose adsorbents (respective mean particle diameters of d(v)(0.5)=190 and 37 microm) to isolate at 50 to 80% recovery a fraction containing 4 to 7 IU/ml factor II (FII), factor IX (FIX), and factor X (FX) (specific activity >1 IU/mg) and another enriched in FVIII and von Willebrand factor (vWF) (approximately 1 IU/ml and 0.6 IU/mg, respectively). The flow-through was adsorbed on 4% agarose-10% tungsten carbide beads coupled with an acidic mixed-mode ligand to isolate an 80% pure immunoglobulin G (IgG) at a 93% step recovery. A highly purified alpha1-antitrypsin was isolated at 95% step recovery by adsorbing the flow-through on 4% epoxy-crosslinked agarose-10% tungsten carbide adsorbent material coupled with a cationic ligand. Isolation of 98% pure albumin was achieved at a 99% step recovery by pH 4.5 adsorption of the flow-through on 6% agarose-10% tungsten carbide beads coupled with an acidic mixed-mode ligand. EBA may represent a feasible alternative core plasma fractionation tool.
Chromatography of the VIII/vWF complex on dextran sulphate sepharose.	The applicability of Dextran Sulphate (DS) agarose in the purification of the VIII/vWf complex from cryoprecipitate was investigated. The elution profiles indicate high affinity of the VIII/vWf complex for the matrix. With application of combined salt/pH gradients good resolution of VIII/vWf from most of the applied proteins can be achieved. VIII/vWf normally elutes as a single component (70-90% vWf:Ag and vWf:RCo) with modest yields of factor VIII (30-40%) VIII:C and 50-70% VIII:Ag) providing calcium ions are present. Addition of L-lysine, Histidine and Arginine (all 1.0M) inhibit binding of proteins to the matrix. Alternatively, higher yields of VIII:C can be obtained (80% VIII:C and 100% VIII:Ag) by the application of L-lysine gradients (0-0.6M) but with loss of resolution from Fn and slight dissociation of VIII:C from vWf:Ag.
Localization of a collagen-interactive domain of human von Willebrand factor between amino acid residues Gly 911 and Glu 1,365.	A collagen-binding domain of von Willebrand factor (vWF) has been identified in the central part of the molecule by comparing the binding properties of vWF and Staphylococcus aureus V-8 protease-generated vWF fragments with collagen. The binding of purified human vWF to human type III collagen was found to be specific. At saturation, 38 to 50.2 micrograms of vWF bound per milligram of collagen. Scatchard plots derived from binding isotherms demonstrated the presence of at least two classes of binding sites. Purified vWF was digested with S aureus V-8 protease into two complementary fragments (SpIII and SpII). SpII, the C-terminal end of vWF (amino acid residues 1,366 to 2,050), was totally devoid of affinity for collagen. Contrarily, purified SpIII, the N-terminal part of vWF (residues 1 to 1,365), totally displaced vWF binding and specifically bound to collagen. At saturation, 25 to 45 micrograms of SpIII bound per milligram of collagen. Scatchard plots demonstrated the presence of a single class of binding sites. SpIII was further digested with the same enzyme to generate SpI, a 52-kilodalton fragment from the C-terminal part of SpIII (residues 911 to 1,365). Spl induced a dose-dependent inhibition of both vWF and SpIII binding to collagen. A series of six monoclonal antibodies against SpIII that completely abolished vWF and SpIII interaction with collagen also bound to SpI. In conclusion, SpI extending between amino acid residues 911 and 1,365 of vWF contains a specific site that interacts with human type III collagen.
Immunoaffinity purification of factor VIII complex.	Murine monoclonal antibodies to human von Willebrand factor (vWf) were immobilised on Sephacryl S-1000. Various solutes were screened for their ability to elute 125I-vWf from the immobilised antibodies. The most effective solutions were then tested to determine which allowed retention of factor VIII procoagulant activity (VIII:C) and activity of vWf measured by platelet aggregation in the presence of ristocetin (Ristocetin cofactor activity R. cof.). Finally, F VIII complex was purified from both plasma and cryoprecipitate by immunoaffinity chromatography under the selected conditions. The product had a specific activity of 45 units of VIII:C per mg of protein and 60 units of R. cof. per mg representing a 4000-fold purification from plasma. The fibrinogen and fibronectin content were each less than 4% of the total protein with vWf accounting for 60% of the total protein in the final product. Multimer analysis of the product showed a similar pattern to normal plasma and contamination by murine monoclonal antibody was less than 300 ng per mg of protein. A novel product is thus obtained containing both clinically relevant VIII:C and R. cof. in a single vial whilst using only one specific monoclonal antibody.
Association of the factor VIII light chain with von Willebrand factor.	Coagulation factor VIII (fVIII) is isolated from porcine blood as a set of three heterodimers because of proteolytic cleavages in the middle, or B region, of the parent single-chain molecule. A single 80-kDa COOH-terminal fragment, the light chain (fVIIILC), is associated with one of three forms of heavy chain (fVIIIHCs) by a calcium-dependent linkage. The purified heterodimers were dissociated using EDTA and fVIIILC, and fVIIIHCs were isolated by high pressure liquid chromatography under nondenaturing conditions. The association of fVIII, fVIIILC, and fVIIIHCs with multimeric human von Willebrand factor (vWF) was studied using analytical velocity sedimentation. A previous study using this method with an intact, single heterodimeric species of fVIII has shown that one molecule of fVIII can bind to each subunit of vWF (Lollar, P., and Parker, C.G. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 17572-17576). fVIIILC bound vWF as judged by the increase in the plateau height and sedimentation coefficient of the fVIIILC.vWF complex compared to vWF at 42,000 x g and by the decrease in the plateau height of the 4.8 S fVIIILC boundary sedimenting at 240,000 x g. Titration of a fixed concentration of fVIIILC with vWF yielded a stoichiometry of one fVIIILC molecule per subunit of vWF. Proteolytic cleavage by thrombin to remove an acidic 41-residue NH2-terminal peptide from fVIIILC completely abolished its binding to vWF. In contrast, no binding of fVIIIHCs to vWF was observed. Additionally, intact fVIII bound to vWF was completely dissociated after proteolysis by thrombin. These data are consistent with the hypothesis that a critical step in blood coagulation is the release of all regions of fVIII from vWF following a single proteolytic cleavage of fVIIILC.
Isolation and characterization of two domains of human von Willebrand factor that interact with fibrillar collagen types I and III.	We have identified four discrete proteolytic fragments of von Willebrand factor (vWF) that define two collagen-binding domains. Two of the fragments tested, T 96 kDa and T 55 kDa, were generated by digestion with trypsin, and two, Fragments I and III, with Staphylococcus aureus V8 protease. The larger Fragment III, a disulfide-linked homodimer, extends between residues 1 and 1365 of the 2050-residue vWF subunit and comprises the sequence of all the others. T 96 kDa, also a disulfide-linked homodimer, extends between residues 449 and 728. T 55 kDa and Fragment I, both single-chain polypeptides, have a partial sequence overlap corresponding to residues 911-1114, and together extend from residue 730 to 1365. The ability of the fragments to interfere with the vWF-collagen interaction was evaluated by measuring inhibition of 125I-labeled vWF binding to fibrillar bovine collagen types I and III. All the four fragments tested inhibited binding. Native conformation was essential for expression of this function; denaturation with guanidine hydrochloride and reduction of disulfide bonds resulted in marked reduction or complete loss, respectively, of the inhibitory activity at all the concentrations tested. Two monoclonal antibodies were prepared, one directed against T 96 kDa and the other against Fragment I. Both antibodies partially inhibited vWF binding to collagen, and their inhibitory effect was enhanced when they were used together. 125I-Labeled Fragment I bound to collagen in a saturable manner, and the binding was completely blocked by both T 96 kDa and T 55 kDa. Thus, we have identified at least two distinct functional domains of vWF that concurrently mediate the vWF-collagen interaction. The two domains appear to share a common recognition site on collagen.
Purification of porcine and human ristocetin-Willebrand factor.	A plasmatic component required for the ristocetin-induced aggregation of platelets has been purified from normal human and porcine plasma by gel filtration (4% agarose) and anion-exchange chromatography (DEAE cellulose). No factor VIII coagulant activity was found associated with the purified human or porcine component. Urea sodium dodecylsulfate electrophoretic analysis of the purified component of both species indicated that the apparent molecular weight with intact disulfides is in excess of 500,000; after disulfide reduction with 2-mercaptoethanol, single components with an apparent subunit molecular weight of 230,000 were observed. Purified porcine ristocetin-Willebrand factor (RWF) co-sedimented in sucrose gradients with the factor present in normal plasma. Amino acid analysis of both human and porcine RWF indicated that all normal amino acids are present, whereas amino sugars were undetected. However, lipid analysis indicated 1% to 2% lipids present, including monoglycerides, di- and tri-glycerides, cholesterol, cholesterol esters, some free fatty acids, and a trace of phospholipid. A single line of identity was observed between normal human plasma and purified human RWF when immunodiffusion plates were run with purified rabbit anti-human RWF immunoglobulins. Antisera raised against human and porcine RWF's do not inhibit the factor VIII coagulant activity of the homologous plasma, nor is "spontaneously occurring" human factor VIII inhibitor neutralized by the isolated material of either species.
Ultracentrifugal analysis of factor VIII and von Willebrand factor in therapeutic preparations.	Plasma and therapeutic preparations of factor VIII (1 recombinant factor VIII and two monoclonally purified plasma-derived factor VIII preparations, Kogenate, and AHF-M and Monoclate, respectively) were centrifuged in a sucrose density gradient, and the fractions were analyzed for factor VIII and von Willebrand factor (vWF). The residual vWF in the monoclonally purified factor VIII preparations sediments more slowly than the vWF of plasma. In the absence of added vWF, the factor VIII in all preparations sediments more slowly than plasma factor VIII. These same preparations of factor VIII added to hemophilic plasma as a source of vWF sediment differently. The addition of either recombinant factor VIII or AHF-M results in sedimentation of the factor VIII with the plasma vFW and in a position indistinguishable from factor VIII in plasma. In contrast, when Monoclate is added to hemophilic plasma in vitro, the factor VIII sediments more slowly than the vWF of the hemophilic plasma. However, 5 min after the infusion of Monoclate into a patient with hemophilia A, the factor VIII sediments with the plasma vWF. These results indicate that the addition of recombinant factor VIII and AHF-M results in random binding to all vWF multimers of plasma, while there is little exchange between the added factor VIII in Monoclate and the plasma vWF in vitro. In contrast, when the Monoclate is infused, there is rapid binding of factor VIII to the plasma vWF.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A role for the C2 domain of factor VIII in binding to von Willebrand factor.	We examined the possibility that the C2 domain, amino acid residues 2173-2332, of factor VIII (fVIII) contains a binding site for von Willebrand factor (vWf) to clarify previous data showing that some monoclonal and human inhibitor antibodies with epitopes in C2 prevent fVIII-vWf binding. We constructed a fusion protein, glutathione S-transferase-C2, which binds to immobilized vWf in a dose-dependent saturable fashion, suggesting that the fVIII C2 domain contains a binding site for vWf. This site was further localized by testing the effect of a synthetic peptide on fVIII-vWf binding. Peptide 2303-2332, consisting of a previously identified phosphatidyl-serine binding site, prevented fVIII binding to vWf, suggesting that the sites for fVIII binding to vWf or phosphatidylserine have some overlap. The effect of anti-C2 domain antibodies further supported these observations. The inhibition of fVIII binding to vWf by monoclonal antibody NMC-VIII/5 IgG or F(ab)'2 (epitope within residues 2170-2327) and by inhibitor antibody MU IgG or Fab' (epitope within residues 2248-2312) was demonstrated by a fluid-phase binding assay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Two monoclonal antibodies with epitopes within amino acid residues 2170-2218 or 2248-2285, which do not overlap the phosphatidylserine binding site, did not have any inhibitory effect. Our data suggest that the previously described antagonistic binding of vWf and phospholipid to fVIII is due to the involvement of some C2 domain amino acids in both processes.
Purification of factor VIII and von Willebrand factor from human plasma by anion-exchange chromatography.	Factor VIII (anti-hemophilia A factor) is isolated from human plasma. Purification is carried out by a combination of precipitation and chromatographic procedures. After precipitation, the first step in virus inactivation is achieved through the effect of a non-ionic detergent such as Tween 80, and a solvent, e.g. tri-n-butylphosphate (TnBP). By subsequent anion-exchange chromatography, a highly enriched product is isolated, consisting of a complex formed by factor VIII and von Willebrand factor (FVIII-vWF). This treatment also removes the virus-inactivating reagents to quantities in the low ppm range. The second step in virus inactivation is aimed specifically at the non-enveloped viruses and consists of pasteurization at temperatures higher than 60 degrees C for 10 h. Through the addition of stabilizers, between 80% and 90% of the initial activity of FVIII is preserved during the modified pasteurisation. Along with the possibly denatured proteins the stabilizers, such as sugars, amino acids and bivalent cations, are subsequently removed by ion-exchange chromatography. The two-fold virus inactivation, by solvent/detergent treatment and subsequent pasteurisation, allows the destruction of both lipid-enveloped and non-enveloped viruses. During the procedure FVIII is stabilized through the high content of vWF. The complex consisting of FVIII and vWF can be dissociated by adding calcium ions. Subsequently both glycoproteins from this complex are separated from one another by further anion-exchange chromatography.
