Feminism and bioethics: an overview.	Despite differences in style, tone, and emphasis, the various schools of feminist thought share a primary concern with the stories and lives of women. This concern gives them distinctive perspectives on medical practice and the field of bioethics.
Expanded availability of investigational new drugs through a parallel track mechanism for people with AIDS and other HIV-related disease--PHS. Notice final policy statement.	The Public Health Service (PHS) is announcing a final policy to make promising investigational drugs for AIDS and other HIV-related diseases more widely available under "parallel track" protocols while the controlled clinical trials essential to establish the safety and effectiveness of new drugs are carried out. The "parallel track" initiative establishes an administrative system designed to expand the availability of promising investigational agents and to make these agents more widely available to people with AIDS and other HIV-related diseases who have no therapeutic alternatives and who cannot participate in the controlled clinical trials.
Bad faith and victim-blaming: the limits of health promotion.	Two models of the relationship between individual behaviour and health status are examined. On the Freedom Model, the individual is presumed to be capable of free choices including many that have important health consequences. Freedom entails accountability. Thus individuals can be held responsible for health conditions that result from choices they have made. To hold otherwise--to refuse to acknowledge the freedom and responsibilities of individuals--is bad faith. On the Facticity Model, behaviour is a result of facts--genetic and environmental--beyond an individual's control. There is little or no freedom; people are the bodies and roles they inherit. Important among these facts is socio-economic position since it determines much of behaviour and resulting health status. Many people who are poor and lack education also suffer from poor health. To blame their poor health on their behaviour is to blame people already victimized by their circumstances. The relationships of these two models to health promotion are explored. Though conflicting in theory, some justice can be done to each model in the practical world of health promotion by appealing to the freedom in individuals in health education and to the facts that shape individuals in other health promotion and health care contexts.
Justice and health care systems: what would an ideal health care system look like?	An 'ideal' health care system would be unencumbered by economic considerations and provide an ample supply of well-paid health care professionals who would supply culturally appropriate optimal health care to the level desired by patients. An 'ideal' health care system presupposes an 'ideal' society in which resources for all social goods are unlimited. Changes within health care systems occur both because of changes within the system and because of changes or demands in and by the 'exterior environment'. Social systems must be in a homeostatic balance. If one component fails to accommodate itself to other forces, needs and interests within the system, the system is imperiled. It is difficult to create a just health care system in an unjust society, just as it is difficult to practise truly ethical medicine in an ethically corrupt system.
Protective truthfulness: the Chinese way of safeguarding patients in informed treatment decisions.	The first part of this paper examines the practice of informed treatment decisions in the protective medical system in China today. The second part examines how health care professionals in China perceive and carry out their responsibilities when relaying information to vulnerable patients, based on the findings of an empirical study that I had undertaken to examine the moral experience of nurses in practice situations. In the Chinese medical ethics tradition, refinement [jing] in skills and sincerity [cheng] in relating to patients are two cardinal virtues that health care professionals are required to possess. This notion of absolute sincerity carries a strong sense of parental protectiveness. The empirical findings reveal that most nurses are ambivalent about telling the truth to patients. Truth-telling would become an insincere act if a patient were to lose hope and confidence in life after learning of his or her disease. In this system of protective medical care, it is arguable as to whose interests are being protected: the patient, the family or the hospital. I would suggest that the interests of the hospital and the family members who legitimately represent the patient's interests are being honoured, but at the expense of the patient's right to know.
The 2000 revision of the Declaration of Helsinki: a step forward or more confusion?	At a time when there was great attention and intense public controversy surrounding clinical (especially multinational) research, the 52nd general assembly of the World Medical Association (WMA) adopted the 5th revision of the Declaration of Helsinki (in October, 2000)-available at www.wma.net. These revisions are the most substantial adaptations since those adopted by the 29th WMA assembly in October, 1975. The commitment to revision of the declaration acknowledged that deficiencies and disagreements in interpretation needed to be corrected and that ethical standards evolve. Nevertheless, this revision process resulted in a controversial version of the declaration. Reports on the revisions have focused mainly on clinical trials that use placebos; but because of the role of the Declaration of Helsinki in the ethics of research, a more thorough examination is needed. Here, we analyse the process of revision and the major changes made to the declaration.
A framework for vulnerability analysis in sustainability science.	Global environmental change and sustainability science increasingly recognize the need to address the consequences of changes taking place in the structure and function of the biosphere. These changes raise questions such as: Who and what are vulnerable to the multiple environmental changes underway, and where? Research demonstrates that vulnerability is registered not by exposure to hazards (perturbations and stresses) alone but also resides in the sensitivity and resilience of the system experiencing such hazards. This recognition requires revisions and enlargements in the basic design of vulnerability assessments, including the capacity to treat coupled human-environment systems and those linkages within and without the systems that affect their vulnerability. A vulnerability framework for the assessment of coupled human-environment systems is presented.
Human organs from prisoners: kidneys for life.	A proposal to allow prisoners to save their lives or to be eligible for commutation of sentence by donating kidneys for transplantation has been a subject of controversy in the Philippines. Notwithstanding the vulnerabilities associated with imprisonment, there are good reasons for allowing organ donations by prisoners. Under certain conditions, such donations can be very beneficial not only to the recipients but to the prisoners themselves. While protection needs to be given to avoid coercion and exploitation, overprotection has to be avoided. The prohibition on the involvement of prisoners in organ transplantation constitutes unjustified overprotection. Under certain conditions, prisoners can make genuinely independent decisions. When it can be reasonably ascertained that they are able to decide freely, society should recognise an obligation to help them implement their decisions, such as when they intend to donate an organ as a way of asserting their religious faith and performing a sacrifice in atonement for their sins.
Knowledge and attitudes of economically disadvantaged women regarding exposure to environmental tobacco smoke: a Michigan, USA study.	Exposure to environmental tobacco smoke (ETS) is a global public health problem which is particularly acute in groups where smoking rates are higher than in the general population. A study was undertaken to investigate knowledge, attitudes and preventive efforts with regard to exposure to ETS in a sample of economically disadvantaged women residing in Michigan, USA.
Appropriateness of quality indicators for older patients with advanced dementia and poor prognosis.	To evaluate the applicability of process-of-care quality indicators (QIs) to vulnerable elders and to measure the effect of excluding indicators based on patients' preferences and for advanced dementia and poor prognosis.
Psychosocial aspects of pain management: a conceptual framework for social workers on pain management teams.	To have a significant impact in the arena of pain management, social workers must be able to articulate social work values and concepts clearly, productively, and compellingly as assets in overcoming identified barriers to pain relief. A literature review concerning vulnerable populations, identified barriers, and related social policies explores alternative perspectives that social workers can bring to a multi-disciplinary team's efforts to improve the delivery of pain management technology. The article offers a beginning framework for discussions about the profession's potential contributions. The goal of these discussions is to contribute to encouraging a more pronounced involvement of social workers in pain management issues.
Sudden infant death syndrome and social deprivation: assessing epidemiological factors after post-matching for deprivation.	As part of the confidential enquiry into stillbirths and deaths in infancy (CESDI), a 3-year population-based case-control study was specifically designed to look at risk factors associated with sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS) after the dramatic fall in incidence. The study was conducted between 1993 and 1996 in five English Health Regions (population 17 million) with parental interviews for each death and four age-matched controls. The aim of this analysis was to investigate the extent to which epidemiological characteristics associated with SIDS were particular to the syndrome or more general markers for socio-economic deprivation. One control was reassigned to each case post-matched for infant age, time of sleep and socio-economic status using components of the Townsend Deprivation Score. The post-matched analysis involved 323 SIDS infants and 323 controls with a similar socio-economic profile. Notable factors significant in the original univariable analysis that became non-significant after post-matching included young maternal age (median: 23 years 4 months SIDS vs. 23 years 11 months post-matched controls), being an unsupported mother (13.6% SIDS vs. 11.1% post-matched controls) and being bottle-fed (56.7% SIDS vs. 55.4% post-matched controls). Other factors, although clearly related to deprivation, such as parental smoking, remained significant in both the univariable and multivariable post-matched analyses.
Effects of glass ionomer sealants in newly erupted first molars after 5 years: a pilot study.	The aim of the study was to investigate the caries-preventive effect of high-filled glass ionomer sealant in newly erupted first molars in a high-risk group. This investigation is part of a larger study amongst eight hundred and thirty-five 6-7-year-old Syrian children.
The relationship between use of NHS Direct and deprivation in southeast London: an ecological analysis.	Little is known about the utilization of NHS Direct by disadvantaged groups, in spite of the service aiming to be 'accessible to all'. This study investigates the relationship between use of NHS Direct and deprivation in one predominantly disadvantaged area.
Children's health-related quality of life, neighbourhood socio-economic deprivation and social capital. A contextual analysis.	Neighbourhood objective socio-economic indicators and community-reported subjective measures of social capital were examined in relation to children's health-related quality of life in the Netherlands. Three different data-sources were used: (1) objective neighbourhood socio-economic indicators, (2) subjective neighbourhood data on social capital, and (3) individual data of a family cohort study, including questions on children's health-related quality of life, and family socio-economic status. Multilevel analyses were conducted using both neighbourhood level and individual level data. Neighbourhood socio-economic status and social capital were associated. Measures of socio-economic deprivation and social capital were both non-specifically associated with children's general health and satisfaction, independent of possible individual-level confounders. However, children's mental health and behaviour were specifically associated with one aspect of social capital, the degree of informal social control in the neighbourhood.
Marginalization and symbolic violence in a world of differences: war and parallels to nursing practice.	Marginalization has been used as a guiding concept for nursing research, theory and practice. Its properties have been identified and updated in 1994 and 1999, respectively. This article re-examines marginalization, considering it to be a concept that changes with pivotal historical events. The events of September 11, 2001, and the war between the US/UK and Iraq are such pivotal events. The notion of the linguistic habitus and symbolic violence as outlined by Bourdieu provide new insights about the dynamics of marginalization. Specifically noted is the marginalization of persons and cultures based on their designation by the current US administration, and as interpreted through mainstream media, as actual or potential 'terrorists'. A parallel situation in nursing is discussed, beginning with nursing's own marginality, related to the dynamics of symbolic violence. Nursing is argued to be vulnerable to having essential words and practices co-opted by dominant institutions and altered in meaning, that is, made incongruent with the discipline's emphasis on core values of confidentiality, equity and care. In response to marginalization and exteriorization those affected can use voice and testimony to 'recreate the centre'. Suggestions for protecting our practices and philosophy are included.
Developing explanatory models of health inequalities in childhood dental caries.	Long-term aim is to determine optimum interventions to reduce dental caries in children in disadvantaged communities and minimise the effects of exclusion from health care systems, of ethnic diversity, and health inequalities.
Impact of a cardiac risk reduction program in vulnerable patients hospitalized with coronary artery disease.	To increase the use of guideline-based pharmacotherapy in vulnerable patients (ethnic minorities and the poor) with coronary artery disease (CAD) through a nurse-based quality-improvement program.
How does childhood economic disadvantage lead to crime?	This study sought to examine the associations between indices of socio-economic deprivation in childhood and later involvement in crime.
Social communication deficits in conduct disorder: a clinical and community survey.	Increasing numbers of children are referred to Child and Adolescent Mental Health Services because of disruptive behaviour. Recent reviews on the origins of conduct problems indicate that the most severe and persistent forms are found predominantly among males with a range of neurodevelopmental vulnerabilities, which are likely to have biological substrates. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that many children who are identified with conduct disorder actually have a primary deficit in pragmatic language skills, of a quality and degree that is similar to children on the autistic spectrum. We hypothesised that pragmatic difficulties may underlie the antisocial behaviour in a proportion of children who are labelled as conduct disordered.
An ecological study of caries experience, school performance and material deprivation in 5-year-old state primary school children.	To investigate whether measures of school performance and socioeconomic circumstances could be used as indicators of caries experience in 5-year-old Wandsworth state primary schoolchildren.
Low-income women's use of substance abuse and mental health services.	This paper examines the utilization of mental health, alcohol, and drug treatment in a sample of low-income women. We analyze data from the Women's Employments Study, a study examining the barriers to employment for welfare recipients, and compare prevalence rates of mental health disorders and service utilization with the National Comorbidity Survey. Fewer than one in five of the respondents with a current mental health and/or substance dependence problem in the Women's Employment Study (WES) received treatment in the past 12 months. A logistic regression model of the association among demographic variables, risk factors, and service utilization in the WES found that having a co-occurring substance dependence and mental health disorder was significantly associated with receiving treatment. Those respondents with an increased number of barriers were significantly less likely to receive treatment. The authors argue that the success of welfare reform may hinge on low-income women's access to and utilization of appropriate services.
The extraordinary vulnerability of people with disabilities: guidelines for oral health professionals.	In the last 40 years, there has been a dramatic shift in living arrangements for people with disabilities from large state institutions to community-based care. This shift has required communities to increase their clinical capacity including oral health care systems. Oral health professionals must be cognizant that the rate of abuse and neglect experienced by people with developmental disabilities and other special needs is at least four times the rate experienced by the general population. These trends have resulted in additional responsibility on community oral health professionals to provide oral health services for many people who formerly lived in state institutions including recognizing and reporting suspected abuse and neglect. Oral health professionals must prepare themselves to successfully carry out these professional responsibilities.
Advocating for medical diplomacy: a conversation with Tommy G. Thompson.	Health Affairs founding editor John Iglehart interviews HHS Secretary Tommy Thompson, who calls for closer integration of health policy and foreign policy, with the aim of improving the lives of vulnerable populations and serving the best interests of the United States. Thompson also discusses the indelible impressions of his travels to Afghanistan, Africa, and Iraq; the Medicare drug discount card program; and more.
Environmental health disparities: a framework integrating psychosocial and environmental concepts.	Although it is often acknowledged that social and environmental factors interact to produce racial and ethnic environmental health disparities, it is still unclear how this occurs. Despite continued controversy, the environmental justice movement has provided some insight by suggesting that disadvantaged communities face greater likelihood of exposure to ambient hazards. The exposure-disease paradigm has long suggested that differential "vulnerability" may modify the effects of toxicants on biological systems. However, relatively little work has been done to specify whether racial and ethnic minorities may have greater vulnerability than do majority populations and, further, what these vulnerabilities may be. We suggest that psychosocial stress may be the vulnerability factor that links social conditions with environmental hazards. Psychosocial stress can lead to acute and chronic changes in the functioning of body systems (e.g., immune) and also lead directly to illness. In this article we present a multidisciplinary framework integrating these ideas. We also argue that residential segregation leads to differential experiences of community stress, exposure to pollutants, and access to community resources. When not counterbalanced by resources, stressors may lead to heightened vulnerability to environmental hazards.
Toxic ethics: environmental genomics and the health of populations.	Dealing primarily with implications rather than foundations, and focusing downstream at the expense of upstream prevention, mainstream bioethics is at a toxic watershed. Through an extended analysis of the Environmental Genome Project (EGP), we offer new tools from the philosophy of science and from critical epidemiology to help bioethics to move ahead. Our aim in this paper is not to resolve the moral and conceptual problems we reveal, but rather to outline ways to prevent such problems from arising in future research.
Regulatory and ethical principles in research involving children and individuals with developmental disabilities.	Children and individuals with developmental disabilities (DD) compared to typical participants are disadvantaged not only by virtue of being vulnerable to risks inherent in research participation but also by the higher likelihood of exclusion from research altogether. Current regulatory and ethical guidelines although necessary for their protection do not sufficiently ensure fair distributive justice. Yet, in view of disproportionately higher burdens of co-occurring physical and mental disorders in individuals with DD, they are better positioned to benefit from research by equitable participation. Greater elucidation of this ethical dilemma is called for by researchers, institutional review boards, and funding agencies to urgently redress the imbalance. This article discusses many of the regulatory principles to ensure better research participation of children and individuals with DD: human rights, validity, distributive justice, beneficence/nonmaleficence, and autonomy.
Correlates of psychological distress in elderly patients with congestive heart failure.	High levels of psychological distress have been reported in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF), resulting in increased morbidity and mortality. Yet, little is known about its associated factors. The purpose of this study is to identify the significant demographic, clinical and psychosocial correlates of psychological distress in CHF patients.
The home as a site for long-term care: meanings and management of bodies and spaces.	This paper is concerned with the constitution of the home as a landscape of care in a climate of extensive cost-cutting measures to community provided health care. It draws on data from a multi-disciplinary investigation of various dimensions of the home as a site of long-term care; this paper is concerned specifically with long-term health and associated home-care services provided by paid workers. Through analysis of interviews with adult care recipients and field observations, it examines the micro-scale processes through which the home is reconstructed as caregiving space, highlighting the negotiation of meanings of bodies and homes as fields of knowledge. It argues that the possibilities for the effective negotiation of body knowledge and homespace boundaries that are integral to the production of 'caring' space are embedded in and constrained by policies and practices constructed at a scale beyond home.
Aid in the midst of plenty: oil wealth, misery and advocacy in Angola.	This paper examines advocacy initiatives by humanitarian and human rights organisations to address problems of governance in resource-rich and conflict-affected countries, focussing on the case of Angola. Humanitarian principles preclude the use of indiscriminate conditionality and point towards a cautious approach to advocacy aimed at assisting vulnerable populations. Furthermore, the relatively insignificant amount of aid supplied to resource-rich local authorities means that individual agencies have precious little leverage, especially when commercial interests rather than humanitarian or 'good governance' principles influence the priorities of bilateral donors. A context of resource wealth calls for: high levels of coordination and cooperation between human rights groups, aid agencies and donors; balanced use of conditionality, based on the drawing, by donors, of a clear distinction between emergency and development-oriented assistance; and a sustained effort to highlight the responsibilities of local authorities, foreign governments and businesses in meeting humanitarian and development objectives.
States of emergency. As fiscal challenges increasingly overwhelm their budgets, states brace for the Bush administration's Medicaid plan.	With a host of other expensive issues leading President Bush's agenda, officials fear Medicaid could suffer some hard blows. States are already carving out efficiencies, even as enrollment swells. New HHS Secretary Mike Leavitt, left, last week said he saw an opportunity to revamp coverage for some Medicaid recipients. "Wouldn't it be better to give Chevys to everyone, rather than Cadillacs to a few?" he asked.
The practice and ethics of risk-rated health insurance.	Health insurance in the United States is driven by competitive risk rating and is promoted as the best way to give policyholders optimal value for their money and to be fair to those with lower risks. In practice, however, competitive risk rating costs more than noncompetitive, universal systems of health insurance, and it erodes the basic function of insurance to spread infrequent large losses over a wide base. This article describes not only how risk rating covers least those with the greatest medical bills, but also how it has spawned a labyrinth of complex manipulations by insurance companies to charge more or pay less than actuarially fair risk rating would justify. The final section shows that even if risk rating were done fairly, it contradicts moral fairness. Many of the leading proposals for national health insurance do not address these practical and ethical issues. The medical profession and policymakers need to discuss them and take a stand on them.
The effects of a supervised toothbrushing programme on the caries increment of primary school children, initially aged 5-6 years.	Children in the London Boroughs of Kensington, Chelsea and Westminster have one of the highest levels of caries in England and Wales. In 1997/98, the mean dmft for 5-year-old children was 2.83 with only 45.9% of the children being caries free. The aim of this study was to determine whether teacher-supervised toothbrushing, once a day, at school, during term time, with commercial toothpaste containing 1,450 ppm fluoride, could reduce dental caries in primary school children when compared with children from the same community who did not receive this intervention. A total of 517 children (mean age 5.63 years) were recruited for the study. Class teachers were trained individually by the same dental hygienist in an appropriate toothbrushing technique for young children. Children in the intervention group brushed once a day at school. All examinations were by visual assessment only. All teeth present were assessed using the BASCD criteria. For children in the intervention group, the overall caries increment (2.60) was significantly less (10.9%; p < 0.001) than for children in the non-intervention group (2.92). Among different tooth surfaces, the difference in caries increment between the intervention group (0.78) and the non-intervention group (1.03) was greatest for the proximal surfaces (21.4%; p < 0.01). In conclusion, this study suggests that a programme of daily teacher-supervised toothbrushing with fluoride toothpaste can be effectively targeted into socially deprived communities and a significant reduction in dental caries can thereby be achieved especially among caries-susceptible children.
African American grandparents raising grandchildren: a national study using the Census 2000 American Community Survey.	The objective of this work was to determine the prevalence, sociodemographic characteristics, and service utilization patterns of African American grandparents raising grandchildren compared with noncaregiving peers.
Learning healthy living--health management in schools. Health promotion in schools with particular consideration of socially disadvantaged students]	"Learning to Live Healthy" is a cooperation project between the Central Association of Health Insurers and the Health Associations of Lower Saxony, Saxony-Anhalt and Rhineland-Palatinate. Our goal is to develop a healthy environment for all teachers and students in the "School Organization". Our focus lies -- more strongly than with earlier projects for school health promotion -- in the improvement of the health of teachers and non-teaching personnel. Not until their resources are strengthened and overwork/overload broken down, can resources be directed to health promotion for and with students, and health risks connected with social inequalities can be diminished. The project operates with the setting approach, and uses the principles of Workplace Health Management- Integration, Participation and Project Management. The project utilizes the instruments of project organization to jump-start the process of change in the School Organization, systematically, through goal-oriented action and sustainable development, thus improving the quality of education.
Module three: vulnerable/special participant populations.	ABSTRACT This module is designed to sensitise you to the special needs of participants who belong to populations that are more vulnerable than other participant populations. These populations typically include incompetent persons women who may or may not be pregnant, children, prisoners and refugees, impoverished people, and ethnic minorities. These and similar groups deserve special consideration for a number of important ethical and historical reasons, specifically those that surround the potential for exploitation, problems with informed consent, and concerns about respect for participant autonomy. This module introduces modus operandi that are based on national and international research guidelines for dealing with vulnerable/special participant populations, offering contextually-dependent advice and relevant ethical considerations/arguments for and against their involvement in scientific research endeavours.
Learning disabilities and palliative care: recognizing pitfalls and exploring potential.	People with learning disabilities may experience poorer health, have additional health needs and often die younger than the average population. They may be diagnosed with palliative conditions but have difficulties accessing appropriate assessment, treatment and subsequent care. This position paper introduces the recognized challenges of providing high quality palliative care to people with learning disabilities and explores the potential for delivering appropriate palliative care for this vulnerable population within the UK. The article concludes with recommendations for practice development.
Adapting developing country epidemiological assessment techniques to improve the quality of health needs assessments in developed countries.	We were commissioned to carry out three health assessments in urban areas of Dublin in Ireland. We required an epidemiologically robust method that could collect data rapidly and inexpensively. We were dealing with inadequate health information systems, weak planning data and a history of inadequate recipient involvement in health service planning. These problems had also been identified by researchers carrying out health assessments in developing countries. This paper reports our experience of adapting a cluster survey model originally developed by international organisations to assess community health needs and service coverage in developing countries and applying our adapted model to three urban areas in Dublin, Ireland
Health promotion interests of women with disabilities.	The number of women with disabilities (WWD) in the United States is substantial and growing. Health promotion education can play a key role in the achievement of optimal health and well-being for this population. A preliminary step in planning educational programs is to identify health promotion topics of interest to this target population. This study surveyed WWD about their interest in health promotion topics and compared their interests by demographic characteristics (i.e., age, employment status, ethnic group, type of disabling condition, and level of disability). The sample population, comprising 604 women with a variety of disabilities, completed a written or online survey. Topic of interest selected were tallied and ranked by order of interest. Topics ranking highest in interest and selected by at least half of the WWD were aging with a disability, stress management, exercise, nutrition, overview of health promotion, and maintaining mental health. Significant health issues not identified included smoking cessation, pregnancy, and osteoporosis. If healthcare providers are aware of the topics that interest WWD, they can better develop educational programs to meet the needs of this vulnerable population.
Effectiveness of home visitation by public-health nurses in prevention of the recurrence of child physical abuse and neglect: a randomised controlled trial.	Recurrence of child maltreatment is a major problem, yet little is known about approaches to reduce this risk in families referred to child protection agencies. Since home visitation by nurses for disadvantaged first-time mothers has proven effective in prevention of child abuse and neglect, we aimed to investigate whether this approach might reduce recidivism.
Wound management in vulnerable populations.	While wound management is a significant challenge for many rehabilitation patients, vulnerable populations are at particular risk. In addition, considerable focus is being placed on vulnerable populations within health care. Rehabilitation nurses should understand issues related to working with vulnerable patients with wounds, including poverty and payment for care, culture, and literacy. Nursing research to advance the care of individuals from vulnerable populations requires a special approach designed to establish the integrity of the research and gain the trust of potential participants.
A legacy endures. A Maine system emphasizes its sponsor's mission in all aspects of its work.	The Sisters of Charity Health System, Lewiston, ME, a member of Covenant Health Systems, Lexington, MA, remains deeply committed to the mission of service begun by its foundress, St. Marguerite d'Youville. Although St. Marguerite experienced a hard life, her resilience and her commitment to the poor and disadvantaged serve as an inspiration to those who continue her legacy of compassionate care. The founding work of St. Marguerite and the sisters has helped to foster a culture in which the mission of service thrives among the system's 2,000 employees. This culture can be attributed to two things: the system's organizational values of compassion, stewardship, respect, and excellence; and the recognition of those employees whose work embodies these values. From the boardroom to the patient room, mission is integrated into each decision and action. Every two years, each of Covenant Health System's member facilities engages in a mission assessment process that examines various aspects of mission, including Catholic identity, holistic care, care for the poor, mission values integration, ethics and employee relations. In addition, the Sisters of Charity Health System's board has its own standing Mission and Community Committee, which looks strategically at how creatively and faithfully the system is continuing to live its mission.
Maryland's Special Populations Cancer Network: cancer health disparities reduction model.	Cancer in Maryland is a serious health concern for minority and underserved populations in rural and urban areas. This report describes the National Cancer Institute (NCI) supported Maryland Special Populations Cancer Network (MSPN), a community-academic partnership. The MSPN's priority populations include African Americans, Native Americans, and other medically underserved residents of rural and urban areas. The MSPN has established a community infrastructure through formal collaborations with several community partners located in Baltimore City, the rural Eastern Shore, and Southern and Western Maryland, and among the Piscataway Conoy Tribe and the other 27 Native American Tribes in Maryland. Key partners also include the University of Maryland Eastern Shore and the University of Maryland Statewide Health Network. The MSPN has implemented innovative and successful programs in cancer health disparities research, outreach, and training; clinical trials education, health disparities policy, and resource leveraging. The MSPN addresses the goal of the NCI and the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) to reduce and eventually eliminate cancer health disparities. Community-academic partnerships are the foundation of this successful network.
The UCSD Student-Run Free Clinic Project: transdisciplinary health professional education.	In the face of the serious problem of lack of access to health care in the United States, with over 45 million uninsured,1 there exist many models of collaborative local programs serving the uninsured. One such approach is the student-run free clinic, small projects managed by health professional students, supervised by licensed health professionals, offering free health services to those without health access. The purpose of this article is to describe the UCSD Student-Run Free Clinic Project, its history, mission, partners, clinical services, curriculum, funding, replicability, outcomes, elements of success, transdisciplinary nature, and hopes for the future.
Ethics and Medicaid: a new look at an old problem.	Recent proposals to reform Medicaid, driven primarily by the need for cost containment, rarely pay explicit attention to values. This paper presents the Medicaid Values Framework, the authors' interpretation of a set of societal ideals embodied in Title XIX of the Social Security Amendments of 1965. The Framework comprises seven interlocking values that are stratified into three interdependent tiers--access, quality, and equity. We use the access and equity tiers to analyze treatment of Aid to Families with Dependent Children (AFDC) and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) recipients under Medicaid. We document striking inequities in eligibility standards and in funding for the two groups--inequities that unexpectedly fail to translate into marked disparities in access to Medicaid. In conclusion, we comment on why the present inequities exist and why they are ethically unacceptable.
Child immunization in Vietnam: situation and barriers to coverage.	This paper addresses the overall performance and inequalities in the immunization of children in Vietnam. Descriptive and logistic analysis of cross-national demographic and health data was used to examine inequality in immunization, identify the most vulnerable groups in immunization coverage, and identify the gap in coverage between hard-to-access people and the remainder of the population. The gap in the coverage was found to occur primarily in vulnerable groups such as the poor minority or poor rural children. No evidence was found of a difference in immunization coverage because of sex or birth order. However, the age of children showed a significant influence on the rate of immunization. Mother's education and regular watching of television had a significant influence on child immunization. In order to improve child immunization coverage in Vietnam, efforts should be concentrated on poor children from minority groups and those living in rural areas, especially remote ones. Community development, investment for immunization and re-organization of immunization services at the grassroots level are also key factors to remove the barriers to immunization for vulnerable populations in Vietnam.
Distribution of influenza vaccine to high-risk groups.	Vaccine distribution programs have historically targeted individuals at high risk of complications due to influenza. Despite recommendations from the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices, vaccination coverage among high-risk populations has been generally low. This review systematically summarizes the recent literature evaluating programs in different settings, from within medical settings to venue-based and community-based approaches, in an effort to identify successful program components. The published literature was identified by using the MEDLINE database from 1990 to 2006 covering studies that reported on interventions or programs aimed at vaccinating high-risk populations. The authors reviewed 56 studies. In the United States, the Healthy People 2010 goals included 90% vaccination coverage for adults aged > or = 65 years and 60% for high-risk adults aged 18-64 years. Only a handful of the studies reviewed managed to meet those goals. Interventions that increased vaccination coverage to Healthy People 2010 goals included advertising, provider and patient mailings, registry-based telephone calls, patient and staff education, standing orders coupled with standardized forms, targeting of syringe exchange customers, and visiting nurses. Few studies evaluated the impact of vaccination programs by race/ethnicity and socioeconomic status. Few studies targeted individuals outside of the health-care and social services sectors. Given the growing disparities in health and health-care access, understanding the way in which interventions can remedy disparities is crucial.
Where do we belong? Urban adolescents' struggle for place and voice.	Through a telling of key events in the history of the "Teen Action Center" (TAC), a drop-in youth center located in downtown "Unionville," this story demonstrates how 'youth' is an important diversity category. The community conflict highlighted in this story centers around the 1997 arrest of TAC's Executive Director and two youth leaders (all Puerto Rican) because a small group of Latino and African-American youth was smoking cigarettes on the sidewalk in front of the Center. This conflict brings into focus divergent views on where Unionville's youth of color belong in the city, both physically and figuratively. The lessons learned in this story have wide application as Unionville, and other cities undergoing demographic transformation and economic decline, are likely to continue to experience these types of clashes, where the dominant paradigm of economic development overrides the realities, rights, and interests of marginalized groups.
Oral health inequalities among indigenous and nonindigenous children in the Northern Territory of Australia.	To describe oral health inequalities among indigenous and nonindigenous children in the Northern Territory of Australia using an area-based measure of socioeconomic status (SES).
Adaptive sampling: recruiting a diverse community sample of survivors of sexual violence.	Accessing vulnerable and hard-to-reach populations is a significant challenge for nurse researchers. Adaptive sampling is a procedure that has been used effectively in community-based research to recruit rare or hidden populations. Structured community assessment, as practiced by community health nurses, can be used to enhance adaptive sampling procedures to recruit research participants. This article(1) describes adaptive sampling techniques, discusses how the techniques can be enhanced with a structured nursing community assessment, and describes how adaptive sampling was used successfully by nurse researchers to obtain a diverse and vulnerable community sample for a grounded-theory study of women's and men's responses to sexual violence.
The Midwest Nursing Centers Consortium Research Network: translating research into practice.	Community nursing centers (CNCs) serve the health needs of culturally diverse populations that are often marginalized and likely to experience disparities in health. CNCs utilize innovative models of primary health care that blend traditional medical management with nursing case management and community-based health promotion strategies. This article describes the mission and activities of the Midwest Nursing Centers Consortium Research Network (MNCCRN), a practice-based research network (PBRN) funded by the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, and is one of only two federally funded nonphysician primary care PBRNs and the only PBRN in the United States comprising exclusively CNCs. The MNCCRN utilizes Advanced Practice Nurses to deliver primary health care with a particular emphasis on reducing health disparities. The MNCCRN has successfully established a multisite, multistate collaboration for community-based participatory research that will ultimately inform practice, education, and health policy.
Pharmacovigilance during the pre-approval phases: an evolving pharmaceutical industry model in response to ICH E2E, CIOMS VI, FDA and EMEA/CHMP risk-management guidelines.	Pharmacovigilance science has traditionally been a discipline focussed on the postmarketing or post-authorisation period, with due attention directed towards pre-clinical safety data, clinical trials and adverse events. As the biological sciences have evolved, pharmacovigilance has slowly shifted toward earlier, proactive consideration of risks and potential benefits of drugs in the pre- and peri-approval stages of drug development, leading to a maturing of drug safety risk management. Further advances in biology, pharmacology and improvements in computational applications to medicine have led to the development of more complex medicines previously unobtainable and have also permitted a more thorough assessment of risks and potential benefits even earlier in the development process. Elevated public concern with the safety of more sophisticated medicines, combined with new science, have led pharmaceutical innovators, regulators and healthcare professionals to collaborate to develop guidelines, which drive enhanced pharmacovigilance and safety risk management earlier in drug development. In this paper, we review international guidelines on pharmacovigilance planning applicable to the pre-approval phases of medicines development and provide author opinion on these guidelines' potential drug safety implications. We discuss the possible evolution of a pharmaceutical industry model to respond to these guidelines; a view on multidisciplinary safety management teams is provided to encourage refinement of safety-signal identification and risk assessment early in drug development and to communicate important safety concerns to internal research efforts, patients, investigators and regulators. We further describe these functions in the context of the complexities of vulnerable populations, including the example of medicines research for paediatric populations. We also discuss the special role of epidemiology in pre-approval drug development and the impact on epidemiological science of changes to the pharmacovigilance paradigm.
Promoting the health of looked after children in Scotland.	Looked after children and young people represent one of the most vulnerable groups within our society and experience significant health inequalities compared with their counterparts who are not looked after by the local authorities. Tackling these health disparities and improving their health is a multiagency responsibility involving local authorities, health professionals, education and many other agencies. By recognising the potential benefits of collaborative working and incorporating it into everyday practice, it is anticipated that professionals will acknowledge that sharing their skills and expertise is pivotal to the maintenance of an equitable and holistic service for looked after children. This paper aims to raise awareness of the complex needs of these children and examines factors contributing to their poor health outcomes. It will also explore the emerging role of specialist nurses in Scotland in leading and facilitating a service to identify and address the health needs of this vulnerable population.
Nickel-and-Dimed in America: underserved, understudied, and underestimated.	This article examines circumstances in the contemporary United States that increase health disparities. Minority women are particularly vulnerable because of environmental stress. Furthermore, absent or inadequate healthcare coverage deters the use of preventive healthcare practices. Organizing themes are as follows: underserved, which describes factors that contribute to health disparities and examines the consequences, particularly for underserved minority groups; understudied, which examines potentially fruitful, but as yet insufficiently investigated, avenues of research needed to better understand the basis for health disparities; and underestimated, which argues that without trusting researcher-community partnerships, interventions to address health disparities will be flawed and ineffective.
The relationship between cultural competence education and increasing diversity in nursing schools and practice settings.	This article attempted to examine the relationship between cultural competence education and increasing diversity in nursing schools and practice settings. In addition to the review of the literature, a panel of experts was interviewed regarding institutional practices in response to the challenge of increasing diversity and cultural competence education. Evidence of positive outcomes of cultural competent care and impact of race and ethnic concordance between patients and providers are presented. The challenge of increasing underrepresented minorities in health care professions remains elusive. An ecological analysis is recommended to address the social and cultural barriers that transcend the micro system of the school and the macro system of the society. The challenge of increasing diversity and realizing outcomes of cultural competence education requires social and comprehensive remedies to level life inequities that perpetuate a history of disadvantages in some groups.
The epidemiology of infant injuries and alarming health disparities.	Injury epidemiology is the underappreciated foundation of injury prevention and control strategies. Given the substantial disparity of infant injury-related mortality between African Americans (AA) and whites in our region, we sought to better understand the epidemiology of infant injury-related mortality rates.
Issues related to delivering an early childhood home-visiting program.	To describe the issues related to delivering an early childhood home visiting program, BabyFirst, from the perspective of public health nurses and lay home visitors (paraprofessionals).
Housing as a socio-economic determinant of health: findings of a national needs, gaps and opportunities assessment.	In 2002-2003, a Needs, Gaps and Opportunities Assessment (NGOA) was conducted to investigate relationships between socio-economic dimensions of housing and health. Recent reviews of the literature point to a dearth of research on the socio-economic dimensions of housing and health, despite its potential for promoting health.
Timely recognition of dementia: community nurses' crucial roles.	This article aims to show that community nurses are well placed to recognize the early symptoms of dementia. It identifies the three main ways in which community nurses can assess changes in cognition, and how the community nurse can work with the GP and other family members to provide a seamless service to this vulnerable group. Special focus is given to the sensitivity with which nurses can guide the older person through the stages of recognition and diagnosis of the condition and subsequent after-care.
Intellectual impairment and sexual health: information needs.	Inclusion into the wider community for people with learning disabilities and intellectual impairment has been problematic for many people and in some cases the result has been an exacerbation of mental health problems or a reduction in adaptive functioning. Research has found that people who have chronic mental illness or intellectual impairment are a sexually active group although they might not always be perceived as such. Therefore, there are questions that may be raised over an identified lack of sexual health promotion and practices surrounding safe sex. This short article will examine particular barriers to sexual health care for this patient group in the areas of consent (to sexual acts, screening and treatment), communication and health promotion in this field. Implications for future practice are discussed.
Community health workers as a cornerstone for integrating HIV and primary healthcare.	Haiti is the poorest and most heavily HIV-burdened country in the Western hemisphere, with even less health infrastructure than many countries of sub-Saharan Africa. Since the early 1980s the HIV epidemic has affected the poorest communities in Haiti, who lack access to even basic healthcare. Large-scale HIV treatment requires that basic healthcare services be built and scaled up simultaneously with HIV-prevention and -care programmes. Such improvement in access to general healthcare will require substantial investments in health infrastructure, service delivery and human development. This study describes the contribution of the non-governmental organization, Zanmi Lasante (ZL) to the HIV prevention and treatment scale-up and to the ongoing efforts to improve primary healthcare (PHC) services in the public health system in Haiti. The model depends on community health workers (CHWs) who supervise antiretroviral therapy (ART) and provide community outreach, including active case finding and outreach to marginalized populations. Zanmi Lasante has recruited, trained and financed a large cadre of CHWs to provide such linkages between communities and health centres in rural Haiti. The study analysed key components of their work--their self-perception, their role in enhancing community uptake of services and their role in targeting vulnerable groups. We found that most patients at risk were properly identified at a community level. The CHWs are facilitating the uptake of PHC services, including by the most vulnerable households. The general training of CHWs has created a positive self-definition in these cadres of their medical, patient support and health service roles; although with some variability across different groups. The results of this study will be used to emphasize, standardized and strengthen the biosocial training of CHWs.
Learning from diverse contexts: equity and inclusion in the responses to AIDS.	This paper situates the findings of the diverse studies reported in this journal supplement in a global context that both fuels the epidemic through inequality and poverty and also provides new opportunities for global commitments, solidarity and resources. The studies in this issue signal that, while information and awareness about HIV and AIDS is now high, there is still poor access to services for people to know their own risk and a deeper need to address the asymmetries of power and access to resources that influence the control people have over their sexual relationships and lives. The studies in this supplement describe, in very different contexts, responses to the impact of AIDS that are grounded within the actions of individuals, households and extended families, against a background of existing disadvantage in assets, endowment and access to state and private sector resources. Community networks reduce social isolation and provide solidarity to households struggling to respond to AIDS. The extra work involved is often done by women, particularly where the weakening of the state has left communities disadvantaged. The paper argues that connections across communities to support survival need vertical links to national and global resources, services and markets to support, sustain and transform lives. The studies demonstrate the positive effect of this through primary healthcare systems, non-government organisation support and the social movements of people living with HIV and AIDS. If the first wave of the global response to AIDS built awareness and an emergency response to prevention, treatment and care, there is now need for a 'second wave' that provides strong measures to connect communities to social, national and global resources. Elements of this 'second wave' include people's--especially women and young people's--access to services to know their individual risk, measures that enhance their autonomy and the need for a massive increase in investment in and access to decent work.
Strategies applied by women in coping with ad-hoc demands for unauthorized user fees during pregnancy and childbirth. A focus group study from Angola.	Our aim in this study was to explore women's responses to reported ad-hoc demands for unauthorized user fees during pregnancy and childbirth in Luanda, Angola. Ten focus group discussions were conducted and data were analysed using grounded theory. Women were found to apply six strategies as they "endeavored to cope with demands for unauthorized user fees" (core category): (i) blowing the whistle, (ii) searching for comprehension, (iii) manipulating the system, (iv) bargaining, (v) extending the limits, and (vi) balancing. The system of unauthorized user fees appears to be a symptom of a deeper structural problem, which requires multifaceted and long-term interventions such as insti-tutional reforms and clear policies on accountability and transparency. Better resource availability for the MHC sector is required in order to secure adequate salaries to maternal health care providers. The fact that unethical behavior is unveiled implies that interventions also need to target the national midwifery training.
Determining risk in pediatric research with no prospect of direct benefit: time for a national consensus on the interpretation of federal regulations.	United States federal regulations for pediatric research with no prospect of direct benefit restrict institutional review board (IRB) approval to procedures presenting: 1) no more than "minimal risk" ( section sign 45CFR46.404); or 2) no more than a "minor increase over minimal risk" if the research is commensurate with the subjects' previous or expected experiences and intended to gain vitally important information about the child's disorder or condition ( section sign 45CFR46.406) (DHHS 2001). During the 25 years since their adoption, these regulations have helped IRBs balance subject protections with the pursuit of scientific knowledge to advance children's welfare. At the same time, inconsistency in IRB application of these regulations to pediatric protocols has been widespread, in part because of the ambiguity of the regulatory language. During the past decade, three federally-charged committees have addressed these ambiguities: 1) the National Human Research Protections Advisory Committee (NHRPAC) (Washington, DC), 2) the Institute of Medicine (IOM) Committee on the Ethical Conduct of Clinical Research Involving Children (Washington, DC); and 3) the United States Department of Health and Human Services Secretary's Advisory Committee for Human Research Protections (SACHRP) (Washington, DC). The committees have reached similar conclusions on interpretation of language within regulations section sign section sign 45CFR46.404 and 406; these conclusions are remarkably consistent with recent international recommendations and those of the original National Commission for the Protection of Human Subjects of Biomedical and Behavioral Research (1977) report from which current regulations are based. Drawing on the committees' public reports, this article identifies the ethical issues posed by ambiguities in regulatory language, summarizes the committees' deliberations, and calls for a national consensus on recommended criteria.
Is cumulative exposure to economic hardships more hazardous to women's health than men's? A 16-year follow-up study of the Swedish Survey of Living Conditions.	Previous research has shown an association between cumulative economic hardships and various health outcomes. However, the cumulative effects of economic hardships in regard to gender differences have not been given enough attention.
Is economic adversity always a killer? Disadvantaged areas with relatively low mortality rates.	To identify areas of Britain whose residents have relatively low age specific mortality, despite experiencing long-term economic adversity.
Tsunami mortality estimates and vulnerability mapping in Aceh, Indonesia.	We aimed to quantify tsunami mortality and compare approaches to mortality assessment in the emergency context in Aceh, Indonesia, where the impact of the 2004 tsunami was greatest.
Paradoxical payoffs: migrant women, informal sector work, and HIV/AIDS in South Africa.	In post-apartheid South Africa, there has been a significant rise in women's out-migration from rural areas and across its territorial borders for economic purposes resulting in gender reconfiguration of migration streams. Alongside, there has been a simultaneous increase in the participation of women in the labor force. However, this has mostly grown in the informal sector,1 which is often associated with low earnings and insecure working conditions. One consequence has been the increasing reliance of migrant women on survivalist activities such as informal sexual exchanges that increase their risk of contracting HIV infection. Insecure working environments also expose migrant women to sexual abuses. This article is based on the author's work in South Africa's major urban centers and examines the nature of the relationship between the increased migration of black African women in South Africa, the nature of their work, and their resultant vulnerability to HIV/AIDS.
Needs for home care nursing in the vulnerable elderly.	The purpose of this study was to determine the subjects' health status according to the needs of visiting health and the function of the family in home care nursing.
Participatory evaluation (I)--sharing lessons from fieldwork in Asia.	There is a need to study methodologies for evaluating social development projects. Traditional methods of evaluation are often not able to capture or measure the 'spirit of change' in people, which is the very essence of human development. Using participatory methodologies is a positive way to ensure that evaluations encourage an understanding of the value of critical analysis among service providers and other stakeholders. Participatory evaluation provides a systematic process of learning through experiences.
One step forward, two steps back--requiring ministerial approval for all "non-therapeutic" health research involving minors.	The new National Health Act has clarified that children may take part in "non-therapeutic" research (NTR) and the age at which they may provide independent consent to such research, viz. at legal majority. However, the Act will require consent from the Minister of Health for all research classed as NTR and involving minors regardless of the level of risk. This requirement is overly broad. It will require that low-risk research without direct benefits, which might be adequately reviewed by an accredited research ethics committee (REC), must also be reviewed by the Minister. As it currently stands this requirement serves no plausible ethical purpose, will cause delays and discourage essential research on the needs of children, and may inspire researchers and RECs alike to "foil the system". We argue that in the long term there should be comprehensive law reform for child research. However, in the short term, amendments should be made to the Act to narrow the scope of this provision. The amendment should require ministerial consent for research that is currently not approvable by an REC in terms of national ethical guidelines, namely, research that does not hold out direct benefit but presents more than a minor increase over minimal risk. If our law reform recommendations are rejected, we favour the delegation of this task to RECs because, if they receive appropriate training, they should be competent to conduct it. We accept the disadvantages, namely that the same body will review protocols twice from slightly different perspectives and that certain categories of research will remain unapprovable.
Disadvantage and discontent: a review of issues relevant to the mental health of rural and remote Indigenous Australians.	To provide an overview of the mental health of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander residents of rural and remote Australia and to identify associated factors.
Poorer health and nutritional outcomes in orphans and vulnerable young children not explained by greater exposure to extreme poverty in Zimbabwe.	To describe patterns of association between different groups of young orphans and vulnerable children (OVC) and their nutritional and health outcomes; and to develop a theoretical framework to analyse the determinants of child malnutrition and ill-health, and identify the different mechanisms which contribute to these outcomes in such children.
Cumulative stress and substantiated maltreatment: the importance of caregiver vulnerability and adult partner violence.	Our goal is to assess the effect of caregiver vulnerabilities, singly and in combination, on the substantiation of child abuse (physical, sexual) and neglect, while controlling for relevant background variables. We test the moderator role of adult partner violence in qualifying the relationship between caregiver vulnerabilities and maltreatment substantiation.
Causal attribution of discrimination and favoritism in a disadvantaged group]	Two experiments investigated the hypothesis that the need to protect positive self-regards mediates the causal attribution of one's failure to discrimination. Female undergraduates read a scenario in which either the participant herself or another woman (in-group member) took a job interview. The outcome was depicted either as failing (Studies 1 and 2) or passing the interview (Study 2). Participants attributed the failure to gender discrimination only when the interviewers were unanimously sexists. The attribution to discrimination was negatively correlated with the state self-esteem in the social domain. When the protagonist was an in-group member, a moderate level of discrimination was sufficient to elicit the participant' s discrimination attribution. For the positive outcome scenario, the participants were more likely to acknowledge the influence of favoritism on their own success than on other's success. These results suggest that the unwillingness for attributing a failure to discrimination functions for the protection of the self-esteem among the members of a disadvantaged group. Implications for the study of coping strategies used by victims of discrimination are discussed.
Climate change and children.	Climate change is increasing the burden of climate-sensitive health determinants and outcomes worldwide. Acting through increasing temperature, changes in the hydrologic cycle, and sea level rise, climate change is projected to increase the frequency and intensity of heat events and extreme events (floods and droughts), change the geographic range and incidence of climate-sensitive vector-, food-, and waterborne diseases, and increase diseases associated with air pollution and aeroallergens. Children are particularly vulnerable to these health outcomes because of their potentially greater exposures, greater sensitivity to certain exposures, and their dependence on caregivers.
Global pediatric environmental health.	Children are uniquely vulnerable to environmental health problems. Developed countries report as the most common problems ambient (outdoor) air pollution and lead. Developing countries have a wider range of common problems, including childhood injuries, indoor air pollution, infectious disease, and poor sanitation with unsafe water. Globally, the agencies of the United Nations act to protect children and perform essential reporting and standards-setting functions. Conditions vary greatly among countries and are not always better in developing countries. Protecting the health of children requires strengthening the public health and medical systems in every country, rather than a single global agenda.
The NIEHS Environmental Health Sciences Data Resource Portal: placing advanced technologies in service to vulnerable communities.	Two devastating hurricanes ripped across the Gulf Coast of the United States during 2005. The effects of Hurricane Katrina were especially severe: the human and environmental health impacts on New Orleans, Louisiana, and other Gulf Coast communities will be felt for decades to come. The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) estimates that Katrina's destruction disrupted the lives of roughly 650,000 Americans. Over 1,300 people died. The projected economic costs for recovery and reconstruction are likely to exceed $125 billion.
Gender and Hurricane Mitch: reconstructing subjectivities after disaster.	Much of the gender and disaster literature calls for more gender-sensitive disaster relief and research by focusing on the ways in which women are more vulnerable in a disaster or on their unique capabilities as community leaders or natural resource managers, which are often overlooked or underutilised in emergency management strategies. As well as seeking to overcome the (strategic) essentialism that is part of these calls and debates, this paper pays closer attention to gender identity and subjectivity as these are constructed and reworked through the disaster process to highlight the complexities and contradictions associated with women's responses to a disaster. This focus, while crucial to gaining a deeper understanding of the gendered dimensions of disaster, also complicates attempts to create more gender-sensitive frameworks for disaster response. It draws on qualitative research conducted with a number of women in the wake of Hurricane Mitch (1998) in Nicaragua.
Challenges and solutions to integrating mental and physical health care.	A critical step in addressing excess medical morbidity and mortality in persons with serious mental illness is to better understand, and seek to improve, the medical care that they receive. Medical quality deficits for persons with serious mental illnesses include problems including overuse of certain medical services such as emergency room care; underuse of some evidence-based general medical services; and misuse, or medical error. The origins of poor quality care for persons with mental disorders are rooted in interrelated contributory factors from patients, providers, and the medical and mental health systems. At a system level, at least 4 types of separation between mental and medical health care may exacerbate the problems for persons with serious mental illnesses: 1) geographic (lack of co-located medical and mental health services), 2) financial (separate funding streams for medical and mental health services), 3) organizational (difficulty in sharing information and expertise across these systems), and 4) cultural (providers' focus on particular symptoms or disorders, rather than on the patients with those problems). Research studies and demonstration programs for improving medical care in this population have spanned a continuum of medical provider involvement from psychiatrist and patient training, to on-site consultation by medical staff, multidisciplinary collaborative care approaches, and facilitated linkages between community and mental health and medical providers. Ultimately, it will be important to develop, test, and implement a range of models for improving the medical care of persons with serious mental disorders tailored to patients' needs, mental health system capacities, and local community resources.
Students' opinions about treating vulnerable populations immediately after completing community-based clinical experiences.	The purpose of this study was to analyze students' perceptions of comfort and anticipated willingness to treat selected special needs and traditionally underserved populations immediately upon completion of community-based clinical assignments. The sample consisted of University of Iowa senior dental students who completed a questionnaire that asked, in part, about student comfort with and future willingness to treat twelve vulnerable population groups. With student comfort and future willingness to treat each group as dependent variables, logistic models were developed to determine whether there were significant associations between dependent variables and gender, graduation year, and students' prior experience with these groups. Regression models indicate students' prior experience is most often associated with comfort in treating the associated population group. Likewise, experience and comfort add different dimensions to perceived future willingness to treat almost all of the twelve groups. Student gender, graduation year from dental school, and community assignments influence only a few of these targeted population groups. This study provides empirical evidence concerning students' perceptions about comfort with various vulnerable populations after completing their extramural rotations. Students were more comfortable treating certain population groups as well as more willing to consider including these groups in their future practices.
Impact of AIDS on rural livelihoods in Benue State, Nigeria.	This study addresses the socio-economic impact of AIDS on rural livelihoods in Benue State, Nigeria, where HIV prevalence is 9.3% but the number of AIDS cases is still relatively low. About 6% of the study households had experienced illness and death classified as AIDS, and reported high costs in terms of expenditures and time spent on care, funerals and mourning. These demands on time affected income and productivity, while the diversion of resources had implications for investments and savings. Coping strategies varied between households, mainly as a reflection of asset levels, which were often related to the gender of the household head. Reported coping strategies also differed between ethnic groups. First-line relatives were the most important source of support for households under pressure. Erosive coping strategies that undermined the sustainability of livelihoods were used by more vulnerable households following multiple cases of illness and death. Mourning practices, rules of inheritance and stigma tended to increase a household's vulnerability. Currently, Benue State is facing growing adult morbidity and mortality because of HIV infections. A context-specific study of its possible impact in a setting with a still relatively low number of AIDS cases is therefore important for informing local policy development and for building advocacy.
New approaches, new activities and new outcomes in international conferences on HIV/AIDS in Africa--report of the 3rd African Conference on the Social Aspects of HIV/AIDS, Dakar, 10-14 October 2005.	Africa's HIV/AIDS situation remains cause for concern. The impact of HIV is considerable and threatens the survival and development of African societies. Although much has been attempted, the results still leave much to be desired. AIDS is an epidemic that needs to be addressed with much creativity and spirit of initiative. It is against this background that the 3rd African conference on the social aspects of HIV/AIDS brought innovations in the way international conferences are designed, activities implemented and results obtained. The innovations concerned the approach to international conferences and take into account reconceptualising HIV/AIDS so as to encourage holistic approaches and better visibility of vulnerable groups. The activities of the conference were organised in such a way as to get people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), grassroots communities and marginalised groups to play a focal role. The conference offered an opportunity for developing cultural activities that would translate the African cultural concepts that had been identified as important in the HIV situation and response analysis. Interaction at the conference created an opportunity to analyse the various dimensions of the political, cultural and economic determinants. The conference offered food for thought around response construction while singling out the themes of urgency and acceleration of response, synergy construction, and coordination and conception of political responses.
Translating research into policy: the case of orphans and vulnerable children in South Africa.	Policies are often developed without taking into account social science research findings and recommendations, despite the plethora of such research studies. This is largely because researchers and policy makers often work in isolation, yet if they worked synergistically they could have a significant impact on implementing interventions known to work to improve the lives of populations. Several approaches have been advanced to encourage policy makers to take heed of scientific findings and to urge scientists to take into account the needs of policy makers in designing their research agenda. This paper aims to illustrate how policy has been informed using the case study of the Orphans and Vulnerable Children project in South Africa. It further highlights the successes and challenges encountered thus far with this project. In some countries, particularly those of the north, there has been major progress in bridging this gap between research and policy; however, in developing countries much remains to be done.
Influence of host-related risk indicators on dental caries in permanent dentition.	The aim of this study was to assess the individual and grouped influence of host-related factors on dental caries experience in permanent dentition of 7-9 year-old children. One hundred and twenty one children were recruited applying a stratified cluster sampling without replacement. Clinical examinations, Colorimetric Test and non-stimulated and stimulated saliva collection were performed; the samples obtained were later incubated using Snyder culture medium. Simple and multiple binary logistic regression analyses were performed to assess the individual and grouped influence of the host-related factors and establish a modelfor predicting dental caries in permanent dentition. 78.5% of the evaluated children presented dental caries in permanent dentition. Binary logistic regression analyses revealMd that only dental caries in deciduous dentition and stimulated salivary flow were significantly associated to dental caries in permanent dentition. The final multivariate model showed that the adjusted OR was 1.76 for an increase of 1 tooth in dmft and 2.29 for a decrease of 1 ml in stimulated salivary flow. Dental caries in deciduous dentition is a risk indicator for dental caries in permanent dentition, and stimulated salivary flow is a protective factor Variables like enamel resistance to acid dissolution and buffer capacity are not related to dental caries in permanent dentition, making them inappropriate for risk studies.
Pathways of disadvantage and smoking careers: evidence and policy implications.	To investigate in older industrialised societies (a) how social disadvantage contributes to smoking risk among women (b) the role of social and economic policies in reducing disadvantage and moderating wider inequalities in life chances and living standards.
Tobacco policies and vulnerable girls and women: toward a framework for gender sensitive policy development.	This article assesses the effects of comprehensive tobacco control policies on diverse subpopulations of girls and women who are at increased vulnerability to tobacco use because of disadvantage. The authors report on a recent assessment of experimental literature examining tobacco taxation; smoking location restrictions in public and private spaces; and sales restrictions. A comprehensive search was undertaken to identify relevant studies and evaluation reports. Gender based and diversity analyses were performed to identify pertinent sex differences and gender influences that would affect the application and impact of the policy. Finally, the results were contextualised within the wider literature on women's tobacco use and women's health. The authors consider not only the intended policy effects, but also explicitly examine the gendered and/or unintended consequences of these policies on other aspects of girls and women's health and wellbeing. A framework for developing gender sensitive tobacco programmes and policies for low income girls and women is provided.
African women and vulnerability to HIV/AIDS: implications for female related cultural practices.	Violence against women in Africa dates back to primordial society, where cultural practices such as female genital mutilation and polygamous marriages were prescribed and supervised by male-dominated social structures. Women's status has always been at high risk, since such practices are male supervised. With the upsurge of the HIV/AIDS pandemic globally, research needs to focus on such cultural practices, the dangers of such practices, and possible eradication. The present article examines the change-resistant, prevailing religious, social, and psychological barriers to change.
Language spoken and differences in health status, access to care, and receipt of preventive services among US Hispanics.	We examined self-reported health status, health behaviors, access to care, and use of preventive services of the US Hispanic adult population to identify language-associated disparities.
HIV/AIDS risk among female sex workers who use crack in Southern Brazil.	To understand the social context of female sex workers who use crack and its impact on HIV/AIDS risk behaviors. METHODODOLOGICAL PROCEDURES: Qualitative study carried out in Foz do Iguau, Southern Brazil, in 2003. Twenty-six in-depth interviews and two focus groups were carried out with female commercial sex workers who frequently use crack. In-depth interviews with health providers, community leaders and public policy managers, as well as field observations were also conducted. Transcript data was entered into Atlas.ti software and grounded theory methodology was used to analyze the data and develop a conceptual model as a result of this study.
In the shelter of each other: Respite Care for Students as a partnership model.	Many of today's nursing students live in the margin of society without family support. When this is compounded by demanding family responsibilities, the personal and academic consequences for students can be harsh. Although numerous student retention strategies have been clearly documented, Respite Care for Students is offered as a unique partnership model to sustain these students' enrollment, provide adequate time for their learning, and enhance their graduation rates.
Does the population approach increase health inequality? Vulnerable population approach as an alternative strategy]	The population approach is well recognized as an effective strategy to improve population health, as well as the population-at-risk approach. It aims to decrease risk exposure of the total population through a change of contextual conditions. However, the population approach has the possibility of increasing health inequality because of variation in the effectiveness of the strategy in accordance with the risk exposure. This paper proposes the "vulnerable population approach" as an alternative and supplemental strategy. It aims to decrease health inequalities between socially defined groups, by shifting the distribution of a lower level of risk exposure of the groups through changes in social and environmental conditions that make groups at higher risk. No interventional approach can be singly applied to all health problems. To improve population health, it is important to select the most effective strategy among the three approaches, considering their advantages and limitations, and to adopt a suitable combination of different approaches.
Nursing care of vulnerable populations using a framework of cultural competence, social justice and human rights.	The article attempts to present a model linking cultural competence with advocacy for social justice and protection of human rights in caring for vulnerable groups such as refugees and asylum seekers. Using the human rights principle focuses the moral obligation to address social inequities and suffering of vulnerable populations. Cultural competent care and culturally-congruent actions place the universal principles of social justice and protection of human rights within the cultural contexts of people's lives and the environment in which they are situated. Compassion is identified as the key component for culturally-competent advocacy for social justice and human rights protection. Compassion compels actions advocating social justice and protection of human rights for marginalised and powerless groups. Educational strategies for developing compassion are centered on collaboration, partnership and advocacy. Integration of experiential and didactic learning relevant to cultural competent care for refugees and asylum seekers are recommended.
Strategic use of communication to market cancer prevention and control to vulnerable populations.	There are significant challenges to communicating relevant cancer prevention and control information to health care consumers due both to the complexities of the health information to be communicated and the complexities of health communication, especially with vulnerable populations. The need for effective communication about cancer risks, early detection, prevention, care, and survivorship is particularly acute, yet also tremendously complex, for reaching vulnerable populations, those groups of people who are most likely to suffer significantly higher levels of morbidity and mortality from cancers than other segments of the population. These vulnerable populations, typically the poorest, lowest educated, and most disenfranchised members of modern society, are heir to serious cancer-related health disparities. Vulnerable populations often have health literacy difficulties, cultural barriers, and economic challenges to accessing and making sense of relevant health information. This paper examines these challenges to communicating relevant information to vulnerable populations and suggests strategies for effectively using different communication media for marketing cancer prevention and control to reduce health disparities and promote public health.
Placing ethics in the centre: negotiating new spaces for ethical research in conflict situations.	Issues of power and consent, confidentiality, trust, and benefit, risks to researchers, and potential harm to participants, are all contested when working with different cultures and within environments marked by violence and insecurity. Difficulty resolving these dilemmas may paralyse ethics committees, may fail to give the guidance sought by researchers, and will not help populations who are among the world's most vulnerable. Even where efforts are made to respond to ethical guidelines and to improve practice, considerable impediments are present in many developing countries, including lack of formal ethical review structures in unstable settings, lack of required skills, limited political and institutional recognition of ethical issues, competing interests, and limitations in clinical and research practice (Elsayed 2004, Macklin 2004). In conflict settings, these limitations are more marked, and the responsibilities of the researcher for ethical practice are greater, but the mechanisms for oversight are weaker. Moreover, the constant focus on vulnerabilities and problems, and the often almost total lack of recognition of strengths and resilience, can further disempower already exploited groups and individuals. The capacity of refugees and communities in conflict to take an active role in the research process is seldom acknowledged, and undermines the potential for more innovative research which can help generate the evidence for better policy and practice.
The health care resource allocation debate. Defining our terms.	The problem of health care distribution in the United States demands immediate action. Many different solutions have been proposed to slow rising health care costs and to improve access to care for the poor and uninsured. Debate among proponents of these various proposals might be advanced if a common language were adopted with regard to certain key terms instead of the various meanings currently assigned to these terms. For this reason, we propose and defend the following three definitions: (1) rationing is the societal toleration of inequitable access to health services acknowledged to be necessary by reference to necessary-care guidelines; (2) health care needs are desires for services that have been reasonably well demonstrated to provide significant net benefit for patients with specified clinical conditions; and (3) basic benefit plans are insurance packages that provide for all and only acknowledged health care needs, again by reference to appropriate clinical guidelines.
Potential roles of high salt intake and maternal malnutrition in the development of hypertension in disadvantaged populations.	1. It has been argued that all major risk factors for cardiovascular disease have been identified. Yet, epidemiological studies undertaken to identify risk factors have largely focused on populations in developed nations or on the urban or relatively affluent rural populations of developing countries. Poor rural populations are seldom studied. 2. Somewhat different risk factors may operate in poor rural populations. Evidence for this is provided by the finding that, in disadvantaged rural India, the prevalence of hypertension is greater than would be expected based on established risk factors in these populations. One risk factor to be considered is a poor intrauterine environment. 3. In animals, maternal macro- and micronutrient malnutrition can lead to reduced nephron endowment. Nephron deficiency, in turn, can render blood pressure salt sensitive. The combination of nephron deficiency and excessive salt intake will predispose to hypertension. 4. Human malnutrition may have similar effects, particularly in regions of the world where malnutrition is endemic and where women are disadvantaged by existing social practices. 5. Moreover, high salt intake is endemic in many parts of Asia, including India. Therefore, we propose that maternal malnutrition (leading to reduced nephron endowment), when combined with excessive salt intake postnatally, will account, at least in part, for the unexpectedly high prevalence of hypertension in disadvantaged rural communities in India and elsewhere.
The U.S. correctional system and the older prisoner.	Although older prisoners may seem an unlikely article topic, the reality is that the likelihood of health care providers encountering a prisoner who has been released is high. In addition, men age 50 and older are the fastest growing age cohort in prisons. Older prisoners consume disproportional health care resources of correctional institutions. Long histories of no medical care, alcohol and substance abuse, and poor diet contribute to a 10- to 11.5-year addition to chronological age and contribute to the risk for chronic conditions, which are prevalent, often lead to functional impairments, and require careful and deliberate management strategies. This is, however, not that different from the "free world," where chronic illnesses account for the greatest cost burden and disability in the United States. Consequently, health care providers need an understanding of the challenges faced by this vulnerable population, as well as issues related to the graying of American prisoners.
Health policy: if you don't know where you're going, any road will take you.	It is not surprising that our health care system seems stalled in a developmental time warp, insulated from pressures to change. Everybody knows what should be changed, but changed to what? There is no national health policy that provides the context to redesign the health care system or even plan its incremental improvement. The self-interest ethos of the 1980s allowed decades of health and social advances to be rescinded with hardly a whisper of outrage. The more sophisticated our medical technology became, the more indifferent was the response to the real health needs of our society. Neither a society nor a health care system can survive without virtue or a cause that supersedes individual interests. Our health care cannot progress without an articulated purpose, a common vision expressed as policy that eliminates ambiguity of purpose, ambivalence towards performance standards, conflicts of principles, and contradictions of goals. The challenge calls for great leadership--to define policies that reverse the decline in both the indices of health and the political will to address the public good. To attempt less would allow this country's health care system to go down any road the vagaries of our political process take it.
Research with the doubly vulnerable population of individuals who abuse alcohol: an ethical dilemma.	Individuals who have maladaptive patterns of drinking alcohol fall into the category of vulnerable research participants for many reasons, not the least of which includes the stigma often placed on individuals who abuse alcohol. Vulnerable subgroups within the population of people who abuse alcohol include women; older adults; incarcerated, socioeconomically disadvantaged, and mentally ill individuals; as well as people from racial minorities. Thus, as research participants, individuals who abuse alcohol can be labeled a doubly vulnerable population. Belonging to more than one population simultaneously can lead to a compromised ability to protect one's own interests or greater susceptibility to harm related to participation in research studies. Arguments against including people who abuse alcohol as research participants will be presented, followed by the argument for including theses individuals, which is suggested as the more ethically sound of the two points of view.
Applying Dixon and Dixon's Integrative Model for Environmental Health Research toward a critical analysis of childhood lead poisoning in Canada.	Occurrences of childhood lead poisoning resulting from exposure to residential sources of lead is an underresearched area in Canada. Dixon and Dixon's Integrative Model for Environmental Health Research substantiates this claim by grouping Canadian research on this health topic into the model's 4 domains: physiological, vulnerability, epistemological, and health protection. This process is useful not only for identifying research gaps within the Canadian context but also in setting the groundwork for a future critical analysis to illuminate the sociopolitical and economic influences that shape healthcare knowledge, and ultimately, influence how healthcare providers and policy makers produce and use this information.
Elderly persons' experiences of striving to receive care on their own terms in nursing homes.	Elderly persons' participation in and decisions about their own care need more attention. The aim of this study was to gain a deeper understanding of elderly persons' experiences of care and help, and how their lives change in nursing homes. Fifteen elderly persons living in four nursing homes were interviewed about their experiences of needing care and help in their daily life. The interviews were analysed using van Manen's phenomenological approach. Elderly persons' experiences of care and help were described as: a balance between sorrow and relief, a struggle to maintain control and connectedness, managing to live in the present and yet worrying about the future, and an attempt to hide one's vulnerability in order to be accepted and create an inner calm in an exposed situation. In conclusion, important issues were raised concerning elderly persons' perspectives on care and help in daily life in nursing homes.
Supporting people with learning disabilities in acute care.	It is recognised that people with learning disabilities fail to access health screening and that in the past, hospital services failed to meet the needs of this group of patients. This article explains how, through a partnership between the health facilitation and acute liaison team at Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Partnership Trust and staff at University Hospitals Coventry and Warwickshire NHS Trust, these issues have been addressed. The article discusses the protocols, systems and training that have been introduced to raise awareness of the needs of people with learning disabilities, and focuses on the working partnership between the community and hospital settings.
The promotion of family planning by financial payments: the case of Bangladesh.	The government of Bangladesh and the World Bank commissioned a Compensation Payments Study, carried out in 1987, to assess the merits and demerits of payments for sterilizations to clients, medical personnel, and intermediaries who motivate and refer clients. The study conclusively shows that the decision of Bangladeshi men and women to undergo sterilization is a considered and voluntary act, taken in knowledge of the nature and implications of the procedure, and in knowledge of alternative methods of regulating fertility. There is a high degree of client satisfaction among those who have been sterilized, although among clients who had fewer than three children, 25 percent expressed regret that they had been sterilized. Money may be a contributing factor to the decision to become sterilized in a large majority of cases, but a dominant motive for only a very small minority. Payments to referrers have fostered a large number of unofficial, self-employed agents--particularly men who recruit vasectomy cases. These agents provide information about the procedures for being sterilized, particularly to the poor. They also concentrate on sterilizations to the exclusion of other methods, and are prone to minimize the disadvantages and exaggerate the attractions of sterilization.
Implementation effects of GFATM-supported HIV/AIDS projects on the health sector, civil society and affected communities in Peru 2004-2007.	The emergence of opportunities for support from the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria (GFATM) for HIV-related projects has so far generated funding of over US$75 million for three proposals in Peru. The size of this investment creates the need for close monitoring to ensure a reasonable impact. This paper describes the effects of collaboration with the GFATM on key actors involved in HIV-related activities and on decision-making processes; on health sector divisions; on policies and sources of financing; on equity of access; and on stigma and discrimination of vulnerable and affected populations. Data analysed included primary data collected through interviews with key informants, in-depth interviews and group discussions with vulnerable and affected populations, as well as several public documents. Multisectorality, encouraged by the GFATM, is incipient; centralist proposals with limited consultation, a lack of consensus and short preparation times prevail. No accountability mechanisms operate at the Country Coordinating Mechanism (CCM) level regarding CCM members or society as a whole. GFATM-funded activities have required significant input from the public sector, sometimes beyond the capacity of its human resources. A significant increase in HIV funding, in absolute amounts and in fractions of the total budget, has been observed from several sources including the National Treasury, and it is unclear whether this has implied reductions in the budget for other priorities. Patterns of social exclusion of people living with HIV/AIDS are diverse: children and women are more valued; while transgender persons and sex workers are often excluded.
Coping strategies of young mothers at risk of HIV/AIDS in the Kassena-Nankana district of Northern Ghana.	This qualitative study draws on interpretative principles with emphasis on understanding young mothers' vulnerability to HIV/AIDS and explores coping strategies used to mitigate risk of infection in a poor rural setting of Ghana. Young mothers in their mid-twenties to early thirties and their male partners were purposively selected with the assistance of key informants for repeated semi-structured interviews. Respondents included those in monogamous and polygynous marriages with two or more living children, and those with and without formal education. Young mothers in this study setting are confronted with complex realities as childbearing obligations make protective sex less optional. However, more assertive women insist their husbands use condoms when they perceive themselves at risk. We conclude that the advent of HIV may advance the cause of women's reproductive health empowerment by providing women with very strong reasons to minimize HIV risk within marriage.
Vulnerability of Nigerian secondary school to human sex trafficking in Nigeria.	Sex trafficking contributes to the cycle of violence against women, and inflicts global social and health consequences, particularly in this era of HIV/AIDS pandemic. This paper is based on a cross-sectional survey conducted in two urban and two rural schools located in Delta and Edo states of Nigeria. The aim is to assess in-school students' knowledge and awareness of, and attitude toward sex trafficking as a way to understanding their personal vulnerability to trafficking. A semi-structured questionnaire was administered in 2004-2005 to a classroom random sample of 689 adolescents in the age range of 16-20 years. The results show that in-school adolescents are vulnerable to sex trafficking due to poverty (77.2%); unemployment (68.4%); illiteracy (56.1%); and low social status (44.5%). Students in co-ed schools showed higher knowledge and awareness of the serious health consequences of trafficking.
Kenya's cash transfer program: protecting the health and human rights of orphans and vulnerable children.	In Kenya, as in other countries of sub-Saharan Africa heavily burdened by HIV/ AIDS, orphans and vulnerable children (OV/C) face poverty and despair. There is an urgent need to provide a comprehensive response that supports families and communities in their efforts to care for children and safeguard their rights. The government of Kenya has established a cash transfer program that delivers financial and social support directly to the poorest households containing OV/C, with special concern for those children with or affected by HIV/AIDS. The Kenyan effort builds on lessons drawn from research and program development on cash transfers in Latin America, Asia, and Africa, and the Kenyan program offers an opportunity to examine the challenges faced by Kenya, and its responses in the context of international experiences. This paper-based on observation of and interviews with key actors involved in the origins, development, evaluation, and continued strengthening of Kenyas cash transfer program and on the analysis of technical program documents obtained from those key actors--describes the Kenyan cash transfer program in light of human rights issues as they relate to childrens health. It offers one example of how caring for society's most vulnerable members is a collective responsibility to be shared by a country's government, local citizens, and the international community.
No shelter from the storm: reclaiming the right to housing and protecting the health of vulnerable communities in post-Katrina New Orleans.	This article explores human rights- and health-related aspects of the rebuilding process in New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, following the August 2005 assault of Hurricane Katrina. We look at the health and social impacts of post-Katrina redevelopment policies on New Orleans'poor Black communities. We describe systematic violations of poor Black residents' human right to housing, and we explore associations between these rights violations and documented negative trends in community health. The article describes some of the ways that poor constituencies in New Orleans have organized to resist the destruction of their communities and to reclaim their rights to adequate housing, health, and dignity. Post-Katrina violations of the right to housing in New Orleans should be seen as part of a broader pattern in social policy and the control of urban habitats in the United States. Poor Black residents' struggle to assert their human right to housing has implications for the health of local communities and the credibility of democratic processes.
Spirituality and end-of-life care in disadvantaged men dying of prostate cancer.	Despite the positive influence of spiritual coping on the acceptance of a cancer diagnosis, higher spirituality is associated with receipt of more high intensity care at the end of life. The purpose of our study was to assess the association between spirituality and type of end-of-life care received by disadvantaged men with prostate cancer.
Challenges in the delivery of nutrition services to hospital discharged older adults: the community connections demonstration project.	The objective of this project was to explore the effort necessary to transform the Older Americans Act Nutrition Program (OAANP) into core programs within an integrated health care delivery system that serves hospital-discharged older adults in order to assist them in reintegrating into the community. Six OAANPs in six states were funded and provided technical assistance to develop coalitions with hospitals and community organizations. Each demonstration site was unique and faced many challenges in reaching out to a hospitalized vulnerable population. This project also provided opportunities to try out new initiatives and examine their sustainability within the community.
Pharmacovigilance methods in public health programmes: the example of miltefosine and visceral leishmaniasis.	Pharmacovigilance is concerned with the assessment of benefit and harm. Disease burden, status of healthcare delivery through government centres and practitioners, existing pharmacovigilance programmes, relevant pre-marketing studies and the likely effectiveness and risks of drugs must be considered for planning pharmacovigilance activity. The risk of a drug may be known, unknown, potential or specific to the context of the programme. The potential benefits of a public health programme aimed at reducing or eliminating a specific condition will depend on the health burden due to that condition, which is a function of the seriousness of the condition and its frequency, as well as the likely efficacy of the programme in reaching its goals. The present article has outlined an approach to pharmacovigilance for such a donor-funded programme, using pharmacovigilance in leishmaniasis as an example.
HIV and Mexican migrant workers in the United States: a review applying the vulnerable populations conceptual model.	Mexican migrant workers residing in the United States are a vulnerable population at high risk for HIV infection. This article critically appraises the published data surrounding HIV prevalence in this vulnerable group, as seen through the lens of the Vulnerable Populations Conceptual Model. This model demonstrates how exposure to risk and resource availability affect health status. The health status of Mexican migrants in the United States is compromised by a number of factors that increase risk of HIV: limited access to health services, multiple sexual partners, low rates of condom use, men having sex with men, and lay injection practices. Migration from Mexico to the United States has increased the prevalence of HIV in rural Mexico, making this an issue of urgent binational concern. This review highlights the implications for further nursing research, practice, and policy.
Using breast cancer quality indicators in a vulnerable population.	Adherence to quality indicators may be especially important to disease-specific outcomes for uninsured, vulnerable patients. The objective of this study was to measure adherence to National Initiative for Cancer Care Quality (NICCQ) breast cancer quality indicators in a public hospital and compare performance to published rates in a previously collected 5-city cohort.
Because we can: clashes of perspective over researcher obligation in the failed PrEP trials.	This article examines the relationship between bioethics and the therapeutic standards in HIV prevention research in the developing world, focusing on the closure of the pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) trials in the early 2000s. I situate the PrEP trials in the historical context of the vertical transmission debates of the 1990s, where there was protracted debate over the use of placebos despite the existence of a proven intervention. I then discuss the dramatic improvement in the clinical management of HIV and the treatment access movement, and consider how these contexts have influenced research practice. I argue that as HIV prevention trials oblige researchers to observe the rate at which vulnerable people under their care acquire HIV, there is an obligation to provide antiretroviral treatment to seroconverters and other health care benefits that fall within the scope of researchers' entrustment, both to avoid exploitation and to enact reciprocal justice. I argue against propositions that the obligations to provide specific benefits are vague, fall only upon researchers and sponsors, and create injustices by privileging the few over the many. Finally, I contend that the realisation of a broader standard of care in HIV prevention research broadens the role of research from being a simple tool to produce knowledge to a complex intervention that can play a part in the reduction of health disparities.
Accessing vulnerable research populations: an experience with gatekeepers of ethical approval.	Accessing vulnerable populations for research purposes can be difficult, as participants must be sheltered from research that might be insensitive, intrusive, and potentially distressing. People diagnosed with a life-limiting condition may be vulnerable, and involving such people in research samples may be fraught with difficulties. Nevertheless, it is important that these vulnerable populations participate in health and social-care research so that their requirements and opinions can be learnt. This paper describes an experience of proceeding through an ethical approval process for a proposed qualitative research study into the preferred place of death of a group of potentially vulnerable hospice patients. Research of this nature had never been undertaken at the hospice before, and the researchers expected to encounter a degree and variety of gatekeeping when seeking access to this sensitive population.
Medicare's policy on carotid stents limited use to hospitals meeting quality guidelines yet did not hurt disadvantaged.	Medicare began covering the use of carotid stents to treat arterial blockages in 2005 under an innovative policy requiring hospitals to meet quality-of-care benchmarks before seeking reimbursement. By restricting carotid stent provision to a smaller subset of US hospitals than those typically adopting new cardiovascular technologies, this policy could have disproportionately reduced the availability of this technology for minority, low-income, and rural patients. Such patients are often served by hospitals less able than others to meet increasingly stringent quality requirements. However, our analysis of hospitals that provided stents during 2005-07 demonstrated that although 21-38 percent fewer hospitals offered stents than offered other types of interventional cardiovascular procedures, such as heart bypass grafts, stents were no less available in localities with substantial poor, black, or rural populations than they were in other areas. Our study provides important evidence that the carotid stent coverage policy met its goal of limiting the adoption of the technology by hospitals that weren't well prepared to provide it-while still maintaining equitable availability of the technology. Therefore, it may be a useful model for future Medicare coverage decisions.
Pain in underserved community-dwelling Chinese American cancer patients: demographic and medical correlates.	Little is known about cancer pain in Chinese Americans. The objective of this study was to describe the epidemiology of pain in this population. This information is needed to identify and address unmet clinical needs for culturally relevant interventions targeting pain and its consequences.
Transfer of sampling methods for studies on most-at-risk populations (MARPs) in Brazil.	The objective of this paper was to describe the process of transferring two methods for sampling most-at-risk populations: respondent-driven sampling (RDS) and time-space sampling (TSS). The article describes steps in the process, the methods used in the 10 pilot studies, and lessons learned. The process was conducted in six steps, from a state-of-the-art seminar to a workshop on writing articles with the results of the pilot studies. The principal investigators reported difficulties in the fieldwork and data analysis, independently of the pilot sampling method. One of the most important results of the transfer process is that Brazil now has more than 100 researchers able to sample MARPs using RDS or TSS. The process also enabled the construction of baselines for MARPS, thus providing a broader understanding of the dynamics of HIV infection in the country and the use of evidence to plan the national response to the epidemic in these groups.
Implementation of respondent-driven sampling among female sex workers in Brazil, 2009.	Female sex workers are known in Brazil and elsewhere in the world as one of the most-at-risk populations for risk of HIV infection, due to their social vulnerability and factors related to their work. However, the use of conventional sampling strategies in studies on most-at-risk subgroups for HIV is generally problematic, since such subgroups are small in size and are associated with stigmatized behaviors and/or illegal activities. In 1997, a probabilistic sampling technique was proposed for hard-to-reach populations, called Respondent-Driven Sampling (RDS). The method is considered a variant of chain sampling and allows the statistical estimation of target variables. This article describes some assumptions of RDS and all the implementation stages in a study of 2,523 female sex workers in 10 Brazilian cities. RDS proved appropriate for recruiting sex workers, allowing the selection of a probabilistic sample and the collection of previously missing information on this group in Brazil.
Psychotherapy, suicide and foreseeable risks of decompensation by the vulnerable.	Utilising the findings and recommendations in a 2010 coronial inquest in New South Wales into the death of Rebekah Lawrence, a person who had recently completed a personal development course incorporating confronting techniques of regression, run by persons without formal psychotherapeutic skills, this column scrutinises issues arising in relation to unregistered therapies. The evidentiary bases upon which coronial findings of suicide can be made are also examined, along with the effects of the ancient presumption against findings of suicide. In addition, the existence of regulatory controls, as recommended by the New South Wales Deputy State Coroner, are discussed. The grim conclusion arrived at is that the potential exists for further deaths of vulnerable people in the aftermath of the wielding of powerful psychological techniques by persons ill equipped to do so and to identify and respond to the sequelae of their therapies.
Changes in emergency department access between 2001 and 2005 among general and vulnerable populations.	(1) 11.4 million people faced some degree of deterioration in geographic access to emergency care between 2001 and 2005. (2) Residents in rural communities have poorer access to emergency departments at baseline and experienced a greater decline in emergency department access than those living in urban communities between 2001 and 2005. (3) Deteriorating access to emergency departments is more likely to occur in communities with economic hardship and high shares of Hispanic populations, as well as in rural areas that are part of a designated health professional shortage area.
Aged woman's vulnerability related to AIDS]	This article is a systhematic literature review including the period from 1994 to 2009, whose objective was to discuss the aged woman's vulnerability in relation to Acquired Imunodeficiency Syndrome (Aids). The search for scientific texts was accomplished in the following databases: Biblioteca Virtual em Sade, Scientific Eletronic Library Online (SciELO), Literatura Latino-Americana e do Caribe em Cincias da Sade (LILACS) and Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System Online (MEDLINE). The descriptors used were vulnerability, woman and Aids. Eighteen texts were analyzed, including articles in scientific journals, thesis and dissertations. As a conclusion, it was noted that aged women and vulnerability to Aids are directly related, through gender characteristics including submission and that were built historical and socially. We consider as fundamental the development of studies which may generate publications accessible to women, in order to help them see themselves as persons vulnerable to Aids contagion just for being women.
Is Europe prepared to meet the oral health needs of older people?	To discuss the preparedness of the social and health care systems and the health workforce in Europe to manage the increasing general and oral health care needs of older adults.
Household and community HIV/AIDS status and child malnutrition in sub-Saharan Africa: evidence from the demographic and health surveys.	This paper examines the extent to which under five children in households or communities adversely affected by HIV/AIDS are disadvantaged, in comparison with other children in less affected households/communities. The study is based on secondary analysis of the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) data collected during 2003-2008 from 18 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, where the DHS has included HIV test data for adults of reproductive age. We apply multilevel logistic regression models that take into account the effect of contextual community/country level HIV/AIDS factors on child malnutrition. The outcome variable of interest is child undernutrition: stunting, wasting and underweight. The results suggest that across countries in sub-Saharan Africa, children whose mothers are infected with HIV are significantly more likely to be stunted, wasted or underweight compared to their counterparts of similar demographic and socio-economic background whose mothers are not infected. However, the nutritional status of children who are paternal orphans or in households where other adults are HIV positive are not significantly different from non-orphaned children or those in households where no adult is infected with HIV. Other adult household members being HIV positive is, however, associated with higher malnutrition among younger children below the age of one. Further analysis reveals that the effect of mothers' HIV status on child nutritional status (underweight) varies significantly across communities within countries, the effect being lower in communities with generally higher levels of malnutrition. Overall, the findings have important implications for policy and programme efforts towards improved integration of HIV/AIDS and child nutrition services in affected communities and other sub-groups of the population made vulnerable by HIV/AIDS. In particular, children whose mothers are infected with HIV deserve special attention.
Structural vulnerability and health: Latino migrant laborers in the United States.	Latino immigrants in the United States constitute a paradigmatic case of a population group subject to structural violence. Their subordinated location in the global economy and their culturally depreciated status in the United States are exacerbated by legal persecution. Medical Anthropology, Volume 30, Numbers 4 and 5, include a series of ethnographic analyses of the processes that render undocumented Latino immigrants structurally vulnerable to ill health. We hope to extend the social science concept of "structural vulnerability" to make it a useful concept for health care. Defined as a positionality that imposes physical/emotional suffering on specific population groups and individuals in patterned ways, structural vulnerability is a product of class-based economic exploitation and cultural, gender/sexual, and racialized discrimination, as well as complementary processes of depreciated subjectivity formation. A good-enough medicalized recognition of the condition of structural vulnerability offers a tool for developing practical therapeutic resources. It also facilitates political alternatives to the punitive neoliberal policies and discourses of individual unworthiness that have become increasingly dominant in the United States since the 1980s.
Map: study sites in the special issue on structural vulnerability: Latino migrants in the United States.	The map and index presented here accurately represent the places the authors involved in the special theme on structural vulnerability in Latino migrants in the United States (in Medical Anthropology, Volume 30, Numbers 4 and 5) have worked and undertaken research as pertains to the articles they wrote.
The nobodies: neoliberalism, violence, and migration.	In this article I suggest placing structural vulnerability within a complex web of capitalist relations and tease out some of the forces and processes that now produce at an unprecedented rate disposable people who have been displaced and dislocated from their means of survival by a rapacious capitalism. I explore some of the multiple sites of the production and commodification of these "nobodies" to illuminate the intricate relationship between neoliberal economic policies and practices, state-sponsored violence, and international migration. These phenomena point us toward an understanding of the historical dimensions and the power dynamics of profiteering off the poor through the production of their vulnerabilities and the commodification of their very being.
Structural vulnerability and hierarchies of ethnicity and citizenship on the farm.	Every year, the United States employs nearly two million seasonal farm laborers, approximately half of whom are migrants (Rothenberg 1998). This article utilizes one year of participant observation on a berry farm in Washington State to analyze hierarchies of ethnicity and citizenship, structural vulnerability, and health disparities in agriculture in the United States. The farm labor structure is organized along a segregated continuum from US citizen Anglo-American to US citizen Latino, undocumented mestizo Mexican to undocumented indigenous Mexican. The ethnography shows how this structure symbolically reinforces conflations of race with perceptions of civilized and modern subjects. These hierarchies produce what is now understood in medical anthropology as structural vulnerability among those with poor living and housing conditions, producing social disparities in health. The ethnographic data argue against the common presumption that social hierarchies are willed by powerful individuals by showing the structural production of these social inequalities and their concomitant health disparities.
Prime Time: 12-month sexual health outcomes of a clinic-based intervention to prevent pregnancy risk behaviors.	Prime Time, a youth development intervention, aims to reduce pregnancy risk among adolescent girls seeking clinic service who are at high risk for pregnancy. This article examines sexual risk behaviors and hypothesized psychosocial mediators after 12 months of the Prime Time intervention.
Identifying population groups with low palliative care program enrolment using classification and regression tree analysis.	Classification and regression tree (CART) analysis was used to identify subpopulations with lower palliative care program (PCP) enrolment rates. CART analysis uses recursive partitioning to group predictors. The PCP enrolment rate was 72 percent for the 6,892 adults who died of cancer from 2000 and 2005 in two counties in Nova Scotia, Canada. The lowest PCP enrolment rates were for nursing home residents over 82 years (27 percent), a group residing more than 43 kilometres from the PCP (31 percent), and another group living less than two weeks after their cancer diagnosis (37 percent). The highest rate (86 percent) was for the 2,118 persons who received palliative radiation. Findings from multiple logistic regression (MLR) were provided for comparison. CART findings identified low PCP enrolment subpopulations that were defined by interactions among demographic, social, medical, and health system predictors.
Identification of vulnerable individuals in the area surrounding a university hospital: connecting vulnerability, solidarity and healthcare]	In the area around a university hospital in the interior of So Paulo state people are found sleeping, eating or resting on the lawns and surrounding areas, and they linger in such sites for hours. This study sought to identify and characterize vulnerable individuals in the area around the hospital by offering help. Data were collected from November 2007 to October 2008, on a weekly basis and on randomly selected days and times. The people found in these places were identified, and 52 subjects were interviewed. The individuals were, predominantly, females (67.3%), white (51.9%), married (59.6%), had attended school for up to four years (44.2%) and did not have a defined profession (84.6%). Most of them were waiting for bus transportation provided by their hometown administration; the mean waiting time was approximately 90 minutes and most of the subjects had certain needs during the waiting period. Help was offered to 15 individuals who reported specific needs at the moment of the interview. It was concluded that these individuals were in a situation of individual, social and systematic vulnerability, especially in terms of socio-economic vulnerability. They showed reduced self-determination ability and submitted themselves to unfavorable conditions due to their dependence on public services.
Dietetic and nutritional management in a university children's hospital]	Dietetics and nutrition are new, expanding disciplines. Feeding man's cub to ensure the best physical, brain and psychic growth to reach the adult age in a "sane" state is the daily challenge of pediatric dieteticians. The role of dieteticians in a pediatric hospital is essential: optimizing sick children's nutrition. A child is highly vulnerable, above all when he is sick. Unappropriate feeding can put his growth and development, as well as his healing at stake. Numerous studies believe that denutrition in pediatric hospitals prevail by 7 to 45%. A survey has been carried out in two care units in the University Children's Hospital Queen Fabiola in Brussels. For one month, the nutritional hazard has been evaluated in every children admitted in these units. One observes that one third of these children shows a high nutritional hazard, and another third a moderate nutritional hazard. The tracking of the nutritional hazard and the appropriate nutritional care must be an integral part of the care given to any child admitted in hospital. A nutrition unit, with all the attending people involved (doctor, dietician, chemist, nurse), is necessary to improve the nutritional care of the patients.
Co-development of internalizing and externalizing problem behaviors: causal direction and common vulnerability.	Latent growth curve modeling was used to study the co-development of internalizing and externalizing problems in a sample of 2844 Korean fourth graders followed over four years. The project integrated two major theoretical viewpoints positing developmental mechanism: directional model and common vulnerability model. Findings suggest that (a) boys and girls follow different developmental trajectories in both domains in early adolescence; (b) bidirectional progression from initial levels of each domain to the developmental pattern of the other domain emerged among boys, while only unidirectional progression from externalizing to internalizing problem emerged among girls; and (c) all risk factors are not equally risky across domain and gender; parental violence was a common cross-domain risk factor for boys, whereas affiliation with delinquent friends was a common cross-domain risk factor for girls. Implications for future research and intervention were discussed.
Childhood morbidity, household practices and health care seeking for sick children in a tribal district of Maharashtra, India.	To find out the magnitude of childhood morbidities, health care seeking behavior and explore the status of 'some desired practices' at household level during episodes of illness in two tribal blocks of Chandrapur district.
Personalized therapeutics: a potential threat to health equity.	Throughout history, medical advances have been adopted first and preferentially by the well educated and economically advantaged groups. The development of personalized therapeutics holds promise to fundamentally alter the practice of clinical medicine, but if it also is used preferentially by economically advantaged groups, this advance will likely worsen socioeconomic disparities in health. Prospective development of strategies to ensure non- differential access to these therapies may help limit this unintended consequence of medical progress for economically disadvantaged groups.
School screening and parental reminders in increasing dental care for children in need: a retrospective cohort study.	The objective of this study is to assess follow-up dental care received by children given baseline screening and referrals as part of an ongoing clinical trial.
The demographic impact of HIV and AIDS across the family and household life-cycle: implications for efforts to strengthen families in sub-Saharan Africa.	HIV is no longer a new or emerging disease in southern Africa. In the era of HIV and AIDS, families and households have continued to form, build, migrate and dissolve. Children born in the 1980s with the risk of mother-to-child HIV transmission have already gone on to start the next generation of families and households. Isolating the impact of HIV and AIDS on families and households is complex given that the epidemic has become part of the direction and force of contemporary demographic, social and economic processes and trends. Cycles of family and household life have occurred in a changing HIV and AIDS public-health environment, one in which HIV treatment access has increased rapidly. As part of an on-going process to assess the relevance and effectiveness of policies and programmes designed to protect and support children affected by HIV and AIDS, it is necessary to update our knowledge about the family and household circumstances in which children live. This paper summarises findings from a review on the "Demographic Evidence of Family and Household Changes in Response to the Effects of HIV/AIDS in Southern Africa: Implications for Efforts to Strengthen Families". The review examined published literature presenting data from empirical studies, primarily large, cross-sectional or longitudinal population-based or sample surveys. The family or household life-cycle is used as a conceptual and organisational framework. The implications of the demographic evidence are discussed in relation to policy and programme responses to strengthen families and households in the region.
Multiple stressors in Southern Africa: the link between HIV/AIDS, food insecurity, poverty and children's vulnerability now and in the future.	Several countries in Southern Africa now see large numbers of their population barely subsisting at poverty levels in years without shocks, and highly vulnerable to the vagaries of the weather, the economy and government policy. The combination of HIV/AIDS, food insecurity and a weakened capacity for governments to deliver basic social services has led to the region experiencing an acute phase of a long-term emergency. "Vulnerability" is a term commonly used by scientists and practitioners to describe these deteriorating conditions. There is particular concern about the "vulnerability" of children in this context and implications for children's future security. Through a review of literature and recent case studies, and using a widely accepted conceptualisation of vulnerability as a lens, we reflect on what the regional livelihoods crisis could mean for children's future wellbeing. We argue that an increase in factors determining the vulnerability of households - both through greater intensity and frequency of shocks and stresses ("external" vulnerability) and undermined resilience or ability to cope ("internal" vulnerability) - are threatening not only current welfare of children, but also their longer-term security. The two specific pathways we explore are (1) erosive coping strategies employed by families and individuals; and (2) their inability to plan for the future. We conclude that understanding and responding to this crisis requires looking at the complexity of these multiple stressors, to try to comprehend their interconnections and causal links. Policy and programme responses have, to date, largely failed to take into account the complex and multi-dimensional nature of this crisis. There is a misfit between the problem and the institutional response, as responses from national and international players have remained relatively static. Decisive, well-informed and holistic interventions are needed to break the potential negative cycle that threatens the future security of Southern Africa's children.
Families, children, migration and AIDS.	Migration is very often a family affair, and often involves children, directly or indirectly. It may give rise to better quality of life for an entire family, or to bitter disappointment, and may also increase vulnerability to HIV and AIDS. This review, carried out for the Joint Learning Initiative on Children and AIDS, links the literature on "migration", on "HIV and AIDS" and on "families". Three themes are sketched: (1) As both HIV prevalence and circular migration increase, former migrant workers affected by AIDS may return to their families for care and support, especially at the end of life, often under crisis conditions. Families thus lose promising members, as well as sources of support. However, very little is known about the children of such migrants. (2) Following patterns of migration established for far different reasons, children may have to relocate to different places, sometimes over long distances, if their AIDS-affected parents can no longer care for them. They face the same adaptation challenges as other children who move, but complicated by loss of parent(s), AIDS stigma, and often poverty. (3) The issue of migrant families living with HIV has been studied to some extent, but mainly in developed countries with a long history of migration, and with little attention paid to the children in such families. Difficulties include involuntary separation from family members, isolation and lack of support, disclosure and planning for children's care should the parent(s) die and differences in treatment access within the same family. Numerous research and policy gaps are defined regarding the three themes, and a call is made for thinking about migration, families and AIDS to go beyond description to include resilience theory, and to go beyond prevention to include care.
Evidence base for children affected by HIV and AIDS in low prevalence and concentrated epidemic countries: applicability to programming guidance from high prevalence countries.	As global commitment grows to protect and support children affected by HIV and AIDS, questions remain about how best to meet the needs of these children in low prevalence settings and whether information from high prevalence countries can appropriately guide programming in these settings. A 2007 search for the evidence in low prevalence settings on situational challenges of HIV and AIDS-affected children and interventions to address these challenges identified 413 documents. They were reviewed and judged for quality of documentation and scientific rigor. Information was compiled across eight types of challenges (health and health care, nutrition and food security, education, protection, placement, psychosocial development, socioeconomic status, and stigma/discrimination); and also assessed was strength of evidence for situational and intervention findings. Results were compared to three programming principles drawn from research in high prevalence countries: family-centered preventive efforts, treatment, and care; family-focused support to ensure capacity to care for and protect these children; and sustaining economic livelihood of HIV and AIDS-affected households. Findings show that children affected by HIV and AIDS in low prevalence settings face increased vulnerabilities similar to those in high prevalence settings. These findings support seeking and testing programmatic directions for interventions identified in high prevalence settings. However, low prevalence settings/countries are extremely diverse, and the strength of the evidence base among them was mixed (strong, moderate, and weak in study design and documentation), geographically limited, and had insufficient evidence on interventions to draw conclusions about how best to reduce additional vulnerabilities of affected children. Information on family, economic, sociocultural, and political factors within local contexts will be vital in the development of appropriate strategies to mitigate vulnerabilities.
Animal models and medical countermeasures development for radiation-induced lung damage: report from an NIAID Workshop.	Since 9/11, there have been concerns that terrorists may detonate a radiological or nuclear device in an American city. Aside from several decorporation and blocking agents for use against internal radionuclide contamination, there are currently no medications within the Strategic National Stockpile that are approved to treat the immediate or delayed complications resulting from accidental exposure to radiation. Although the majority of research attention has focused on developing countermeasures that target the bone marrow and gastrointestinal tract, since they represent the most acutely radiosensitive organs, individuals who survive early radiation syndromes will likely suffer late effects in the months that follow. Of particular concern are the delayed effects seen in the lung that play a major role in late mortality seen in radiation-exposed patients and accident victims. To address these concerns, the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases convened a workshop to discuss pulmonary model development, mechanisms of radiation-induced lung injury, targets for medical countermeasures development, and end points to evaluate treatment efficacy. Other topics covered included guidance on the challenges of developing and licensing drugs and treatments specific to a radiation lung damage indication. This report reviews the data presented, as well as key points from the ensuing discussion.
Transactional sex as a form of child sexual exploitation and abuse in Rwanda: implications for child security and protection.	To illuminate the different manifestations of transactional sexual exploitation and abuse among Rwanda's children in order to inform effective responses by policies, programs, and communities.
Factors associated with ambulance use among patients with low-acuity conditions.	The use of ambulances for low-acuity medical complaints depletes emergency medical services (EMS) resources that could be used for higher-acuity conditions and contributes to emergency department (ED) overcrowding and ambulance diversion. Objective. We sought to understand the characteristics of patients who use ambulances for low-acuity conditions. We hypothesized that patients who arrive to the ED by ambulance for low-acuity conditions are more likely to be members of vulnerable populations.
Funding health and social services for older people - a qualitative study of care recipients in the last year of life.	This study explores the views of older adults who are receiving health and social care at the end of their lives, on how services should be funded, and describes their health-related expenditure.
'Boots for my Sancho': structural vulnerability among Latin American day labourers in Berkeley, California.	This paper addresses the structural vulnerability of Latin American undocumented day labourers in Northern California, as it is expressed in conversations on street corners where they wait for work. The intimate aspects of migrant experience become exemplified in jokes about the Sancho - a hypothetical character who has moved in on a day labourer's family and who enjoys the money he sends home. Joking turns to more serious topics of nostalgia and tensions with family far away, elements that come together with the fears and threats of labour on the corner and affect the way day labourers see themselves. Sexuality is rearticulated in the absence of women and masculinity becomes enmeshed in the contingencies of unregulated work and long-term separation from the people the men support. Together, these elements result in the articulation of threat to the immigrant body itself, which is exemplified by anxieties over homosexual propositions on the corner.
Nurse practitioner knowledge of child sexual abuse in children with cognitive disabilities.	The purpose of this study was to describe the knowledge level of nurse practitioners regarding symptoms of child sexual abuse in children with cognitive disabilities. A total sample of 43 nurse practitioners from two professional nurse practitioner organizations was surveyed to assess child sexual abuse symptoms identification in intellectually disabled children using a revised edition of the Child Sexual Abuse Knowledge Survey. Data collected showed nurse practitioners have deficits in identifying various parts of prepubescent female genitalia. The majority of nurse practitioners did not check genitalia in regular physical exams, did not feel competent to perform this type of evaluation, and were not aware of their professional organizations' position regarding checking for child sexual abuse. When assessing a child with an intellectual disability, nurse practitioners must accurately assess physical symptoms and behaviors that could have resulted from sexual abuse. Examining children for sexual abuse is a required duty of the nurse practitioner as evidenced by the position statements of the various professional organizations and nurse practitioners must be aware of their required scope of practice.
Planning and implementation of community oral health programs for caries management in children.	Tooth decay or cavities (dental caries) can have a significant impact on children's quality of life, causing pain, infection, and other problems in the oral environment. Good oral health is a fundamental element of good general health for children, yet dental caries is still prevalent among children in many countries. Dental caries is well-understood, and effective prevention is an attainable goal. Dental professionals should actively engage with communities--in particular, the underprivileged--to identify dental caries problems and implement appropriate and effective community oral health programs (COHPs) to improve oral health and reduce oral health inequalities. This paper discusses COHPs as well as the steps involved in caries prevention for children. These steps cannot ensure the success of every COHP, but they are helpful for developing, integrating, expanding, and enhancing them. The effectiveness of COHPs for the prevention of caries in children varies from country to country, according to cultural, social, economic, and health care settings. Careful consideration of the local situation is required when selecting the elements of COHPs.
Development, acceptability, and nutritional characteristics of a low-cost, shelf-stable supplementary food product for vulnerable groups in Kenya.	Food-based approaches have been advocated as the best strategies to curb hunger and malnutrition in developing countries. The use of low-cost, locally available, nutritious foods in the development of supplementary foods has been recommended.
Social adversity, stress, and alcohol problems: Are racial/ethnic minorities and the poor more vulnerable?	Experiences of racial/ethnic bias and unfair treatment are risk factors for alcohol problems, and population differences in exposure to these social adversities (i.e., differential exposure) may contribute to alcohol-related disparities. Differential vulnerability is another plausible mechanism underlying health disparities, yet few studies have examined whether populations differ in their vulnerability to the effects of social adversity on psychological stress and the effects of psychological stress on alcohol problems.
"Being home away from home": vulnerability, religiosity and social support among Brazilian migrants in Japan]	This paper analyzes the role of religiosity and the impact of social support in the lives of Brazilian migrants in Japan. Despite being in Japan for over two decades, the Brazilians are not integrated into the local society. This social alienation has a negative effect on the health of the migrants, making them prone to mental and physical distress. The lack of language skills prevents the migrants from looking for professional help, and even if they seek for it they cannot express themselves properly. In this context, the migrants found support among their compatriots and religious groups. This essay is based on ethnographic research carried out in Japan between 2003 and 2006 and focuses on the work and activities of the Catholics among the Brazilian migrants. The data collection was based on 15 semi-structured interviews, which were conducted among the members. Besides the religious support, the group offers the migrants a social support space for their daily lives in Japan. Therefore, the group represents a place of socialization and social support for many Brazilians, which helps them to overcome their feelings of vulnerability. The ecclesiastic power, on the other hand, regulates the migrants' behavior through an ethos and a world view legitimized by the group.
The meaning of the performance of the Family Health Strategy team in a socially vulnerable community]	This study sought to understand the meaning of the performance of a Family Health Strategy team in a socially vulnerable community. Grounded Data Theory was used as a methodological benchmark and the data collection technique consisted of interviews with twenty-five Family Health Strategy professionals between July and December of 2009. Data analysis revealed that the Family Health Strategy can be seen as a facilitator and stimulator of the process of expansion and consolidation of healthcare networks. They represent a new approach in community intervention, by viewing the human being as a multi-dimensional and singular being, inserted in his/her real context. A new assistential model is essentially being developed by the reorganization of healthcare practices, assisted by the multiplicity of complex relationships, interactions and associations that occur within the social and family context.
Socially differentiated cardiac rehabilitation: can we improve referral, attendance and adherence among patients with first myocardial infarction?	The comprehensive cardiac rehabilitation (CR) programme after myocardial infarction (MI) improves quality of life and results in reduced cardiac mortality and recurrence of MI. Hospitals worldwide face problems with low participation rates in rehabilitation programmes. Inequality in recruitment and participation among low educated and socially vulnerable patients must be addressed to lower inequality in post-MI health. Our aim was to improve referral, attendance, and adherence rates among socially vulnerable patients by systematic screening and by offering a socially differentiated cardiac rehabilitation programme.
An end to chronic homelessness: an introduction to the 100,000 homes campaign.	Across the nation communities are rapidly identifying and housing their most vulnerable people experiencing homelessness. Building on these examples, Community Solutions and the Institute for Healthcare Improvement have launched the 100,000 Homes Campaign, an historic effort to eliminate chronic homelessness by July 2014.
A methodological approach to improve the sexual health of vulnerable female populations: incentivized peer-recruitment and field-based STD testing.	Transactional sex has been associated with increased risk of adverse health outcomes, including sexually transmitted infections (STIs).
Rural medical-legal partnership and advocacy: a three-year follow-up study.	Medical-legal partnerships perform advocacy services for vulnerable and underserved populations, who are burdened disproportionately by legal and medical problems. This study aimed to examine the effectiveness and projected sustainability of a rural medical-legal partnership (MLP).
Implementation of Massachusetts health insurance reform with vulnerable populations in a safety-net setting.	This qualitative study examines the experience of racial and ethnic minorities receiving behavioral health care in a safety net setting during the early process of health insurance reform in Massachusetts. Three rounds of interviews were conducted between August 2007 and May 2009, collecting information from patients (n=65) on the experience of health reform and delivery of mental health care. Four categories of enrollees transitioning into health reform emerged over the course of the study that grouped into a typology of experiences with reform: early enrollees, middle enrollees, late enrollees, and multiple switchers. With support, a majority of the sample transitioned smoothly to the new health insurance mechanisms. However, some experienced administrative confusion and disruption in mental health care during the transition. Administrative policies providing special accommodations for individuals with mental health disorders and other vulnerable populations may be important to consider during the transition to health insurance reform.
Xerostomia and salivary hypofunction in vulnerable elders: prevalence and etiology.	The goal of this article is to review existing research on the prevalence and etiology of dry mouth in the vulnerable elders and identify knowledge gaps.
General practitioners facing social inequalities in health: which power to act?]	The link between social inequalities and health has been known for many years, as attested by Villerm's work on the "mental and physical status of the working class" (1840). We have more and more insight into the nature of this relationship, which embraces not only material deprivation, but also psychological mechanisms related to social and interpersonal problems. Defining our possible role as physicians to fight against these inequalities has become a public health priority. Instruments and leads, which are now available to help us in our daily practice, are presented here.
The unwanted heroes: war invalids in Poland after World War I.	This article focuses on the unique and hitherto unknown history of disabled ex-servicemen and civilians in interwar Poland. In 1914, thousands of Poles were conscripted into the Austrian, Prussian, and Russian armies and forced to fight against each other. When the war ended and Poland regained independence after more than one hundred years of partition, the fledgling government was unable to provide support for the more than three hundred thousand disabled war victims, not to mention the many civilians left injured or orphaned by the war. The vast majority of these victims were ex-servicemen of foreign armies, and were deprived of any war compensation. Neither the Polish government nor the impoverished society could meet the disabled ex-servicemen's medical and material needs; therefore, these men had to take responsibility for themselves and started cooperatives and war-invalids-owned enterprises. A social collaboration between Poland and America, rare in Europe at that time, was initiated by the Polish community in the United States to help blind ex-servicemen in Poland. 
Effect of yoga on cognitive abilities in schoolchildren from a socioeconomically disadvantaged background: a randomized controlled study.	The objective of this study was to assess the effect of yoga, compared to physical activity on the cognitive performance in 7-9 year-old schoolchildren from a socioeconomic disadvantaged background.
Changing health outcomes of vulnerable populations through nursing's influence on neighborhood built environment: a framework for nursing research.	The purpose of this article is to present a framework for nurses to study the impact of built environment on health, particularly in vulnerable populations.
Predictors of high-energy foods and beverages: a longitudinal study among socio-economically disadvantaged adolescents.	While socio-economically disadvantaged adolescents tend to have poor dietary intakes, some manage to eat healthily. Understanding how some disadvantaged adolescents restrict high-energy foods and beverages may inform initiatives promoting healthier diets among this population. The present investigation aimed to: (i) identify disadvantaged adolescents' high-energy food and beverage intakes; and (ii) explore cross-sectional and longitudinal associations between intrapersonal, social and environmental factors and disadvantaged adolescents' high-energy food intakes.
If I value myself, I value school: the protective effect of self-esteem among abused females.	Children who have been severely maltreated tend to perform significantly below their non-maltreated peers in standardized tests, earn lower grades and have the most discipline issues in the school setting. There is evidence that self-esteem (SE) may be a protective factor for youth with regard to negative emotional outcomes. The role of self-esteem needs to be explored further in more collectivistic cultures. The purpose of this study was to explore the relationship between physical abuse, SE and school attitudes. Participants included 14 females rescued from a city landfill in Nicaragua (ages 7-17 years, M=12.44), half of whom had reported being beaten. SE and attitude toward school (ATS) were assessed using the Spanish Behavior Assessment System for Children. Grade point average (GPA) was obtained from their schools. Females who were beaten had significantly lower SE and a more negative ATS. Their GPA was lower, but not significantly. When SE and abuse were considered together, the effect of abuse on school attitudes was non-significant, suggesting that SE is a protective factor for the effects of abuse on ATS.
Children and young people in out-of-home care - improving access to primary care.	This article forms part of our 'Access' series for 2012, profiling organisations that provide primary healthcare to groups who are disadvantaged or have difficulty accessing mainstream services. The aim of this series is to describe the area of need, the innovative strategies that have been developed by specific organisations to address this need, and make recommendations to help GPs improve access to disadvantaged populations in their own community.
Personal responsibility in oral health: ethical considerations.	Personal responsibility is a powerful idea supported by many values central to West European thought. On the conceptual level personal responsibility is a complex notion. It is important to separate the concept of being responsible for a given state of affairs from the concept of holding people responsible by introducing measures that decrease their share of available resources. Introducing personal responsibility in oral health also has limitations of a more practical nature. Knowledge, social status and other diseases affect the degree to which people can be said to be responsible for their poor oral health. These factors affect people's oral health and their ability to take care of it. Both the conceptual and practical issues at stake are not reasons to abandon the idea of personal responsibility in oral health, but they do affect what the notion means and when it is reasonable to hold people responsible. They also commit people who support the idea of personal responsibility in oral health to supporting the idea of societal responsibility for mitigating the effects of factors that diminish people's responsibility and increase the available information and knowledge in the population.
Unexpected high prevalence of HPV 90 infection in an underserved population: is it really a low-risk genotype?	Human papillomavirus 90 (HPV 90) is a rarely reported genotype worldwide, with few data available to characterize its prevalence, distribution, and disease association.
Preference for physician vs. nurse-initiated opt-out screening on HIV test acceptance.	Provider-initiated opt-out HIV screening suggests that providers should routinely order HIV tests unless a patient declines. However, data on how providers will respond to this new screening model are scarce. Documented concerns from the providers' perspectives have included time constraints of a typical patient encounter, and discomfort with discussing sexual history and risk behavior with patients. To address these potential barriers, nurse-initiated screening has been proposed as an approach to increasing screening rates in general medical and urgent care settings. This study compares patient acceptability of provider-initiated opt-out HIV screening with nurse-initiated opt-out HIV screening among 220 patients between the ages of 18-64 from two publically funded "safety-net" outpatient clinics in Los Angeles County. Our study found that 77% of patients agreed to HIV testing using opt-out screening, and that HIV test acceptance was higher with the physician-initiated opt-out model compared with the nurse-initiated opt-out model (adjusted odds ratios = 2.92; 95% CI = 1.37-6.22). These findings indicate that adding opt-out screening to primary care providers responsibilities may be an acceptable and effective strategy for addressing the perennially low HIV testing rates, particularly among low income, traditionally underserved patient populations among whom the epidemic is expanding most rapidly. 
Sociodemographic factors associated with healthy eating and food security in socio-economically disadvantaged groups in the UK and Victoria, Australia.	To investigate the associations between sociodemographic factors and both diet indicators and food security among socio-economically disadvantaged populations in two different (national) contextual settings.
Characteristics of violence among high-risk adolescent girls.	Recent evidence demonstrates increasing rates of involvement with violence among adolescent girls. The objective of this study was to describe the types and sources of violence experienced within social contexts of adolescent girls at high risk for pregnancy.
Improving equity by removing healthcare fees for children in Burkina Faso.	This study evaluated the effects on healthcare access inequities of an intervention exempting children under 5 years from user fees in Burkina Faso.
Youth initiated mentoring: investigating a new approach to working with vulnerable adolescents.	This study examines youth initiated mentoring (YIM), a new approach to mentoring in which youth nominate mentors from among the non-parental adults within their existing social networks (e.g., teachers, family friends, extended family members). YIM is currently being implemented through the National Guard Youth ChalleNGe Program (NGYCP), an intensive residential intervention program for youth ages 16-18 who have dropped out or been expelled from high school. This study employed a mixed methods explanatory design, drawing on quantitative data from a national longitudinal evaluation of NGYCP (N = 1,173) and qualitative data from a subsample of participants (N = 30) in the evaluation. Results indicated that more enduring mentoring relationships were associated with increased retention of educational, vocational, and behavioral outcomes 3 years following entry into the study. Qualitative data suggested that, when relationships endured, mentors contributed to improvements in participants' educational and occupational success, quality of relationships with parents, peers, and others, and self-concept by providing social-emotional support, instrumental support, and guidance. Results also revealed that relationships were more likely to endure when youth chose their mentors on their own (rather than receiving help from parents or program staff) and when mentors were of the same race as youth. Implications for research and practice are discussed.
Disparate health implications stemming from the propensity of elderly and medically fragile populations to shelter in place during severe storm events.	Chronic conditions, disability limitations (mobility, cognitive, and sensory), and the need for assistance with activities of daily living are characteristics of elderly and medically fragile populations. Theory suggests that households with these vulnerability attributes are more likely to suffer storm-induced adverse and prolonged health consequences and, therefore, ought to evidence an increased propensity to evacuate prior to a severe storm event. Yet despite being more sensitive to storm disruption, the elderly and medically fragile populations are only slightly more likely to evacuate in the face of impending storms. This suggests, for these groups, there may be other factors such as income, transportation, and social and familial networks that may be attenuating the propensity to evacuate. The public health significance is found in that the propensity to shelter in place, rather than evacuate, may contribute to disparate health outcomes. Data illustrating the prevalence of these conditions and the propensity to shelter in place are derived from a sampling of Hampton Roads households following the 2011 Hurricane Irene. 
Engaging women volunteers of high socioeconomic status in supporting socioeconomically disadvantaged tuberculosis patients in Chiang Rai, Thailand.	The 2008 tuberculosis (TB) surveillance of Chiang Rai Hospital, Chiang Rai, Thailand reported that 8.4% of Thai, 22.7% of hill tribe minority and 25% of migrant patients (n=736) defaulted from treatment.
Acute rheumatic fever: the danger for our children.	THE NEW Zealand Government's allocation of $21 million in the 2013 Budget for treatment and prevention of acute rheumatic fever (ARF) highlights the impact this disease has on the long-term health of New Zealand's marginalised communities. ARF is a disease confined largely to developing nations and is regarded in the developed world as a disease of deprivation and poverty, yet New Zealand has a high incidence, Largely within Maori and Pacific populations. ARF arises from an often mild throat infection caused by streptococcal bacteria. The mechanisms by which this microorganism triggers rheumatic fever and its cardiac sequelae are complex. Awareness of these mechanisms can help health professionals understand prevention and treatment strategies designed to reduce the burden of ARF in vulnerable communities.
Piecework (ganyu) as an indicator of household vulnerability in rural Zambia.	Piecework (ganyu) is short-term, casual labor common in rural Zambia and neighboring countries. Reliance on piecework as a strategy to cope during food shortages in the rainy/cultivation season can restrict own-farm production, and thus, is regarded as an indicator of a household's vulnerability to food insecurity. Based on a household's level of participation in piecework, we explore this claim in rural Zambia using survey data collected during the rainy and dry seasons in 2009. We argue that seasonal assessments are essential if such dependence on piecework is used as a robust measure of a household's vulnerability to food insecurity. 
Cultivating professional responsibility in a dental hygiene curriculum.	To prepare dental hygienists for future roles in the health care system, dental hygiene education must prepare graduates with skills, ethics, and values that align with professional responsibility. The objective of this study was to determine the effectiveness of curricular changes designed to develop professional identity and responsibility over the entire span of the dental hygiene curriculum. Twenty-four dental hygiene students at the University of Minnesota were surveyed about their attitudes toward access to dental care, society's and health professionals' responsibility to care for the underserved, and their personal efficacy to provide care for the underserved. Surveys were conducted at three time points in the curriculum. The Attitudes Toward Health Care instrument adapted by Holtzman for dental use was used to survey the students. The findings indicate that this institution's curricular changes were effective in cultivating professional responsibility among these students. Their attitude scores increased across the six-semester curriculum, and students in their last semester of the program believed that all individuals have a right to dental care and that society has an obligation to provide dental care. These students' sense of obligation to care for the needy became stronger and their perceptions of their own ability to impact the community and act as an agent of change also increased. 
Effect of an enrichment program on DAT scores of potential dental students from disadvantaged backgrounds.	The objectives of this study were to explore whether Dental Admission Test (DAT) training in an enrichment program for potential dental students increases the participants' Perceptual Achievement Test (PAT) and academic average (AA) scores and whether the length of the program and personal factors such as the number of disadvantages correlate with the DAT scores. Data were collected from 361 students in the summer enrichment program at one dental school between 1994 and 2011. Their baseline, midpoint, and end of program PAT and AA DAT scores were collected. Seventy students self-reported official scores. These students' PAT scores increased from 14.40 at baseline to 17.09 at midpoint to 17.84 at program end (p<0.001), and their AA scores increased from 13.53 to 14.09 to 15.12 (p<0.001). Their official scores were higher than the beginning scores (PAT: 14.42 vs. 16.15; p<0.001; AA: 13.61 vs. 16.23; p<0.001). The longer the program, the more the students improved their official scores (PAT: r=0.35; p=0.003; AA: r=0.24; p=0.044). The more disadvantages the students self-reported, the better their official test scores were (PAT: r=0.40; p<0.001; AA: r=0.43; p<0.001). This study found that the DAT training during summer enrichment programs for students from disadvantaged backgrounds led to significant improvements in their DAT scores. The longer the programs, the more the students improved; and the more disadvantages the students had, the more they benefitted. 
How musical engagement promotes well-being in education contexts: the case of a young man with profound and multiple disabilities.	Students with profound intellectual disabilities disorders (IDDs) have the right to participate in educational opportunities that recognize their unique resources and needs, as do all children. Because of their specific communication challenges, positive relationships with attentive communication partners are critical for success. In fact, the power of positive relationships in schools is recognized to be connected to student well-being more broadly. This article examines the case of one young man with profound IDD and his relationship with his music therapist using a duo-ethnographic informed paradigmatic case study. Video analysis based on multi-voice perspectives is used to generate hermeneutic phenomenological findings to closely examine the relationship between a young man with profound IDD and a music therapist. The voices of four allied health researchers were also gathered to inform the authors' construction of an informed commentary on the phenomenon. The results suggest that the essence lay in a combination of attentive, responsive and creative being with the other person over time. Four principles of musical engagement were identified in the video footage as critical to the meaningful relationships through music: the music therapist listens; the music therapist takes responsibility for structure; spontaneous initiation is sought from the young person; and the relationship is built over time. These concepts are contextualized within a discussion of student well-being that is underpinned by positive relationships and leads to students achieving their full potential within diverse school contexts. 
Tweens at risk: examining car safety practices in four economically disadvantaged urban elementary schools in Virginia.	Children aged 8- to 12-years-old ("tweens") are at high risk for crash injury, and motor vehicle crashes are their leading cause of death.
Protocols for protection of human participants: a comparison of five countries.	Research ethics protocols relating to human participants were compared across five countries, namely, Australia, Azerbaijan, Iran, the Philippines, and South Africa. These countries were considered to be geographically and culturally diverse, as well as representing both developed and developing countries. The extent to which the research participant is protected across cultures and countries was investigated, with particular focus on the use of informed consent procedures. It was argued that current ethical guidelines and practices fail to ensure the protection of the most vulnerable participants within these cultures. Informed consent mechanisms also often fail to consider cultural differences in self-concept, understanding of research methods, and power differences between researchers and participants. Discussion of these ethical challenges and recommendations for research ethics development within these cultures and countries are discussed. 
Sustaining engagement and partnership: model of enhancing cultural capital among nonaffiliated IRB members.	Although federal regulations require the presence of at least one nonaffiliated member on the roster of an institutional review board (IRB), little research exists about how to foster their participation and satisfaction. Guided by principles of justice and diversity, the Kaiser Permanente Southern California IRB adapted the sociological concept of "cultural capital" to develop training and support with its nonaffiliated IRB members. Using in-depth qualitative interviews with four past and current nonaffiliated IRB members, we describe how our initial and ongoing activities enhanced their ability to analyze, communicate, and complete the ethical review of research. This case study is situated in the gaps of existing research about nonaffiliated IRB members by providing insights into how to sustain their engagement while protecting the rights of research volunteers, particularly from vulnerable communities. 
How IRBs view and make decisions about social risks.	Whether and how IRBs assess social risks remains unclear, with little empirical investigation. I contacted leaders of 60 IRBs, and interviewed IRB leaders from 34 (response rate = 55%) and additionally, 12 members and administrators. IRBs struggle to assess and balance social risks and benefits, and vary in whether, how, and how much to do so, and how to balance these against individual risks/benefits. Risks to a group affect individuals within it. Hence, social risks can include indirect individual risks, raising ambiguities. Dilemmas emerge: e.g., how much responsibility researchers and IRBs have for addressing broader health inequities. These data, the first to examine how IRBs make decisions about social risks, reveal how IRBs face critical challenges, dilemmas, and ambiguities. 
Educational advantage.	This issue of JERHRE examines informed consent requirements as they arise in diverse countries and cultures, and in relation to level of risk of the research and vulnerability of the potential participants. It also examines issues of literacy as they affect informed consent. And it examines whether research participants want to be informed. Adequate informed consent is a statement that is meaningful and understandable by the particular research participant and that allows the participant free choice regarding participation. The way in which an adequate consent procedure is administered must, by definition, depend on the level of literacy of the potential research participants, and the nature and values of the culture of the potential participants. An implication of these requirements is that Western consent procedures are likely to violate ethical standards when employed in non-Western cultures. Educational activities presented below will enable readers to consolidate their knowledge and understanding of these issues. Written informed consent statements are not valid for use with research participants who lack literacy. The level of literacy required depends on the complexity of the research topic. In Clough et al., we find that cultural differences in self-concept, understanding of research methods, level of education, and deference to researchers challenge researchers to modify standard consent procedures to render them valid in some cultural contexts. In Abou Zeina et al., we find an even more complex problem of communicating patients' rights to illiterate patients in an Egyptian public hospital: not only can they not read, but they consider "patients' rights" as the least of their problems. In Iverson et al., we find still different issues concerning the scientific literacy of surrogate decision makers for critically ill patients. And in Ghandour et al., we find in Lebanon, within a very large sample of socioeconomically diverse students, a virtually total lack of interest in being informed before participating in a survey on a highly sensitive topic. For those of us who would unthinkingly impose standard Western consent procedures on everyone, these four articles may have much to teach us. 
Guidance synthesis. Medical research for and with older people in Europe: proposed ethical guidance for good clinical practice: ethical considerations.	In Europe the population is ageing rapidly. Older people are taking many medicinal products daily and these may not necessarily be suitable for them. Publications show that older patients are underrepresented in clinical trials, especially those over 75 years, with multiple co-morbidities, concomitant treatments and/or frailty. This document provides a summary of recommendations on ethical aspects of clinical trials with older people, who may in some cases be considered a vulnerable patient population. The EFGCP's Geriatric Medicine Working Party (GMWP) has developed this guidance to promote such research and to support health care professionals in their efforts. ETHICAL, SCOPE AND CONTEXT: The definition of a geriatric patient is reviewed. Frail and vulnerable patients, who are a minority of geriatric patients, should be included whenever it is relevant. The legal context is described. THE PROCESS OF INFORMED CONSENT: All adults should be presumed capable of consent, unless proven otherwise; informed consent must be sought for all older people who are able to consent. A simple, short and easy-to-understand information sheet and consent form will contribute to improving the readability and understanding of the older participant. A participant guide and the use of a simple tool to ensure decision making capacity, are recommended. Whenever older people are unable to consent, their assent should be sought systematically using adequate information, in addition to seeking the consent of their legal or authorised representative as appropriate. ETHICS COMMITTEES: Research ethics committees need internal and/or external geriatric expertise to balance the benefits and risks of research in older people and to appreciate and recognise their autonomy. DESIGN AND ANALYSES: Design and Analyses should be adapted to the objectives with appropriate outcomes and are not different from other clinical trials.
HIV prevalence and related risk behaviours among female partners of male injecting drugs users in Iran: results of a bio-behavioural survey, 2010.	Sexual partners of injecting drug users (IDUs) are at high risk of HIV infection, yet data for such populations are scarce worldwide, particularly in the Middle East and North African region. This study measured and compared the prevalence of HIV, hepatitis C (HCV), hepatitis B (HBV) and related behavioural factors in male IDUs (MIDUs), their main female sexual partners who were also injecting drug users (FIDUPs) and their main non-injecting female partners (FNIDUPs).
Epidemiology of paediatric burns in Lithuania: focus on a vulnerable population exposed to the risk of scalds at home without hot tap water supply.	To describe the epidemiology of paediatric burns in Lithuania, identify the trends of burn occurrence, the vulnerable population and aetiology.
Rethinking the vulnerability of minority populations in research.	The Belmont Report, produced in 1979 by a United States government commission, includes minority populations among its list of vulnerable research participants. In this article, we consider some previous attempts to understand the vulnerability of minorities in research, and then provide our own account. First we examine the question of the representation of minorities in research. Then we argue that the best understanding of minorities, vulnerability, and research will begin with a broad understanding of the risk of individual members of minority groups to poor health outcomes. We offer a typology of vulnerability to help with this task. Finally, we show how researchers should be guided by this broad analysis in the design and execution of their research. 
Redressing past wrongs: changing the common rule to increase minority voices in research.	Numerous diseases disproportionately affect African Americans across socioeconomic, age, gender, and geographic groups. Despite the need for research into these disparities, African Americans are often underrepresented in research. The Tuskegee Syphilis Study receives much of the blame for this problem, but other contributing factors have also been identified. To date, government policies seeking to increase African American participation have had limited success, and recently proposed changes to the Common Rule do not address this problem. Therefore, we have proposed 3 changes: treating racial minorities as vulnerable, requiring community consultation in minority research, and increasing minority representation on institutional review boards. Coupled with other efforts, these changes could help increase minority representation in researching health disparities. 
Psychiatric care for asylum seekers in Geneva: a multidisciplinary approach for individualized care]	Asylum seekers constitute a vulnerable population insofar as they are submitted to numerous stress factors which facilitate the emergence of mental disorders, such as low socio-economic status, forced separation from loved ones and exposure to violence. Asylum seekers who consult at our community psychiatry facility usually have short-term residence permits, live in collective housing and do not speak the local language. The most frequent diagnoses are depressive disorder (64.7%) and post-traumatic stress disorder (34.5%). Due to their specific clinical and social situation and to the involvement of several professionals in these situations, a specialized psychiatric intervention coordinated with the rest of the network seems necessary.
A systematic review of peer-support programs for smoking cessation in disadvantaged groups.	The burden of smoking is borne most by those who are socially disadvantaged and the social gradient in smoking contributes substantially to the health gap between the rich and poor. A number of factors contribute to higher tobacco use among socially disadvantaged populations including social (e.g., low social support for quitting), psychological (e.g., low self-efficacy) and physical factors (e.g., greater nicotine dependence). Current evidence for the effectiveness of peer or partner support interventions in enhancing the success of quit attempts in the general population is equivocal, largely due to study design and lack of a theoretical framework in this research. We conducted a systematic review of peer support interventions for smoking cessation in disadvantaged groups. The eight studies which met the inclusion criteria showed that interventions that improve social support for smoking cessation may be of greater importance to disadvantaged groups who experience fewer opportunities to access such support informally. Peer-support programs are emerging as highly effective and empowering ways for people to manage health issues in a socially supportive context. We discuss the potential for peer-support programs to address the high prevalence of smoking in vulnerable populations and also to build capacity in their communities. 
Accounting for vulnerable populations in rural hazard mitigation plans: results of a survey of emergency managers.	Rural areas of the United States are uniquely vulnerable to the impacts of natural disasters. One possible way to mitigate vulnerability to disasters in rural communities is to have a high-quality hazard mitigation plan in place. To understand the resources available for hazard mitigation planning and determine how well hazard mitigation plans in rural counties meet the needs of vulnerable populations, we surveyed the lead planning or emergency management official responsible for hazard mitigation plans in 96 rural counties in eight states in the Southeastern United States. In most counties, emergency management was responsible for implementing the county's hazard mitigation plan and the majority of counties had experienced a presidentially declared disaster in the last 5 years. Our research findings demonstrated that there were differences in subjective measures of vulnerability (as reported by survey respondents) and objective measures of vulnerability (as determined by US Census data). In addition, although few counties surveyed included outreach to vulnerable groups as a part of their hazard mitigation planning process, a majority felt that their hazard mitigation plan addressed the needs of vulnerable populations "well" or "very well." These differences could result in increased vulnerabilities in rural areas, particularly for certain vulnerable groups.
Applying a community resilience framework to examine household emergency planning and exposure-reducing behavior among residents of Louisiana's industrial corridor.	Residents facing environmental hazards can take steps to reduce their exposure risks, and these actions may be considered adaptations that can enhance the overall resilience of communities. Applying concepts from social-ecological resilience theory, the authors examine emergency planning and exposure-reducing behaviors among residents of the upper Industrial Corridor of Louisiana and explore the extent to which the behaviors are associated with key theoretical influences on community resilience: exposure, vulnerability, and the "adaptive capacity" of residents. The behaviors of interest are adoption of a household emergency plan in the case of acute exposure events (like chemical spills), and limiting outdoor activities in response to Air Quality Index reports, thus potentially reducing chronic exposure risks. Statistical analyses indicate that adaptive behaviors are associated both with greater exposure to hazards and confidence in one's knowledge and ability to reduce exposure risks. Thus, the study yields evidence that "adaptive capacity" is particularly relevant to understanding and encouraging household emergency planning. Residents who believe that they are well-informed about risk-reducing strategies, regardless of education or income, were found to be more likely to have adopted these measures. Evidence that knowledge and confidence levels are linked to adaptive behaviors is good news for those working in public education and outreach programs, as these are attitudes and skills that can be nurtured. While factors associated with exposure and vulnerability to hazards are difficult to change, knowledge of risk-reducing strategies and confidence in one's abilities to reduce exposure risks can be improved through well-designed public education efforts.
Disadvantaging the disadvantaged: When public health policies and practices negatively affect marginalized populations.	Public health is intimately related to social justice, which is why practice and research in the field seek to improve the social determinants of health. Despite the best intentions of those working in public health, however, some policies and practices inadvertently further disadvantage pre-existing marginalized populations. In this paper, we provide a diagnosis of possible reasons why this phenomenon might occur. We posit that the challenges associated with further marginalizing certain populations stem from a) not acknowledging the normative aspects of apparently objective data, b) a misunderstanding and an uncritical alignment of public health goals with the ethics theory of utilitarianism, and c) assuming that those working in public health might be able to fully understand the experiences of marginalized populations. It is our view that the trend of public consultation with marginalized persons, the explicit teaching of ethics and philosophy of science in graduate departments of public health, and the increased use of health equity impact assessments might help protect against public health policies and practices that disadvantage marginalized populations.
Are very poor women more vulnerable to violence against women? Comparison of experiences of female beggars with homemakers in an urban slum settlement in Ibadan, Nigeria.	This study compared the prevalence and nature of violence against women (VAW) experienced by 104 female beggars with those of 219 homemakers in Sabo, an urban migrant slum settlement in Ibadan, Nigeria. The lifetime experience of VAW was 66.3% (95%CI: 62.5-70.1) among the beggars and 54.8% (95%CI: 52.2-57.6) among the homemakers (p=.05), while six months preceding the survey was: 56.7% (95%CI: 55.2-58.2) and 21.9% (95%CI: 20.8.2-23.0) respectively p=.0001). Psychological violence was experienced by 34.7% and 20.8% (p=.05); physical violence by 31.9% and 16.7% (p=.02) and sexual by 20.3% and 0.8% (p=.0001) of the beggars and homemakers respectively. Beggars with higher knowledge levels (aOR 0.23; 95%CI 0.07-0.80) and with more egalitarian attitudes (aOR 0.38; 95%CI 0.12-0.91) were less likely to experience violence. Suggestions to end VAW included female education (27.8%) and economic empowerment (59.2%). There is need to protect beggars by increasing access to health information, schooling, vocational training and income generating activities. 
Opioid substitution treatment in pretrial prison detention: a case study from Geneva, Switzerland.	Opioid substitution treatment (OST) is not uniformly provided in all prisons as recommended by international guidelines. The Swiss prison of Champ-Dollon in Geneva is an exception, where OST has been available for the last 20 years. The aims of this study were to describe the OST programme in this pretrial prison setting, and the patients involved.
Estimating medically fragile population in storm surge zones: a geographic information system application.	To develop a simple, cost-effective method for determining the size and geographic distribution of medically fragile (MF) individuals at risk from tropical storm surges for use by emergency management planners.
The influence of free quadrivalent human papillomavirus vaccine (HPV4) on the timely completion of the three dose series.	Economic incentives can positively influence social determinants to improve the health care of the uninsured and underserved populations. The aim of this study was to determine if free HPV4 vaccine would lead to on-time series completion in our safety net health care system in the US Midwest.
Informing the gestalt: an ethical framework for allocating scarce federal public health and medical resources to states during disasters.	During catastrophic disasters, government leaders must decide how to efficiently and effectively allocate scarce public health and medical resources. The literature about triage decision making at the individual patient level is substantial, and the National Response Framework provides guidance about the distribution of responsibilities between federal and state governments. However, little has been written about the decision-making process of federal leaders in disaster situations when resources are not sufficient to meet the needs of several states simultaneously. We offer an ethical framework and logic model for decision making in such circumstances. We adapted medical triage and the federalism principle to the decision-making process for allocating scarce federal public health and medical resources. We believe that the logic model provides a values-based framework that can inform the gestalt during the iterative decision process used by federal leaders as they allocate scarce resources to states during catastrophic disasters.
Non-paying partnerships and its association with HIV risk behavior, program exposure and service utilization among female sex workers in India.	In India, HIV prevention programs have focused on female sex workers' (FSWs') sexual practices vis--vis commercial partners leading to important gains in HIV prevention. However, it has become apparent that further progress is contingent on a better understanding of FSWs' sexual risks in the context of their relationships with non-paying partners. In this paper, we explored the association between FSWs' non-paying partner status, including cohabitation and HIV risk behaviors, program exposure and utilization of program services.
Cohort study of smoke-free homes in economically disadvantaged communities in the Dominican Republic.	To analyze household smoking-ban prevalence over time and predictors among communities in the Dominican Republic, historically a significant tobacco-growing country with few tobacco control regulations.
Evaluation of a new silicone adhesive tape among clinicians caring for patients with fragile or at-risk skin.	To evaluate performance of a new silicone tape among clinicians caring for patients with fragile skin.
Motivating underserved Vietnamese Americans to obtain colorectal cancer screening: evaluation of a culturally tailored DVD intervention.	Colorectal cancer (CRC) is a leading cause of cancer death among Vietnamese Americans, yet screening remains underutilized. We investigated the effectiveness of a culturally tailored DVD intervention in promoting CRC screening among unscreened Vietnamese Americans age 50 and over.
Adherence and retention in clinical trials: a community-based approach.	The Community Health Advisor (CHA) model has been widely used to recruit rural and low-income, mostly African American women into clinical and behavioral research studies. However, little is known about its effectiveness in promoting retention and adherence of such women in clinical trials.
Five National Cancer Institute-designated cancer centers' data collection on racial/ethnic minority participation in therapeutic trials: a current view and opportunities for improvement.	To ensure that National Institutes of Health-funded research is relevant to the population's needs, specific emphasis on proportional representation of minority/sex groups into National Cancer Institute (NCI) cancer centers' clinical research programs is reported to the NCI.
Building the strategic national stockpile through the NIAID Radiation Nuclear Countermeasures Program.	The possibility of a public health radiological or nuclear emergency in the United States remains a concern. Media attention focused on lost radioactive sources and international nuclear threats, as well as the potential for accidents in nuclear power facilities (e.g., Windscale, Three Mile Island, Chernobyl, and Fukushima) highlight the need to address this critical national security issue. To date, no drugs have been licensed to mitigate/treat the acute and long-term radiation injuries that would result in the event of large-scale, radiation, or nuclear public health emergency. However, recent evaluation of several candidate radiation medical countermeasures (MCMs) has provided initial proof-of-concept of efficacy. The goal of the Radiation Nuclear Countermeasures Program (RNCP) of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (National Institutes of Health) is to help ensure the government stockpiling of safe and efficacious MCMs to treat radiation injuries, including, but not limited to, hematopoietic, gastrointestinal, pulmonary, cutaneous, renal, cardiovascular, and central nervous systems. In addition to supporting research in these areas, the RNCP continues to fund research and development of decorporation agents targeting internal radionuclide contamination, and biodosimetry platforms (e.g., biomarkers and devices) to assess the levels of an individual's radiation exposure, capabilities that would be critical in a mass casualty scenario. New areas of research within the program include a focus on special populations, especially pediatric and geriatric civilians, as well as combination studies, in which drugs are tested within the context of expected medical care management (e.g., antibiotics and growth factors). Moving forward, challenges facing the RNCP, as well as the entire radiation research field, include further advancement and qualification of animal models, dose conversion from animal models to humans, biomarker identification, and formulation development. This paper provides a review of recent work and collaborations supported by the RNCP. 
Breast reconstruction satisfaction rates at a large county hospital.	It has been previously reported that the indigent patient population is less likely to seek breast reconstruction. It has also been reported that lower income women who do chose to undergo reconstruction are less satisfied with the results. This study assesses the level of breast reconstruction satisfaction in women treated at Los Angeles County Medical Center (LAC). For those women with lower satisfaction, we seek to identify the root source of this dissatisfaction.
Social disadvantage, genetic sensitivity, and children's telomere length.	Disadvantaged social environments are associated with adverse health outcomes. This has been attributed, in part, to chronic stress. Telomere length (TL) has been used as a biomarker of chronic stress: TL is shorter in adults in a variety of contexts, including disadvantaged social standing and depression. We use data from 40, 9-y-old boys participating in the Fragile Families and Child Wellbeing Study to extend this observation to African American children. We report that exposure to disadvantaged environments is associated with reduced TL by age 9 y. We document significant associations between low income, low maternal education, unstable family structure, and harsh parenting and TL. These effects were moderated by genetic variants in serotonergic and dopaminergic pathways. Consistent with the differential susceptibility hypothesis, subjects with the highest genetic sensitivity scores had the shortest TL when exposed to disadvantaged social environments and the longest TL when exposed to advantaged environments. 
How smokers may react to cigarette taxes and price increases in Brazil: data from a national survey.	Despite being the third largest tobacco producer in the world, Brazil has developed a comprehensive tobacco control policy that includes a broad restriction on both advertising and smoking in indoor public places, compulsory pictorial warning labels, and a menthol cigarette ban. However, tax and pricing policies have been developed slowly and only very recently were stronger measures implemented. This study investigated the expected responses of smokers to hypothetical price increases in Brazil.
Education and WHO recommendations for fruit and vegetable intake are associated with better cognitive function in a disadvantaged Brazilian elderly population: a population-based cross-sectional study.	Brazil has one of the fastest aging populations in the world and the incidence of cognitive impairment in the elderly is expected to increase exponentially. We examined the association between cognitive impairment and fruit and vegetable intake and associated factors in a low-income elderly population. A cross-sectional population-based study was carried out with 1849 individuals aged 65 or over living in So Paulo, Brazil. Cognitive function was assessed using the Community Screening Instrument for Dementia (CSI-D). Fruit and vegetable intake was assessed with a Food Frequency Questionnaire (FFQ) and categorized into quartiles of intake and into total daily fruit and vegetable intake using the cut-off points for the WHO recommendations (<400 grams/day or  400 grams/day). The association between cognitive impairment and each quartile of intake, and WHO recommendation levels, was evaluated in two separate multivariate logistic models. The WHO recommendations for daily intakes  400 grams/day were significantly associated with 47% decreased prevalence of cognitive impairment. An effect modification was found in both models between cognitive impairment and "years of education and physical activity" and "years of education and blood levels of HDL" So that, having 1 or more years of education and being physically active or having 1 or more years of education and levels higher than 50 mg/dl of HDL-cholesterol strongly decreased the prevalence of cognitive impairment. In this socially deprived population with very low levels of education and physical activity and fruit and vegetable intake, those who attained WHO recommendations, had 1 year or more of education and were physically active had a significantly lower prevalence of cognitive impairment. A more comprehensive understanding of the social determinants of mental health is needed to develop effective public policies in developing countries.
Physician financial incentives and care for the underserved in the United States.	To estimate: (1) the percentage of physicians whose compensation is variable; (2) the frequency at which performance incentives for productivity, care quality, patient satisfaction, and resource use were used to determine compensation; and (3) how much incentives differ for physicians who serve greater percentages of patients who are Medicaid-insured, racial/ethnic minorities, or who face language barriers, versus those who do not.
Health care seeking patterns and out of pocket payments for children under five years of age living in Katchi Abadis (slums), in Islamabad, Pakistan.	Since 1990, Pakistan has faced an unprecedented rate of urbanization, thereby resulting in the uncontrolled proliferation of slums (Katchi Abadis) in all large cities. These areas lack the basic municipal services such as safe water supply, sanitation and waste collection. There is limited access to quality health care services, both curative and preventive. Therefore, communities living in katchi abadis are faced with health seeking challenges and catastrophic expenditure to pay for health care services (formal or informal).
Involuntary medication and the case of Joyce Brown.	In October 1987, Joyce Brown became the first homeless person removed from New York City's streets and hospitalized under a city initiative that authorized evaluation of "gravely disabled" homeless persons for admission to inpatient psychiatric treatment. Miss Brown's highly publicized and ultimately successful court battle to prevent a course of forced medication is described. Her refusal of medication was upheld based on her capacity to understand the proposed treatment and to express a partially rational opinion about it. The author, who served as independent psychiatric consultant to the court on the decision about Miss Brown's involuntary medication, uses the case to illustrate some of the problems of involuntary psychiatric intervention, including the commitment of competent patients and the lack of a coherent approach to persistent treatment refusal.
Serosurvey of human immunodeficiency virus infection in parturients. Implications for human immunodeficiency virus testing programs of pregnant women.	Although perinatal transmission of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is well documented, seroprevalence rates of HIV in populations of women of reproductive age have not yet been reported. To determine the seroprevalence of HIV in childbearing women from a population with a high incidence of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, cord blood samples were collected from 602 infants delivered at an inner-city municipal hospital in New York. Demographic and HIV risk factor information was also collected from mothers of these infants. Twelve (2%) of 602 samples (95% confidence interval, 1% to 4%) were positive for HIV on enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Western blot analysis. In interviews, seven of 12 seropositive women had risk factors as defined by the Centers for Disease Control, Atlanta; the remaining five seropositive women had no self-identified risk factors. The HIV seroprevalence rate in our hospital (2.0%) is several times higher than that of many other diseases for which screening is already routine. This serosurvey indicates that HIV infection of inner-city parturients is a significant problem that warrants broadly implemented health strategies. Furthermore, the data also suggest that if risk factor information elicited by physicians is used to initiate HIV antibody counseling and testing of pregnant women, a significant number of seropositive parturients is missed. In areas with significant seroprevalence rates of HIV infection, a broader counseling and testing program may be needed.
Informed consent and anonymous tissue samples: the case of HIV seroprevalence studies.	Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) seroprevalence studies use anonymous tissue samples obtained in hospitals and clinics without donor consent. This can be justified as a response to a public health emergency, but should not be seen as setting a precedent for waiving consent whenever samples are anonymous. The following recommendations grow out of this discussion: (1) Studies using anonymous tissue samples should not be automatically exempt from consent requirements, and consent should not be waived simply to avoid anticipated refusals, low participation rates or self selection bias. (2) The consensus on informed consent favors fulfilling as many of the elements of informed consent as reasonably possible, so studies should be assessed individually to determine if any or all elements of informed consent should be modified or omitted. (3) There is a need for greater regulation of the research use of tissue samples. (4) Investigators seeking approval to waive consent or modify elements of informed consent should document the sort of new findings that they believe would effect their calculations about the benefits and burdens to subjects who are enrolled in the study, and institutional review boards should indicate whether they agree with the investigators' analysis.
HIV preventive vaccine research: selected ethical issues.	This paper explores three selected issues which present ethical challenges unique to the development and testing of preventive HIV vaccines. The issues are: when to move forward with large scale efficacy testing of vaccines, how to incorporate behavioral interventions into the study of vaccine efficacy, and how to plan for and mitigate social harms associated with participation in an HIV vaccine trial. Careful and ongoing consideration must be given to the ethical implications of these decisions. Proposed solutions include planning for a more complex prevention trial which would integrate the evaluation of behavioral interventions and vaccine efficacy; scrupulous attention to the process of individual informed consent and community participation; and serious and deliberate attempts to plan for, educate about, and minimize the social harms.
Oppressive limits: Callahan's foundation myth.	Daniel Callahan has not simply proposed alterations of important features of the health economy. He has constructed a blue print for society drawing on concepts of what is natural and appropriate to human beings. He is, in effect, establishing a new social order. Like any social order, Callahan's system has its justificatory schemes or founding myths. This paper offers a feminist examination of the functions that these four myths-the concept of a whole of life; the stages of life; a tolerable death; and a reconstruction of the meaning of the aged in terms of sacrifice-fulfill in Callahan's new social order. Callahan's concept of a whole of life reflects the power he assigns to nature, and the futility and harm he associates with attempts to repudiate biological imperatives. It introduces the stages of human life, tolerable death, and aging. The paper critically examines these concepts.
Marginalized women's access to health care: a feminist narrative analysis.	In the emergent restructuring of health care, it is imperative to examine marginalized consumers' experiences with access to care so that the process addresses not merely the issue of rising health care costs, but also begins to meet the actual health care needs of diverse communities. This report of a feminist narrative study of access for low-income lesbians from several ethnic/racial groups provides critique of the US health care system from the standpoint of consumers and offers a transformative vision of what a just, effective, and compassionate system might encompass. By generating compelling evidence about the access afforded in current models of health care delivery, this study serves as an example of the significance of its methodological innovations, sampling from the margins, and narrative design.
The impact of informed consent on patient interest in prostate-specific antigen screening.	Because of the many uncertainties surrounding screening for prostate cancer, authorities recommend that patients be involved in the screening decision.
Allocating health care: cost-utility analysis, informed democratic decision making, or the veil of ignorance?	Assuming that rationing health care is unavoidable, and that it requires moral reasoning, how should we allocate limited health care resources? This question is difficult because our pluralistic, liberal society has no consensus on a conception of distributive justice. In this article I focus on an alternative: Who shall decide how to ration health care, and how shall this be done to respect autonomy, pluralism, liberalism, and fairness? I explore three processes for making rationing decisions: cost-utility analysis, informed democratic decision making, and applications of the veil of ignorance. I evaluate these processes as examples of procedural justice, assuming that there is no outcome considered the most just. I use consent as a criterion to judge competing processes so that rationing decisions are, to some extent, self-imposed. I also examine the processes' feasibility in our current health care system. Cost-utility analysis does not meet criteria for actual or presumed consent, even if costs and health-related utility could be measured perfectly. Existing structures of government cannot creditably assimilate the information required for sound rationing decisions, and grassroots efforts are not representative. Applications of the veil of ignorance are more useful for identifying principles relevant to health care rationing than for making concrete rationing decisions. I outline a process of decision making, specifically for health care, that relies on substantive, selected representation, respects pluralism, liberalism, and deliberative democracy, and could be implemented at the community or organizational level.
Updating protections for human subjects involved in research. Project on Informed Consent, Human Research Ethics Group.	For decades, all federally funded research involving human subjects has been subject to regulations that require the informed consent of the subject and oversight by the local institution. These regulations last underwent major revision in 1981 and have remained unchanged despite significant changes in the nature of clinical science, the financial sources of research support, and the institutional environment in which clinical research is conducted. In the intervening years, doubt has evolved as to whether the regulations currently in place adequately protect the welfare and rights of research subjects in today's clinical research environment and whether the costs, in terms of time, bureaucracy, and delay, are justified by the level of protection afforded. The Human Research Ethics Group, administered by the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania Health System, extensively reviewed the status of existing human subjects protections with the aim of making recommendations to improve and reform the regulations. Here, we present recommendations constituting a consensus of the group members for reform in 3 key areas: protecting subject populations with special needs and vulnerabilities, oversight by institutional review boards, and regulatory policy.
Participation in clinical trials among women living with HIV in Canada. Canadian Women's HIV Study Group.	To describe participation in clinical trials among HIV-positive women enrolled since 1993 in the Canadian Women's HIV Study, a prospective open cohort study.
