V--Y flap for perineal reconstruction following modified approach to vulvectomy in vulvar cancer.	To evaluate a simple reconstructive procedure used in combination with a modified oncological approach to the treatment of invasive vulvar cancer. Local and systemic morbidity, length of hospital stay, local recurrence, and mortality were evaluated.
A case of vulvar metastasis from rectal cancer--regional resection of the right vulva labium and vulvar reconstruction with a rhomboid transposition flap: case report.	A 72-year-old woman visited our hospital to clarify the etiology of pain, swelling and ulceration of the right large vulva labium. Rectal cancer and pulmonary metastatic tumor were detected, and the rectal cancer was resected. Biopsy from the right vulva labium revealed that the vulvar tumor was a metastatic cancer originating from rectal cancer. Our patient underwent regional resection of the right vulva labium and the area lacking tissue was covered by a rhomboid transposition flap. Our patient experienced necrosis of the tip of the flap and the wound was healed by secondary intention.
Pigmented apocrine hamartoma of the vulva: a report of two cases.	Two cases of pigmented apocrine hamartoma of the vulva are reported; only one similar case involving the vulva was found in the literature. In each of the two cases, the lesion presented as a pigmented papule involving the labium minus of a young woman, and raised clinical concern for a malignant melanoma. On histological examination, the lesions were composed of tubules and cysts lined by melanin-containing apocrine cells and an outer layer of myoepithelial cells. The pigmentation appeared to be secondary to colonization of the apocrine cells by dendritic melanocytes.
Flap algorithm in vulvar reconstruction after radical, extensive vulvectomy.	The objective of this study was to assess the reconstructive options after radical, extensive vulvectomy; relate them to tumor characteristics; and select a choice of flaps able to correct every remaining defect. This study is a retrospective review of a 4-year experience with 31 flaps in 20 consecutive vulvar reconstructions. Three of the 31 flaps presented nonsignificant delayed healing at their tips and 3 other flaps developed a major breakdown related to an infection or an error in flap planning. According to the authors, the size of the defect is the main issue that must be taken into consideration during the establishment of reconstructive needs. Closure of vulvar defects is preferably performed using fasciocutaneous flaps, which are very reliable flaps and can be raised with different techniques to meet different needs. A flap is then chosen with the fewest potential complications. An algorithm has been thus established: Small to medium-size defects are closed with island V-Y flaps, island gluteal fold flaps, or pedicled pudendal thigh flaps. Among them, the island V-Y flap is the workhorse flap for vulvar reconstruction because of its versatility, reliability, and technical simplicity compared with its very low complication rate. If the vulvar defect is large and/or reaches the vulva-crural fold, V-Y flaps are also preferred to close these large and posteriorly extended excisions. If the vulvar defect is very large, extending both anteriorly and posteriorly, the use of a distally based, vertically oriented rectus abdominis muscle flap is recommended. Using this algorithm, immediate vulvar reconstruction with pedicled local or regional flaps can be performed easily and reliably.
A comparative study of radical vulvectomy and modified radical vulvectomy for the treatment of invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva.	Forty-five patients who underwent a modified radical vulvectomy for invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva were compared with forty-five patients who underwent radical vulvectomy for similar lesions. Vulvar wound infection and breakdown were infrequent in both groups. Anal incontinence developed postoperatively in five of the modified radical vulvectomy patients and in none of the radical vulvectomy patients. Urinary incontinence developed postoperatively in two of the modified radical vulvectomy patients and in seven of the radical vulvectomy patients. Possible reasons for these differences are discussed. One invasive local recurrence (2.2%) developed in the modified radical vulvectomy group and two (4.4%) local recurrences developed in the radical vulvectomy group. A modified radical vulvectomy appears to be efficacious for the vulvar phase of treatment of localized invasive squamous cell carcinoma of the vulva.
Gluteal fold V-Y advancement flap for vulvar and vaginal reconstruction: a new flap.	Soft-tissue reconstruction following vulvar cancer resection is a difficult challenge because of the functional, locational, and cosmetic importance of this region. Although numerous flaps have been designed for vulvar reconstruction, each has its disadvantages.
Preservation of the saphenous vein during inguinal lymphadenectomy for vulval malignancies]	The conventional operation for the patients with vulval malignancies is radical vulvectomy and bilateral inguinal lymphadenectomy with partial saphenous vein trunk ligation and resection, but the quality of life of the patients was declined severely because of multiple postoperative complications. This study was to explore the influences of preserving the saphenous vein during inguinal lymphadenectomy for vulval malignancies on operation, prognosis, and complications.
Is elective vulvar plastic surgery ever warranted, and what screening should be conducted preoperatively?	Elective vulvar plastic surgery was the topic of a heated discussion on the list-serve of the International Society for the Study of Women's Sexual Medicine. At the suggestion of a board member, it was determined that this discussion might of interest to journal readers in the form of a published controversy.
Radical vulvectomy by two different surgical incisions.	To determine the outcome of radical vulvectomy by two different surgical incisions (butterfly vs triple incision) for the treatment of vulval carcinoma.
The V flap: a combination of V-Y advancement and two Limberg transposition flaps.	Two annoying problems are encountered in surgical correction of greater defects by flap plasty: the widely undermined cavity seen when using transposition flaps to cover large wound cavities and the necessity to cut away healthy skin because of dog ears or a Burrow's triangle. The V flap is a method of shifting and transposing of the skin surrounding the defect to avoid these troublesome disadvantages. With the exception of cases where a myocutaneous island flap is indicated, this simple V-flap technique yields excellent surgical results.
Radical vulvectomy with partial rectal resection and temporary colostomy as primary therapy for selected patients with vulvar carcinoma.	The patient with carcinoma of the vulva may present with tumor involvement of the perirectal area. Traditional treatment has often involved ultraradical therapy including a radical vulvectomy with posterior or total pelvic exenteration in an effort to obtain adequate surgical margins. Five-year survival rates for these patients range from 20-50%, and major operative morbidity as well as psychological problems are associated with this extensive surgery. Five patients treated for a locally advanced vulvar carcinoma involving the perirectal area were thought to be candidates for a rectum-sparing procedure. They underwent a radical vulvectomy, bilateral inguinal lymphadenectomy, partial rectal resection, and a diverting colostomy. Four of the five patients agreed to a colostomy closure 6 months after their primary therapy; these four patients have resumed normal bowel function. All patients remain clinically free of tumor.
Vulvodynia interventions--systematic review and evidence grading.	State of the art guidance exists for management of vulvodynia, but the scientific basis for interventions has not been well described. Although there are many interventional therapies, and their use is increasing, there is also uncertainty or controversy about their efficacy.
Labia minora elongation as understood by Baganda male and female adolescents in Uganda.	Labia minora elongation is a common traditional female genital modification practice among the members of the Baganda ethnic group in Uganda. In 2002, a study carried out by the Padua Working Group on Female Genital Mutilation analysed how Baganda girls residing in Wakiso District graphically represented their experiences of labia minora elongation. In the present study, using the same methodology and in the same geographic setting 10 years later, we asked young men and women to prepare graphical representations of this rite. The purpose was to learn about how the practice is perceived and represented, describing the differences found in their testimonies, and comparing the findings with the former study. A total of 36 respondents (21 male and 15 female), aged between 9 and 15 years old participated in the study. The drawings were analysed using a three-themes analysis frame with a focus on setting, subject and operator. Differences were detected between how young women and men represented this practice. Educational interventions may be helpful to address the doubts, concerns, anxieties and misconceptions that Baganda youth may have concerning traditional genital practices.
Can clitoris-conserving surgery for early vulvar cancer improve the outcome in terms of quality of life and sexual sensation?	Vulvar carcinomas (VC) and vulvar in situ cancers (VCIS) are rare genital malignancies. Total vulvectomy as the standard of care has been replaced by local excision during the early stages of the disease. We studied whether conservation of the clitoris in vulvar surgery has a positive effect on either the quality of life (QoL) or the sexual sensation of the patient.
What's normal? Influencing women's perceptions of normal genitalia: an experiment involving exposure to modified and nonmodified images.	Examine women's perceptions of what is 'normal' and 'desirable' in female genital appearance.
Dilemmas in the management of patients with vulval epithelioid sarcoma: a literature review.	Vulval sarcomas are an extremely rare type of soft tissue tumor, the principal properties of which are unpredictable symptoms and frequent recurrences. This review discusses the management options specific for cases of vulval epithelioid sarcoma. The PubMed, Scopus and Cochrane databases were systematically searched and 28 studies met the inclusion criteria for our narrative review. The mean age of the 31 included patients was 31 years (range: 17-84). Local excision (19 out of 31, 61.3%), radical vulvectomy (8 out of 31, 25.8%) and hemivulvectomy (4 out of 31, 12.9%) were the principal surgical treatments. Radiotherapy and chemotherapy were performed in 8 and 5 patients, respectively. Recurrence of the disease was present in 13 out of 31 (42%). The interval to recurrence ranged from 1 to 48 months. The main location of recurrences was the local tissues, the lymph nodes and the lung. The mean period of follow-up was 38.5 months (range: 2-146 months). Cure was considered to have taken place in 19 out of 31 (61.3%) patients; 10 out of 31 (32.6%) died, and 2 out of 31 (6.4%) at the end of follow-up were alive but not considered cured. The first and principal step for the proper treatment of vulval epithelioid sarcomas is awareness of their existence by the specialist involved. Extensive imaging is proposed for staging, while the creation of a national or international register of patients with this malignancy would enable a more consistent approach to its management. 
Radiation therapy and conservation surgery for primary and recurrent carcinoma of the vulva: report of 40 patients and a review of the literature.	Forty patients with histologically confirmed primary or recurrent vulvar carcinoma were treated with radiation therapy for loco-regional disease. Nineteen of the patients with primary tumors received postoperative radiotherapy (5000 cGy in 6 weeks). Fifteen of the 19 exhibited local tumor control. Five patients with Stage III or IV disease were managed with radiotherapy alone. Four had a complete response with two currently NED. Two patients who received preoperative radiotherapy with local excision are also currently free of disease. The 4-year NED survival for the study population is 100%, 28%, 50%, 0% and 10% for Stage I, II, III, IV and recurrent tumors respectively. The poor results obtained in Stage II tumors is likely due to selection criteria since four of seven patients developed distant metastases. Two of the 14 patients treated for recurrent disease remain NED after local excision of their tumors prior to irradiation. Even though the number of patients is small no dose response for subclinical disease could be found between 4500 and 7000 cGy. Treatment morbidity was acceptable with two patients developing severe long-term complications requiring surgical intervention.
Plastic surgical postero-lateral redirection extension vulvo-vaginoplasty.	This paper offers a report of a vulvo-vaginoplasty, that rotates the vaginal axis away from alignment with the internal genitalia and bladder to treat refractory coitally connected recurrent cystitis and deep internal genital and bladder dyspareunia, by lessening coital trauma to the bladder and the internal genitalia. This rotation also aligns the vagina with the clitoris and the upper inner labia, which increases the mechanical efficiency of indirect coital clitoral manipulation via the inner labia and adds direct coital clitoral manipulation. The intensity of coital sexual response is thereby equated with the intensity of clitoral response. Standard reconstructive surgical procedures are utilized to rotate the axis of the vagina, which shorten the long axis of the vagina, requiring the concomitant construction from the labia majora of an extension of the vagina and a new introitus, both of an appropriate diameter. This extends the vagina to the clitoris and the indications for the operation to treatment of iatrogenic or congenital stricture and shortening of the vagina; and childbirth enlargement. The clitoris is not moved. It is circumcised to increase clitoral response. A preliminary report of results is included herein.
Primary epidermoid carcinoma of the vulva.	During a 12 year period, 102 patients with invasive epidermoid carcinoma of the vulva were treated at the University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinic. The over-all corrected three year survival rate was 65.5 per cent, or 67 of 102 patients. Those treated by radical vulvectomy and bilateral dissection of groin nodes had a three year survival rate of 76.9 per cent, or 40 of 52 patients, while those treated by radiotherapy had a survival rate of 10 per cent, or two of 20 patients. Those with Stage I disease lesions, less than 1 centimeter in diameter, had an excellent survival rate whether they were treated by vulvectomy only or by radical vulvectomy with groin node dissection. Our experience in this selected group of patients would indicate that a degree of individualization in the treatment of early invasive lesions of the vulva can give most satisfactory results.
Carcinoma in situ of the vulva: a continuing challenge.	The epidemiologic data, clinical features, associated diseases, and histologic characteristics present in 50 cases of carcinoma in situ of the vulva are analyzed. A comparison of follow-up results obtained with various treatment methods is presented. With primary surgery the recurrence rate is dependent on the presence or absence of tumor at the surgical margins. Deoxyribonucleic acid patterns, determined by microspectrophotometry, were aneuploid in 92% of the cases studied. Five patients (10%) with aneuploid lesions, observed without therapy, experienced spontaneous regression of tumor and replacement of abnormal areas by euploid epithelium.
Some aspect of surgical treatment of vulvar carcinoma (author's transl)]	The authors put forward their experience in the surgical treatment of 51 patients with vulvar carcinoma in the Gynecology-Obstetrics Hospital in Beograd, by describing their modification of surgical techniques which allows a better healing of surgical wounds.
Radical vulvectomy and lymphadenectomy at Srinagarind Hospital.	Vulvar carcinoma, although rare, is difficult to manage. We conducted a study to describe the management in our hospital. From 1978 to 1991, 69 patients with primary carcinoma of the vulva were treated at Srinagarind Hospital, Faculty of Medicine, Khon Kaen University. Forty-two patients underwent radical vulvectomy and lymphadenectomy. The data presented the techniques, surgical events and outcome of the operations. The 5 and 10-yr survival rates for the operable cses were 88.5 per cent and only 22 per cent for those who were non-operable. Surgery is still the recommended primary treatment for this rare malignancy of the female genital tract.
Malignant melanoma of the vulva treated by radical hemivulvectomy. A prospective study of the Gynecologic Oncology Group.	Beginning in 1983, the Gynecologic Oncology Group (GOG) conducted a prospective clinicopathologic study of primary malignant melanoma of the vulva. The objectives of this study were to determine the relationship of histopathologic parameters and microstaging to the International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) staging and prognosis.
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy following radical vulvectomy: an adjunctive therapy to improve wound healing.	The objective of the study was to evaluate the effect of postoperative hyperbaric oxygen (HBO) therapy on wound breakdown following radical vulvectomy. A prospective, observational study was performed on patients undergoing radical vulvectomy from October 1990 to March 1993 at Scott and White Memorial Hospital, Temple, Texas. HBO therapy was initiated in the postoperative period. Retrospective review of all patients coded as radical vulvectomy from 1987 to 1990 provides for a historical comparison. Eight patients were enrolled in the study. Six patients had radical vulvectomies with lymph node dissections (LND) and two did not. One wound breakdown was observed in the HBO-treated patients. Retrospective review identified 22 patients as having undergone radical vulvectomy with or without LND. Seven of 9 patients with LND and 3 of 13 without LND had wound breakdowns. A significant difference (P = 0.035) was found comparing patients treated with LND and HBO to retrospective controls with LND. Hospitalization was shorter in the HBO-treated patients. This small study showed a reduction in wound breakdown for patients undergoing radical vulvectomy with LND and HBO therapy compared to similar patients not treated with HBO. This observation supports the need for randomized studies examining the efficacy of HBO therapy in this group of patients.
Skinning vulvectomy for the treatment of vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia 2-3: a study of 21 cases.	Twenty-one cases of patients with vulvar intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) 2-3 were reviewed. The mean age at diagnosis was 45.4 years. All of the patients presented with vulvar pruritus. Five of the patients had hypertension, two had coronary heart disease and two had diabetes mellitus as complicating medical illnesses. None of the patients had history or evidence of vaginal intraepithelial neoplasia (VAIN) or cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN), and only one patient had invasive cervical cancer at diagnosis. Provided the histology confirmed VIN, the patients were subjected to a skinning vulvectomy procedure. Of the patients, 15 (71.4%) had VIN 2, and the remaining 6 (28.6%) had VIN 3 at preoperative evaluation. Histologic analysis of skinning vulvectomy specimens revealed no evidence of neoplasia in three patients (14.2%). Multifocality was observed in only three patients (14.2%). The areas involved were the perineum in four patients, labia in 15 and clitoris in two patients. Associated vulvar pathologies were condyloma acuminata in one, squamous vulvar hyperplasia in three and lichen sclerosus with squamous hyperplasia in one patient. The complications of the procedure included febrile morbidity in three patients and minor wound break-down in one patient. None of the patients in this series experienced recurrence. Skinning vulvectomy seems to have a high success rate in treatment of VIN 2-3 with minimal postoperative complications and satisfactory cosmetic results. However, observation of only three patients with multifocal lesions as well as no patient with invasive cancer adds credence to an ablative procedure after appropriate evaluation under colposcopy.
