Severe virilization in a girl with a steroid cell tumor of the ovary.	We report a 6-year-old girl with striking signs of virilization, as well as elevated concentrations of testosterone and 17-hydroxyprogesterone. Although the elevated 17-hydroxyprogesterone concentration initially suggested late-onset 21-hydroxylase deficiency, she was found to have an ovarian mass by sonography which at surgery proved to be a hilus cell subtype of steroid cell tumor. This intra-ovarian tumor appears to be the smallest tumor of its type ever reported. The testosterone concentration was normal three days after tumor resection and has remained so two years later.
The use of water immersion for treatment of massive labial edema during pregnancy.	The purpose of this article is to present a case of a pregnant woman with nephrotic syndrome who had unusually painful edema, and to share an intervention used to relieve her discomfort. The labial edema experienced by this patient was particularly problematic and interfered with normal activity; the hydrotherapy used in this case for treatment was successful in reducing the edema and the pain associated with it. When addressing atypical clinical problems such as this one, nurses can use evidence-based, inexpensive interventions to help their patients.
Underdiagnosis of genital herpes by current clinical and viral-isolation procedures.	The current clinical strategy for diagnosing genital herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection in women relies on clinical findings plus the selective use of viral culture. The effectiveness of this approach for identifying women with genital herpes is unknown.
Primary tuberculous chancre in a renal transplant patient.	A case of primary tuberculous chancre of the vulva is reported. Although a tuberculous infection in an immunocompromised patient is not uncommon, this is the first report of a primary tuberculous infection on the external genitalia in such a patient. The source of infection in this patient could not be determined.
Vulvar manifestations of systemic diseases.	As the study of vulvar diseases becomes more accepted and as physicians and patients become more comfortable discussing vulvar complaints, there will also be less hesitancy to examine the area adequately. This can only lead to better observations, more knowledge, and more exact diagnosis and treatment of these problems, whether they be primary in the vulva or part of a systemic process.
Female genital mutilation among Edo people: the complications and pattern of presentation at a pediatric surgery unit, Benin City.	This prospective study on female genital mutilation among Edo people was based on female children and parents who presented on account of it at the University of Benin Teaching Hospital, Benin City, Nigeria, between January 2002 and December 2007. During the period, 51 female children aged 10 days and 18 years presented with complications following genital mutilation. Twenty-nine were brought by their parents for mutilation while 67 parents interviewed believed strongly on female genital mutilation with 47 mothers mutilated. Religio-cultural and superstitious beliefs were the main indications and the type of mutilation ranged from excision of clitoridal tip in 10 (19.6%) children to complete excision of the clitoris, labia minora and inner layer of majora in 7 (13.7%). Complications ranged from clitoridal cyst formation in 21 (41.2%) to life threatening infections with one mortality due to tetanus infection.
Clitoromegaly and abdominal tumour as leading signs of a mediastinal non-Hodgkin lymphoma.	A 2-year-old girl was admitted with clitoromegaly, mediastinal tumour and enlarged kidneys. A seventh cranial nerve palsy was associated with an increased cell count in cerebrospinal fluid. The diagnosis of a lymphoblastic lymphoma was confirmed by a cervical lymph-node biopsy. Six years after diagnosis and treatment according to the BFM protocol the girl remains in first complete remission.
Vulvar hematoma secondary to a human bite. A case report.	A case of vulvar hematoma resulting from cunnilingus occurred in an alcoholic woman. Incision and drainage with debridement of devitalized tissues, systemic antibiotics covering both anaerobes and aerobes, and counseling are usually required for the optimal result in such cases.
Cutaneous cryptococcal infection presenting as vulvar lesion.	A woman aged 60, who had been immunosuppressed since receiving a renal transplant 17 years before, developed a painless ulcerated lesion on her right labia majora. Cryptococcus neoformans was demonstrated by culture and biopsy of the lesion. This is the first reported case of a genital skin lesion caused by C neoformans.
Complications associated with carbon dioxide laser surgery in gynecology.	Complications associated with the use of the carbon dioxide laser in 624 gynecologic patients are presented. Bleeding and pain were the most common side effects of this new modality. Although bleeding occurred in 63 patients, it was considered minor, i.e., requiring no treatment in 56 women. Pain was rather mild and could be dealt with easily by allowing heat buildup to dissipate. Only one laser accident was observed in the entire series. Interestingly, scar formation, e.g., cervical stenosis, was essentially nonexistent. Similarly, no infections were reported. The carbon dioxide laser compares favorably to conventional treatment methods insofar as complications are concerned; however, if future complications are to be avoided, careful training in CO2 laser technology must precede clinical use of the instrument.
Vulvar pain syndrome: a review.	Vulvar pain syndrome (vulvar vestibulitis, vulvodynia, burning vulvar syndrome) was first described at the end of the last century. Although more than 100 years have passed, the cause(s) of the disorder remains elusive. This review of the literature endeavors to collate the known facts relating to vulvar pain syndrome and to expose those hypothetical etiologies which fall short of establishing any scientific foundation. The diagnosis of vulvar pain syndrome is established on the basis of historical data which detail a rather abrupt onset of vestibular itching, burning, dryness which may be intermittent or continuous. Commonly, patients present with a history of chronic treatment for recurrent fungal infections. Sexual relations become uncomfortable or intolerable. Unanimously, the patients describe a panorama of topical creams and ointments which fail to alleviate the symptoms. Physical examination typically verifies hyperesthesia of the vestibular skin when touched lightly with a cotton-tipped applicator. Similarly, the vestibular skin shows varying degrees of redness. The treatment programs for vulvar pain syndrome are as diverse as the multitude of etiological hypotheses. This review includes data pointing out those therapeutic measures that appear valueless and that may add to the patient's chronic discomfort.
Membranous hypertrophy of the posterior fourchette as a cause of dyspareunia and vulvodynia.	Twenty-one women were treated surgically for entry dyspareunia and vulvodynia. The ages of the patients ranged from 18 to 39 years (mean, 24.5). Physical examination showed the presence of membranous hypertrophy of the posterior fourchette with consequent stricture of the vaginal introitus in all the patients. Eighty percent of the patients had erythema and tenderness of the vestibule, particularly in the posterior part. The histologic findings were somewhat enigmatic and quite unimpressive, frequently suggestive of chronic nonspecific inflammation; in only two cases were histologic changes suggestive of human papillomavirus infection observed. All the patients underwent excision of the posterior part of the vestibule with vaginal advancement under general anesthesia. Follow-up showed elimination of the symptoms in 19 patients and an improvement in the symptoms in the remaining 2.
Osteomyelitis presenting as genital sore: a case report.	A female attending the skin outpatient department presented with a genital sore which was treated as chancroid. On further investigation it proved to be the opening of a sinus secondary to chronic osteomyelitis of the pubic symphysis.
STD case challenge--differential diagnosis of a genital dermatosis.	A 25-year-old white woman arrives in your outpatient clinic with a red, nonpruritic genital rash. What is the differential diagnosis and treatment?
