Peripheral and central nervous system lesions caused by triethyl- and trimethyltin salts in rats.	Both trimethyltin and triethyltin salts are known to produce toxic lesions in the central nervous system. Triethyltin intoxication has been associated with central intramyelin edema, while trimethyltin has been shown to produce neuronal necrosis in selected limbic and sensory regions of the brain. Only scant attention has been paid to peripheral nerves of animals treated with alkyltins. In this study, we have treated rats with 6 or 8 mg/kg trimethyltin, and 1, 2, 4, 6, or 8 mg/kg triethyltin (single or multiple exposure), and evaluated in detail at the light microscope level both central and peripheral nervous system lesions. In addition to the central neuron necrosis or myelin edema described previously, both compounds produced peripheral axon degeneration and chromatolysis of large spinal cord and brain stem neurons. Chromatolysis was seen in reticular neurons of the brain stem and ventral horn or spinal cord in rats receiving high doses (6 or 8 mg/kg) of triethyltin, and in these same areas plus mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus in animals treated with trimethyltin. Wallerian-like degeneration of peripheral axons was seen in sciatic and tibial nerve and ventral roots of animals receiving 3 injections of 4 mg/kg or single or multiple injections of 6 or 8 mg/kg triethyltin. Axon degeneration was also seen in sciatic and tibial nerves 21 days after a single exposure to 8 mg/kg trimethyltin. Since myelin edema is believed to be reversible, the axonal changes described here may be of greater clinical significance in relation to human exposure.
Microglial response to N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated excitotoxicity in the immature rat brain.	The intracerebral injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) has been proposed as a model for hypoxic-ischemic insult in the immature brain. In this light, the aim of this study was to describe the time course of the microglial reaction in the areas undergoing primary degeneration at the site of intracortical NMDA injection as well as in areas undergoing secondary anterograde and/or retrograde degeneration. Fifty nanomoles of NMDA were injected in the sensorimotor cortex of 6-day-old rats. After survival times ranging from 10 hours to 28 days, cryostat sections were stained for routine histology and for the demonstration of microglial cells by means of tomato lectin histochemistry. The areas affected by primary degeneration caused by the intracortical injection of NMDA were the neocortex, the hippocampus, and the rostral thalamus. Secondary degeneration (retrograde and anterograde) was observed in the ventrobasal complex of the thalamus. The cortical lesion also caused Wallerian degeneration of the cortical descending efferents as observed in the basilar pons. Microglial reactivity in all these areas was present at 10 hours postinjection and was restricted to the areas undergoing neuronal or axonal degeneration. Reactive microglial cells were stained intensely and showed a round or pseudopodic morphology. At 3 days, an apparent increase in the number of tomato lectin-positive cells was observed in the areas undergoing neuronal death. By 7 days after the injection, the lesion became nonprogressive, and by 14 and 28 days, microglial cells showed moderate lectin binding and a more ramified morphology.
Activation and proliferation of murine microglia are insensitive to glucocorticoids in Wallerian degeneration.	Activation and proliferation of microglia are commonly described in the central nervous system after a wide range of insults, but the mechanisms that regulate their phenotype in vivo are still poorly understood. We have studied the effect that adrenalectomy and dexamethasone treatment have on the proliferation and activation of microglia during Wallerian degeneration of the optic nerve in BALB/c mice. We found that the onset and rate of microglia proliferation is independent of glucocorticoids. There was an increase in F4/80-positive cells 3 days after optic nerve crush, with a peak at 7 days, both in the optic nerve and its target, the superior colliculus. The numbers of F4/80-positive cells remained high up to 3 weeks after crush, the longest time point examined. We also found that up-regulation of F4/80 and the complement receptor type 3 and expression of major histocompatibility complex class II antigens were not affected by adrenalectomy or dexamethasone treatment. These observations show that, unlike microglia in vitro or peripheral macrophages, microglia do not readily respond to glucocorticoids, which could indicate a lack of or reduced expression of glucocorticoid receptor in these cells.
