Wallerian degeneration of the inferior cerebellar peduncle depicted by diffusion weighted imaging.	Wallerian degeneration of the inferior cerebellar peduncle has never been demonstrated on imaging studies. We describe a case in which it was depicted by thin slice diffusion weighted imaging. Location to the inferior cerebellar peduncle was confirmed by a fibre tracking method.
Evidence of axonal damage in human acute demyelinating diseases.	Substantial axon damage, detected by immunostaining for beta amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) has been demonstrated in acute demyelinating lesions in multiple sclerosis.
Skin denervation, neuropathology, and neuropathic pain in a laser-induced focal neuropathy.	Small-diameter sensory nerves innervating the skin are responsive to noxious stimuli, and an injury to these nerves is presumably related to neuropathic pain. Injury-induced neuropathic pain in animals can be produced by laser irradiation, which usually requires concomitant use of photosensitive dyes, known as the photochemical approach. It is not clear whether laser irradiation alone can induce neuropathic pain. In addition, two issues are important to apply these approaches: the relationship between the extent of laser irradiation and the occurrence of neuropathic pain, and the susceptibility of small-diameter sensory nerves in the skin to laser-induced neuropathic pain. To address these issues, we designed a new model of focal neuropathy by applying a diode laser of 532 nm (100 mW) to the sciatic nerve and evaluated small-diameter nerves by quantifying skin innervation and large-diameter nerves by measuring amplitudes of the compound muscle action potential (CMAP). Immediately after laser irradiation, epineurial vessels were occluded due to the formation of thrombi, and the blood flow through these vessels was markedly reduced. On postoperative day (POD) 2, animals developed characteristic manifestations of neuropathic pain, including spontaneous pain behaviors, thermal hyperalgesia, and mechanical allodynia. These phenomena peaked during PODs 7-21, and lasted for 3-6 weeks. The neuropathology at the irradiated site of the sciatic nerve included a focal area of axonal degeneration surrounded by demyelination and endoneurial edema. The extent of damage to large-diameter motor and sensory nerves after laser irradiation was evaluated by nerve conduction studies. On the irradiated sides, amplitudes of the compound muscle action potentials and sensory nerve action potentials (SNAPs) were reduced to 65.0% (P < 0.0001) and 42.5% (P < 0.01) of those on the control sides, respectively. Motor innervation of the neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) on plantar muscles was examined by combined cholinesterase histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. The ratio of innervated NMJs on the operated sides decreased to 76.3% of that on the control side. Skin innervation in the territory of the irradiated sciatic nerves was evaluated by immunohistochemistry with neuronal markers. Among these markers, epidermal nerve densities for protein gene product (PGP) 9.5, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and substance P (SP) were significantly lower on the irradiated sides than the control sides with a different degree of loss for each marker (42.1-53.1%, P < 0.05). Results suggest that laser-induced focal neuropathy provides a new system for studying neuropathic pain. With this approach, the extent of nerve injury can be quantified. Both small-diameter epidermal nerves and large-diameter sensory and motor nerves are susceptible to laser-induced injury of different degrees.
Time course of wallerian degeneration after ischaemic stroke revealed by diffusion tensor imaging.	Wallerian degeneration (WD) after ischaemic stroke is a well known phenomenon following a stereotypical time course. Whereas conventional magnetic resonance imaging fails to detect signal intensity changes until four weeks after stroke, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) reveals changes related to WD only after days. DTI was used to monitor the time course of Wallerian degeneration of the pyramidal tract from the early subacute to the late chronic stage of ischaemic stroke in two patients. A progressive decrease of fractional anisotropy was found along the pyramidal tract in the cerebral peduncle below the primary lesion resulting from progressive changes in the principal diffusivities, as well as a slight increase in the orientationally averaged diffusivity in the chronic phase. These signal changes reflect the progressive disintegration of fibre structures resulting from WD.
Detection of degeneration in rat sciatic nerve by in vivo near infrared spectroscopy.	We have recently developed an optical spectroscopy technique to monitor light scattering changes of the nervous system in vivo. Near infrared (NIR) spectroscopy emphasizes the detection of light scattering properties, which are prominent within the wavelength range of 700 to 850 nm wavelength. The purpose of this study is to test the hypothesis that demyelination and degeneration of the sciatic nerves after nerve injury will lead to a change in light scattering properties and be detected by the NIR technique. Left spinal nerve ligations (L4, L4 and L5, L5) were performed in rats. The scattering properties of the left (ligated) and right (control) sciatic nerve were measured by the NIR reflectance using a bifurcated needle probe at postoperative days 1, 4, 7, and 14. The results show that there was no significant difference among three types of ligation, and neither did the readings between left and right sciatic nerve at postoperative day 1. Significant decreases in light scattering indexes were found between left and right sciatic nerves at postoperative days 4, 7, and 14. It is concluded that our initial hypothesis is proven, suggesting that the NIR technique may have a potential for clinical application in detecting demyelination and degeneration of the nervous system.
Visceral and orofacial somatic afferent fiber terminals converge onto the same neuron in paratrigeminal nucleus: An electron microscopic study in rats.	The paratrigeminal nucleus (Pa5) receives visceral sensory inputs through the vagus (X) and glossopharyngeal (IX) nerves and somatic sensory inputs through the trigeminal (V) nerve. In the present study, transganglionic transport of the WGA-HRP and Wallerian degeneration was used to identify whether two kinds of primary afferent fiber terminals converge onto a single neuron in the Pa5 at the utrastructural level. It was found that HRP-labeled and degenerated terminals originating from the IX and/or X nerves and infraorbital nerve formed asymmetrical synapses with unlabeled dendrites in the Pa5. Furthermore, approximately 7% (43/630) HRP-labeled and 31% (43/137) degenerated terminals formed synaptic connections with the same dendritic profiles simultaneously in the dorsal division of the Pa5. These results may provide a neuroanatomical substrate for integration of viscerosomatic sensory inputs associated with visceral and cardiovascular reflexes in the Pa5.
The lateral thoracic nerve and the cutaneous maximus muscle--a novel in vivo model system for nerve degeneration and regeneration studies.	We report a novel in vivo mouse model system to study regeneration of injured motor nerve and spatiotemporal pattern of denervation in experimental nerve diseases. The lateral thoracic nerve (LTN), as a pure motor nerve, innervates the cutaneous maximus muscle (CMM) by some of the shortest and the longest motor nerve fibers in the mouse body. Its branches and nerve terminals can be imaged in whole mount preparations. Here we describe the branching pattern of the LTN and its innervation of the CMM, and characterize degeneration and regeneration over time after a LTN crush by morphological and electrophysiological analyses. We demonstrate the utility of this model in a well-established neurotoxicity paradigm and in a genetic disease model of the peripheral neuropathy. Furthermore, this system enables punch biopsies that allow repeated and multi-location examinations for LTN regeneration and CMM reinnervation over time. The presence of the LTN and the CMM in a variety of species and its easy accessibility suggests that this in vivo model system offers considerable promise for future nerve degeneration and regeneration research.
Under pressure: cellular and molecular responses during glaucoma, a common neurodegeneration with axonopathy.	Glaucoma is a complex neurodegenerative disorder that is expected to affect 80 million people by the end of this decade. Retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) are the most affected cell type and progressively degenerate over the course of the disease. RGC axons exit the eye and enter the optic nerve by passing through the optic nerve head (ONH). The ONH is an important site of initial damage in glaucoma. Higher intraocular pressure (IOP) is an important risk factor for glaucoma, but the molecular links between elevated IOP and axon damage in the ONH are poorly defined. In this review and focusing primarily on the ONH, we discuss recent studies that have contributed to understanding the etiology and pathogenesis of glaucoma. We also identify areas that require further investigation and focus on mechanisms identified in other neurodegenerations that may contribute to RGC dysfunction and demise in glaucoma.
7T MRI of spinal cord injury.	A man with 25 years of mild left neck, arm, and leg paresthesias had initial MRI in 1996 identifying a left C3-4 dorsal horn cavernous hemangioma. In 1997, hemorrhage (C3-7) and resection induced left arm > leg proprioceptive loss and clumsiness. Three months after surgical resection, left upper-body pain recurred; 2 years later, disabling colocalizing itch recurred.(1) In 2012, ultra-high-resolution 7T MRI (figure) localized hemosiderin to specific dorsal horn laminae and detected rostral (C1-3) hypersignal invisible on conventional MRIs, most likely representing Wallerian degeneration.(2) These new imaging findings demonstrate the benefit of high-field spinal cord MRI and generate the hypothesis that his late-onset central itch might be related to delayed white matter degeneration.
Dermatan 4-O-sulfotransferase1 ablation accelerates peripheral nerve regeneration.	Chondroitin sulfate (CS) and dermatan sulfate (DS) proteoglycans are major components of the extracellular matrix implicated in neural development, plasticity and regeneration. While it is accepted that CS are major inhibitors of neural regeneration, the contributions of DS to regeneration have not been assessed. To enable a novel approach in studies on DS versus CS roles during development and regeneration, we generated a mouse deficient in the dermatan 4-O-sulfotransferase1 (Chst14(-/-)), a key enzyme in the synthesis of iduronic acid-containing modules found in DS but not CS. In wild-type mice, Chst14 is expressed at high levels in the skin and in the nervous system, and is enriched in astrocytes and Schwann cells. Ablation of Chst14, and the assumed failure to produce DS, resulted in smaller body mass, reduced fertility, kinked tail and increased skin fragility compared with wild-type (Chst14(+/+)) littermates, but brain weight and gross anatomy were unaffected. Neurons and Schwann cells from Chst14(-/-) mice formed longer processes in vitro, and Chst14(-/-) Schwann cells proliferated more than Chst14(+/+) Schwann cells. After femoral nerve transection/suture, functional recovery and axonal regrowth in Chst14(-/-) mice were initially accelerated but the final outcome 3months after injury was not better than that in Chst14(+/+) littermates. These results suggest that while Chst14 and its enzymatic products might be of limited importance for neural development, they may contribute to the regeneration-restricting environment in the adult mammalian nervous system. 
Natural history and prognostic value of corticospinal tract Wallerian degeneration in intracerebral hemorrhage.	The purpose of this study was to define the incidence, imaging characteristics, natural history, and prognostic implication of corticospinal tract Wallerian degeneration (CST-WD) in spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) using serial MR imaging.
Effect of macrophage suppression with silica on the proliferation of Schwann cells during Wallerian degeneration.	Effects of macrophage suppression on Schwann cell proliferation in Wallerian degeneration was investigated in vitro with thymidine autoradiography. Sciatic nerves of C57BL mice were transected shortly after an intraperitoneal injection of silica dust and Schwann cells were harvested at 1, 2, 3, 5, 7, and 10 days post-transection. In silica treated mice, Schwann cells from post-transected nerve stumps proliferated despite marked suppression of macrophages, although there was some initial delay. The results of this study suggest that the mechanism of Schwann cell proliferation is multifactorial and in addition to the influence of growth factors mediated and released by macrophages, other factor(s) such as degenerated axolemma may play a more pivotal role in Schwann cell proliferation in vivo.
Cold preserved nerve allografts: changes in basement membrane, viability, immunogenicity, and regeneration.	Rat sciatic nerve graft segments were harvested and pretreated by either placement in the University of Wisconsin Cold Storage Solution at 5 degrees C and storage from 1 to 26 weeks, or repeatedly freezing (-40 degrees C) and thawing (20 degrees C). Following pretreatment, grafts were transplanted as either syngeneic or allogeneic nerve grafts. Storage and freeze-thawing did not affect the Schwann cell basal lamina or laminin distribution of the peripheral nerve. Graft cell viability decreased with increasing time of storage, with some viable cells detectable even after 3 weeks of storage. Freeze-thawed grafts were not viable. Increasing time of storage led to decreasing immune response and graft rejection, but improved regeneration. Freeze-thawed and 26-week stored allografts were nonimmunogenic and rejection was not seen, but regeneration was delayed compared to autografts. Graft storage may become a useful adjunct to clinical nerve allografting to permit elective scheduling of surgery, provide greater time for preoperative tissue testing, and possibly blunt the immune response.
