Separation strategy for acidic chiral pharmaceuticals with capillary electrochromatography on polysaccharide stationary phases.	The effect of five factors on the capillary electrochromatographic enantioseparation of acidic compounds was studied using an experimental design. The studied factors were pH, acetonitrile content in the mobile phase, temperature, buffer concentration, and applied voltage. These experiments allowed defining a generic separation strategy applicable on acidic compounds with chemical and structural diversity. The starting screening conditions consist of a 45 mM ammonium formate electrolyte at pH 2.9 mixed with 65% acetonitrile, an applied voltage of 15 kV, and a temperature of 25 degrees C. The screening phase occasionally can be followed by an optimization procedure. Evaluation of the proposed strategy pointed out that it allows achieving baseline resolution within a relatively short time when a beginning of separation is obtained at the starting conditions. This strategy revealed enantioselectivity for 11 compounds out of 15, of which 10 could be baseline-separated after the proposed optimization steps.
Capillary electrochromatographic separation of racemates on a norvancomycin-bonded monolithic column under reversed-phase conditions.	Following a modified sol-gel process, a silica backbone was prepared in a fused-silica capillary, and it was then chemically modified with a glycopeptide antibiotic, norvancomycin (NVC), by a one-step in situ derivatization process. Several selected neutral and basic racemates were assessed on this column under reversed-phase conditions. The influences of pH and composition of mobile phase on enantioselectivity factor (alpha) and resolution (R(s)) were also evaluated. A comparison was made between the NVC-bonded column with other similar capillary columns in published papers to demonstrate its better enantioselectivity. Furthermore, warfarin was chosen as model compound to study the self-preconcentration effect of racemates on this column. The preconcentration is marked in terms of peak heights, with up to 8-10-fold increase for the enantiomers of warfarin without obvious loss in column performance. Experimental data also show that the extent of preconcentration follows the retention factor (k) for a given enantiomer.
Preparation and characterization of poly(l-phenylalanine) chiral stationary phases with varying peptide length.	Three new chiral stationary phases with different lengths of l-phenylalanine peptide were prepared by solid-phase synthesis with tert-butoxycarbonyl (Boc)-l-phenylalanine on silica. The effect of phenylalanine peptide length on enantioselectivity was studied. The best separation of R/S-warfarin was achieved by the chiral stationary phase with intermediate peptide length. These stationary phases were found to exist mainly in alpha-helical conformation by using FT-IR spectra. The end-capping reagents for the N-terminus of the peptide were also evaluated.
