Over-expression of NCS-1 in AtT-20 cells affects ACTH secretion and storage.	The effect of over-expressing neuronal calcium sensor 1 (NCS-1) upon stimulated adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) secretion was studied in AtT-20 cells. Stably-transfected AtT-20 cell lines over-expressing NCS-1 were obtained and compared to wild type AtT-20 cells. Corticotrophin releasing factor (CRF-41)-stimulated ACTH secretion from NCS-1 over-expressing cells was significantly reduced from that obtained in wild type AtT-20 cells. The effects of other stimulants of ACTH secretion from wild type AtT-20 cells were not attenuated in NCS-1 over-expressing cells. Calcium, guanosine 5'-O-(3'-thiotriphosphate) (GTP-gamma-S) and mastoparan stimulated ACTH secretion from permeabilised wild type AtT-20 and NCS-1 over-expressing AtT-20 cells with significantly greater ACTH secretion obtained in NCS-1 over-expressing cells. This study shows that in intact cells over-expression of NCS-1 reduces exocytotic ACTH release, while in permeabilised cells increases ACTH release. NCS-1 has multiple cellular targets and that directly and indirectly via these targets acts to increase the releasable ACTH pool while inhibiting CRF-41 stimulus-secretion coupling.
The promoter of the spinach PsaF gene for the subunit III of the photosystem I reaction center directs beta-glucuronidase gene expression in transgenic tobacco roots. Implication of the involvement of phospholipases and protein kinase C in PsaF gene expression.	PsaF is a nuclear encoded gene for the subunit III of photosystem I. It is located at the lumenal side of the thylakoid membrane and interacts with plastocyanin. Starting from a low-level expression in the cotyledons of etiolated seedlings the gene is upregulated by light. Light can be replaced by Ca2+ or phosphoinositides like phorbol myristate acetate, an analogue of diacylglycerol. We tested the effects of these components on PsaF promoter-driven gene expression in roots and found that the PsaF promoter includes a positive regulatory region [-220/-179] activated by cytokinin and a negative regulatory region [-687/-221] activated by abscisic acid. In addition, the promoter is activated by Ca2+, mastoparan and phorbol myristate acetate which suggests a role for phospholipases and protein kinase C in PsaF gene expression.
Hymenopteran venom stimulates adenylate cyclase in cultured human cells through a histamine receptor.	We have examined the effect of venom sac extract (VSE), prepared from two hymenopteran species, on intracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) accumulation in a cultured human cell line. VSE prepared from the oriental hornet (Vespa orientalis) and from the paper wasp (Polistes carolina) induced an increase in accumulation of cAMP in human, transformed, non-pigmented, ciliary epithelial cells. The effect of V. orientalis VSE on intracellular cAMP was dose-dependent. Blocking the response of adenylate cyclase-linked beta-adrenergic receptors was without effect on this cellular response to VSE. On the other hand, the response to VSE prepared from both species was suppressed almost totally by the H2-histamine receptor-specific antagonist, cimetidine. The findings are discussed in the light of earlier observations that described a significant reduction in intraocular pressure in vertebrate animals treated with V. orientalis VSE.
Mastoparan activates apical chloride and potassium conductances, decreases cell volume, and increases permeability of cultured epithelial cell monolayers.	Mastoparan is a tetradecapeptide. Mastoparan added to the apical surface of monolayers of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) epithelial cells, cultured on micropore filters, activated ion transport and increased the permeability of the paracellular pathway across the monolayers. In monolayers of similar MDCK cells in which the basolateral membrane was permeabilized with Staphylococcus aureus alpha toxin (Staph. alpha toxin), the effects of mastoparan on apical membrane ion conductances were dependent on the presence of guanosine triphosphate (GTP). Mastoparan and GTP increased apical membrane chloride conductance more than potassium conductance, with very little change in sodium conductance. In intact monolayers, addition of barium to the apical bath prevented mastoparan activation of ion transport and the increase in paracellular permeability. Increasing bath potassium to 130 mM also reduced ion transport and prevented the increase in paracellular permeability. We hypothesized that these observations could be linked by mastoparan activation of apical chloride and potassium conductances, with consequent decreases in cell volume and resultant increases in paracellular permeability. Addition of 270 mM mannitol to isosmotic media to decrease cell volume decreased MDCK monolayer transepithelial resistance. Addition of mastoparan to monolayers of MDCK cells grown on micropore filters decreased cell volume to the same extent as addition of 270 mM mannitol to isosmotic media. Addition of the potassium channel inhibitor, barium, prevented the decrease in cell volume in response to mastoparan. Mastoparan activates apical membrane chloride and potassium conductances in MDCK cells. The loss of these ions from the cells decreases cell volume, and the decrease in cell volume increases the permeability of the paracellular pathway.
Adenosine receptor-induced cAMP changes in D384 astrocytoma cells and the effect of bradykinin thereon.	In human D384 astrocytoma cells, cyclic AMP accumulation can be conveniently studied after labelling of the adenosine triphosphate pool (15 fmol cell-1) with [3H]adenine. In this study, adenosine had a biphasic effect on cyclic AMP accumulation, which was scarcely altered by blocking adenosine uptake and metabolism. Low concentrations of adenosine led to an inhibition of cyclic AMP accumulation, and higher concentrations led to stimulation. No effect of adenosine on cyclic AMP was observed unless phosphodiesterase was inhibited by rolipram. The A1 receptor antagonist DPCPX attenuated the inhibitory phase of adenosine response, and enhanced the cyclic AMP accumulation induced by adenosine analogues. The cyclic AMP accumulation was stimulated by NECA greater than ADO greater than CGS 21680 greater than CV 1808 greater than CPA greater than or equal to CHA, indicating mediation by A2 receptors. The stimulatory effect of NECA was much more effectively blocked by the combined A1 and A2 receptor antagonist CGS 15943 (KB 4 nmol l-1) than by the A1 antagonist DPCPX (KB 110 nmol l-1). Treatment of the cells with pertussis toxin (0.2 microgram ml-1 for 2.5 h) potentiated the cyclic AMP response to adenosine analogues significantly. The cyclic AMP response to NECA was enhanced by the protein kinase C activator phorbol dibutyrate even after pertussis toxin treatment. By contrast, nanomolar concentrations of bradykinin, which increases Ca(2+)-levels and protein kinase C activity in D384 cells, reduced NECA-induced cyclic AMP accumulation in control and pertussis toxin-treated cells. Thus, D384 cells possess both A1 and A2 adenosine receptors influencing cyclic AMP in opposite directions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Philanthotoxins block glutamatergic transmission in rat hippocampus--I. Reduction of high affinity glutamate uptake demonstrated by light microscopy surface autoradiography.	1. Effects of structural philanthotoxin (PTX) analogues on the high affinity uptake of [3H]-L-glutamate by slices of the rat hippocampus were studied using light microscopy surface autoradiography. 2. Considering the various effects of the PTX-analogues it can be concluded that the presence of an aromatic nucleus in the molecule is an important moiety, while the number and distribution of positive charges in the polyamine chain seems to be of a still not understood importancy.
Philanthotoxins block glutamatergic transmission in rat hippocampus--II. Inhibition of synaptic transmission in the CA1 region.	1. Philanthotoxins decrease the amplitude of the population spike (PS), the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (f-EPSP), and the presynaptic volley (PV), as evoked by Shaffer-collateral-commisural inputs to the CA1 pyramidal cells in the rat hippocampus slice. 2. The effects are slow and often not completely reversible. 3. Dideaza-philanthotoxin-12 is, in all experiments, the most active antagonist showing a very poor recovery. 4. Using a twin pulse the percentual decreases of f-EPSP and PV amplitudes are almost identical for the first and second response. However, the first PS is much more affected than the second one, indicating a possible effect on the inhibiting circuit. 5. Philanthotoxins cause a non-competitive inhibition. 6. Besides a possible postsynaptic block and a distinct presynaptic effect (preceding paper) a non-postsynaptic effect (on the PV) is described.
The Rac/Cdc42 guanine nucleotide exchange factor beta1Pix enhances mastoparan-activated Gi-dependent pathway in mast cells.	Carbachol stimulates granule exocytosis, phospholipase C (PLC), and phospholipase D (PLD) in RBL-2H3hm1 mast cells by a mechanism that involves Galphaq. However, mastoparan stimulates the same responses through Gi protein. Both Gi and Galphaq pathways are suppressed by Clostridium difficile toxin B, suggesting that Rac and Cdc42 small GTPases are also involved. Over-expression of beta1Pix, a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Rac and Cdc42, enhances mastoparan-but not carbachol-induced hexosaminidase secretion and PLC and PLD activation. Furthermore, cells expressing beta1Pix exhibit elevated levels of mastoparan-stimulated IP3 production. Taken together, these findings implicate beta1Pix in regulating hexoasaminidase secretion and IP3 production in early stage upon mastoparan stimulation.
Comparison of an inducible oxidative burst in free-living and symbiotic dinoflagellates reveals properties of the pseudopterosins.	An oxidative burst in free-living and symbiotic dinoflagellates induced by physical stress is defined and characterized. The oxidative burst occurred within 1 min of physical injury caused by short pulses of low frequency sonic sound (20 kHz, 10 s pulses). The quantities of reactive oxygen species were measured using a spectrofluorometric assay and standardized to hydrogen peroxide. Using pharmacological probes, the oxidative burst was found to contain upwards of 95% hydrogen peroxide and was believed to be of enzymatic origin. Symbiotic dinoflagellates of the genus Symbiodinium sp. isolated from the gorgonian coral Pseudopterogorgia elisabethae produced a burst that was less than 33% of the magnitude of the oxidative burst in Symbiodinium sp. isolated from Pseudopterogorgia americana and less than 2% of the magnitude of the oxidative burst in the related free-living dinoflagellate, Heterocapsa pygmaea. We recently reported that Symbiodinium sp. from Pseudopterogorgia elisabethae contain high levels of the unique diterpene metabolites, the pseudopterosins, not found in the free-living Heterocapsa pygmaea and Symbiodinium sp. isolated from Pseudopterogorgia americana. Pseudopterosins completely blocked the inducible oxidative burst when applied exogenously to these two dinoflagellate species. Preliminary evidence is presented that raises the possibility that the mechanism could involve inhibition of G-protein activation among many possibilities. These data are the first description of an inducible oxidative burst in dinoflagellates. The significance of the comparative oxidative burst in free-living and symbiotic dinoflagellates is discussed and the potential natural role of the pseudopterosins is postulated.
Effects of microinjections of neurotoxin AvTx8, isolated from the social wasp Agelaia vicina (Hymenoptera, Vespidae) venom, on GABAergic nigrotectal pathways.	Several investigations have provided information that defensive behaviors evoked by stimulation of deep layers of the superior colliculus (dlSC) are subjected to inhibitory nigral modulation. This inhibition is made mainly through GABAergic neurons from substantia nigra, pars reticulata (SNpr), that sends outputs toward neural networks of the deep layers of the superior colliculus and dorsal periaqueductal gray matter involved with the organization of fear-like responses. In this work, we compared the effects of two GABAergic agonists, muscimol and baclofen, with the effect of neurotoxin AvTx8 (1567 Da), isolated from the venom of the social wasp Agelaia vicina, microinjected into SNpr of Rattus norvegicus (Wistar rats) prior to dlSC saline or bicuculline microinjections, considering that wasp venom has some influence on the uptake of GABA and/or glutamate neurotransmitters. GABA(A) receptor blockade in the dlSC evoked a vigorous escape behavior, expressed by rapid running, jumps and turns, as compared to control. These defensive reactions were maximized after the intranigral GABA(A) agonism with muscimol, but not after in situ GABA(B) agonism. Nigral microinjection of AvTx8 induced similar effects to those of baclofen, decreasing the intensity of behavioral defensive reactions caused by GABA(A) receptor blockade in the dorsal mesencephalon. These findings suggest that AvTx8 has some effects on GABAergic neurotransmission, increasing the activity of the inhibitory nigro-collicular pathways, causing an anti-panic (antiaversive) effect. Therefore, our work suggests AvTx8 as a novel pharmacological tool to study differences between the two types of GABAergic receptors and excitatory amino acid-mediated mechanisms in the brain and brainstem networks.
Signaling pathways in ascidian oocyte maturation: effects of various inhibitors and activators on germinal vesicle breakdown.	The Ascidiacea, the invertebrate chordates, includes three orders; the Stolidobranchia is the most complex. Until the present study, the onset of oocyte maturation (germinal vesicle breakdown) had been investigated in only a single pyurid (Halocynthia roretzi), in which germinal vesicle breakdown (GVBD) begins when the oocyte contacts seawater (SW); nothing was known about internal events. This study strongly suggests the importance of protein phosphorylation in this process. Herdmania pallida (Pyuridae) functions like H. roretzi; GVBD occurs in SW. Oocytes of Cnemidocarpa irene (Styelidae) do not spontaneously undergo GVBD in SW but must be activated. Herdmania oocytes are inhibited from GVBD by pH 4 SW and subsequently activated by mastoparan (G-protein activator), A23187 (Ca2+ ionophore) or dimethylbenzanthracene (tyrosine kinase activator). This requires maturation promoting factor (MPF) activity; cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitors roscovitine and olomoucine are inhibitory. It also entails dephosphorylation as demonstrated by the ability of the phosphatase inhibitor vitamin K3 to inhibit GVBD. GVBD is also inhibited by the tyrosine kinase inhibitors tyrphostin A23 and genistein, and LY-294002, a phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase inhibitor previously shown to inhibit starfish GVBD. LY-294002 inhibits strongly when activation is by mastoparan or ionophore but not when activated by dimethylbenzanthracene (DMBA). The DMBA is hypothesized to phosphorylate a phosphatase directly or indirectly causing secondary activation, bypassing inhibition.
Excitatory amino acids: new tools for old stories or pharmacological subtypes of glutamate receptors: electrophysiological studies.	Although the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of L-glutamate receptor is well characterized, the significance of non-NMDA glutamate-sensitive binding sites is not well documented. In this study, a new tricyclic quinoxalinedione (NBQX) and an arthropod toxin (philanthotoxin) were shown to block responses of spinal neurones in vivo to kainate, quisqualate, and AMPA in parallel but had little effect on responses to NMDA. Philanthotoxin appeared to be a use-dependent antagonist consistent with a channel-blocking mode of action. On cortical wedges in vitro, however, NBQX proved to be a more potent antagonist of AMPA and quisqualate than of kainate (pA2 values of 7.1, 7.0, and 5.6, respectively) with no effect at 10 microM on responses to NMDA. These studies provide evidence that on cortical neurones, but not on spinal neurones. AMPA and kainate depolarize by pharmacologically different mechanisms.
Aluminum inhibits phosphatidic acid formation by blocking the phospholipase C pathway.	Aluminum (Al(3+)) has been recognized as a main toxic factor in crop production in acid lands. Phosphatidic acid (PA) is emerging as an important lipid signaling molecule and has been implicated in various stress-signaling pathways in plants. In this paper, we focus on how PA generation is affected by Al(3+) using Coffea arabica suspension cells. We pre-labeled cells with [(32)P]orthophosphate ((32)Pi) and assayed for (32)P-PA formation in response to Al(3+). Treating cells for 15 min with either AlCl(3) or Al(NO(3))(3) inhibited the formation of PA. In order to test how Al(3+) affected PA signaling, we used the peptide mastoparan-7 (mas-7), which is known as a very potent stimulator of PA formation. The Al(3+) inhibited mas-7 induction of PA response, both before and after Al(3+) incubation. The PA involved in signaling is generated by two distinct phospholipid signaling pathways, via phospholipase D (PLD; EC: 3.1.4.4) or via Phospholipase C (PLC; EC: 3.1.4.3), and diacylglycerol kinase (DGK; EC 2.7.1.107). By labeling with (32)Pi for short periods of time, we found that PA formation was inhibited almost 30% when the cells were incubated with AlCl(3) suggesting the involvement of the PLC/DGK pathway. Incubation of cells with PLC inhibitor, U73122, affected PA formation, like AlCl(3) did. PLD in vivo activation by mas-7 was reduced by Al(3+). These results suggest that PA formation was prevented through the inhibition of the PLC activity, and it provides the first evidence for the role of Al toxicity on PA production.
Allosteric inhibition of rat neuronal nitric-oxide synthase caused by interference with the binding of calmodulin to the enzyme.	A sigmoid-type dependence on the inhibitor concentration was observed in the cytochrome c reductase activity for peptide inhibitors (mastoparan and melittin), calmodulin antagonists (W-7 and tamoxifen) and monobutyltin in a reconstituted system comprised of recombinant rat neuronal nitric-oxide synthase (nNOS) and calmodulin (CaM). The increase in the concentration of CaM in the system induced a decrease in the inhibitory effect, indicating that the inhibitors might interfere with the interaction between nNOS and CaM. The changes in the fluorescence spectra of dansylated CaM caused by the addition of mastoparan, melittin and monobutyltin indicated complex formation between CaM and those compounds, which led to the decrease in the effective concentration of CaM available to nNOS. The sigmoid-type inhibition of mastoparan and melittin fit the theoretical equations quite well, assuming that two CaM molecules bind cooperatively to one nNOS homodimer. Monobutyltin, tamoxifen and W-7 were found to inhibit nNOS activity by binding to the CaM binding site of the nNOS homodimer, in addition to the binding of the inhibitors to calmodulin. These compounds inhibited the L-citrulline formation of nNOS from L-arginine, and the inhibitory effects were abrogated by raising the concentration of calmodulin. It became clear that the binding of calmodulin to nNOS can be interfered with in two ways: (1) via a decrease in the effective concentration of calmodulin caused by complex formation between the inhibitor and calmodulin, and (2) via the inhibition of the binding of calmodulin to nNOS caused by the occupation of the binding site by the inhibitor.
Involvement of a Go-type G-protein coupled to guanylate cyclase in the phototransduction cGMP cascade of molluscan simple photoreceptors.	Simple photoreceptors, namely photoresponsive neurons, designated as A-P-1, Es-1, Ip-2 and Ip-1, exist in the sea slug Onchidium ganglion. Previous works has shown that, of these, Ip-2 and Ip-1 respond to light with a hyperpolarizing receptor potential, caused by the opening of light-dependent, cGMP-gated K+ channels, whereas A-P-1 and Es-1 are depolarized by light, owing to the closing of the same K+ channels. The present study of Ip-2 or Ip-1 cells was undertaken to identify the G-proteins that couple light to the activation of guanylate cyclase (GC), thereby leading to the opening of K+ channels and the consequent hyperpolarizing photocurrents. The specific channel blocker, 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), and a GC inhibitor, LY-83583, both suppressed this hyperpolarizing photocurrent. N-ethylmaleimide and GDP-beta-S also inhibited this photocurrent, consistent with the involvement of G-proteins. Mastoparan an activator of both Go- and Gi-type G-proteins, induced an outward current. Furthermore, benzalkonium chloride (C(16)BAC), a selective activator of Go, dose-dependently generated an outward current similar to that induced by mastoparan. Both of these outward currents were susceptible to 4-AP, LY-83583 and N-ethylmaleimide. Taken together, these results suggest that phototransduction in Ip-2 or Ip-1 cells is triggered by a Go-type G-protein coupled to GC. Thus, this new cGMP cascade contrasts with the conventional phototransduction cGMP cascade mediated by the Gt-type G-protein coupled to phosphodiesterase, seen in the vertebrate photoreceptors and the above A-P-1 or Es-1 cells.
Mastoparan increases membrane permeability in rat parotid cells independently of action on G-proteins.	Mastoparan, a peptide toxin from wasp venom, stimulated the accumulation of inositol phosphates in rat parotid acinar cells. Addition of this peptide to fura-2-loaded cells resulted in a rapid increase in the fura-2 fluorescence ratio (340 nm/380 nm), suggesting that mastoparan stimulates an increase in cytosolic Ca2+ concentration. However, this change in the ratio appears to be due, in part, to fura-2 leakage from the cells, because addition of Mn2+, which quenches extracellular fura-2 fluorescence, reduced the increased fluorescence ratio. In addition to the fura-2 leakage, mastoparan caused considerable leakage of lactate dehydrogenase, a cytosolic marker enzyme. Furthermore, mastoparan decreased the number of trypan blue-excluding cells, indicating a decrease in cell viability. These results suggest that mastoparan enhances the membrane permeability by a mechanism independent of the activation of G-proteins.
Mastoparan induces oscillations of cytosolic Ca2+ in rat pancreatic acinar cells.	Microfluorimetry of fura-2 was used to monitor [Ca2+]i in single cells stimulated with the G-protein activating agent mastoparan. Mastoparan induced the generation of [Ca2+]i oscillations, which in contrast to oscillations induced by low concentrations of CCK were acutely dependent on the presence of extracellular Ca2+. Oscillations were inhibited by phorbol ester. Sodium fluoride, a known activator of G-proteins, gave similar results. Both mastoparan and CCK induced turnover of inositol phosphates, at concentrations higher than necessary to induce oscillations.
Cytotoxic, genotoxic/antigenotoxic and mutagenic/antimutagenic effects of the venom of the wasp Polybia paulista.	Hymenoptera venoms are constituted by a complex mixture of chemically or pharmacologically bioactive agents, such as phospholipases, hyaluronidases and mastoparans. Venoms can also contain substances that are able to inhibit and/or diminish the genotoxic or mutagenic action of other compounds that are capable of promoting damages in the genetic material. Thus, the present study aimed to assess the effect of the venom of Polybia paulista, a neotropical wasp, by assays with HepG2 cells maintained in culture. The cytotoxic potential of the wasp venom, assessed by the methyl thiazolyl tetrazolium assay (MTT assay), was tested for the concentrations of 10 μg/mL, 5 μg/mL and 1 μg/mL. As these concentrations were not cytotoxic, they were used to evaluate the genotoxic (comet assay) and mutagenic potential (micronucleus test) of the venom. In this study, it was verified that these concentrations induced damages in the DNA of the exposed cells, and it was necessary to test lower concentrations until it was found those that were not considered genotoxic and mutagenic. The concentrations of 1 ng/mL, 100 pg/mL and 10 pg/mL, which did not induce genotoxicity and mutagenicity, were used in four different treatments (post-treatment, pre-treatment, simultaneous treatment with and without incubation), in order to evaluate if these concentrations were able to inhibit or decrease the genotoxic and mutagenic action of methyl methanesulfonate (MMS). None of the concentrations was able to inhibit and/or decrease the MMS activity. The genotoxic and mutagenic activity of the venom of P. paulista could be caused by the action of phospholipase, mastoparan and hyaluronidase, which are able to disrupt the cell membrane and thereby interact with the genetic material of the cells or even facilitate the entrance of other compounds of the venom that can act on the DNA. Another possible explanation for the genotoxicity and mutagenicity of the venom can be the presence of substances able to trigger inflammatory process and, consequently, generate oxygen reactive species that can interact with the DNA of the exposed cells. 
Axon targeting of the alpha 7 nicotinic receptor in developing hippocampal neurons by Gprin1 regulates growth.	Cholinergic signaling plays an important role in regulating the growth and regeneration of axons in the nervous system. The α7 nicotinic receptor (α7) can drive synaptic development and plasticity in the hippocampus. Here, we show that activation of α7 significantly reduces axon growth in hippocampal neurons by coupling to G protein-regulated inducer of neurite outgrowth 1 (Gprin1), which targets it to the growth cone. Knockdown of Gprin1 expression using RNAi is found sufficient to abolish the localization and calcium signaling of α7 at the growth cone. In addition, an α7/Gprin1 interaction appears intimately linked to a Gαo, growth-associated protein 43, and CDC42 cytoskeletal regulatory pathway within the developing axon. These findings demonstrate that α7 regulates axon growth in hippocampal neurons, thereby likely contributing to synaptic formation in the developing brain.
Activation of MAP kinase by the LHRH receptor through a dual mechanism involving protein kinase C and a pertussis toxin-sensitive G protein.	The LHRH receptor in alpha T3-1 gonadotrope cells was shown to bring about a marked and sustained activation of MAP kinase. This response was prevented by protein kinase C inhibition or down-regulation and could be partially mimicked by phorbol ester. Additional evidence for inhibition of this response by pertussis toxin and partial mimicry by mastoparan (in a pertussis toxin-sensitive manner) provides the first evidence for Gi/Go-mediated signal transduction by the LHRH receptor. This dual mechanism of MAP kinase activation appears to be exceptional amongst the G protein-linked receptors that have been investigated.
Erythropoietin modulation of intracellular calcium: a role for tyrosine phosphorylation.	We have reported that erythropoietin induces a dose-dependent increase in cytosolic calcium ([Cai]) in single human peripheral blood BFU-E derived erythroblasts which is specific for stage of differentiation and that this increase is modulated by erythropoietin through an ion channel permeable to Ca2+. Here, the role of protein phosphorylation in the increase in intracellular free calcium [Cai] stimulated by erythropoietin was studied with digital video imaging. Preincubation of day 10 erythroblasts with a broad inhibitor of serine/threonine and tyrosine kinases, staurosporine (100 nM), blocked the increase in [Cai] over 20 min following erythropoietin stimulation. However, erythropoietin-induced calcium influx was unaffected by preincubation of cells with specific inhibitions of protein kinase C (calphostin C) or the cAMP- or cGMP-dependent kinases (KT 5720, HA 1004), and [Cai] did not increase following stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) or dibutyryl cAMP. These results suggest that neither protein kinase C nor protein kinase A mediate the erythropoietin-induced [Cai] increase. In contrast, preincubation with genistein, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor, blocked the erythropoietin induced increase in [Cai]. To further study calcium entry in erythroblasts, we determined mastoparan, a peptide from wasp venom, induced a dose-dependent rise in [Cai] in erythroblasts which required external calcium. Stimulation of erythroid precursors with 10 microM mastoparan resulted in an increase in [Cai] from 52 +/- 3 nM to 214 +/- 36 nM which peaked at 20 min. The mastoparan-induced [Cai] increase was also dependent on tyrosine phosphorylation since it was blocked by preincubation with genistein. These results demonstrate that both erythropoietin and mastoparan stimulate calcium entry by a mechanism which has a genistein sensitive step and suggest that tyrosine kinase activation is required for the rise in [Cai] to occur.
Effects of mastoparan upon the late stages of the ACTH secretory pathway of AtT-20 cells.	1. The mouse AtT-20/D16-16 anterior pituitary tumour cell line was used as a model system for the study of the effects of mastoparan upon the late stages of the adrenocorticotrophin (ACTH) secretory pathway. 2. Mastoparan (10(-8)-10(-5) M), an activator of heterotrimeric guanosine 5'-triphosphate binding proteins (G-proteins), stimulated ACTH secretion from electrically-permeabilized AtT-20 cells in a concentration-dependent manner in the effective absence of calcium ions with a threshold of 10(-6) M. Guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP-gamma-S) (10(-8)-10(-4) M) also stimulated ACTH secretion from electrically-permeabilized AtT-20 cells in a concentration-dependent manner in the effective absence of calcium ions with a threshold of 10(-6) M. This GTP-gamma-S-evoked secretion is consistent with previous studies which demonstrated that a G-protein, termed GE, mediates calcium evoked ACTH secretion from AtT-20 cells. GTP-gamma-S-evoked secretion however was not as great as that obtained in response to mastoparan. 3. Both mastoparan (10(-5) M) and GTP-gamma-S (10(-4) M) stimulated ACTH secretion from electrically-permeabilized AtT20 cells in a time-dependent manner. A time of 30 min was adopted as the standard incubation period for the study of both mastoparan and GTP-gamma-S-stimulated ACTH secretion from permeabilized AtT-20 cells. 4. Mastoparan (10(-8)-10(-5) M) stimulated ACTH secretion from permeabilized AtT-20 cells to the same extent in the presence and absence of the protein kinase C (PKC) inhibitor, chelerythrine chloride (10(-5) M). 5. Mastoparan (10-8 10-5 M)-stimulated ACTH secretion from permeabilized AtT-20 cells was significantly reduced in the presence of guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (GDP-beta-S, 10-4 M).6. The mastoparan analogue, Mas-7 (10-8-10-5 M) stimulated ACTH secretion from permeabilized AtT-20 cells to a greater extent than mastoparan (10-8 10-5 M) however, the mastoparan analogue Mas-17 (10-8- 10-5 M) had no effect upon ACTH secretion from permeabilized AtT-20 cells.7. Mastoparan (10-8-10-5 M) stimulated ACTH secretion from permeabilized AtT-20 cells in the presence and absence of ATP, normally present in the standard permeabilization medium at a concentration of 5 mM. Mastoparan (10-8- 10-5 M)-stimulated ACTH secretion as well as control secretion was reduced when ATP was omitted.8. The results of the present study demonstrate that mastoparan stimulated ACTH secretion from permeabilized AtT-20 cells and displayed characteristics consistent with calcium ion- and GTP-y-gamma-S-stimulated ACTH secretion from permeabilized AtT-20 cells. This suggests that in permeabilized AtT-20 cells, mastoparan directly activates GE and that this G-protein may be a heterotrimeric G-protein. This study also suggests mastoparan may be a useful alternative to GTP-gamma-S as a means of directly activating GE.
Activation of G proteins bidirectionally affects apoptosis of cultured cerebellar granule neurons.	Cultured cerebellar granule neurons maintained in depolarizing concentrations of K+ (25 mM) and then switched to physiological concentrations of K+ (5 mM) undergo apoptosis. We now report that activation of specific G proteins robustly and bidirectionally affects apotosis of cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons. Stimulation of Gs with cholera toxin completely blocks apoptosis induced by nondepolarizing concentrations of K+, whereas stimulation of Go/Gi with the wasp venom peptide mastoparan induces apoptosis of cerebellar granule neurons even in high (depolarizing) concentrations of K+. Moreover, pretreatment of cerebellar granule neurons with cholera toxin attenuates neuronal death induced by mastoparan. By contrast, pertussis toxin, cell-permeable analogues of cyclic AMP, and activators of protein kinase A do not affect apoptosis of cultured cerebellar granule neurons. These data suggest that G proteins may function as key switches for controlling the programmed death of mammalian neurons, especially in the developing CNS.
Structural requirements of mastoparan for activation of membrane-bound guanylate cyclase.	Mastoparan activated membrane-bound guanylate cyclase and potentiated the effect of atrial natriuretic factor (ANF) and ATP on guanylate cyclase activity in rat lung membranes. Mastoparan is a cationic, amphiphilic tetradecapeptide with an amidated carboxyl terminus. It takes the alpha-helical conformation upon interacting with the membrane. Several analogs were synthesized to study the role of the positive charges, the carboxyl amino group and the alpha-helical conformation of mastoparan in the activation of guanylate cyclase. The results showed that substitution of the C-terminal amide group of mastoparan with a carboxyl group significantly reduced its potency on the activation of guanylate cyclase. Replacement of three lysine residues of mastoparan with aspartic acid or serine residues completely abolished the stimulatory effect of mastoparan. When the alanine at position 10 of mastoparan was substituted by a proline, the resulting analog had no effect on guanylate cyclase activity. These results demonstrate that the positive charges and the helical structure of mastoparan are critical determinants for the activation of guanylate cyclase.
Activated mutants of the alpha subunit of G(o) promote an increased number of neurites per cell.	The high concentration of the GTP-binding protein G(o) in the neuronal growth cone suggests that G(o) activation state may after neurite outgrowth. We find that activation of pertussis toxin-sensitive G-proteins by mastoparan increases neurite outgrowth from neuroblastoma cells. To examine G(o) activation specifically, point mutations homologous to activating, oncogenic mutations in alpha i2 and alpha s were introduced into the alpha subunit of G(o). The stability of the alpha o mutants to tryptic digestion confirms that they are activated. When expressed in PC12 or N1E-115 cells, activated alpha o doubles total neurites length per cell, primarily by increasing the number of neurites per cell. The growth cones of cells expressing activated alpha o are narrower than control growth cones. Expression of wildtype alpha o or the activated alpha subunits of other G-proteins did not affect total neurite length per cell. Thus, factors that lead to activation of G(o) can modulate neurite number per cell.
Synergistic activation of a G protein-coupled receptor kinase by G protein beta gamma subunits and mastoparan or related peptides.	Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChR, m2 subtype) are phosphorylated in an agonist-dependent manner by a G protein-coupled receptor kinase (GR kinase) at sites located in the central part of mAChR. The GR kinase phosphorylated a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein containing the m2 phosphorylation sites (13-GST). Phosphorylation of 13-GST was markedly stimulated by mastoparan: the Km for 13-GST decreased from 7.3 to 0.17 microM in the presence of 100 microM mastroparan and the Vmax increased 23-fold. beta gamma Subunits of G proteins synergistically stimulated the phosphorylation of 13-GST in the presence of 1-10 microM mastoparan by increasing the affinity of mastoparan for the GR kinase. The phosphorylation of mAChR by the GR kinase was also synergistically stimulated by 1-10 microM mastoparan in the presence of beta gamma subunits, but was inhibited by 100 microM mastoparan. Similar stimulatory and inhibitory effects on the phosphorylation of 13-GST and mAChR were observed using synthetic peptides of 15-20 amino acid residues corresponding to sequences of intracellular segments adjacent to the transmembrane segments of mAChR. These results are consistent with and support the idea that the GR kinase is synergistically activated by both G protein beta gamma subunits and agonist-bound receptors.
Unexpected contractile response from the G-protein activator mastoparan in cardiac myocytes.	Mastoparan preferentially activates the G protein Gi in transmembrane signalling pathways. In heart tissue Gi couples receptors to negative inotropy so we have examined the effect of mastoparan on contractility in cardiac myocytes electrically stimulated at 0.5 Hz. Mastoparan (10(-5) mol/l) caused a time-dependent increase in cell shortening to a maximum of 83.7 +/- 18.0% (n = 7) of the resting cell length at between 4 and 7 min. This could be the result of either stimulation of other G proteins or the release of beta gamma subunits from Gi which activate phospholipase C.
Interaction of mastoparan-B from venom of a hornet in Taiwan with phospholipid bilayers and its antimicrobial activity.	Mastoparan B (MP-B), an amphiphilic alpha-helical peptide newly isolated from the hornet Vespa basalis, was studied in comparison with mastoparan (MP), in terms of interaction with the phospholipid bilayer and of hemolytic and antimicrobial activity. The amphiphilic structure of MP-B has more hydrophilic amino acid residues in the hydrophilic surface than that of MP. Although each peptide had a considerably different effect on the interaction with lipid bilayers (e.g., their conformation in the presence of acidic and of neutral lipids and dye-release ability from the encapsulated liposomes), on the whole the interaction mode was similar. MP-B caused a change in the shape of erythrocytes from normal discoid to a crenated form (named echinocytes). MP exhibited strong activity against gram-positive bacteria but not against gram-negative ones. Contrary to this, MP-B showed both strong activity against gram-positive bacteria and potent activity against gram-negative bacteria. Whereas both peptides have almost the same residues on the hydrophobic side, the difference in the hydrophilic surface area on the molecules seems to lead to the subtle change in its interaction with membranes, resulting in the alteration of biological activity.
Identification of diacylglycerol pyrophosphate as a novel metabolic product of phosphatidic acid during G-protein activation in plants.	We provide evidence that phosphatidic acid (PtdOH) formed during signaling in plants is metabolized by a novel pathway. In much of this study, 32Pi-labeled Chlamydomonas cells were used, and signaling was activated by adding the G-protein activator mastoparan. Within seconds of activation, large amounts of [32P]PtdOH were formed, with peak production at about 4 min, when the level was 5-25-fold higher than the control. As the level of [32P]PtdOH subsequently decreased, an unknown phospholipid (PLX) increased in radiolabeling; before activation it was barely detectable. The chromatographic properties of PLX resembled those of lyso-PtdOH and CMP.PtdOH but on close inspection were found to be different. PLX was shown to be diacylglycerol pyrophosphate (DGPP), the product of a newly discovered enzyme, phosphatidate kinase, whose in vitro activity was described recently (Wissing, J. B., and Behrbohm, H. (1993) Plant Physiol. 102, 1243-1249). The identity of DGPP was established by co-chromatrography with a standard and by degradation analysis as follows: [32P]DGPP was deacylated, and the product (glycerolpyrophosphate, GroPP) was hydrolyzed by mild acid treatment or pyrophosphatase to produce GroP and Pi as the only radioactive products. Since DGPP is the pyrophosphate derivative of PtdOH and is formed as the concentration of PtdOH decreases, we assumed that PtdOH was converted in vivo to DGPP. This was confirmed by showing that during a short labeling protocol while the specific radioactivity of DGPP was increasing, the specific radioactivity of the 32Pi derived from DGPP as above was higher than that of [32P]GroP. DGPP was also formed in suspension cultures of tomato and potato cells, and its synthesis was activated by mastoparan. Moreover, it was also found in intact tissues of a number of higher plants, for example, carnation flower petals, vetch roots, leaves of fig-leaved goosefoot, and common persicaria and microspores of rape seed. Our results suggest that DGPP is a common but minor plant lipid that increases in concentration when signaling is activated. Possible functions of DGPP in phospholpase C and D signaling cascades are discussed.
Effects of postmortem interval, age, and Alzheimer's disease on G-proteins in human brain.	Heterotrimeric G-proteins are critical components in many receptor-coupled signal transduction systems, and altered levels and functions of G-proteins have been implicated in several neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease. Investigations in postmortem human brain provide a direct approach to study G-protein involvement in neurological disorders. Therefore, the effects of postmortem interval, aging, and Alzheimer's disease on G-protein levels were determined in postmortem human brain and an assay to measure activation of G-proteins was developed. Within the postmortem interval range of 5 to 21 h, the levels of G alpha i1, G alpha i2, G alpha s, and G beta were stable, whereas G alpha q and G alpha o decreased slightly, in human prefrontal cortex. In subjects aged 19 to 100 y, decreased levels of G alpha q and G alpha o were significantly correlated with increased age, but levels of the other G-protein subunits did not vary. In Alzheimer's disease prefrontal cortex, superior temporal gyrus, and occipital cortex, all G-protein subunit levels were equivalent to those in matched controls except for a slight deficit in G alpha i1. An ELISA assay using selective antibodies was used to measure [35S]GTP gamma S binding to G alpha o and G alpha i1. Binding was proportional to the concentration of GTP-gamma S and was concentration-dependently stimulated by mastoparan equivalently in control and Alzheimer's disease prefrontal cortical membranes.
Susceptibilities of Bordetella pertussis strains to antimicrobial peptides.	We examined the susceptibilities of Bordetella pertussis strains to several antimicrobial peptides by determining the concentration required to inhibit or kill 50% of the bacterial population. The peptides are ranked in decreasing potency as follows: cecropin B > cecropin A >> melittin > cecropin P1 > (ala8,13,18)-magainin II amide > mastoparan = defensin HNP1 > protamine > or = magainin II = magainin I. By using a radial diffusion assay to compare susceptibilities between strains, wild-type B. pertussis BP338 was more resistant than the avirulent bvg mutant strain BP347 and the brk mutant strain BPM2041 to killing by cecropin P1. In contrast, compared with the wild type, the avirulent BP347 strain was highly resistant to killing by protamine and defensin HNP1.
Effects of alpha-pompilidotoxin on synchronized firing in networks of rat cortical neurons.	We studied the effect of a novel neurotoxin, alpha-pompilidotoxin (alpha-PMTX) on the spontaneously synchronized network firing of cultured rat cortical neurons. Alpha-PMTX acted immediately and irreversibly to disrupt synchronous activity, leaving only residual sparse, uncorrelated firing and was effective at concentrations of 10 nM. In the presence of bicuculline to block inhibitory synaptic transmission, the shutdown in synchronized activity occurred with a significant delay, required a higher concentration of alpha-PMTX (> 100 nM), and was preceded by a transiently increased level of firing. It appears that both inhibitory and excitatory neuronal activity or synaptic transmission are amplified by alpha-PMTX, but that intense activity eventually leads to inactivation or transmitter depletion.
