Differentiation of porcine circovirus 1 and 2 in formalin-fixed, paraffin-wax-embedded tissues from pigs with postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome by in-situ hybridisation.	Non-radioactive digoxigenin (DIG)-labelled probes that can differentiate porcine circovirus (PCV) 1 from PCV2 in formalin-fixed, paraffin-wax-embedded tissues by in-situ hybridisation were developed. A 349 base pair (bp) DNA fragment from open reading frame (ORF) 1 of PCV1 and a 481 bp DNA fragment from ORF2 of PCV2 generated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) were used as PCV1 and PCV2 probes, respectively. A specific DIG-labelled PCV1 DNA probe did not hybridise with PCV2-infected PK-15 cells and vice versa. From the 40 field cases with postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome tested by in-situ hybridisation, 30 (75 per cent) cases were PCV2-positive only and 10 (25 per cent) cases were positive for both PCV1 and PCV2. PCV1 and PCV2 DNAS were detected mainly in the macrophages of lymph nodes and spleens. Positive cells typically exhibited a dark brown to black reaction product mainly in the cytoplasm but also occasionally in the nucleus. In-situ hybridisation together with the differential probes developed in the present study represent an additional tool capable of differentiating of both types of PCV in formalin-fixed, paraffin-wax-embedded tissues.
Eucaryotic expression of the nucleocapsid protein gene of porcine circovirus type 2 and use of the protein in an indirect immunofluorescence assay for serological diagnosis of postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome in pigs.	The purpose of this study was to develop a sensitive, rapid, and inexpensive immunofluorescence assay (IFA) using a recombinant porcine circovirus type 2 (PCV2) nucleocapsid protein for the serological detection of PCV2-specific antibodies in pig sera. The viral nucleocapsid protein encoded by the PCV2 ORF2 gene has recently been identified as the most immunoreactive viral protein that carries type-specific antigenic determinants. The ORF2 sequence of the IAF-2897 strain of PCV2 has been cloned into a pCEP5 eucaryotic expression vector under the control of the cytomegalovirus promoter, downstream of a polyhistidine sequence tag. The recombinant plasmid was used in transfection experiments with human epithelial kidney 293 cells that were further tested, and positive expression of the viral nucleocapsid protein was confirmed by IFA and Western blotting. Strong, specific fluorescence was observed in the nuclei of transfected cells. Test specificity to PCV2 was verified with several related infectious agents. Sensitivity was compared to that of standard IFA using PCV2-infected cells by evaluating the reactivities of 44 field serum samples from pigs on farms with a porcine population suffering from postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome. The recombinant nucleocapsid-based test was able to detect 15 more positive-testing pigs than the PCV2-based IFA. Therefore, the relative sensitivity of the latter test was estimated at only 57.1% compared to that of the recombinant nucleocapsid-based test. The recombinant fusion protein has been purified by affinity chromatography and is being used to develop further sensitive serological tests.
X-linked lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia associated with renal phosphate wasting.	X-linked lissencephaly with abnormal genitalia (XLAG) is a rare disorder caused by mutations in the aristaless-related homeobox (ARX) gene. We report on the clinical data of a boy with a 1-bp deletion (790 delC) resulting in a frame shift in the ARX gene and prolonged survival until age 18 months. Similar to other patients, the boy showed postnatal microcephaly, hypothalamic dysfunction, intractable neonatal seizures, and chronic diarrhoea. In addition, he suffered from exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and renal phosphate wasting became apparent from age 5 months, both of which have not been described previously in XLAG. This allows us to speculate that the phenotype of XLAG is more complex than hitherto known and may include renal phosphate wasting which might not have been observed in other patients due to early death.
Cerebral correlates of hyponatremia.	Hyponatremia, defined as a serum sodium concentration ([Na+]) less than 135 mEq/L, is commonly caused by elevated levels of the hormone arginine vasopressin (AVP), which causes water retention. The principal organ affected by disease-related morbidity is the brain. The neurologic complications associated with hyponatremia are attributable to cerebral edema and increased intracranial pressure, caused by the osmotically driven movement of water from the extracellular compartment into brain cells. Although neurologic symptoms induced by hyponatremia are limited by an adaptive brain mechanism known as "regulatory volume decrease," an overly rapid correction of serum [Na+] before the reversal of this adaptive response can also produce neurologic damage. The syndrome of inappropriate secretion of antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) is a frequent cause of hyponatremia related to central nervous system disorders, neurosurgery, or the use of psychoactive drugs. Fluid restriction is the standard of care for patients with SIADH who are asymptomatic or who have only mild symptoms, but patients with severe or symptomatic hyponatremia require more aggressive therapy. Infusion of hypertonic saline is the usual approach to the treatment of symptomatic hyponatremia, but patients require frequent monitoring. Pharmacologic agents such as demeclocycline and lithium may be effective in some patients but are associated with undesirable adverse events. The AVPreceptor antagonists are a new therapeutic class for the treatment of hyponatremia. The first agent in this class approved for the treatment of euvolemic hyponatremia in hospitalized patients is conivaptan. Two other agents, tolvaptan and lixivaptan, are being evaluated in patients with euvolemic and hypervolemic hyponatremia. The AVP-receptor antagonists block the effects of elevated AVP and promote aquaresis, the electrolyte-sparing excretion of water, resulting in the correction of serum [Na+]. These agents may also have intrinsic neuroprotective effects.
Involuntary weight loss.	Involuntary weight loss remains an important and challenging clinical problem, with a high degree of morbidity and mortality. Because of the frequency of finding a serious underlying diagnosis, clinicians must be thorough in assessment, keeping in mind a broad range of possible causes. Although prediction scores exist, they have not been broadly validated; therefore, clinical judgment remains ever essential.
