Anaerobic upflow fixed-film bioreactor for biomethanation of salty cheese whey.	In order to develop a suitable reactor for the biomethanation of high-strength salty cheese whey, the performance of anaerobic upflow fixed-film reactors packed with different support materials, such as charcoal, gravel, brick pieces, pumice stones, and PVC pieces, has been studied. The charcoal-bedded reactor gave the best performance, with the maximum gas production (3.3 L/L digester/d) and an enriched methane content (69% CH4). Temperature and hydraulic retention time were optimized, with the ultimate aim of improving biomethanation. Maximum gas production (3.3 L/L digester/d) was achieved at a hydraulic retention time of 2 d at 40 degrees C.
Photodegradation of organic waste coupling hydrogenase and titanium dioxide.	In this work the results of the study on the degradation of dairy waste and lactose with use of titanium dioxide (TiO2), as photocatalyst, are presented. The ability of TiO2 to degrade dairy waste is compared either in the presence of molecular oxygen or of a bacterial hydrogenase as electron acceptor. The enzyme-mediated H2 production rates or the O2 consumption rates are used to measure electron donor degradation. The results obtained clearly indicate that dairy waste can be degraded by the TiO2 photocatalyst. Proteins present in the dairy waste have a strong inhibitory effect on the degradation process. Indeed lactose alone can easily be degraded. When the protein extract obtained from the dairy waste was added to the lactose solution, the reaction for both electron acceptors, hydrogenase and oxygen, was inhibited. When the dairy waste solutions were diluted, there was a positive effect on the reaction rate. This was particularly true in the case of hydrogenase, and to a lesser extent in the case of oxygen acceptor. The reduction of the pH from 8 to 6 also increased H2 production when the enzyme was used.
Risk management and pollution prevention: thinking outside the box.	The Medical University of South Carolina's risk management department received a 12-month grant from South Carolina's General Assembly "Hazardous Waste Management Research Fund" for the purpose of identifying pollution prevention opportunities within South Carolina healthcare facilities. One hundred and one healthcare facilities were invited to participate in this study. Facilities ranged in size from zero-licensed beds (clinics) to more than 300 beds. Seventy-six South Carolina facilities (75%) participated in this project.
Distribution of enteric bacteria in Antarctic seawater surrounding a sewage outfall.	The spatial distribution and movement of the sewage plume from McMurdo Station, Antarctica, was investigated in the ocean under the early summer sea ice.  Ocean currents were also examined to determine their effect on the movement of the plume.  Samples of sea water were obtained via holes drilled through the ice and analyzed for coliform bacteria.  Coliform densities in ice cores were also determined.  Densities of coliform bacteria as high as 10(5)/100 ml were found along the c. 1 km shoreline of McMurdo Station and the plume extended 200-300 m seaward.  The relocation of the outfall from a surface configuration to the subsurface (11 m deep) had little influence on the distribution of the plume that sometimes reached the seawater intake station, 400 m to the south.  Ocean current measurements in the study area confirmed that, while the prevailing advection was to the north and away from the intake area, episodic reversals of flow at some current meter stations coincided with pulses of sewage that moved to the intake.  These findings support the use of bacterial indicators as one means to map the distribution and movement of recent sewage contamination in cold (-1.8 degrees C) sea water and provide evidence that the disposal and movement of domestic wastes deserves attention in coastal [correction of costal] polar environments.
Technology requirements for nonterrestrial ecosystems.	Factors associated with planning and implementing research and development for nonterrestrial closed-ecology life support systems have been analyzed in terms of systems engineering considerations. These factors are discussed in this paper to provide a planning overview. It is anticipated that systems of this type probably will be required for future manned space activities that would involve many participants in a space habitat, particularly at remote locations or for long-duration missions. Of particular interest are design scenarios that involve nonterrestrial ecosystems. Although these approaches offer the promise of being able to provide food regeneration by conventional processes, such as photosynthesis and essentially terrestrial agricultural methodology, the potential impact of nonterrestrial environmental conditions on these processes and criteria for ecological stability are not adequately defined. The role of these factors in research planning is discussed, and potentially relevant areas of research are described.
Struvite precipitation in anaerobic swine lagoon liquid: effect of pH and Mg:P ratio and determination of rate constant.	Because of increased concern about surface water eutrophication from nutrient-enriched agricultural runoff, many swine producers are encouraged to decrease application rates of waste-based P. Precipitation and subsequent removal of magnesium ammonium phosphate (MgNH(4)PO(4) x 6H(2)O), commonly known as struvite, is a promising mechanism for N and P removal from anaerobic swine lagoon effluent. The objectives of this research were to (i) quantify the effects of adjusting pH and Mg:P ratio on struvite precipitation and (ii) determine the rate constant pH effect for struvite precipitation in anaerobic swine lagoon liquid. Concentrations of PO(4)-P in liquid from two anaerobic swine lagoons were determined after 24 h of equilibration for a pH range of 7.5-9.5 and Mg:P ratios between 1:1 and 1.6:1. Struvite formation reduced the PO(4)-P concentration in the effluents to as low as 2 mgl(-1). Minimum concentrations of PO(4)-P occurred between pH 8.9 and 9.25 at all Mg:P ratios. Struvite precipitation decreased PO(4)-P concentrations by 85% within 20 min at pH 9.0 for an initial Mg:P ratio of 1.2:1. The rate of PO(4)-P decrease was described by a first-order kinetic model, with rate constants of 3.7, 7.9, and 12.3 h(-1) at pH 8.4, 8.7 and 9.0 respectively. Our results indicate that induced struvite formation is a technically feasible method to remove N and P from swine lagoon liquid and it may allow swine producers to recover nutrients for off-farm sale.
Co-composting of high moisture vegetable waste, flower waste and chicken litter in pilot scale]	Co-composting of different mixture made of vegetable waste, flower waste and chicken litter were studied. The first stage of composting was aerobic static bed based temperature feedback and control via aeration rate regulation. The second stage was window composting. At first stage, the pile was insulated and temperatures of at least 55 degrees C were maintained for a minimum of 3 days. The highest temperature was up to 73.3 degrees C. This is enough to kill pathogens. Moisture of pile decreased from 75% to 56% and organic matter was degraded from 65% to 50% during composting. The value of pH was stable at 8. Analysis of maturity and nutrition of compost showed that end-products of composting ware bio-stable and had abundant nutrition. This shows that co-composting of vegetable waste, flower waste and chicken litter can get high quality compost by optimizing composting process during 45 days. Composting can decrease nonpoint resource of organic solid waste by recycling nutrition to soil and improve fertility of soil.
Comparison of microbial communities in four different composting processes as evaluated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis.	We aimed to systematically understand the composting processes by a comparison of microbial communities during four full-scale composting processes.
Rapid oxidation of sulfide mine tailings by reaction with potassium ferrate.	The chemistry of sulfide mine tailings treated with potassium ferrate (K2FeO4) in aqueous slurry has been investigated. The reaction system is believed to parallel a geochemical oxidation in which ferrate ion replaces oxygen. This chemical system utilized in a pipeline (as a plug flow reactor) may have application eliminating the potential for tailings to leach acid while recovering the metal from the tailings. Elemental analyses were performed using an ICP spectrometer for the aqueous phase extract of the treated tailings; and an SEM-EDX for the tailing solids. Solids were analyzed before and after treatments were applied. ICP shows that as the mass ratio of ferrate ion to tailings increases, the concentration of metals in the extract solution increases; while EDX indicates a corresponding decrease in sulfur content of the tailing solids. The extraction of metal and reduction in sulfide content is significant. The kinetic timeframe is on the order of minutes.
Environmental accountability in perioperative settings.	Global environmental problems are connected to patient care issues. The amount and toxicity of medical waste have increased in recent decades. Certain medical products contribute significantly to pollution and contamination of the food chain with persistent, bioaccumulative toxins, including mercury and dioxins. Perioperative nurses need to understand how best to segregate waste and take advantage of opportunities for reuse and recycling. There are many ways nurses can contribute to pollution prevention in health care, some of which are detailed in this article.
Experiential learning as service for others.	Experiential learning provides an avenue for educating oneself, others, and communities and can lead to involvement in efforts designed to change social systems and improve conditions that affect a nation as a whole. This article provides an overview of experiential learning related to service and presents an example of one nurse's efforts to contribute to her community through the MERCI: Medical Equipment Recovery of Clean Inventory program at the University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville.
Bioremediation of diesel oil-contaminated soil by composting with biowaste.	Soil spiked with diesel oil was mixed with biowaste (vegetable, fruit and garden waste) at a 1:10 ratio (fresh weight) and composted in a monitored composting bin system for 12 weeks. Pure biowaste was composted in parallel. In order to discern the temperature effect from the additional biowaste effect on diesel degradation, one recipient with contaminated soil was hold at room temperature, while another was kept at the actual composting temperature. Measurements of composting parameters together with enumerations and identifications of microorganisms demonstrate that the addition of the contaminated soil had a minor impact on the composting process. The first-order rate constant of diesel degradation in the biowaste mixture was four times higher than in the soil at room temperature, and 1.2 times higher than in the soil at composting temperature.
Potential application of recycled rubber in oil pollution control.	The abundance and indiscriminate disposal of scrap tyres in urban areas in Nigeria create serious health and environmental problems. The potential of using rubber recycled from scrap tyres as an absorbent in crude oil clean up was investigated. Rubber particles of mesh sizes within the range of 0.15 to 2.36 mm were used to absorb crude oil at different temperatures (5 to 40 degrees C). The rapid increase in oil absorption within the first 20 min was followed by a much slower rate, with the equilibrium absorption being attained after 30 min. The equilibrium absorption increased with decreasing particle size and decreasing temperature of absorption. At 30 degrees C, the oil absorption for the 0.15 mm rubber particles was more than twice that of the 2.36 mm particle size. When regenerated recycled rubber was used, the equilibrium absorption decreased by about 15-40%. The extent of reduction was higher for the larger particles and at lower temperature of absorption.
Evaluation of simple microbiol tests for detection of fecal coliforms directly at 44.5 degrees C.	Simple microbial test comprising H2S paper strip test, presence-absence (PA) test, and fluorogenic brila broth (BB) test performed directly at 44.5 degrees C were evaluated and compared with the standard most probable number (MPN) method for detection of fecal coliforms in 173 drinking water sources. BB and PA test were comparable with standard MPN method, whereas, poor compliance was noted for H2S test. PA test when compared with standard MPN test only 15% disagreement was detected, whereas, highest disagreement of 40% was observed in case of H2S test. BB test was found to be highly sensitive as only 7.8% disagreement with that of standard MPN test was found. Three hundred cultures obtained from positive tests were identified in order to evaluate the specificities of test used in detection of fecal indicator Escherichia coli. BB test was also found highly specific in detection of indicator organism as compared to PA and H2S test. Among the organisms isolated from BB test 84.4% of them were identified as E. coli as compared to 43.4 and 33.3 in PA and H2S test, respectively. The low incidence of recovery of E. coli (18.1%) for the standard MPN method places doubt on the validity of its application in tropical areas. The result of this investigation suggest that BB performed directly at 44.5 degrees C could be suitable cost effective test to assess the microbiological quality of drinking water in India and other tropical countries.
Characterization of broiler cake and broiler litter, the by-products of two management practices.	The application of broiler manure and bedding (litter) on land has been a long-used disposal method that benefits plant and soil. For proper manure management, factors such as nutrient content, house cleaning management, application methods, and many land, crop, and climatic factors must be considered. A study was undertaken to characterize broiler cake and broiler litter as the by-products of two management systems in Mississippi. Broiler cake and litter productions were quantified and analyzed for four flocks during 1999 and 2000. The overall means for broiler cake production were 12.50, 13.90, and 10.30 kg m(-2) for producers 1, 2, and 3, respectively. Significantly greater quantities of litter, 27.50, 29.0, and 28.30 kg m(-2) than cake were determined for the same producers. The cake and litter moisture averaged 455 and 277 g kg(-1), respectively. No significant differences were observed between cake and litter total N, NH4-N, total C, total P, and water-soluble P (WP). However, cake had significantly greater Ca, Mg, K, Cu, Fe, Mn, and Zn than litter. Approximately 16.8% of the broiler cake and 15.2% of the broiler litter total P were in the form of water-soluble P. The NH4-N content of the cake and the litter were 12.5% and 11.5% of the cake and litter total nitrogen, respectively. The results also showed the advantage of the decaking practice with respect to the quantity of the manure generated for land application. Approximately 57% of the litter remains in the poultry house with decaking practice after each growth cycle compared to the 0% for total cleanout practice.
Pb uptake, accumulation, subcellular distribution in a Pb-accumulating ecotype of Sedum alfredii (Hance).	Lead concentrations in roots, stems and leaves of accumulating and non accumulating ecotypes of Sedum alfredii (Hance) were studied through a hydroponic experiment with different Pb concentrations supplied as Pb(NO(3))(2). Lead concentrations in leaves and stems of the accumulating ecotype were 4 - 9 times and 3 - 5 times those of the non-accumulating ecotype, and Pb accumulated amounts in stems and leaves of the accumulating ecotype were 4 - 9 times and 8 - 11 times higher than those of the non-accumulating ecotype, respectively. The results indicated that the accumulating ecotype had better ability to transport Pb from roots to shoots. The subcellular distributions of Pb in the root, stem and leaf tissues were studied using sucrose differential centrifugation. Approximately 50% of Pb contents was found to be associated with the cell wall fraction in stems of the accumulating ecotype and the percentage increased to 80% both in roots and leaves, no matter when plants were grown with different levels of Pb. The results indicated that the distribution of Pb on cell walls of the accumulating ecotype could mainly account for the high tolerance to Pb.
Role of flies and provision of latrines in trachoma control: cluster-randomised controlled trial.	Eye-seeking flies have received much attention as possible trachoma vectors, but this remains unproved. We aimed to assess the role of eye-seeking flies as vectors of trachoma and to test provision of simple pit latrines, without additional health education, as a sustainable method of fly control.
Decommissioning activities for NPP A-1 in the Slovak Republic.	This paper describes decommissioning activities and a proposed methodology for calculation of decommissioning parameters for the NPP A-1 in Jaslovske Bohunice in Slovak Republic.
Preventing improper disposal of healthcare facility waste containing RAM.	Non-hazardous waste management facilities, which are not authorized to receive licensable radioactive material (RAM), periodically find contaminated waste in shipments from local healthcare facilities. As a consequence, many healthcare facilities are cited each year for losing control and/or improperly disposing of RAM at unauthorized disposal sites. Healthcare radiation safety professionals must ensure that effective measures are in place at their facilities to prevent RAM from inadvertently being included with non-radioactive waste shipments. The objective of this article is to assist in developing and implementing procedures to properly monitor and dispose of waste containing RAM. This article discusses, among other topics, the installation of portal monitors containing both visual and audible alarms to screen medical waste, instruction to individuals handling medical waste and emergency response procedures.
Effect of dietary copper source (cupric citrate and cupric sulfate) and concentration on growth performance and fecal copper excretion in weanling pigs.	In each of two experiments, 924 pigs (4.99 kg BW; 16 to 18 d of age) were assigned to 1 of 42 pens based on BW and gender. Pens were allotted randomly to dietary copper (Cu) treatments that consisted of control (10 ppm Cu as cupric sulfate, CuSO4 x 5H2O) and supplemental dietary Cu concentrations of 15, 31, 62, or 125 ppm as cupric citrate (CuCit), or 62 (Exp. 2 only), 125 (Exp. 1 only), or 250 ppm as CuSO4. Live animal performance was determined at the end of the 45-d nursery phase in each experiment. On d 40 of Exp. 2, blood and fecal samples were collected from two randomly selected pigs per pen for evaluation of plasma and fecal Cu concentrations and fecal odor characteristics. In Exp. 1, ADG, ADFI, and G:F were increased (P < 0.05), relative to controls, when pigs were fed diets containing 250 ppm Cu as CuSO4. Pigs fed diets containing 125 ppm Cu as CuCit had increased (P < 0.05) ADG compared with pigs fed diets supplemented with 15 or 62 ppm Cu as CuCit. The ADG, ADFI, and G:F did not differ among pigs fed diets containing 125 and 250 ppm Cu as CuSO4 or 125 ppm Cu as CuCit. In Exp. 2, pigs fed diets containing 250 ppm Cu as CuSO4 had improved (P < 0.05) ADG, ADFI, and G:F compared with controls. In addition, ADG, ADFI, and G:F were similar when pigs were fed diets containing either 250 ppm Cu as CuSO4 or 125 ppm Cu as CuCit. Pigs fed diets containing 62 ppm Cu as CuSO4 or CuCit had similar ADG, ADFI, and G:F. Plasma Cu concentrations were not affected by dietary Cu source or concentration, but fecal Cu concentrations were increased (P < 0.05) as the dietary concentration of Cu increased. Pigs consuming diets supplemented with 125 ppm Cu as CuCit had fecal Cu concentrations that were lower (P < 0.05) than pigs consuming diets supplemented with 250 ppm Cu as CuSO4. Fecal Cu did not differ in pigs receiving diets supplemented with 62 ppm Cu as CuSO4 or CuCit. Odor characteristics of feces were not affected by Cu supplementation or source. These data indicate that 125 and 250 ppm Cu gave similar responses in growth, and that CuCit and CuSO4 were equally effective at stimulating growth and improving G:F in weanling pigs. Fecal Cu excretion was decreased when 125 ppm Cu as CuCit was fed compared with 250 ppm Cu as CuSO4. Therefore, 125 ppm of dietary Cu, regardless of source, may provide an effective environmental alternative to 250 ppm Cu as CuSO4 in weanling pigs.
Substance flow analysis of brominated flame retardants and related compounds in waste TV sets in Japan.	We conducted time-series substance flow analysis of two types of brominated flame retardants (BFRs)--polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) and tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA)--and two types of related compounds--Sb (used with BFRs for flame inhibition) and polybrominated dibenzo dioxins and furans (PBDDs/DFs: unintended byproducts)--in five size categories of waste TV sets in Japan. Two scenarios were created with BFR substitutions and compared to a "business as usual" scenario in order to obtain basic information for strategic product management. The results showed that the use of DecaBDE in rear and front covers of TV sets began in fiscal 1987-1990 and 1993-1996, respectively, and that TBBPA was used to some extent as a substitute for DecaBDE in the 90s. The amount of waste Br in the plastic covers is predicted to increase until at least fiscal 2020 due to the increasing size of TV sets. Although substitution of BFRs with non-BFRs in Japan by 2006 will reduce waste Br, the amount in waste TV sets will not peak until fiscal 2009. The results will help inform decisions in Japan regarding the recovery and disposal of waste TV sets. The methods used would benefit waste managers faced with similar issues in other countries.
Leaching from solid waste incineration ashes used in cement-treated base layers for pavements.	Waste incineration bottom ash and treated flue gas cleaning products mixed with 2.5% of cement (50 kg/m3) were tested in the laboratory in terms of compressive strength and tank leaching tests over a 64-day period. Although the material displayed lower mechanical strength than a reference concrete, the strength still was sufficient for use as a base layer for roads. The metal content in the incineration-residue-based specimens was up to 100 times higher than in the reference concrete, suggesting that the mixed waste incineration residue should be used only for dedicated purposes. The leaching of Cl and Na was increased by a factor of 20-100 from the incineration-residue-based specimens as compared to the reference, while the leaching of K, Ca and SO4 was increased by a factor of 2-10. The leaching of heavy metals was also higher from the incineration-residue-based specimens than from the reference with respect to Cu (50 times), Cd, Pb and Zn (5 times), but not with respect to Cr and Ni. The leaching curves did only allow for a closer evaluation of the leaching process in a few cases. The physical retention of the constituents seemed to be the same in the reference as in the incineration-residue-based specimens. Heavy metal leaching was limited by enhanced chemical retention in the incineration-residue-specimens as compared to the reference. Since no quality criteria in terms of leaching from a monolithic material are currently available, the leaching issue must be evaluated case by case.
Biodiversity, biosphere reserves, and the Big Apple: a study of the New York Metropolitan Region.	The objectives of this article were to assess the dimensions of biodiversity-urban society interactions within the New York Metropolitan Region, a 31-county area with a population of 21.5 million, and to explore pathways to reconcile dysfunctional relationships between these two ever-entwined systems. The article builds on the premise that urban biodiversity exists at a crucial nexus of ecological and societal interactions, linking local, regional, and global scales, and that urban ecologies are projected to become even more dynamic in the future, particularly as a result of global climate change. The pathway proposed to reconcile the biodiversity-urban society relationships is the incorporation of biosphere reserve strategies into regional environmental planning efforts focused on the New York/New Jersey Harbor/Estuary specifically and on the greater New York Metropolitan Region in general. The concepts of the "ecological footprint" and vulnerability to global environmental change are used to analyze the current interactions between biodiversity and urban society, and to evaluate the efficacy of adopting biosphere reserve strategies in the region. New York has long been at the forefront of American environmentalism and landscape planning. Coupled with this history is a still small but growing interest in regional environmental planning efforts (e.g., the U.S. EPA Harbor Estuary Program) and green infrastructure (e.g., the 2002 Humane Metropolis Conference organized by the Ecological Cities Project). The research presented here aims to contribute to these nascent activities. As a megacity, New York may serve as a model for other major cities of the world.
Processing of copper converter slag for metals reclamation: Part II: mineralogical study.	Chemical and mineralogical characterizations of a copper converter slag, and its products obtained by curing with strong sulphuric acid and leaching with hot water, were carried out using ore microscopy, scanning electronic microscopy with energy dispersive spectrometry, wave-length dispersive X-ray fluorescence spectrometry, X-ray diffractometry and chemical phase analysis, which provided necessary information to develop a new process for treating such slag and further understanding of the chemical and mineralogical changes in the process.
Foamed lightweight materials made from mixed scrap metal waste powder and sewage sludge ash.	The porous properties and pozzolanic effects of sewage sludge ash (SSA) make it possible to produce lightweight materials. This study explored the effects of different metallic foaming agents, made from waste aluminium products, on the foaming behaviours and engineering characteristics, as well as the microstructure of sewage sludge ash foamed lightweight materials. The results indicated that aluminium powder and mixed scrap metal waste powder possessed similar chemical compositions. After proper pre-treatment, waste aluminium products proved to be ideal substitutes for metallic foaming agents. Increasing the amount of mixed scrap metal waste by 10-15% compared with aluminium powder would produce a similar foaming ratio and compressive strength. The reaction of the metallic foaming agents mainly produced pores larger than 10 microm, different from the hydration reaction of cement that produced pores smaller than 1 microm mostly. To meet the requirements of the lightweight materials characteristics and the compressive strength, the amount of SSA could be up to 60-80% of the total solids. An adequate amount of aluminium powder is 0.5-0.9% of the total solids. Increasing the fineness of the mixed scrap metal waste powder could effectively reduce the amount required and improve the foaming ratio.
Effect of vermiculite addition on compost produced from Korean food wastes.	To evaluate the effect of vermiculite addition on composting food wastes from Korean households, food wastes were composted in three small bins to which different additives were added. The following three bins were employed: in Case I, only recycled compost was composted; in Case II, food wastes with recycled compost; and in Case III, food wastes with recycled compost and vermiculite. In the experiment performed for 30 days, it was confirmed that the supplementary addition of vermiculite to the composting mixture did not significantly improve the weight loss rate and the decomposition rate of food wastes. Due to dilution through the use of inorganic vermiculite, the vermiculite addition reduced the organic matter concentration of the composting mixtures. Vermiculite addition did not raise the pH value. Weight losses of roughly 70% were observed based on calculating moisture loss as well as dry food waste loss and not considering additives, while dry food waste loss was 29.4% and 35.8% with and without the addition of vermiculite, respectively. For these experiments, the major portion of the weight loss was the loss of water. The results indicate a need to differentiate between weight loss percentages and decomposition percentages, and a need to indicate if either of these percentages includes or excludes the mass of additives.
Degradation of methylparathion in aqueous solution by electrochemical oxidation.	The electrochemical degradation of methylparathion has been investigated by using Ti/Pt as anode, Stainless Steel 304 as cathode, and sodium chloride as electrolyte. The pesticide is rapidly degraded, but full mineralization is not observed. Degradation products have been monitored through gas chromatography and mass spectrometry, and the overall degradation process has been monitored through dissolved and particulate organic carbon, sulfur, and phosphorus measurements. Several intermediates have been identified, and oxalic, formic, and acetic acids as well as tetraphosphorus trisulfide have been recognized as final products of the degradation process. A proposed mechanism of the process is presented.
Ultrasonic sludge treatment for enhanced anaerobic digestion.	Ultrasound is the term used to describe sound energy at frequencies above 20 kHz. High-powered ultrasound can be applied to a waste stream via purpose-designed tools in order to induce cavitation. This effect results in the rupture of cellular material and reduction of particle size in the waste stream, making the cells more amenable to downstream processing. sonix is a new technology utilising high-powered, concentrated ultrasound for conditioning sludges prior to further treatment. This paper presents recent results from a number of demonstration and full-scale plants treating thickened waste activated sludge (TWAS) prior to anaerobic digestion, therefore enhancing the process. The present studies have proved that the use of ultrasound to enhance anaerobic digestion can be achieved at full scale and effectively result in the TWAS (typically difficult to digest) behaving, after sonication, as if it were a "primary" sludge. The technology presents benefits in terms of increased biogas production, better solids reduction, improved dewatering characteristics of the digested sludge mixture and relatively short payback periods of two years or less subject to the site conditions and practices applicable at that time.
Effect of the application of acid treated biosolids on marigold (Tagetes erecta) development.	The use of biosolids for land restoration and crop production is a potential solution to improve food production worldwide. However, the microbial content usually restricts its application in crops that are consumed uncooked. An alternative practice is their use in floriculture. In this study, the effects of acid treated sludge on the development of marigold (Tagetes erecta) plants were evaluated under green house conditions. Biosolids were applied at the agronomic rate (AR) based on nitrogen requirements of the marigold. In addition, higher rates (10 and 20xAR) were applied to study their effect on the plants. Biosolids were mixed with tepetate (hard volcanic indurate layers). Due to its origin, tepetate lacks nutrients and organic matter to adequately support plant development. The best treatment for marigold development was 10xAR, as plants reached an average height of 107 cm, with a growing speed of 1.01 cm/d, which is 20 times more than the control. Plants that received no biosolids produced 0.25 buds and 0.5 flowers per plant. In contrast, AR and 10xAR showed a production that ranged from 2 to 29 buds/plant and 4 to 15 flowers/plant, respectively. These results indicate the viability of reusing acid treated biosolids to improve marigold development.
Co-conditioning and dewatering of alum sludge and waste activated sludge.	Co-conditioning and dewatering behaviors of alum sludge and waste activated sludge were investigated. Two different sludges were mixed at various ratios (2:1; 1:1; 1:2; 1:4) for study. Capillary suction time (CST) and specific resistance to filtration (SRF) were utilized to assess sludge dewaterability. Relatively speaking, waste activated sludge, though of higher solid content, was more difficult to be dewatered than alum sludge. It was found that sludge dewaterability and settlability became better with increasing fraction of alum sludge in the mixed sludge. Dosage required of the cationic polyelectrolyte (KP-201C) for dewatering was reduced as well. It is proposed that alum sludge acts as skeleton builder in the mixed sludge, and renders the mixed sludge more incompressible which is beneficial for sludge dewatering. Implications of the results of the study to the sludge management plan for Taipei City that generates both alum sludge and waste activated sludge at significant amount are also discussed. The current sludge treatment and disposal plan in Metropolitan Taipei could be made more cost-effective.
Dynamic of lead speciation in sewage sludge composting.	A large-scale sewage sludge composting experiment was conducted to develop an understanding of changes that occur to Pb chemical speciation, distribution and bio-availability during the course of composting. The four-stage Tessier sequential extraction method was employed to investigate the dynamics of heavy metal Pb speciation (exchangeable, bound to carbonates, bound to Fe-Mn oxides, bound to organic matter and sulphides, residual) during the course of sewage sludge composting. The concentrations of the total Pb and the five Pb fractions concentrations were increased during the whole stage of compost. However, the percentages of Pb distribution with respect to total Pb were changed in the following manner: exchangeable, bound to Fe-Mn oxides and bound to carbonates Pb with respect to total Pb were increased, while the percentages of bound to organic matter and sulphides, and residual Pb with respect to total Pb were decreased during composting. The data showed that the quantity of Pb in the less toxic portion, such as consisting of organic matter and sulphides bound and residual Pb, was increased, and that the contamination and bio-availability of heavy metal Pb in sewage sludge was reduced during the composting process.
A comparison of ultrasound treatment on primary and secondary sludges.	Ultrasound treatment of primary and secondary sludges was conducted to improve the qualities of sludges for the anaerobic digestion. The impacts of different sonication times, sonication densities and solids concentrations on ultrasonication efficiency were examined. The experimental results indicated that the significant reduction in particle size and increase in soluble organics could be achieved, implying that ultrasonication could offer a feasible treatment method to efficiently disintegrate sludge. The greater decrease in particle size and increase in soluble organics of sludge indicated that the secondary sludge has a more remarkable improvement after sonication over the primary sludge. With respects to the extent of disintegration and energy consumption, higher sonication density performed more effectively in terms of specific energy. There exists an optimal solids concentration range for both the sludges for optimum sonication. Within the optimal solids concentration range, efficient sonication can be effected and sludge would be disintegrated efficiently. The ultrasound would be attenuated by scattering and absorption if the solids concentration exceeds the optimal range. It appeared from the study that the mechanical shear forces caused by ultrasonic cavitation could be a key factor for sludge disintegration and collapse of cavitation bubbles could significantly alter the sludge characteristics.
Acidic and hydrogen peroxide treatment of polyaluminum chloride (PACL) sludge from water treatment.	The water treatment sludge including coagulants cannot be easily removed by conventional dewatering methods. The possibility of hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) oxidation as a pretreatment to enhance the dewaterability of polyaluminum chloride (PACl) sludge from water works was investigated. H2O2 treatment alone was not effective but H2O2 treatment under acidic condition significantly reduced both the cake water content and specific resistance to filtration (SRF), indicating the enhancement of dewaterability and filterability. The filterability after acid/H2O2 treatment was comparable to polymer conditioning and even more dewatered cake than polymer conditioning was produced. By H202 combined with sulfuric acid (H2SO4), leached iron caused Fenton's reaction, which showed a potential to significantly reduce the amount of solids mass and to produce more compact cake with higher filterability.
Anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste using temperature-phased anaerobic digestion process.	This study was performed to overcome the low efficiency of anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge and food waste by combining temperature-phased digestion, sequencing batch operation, and co-digestion technology. It was demonstrated that the temperature-phased anaerobic sequencing batch reactor (TPASBR) system for the co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste resulted in enhanced volatile solids (VS) reduction and methane production rate. At the organic loading rate (OLR) of 2.7 g VS/l/d, the TPASBR system showed the higher VS reduction (61.3%), CH4 yield (0.28 l/g VS(added)) and CH4 production rate (0.41 l CH4/l/d) than those (0.29 l CH4/l/d) of the mesophilic two-stage ASBR (MTSASBR). In the specific methanogenic activity (SMA) tests on thermophilic biomass of the TPASBR system, the average SMA of acetate (93 ml CH4/gVSS/d) was much higher than those of propionate (46 ml CH4/g VSS/d) and butyrate (76 ml CH4/g VSS/d). Also, higher specific hydrolytic activity (SHA, 217 mg COD/g VSS/d) of the biomass supported fast hydrolysis under thermophilic conditions. The track study revealed that the most active period of the 24 h cycle was between 6 and 12 h. The enhanced performance of the TPASBR system could be attributed to longer solids retention time, fast hydrolysis, higher CH4 conversion rate, and balanced nutrient condition of co-substrate. It was verified that this combination could be a promising and practical alternative for the simultaneous recycling of two types of organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) with high stability.
Reactivation and/or growth of fecal coliform bacteria during centrifugal dewatering of anaerobically digested biosolids.	Fecal coliform bacteria are used as indicator organisms for the presence of pathogens. In sludges, it has often been assumed that the counts of fecal coliforms after digestion (where the sludges may also be called biosolids) are representative of the counts when the sludge is disposed or recycled, such as by land application. The possibility has been raised, however, that dewatering processes can lead to increased counts of fecal coliforms and, by inference, human pathogens. This paper presents data from previous studies of this possibility; the results were inconsistent but showed observable increases in fecal coliforms at one treatment plant. Additional studies were then performed at another treatment facility, which showed statistically significant increases in fecal coliform counts after dewatering and two days of aging. The increases exceeded two orders of magnitude and included two centrifuge types and two biosolids types. Artifacts of media type and enumeration method have been excluded, and shearing of the material by commercial blender did not produce the same effects.
Minimization of sludge production and stable operational condition of a submerged membrane activated sludge process.	Modification of conventional activated sludge process by adding microfiltration type hollow fiber membrane module offers various advantages. The membrane module is immersed directly in the bioreactor to separate the treated water from the sludge and the modified process is called submerged membrane activated sludge process (SMASP). Bench scale SMASP units were operated at constant flux to study the possibility of minimizing the excess sludge production and stable operation at different SRT and BOD loading. The long SRT developed high stabilized MLSS concentration in the bioreactor and decreased the sludge loading rate [kg-BOD/kg-MLSS-d]. In SMASP, very low sludge yield coefficients (0.04-0.09 kg-MLSS/kg-BOD) were obtained at long SRT (500 d) and small BOD loading (< or =0.5 kg/(m3 x d)) as compared to conventional activated sludge process and these coefficients showed considerable minimization in excess activated sludge production. At the same operation conditions, suction pressure was also maintained low (<25 kPa), and then SMASP was operated stably for long time (approximately 200 d).
An innovative sludge management system based on separation of primary and secondary sludge treatment.	An innovative sludge management system based on separation of treatment and disposal of primary and secondary sludge is discussed with reference to a sewage treatment plant of 500,000 equivalent person capacity. Secondary sludge, if treated separately from primary sludge, can be recovered in agriculture considering its relatively high content of nitrogen and phosphorus and negligible presence of pathogens and micropollutants. One typical outlet for primary sludge is still incineration which can be optimised by rendering the process auto thermal and significantly reducing the size of the incineration plant units (dryer, fluidised bed furnace, boiler and units for exhaust gas treatment) in comparison with those required for mixed sludge incineration. Biogas produced in anaerobic digestion is totally available for energy conversion when sludge treatment separation is performed, while in the other case a large proportion may be used as fuel in incineration, thus reducing the net electric energy conversion from 0.85-0.9 to 0.35-0.4 MW for the plant considered.
Removal of dissolved copper(II) and zinc(II) by aerobic granular sludge.	This study investigated the adsorption kinetics of dissolved copper(II) and zinc(II) by aerobic granular sludge. Two series of batch experiments were conducted at different initial copper(II), zinc(II) concentrations (Co) and initial granule concentrations (Xo). Results showed that the biosorption kinetics of individual copper(II) and zinc(II) by aerobic granules were closely related to Co and Xo. The maximum biosorption capacity of individual copper(II) and zinc(II) by aerobic granules was 246.1 mg g(-1) and 180 mg g(-1), respectively. In order to theoretically interpret the results obtained, two kinetic models previously developed for biosorption were employed and compared in this study. It was found that the model proposed by Liu et al. (2003) could fit the experimental data very well, but the second-order model failed to fit the data in some cases. It appears that aerobic granules would be potential biosorbent with high efficiency for the removal of dissolved copper(II) and zinc(II) from wastewater.
Direct generation of electricity from sludges and other liquid wastes.	Recently it has been shown that electrical energy can be harvested from marine sediments, simply by connection of an electrode (anode) in anaerobic marine sediments to an electrode in the aerobic zone above the sediments. We have now shown that similar applications are available in sludge treatment. Using a reactor with graphite foil electrodes in an aerated aerobic and anaerobic sludge zone, electrical current was generated, and enhanced when an additional organic substrate (acetate) was added. Electron microscopy, x-ray diffraction, and PCR examination of the anode surface showed no surface colonization and no increase in Geobacter relative to a control, indicating that microbial use of the anode as an electron acceptor wa indirect through the use of redox mediators. Given the demonstration of electricity generation from sludge, the potential for similar applications, using other organic waste sources, is evaluated.
Processing dewatered sewage sludge using electrokinetic technology.	High content of heavy metals and presence of pathogens in the dewatered sewage sludge have been the main obstacles for land application of sewage sludge-made fertilizer. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of the innovative electrokinetic (EK) technology on removal of heavy metals from sewage sludge, on the reduction of pathogens, and on sludge chemical characteristics. The results showed that the removal efficiencies for Zn, Cu, Ni, Cr, As and Pb were 94.9%, 95.4%, 89.7%, 67.8%, 31.2% and 18.7%, respectively. Acidification pretreatment of the dewatered sludge for 29 h decreased the content of heterotrophic bacteria from 1.5 x 10(8) c.f.u./g of wet sludge to 1.1 x 10(4) c.f.u./g of wet sludge. Although the initial content of total coliforms and fecal coliforms in sewage sludge were 5.8 x 10(5) c.f.u./g of wet sludge and 4.0 x 10(5) c.f.u./g of wet sludge, respectively, no viable cells were detected. Minor losses of K and N were detected, but the loss of P was found to be significant in EK treated sewage sludge. The treated sludge was technically considered as very stable based on the carbon dioxide evolution rate.
Recovery of energy from sludge--comparison of the various options.	This paper gives a general discussion of existing sludge treatment processes and of innovative treatment options, especially focused on the valuable use of organic carbon compounds as an energy source. Attention is paid both to high and to low temperature processes and to combinations of these processes. Based on an assessment and comparison the most beneficial and sustainable options are identified and a rough indication is given of the possibilities for improvement and future developments.
Production of hydrogen and methane from wastewater sludge using anaerobic fermentation.	The hydrogen and methane were produced from wastewater sludge using a Clostridium strain. The original sludge and the pre-treated (acidified, sterilized, freeze/thawed, and sonicated) sludges were tested. Some pre-treatment could enhance hydrogen yield, and the other tests could enhance methane yield. Hydrogen yield followed freeze/thawed>acidified>sterilized>original sludge>sonicated; while methane yield followed sonicated>freeze/thawed>sterilized>acidified>original sludge. The production and consumption of acetate correlated closely with the trends in both yields.
Development of sludge based stable aqueous Bacillus thuringiensis formulations.	This study focuses on development of aqueous flowable (suspension) formulations for Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) based biopesticides from wastewater sludge. Different inerts like sorbitol, sodium monophosphate, sodium metabisulphite, sorbic acid, propionic acid, Tween-80, Triton X-100 and glycerol were tested for formulations. Five different formulations for non-hydrolyzed (NH) secondary sludges were tried and the best combination selected on the basis of various physical parameters like viscosity, particle size, suspendibility, entomotoxicity, and microbiological purity tests. F5 formulations (for secondary sludge) comprising sorbitol, sodium monophosphate and sodium metabisulphite gave better physical and biological characteristics with a small effect on entomotoxicity and spore concentration after 120 days at pH 6, 6.5 and temperatures 40 and 50 degrees C and viscosity change at 40 and 50 degrees C. The formulations were more stable at pH 4.0 to 5.0 and temperatures 4 to 30 degrees C whereas at pH 6.0 and 6.5 and temperatures 40 and 50 degrees C, there was degeneration of the product. Lower proteolytic activity and physical factors like ionic strength and surface group changes at pH 6 and 6.5 were responsible for the instability of the formulation.
Removal of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) from sewage sludge by anaerobic degradation.	Due to the hydrophobic nature of the polyaromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) they are mostly bound to the sludge and escape aerobic treatment in a wastewater treatment plant. They therefore proceed directly to the anaerobic post treatment, terminate in the sludge, and can be released to the environment if land spreading is used. PAH degradation in anaerobic methanogenic systems has only recently been shown to occur. In this study we have assessed several factors of anaerobic PAH degradation by evaluating thermodynamic feasibility of degradation, assessing degradation at different temperatures, and investigating the enriched cultures using fluorescent in-situ hybridization (FISH). Thermodynamic calculations indicated that PAH degradation was possible under methanogenic conditions, in the presence of hydrogen utilizing methanogens. Removal of naphthalene and 1-methyl naphthalene depended both on temperature and the initial inoculum. Inocula sourced from contaminated land sites were the most effective. The enrichments were all a mixture of Bacteria, and Archaea, and the Archaea were generally identified as Methanobacteriales, using an order-specific probe. The bacteria were not specifically identified. The results indicate a syntrophic culture, with the bacteria oxidizing the naphthalene, and the Archaea converting the hydrogen produced by oxidation, to methane.
Municipal sludge management and disposal in South Korea: status and a new sustainable approach.	Based on figures from 2002, 5216 ton/d of the municipal sludge is produced from 184 large municipal wastewater treatment plants in 111 cities with total treatment capacity of 19,229,745 m3/d. Even though the large amount of sludge disposal has depended greatly on ocean disposal and landfills until recently, the fraction of sludge reuse has gradually increased from 2.7% to 7%, since 1991. Due to a need of resources recovery from the sludge, high cost requirement of incineration and legislative regulation, recent new research is mainly focused on resources recovery and its reuse from the municipal sludge, such as high performance acid fermenter with pathogen reduction, crystallization (struvite and hydroxyapatite) using waste lime, cofermentation of municipal sludge with food waste, aerobic composting with P crystallization, vermistabilization, lime treatment, etc. Current research and practical activities with some efforts for the new technical development as well as environmental law and regulation are reviewed.
Application of nonionic surfactant-enhanced in situ flushing to a diesel contaminated site.	Surfactant-enhanced in situ flushing was performed to remediate soil and groundwater at a diesel contaminated area, which had been used as a military vehicle repair area in Korea for 45 years. A pilot-scale site (4 m x 4 m x 4 m) was selected within the contaminated area for in situ flushing; the selected site was composed of heterogeneous sandy and silt-sandy soils, with an average hydraulic conductivity (K) of 2.0 x 10(-4)cm/s. Two percent of sorbitan monooleate (POE 20) was mixed with uncontaminated groundwater and five pore volumes of solution (three pore volumes of surfactant solution and two pore volumes of groundwater alone) were flushed to remove diesel from the site. The effluent TPH (total petroleum hydrocarbon) concentration with surfactant solution flushing increased to 1761 mg/L, which was over 200 times higher than the average concentration with only groundwater flushing. A total of 48 kg of TPH (about 88% of the initial TPH) was removed from the pilot site with five pore volumes of 2% sorbitan monooleate solution flushing; this total was more than 75 times the amount that was removed when flushing with water alone (less than 640 g). All of the extracted solution was treated by means of a chemical treatment process, which included the use of a dissolved air flotation system to lower the concentration of solution below 5mg/L and the treated solution was then disposed of in a nearby sewage drain.
Anaerobic microbial mobilization and biotransformation of arsenate adsorbed onto activated alumina.	Due to the enactment of a stricter drinking water standard for arsenic in the United States, larger quantities of arsenic will be treated resulting in larger volumes of treatment residuals. The current United States Environmental Protection Agency recommendation is to dispose spent adsorbent residuals from arsenic treatment into non-hazardous municipal solid waste (MSW) landfills. The potential of microorganisms to alter the speciation affecting the mobility of arsenic in the disposal environment is therefore a concern. The purpose of this paper was to evaluate the potential of an anaerobic microbial consortium to biologically mobilize arsenate (As(V)) adsorbed onto activated alumina (AA), a common adsorbent used for treating arsenic in drinking water. Three anaerobic columns (0.27 l) packed with 100 g dry weight of AA containing 0.657 mg adsorbed As(V) (expressed as arsenic) per gram dry weight were continuously flushed with synthetic landfill leachate for 257 days. The fully biologically active column was inoculated with methanogenic anaerobic sludge (10 g volatile suspended solids l(-1) column) and was operated with a mixture of volatile fatty acids (VFA) in the feed (2.5 g chemical oxygen demand l(-1) feed). At the end of the experiment, 37% of the arsenic was removed from the column, of which 48% was accounted for by arsenical species identified in the column effluent. The most important form of arsenic eluted was arsenite (As(III)), accounting for nearly all of the identified arsenic in periods of high mobilization. Additionally, two methylated metabolites, methylarsonic acid and dimethylarsinic acid were observed. Mobilization of arsenic is attributed to the biological reduction of As(V) to As(III) since literature data indicates that As(III) is more weakly adsorbed to AA compared to As(V). Batch and continuous assays confirmed that VFA, present in landfill leachates, served as an electron donating substrate supporting enhanced rates of As(V) reduction to As(III). Two control columns, lacking inoculum and/or VFA in the feed displayed low mobilization of arsenic compared to the fully biologically active column. Therefore, leachates generated in MSW landfills could potentially result in the biologically catalyzed mobilization of arsenic from As(V)-laden drinking water residuals.
Biofibers from agricultural byproducts for industrial applications.	Lignocellulosic agricultural byproducts are a copious and cheap source for cellulose fibers. Agro-based biofibers have the composition, properties and structure that make them suitable for uses such as composite, textile, pulp and paper manufacture. In addition, biofibers can also be used to produce fuel, chemicals, enzymes and food. Byproducts produced from the cultivation of corn, wheat, rice, sorghum, barley, sugarcane, pineapple, banana and coconut are the major sources of agro-based biofibers. This review analyses the production processes, structure, properties and suitability of these biofibers for various industrial applications.
Influence of environmental conditions on methanogenic compositions in anaerobic biogas reactors.	The influence of environmental parameters on the diversity of methanogenic communities in 15 full-scale biogas plants operating under different conditions with either manure or sludge as feedstock was studied. Fluorescence in situ hybridization was used to identify dominant methanogenic members of the Archaea in the reactor samples; enriched and pure cultures were used to support the in situ identification. Dominance could be identified by a positive response by more than 90% of the total members of the Archaea to a specific group- or order-level probe. There was a clear dichotomy between the manure digesters and the sludge digesters. The manure digesters contained high levels of ammonia and of volatile fatty acids (VFA) and were dominated by members of the Methanosarcinaceae, while the sludge digesters contained low levels of ammonia and of VFA and were dominated by members of the Methanosaetaceae. The methanogenic diversity was greater in reactors operating under mesophilic temperatures. The impact of the original inoculum used for the reactor start-up was also investigated by assessment of the present population in the reactor. The inoculum population appeared to have no influence on the eventual population.
Evaluation of wetland and tertiary wastewater treatments for estrogenicity using in vivo and in vitro assays.	The effects of wetland wastewater treatment on estrogenic activity and estrogenic activity of water after tertiary treatment were evaluated using in vivo (rainbow trout vitellogenin [VTG] expression) and in vitro (yeast estrogen screening) assays. Juvenile rainbow trout exposed to tertiary-treated wastewater from the Green Acres Treatment Plant in Orange County Water District had increased plasma VTG levels compared with control fish. When trout were exposed to wastewater-dominated water before it entered into Prado Wetland (Riverside County, CA), VTG concentrations were increased above those of controls and were not significantly different from fish exposed to water exiting the wetland. VTG E2-equivalent concentrations (EEQs) of the water samples from the Green Acres Plant were 16.92 +/- 16.49 ng/L. Activity of water entering Prado Wetland was 29.80 +/- 28.41 ng/L EEQ, and water exiting was 24.34 +/- 23.17 ng/L EEQ. In vitro assays estimated that estrogenic activity of water from the Green Acres Plant was <1 ng/L EEQ, whereas water entering and exiting Prado Wetland had yeast estrogen screening EEQs of 2.57 and <1 ng/L, respectively. Our results suggest that environmental estrogens that are not potent estrogen-receptor ligands exist in wastewaters from the Green Acres Plant as well as water entering and exiting Prado Wetland. Wetland treatment did not remove environmental estrogens in the water. Our results also suggest that in vitro assays may underestimate estrogenic activity of sampled water.
A study for the thermal treatment of dehydrated sewage sludge with gas-agitated double screw type dryer.	A specially designed dryer has been developed for the thermal treatment of dehydrated, highly viscous sewage sludge with moisture content more than 80 wt.% by an gas-agitated, double-screw type dryer system. The treatment capacity of sludge dryer was about 100 kg/h. It consists of burner, feeding hopper, hot gas supplying ducts with double screw conveyor, damper and outlets of drying gas and dried material. The sewage sludge was transported by the revolution of the cylinder conveyor together with the tumbling and mixing action of the screw and lifters. The heating of the sludge was made efficient by the combination action of conduction and convection modes together with the gas-agitation process. The conduction occurred across the surface of the combustor cylinder, the convection was made by the flue gas interaction over the sludge and the agitation action through holes of conveyor cylinder into the bottom of the sludge. The number and location of gas-agitation holes and thereby the fraction of drying gas into the agitation holes were evaluated by numerical calculation of turbulent reacting flow. To evaluate the performance of the dryer developed in this study, a series of parametric experiments were performed in terms of important variables. In general drying process occurred successfully even for the highly agglomerating municipal sewage sludge through the first lumped plastic phase to a fine granulate state when the heat and mass balance was matched by adjusting rpm of the conveyor, burner capacity, and the fraction of gas-agitation. Further the avoidance of initial sludge agglomeration was considered to be important by the combination action of screw and lifter. The weight of the sludge was reduced approximately by 60% and therefore the volume of sludge was decreased to approximately 75% of initial volume with the water content of 10-20%. Energy efficiency of dryer was evaluated in the range of 70-75% at the sludge feed rate, 100 kg/h. The results obtained show the development of a robust, drying action applicable to highly viscous and high moisture content sewage sludge by the novel design of conveyor system and gas-agitation process developed in this study.
Upscaling of hydraulic conductivity and telescopic mesh refinement.	Performance assessments of repositories for the underground disposal of nuclear fuel and waste include models of ground water flow and transport in the host rocks. Estimates of hydraulic conductivity, K, based on field measurements may require adjustment (upscaling) for use in numerical models, but the choice of upscaling approach can be complicated by the use of nested modeling, large-scale fracture zones, and a high degree of heterogeneity. Four approaches to upscaling K are examined using a reference case based on exhaustive site data and an application of nested modeling to evaluate performance assessment of a waste repository. The upscaling approaches are evaluated for their effects on the flow balance between nested modeling domains and on simple measures of repository performance. Of the upscaling approaches examined in this study, the greatest consistency of boundary flows was achieved using the observed scale dependence for the rock domains, measured values from the large-scale interference test for the conductor domain, and a semivariogram regularization based on the Moye model for packer test interpretation. Making the assumption that large fracture zones are two-dimensional media results in the greatest changes to the median of travel time and improves the flow balance between the nested models. The uncertainty of upscaling methods apparently has a small impact on median performance measures, but a significant impact on the variances and earliest arrival times.
Human pharmaceuticals, hormones, and personal care product ingredients in runoff from agricultural fields irrigated with treated wastewater.	Irrigation of crops with treated wastewater has the potential to introduce effluent-derived organic microcontaminants into surface waters through agricultural runoff. To determine whether compounds indicative of the presence of treated effluent in irrigation water could be identified in agricultural runoff, surface runoff samples collected from effluent-irrigated and rain-fed cultivated fields were analyzed for a broad spectrum of organic compounds. A variety of compounds was identified that appeared to be associated with irrigation with treated wastewater. These compounds included human pharmaceuticals (e.g., carbamazepine, gemfibrozil, carisoprodol), personal care product ingredients (e.g., insect repellent, polycyclic musks), and alkyl phosphate flame retardant chemicals. Most of these compounds appear not to have been previously reported in agricultural runoff. These compounds were present at concentrations below the few published aquatic toxicology data available; however, their potential to elicit more subtle effects in aquatic organisms cannot be excluded. None of these compounds were detected by broad-spectrum analysis in samples from the same fields during runoff-producing rain events.
Heavy metals mobility in harbour contaminated sediments: the case of Port-en-Bessin.	Metallic contaminants associated with sediments showed various behaviours depending on physicochemical conditions. A contaminated sediment core from a harbour in the Bay of Seine was sampled to derive information about metal solubilization from anoxic sediment. In these anaerobic surroundings, physicochemical processes depended on the organic matter cycle, on vertical variation of redox conditions and on precipitation conditions of iron and manganese. In the studied core, anoxic conditions were developed at -15 cm depth. A three-step sequential extraction procedure, modified from the BCR method (now the SM&T), was applied to the anoxic sediment in order to evaluate the potential mobility of fixed metals. Zinc was the most labile metal, recovered in the first extraction stages, and was associated with the non-residual fraction of sediment. Lead was the least labile metal, with up to 70% associated with the residual fraction of the sediment. Copper was associated with organic matter, and its mobility was controlled by the concentration and degradation of the organic fraction. Discharge of organic-rich dredged sediments at sea results in degradation of contained organic matter and may affect the environmental impact of these metals significantly. These results therefore help to improve the waste management of such contaminated sediments.
Prediction of temperature and thermal inertia effect in the maturation stage and stockpiling of a large composting mass.	A macroscopic non-steady state energy balance was developed and solved for a composting pile of source-selected organic fraction of municipal solid waste during the maturation stage (13,500 kg of compost). Simulated temperature profiles correlated well with temperature experimental data (ranging from 50 to 70 degrees C) obtained during the maturation process for more than 50 days at full scale. Thermal inertia effect usually found in composting plants and associated to the stockpiling of large composting masses could be predicted by means of this simplified energy balance, which takes into account terms of convective, conductive and radiation heat dissipation. Heat losses in a large composting mass are not significant due to the similar temperatures found at the surroundings and at the surface of the pile (ranging from 15 to 40 degrees C). In contrast, thermophilic temperature in the core of the pile was maintained during the whole maturation process. Heat generation was estimated with the static respiration index, a parameter that is typically used to monitor the biological activity and stability of composting processes. In this study, the static respiration index is presented as a parameter to estimate the metabolic heat that can be generated according to the biodegradable organic matter content of a compost sample, which can be useful in predicting the temperature of the composting process.
Development of sludge filterability test to assess the solids removal potential of a sludge bed.	A qualitative sludge characterisation technique called "sludge filterability technique" has been developed. This technique enables the determination of the sludge potential for the physical removal of solids, weighing the effect of different process parameters on solids removal and identifying the mechanisms of solids removal in an upflow anaerobic sludge bed system. In this paper guidelines for conducting the test are given and a "standardised" set-up is presented. The experimental set-up and protocol are simple and the results can be obtained in a period as short as a few hours. A sludge sample is added to an upflow reactor incubated at 4 degrees C, to limit gas production, washed with an anaerobically pre-treated and suspended solids free wastewater to remove solids washed out from the sludge, and then fed with a model substrate, prepared from fish meal with a standard procedure. Several experimental runs were conducted to validate and optimise the technique. The results showed that the technique is reliable, workable and reproducible.
Sorption kinetics and leachability of heavy metal from the contaminated soil amended with immobilizing agent (humus soil and hydroxyapatite).	Release of heavy metals onto the soil as a result of agricultural and industrial activities may pose a serious threat to the environment. This study investigated the kinetics of sorption of heavy metals on the non-humus soil amended with (1:3) humus soil and 1% hydroxyapatite used for in situ immobilization and leachability of heavy metals from these soils. For this, a batch equilibrium experiment was performed to evaluate metal sorption in the presence of 0.05 M KNO(3) background electrolyte solutions. The Langmuir isotherms applied for sorption studies showed that the amount of metal sorbed on the amended soil decreased in the order of Pb(2+)>Zn(2+)>Cd(2+). The data suggested the possibility of immobilization of Pb due to sorption process and immobilization of Zn and Cd by other processes like co-precipitation and ion exchange. The sorption kinetics data showed the pseudo-second-order reaction kinetics rather than pseudo-first-order kinetics. Leachability study was performed at various pHs (ranging from 3 to 10). Leachability rate was slowest for the Pb(2+) followed by Zn(2+) and Cd(2+). Out of the metal adsorbed on the soil only 6.1-21.6% of Pb, 7.3-39% of Zn and 9.3-44.3% of Cd leached out from the amended soil.
Relating landscape characteristics to non-point source pollution in mine waste-located watersheds using geospatial techniques.	Landscape characteristics of a watershed are important variables that influence surface water quality. Understanding the relationship between these variables and surface water quality is critical in predicting pollution potential and developing watershed management practices to eliminate or reduce pollution risk. To understand the impacts of landscape characteristics on water quality in mine waste-located watersheds, we conducted a case study in the Tri-State Mining District which is located in the conjunction of three states (Missouri, Kansas and Oklahoma). Severe heavy metal pollution exists in that area resulting from historical mining activities. We characterized land use/land cover over the last three decades by classifying historical multi-temporal Landsat imagery. Landscape metrics such as proportion, edge density and contagion were calculated based on the classified imagery. In-stream water quality data over three decades were collected, including lead, zinc, iron, cadmium, aluminum and conductivity which were used as key water quality indicators. Statistical analyses were performed to quantify the relationship between landscape metrics and surface water quality. Results showed that landscape characteristics in mine waste-located watersheds could account for as much as 77% of the variation of water quality indicators. A single landscape metric alone, such as proportion of mine waste area, could be used to predict surface water quality; but its predicting power is limited, usually accounting for less than 60% of the variance of water quality indicators.
Effect of grinding and heating on Ni2+ uptake properties of waste paper sludge.	Uptake properties of Ni2+ were examined for unmilled and milled paper sludge calcined at various temperatures to develop a new usage of waste paper sludge. Since paper sludge mainly consists of cellulose ([C6H(10)O5]n) fibers, calcite (CaCO3), kaolinite (Al2Si2O5(OH)4) and talc (Mg3Si(4)O(10)(OH)2), amorphous and crystalline CaO(MgO)-Al(2)O(3)-SiO(2) compounds are formed by calcining paper sludge. Wet and dry milling treatments were performed to accelerate solid-state reaction to form the above mentioned target compounds. The crystalline phases originally present decompose at increasing calcining temperature (up to 800 degrees C) in the order cellulose <kaolinite <calcite <talc. An amorphous phase was formed in the samples below 800 degrees C and the temperatures changed depending on the milling conditions in the order dry milled <wet milled <unmilled. Gehlenite (Ca(2)Al(2)SiO(7)) and anorthite (CaAl(2)Si(2)O(8)) crystallized by calcining at 900 degrees C in all the samples, formed by solid-state reaction of kaolinite with calcite. The (29)Si and (27)Al MAS NMR spectra of the amorphous samples were similar to those of crystalline phases, suggesting that the local structure of the amorphous phase resembles the crystalline structures. Maximum Ni2+ uptake occurred in the dry-milled samples calcined at 600 degrees C, and wet-milled and unmilled samples calcined at 700 degrees C, respectively. The dry-milled and calcined at 600 degrees C sample showed the highest Ni2+ uptake (4.54 mmol/g) and an uptake rate of 3.5 micromol/(gmin).
Biotreatment of waste gas containing pyridine in a biofilter.	Industrial waste gas emissions containing pyridine are generated from pyridine manufacturing industries, and in industrial operations where pyridine is used as a solvent, as an intermediate for synthesis and as a catalyst for a variety of applications. Pyridine has unpleasant fishy odor with an odor index of 2390 and waste gaseous emissions containing pyridine require proper treatment prior to discharge. A biofilter, packed with compost and wood chips and inoculated with Pseudomonas pseudoalcaligenes-KPN for enrichment of pyridine-degrading microorganisms, was operated on a continuous feed basis for a period of more than 2 years. The results indicate that the biofilter medium with optimal moisture content of 68% and an effective bed retention time (EBRT) of 28.50s could degrade pyridine effectively (>99%) at a loading of 434 g pyridine m(-3)h(-1). The treated waste gas was also found to be free from pyridine odor.
Improving the quality of municipal organic waste compost.	The effects of different municipal organic waste (MOW) management practices (shredding, addition of carbon-rich materials and inoculation with earthworms) on organic matter stabilization and compost quality were studied. Four static piles were prepared with: (i) shredded MOW; (ii) shredded MOW+woodshavings; (iii) non-shredded MOW; and (iv) non-shredded MOW+woodshavings. After 50 days, a part of each pile was separated for vermistabilization, while the rest continued as traditional thermophilic composting piles. At different sampling dates, and in the finished products, the following parameters were measured: pH, electrical conductivity, carbon dioxide evolution, and concentrations of organic matter, total nitrogen, water-soluble carbon, nitrate nitrogen, ammonium nitrogen, and extractable phosphorus. Shredded treatments exhibited faster organic matter stabilization than non-shredded treatments, evidenced specially by earlier stabilization of carbon dioxide production and shorter thermophilic phases. Woodshavings addition greatly increased quality of final products in terms of organic matter concentration, and pH and electrical conductivity values, but decreased total nitrogen and available nutrient concentrations. Vermicomposting of previously composted material led to products richer in organic matter, total nitrogen, and available nutrient concentrations than composting only, probably due to the coupled effect of earthworm activity and a shorter thermophilic phase.
Solid olive waste in environmental cleanup: oil recovery and carbon production for water purification.	A potentially-economic three-fold strategy, to use solid olive wastes in water purification, is presented. Firstly, oil remaining in solid waste (higher than 5% of waste) was recovered by the Soxhlet extraction technique, which can be useful for the soap industry. Secondly, the remaining solid was processed to yield relatively high-surface area active carbon (AC). Thirdly, the resulting carbon was employed to reversibly adsorb chromate ions from water, aiming to establish a water purification process with reusable AC. The technique used here enabled oil recovery together with the production of a clean solid, suitable for making AC. This process also has the advantage of low production cost.
Thermophilic anaerobic digestion of source-sorted organic fraction of household municipal solid waste: start-up procedure for continuously stirred tank reactor.	Two feeding strategies for start-up of continuously stirred tank reactors (CSTR) treating source-sorted organic fraction of household municipal solid waste (SS-OFMSW) at 55 degrees C were evaluated. Two reactors were started up separately with a limited amount of initial inoculum (i.e. 10% of the final volume of 3.5l) and operated in a fed batch mode until the reactors were filled (30 days). A reference reactor was filled up with 3.5l of inoculum and fed at a constant rate (11.4 g volatile solids (VS)/d). Loading at progressively increasing rate (from 1.7 to 15 gVS/d), as calculated based on an activated biomass concept, showed superior process performance compared to a fixed feed rate (5.7 gVS/d). Methane yield of 0.32 m(3)/kg VS was produced during the start-up in reactor filled at progressively increasing rate and was comparable to the reference reactor. On the contrary, significant inhibition due to volatile fatty acid (VFA) build-up, mainly due to butyrate, was noticed in the reactor filled at constant rate. Thus, low initial and progressive increasing inoculum loading rate could be used as a strategy for a successful start-up of CSTR treating SS-OFMSW as it allowed a gradual acclimation of the biomass. Lab-scale results were further reaffirmed from the start-up of a full-scale plant (7000 m(3) total capacity) which was supplied with inoculum corresponding to approx. 16% of final volume and operated in a fed batch mode until the reactors were filled (58 days). Stable biogas production with low VFA (<3 g/L; based on titration method) were noticed during the start-up period when fed at progressively increasing rate. Thus, a controlled and reliable start-up procedure was found essential, which could allow rapid process stabilization and time to focus on other technical aspects of plant operation. In addition, the influence of substrate to inoculum amount (1.5-30% TS) and temperature (5-65 degrees C) on anaerobic degradation and methane production of SS-OFMSW was investigated in batch assays as a protocol for start-up procedure.
Effect of horticultural waste composting on infected plant residues with pathogenic bacteria and fungi: integrated and localized sanitation.	The aim of this work was to study the effect of composting on the viability of plant pathogenic fungi and bacteria. The research consisted of pilot-scale composting of horticultural waste in compost windrows. Studies were carried out on vegetable residues infected with plant pathogenic microorganisms included by either integrated or localized infection. In the first case, the plant pathogen viability was investigated when infected material was mixed throughout compost, while the localized infection was used to study the effect of the composting process on plant waste spot-inoculated with pathogenic microorganisms. Results for localized sanitation showed the total elimination of all tested phytopathogens between 48 and 120 h after composting began. In this case significant differences were observed in relation to 9 different zones in the pile. The disappearance of these microorganisms was similar when all plant waste included in the windrow was infected (integrated infection). Additionally, the results obtained confirmed that the bacteria showed a greater capacity to persist during composting than the fungi. Composting is therefore considered a useful method for recycling horticultural waste and eliminating phytopathogenic bacteria and fungi that inhabit this kind of residue.
IFRP: a hybrid interval-parameter fuzzy robust programming approach for waste management planning under uncertainty.	In this study, an interval-parameter fuzzy-robust programming (IFRP) model is developed and applied to the planning of solid waste management systems under uncertainty. As an extension of the existing fuzzy-robust programming and interval-parameter linear programming methods, the IFRP can explicitly address system uncertainties with complex presentations. Parameters in the IFRP model can be represented as interval numbers and/or fuzzy membership functions, such that the uncertainties can be directly communicated into the optimization process and resulting solution. Furthermore, highly uncertain information for the lower and upper bounds of interval parameters that exist due to the complexity of the real world can be effectively handled through introducing the concept of fuzzy boundary interval. Consequently, robustness of the optimization process and solution can be enhanced. Results of the case study indicate that useful solutions for planning municipal solid waste management practices can be generated. They reflect a compromise between optimality and stability of the study system. Willingness to pay higher costs will guarantee the system stability; however, a desire to reduce the costs will run the risk of potential instability of the system. The results also suggest that the proposed hybrid methodology is applicable to practical problems that are associated with highly complex and uncertain information.
Confronting limitations: new solutions required for urban water management in Kunming City.	Despite continuous investment and various efforts to control pollution, urban water environments are worsening in large parts of the developing world. In order to reveal potential constraints and limitations of current practices of urban water management and to stimulate proactive intervention, we conducted a material flow analysis of the urban water system in Kunming City. The results demonstrate that the current efficiency of wastewater treatment is only around 25% and the emission of total phosphorous from the city into its receiving water, Dianchi Lake, is more than 25 times higher than its estimated tolerance. With regard to the crisis of water quantity and quality, the goal of a sustainable urban water environment cannot be attained with the current problem-solving approach in the region due to the technical limitations of the conventional urban drainage and treatment systems. A set of strategies is therefore proposed. The urban drainage system in Zurich is used as a reference for a potential best-available technology for conventional urban water management (BAT) scenario in terms of its low combined frequency of sewer overflow.
Destruction of PCDD/Fs by SCR from flue gases of municipal waste incinerator and metal smelting plant.	Partitioning of PCDD/F congeners between vapor/solid phases and removal and destruction efficiencies achieved with selective catalytic reduction (SCR) system for PCDD/Fs at an existing municipal waste incinerator (MWI) and metal smelting plant (MSP) in Taiwan are evaluated via stack sampling and analysis. The MWI investigated is equipped with electrostatic precipitators (EP, operating temperature: 230 degrees C), wet scrubbers (WS, operating temperature: 70 degrees C) and SCR (operating temperature: 220 degrees C) as major air pollution control devices (APCDs). PCDD/F concentration measured at stack gas of the MWI investigated is 0.728 ng-TEQ/Nm(3). The removal efficiency of WS+SCR system for PCDD/Fs reaches 93% in the MWI investigated. The MSP investigated is equipped with EP (operating temperature: 240 degrees C) and SCR (operating temperature: 290 degrees C) as APCDs. The flue gas sampling results also indicate that PCDD/F concentration treated with SCR is 1.35 ng-TEQ/Nm(3). The SCR system adopted in MSP can remove 52.3% PCDD/Fs from flue gases (SCR operating temperature: 290 degrees C, Gas flow rate: 660 kN m(3)/h). In addition, the distributions of PCDD/F congeners observed in the flue gases of the MWI and MSP investigated are significantly different. This study also indicates that the PCDD/F congeners measured in the flue gases of those two facilities are mostly distributed in vapor phase prior to the SCR system and shift to solid phase (vapor-phase PCDD/Fs are effectively decomposed) after being treated with catalyst. Besides, the results also indicate that with SCR highly chlorinated PCDD/F congeners can be transformed to lowly chlorinated PCDD/F congeners probably by dechlorination, while the removal efficiencies of vapor-phase PCDD/Fs increase with increasing chlorination.
Investigation of a new approach to decompose two potent greenhouse gases: photoreduction of SF(6) and SF(5)CF(3) in the presence of acetone.	In this paper, we addressed the utilization of photochemical method as an innovative technology for the destruction and removal of two potent greenhouse gases, SF(6) and SF(5)CF(3). The destruction and removal efficiency (DRE) of the process was determined as a function of excitation wavelength, irradiation time, initial ratio of acetone to SF(5)X (X represented F or CF(3)), initial SF(5)X concentration, additive oxygen and water vapor concentration. A complete removal was achieved by a radiation period of 55min and 120min for SF(6)-CH(3)COCH(3) system and SF(5)CF(3)-CH(3)COCH(3) system respectively under 184.9nm irradiation. Extra addition of water vapor can enhance DRE by approximately 6% points in both systems. Further studies with GC/MS and FT-IR proved that no hazardous products such as S(2)F(10), SO(2)F(2), SOF(2), SOF(4) were generated in this process.
Bioavailability of benzo[a]pyrene during NAPL-enhanced biodegradation in soil and in liquid culture.	The high molecular weight polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbon (HMW PAH) benzo[a]pyrene is generally persistent in the environment and its persistence may be due to bioavailability limitations. However, the presence of degradation-capable microorganisms and a suitable cosubstrate are also necessary. This is especially the case for benzo[a]pyrene because it may only be degraded by fortuitous metabolism. Non-aqueous phase liquid (NAPL)-enhanced benzo[a]pyrene biodegradation and indicators of bioavailability were measured in soil and liquid culture. In soil, 14CO2 from 7-[14C]benzo[a]pyrene mineralisation and overall CO2 production were monitored for 83 d after treatment with different types of NAPLs in biometer flasks. Monitoring was followed by soil extraction and measurement of 14C residues and of the remaining NAPL by gravimetry. In liquid culture, 7-[14C]benzo[a]pyrene mineralisation was monitored after treatment with different NAPLs and followed by a radiocarbon mass balance of 14C residues. Results indicated that although benzo[a]pyrene may have been bioavailable in both media types, benzo[a]pyrene mineralisation only occurred when a suitable NAPL cosubstrate was present to facilitate biodegradation. In soil, rapid increases in the rate and onset of benzo[a]pyrene mineralisation were shown to occur in benzo[a]pyrene-contaminated soils that were treated with mineral oil, which was a relatively non-biodegradable NAPL cosolvent, plus a hexane fraction-NAPL which was biodegradable and contained suitable cosubstrate(s).
Decision support-oriented selection of remediation technologies to rehabilitate contaminated sites.	A methodology for selecting remediation technologies is presented as part of a decision support system for the rehabilitation of contaminated sites. It includes 2 steps: In the 1st step, a pool of suitable technologies is selected within a technologies database according to their applicability to site-specific conditions; in the 2nd step, the selected technologies: are ranked according to a multicriteria decision analysis (MCDA) approach. The MCDA was applied to allow for a transparent procedure and for the integration of expert analyses. The methodology was implemented in a previously developed georeferenced information system-based decision support system for the rehabilitation of contaminated sites and then applied to a case study (Porto Marghera, Venice, Italy). On the basis of the obtained results, the proposed methodology appeared suitable to select remediation technologies according to both technical features and requirements of available technologies, as well as site-specific environmental conditions of the site of concern, such as chemical contamination levels and remediation objectives.
Effect of amorphous silica and silica sand on removal of chromium(VI) by zero-valent iron.	The effect of two surfaces (amorphous silica and silica sand) on the reduction of chromium(VI) by zero-valent iron (Fe(0)) was investigated using batch reactors. The amendment of both surfaces significantly increased the rate and extent of Cr(VI) removal. The rate enhancement by amended surfaces is presumed to result from scavenging of Fe(0)-Cr(VI) reaction products by the provided surfaces, which minimized surface deactivation of Fe(0). The rate enhancing effect was greater for silica compared to sand, and the difference is attributed to silica's higher surface area, greater affinity for reaction products and pH buffering effect. For a given mass of Fe(0), the reactivity and longevity of Fe(0) to treat Cr(VI) increased with increasing dose of silica. Elemental analyses of the reacted iron and silica revealed that chromium removed from the solution was associated with both surfaces, with its mass distribution being approximately 1:1 per mass of iron and silica. The overall result suggests reductive precipitation was a predominant Cr(VI) removal pathway, which involves initial reduction of Cr(VI) to Cr(III), followed by formation of Cr(III)/Fe(III) hydroxides precipitates.
Multiple microbial activities for volatile organic compounds reduction by biofiltration.	In the northeast of Italy, high volatile organic carbon (VOC) emissions originate from small-medium companies producing furniture. In these conditions it is difficult to propose a single, efficient, and economic system to reduce pollution. Among the various choices, the biofiltration method could be a good solution, because microbial populations possess multiple VOC degradation potentials used to oxidize these compounds to CO2. Starting from the air emissions of a typical industrial wood-painting plant, a series of experiments studied in vitro microbial degradation of each individual VOC. Isolated strains were then added to a laboratory-scale biofiltration apparatus filled with an organic matrix, and the different VOC behavior demonstrated the potential of single and/or synergic microbial removal actions. When a single substrate was fed, the removal efficiency of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa inoculated reactor was 1.1, 1.17, and 0.33 g m(-3) hr(-1), respectively, for xylene, toluene, and ethoxy propyl acetate. A VOC mixture composed of butyl acetate, ethyl acetate, diacetin alcohol, ethoxy propanol acetate, methyl ethyl ketone, methyl isobutyl ketone, toluene, and xylene was then fed into a 2-m(3) reactor treating 100 m3 hr(-1) of contaminated air. The reactor was filled with the same mixture of organic matrix, enriched with all of the isolated strains together. During reactor study, different VOC loading rates were used, and the behavior was evaluated continuously. After a short acclimation period, the removal efficiency was > 65% at VOC load of 150-200 g m(-3) hr(-1). Quantification of removal efficiencies and VOC speciation confirmed the relationship among removal efficiencies, compound biodegradability, and the dynamic transport of each mixture component within the organic matrix. Samples of the fixed bed were withdrawn at different intervals and the heterogeneous microbial community evaluated for both total and differential compound counts.
Effectiveness of biodegradation of petroleum products by mixed bacterial populations in liquid medium at different pH values.	The possibility of using mineral oils as a carbon source by bacteria adapted to high oil concentrations was tested in liquid media with different pH values (pH = 5, 7 and 9). Two types of inocula were tested: inoculum I consisted of selected strains used in the bioremediation of oil-contaminated soils and inoculum II contained bacteria isolated from soil samples previously bioremediated at pH = 5, 7 and 9. Biodegradation was observed in all the investigated media independently of initial pH value and type of inoculum used. After 21 days of cultivation the reduction of oil content reached 60-70% in medium with pH = 5 and 80-90% in medium with pH = 7 and 9, respectively. Inoculum I consisted of strains of Arthrobacter, Pseudomonas, Agrobacter, Xanthomonas spp. After 21 days of incubation the elimination of some strains was observed. In cultures conducted at pH = 5 Agrobacter strain was no longer found, at pH 9 - the Pseudomonas strain was lost. In cultures maintained at pH = 7 all the introduced strains survived. Prolonged incubation in liquid medium at pH = 5 of strains isolated from bioremediated soils (type II inoculum) leads to the elimination of Bacillus from initial consortium of Arthrobacter, Bacillus and Pseudomonas. In cultures containing bacteria of type II inoculum (Arthrobacter, Bacillus, Achromobacter, Agrobacter, Alcaligenes, Pseudomonas, Xanthomonas, Micrococcus) conducted in liquid media at pH = 9 the Micrococcus strain was no longer present. In liquid cultures incubated at pH = 7 all introduced strains were recovered (Arthrobacter, Bacillus, Achromobacter).
Multi-step leaching of Pb and Zn contaminated soils with EDTA.	The efficiency of multi-step leaching of heavy metal contaminated soils was evaluated in a laboratory scale study. Four different soils contaminated with Pb (1136+/-16-4424+/-313mgkg(-1)) and Zn (288+/-5-5489+/-471mgkg(-1)) were obtained from industrial sites in the Mezica Valley, Slovenia and Prbram district, Czech Republic. Different dosages (2.5-40mmolkg(-1)) of ethylenediamine tetraacetate (EDTA) were used to treat soils in 1-10 leaching steps. Higher EDTA dosages did not result in a proportional gain in Pb and Zn removal. EDTA extracted Pb more efficiently than Zn from three of four tested soils. The percentage of removed Zn did not exceed 75% regardless of the soil, EDTA dosage and leaching steps. Significantly more Pb (in three of four soils) and Zn were removed from soils when the same amount of EDTA was applied in several leaching steps. The interference of major soil cations Fe and Ca with EDTA complexation as a possible factor affecting Pb and Zn removal efficiency with multi-step heap leaching was examined and is discussed. The results of our study indicate that, for some soils, using multi-step leaching instead of the more traditionally used single dose EDTA treatment could improve heavy metal removal efficiency and thus the economics of soil remediation.
Removal of SO2 from flue gas by water vapor DC corona discharge]	The influence of several factors on removal rate of SO2 from flue gas in unsaturated water vapor DC corona discharge was researched. Furthermore, the experiments of the removal rate of SO2 in pulsed discharge increased by water vapor DC corona discharge plasma were conducted. The experiment system is supplied with multi-nozzle-plate electrodes and the flow of simulated flue gas is under 70 m3/h. The results show that removal rate of SO2 can be improved by increasing the concentration of water vapor, intensity of electric field or decreasing flow of simulated flue gas. In unsaturated water vapor DC corona discharge, removal rate of SO2 can be improved by 10%, when NH3 is added as NH3 and SO2 is in a mole ratio of two to one, it can reach 60%. The removal rate of SO2 can be increased by 5% in pulsed corona discharge and reach above 90%.
Current strategies for dairy waste management: a review.	Industrial waste management is nowadays one of the main issues for ensuring a sustainable environment. Dairy waste management in particular, is very crucial in view of the high organic matter and high nutrient levels contained in dairy effluents. Dairy waste can be effectively treated either with aerobic or anaerobic processes. The main advantages of the former consist of low yield, high kinetics, pathogen free product, and high temperature operation whereas the latter is a simple, low budget and conservative technology. Occasionally, pre-treatment strategies (i.e. wetlands) are required in order to improve the efficiency of treatment methodology. Wetlands are a promising technology applied in order to remove the greater part of nutrients and minerals contained in milk based products.
Management of spent sealed radioactive sources in Turkey.	Spent radioactive sources (SRS) have been generated from industrial applications, research, and medicine in Turkey. In this study, management of SRS (Co, Cs) at Cekmece Waste Processing and Storage Facility (CWPSF) is described. Eleven Cs sources (total 851 GBq) and four Co sources (total 27.75 GBq) that had been used as levels and density gauges were conditioned. Reinforced metal drums (200 L in volume) and cement matrix were used for conditioning of these sources. In this way, greater confinement was achieved for long-term storage. Maximum dose rates at the surface of the conditioned waste package were determined. In addition to information about conditioning stages of the sources, various calculations that have been done for shielding are presented. Surface dose rates of the waste packages were 1.60 mSv h for Cs and 1.63 mSv h for Co. Measurements of the final waste packages were presented to fulfill the requirements (<2 mSv h) of transportation according to regulations for the safe transport of radioactive material.
Agricultural recycling of treatment-plant sludge: a case study for a vegetable-processing factory.	The present study evaluated the possibility of using the sludge produced by a vegetable-processing factory in agriculture. The sludge was amended with a soil mixture (i.e., a mixture of sand, soil, and manure) and was applied at 0, 165, 330, 495 and 660 t/ha to promote the growth of cucumbers. The effects of various sludge loadings on plant growth were assessed by counting plants and leaves, measuring stem lengths, and weighing the green parts and roots of the plants. We also compared heavy metal uptake by the plants for sludge loadings of 330, 495, and 660 t/ha with various recommended standards for vegetables. Our results showed that plant growth patterns were influenced to some extent by the sludge loadings. In general, the number of leaves, stem length, and dry weight of green parts exhibited a pronounced positive growth response compared with an unfertilized control, and root growth showed a lesser but still significant response at sludge loadings of 165 and 330 t/ha. The sludge application caused no significant increase in heavy metal concentrations in the leaves, though zinc (Zn) and iron (Fe) were found at elevated concentrations. However, despite the Zn and Fe accumulation, we observed no toxicity symptoms in the plants. This may be a result of cucumber's tolerance of high metal levels.
Mathematical modelling of 4-chlorophenol inhibition on COD and 4-chlorophenol removals in an activated sludge unit.	A mathematical model was developed for an activated sludge unit treating 4-chlorophenol (4-CP) containing synthetic wastewater composed of diluted molasses, urea, KH(2)PO(4) and MgSO(4) with COD and 4-CP contents of 2500 and 500 mg l(-1), respectively. The model included 4-CP inhibition on COD and 4-CP removals. Experimental data obtained at different hydraulic residence times (HRT=5-30h) and sludge ages (SRT, 3-30 days) were used to estimate the kinetic and inhibition constants for COD and 4-CP removal rates. 4-CP inhibition on COD removal was negligible while the inhibition on 4-CP removal was significant. The specific rate constant (k), saturation constant (K(s)) for COD oxidation were found to be 2.64 day(-1) and 559 mg l(-1), respectively. A similar model was used for 4-CP oxidation in the activated sludge unit and the constants were found to be k'=1.44 day(-1), K'(s)=25.7 mgl(-1), K"(CP)=559 mg l(-1),and K(I,CP)=17 mg l(-1). Increases in death rate constant because of 4-CP inhibition was also quantified and the inhibition constants were determined for both COD and 4-CP removals. Model predictions with the estimated kinetic constants were in good agreement with the experimental data. Developed model can be used to estimate the performance of an activated sludge unit treating 4-CP containing wastewater under the specified experimental conditions.
The performance of BAF using natural zeolite as filter media under conditions of low temperature and ammonium shock load.	Natural zeolite and expanded clay were used as filter media for biological aerated filter (BAF) to treat municipal wastewater in parallel in whole three test stages. The stage one test results revealed that zeolite BAF and expanded clay BAF have COD and NH(3)-N removals in the range of 84.63-93.11%, 85.74-96.26%, 82.34-93.71%, and 85.06-93.2%, respectively, under the conditions of water temperature of 20-25 degrees C and hydraulic load of 2-3m(3)/(m(2)h). At the following stage two, the influent NH(3)-N concentration was increased to about double value of the stage one, and it was investigated that the effluent NH(3)-N of expanded clay BAF increased significantly and then gradually restored to normal condition in 2 weeks, while the effluent NH(3)-N of zeolite BAF kept stable. At stage three, the low reactor temperature has also different effects on these two BAFs, under conditions of water temperature of 7-10 degrees C, hydraulic load of 2-3m(3)/(m(2)h), zeolite BAF and expanded clay BAF have COD and NH(3)-N removals in the range of 74.5-88.47% (average of 81.57%), 71.73-88.49% (average of 81.06%), 71.91-87.76% (average of 80.49%), and 38.41-77.17% (average of 65.42%), respectively. Three stages test results indicated that the zeolite BAF has a stronger adaptability to NH(3)-N shock load and low temperature compared to expanded clay BAF. In addition, the detection of the amounts of heterobacteria and nitrobacteria of two biological aerated filters in three stages also showed the zeolite filter media was more suitable to the attached growth of nitrobacteria, which is helpful to the improvement of nitrification performance in zeolite BAF.
Enhancement of hydrolysis and acidification of solid organic waste by a rotational drum fermentation system with methanogenic leachate recirculation.	A cascade process of a rotational drum fermentation system with leachate recirculation from a methanogenic to the acidogenic reactor was constructed to enhance the hydrolysis and acidification of solid organic waste. Using fresh soybean meal as substrates, two process configurations, Cascade process 1 and 2, without and with leachate recirculation, respectively were employed to perform the experimental estimation under mesophilic condition and a total HRT of 20 days. An apparent first-order hydrolysis rate constant of 9.0 x 10(-3)/d for Cascade process 1 at pH 4.5-4.6, and 15.8 x 10(-3)/d for Cascade process 2 at pH 4.6-5.2 were obtained. The apparent VS degradation ratios ranged from 16.5% to 21.1% and total VA (as acetic acid) from 14.5 to 16.7 g/L. Occupying ratios for ionized VA decreased from 40.5% to 35.3% for Cascade process 1 and increased to 68.5% for Cascade process 2. However, occupying ratios of acetic acid decreased from 96.1% to 94.3% for Cascade process 1 and to 72.6% for Cascade process 2, whereas propionic acid and butyric acid ratios increased in acidogenesis of Cascade process 2. The leachate recirculation promoted hydrolysis of substrate in Cascade process 2, where apparent hydrolysis rate constant and VS degradation ratio were higher than that of Cascade process 1.
Bacterial population dynamics in dairy waste during aerobic and anaerobic treatment and subsequent storage.	The objective of this study was to model a typical dairy waste stream, monitor the chemical and bacterial population dynamics that occur during aerobic or anaerobic treatment and subsequent storage in a simulated lagoon, and compare them to those of waste held without treatment in a simulated lagoon. Both aerobic and anaerobic treatment methods followed by storage effectively reduced the levels of total solids (59 to 68%), biological oxygen demand (85 to 90%), and sulfate (56 to 65%), as well as aerobic (83 to 95%), anaerobic (80 to 90%), and coliform (>99%) bacteria. However, only aerobic treatment reduced the levels of ammonia, and anaerobic treatment was more effective at reducing total sulfur and sulfate. The bacterial population structure of waste before and after treatment was monitored using 16S rRNA gene sequence libraries. Both treatments had unique effects on the bacterial population structure of waste. Aerobic treatment resulted in the greatest change in the type of bacteria present, with the levels of eight out of nine phyla being significantly altered. The most notable differences were the >16-fold increase in the phylum Proteobacteria and the approximately 8-fold decrease in the phylum Firmicutes. Anaerobic treatment resulted in fewer alterations, but significant decreases in the phyla Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes, and increases in the phyla Planctomycetes, Spirochetes, and TM7 were observed.
Development and application of a resazurin-based biomass activity test for activated sludge plant management.	A rapid, robust and cost-effective method of assaying the metabolic activity of the biomass of activated sludge plants would be a valuable process control tool in the wastewater treatment industry. We have developed and optimised a simple colorimetric test protocol, based on the redox dye resazurin, in which levels of reduction of the dye are proportional to cell biomass and respiration rate in both freshly sampled municipal sludges and in a surrogate activated sludge culture, Polytox. The method has been used to assess the impact of trade wastes on the activities of two municipal activated sludge populations of differing characteristics.
Compositional analysis of lignocellulosic materials: evaluation of methods used for sugar analysis of waste paper and straw.	To determine the overall efficiency of processes designed to convert lignocellulosic polysaccharides to ethanol, it is first necessary to determine the composition of the lignocellulosic substrates. Three standard methods routinely referenced in the literature for this purpose are monoethanolamine, trifluoroacetic acid and concentrated sulphuric acid-based methods. However, in the course of our studies, the suitability of these standard methods for analysis of wastepaper and wheat straw came into question. This paper details our investigations in this area, together with recommendations for appropriate modifications to one of the standard methods for reproducible and representative lignocellulosic compositional analysis of waste paper and cereal straw.
Hydrolysis of sorghum straw using phosphoric acid: evaluation of furfural production.	Sorghum straw is a waste that has been studied scarcely. The main application is its use as raw material for xylose production. Xylose is a hemicellulosic sugar mainly used for its bioconversion toward xylitol. An alternative use could be its conversion toward furfural. The objective of this work was to study the furfural production by hydrolysis of sorghum straw with phosphoric acid at 134 degrees C. Several concentrations of H(3)PO(4) in the range 2-6% and reaction time (range 0-300 min) were evaluated. Kinetic parameters of mathematical models for predicting the concentration of xylose, glucose, arabinose, acetic acid and furfural in the hydrolysates were found. Optimal conditions for furfural production by acid hydrolysis were 6% H(3)PO(4) at 134 degrees C for 300 min, which yielded a solution with 13.7 g furfural/L, 4.0 g xylose/L, 2.9 g glucose/L, 1.1g arabinose/L and 1.2g acetic acid/L. The furfural yield of the process was 0.1336 g furfural/g initial dry matter was obtained. The results confirmed that sorghum straw can be used for furfural production when it is hydrolyzed using phosphoric acid.
Evidence for degradation of abnormal prion protein in tissues from sheep with scrapie during composting.	This study investigated whether the abnormal prion protein (PrP(Sc)) in tissues from sheep with scrapie would be destroyed by composting. Tissues from sheep naturally infected with scrapie were placed within fiberglass mesh bags and buried in compost piles for 108 d in experiment 1 or 148 d in experiment 2. The temperature in the compost piles rose quickly; it was above 60 degrees C for about 2 wk and then slowly declined to the ambient temperature. Before composting, PrPSc was detected in all the tissues by Western blotting. In experiment 1, PrPsc was not detected after composting in the tissue remnants or the surrounding sawdust. In experiment 2, 1 of 5 specimens tested negative after composting, whereas PrP(Sc) was detected in the other 4 bags, though in reduced amounts compared with those before composting. Tissue weights were reduced during composting. Analysis of the tissue remnants for microbial 16S ribosomal DNA demonstrated that there were more diverse microbes involved in experiment 1 than in experiment 2 and that the guanine and cytosine content of the microbial 16S DNA was higher in the specimens of experiment 1 than in those of experiment 2, which suggests greater dominance of thermophilic microbes in experiment 1. These results indicate that composting may have value as a means for degrading PrP(Sc) in carcasses and other wastes.
Cleaner co-combustion of lignite-biomass-waste blends by utilising inhibiting compounds of toxic emissions.	In this paper, the co-combustion behaviour of coal with wastes and biomass and the related toxic gaseous emissions were investigated. The objective of this work is to add on towards a cleaner co-combustion of lignite-waste-biomass blends by utilizing compounds that could inhibit the formation of toxic pollutants. A series of co-combustion tests was performed in a pilot scale incinerator, and the emissions of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (PCDDs) and dibenzofurans (PCDFs) were measured. The co-combustion behaviour of lignite with olive kernels, MDF and sawdust was studied and the ability of additives such as urea, almond shells and municipal sewage sludge to reduce the PCDD/F emissions was examined. All blends were proven good fuels and reproducible combustion conditions were achieved. The addition of inhibitors prior to combustion showed in some cases, relatively high PCDD/F emissions reduction. Among the inhibitors tested, urea seems to achieve a reduction of PCDD/F emissions for all fuel blends, while an unstable behaviour was observed for the others.
Environmental release and mass flux partitioning of PCDD/Fs during normal and transient operation of full scale waste to energy plants.	The paper reports on global release and mass partitioning in the flux of residues of PCDD/Fs, evaluated with dedicated field campaigns at a municipal solid waste incineration plant during normal and transient operation. Results are compared with those obtained in other installations equipped with furnaces, energy recovery options and flue gas treatment technologies representative of most of the European incineration plants currently in operation. Levels of the pollutants of interest were determined in all the solid, liquid and gaseous residues produced by every single facility, and the results analysed in terms of the effects arising from the fed waste and the configuration of the plant. PCDD/Fs total release between 1.5 and 45 microg I-TEQ per ton of burned waste was evaluated, with lower values resulting from the adoption of catalytic conversion process for flue gas treatment. Most of the mass flux emitted is associated with solid residues deriving from activated carbon PCCD/F dry removal options, with significant contributions also from fly ash produced by particulate removal devices located immediately downstream the boiler and from scrubber blowdowns treatment sludge. During transient operating conditions the dioxin total release may increase by 50% with comparison to steady-state functioning.
Liming effects on cadmium stabilization in upland soil affected by gold mining activity.	To reduce cadmium (Cd) uptake of plants cultivated in heavy metal-contaminated soil, the best liming material was selected in the incubation test. The effect of the selected material was evaluated in the field. In the incubation experimentation, CaCO(3), Ca(OH)(2), CaSO(4).2H(2)O, and oyster shell meal were mixed with soil at rates corresponding to 0, 400, 800, 1600, 3200 mg Ca kg(-1). The limed soil was moistened to 70% of field moisture capacity, and incubated at 25 degrees C for 4 weeks. Ca(OH)(2) was found to be more efficient on reducing soil NH(4)OAc extractable Cd concentration, due to pH increase induced net negative charge. The selected Ca(OH)(2) was applied at rates 0, 2, 4, 8 Mg ha(-1) and then cultivated radish (Raphanus sativa L.) in the field. NH(4)OAc extractable Cd concentration of soil and plant Cd concentration decreased significantly with increasing Ca(OH)(2) rate, since alkaline-liming material markedly increased net negative charge of soil induced by pH increase, and decreased bioavailable Cd fractions (exchangeable + acidic and reducible Cd fraction) during radish cultivation. Cadmium uptake of radish could be reduced by about 50% by amending with about 5 Mg ha(-1) Ca(OH)(2) without adverse effect on radish yield and growth. The increase of net negative charge of soil by Ca(OH)(2) application may suppress Cd uptake and the competition between Ca(2+) and Cd(2+) may additionally affect the suppression of Cd uptake.
Experimental and statistical determination of indicator parameters for the evaluation of fly ash and boiler ash PCDD/PCDF concentration from municipal solid waste incinerators.	On-line detectable indicator parameters in the flue gas of municipal solid waste incinerators (MSWI) such as chlorinated benzenes (PCBz) are well known surrogate compounds for gas-phase PCDD/PCDF concentration. In the here presented work derivation of indicators is broadened to the detection of fly and boiler ash fractions with increased PCDD/PCDF content. Subsequently these fractions could be subject to further treatment such as recirculation in the combustion chamber to destroy their PCDD/PCDF and other organic pollutants' content. Aim of this work was to detect suitable on-line detectable indicator parameters in the gas phase, which are well correlated to PCDD/PCDF concentration in the solid residues. For this, solid residues and gas-phase samples were taken at three MSWI plants in Bavaria. Analysis of the ash content from different plants yielded a broad variation range of PCDD/PCDF concentrations especially after disturbed combustion conditions. Even during normal operation conditions significantly increased PCDD/PCDF concentrations may occur after unanticipated disturbances. Statistical evaluation of gas phase and ash measurements was carried out by means of principal component analysis, uni- and multivariate correlation analysis. Surprisingly, well known indicators for gas-phase PCDD/PCDF concentration such as polychlorinated benzenes and phenols proved to be insufficiently correlated to PCDD/PCDF content of the solid residues. Moreover, no single parameter alone was found appropriate to describe the PCDD/PCDF content of fly and boiler ashes. On the other hand, multivariate fitting of three or four parameters yielded convenient correlation coefficients of at least r=0.8 for every investigated case. Thereby, comprehension of plant operation parameters such as temperatures and air flow alongside concentrations of inorganic compounds in the gas phase (HCl, CO, SO2, NOx) gave the best results. However, the suitable set of parameters suited best for estimation of PCDD/PCDF concentration in solid residues has to be derived anew for each individual plant and type of ash.
Application of radiation technology to sewage sludge processing: a review.	Sewage sludge is unwanted residual solid wastes generated in wastewater treatment and its management is one of the most critical environmental issues of today. The treatment and disposal of sludge contribute a considerable proportion of the cost for running a wastewater treatment plant. The increasing amount of sewage sludge and more and more legislative regulation of its disposal have stimulated the need for developing new technologies to process sewage sludge efficiently and economically. One ideal consideration is to recycle it after proper treatment. Radiation technology is regarded to be a promising alternative for its high efficiency in pathogen inactivation, organic pollutants oxidation, odor nuisance elimination and some other characteristics enhancement, which will facilitate the down-stream process of sludge treatment and disposal. Here we present a brief review of application of radiation technology on sewage sludge processing. Some basic information of two currently available irradiation systems and fundamental radiation chemistry are introduced firstly; then the world-wide application of this promising technology is reviewed; various effects of radiation on sludge is discussed in detail; and some concluding remarks are given and some future directions are also proposed.
Changes in chlorinated organic pollutants and heavy metal content of sediments during pyrolysis.	There has been an increasing concern about the treatment and disposal of contaminated sediment from dredged rivers, harbors or estuaries due to the accumulated toxic organics such as dioxins and inorganics, particularly heavy metals like Cr, Pb, Zn, Cu, Hg and Cd. However, considering the huge amount of materials and financial costs involved, any candidate technology must ultimately result in reusable, residual by-products. This can only be made possible if the toxic pollutants are removed or stabilized in the raw sediment and then fed back into the materials cycle. Currently, we are developing a pyrolysis process for the commercial-scale cleanup of dioxins and heavy metal-contaminated river sediment to yield reusable char for various economical applications. In this connection, this paper describes our preliminary investigation into the extent of dioxins and heavy metal volatilization from actual contaminated sediment. The stabilization of certain metallic species, particularly Cr ions, was studied.
Effects of oxidative coupling reaction of 4-chlorophenol with manganese oxide on the phenanthrene sorption.	The objective of this study was to evaluate the abiotic transformation rate of 4-chlorophenol (4-CP) by manganese oxide. Sorption and desorption characteristics of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) on manganese oxide were also investigated in the presence of 4-CP. Results show that manganese oxide is effective for the transformation of 4-CP and initial reaction rate is the first-order with respect to the 4-CP and manganese oxide. Also, 4-CP transformation rates by manganese oxide are highly dependent upon solution pH and concentration of humic acid. At pH near the point of zero charge (PZC) of manganese oxide, the maximum reaction rate of 4-CP was observed. Sorption of phenanthrene on manganese oxide is significantly increased as a result of 4-CP transformation and subsequent generation of byproducts. Also, sorbed phenanthrene on manganese oxide in the presence of 4-CP showed high degree of desorption resistance.
Mass transport in groundwater near hanging-wall interceptors.	This study investigated mass transport near trenches designed to capture contaminated groundwater. Numerical models simulated migration of contaminant plumes toward trenches oriented perpendicular to regional groundwater flow, partially penetrating a hypothetical unconfined aquifer. Plumes originated at the top of the simulated groundwater flow system. The smallest trench necessary to capture a contaminant plume was identified for various sets of mass transport parameters. Results suggest that, in predominantly horizontal flow systems such as those simulated here: (i) vertical hydraulic conductivity has relatively little effect on downward propagation of contaminant plumes and required trench size, (ii) transverse vertical dispersivity exerts significant control on plume and trench depth, and (iii) recharge dilutes and thus reduces plume and trench width, but may induce downward vertical hydraulic gradients that deepen plumes and trenches. For all cases considered, trenches oriented perpendicular to regional groundwater flow, placed close to the leading edge of a contaminant plume, and sized slightly larger than the plume (in transverse cross-section) facilitate plume capture.
Removal of arsenic from contaminated soils using different salt extractants.	This study presents an environmental-friendly and cost effective method for the extraction of arsenic from contaminated soils. Laboratory experiments using inorganic salts, potassium phosphate (KH2PO4), potassium chloride (KCl), potassium nitrate (KNO3), potassium sulfate (K2SO4), and sodium perchlorate (NaClO4) were evaluated as arsenic extractants. An Andosol soil was artificially contaminated with arsenite [As(III)] and arsenate [As(V)]. The soil was washed in a batch process with different salt solutions in the pH range 3-11 for 24 hours at 20 degrees C. Among the various potassium and sodium salts tested, KH2PO4 was found to be highly effective in extracting arsenic from As(III)-soil attaining more than 80% and 40% from As(V)-soil in neutral pH range. Other salts were particularly ineffective in extraction of arsenic from both soils. More arsenic was extracted more from the As(III)-soil than the As(V)-soil.
Selective recovery of Mo, Co and Al from spent Co/Mo/gamma-Al2O3 catalyst: effect of calcination temperature.	A combination of pyro and hydrometallurgical process has been proposed to selectively recover molubdenum, cobalt and aluminium from the spent catalyst containing 12.3% Mo; 31.8% Al; 2.38% Co; 9.5% S and 2.9% C. Before a two-stage alkali-acid leaching process to selectively target Mo, Co and Al from the uncrushed sample, the spent catalyst was calcined at different temperatures. Characterization of different calcined samples was carried out by different instrumental analysis like XRD, TG/DTA, IR and SEM in order to understand the structural changes and dissolution behavior of spent catalyst. It was found that calcination at 500 degrees C preferred for spent catalyst roasting since the surface and pore structures obtained by roasting at this temperature facilitated dissolution of calcined spent catalyst in the leachant. Mo was selectively separated and recovered from the leach liquor by carbon adsorption method; whereas, Al and Co were separated by an organo-phosphinic-based extractant, Cyanex 272. In the whole process, 95.9% Mo, 89.6% Co and 39.8% Al was recovered from the spent catalyst. Finally, a complete process flowsheet has been presented.
Advances in enhanced biological phosphorus removal: from micro to macro scale.	The enhanced biological phosphorus removal (EBPR) process has been implemented in many wastewater treatment plants worldwide. While the EBPR process is indeed capable of efficient phosphorus (P) removal performance, disturbances and prolonged periods of insufficient P removal have been observed at full-scale plants on numerous occasions under conditions that are seemingly favourable for EBPR. Recent studies in this field have utilised a wide range of approaches to address this problem, from studying the microorganisms that are primarily responsible for or detrimental to this process, to determining their biochemical pathways and developing mathematical models that facilitate better prediction of process performance. The overall goal of each of these studies is to obtain a more detailed insight into how the EBPR process works, where the best way of achieving this objective is through linking together the information obtained using these different approaches. This review paper critically assesses the recent advances that have been achieved in this field, particularly relating to the areas of EBPR microbiology, biochemistry, process operation and process modelling. Potential areas for future research are also proposed. Although previous research in this field has undoubtedly improved our level of understanding, it is clear that much remains to be learned about the process, as many unanswered questions still remain. One of the challenges appears to be the integration of the existing and growing scientific knowledge base with the observations and applications in practice, which this paper hopes to partially achieve.
The use of refused tea as litter material for broiler chickens.	A completely randomized design experiment was conducted to determine the suitability of refused tea (RT) as a litter material for broiler chickens. Physiochemical properties of RT were compared with paddy husk (PH). Subsequently, broilers were raised on RT- or PH-based litter to compare the performances and litter qualities. Twenty-day-old broiler chicks (n = 150) were randomly allocated into 6 deep litter pens so that each treatment had 3 replicates. Chicks received 0.8 ft(2) of floor spacing until d 28 and 1.3 ft(2) thereafter. Each cage had a feeder and a drinker. Litter materials and litter samples taken on 28, 35, and 39 d were analyzed for bulk density, moisture, ash, and N. Chick mortality was low (1.3%) and similar on 2 types of litters. Live weights on d 28, 35, 39, and weight gains, feed intakes, dressing percentages, and feed conversion ratios were not affected by the type of litter material. The bulk density, moisture level, and pH of the RT were comparable with PH. Even though the water-holding capacity of PH (213%) was significantly higher (P < 0.01) than RT (70%), the latter material had significantly higher (P < 0.01) water-releasing capacity compared with the former (17.9 vs. 13.6%). Throughout the experiment the RT litter had around 10% units higher moisture level than PH litter. By d 39, the moisture content of the RT litter was (48%) significantly higher (P = 0.05) than PH litter (37%). The N contents of RT litter were higher (P < 0.05) than those of PH on d 28, 35, and 39, being 8.1, 7.8, and 7% and 3.4, 3.6, and 3%, respectively. It was concluded that RT could be successfully used as an alternative litter material for broilers. A higher N content in RT-based spent broiler litter would make it be a better organic fertilizer and ruminant feed compared with PH-based litter.
Analysis of bacterial communities in vegetable and straw wastes composting by Biolog method]	Bacterial communities were analyzed using Biolog method in agricultural waste composting. The results of cluster analysis and principle component analysis indicated that bacterial communities varied greatly during the first stage of composting, while began to stabilize during the second stage. Bacteria that could utilize the first and second kinds of carbon sources on Biolog plate were found to be the dominant ones during composting, which were also believed to be related with lignocellulose degradation. Thermophilic bacteria were believed to be able to metabolize the fourth and sixth kinds of carbon sources on Biolog plate. Thereinto, the fourth kinds of carbon sources were also connected with lignocellulose transformation. The bacteria utilizing the sixth kinds of carbon sources were just able to metabolize some simpler organic matters.
Complex technology of waste demercuration solutions purifying from mercury]	The authors studied sorption of mercurial anion complexes on AN-31 ion exchangers in J(-) form and AV-17 industrial ion exchanger containing groups of quarternary ammonium base, in J(-)3 form. Findings are that putting an oxidizer (polyiodide) into sorbent improves purification degree of mercury-containing solutions up to MAC. The authors suggested a technologic scheme to purify waste demercuration solutions for practical use.
PCDD/F emissions and distributions in Waelz plant and ambient air during different operating stages.	Significant formation of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/Fs) has been observed in a typical Waelz process plant. In 2005, the Waelz plant investigated was equipped with a dust settling chamber (DSC), a venturi cooling tower, a cyclone (CY), and baghouse filter (BF). In early 2006 activated carbon injection (ACI) was adopted to reduce PCDD/F emissions from the plant investigated. Samplings of flue gases and ash were simultaneously conducted at different sampling points in the Waelz plantto evaluate removal efficiency and partitioning of PCDD/Fs between the gas phase and particulates. As the operating temperature of the dust settling chamber (DSC) is increased from 480 to 580 degrees C, the PCDD/F concentration measured at the DSC outlet decreases from 1220 to 394 ng-l-TEQ/Nm3. By applying ACI, the PCDD/F concentrations of stack gas decrease from 139-194 to 3.38 ng-l-TEQ/ Nm(3) (a reduction of 97.6-98.3%) while the PCDD/F concentration of reacted ash increases dramatically from 0.97 to 29.4 ng-l-TEQ/g, as the activated carbon injection rate is controlled at 40 kg/h. Additionally, ambient air PCDD/F concentrations were measured in the vicinity of this facility during different operating stages (shutdown, and operation with and without ACI). The ambient PCDD/F concentration measured downwind and 2.5 km from the Waelz plant decreases from 568 to 206 fg-I-TEQ/m(3) after ACI has been applied to collect the dioxins. Due to the high PCDD/F removal efficiency achieved with ACI + BF, about 24.3 and 3980 ng-l-TEQ/kg EAF-dust treated are discharged via stack gas and reacted ash, respectively, in this facility.
Biotreatment of chrolobenzene-contained waste gas in trickling biofilters enhanced by SDS]	Biofitlers inoculated P. putida strain and packed respectively with ACOF and ceramic pellets were employed to purify the chlorobenzene contained gases. An anionic surfactant, sodium dodecyl sulfonate (SDS) was introduced to trickling liquid to investigate its effect on the performance of biofilters. The result of microorganism cultivation shows that the inhibition to P. putida will be occurred when the SDS concentration in culture medium exceeded 35 mg/L. Addition of SDS in trickling liquid at concentration of 25 mg/L reduce the acclimatization periods and improve the performance of biofilter at stable condition. For the ACOF biofilter, the optimum SDS addition concentration is 25 mg/L, and the maximum elimination capacity of 234.7 g/(m3 x h) could be achieved. 18% - 20% of SDS in trickling liquid was lost after five days operation, but the lose could not reduce the efficiency of biofilter evidently.
PCDD/Fs distribution in MSWI fly ash and identification of the indicated isomer]	Four municipal solid waste incinerator (MSWI) fly ash samples were analyzed for PCDD/Fs. The toxicity equivalent quotient (TEQ) was 0.34 - 3.80 ng/g. The congeners distribution presented great comparability to each other as 1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD and 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF contributed about 33.6% - 40.5% of total TEQ. Combination with the published PCDD/Fs results of the long-term monitoring in MSWI fly ash in Shanghai, it was found that total TEQ had good correlation with 1,2,3,7,8-PeCDD and 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF contribution (r = 0.996 3 and 0.997 4 respectively), so they could be considered as indicator isomers for the rapid determination of TEQ evaluation, especially in long-term monitoring of one incinerator. The indicator factors were 4.466 4 and 3.164 6 respectively. The analysis of the PCDD/Fs results from different incinerators also showed good correlation with 2,3,4,7,8-PeCDF contribution (r = 0.984 9) and it could be considered as indicator isomer for TEQ evaluation of MSWI fly ash samples. The indicator factor was 3.4194.
Characterisation of odour masking agents often used in the solid waste industry for odour abatement.	Odours from waste management facilities, wastewater treatment plants and composting areas have become a major nuisance issue for operators. In addition to facing regulations which tend to become more stringent, operators are also facing increased public pressure due to complaints from neighbours resulting in the temporary shutdown of such plants, therefore the elimination of atmospheric odours is becoming a major industrial objective. Many commercial odour control products are available on the market, however, very little is known concerning their real efficiency and mechanism of action. This paper will present the results from the study of 19 agents collected in various countries. The products were first characterised both in terms of their chemical composition and sensory properties. Selected products with different modes of application were then submitted to a study of their efficiency at the pilot-scale level. The results from one product test showed no significant difference in their odour removal efficiency as determined by olfactory and chemical analysis of the emission before and after application of the odour control product.
Production of lipase by a newly isolated Bacillus coagulans under solid-state fermentation using melon wastes.	An extracellular lipase was produced by Bacillus coagulans by solid-state fermentation. Solid waste from melon was used as the basic nutrient source and was supplemented with olive oil. The highest lipase production (78,069 U/g) was achieved after 24 h of cultivation with 1% olive oil enrichment. Enzyme had an optimal activity at 37 degrees C and pH 7.0, and sodium dodecyl sulfate increased lipase activity. NH4NO3 increased enzyme production, whereas organic nitrogen had no effect. The effect of the type of carbon sources on lipolytic enzyme production was also studied. The best results were obtained with starch and maltose (148,932 and 141,629 U/g, respectively), whereas a rather low enzyme activity was found in cultures grown on glucose and galactose (approx 118,769 and 123,622 U/g, respectively). Enzyme was inhibited with Mn+2 and Ni+2 by 68 and 74%, respectively. By contrast, Ca+2 enhanced enzyme production by 5%.
Environmental management of industrial hazardous wastes in India.	Hazardous wastes are considered highly toxic and therefore disposal of such wastes needs proper attention so as to reduce possible environmental hazards. Industrial growth has resulted in generation of huge volume of hazardous wastes in the country. In addition to this, hazardous wastes sometimes get imported mainly from the western countries for re-processing or recycling. Inventorisation of hazardous wastes generating units in the country is not yet completed. Scientific disposal of hazardous wastes has become a major environmental issue in India. Hazardous Wastes (Management and Handling) Rules, 1989 have been framed by the Central Government and amended in 2000 and 2003 to deal with the hazardous wastes related environmental problems that may arise in the near future. This paper gives details about the hazardous wastes management in India. Health effects of the selected hazardous substances are also discussed in the paper.
Gamma radiation process for destruction of toxic polychlorinated biphenyls (Pcbs) in transformer oils.	Polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are synthetic organic chemicals commercially used worldwide in many applications. PCBs were used in oils because of their excellent properties such as good thermal stability, flame resistance, dielectric constant, high break down voltage, high boiling point and low volatility. However, because of their adverse affects on environment and human health, the use of PCBs has been banned now. PCBs are today considered among the widespread pollutants in the global system. PCBs sources still exist in various industrial products and in waste streams such as capacitor oils, lubricating oils, transformer oils, hydraulic oils, paints, rubbers, cables, etc. Several such materials containing PCBs emanating from various sources need to be detoxified before their reuse or before going to landfill for final disposal. Various remedial technologies have been developed in the world to destroy toxic PCBs. The radiolysis has been investigated as an environment-friendly process for waste oil treatment contaminated with PCBs, which may be a better alternative to the globally most widely accepted incineration method. A study was undertaken to detoxify PCBs in transformer oil by gamma radiation using Cobalt 60 source. Analysis of PCBs in transformer oils before and after radiation was carried out by GC-MS instrument. The effect of radiation dose and destruction of PCBs in transformer oils are discussed in details in the present paper. The method used was found to be highly effective and destruction was as high as 79 %. Further, the transformer oil samples were also evaluated before and after radiation to check their quality. The properties of oils were not significantly altered by gamma radiation treatment as evident from the results given in the paper.
HIV infection and related risk behaviors in a community of recyclable waste collectors of Santos, Brazil.	To estimate the seroprevalence of HIV, hepatitis B and C and syphilis and to describe risk behaviors associated to their transmission among recyclable waste collectors.
Risk minimisation of FGD gypsum leachates by incorporation of aluminium sulphate.	The incorporation of aluminium sulphate to (flue gas desulphurisation) FGD gypsum before its disposal was investigated as a way to minimise the risk supposed by the high fluoride content of its leachates. Using a bath method the kinetic and equilibrium processes of fluoride removal by aluminium sulphate were studied at fluoride/aluminium molar concentration (F/Al) ratios in the range 1.75 10(-2)-1.75 under the pH conditions (about 6.5) of FGD gypsum leachates. It was found that fluoride removal was a very fast process at any of the (F/Al) ratios subject of study, with equilibrium attained within the first 15 min of interaction. High decreases in solution fluoride concentrations (50-80%) were found at the equilibrium state. The use of aluminium sulphate in the stabilization of FGD gypsum proved to greatly decrease its fluoride leachable content (in the range 20-90% for aluminium sulphate doses of 0.1-5%, as determined by the European standard EN 12457-4). Such fluoride leaching minimisation assures the characterization of this by-product as a waste acceptable at landfills for non-hazardous wastes according to the Council Decision 2003/33/EC on waste disposal. Furthermore, as derived from column leaching studies, the proposed stabilization system showed to be highly effective in simulated conditions of disposal, displaying fluoride leaching reduction values about 55 and 80% for aluminium sulphate added amounts of 1 and 2%, respectively.
Effect of concomitant substances and addition order on the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand]	Adsorption of Tween 80 on sand was investigated, and the effect of inorganic salts (CaCl2), anionic surfactant (SDS) and lignosulphonates (sodium lignosulphonate or ammonium lignosulphonate) on the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand were evaluated at 25 degrees C. The results show that saturated adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand enhance when CaCl2 or SDS is added into flushing solution of Tween 80. And the adsorption of Tween 80 on sand increase with the increase of molar fraction of CaCl2 or SDS in mixed flushing solution. And adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand also enhance when SDS is added into sand firstly. The effects of mixing ratios and addition order of lignosulphonates on adsorption of Tween 80 were considered. The results show that with the increase of molar fraction of lignosulphonates in mixing flushing solution, adsorption amount of Tween 80 on sand decrease. The adsorption amount of Tween 80 reduce 20%-75% due to the exist of ammonium lignosulphonate is superior to sodium lignosulphonate (10%-60%) when mix the lignosulphonates-Tween 80 at the total mass ratios of 1:10, while the adsorption amount of Tween 80 reduce 70%-90% at the total mass ratios of 1:2. Lignosulphonates added into sand firstly is more efficient than that together. Therefore,use of lignosulphonates as a preflush can reduce the adsorption of surfactants on sand and is a better method to applied in in situ flushing.
Advanced oxidation of refractory organics in leachate--potential methods and evaluation of biodegradability of the remaining substrate.	An assessment of potential methods suitable for degradation and/or reduction of refractory organics was performed on landfill leachate from SYSAV AB, Malm, Sweden. Pretreatment of the leachate was performed in a sequence batch reactor designed for nitrification in activated sludge. Oxidation of the leachate was then O3, O3/pH adjustment (pH 9 and 10), H2O2, O3/H2O2 and performic acid in lab-scale reactors. The degradation of organic material was followed with chemical oxygen demand (COD) measurements for all experiments except for the performic acid treatment for which total organic carbon (TOC) measurements were used. The potential degradation of refractory organics into biodegradable organic material was analysed by subsequent oxygen uptake rate (OUR) measurements in laboratory batch reactors. Ozonation of biologically pre-treated leachate increased reduction of the organic material. The most biodegradable organic material was produced after oxidation with only ozone and ozonation at pH 9. Performic acid did not reduce the content of organic material in the leachate. However, a combination of biological pretreatment, chemical oxidation with O3/H2O2 and a subsequent biological process resulted in the most efficient oxidation method for the tested leachate.
Microbial population dynamics during startup of a full-scale anaerobic digester treating industrial food waste in Kyoto eco-energy project.	The microbial community in a full-scale anaerobic digester (2300m3) treating industrial food waste in the Kyoto Eco-Energy Project was analyzed using terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism for eubacterial and archaeal 16S rRNA genes. Both thermophilic and mesophilic sludge of treated swine waste were seeded to the digestion tank. During the 150-day startup period, coffee grounds as a main food waste, along with potato, kelp and boiled beans, tofu, bean curd lees, and deep-fried bean curd were fed to the digestion process step-by-step (max. 40t/d). Finally, the methane yield reached 360m3/t-feed with 40days' retention time, although temporary accumulation of propionate was observed. Eubacterial communities that formed in the thermophilic digestion tank differed greatly from both thermophilic and mesophilic types of seed sludge. Results suggest that the Actinomyces/Thermomonospora and Ralstonia/Shewanella were contributors for hydrolyzation and degradation of food waste into volatile fatty acids. Acetate-utilizing methanogens, Methanosaeta, were dominant in seed sludges of both types, but they decreased drastically during processing in the digestion tank. Methanosarcina and Methanobrevibacter/Methanobacterium were, respectively, possible main contributors for methane production from acetate and H2 plus CO2.
Assessment of E. coli and Salmonella spp. infection risks associated with different fecal sludge disposal practices in Thailand.	The proper management of fecal sludge (FS), to block the transmission pathways of pathogens, is rarely enforced in many parts of the world. Health risks associated with different disposal practices of FS in peri-urban settings of a large metropolis in Thailand were assessed; Tha Klong sub-district with indiscriminate FS dumping, and Klong Luang sub-district which has an FS treatment system. The study showed that indiscriminate FS dumping from along the canal banks and discharge of market waste were likely the major sources of E. coli and Salmonella spp. in contamination of the canal water. The increased microbial pathogen concentrations near the FS treatment facility also indicated contamination risks from poorly designed treatment facilities. Quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA) indicated very high water-related infection risk levels compared to the actual locally recorded disease occurrences. These results indicated that the QMRA model needs to be modified to take account of immunological differences between populations in developed countries, where the model was developed, and developing countries. In addition, further sensitivity factors are needed to reflect different societal behavior patterns, and therefore contact with potentially contaminated water, in different sub-populations of many less developed communities.
Emission of greenhouse gases from home aerobic composting, anaerobic digestion and vermicomposting of household wastes in Brisbane (Australia).	This study investigated greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from three different home waste treatment methods in Brisbane, Australia. Gas samples were taken monthly from 34 backyard composting bins from January to April 2009. Averaged over the study period, the aerobic composting bins released lower amounts of CH(4) (2.2 mg m(- 2) h(-1)) than the anaerobic digestion bins (9.5 mg m(-2) h(-1)) and the vermicomposting bins (4.8 mg m(-2) h( -1)). The vermicomposting bins had lower N(2)O emission rates (1.2 mg m(-2) h(- 1)) than the others (1.5-1.6 mg m(-2) h( -1)). Total GHG emissions including both N(2)O and CH(4) were 463, 504 and 694 mg CO(2)-e m(- 2) h(-1) for vermicomposting, aerobic composting and anaerobic digestion, respectively, with N(2)O contributing >80% in the total budget. The GHG emissions varied substantially with time and were regulated by temperature, moisture content and the waste properties, indicating the potential to mitigate GHG emission through proper management of the composting systems. In comparison with other mainstream municipal waste management options including centralized composting and anaerobic digestion facilities, landfilling and incineration, home composting has the potential to reduce GHG emissions through both lower on-site emissions and the minimal need for transportation and processing. On account of the lower cost, the present results suggest that home composting provides an effective and feasible supplementary waste management method to a centralized facility in particular for cities with lower population density such as the Australian cities.
Biorefining of wood: combined production of ethanol and xylanase from waste fiber sludge.	The possibility to utilize fiber sludge, waste fibers from pulp mills and lignocellulose-based biorefineries, for combined production of liquid biofuel and biocatalysts was investigated. Without pretreatment, fiber sludge was hydrolyzed enzymatically to monosaccharides, mainly glucose and xylose. In the first of two sequential fermentation steps, the fiber sludge hydrolysate was fermented to cellulosic ethanol with the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Although the final ethanol yields were similar, the ethanol productivity after 9.5 h was 3.3 g/l/h for the fiber sludge hydrolysate compared with only 2.2 g/l/h for a reference fermentation with similar sugar content. In the second fermentation step, the spent fiber sludge hydrolysate (the stillage obtained after distillation) was used as growth medium for recombinant Aspergillus niger expressing the xylanase-encoding Trichoderma reesei (Hypocrea jecorina) xyn2 gene. The xylanase activity obtained with the spent fiber sludge hydrolysate (8,500 nkat/ml) was higher than that obtained in a standard medium with similar monosaccharide content (1,400 nkat/ml). Analyses based on deglycosylation with N-glycosidase F suggest that the main part of the recombinant xylanase was unglycosylated and had molecular mass of 20.7 kDa, while a minor part had N-linked glycosylation and molecular mass of 23.6 kDa. Chemical analyses of the growth medium showed that important carbon sources in the spent fiber sludge hydrolysate included xylose, small aliphatic acids, and oligosaccharides. The results show the potential of converting waste fiber sludge to liquid biofuel and enzymes as coproducts in lignocellulose-based biorefineries.
Nanotechnology risk assessment from a waste management perspective: are the current tools adequate?	The burgeoning nanotechnology industry is rapidly generating new forms of waste streams generically referred herein as nanowastes. However, little is known about the fate and behavior of these waste streams and their impacts thereof in different ecological systems despite their increasingly widespread dispersion into the environment through production, distribution, handling, and nanomaterials (NMs) incorporation into bulk products processes. In this paper, risk assessment of nanotechnology from a waste management perspective was examined to elucidate potential new forms of challenges nanowastes may likely pose to the current legislative and waste management systems. This was through the identification of several knowledge gaps that merit urgent attention in order to increase our collective understanding of managing nanowastes safely, responsibly, and sustainably. The paper presents the identified gaps and consequently proposes a qualitative risk assessment of nanowastes to address some of the current challenges. The applicability of the proposed model is illustrated through several examples. In addition, the first nanowastes classification protocol presented in this article show that a given nanomaterial may result in generating nanowaste streams of different forms with variant hazard levels ranging from benign to extremely being hazardous waste streams - a dramatic phenomenon from the conventional waste streams due to macroscale chemicals. The study shows that it is in the early days to draw broad generic classification of different nanowastes, and each stream may require their risk profile be assessed on a case-by-case basis. We conclude by presenting several recommendations on what needs to be done in dealing with nanowastes as means of avoiding unintended long-term consequences of nanotechnology.
Polychlorinated biphenyls and organochlorinated pesticides in birds from a contaminated region in South China: association with trophic level, tissue distribution and risk assessment.	Birds have been used successfully for biomonitoring of the levels and effects of persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in the environments; however, there is exceedingly little data on organochlorinated pesticide (OCPs) and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) residues in bird inhabiting in China. In the present study, we detected the concentrations of PCBs, dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane and its metabolites (DDTs) and hexachlorocyclohexanes (HCHs) in muscle, liver and kidney of birds that inhabit in an e-waste recycling site. Associated with the stable isotope ratio ( (15)N), we investigated the effect of trophic level on the body burdens of persistent contaminants in birds. The tissue distributions of contaminants in these birds were examined, and a preliminary risk assessment was also conducted.
LCA of local strategies for energy recovery from waste in England, applied to a large municipal flow.	An intense waste management (WM) planning activity is currently undergoing in England to build the infrastructure necessary to treat residual wastes, increase recycling levels and the recovery of energy from waste. From the analyses of local WM strategic and planning documents we have identified the emerging of three different energy recovery strategies: established combustion of residual waste; pre-treatment of residual waste and energy recovery from Solid Recovered Fuel in a dedicated plant, usually assumed to be a gasifier; pre-treatment of residual waste and reliance on the market to accept the 'fuel from waste' so produced. Each energy recovery strategy will result in a different solution in terms of the technology selected; moreover, on the basis of the favoured solution, the total number, scale and location of thermal treatment plants built in England will dramatically change. To support the evaluation and comparison of these three WM strategy in terms of global environmental impacts, energy recovery possibilities and performance with respect to changing 'fuel from waste' market conditions, the LCA comparison of eight alternative WM scenarios for a real case study dealing with a large flow of municipal wastes was performed with the modelling tool WRATE. The large flow of waste modelled allowed to formulate and assess realistic alternative WM scenarios and to design infrastructural systems which are likely to correspond to those submitted for approval to the local authorities. The results show that all alternative scenarios contribute to saving abiotic resources and reducing global warming potential. Particularly relevant to the current English debate, the performance of a scenario was shown to depend not from the thermal treatment technology but from a combination of parameters, among which most relevant are the efficiency of energy recovery processes (both electricity and heat) and the calorific value of residual waste and pre-treated material. The contribution and relative importance of recycling and treatment/recovery processes change with the impact category. The lack of reprocessing plants in the area of the case study has shown the relevance of transport distances for recyclate material in reducing the efficiency of a WM system. Highly relevant to the current English WM infrastructural debate, these results for the first time highlight the risk of a significant reduction in the energy that could be recovered by local WM strategies relying only on the market to dispose of the 'fuel from waste' in a non dedicated plant in the case that the SRF had to be sent to landfill for lack of treatment capacity.
Optimal utilization of waste-to-energy in an LCA perspective.	Energy production from two types of municipal solid waste was evaluated using life cycle assessment (LCA): (1) mixed high calorific waste suitable for production of solid recovered fuels (SRF) and (2) source separated organic waste. For SRF, co-combustion was compared with mass burn incineration. For organic waste, anaerobic digestion (AD) was compared with mass burn incineration. In the case of mass burn incineration, incineration with and without energy recovery was modelled. Biogas produced from anaerobic digestion was evaluated for use both as transportation fuel and for heat and power production. All relevant consequences for energy and resource consumptions, emissions to air, water and soil, upstream processes and downstream processes were included in the LCA. Energy substitutions were considered with respect to two different energy systems: a present-day Danish system based on fossil fuels and a potential future system based on 100% renewable energy. It was found that mass burn incineration of SRF with energy recovery provided savings in all impact categories, but co-combustion was better with respect to Global Warming (GW). If all heat from incineration could be utilized, however, the two alternatives were comparable for SRF. For organic waste, mass burn incineration with energy recovery was preferable over anaerobic digestion in most impact categories. Waste composition and flue gas cleaning at co-combustion plants were critical for the environmental performance of SRF treatment, while the impacts related to utilization of the digestate were significant for the outcome of organic waste treatment. The conclusions were robust in a present-day as well as in a future energy system. This indicated that mass burn incineration with efficient energy recovery is a very environmentally competitive solution overall.
Property-close source separation of hazardous waste and waste electrical and electronic equipment--a Swedish case study.	Through an agreement with EEE producers, Swedish municipalities are responsible for collection of hazardous waste and waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). In most Swedish municipalities, collection of these waste fractions is concentrated to waste recycling centres where households can source-separate and deposit hazardous waste and WEEE free of charge. However, the centres are often located on the outskirts of city centres and cars are needed in order to use the facilities in most cases. A full-scale experiment was performed in a residential area in southern Sweden to evaluate effects of a system for property-close source separation of hazardous waste and WEEE. After the system was introduced, results show a clear reduction in the amount of hazardous waste and WEEE disposed of incorrectly amongst residual waste or dry recyclables. The systems resulted in a source separation ratio of 70 wt% for hazardous waste and 76 wt% in the case of WEEE. Results show that households in the study area were willing to increase source separation of hazardous waste and WEEE when accessibility was improved and that this and similar collection systems can play an important role in building up increasingly sustainable solid waste management systems.
Soil bioassays as tools for sludge compost quality assessment.	Composting is a waste management technology that is becoming more widespread as a response to the increasing production of sewage sludge and the pressure for its reuse in soil. In this study, different bioassays (plant germination, earthworm survival, biomass and reproduction, and collembolan survival and reproduction) were assessed for their usefulness in the compost quality assessment. Compost samples, from two different composting plants, were taken along the composting process, which were characterized and submitted to bioassays (plant germination and collembolan and earthworm performance). Results from our study indicate that the noxious effects of some of the compost samples observed in bioassays are related to the low organic matter stability of composts and the enhanced release of decomposition endproducts, with the exception of earthworms, which are favored. Plant germination and collembolan reproduction inhibition was generally associated with uncomposted sludge, while earthworm total biomass and reproduction were enhanced by these materials. On the other hand, earthworm and collembolan survival were unaffected by the degree of composting of the wastes. However, this pattern was clear in one of the composting procedures assessed, but less in the other, where the release of decomposition endproducts was lower due to its higher stability, indicating the sensitivity and usefulness of bioassays for the quality assessment of composts.
Hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) as new Stockholm Convention POPs--a global perspective on the management of Lindane and its waste isomers.	Hexachlorocyclohexane (HCH) isomers (-, - and - (Lindane)) were recently included as new persistent organic pollutants (POPs) in the Stockholm Convention, and therefore, the legacy of HCH and Lindane production became a contemporary topic of global relevance. This article wants to briefly summarise the outcomes of the Stockholm Convention process and make an estimation of the amount of HCH waste generated and dumped in the former Lindane/HCH-producing countries.
Anaerobic pretreatment and increased solid destruction for vegetable solid waste codigested with cattle slurry.	Municipal solid waste and industrial solid waste are considered to be a large quantity of organic fraction which have contributed to different levels of pollution on land and ground water. The present study was carried out for the determination of characteristics of vegetable solid wastes, cattle slurry and sewage sludge for effective anaerobic co-digestion. The objective of the work was to study the treatability of vegetable solid wastes by co-digestion with municipal sewage and cattle slurry in different ratios. The laboratory batch scale studies were carried out to determine effects of various process parameters on startup and digestion. The pretreatment on solid waste has resulted in effective co-digestion of vegetable solid waste and hence showed increased biogas yield. The optimum ratio of vegetable wastes to inoculum (cow dung and anaerobic sewage sludge in the ratio of 1:1) was found to be 1:2 for effective co-digestion and maximum biogas yield.
Earthworm effects on gaseous emissions during vermifiltration of pig fresh slurry.	Treatment of liquid manure can result in the production of ammonia, nitrous oxide and methane. Earthworms mix and transform nitrogen and carbon without consuming additional energy. The objective of this paper is to analyse whether earthworms modify the emissions of NH(3), N(2)O, CH(4) and CO(2) during vermifiltration of pig slurry. The experiment used mesocosms of around 50 L, made from a vermifilter treating the diluted manure of a swine house. Three levels of slurry were added to the mesocosms, with or without earthworms, during one month, in triplicate. Earthworm abundance and gas emissions were measured three and five times, respectively. There was a decrease in emissions of ammonia and nitrous oxide and a sink of methane in treatments with earthworms. We suggest that earthworm abundance can be used as a bioindicator of low energy input, and low greenhouse gas and ammonia output in systems using fresh slurry with water recycling.
Assessment of skin exposure to N,N-dimethylformamide and methyl ethylketone through chemical protective gloves and decontamination of gloves for reuse purposes.	N,N-dimethylformamide (DMF) and methyl ethylketone (MEK) are the hazardous chemicals commonly used in the synthetic leather industries. Although chemical protective gloves provide adequate skin exposure protection to workers in these industries, there is currently no clear guideline or understanding with regard to the use duration of these gloves. In this study, the permeation of DMF/MEK mixture through neoprene gloves and the desorption of chemicals from contaminated gloves were conducted using the ASTM F739 cell. The acceptable use duration time of the gloves against DMF/MEK permeation was estimated by assuming a critical body burden of chemical exposure as a result of dermal absorption. In a re-exposure cycle of 5 days, decontamination of the gloves by aeration at 25C was found to be inadequate in a reduction of breakthrough time as compared to a new unexposed glove. However, decontamination of the gloves by heating at 70 or 100C showed that the protective coefficient of the exposed gloves had similar levels of resistance to DMF/MEK as that of new gloves. Implications of this study include an understanding of the use duration of neoprene gloves and proper decontamination of chemical protective gloves for reuse.
A framework for understanding waste management studies in construction.	During the past decades, construction and demolition (C&D) waste issues have received increasing attention from both practitioners and researchers around the world. A plethora of research relating to C&D waste management (WM) has been published in scholarly journals. However, a comprehensive understanding of the C&D WM research is somehow absent in spite of its proliferation. The aim of this paper is to develop a framework that helps readers understand the C&D WM research as archived in selected journals. Papers under the topic of C&D WM are retrieved based on a set of rigorous procedures. The information of these papers is then analyzed with the assistance of the Qualitative Social Research (QSR) software package NVivo. A framework for understanding C&D WM research is created based on the analytic results. By following the framework, a bibliometric analysis of research in C&D WM is presented, followed by an in-depth literature analysis. It is found that C&D generation, reduction, and recycling are the three major topics in the discipline of C&D WM. Future research is recommended to (a) investigate C&D waste issues in wider scopes including design, maintenance and demolition, (b) develop a unified measurement for waste generation so that WM performance can be compared across various economies, and (c) enhance effectiveness of WM approaches (e.g. waste charging scheme) based on new WM concepts (e.g. Extended Producer Responsibility). In addition to the above research findings, the approach for producing the research framework can be useful references for other studies which attempt to understand the research of a given discipline.
Determinants of efficiency in the provision of municipal street-cleaning and refuse collection services.	Effective waste management systems can make critical contributions to public health, environmental sustainability and economic development. The challenge affects every person and institution in society, and measures cannot be undertaken without data collection and a quantitative analysis approach. In this paper, the two-stage double bootstrap procedure of Simar and Wilson (2007) is used to estimate the efficiency determinants of Spanish local entities in the provision of public street-cleaning and refuse collection services. The purpose is to identify factors that influence efficiency. The final sample comprised 1072 municipalities. In the first stage, robust efficiency estimates are obtained with Data Envelopment Analysis (DEA). We apply the second stage, based on a truncated-regression, to estimate the effect of a group of environmental factors on DEA estimates. The results show the existence of a significant relation between efficiency and all the variables analysed (per capita income, urban population density, the comparative index of the importance of tourism and that of the whole economic activity). We have also considered the influence of a dummy categorical variable - the political sign of the governing party - on the efficient provision of the services under study. The results from the methodology proposed show that municipalities governed by progressive parties are more efficient.
Start-up of a thermophilic anaerobic sludge digester]	Anaerobic digestion is one of the most widely-used technologies of the sludge reduction and stabilization, in which thermophilic digestion has advantage of fast stabilization. But it is lack of operation experience in China. Thus start-up of a thermophilic anaerobic sludge digester treating excess activated sludge was investigated. The digester was an internal circulation anaerobic sludge digester. It belongs to upflow reactor and its hydrodynamic conditions can be controlled by backflow biogas. A multistep strategy was applied to the start-up to enhance anaerobic bacteria to adapt the changes of temperature, reactor and treated sludge, including: to feed the digester with easily-degraded glucose to enhance bacteria reproduce at the first beginning with COD organic loading of 2.4 kg/(m3 x d); to accelerate the internal circulation; to control pH within a optimal range; to gradually increase excess sludge flow rate as well as to initiate pydrohydrolysis to enhance hydrolysis. The start-up took 63 days and when it finished, the VSS organic loading reached 1.60 kg/(m3 x d), the average VSS biogas rate was 0.51 L/g, i. e. 15.3 m3/m3 sludge (96% water content), VSS and SS removals were 60.8% and 45.8%. This shows that the strategy is valid.
Utilizing the wastewater treatment plant sludge for the production of eco-cement]	The aim of this paper was to study the effect on cement property by using of municipal sewage as additive in the process of clinker burning. Based on the standard sample P. 042. 5 from cement plant, the properties of eco-cement samples adding municipal sewage to unit raw material by 0%, 0.50%, 1.00%, 1.50%, 2.00%, 2.50% respectively and the standard sample from the cement plant were compared. According to the analysis of X-ray diffraction, microstructure, the particles size determination material change, the setting time, specific surface area, leaching toxicity and strength of cement mortar of the cement, respectively, it showed that the strength of the productions were similar to the P. 042.5 standard sample. The metal ion concentrations of Al, Fe, Ba, Mn and Ti in clinkers and raw material decreased, the initial and setting time increased, as well as the strength of the paste within the curing time of 3 days decreased with the increase of municipal sewage ratio. However, after the curing of 7 days, the strength was similar to non-sludge-mortar or even higher.
SO2 gas adsorption by modified kaolin clays: influence of previous heating and time acid treatments.	Modified kaolin clays were used as adsorbents for SO(2) gas adsorptions. The clays were heated up to 900 C previous to acid treatments with 0.5 N sulfuric acid solutions at boiling temperature during different times up to 1440 min. Equilibrium adsorption at 25 C and 0.1 MPa was carried out by using a volumetric apparatus. The samples were characterized by chemical analysis, X-ray diffraction and infrared analysis. The heating of the clays followed by acid treatment improved the adsorption capacity of the kaolin clays. The presence of amorphous silica and hydroxyl in the final products improved SO(2) adsorption capacity. Better properties for SO(2) adsorption were found in kaolin rich in not well ordered kaolinite clay mineral.
Molten salt oxidation: a versatile and promising technology for the destruction of organic-containing wastes.	Molten salt oxidation (MSO), a robust thermal but non-flame process, has the inherent capability of destroying organic constituents in wastes, while retaining inorganic and radioactive materials in situ. It has been considered as an alternative to incineration and may be a solution to many waste disposal problems. The present review first describes the history and development of MSO, as well as design and engineering details, and then focuses on reaction mechanisms and its potential applications in various wastes, including hazardous wastes, medical wastes, mixed wastes, and energetic materials. Finally, the current status of and prospects for the MSO process and directions for future research are considered.
Emissions credits: opportunity to promote integrated nitrogen management in the wastewater sector.	Relatively little attention has been paid to integrating gaseous N(2)O generated by wastewater treatment into overall reactive nitrogen (Nr) pollution reduction. We propose that there is potential for substantial reductions in N(2)O emissions through the addition of denitrification processes to existing nitrifying wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs), which are designed to lower ammonia levels but currently do not reduce overall Nr. In addition to providing the benefit of reducing total nitrogen concentrations in the effluent, this kind of WWTP upgrade has been demonstrated to reduce energy consumption and fossil CO(2) emissions. We show that the creation of a greenhouse gas (GHG) crediting system for the wastewater sector could provide a potentially sizable economic incentive on the order of $10 million to $600 million per year in the U.S. for upgrading of nitrifying WWTPs that results in N(2)O reductions, with an ancillary benefit of another $30-100 million per year from electricity savings. Even if biological nitrogen removal (BNR) treatment were mandated by existing and future water quality regulations, a GHG crediting system could still be created to promote BNR design and operation that drive N(2)O emissions below a baseline to even lower levels. In this case GHG credits could offset around 0.5-70% of the operating and maintenance cost for the BNR.
Management of food industry waste employing vermicomposting technology.	This paper reports the vermicomposting of food industry sludges (FIS) mixed with different organic wastes employing Eisenia fetida. A total of 10 vermicomposting units containing different wastes combinations were established. After 15 weeks significant increase in total nitrogen (N(total)) (60-214%), total available phosphorous (P(avail)) (35.8-69.6%), total sodium (Na(total)) (39-95%), and total potassium (K(total)) (43.7-74.1%), while decrease in pH (8.45-19.7%), total organic carbon (OC(total)) (28.4-36.1%) and C:N ratio (61.2-77.8%) was recorded. The results indicated that FIS may be converted into good quality manure by vermicomposting if spiked with other organic wastes in appropriate quantities.
Radiotolerance of phosphatases of a Serratia sp.: potential for the use of this organism in the biomineralization of wastes containing radionuclides.	Aqueous wastes from nuclear fuel reprocessing present special problems of radiotoxicity of the active species. Cells of Serratia sp. were found previously to accumulate high levels of hydrogen uranyl phosphate (HUP) via the activity of a phosphatase enzyme. Uranium is of relatively low radiotoxicity whereas radionuclide fission products such as (90)Sr and (137)Cs are highly radiotoxic. These radionuclides can be co-crystallized, held within the bio-HUP "host" lattice on the bacterial cells and thereby removed from contaminated solution, depending on continued phosphatase activity. Radiostability tests using a commercial (60)Co -source showed that while cell viability and activity of purified phosphatase were lost within a few hours on irradiation, whole-cell phosphatase retained 80% of the initial activity, even after loss of cell culturability, which was increased to 100% by the incorporation of mercaptoethanol as an example radioprotectant, beyond an accumulated dose of >1.3 MGy. Using this co-crystallization approach (without mercaptoethanol) (137)Cs(+) and (85)Sr(2+) were removed from a simulated waste selectively against a 33-fold excess of Na(+).
Capacitated location of collection sites in an urban waste management system.	Urban waste management is becoming an increasingly complex task, absorbing a huge amount of resources, and having a major environmental impact. The design of a waste management system consists in various activities, and one of these is related to the location of waste collection sites. In this paper, we propose an integer programming model that helps decision makers in choosing the sites where to locate the unsorted waste collection bins in a residential town, as well as the capacities of the bins to be located at each collection site. This model helps in assessing tactical decisions through constraints that force each collection area to be capacitated enough to fit the expected waste to be directed to that area, while taking into account Quality of Service constraints from the citizens' point of view. Moreover, we propose an effective constructive heuristic approach whose aim is to provide a good solution quality in an extremely reduced computational time. Computational results on data related to the city of Nard, in the south of Italy, show that both exact and heuristic approaches provide consistently better solutions than that currently implemented, resulting in a lower number of activated collection sites, and a lower number of bins to be used.
Production of cellulases from Aspergillus niger NS-2 in solid state fermentation on agricultural and kitchen waste residues.	Various agricultural and kitchen waste residues were assessed for their ability to support the production of a complete cellulase system by Aspergillus niger NS-2 in solid state fermentation. Untreated as well as acid and base-pretreated substrates including corn cobs, carrot peelings, composite, grass, leaves, orange peelings, pineapple peelings, potato peelings, rice husk, sugarcane bagasse, saw dust, wheat bran, wheat straw, simply moistened with water, were found to be well suited for the organism's growth, producing good amounts of cellulases after 96 h without the supplementation of additional nutritional sources. Yields of cellulases were higher in alkali treated substrates as compared to acid treated and untreated substrates except in wheat bran. Of all the substrates tested, wheat bran appeared to be the best suited substrate producing appreciable yields of CMCase, FPase and -glucosidase at the levels of 310, 17 and 33 U/g dry substrate respectively. An evaluation of various environmental parameters demonstrated that appreciable levels of cellulases could be produced over a wide range of temperatures (20-50 C) and pH levels (3.0-8.0) with a 1:1.5 to 1:1.75 substrate to moisture ratio.
LCA for household waste management when planning a new urban settlement.	When planning for a new urban settlement, industrial ecology tools like scenario building and life cycle assessment can be used to assess the environmental quality of different infrastructure solutions. In Trondheim, a new greenfield settlement with carbon-neutral ambitions is being planned and five different scenarios for the waste management system of the new settlement have been compared. The results show small differences among the scenarios, however, some benefits from increased source separation of paper and metal could be found. The settlement should connect to the existing waste management system of the city, and not resort to decentralised waste treatment or recovery methods. However, as this is an urban development project with ambitious goals for lifestyle changes, effort should be put into research and initiatives for proactive waste prevention and reuse issues.
Characteristics of penicillin bacterial residue.	During the production of penicillin, a mass of waste bacterial residue is generated. In the past, the bacterial residues have been used for food additives. Unfortunately, doubts of their suitability as a feedstock have been raised because of the small amount of antibiotics and the degradation products remaining in the bacterial residues. So, penicillin bacterial residue is one of the hazardous wastes. Therefore, penicillin bacterial residue should be managed in accordance with the hazardous waste. To get a right method, the penicillin bacterial residue was characterized.
Applying econometrics to the carbon dioxide "control knob".	This paper tests various propositions underlying claims that observed global temperature change is mostly attributable to anthropogenic noncondensing greenhouse gases, and that although water vapour is recognized to be a dominant contributor to the overall greenhouse gas (GHG) effect, that effect is merely a "feedback" from rising temperatures initially resulting only from "non-condensing" GHGs and not at all from variations in preexisting naturally caused atmospheric water vapour (i.e., [H(2)O]). However, this paper shows that "initial radiative forcing" is not exclusively attributable to forcings from noncondensing GHG, both because atmospheric water vapour existed before there were any significant increases in GHG concentrations or temperatures and also because there is no evidence that such increases have produced measurably higher [H(2)O]. The paper distinguishes between forcing and feedback impacts of water vapour and contends that it is the primary forcing agent, at much more than 50% of the total GHG gas effect. That means that controlling atmospheric carbon dioxide is unlikely to be an effective "control knob" as claimed by Lacis et al. (2010).
Decomposition of dichlorobenzene in a dielectric barrier discharge.	This paper presents a decomposition study of 1,2-dichlorobenzene (DCB) using a dielectric barrier discharge (DBD). The discussion is focused on the effects of variations of carrier gases, DCB concentrations and input voltages on the decomposition performance. The DCB conversion was conducted inside a cylindrical reactor consists of silver film as the outside electrode and a spring coil as the inside electrode. Two carrier gases, i.e. air and nitrogen, were introduced to the reactor at a total flow rate of 500 mL/min with DCB concentrations of 100, 300 and 500 ppm. Gaseous products, before and after plasma treatment, were analysed by a gas chromatography and FT-IR spectroscopy, and the consumed power was calculated from Lissajous' figure analysis. In order to improve the decomposition performance, various TiO2-supported catalysts were employed.
Nitrogen removal and simultaneous nitrification and denitrification in a fluidized bed step-feed process.	For urban wastewater treatment, we conducted a novel four-stage step-feed wastewater treatment system combined with a fluidized bed laboratory experiment to investigate chemical oxygen demand (COD), NH(4+)-N, and total nitrogen (TN) removal performance. The removal rates of COD, NH(4+)-N and TN were 88.2%, 95.7%, and 86.4% with effluent concentrations of COD, NH(4+)-N and TN less than 50, 8, and 10 mg/L, respectively. Biomass and bacterial activities were also measured, with results showing more nitrobacteria in the activated sludge than in the biofilm; however, bacterial activity of the biofilm biomass and the activated sludge were similar. Nitrogen concentrations during the process were also detected, with simultaneous nitrification and denitrification found to be obvious.
Radiological and hygienic approaches to solving the problem of environmental safety of radioactive waste storages]	The paper presents general approaches to solving the problems associated with the radioecological safety of radioactive waste (RAW) storages. It considers the influence of climatic factors on the possible release of radionuclides into the environment. The authors have made as follows: analysis of the significance of main scenarios for radionuclide release into the environment and the natural and climatic conditions of the existing areas of near-surface RAW storages in the Russian Federation; conditional zoning of the Russian Federation according to the balance of atmospheric precipitation. The zoning of RAW storage locations is of importance for choosing the likely scenarios of radionuclide migrations.
Treatment of mixtures of toluene and n-propanol vapours in a compost-woodchip-based biofilter.	The present work describes the biofiltration of mixture of n-propanol (as a model hydrophilic volatile organic compound (VOC)) and toluene (as a model hydrophobic VOC) in a biofilter packed with a compost-woodchip mixture. Initially, the biofilter was fed with toluene vapours at loadings up to 175 g m(-3) h(-1) and removal efficiencies of 70%-99% were observed. The biofilter performance when removing mixtures of toluene and n-propanol reached elimination capacities of up to 67g(toluene) m(-3) h(-1) and 85 g(n-propanol) m(-3) h(-1) with removal efficiencies of 70%-100% for toluene and essentially 100% for n-propanol. The presence of high n-propanol loading negatively affected the toluene removal; however, n-propanol removal was not affected by the presence of toluene and was effectively removed in the biofilter despite high toluene loadings. A model for toluene and n-propanol biofiltration could predict the cross-inhibition effect of n-propanol on toluene removal.
Adsorptive removal of aniline by granular activated carbon from aqueous solutions with catechol and resorcinol.	In the present paper, the removal of aniline by adsorption process onto granular activated carbon (GAC) is reported from aqueous solutions containing catechol and resorcinol separately. The Taguchi experimental design was applied to study the effect of such parameters as the initial component concentrations (C(0,i)) of two solutes (aniline and catechol or aniline and resorcinol) in the solution, temperature (T), adsorbent dosage (m) and contact time (t). The L27 orthogonal array consisting of five parameters each with three levels was used to determine the total amount of solutes adsorbed on GAC (q(tot), mmol/g) and the signal-to-noise ratio. The analysis of variance (ANOVA) was used to determine the optimum conditions. Under these conditions, the ANOVA shows that m is the most important parameter in the adsorption process. The most favourable levels of process parameters were T = 303 K, m = 10 g/l and t = 660 min for both the systems, qtot values in the confirmation experiments carried out at optimum conditions were 0.73 and 0.95 mmol/g for aniline-catechol and aniline-resorcinol systems, respectively.
Process kinetics of an activated-sludge reactor system treating poultry slaughterhouse wastewater.	The principal objective was to generate the essential kinetic parameters for model simulation and operation management of an activated-sludge reactor (ASR) system treating poultry slaughterhouse wastewater. By varying four different mean cell residence times (theta(c) = 4.6-24.3 d), the ASR system (26 degrees C) removed effectively 93.5%-97.2% of chemical oxygen demand (COD) from wastewater. Ifa high COD removal efficiency and a low effluent volatile suspended solids (VSS) concentration are of great concern, a theta(c) of 15-24 d or a food to microorganism (F/M) ratio of 0.3-0.7 kg COD/kg VSS-d is suggested; if resource sustainability and enhanced operation of the ASR system are of great concern, a theta(c) of 9 d or an F/M ratio of 0.9 kg COD/kg VSS-d is suggested. The COD residual concentrations and COD removal efficiencies calculated by using the Monod model agreed well with the experimental results. When the parameters k and Ks (deltaP/P) were respectively varied from -100% to +100%, the parametric sensitivity analysis showed that the COD residual concentration change (deltaS/S) was highly sensitive to k in the deltaP/P range between 0% and -40%, causing a marked increase in COD residual concentration.
PAHs in wastewater: removal efficiency in a conventional wastewater treatment plant and comparison with model predictions.	Polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) are very hazardous compounds and, owing to their lipophilicity, they can easily cross biological membranes and accumulate inside organisms, causing damage to the genetic material. The scientific interest in PAHs is related to their demonstrated or supposed genotoxicity (cancer-causing characteristics of B[alpha]Py and dB[alpha, h] first suspected in the 1930s). This study tried to detect the presence of PAHs in wastewater and to estimate their removal efficiency in a conventional wastewater treatment plant (Varese Olona). The PAHs' presence in municipal wastewater sewage system and in the WWTP effluent was determined by a specific analytical campaign, and afterwards a comparison between observed removal efficiency and FATE model (US-EPA) predictions was carried out.
Potential of different white rot fungi to decolourize textile azo dyes in the absence of external carbon source.	The decolourization of azo dyes by various white rot fungi was studied in the absence of an external carbon source. Although the decolourization abilities of strains used in this study are well documented, these strains have not been studied or compared for their decolourization abilities in the absence of an external carbon source. Decolourization of dyes was also studied in the presence of the external carbon source glucose. Daedalea flavida and Phanerochaete chrysosporium were able to decolourize the dyes in the absence of glucose. D. flavida exhibited a better ability to decolourize the dyes as compared with P. chrysosporium in the absence of glucose. Culture conditions were optimized to enhance the decolourization ability of D. flavida. Shaking of cultures inhibited the decolourization of Amaranth by D. flavida. The optimum culture conditions were 36 degrees C and pH 5.5 for decolourization of Amaranth in a stationary culture condition. We achieved 99% decolourization of Amaranth in 5 days under optimum conditions in the presence of glucose. D. flavida also decolourized the Amaranth with equal efficiency in the absence of glucose. To the best of the authors' knowledge, this is the first paper reporting the decolourization of dyes in the absence of an external carbon source by D. flavida.
Anaerobic/aerobic/coagulation treatment of leachate from a municipal solid wastes incineration plant.	Municipal solid wastes (MSW) in China contain a large fraction of food waste and have high moisture content. MSW is usually held in waste pits for a few days to reduce moisture content before combustion in an incineration plant. In this study, leachate from the Tongxing MSW incineration plant was characterized and a combined anaerobic-aerobic-coagulation system was proposed and investigated. Optimal operation conditions for the processes in the proposed system were identified. The performance of the treatment process was assessed by monitoring the removal of organic matter (COD) and ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N). The results showed that the optimal volume ratio of leachate and sewage was 1:6. During the initial anaerobic treatment, 62.1% COD and 49.5% ammonia were removed (optimal reaction time: 20 h, hydraulic retention time: 4 d). During the subsequent aerobic treatment (optimal aeration time of 14 h, dissolved oxygen of4 mg/L), up to 94.0% COD and 89.4% ammonia could be removed. The coagulation process served as a polishing step. The optimal dose of Fe2(SO4)3 was 600 mg/L at a pH of 5.0. The COD and ammonia concentrations in the final effluent after the combined treatment were 138 mg/L and 22 mg/L, respectively, which meet the Chinese integrated wastewater discharge standards.
Yeast performance in wastewater treatment: case study of Rhodotorula mucilaginosa.	The ability of Rhodotorula mucilaginosa to degrade some phenolic compounds and to grow on olive mill wastewater (OMW) is investigated. R. mucilaginosa isolated from OMW was molecularly identified using 18S RNA sequencing. The biodegradation of six phenolic compounds was studied at an initial concentration of 1 g l(-1). The isolated yeast exhibited a complete degradation of protocatechuic, vanillic and p-coumaric acids and tyrosol. In addition, it reduced 56% and 44% of gallic acid and catechol, respectively. Protocatechuic acid, vanillic acid and p-coumaric acid kinetic degradation showed a simple order equation and the growth rate varied from 0.05 h(-1) to 0.08 h(-1), while tyrosol and catechol degradation fitted a second-degree equation. With OMW as culture medium, R. mucilaginosa was able to reduce 38.38%, 47.69% and 56.91% of chemical oxygen demand (COD) and 5.84%, 27.89% and 34.81% of phenols, respectively, at initial COD concentrations 26,700, 14,400 and 6500 mg l(-1). The use of such red pigmented yeast would present a double interest: first it would purify OMW and, second, an antioxidant would be produced at the same time, having antioxidant properties.
Decommissioning of the High Flux Beam Reactor at Brookhaven National Laboratory.	The High Flux Beam Reactor (HFBR) at the Brookhaven National Laboratory was a heavy-water cooled and moderated reactor that achieved criticality on 31 October 1965. It operated at a power level of 40 mega-watts. An equipment upgrade in 1982 allowed operations at 60 mega-watts. After a 1989 reactor shutdown to reanalyze safety impact of a hypothetical loss of coolant accident, the reactor was restarted in 1991 at 30 mega-watts. The HFBR was shut down in December 1996 for routine maintenance and refueling. At that time, a leak of tritiated water was identified by routine sampling of ground water from wells located adjacent to the reactor's spent fuel pool. The reactor remained shut down for almost 3 y for safety and environmental reviews. In November 1999, the United States Department of Energy decided to permanently shut down the HFBR. The decontamination and decommissioning of the HFBR complex, consisting of multiple structures and systems to operate and maintain the reactor, were complete in 2009 after removing and shipping off all the control rod blades. The emptied and cleaned HFBR dome, which still contains the irradiated reactor vessel is presently under 24/7 surveillance for safety. Details of the HFBR's cleanup performed during 1999-2009, to allow the BNL facilities to be re-accessed by the public, will be described in the paper.
Health impact assessment in the UK planning system: the possibilities and limits of community engagement.	This paper explores the use of health impact assessment (HIA) as a means of facilitating community engagement in spatial planning. The paper discusses the background to the development of HIA as a tool for assessing the likely impact of policies and wider changes on health with a view to building those into planning and decision-making, and describes the evolution of HIA into more participatory forms. It then goes on to describe a case-study of plans for a waste incinerator in an inner-city area in the UK, where HIA was used in response to community concerns about the development as a means of building in the views of local people to the decision-making around the plan. We describe in detail how the HIA was conducted and additional research undertaken within a timescale set by the planning processes. We discuss the difficulties involved in conducting any kind of research-based HIA so rapidly and in a situation of multiple, competing stakeholder interests. We argue that although the HIA failed to influence the final decisions in this particular instance it does, nonetheless, provide a model for how to create 'knowledge spaces' in which different perspectives and information can be brought around the table to create more democratic approaches to planning for waste. 
Quantifying capital goods for collection and transport of waste.	The capital goods for collection and transport of waste were quantified for different types of containers (plastic containers, cubes and steel containers) and an 18-tonnes compacting collection truck. The data were collected from producers and vendors of the bins and the truck. The service lifetime and the capacity of the goods were also assessed. Environmental impact assessment of the production of the capital goods revealed that, per tonne of waste handled, the truck had the largest contribution followed by the steel container. Large high density polyethylene (HDPE) containers had the lowest impact per tonne of waste handled. The impact of producing the capital goods for waste collection and transport cannot be neglected as the capital goods dominate (>85%) the categories human-toxicity (non-cancer and cancer), ecotoxicity, resource depletion and aquatic eutrophication, but also play a role (>13%) within the other impact categories when compared with the impacts from combustion of fuels for the collection and transport of the waste, when a transport distance of 25 km was assumed.
Incorporating waste into an experimental school prototype: lessons regarding materials reclamation opportunities.	This article presents lessons learned from a design project that explored the possibility of incorporating waste into the design of a school prototype. The authors worked with professional architects, a waste artist, environmental scientists and local waste operators to uncover new uses and applications for discarded items. As a result, bottles, aluminium cans, reclaimed doors, crushed concrete and second-hand bricks, etc. were identified, explored and integrated into the architectural design. This article serves as a catalyst that advocates the use of reclaimed materials in the field of design and planning. In particular, it highlights the challenges and issues that need to be addressed in carrying out design work with waste. Designers and practitioners interested in minimizing waste generation by proposing the use of reclaimed materials will find this article useful.
Regional hospital solid waste assessment using the evidential reasoning approach.	Hospital solid waste assessment is regularly characterized by a large number of known criteria that are both qualitative and quantitative in nature. The qualitative criteria can only be assessed by human judgments, which predictably engage a variety of uncertainties such as fuzziness and ignorance. Therefore, hospital solid waste assessments need to be analyzed and modeled using approaches that can handle uncertainties. The evidential reasoning (ER) approach can be utilized for such an analysis. In this paper, perhaps for the first time, the ER approach is applied to regional hospital solid waste assessment. The assessment criteria are characterized by a set of assessment grades assumed to be commonly exclusive and communally exhaustive. All assessment information, incomplete or complete, qualitative or quantitative, and imprecise or precise, are modeled using a cohesive belief structure. The ER approach will be used to aggregate multiple hospital solid waste assessment criteria, resulting in distributed assessment for each alternative. The proposed methodology is applied for regional hospital solid waste assessment in the province of Khuzestan, Iran.
Methanotrophs and their applications in environment treatment: a review]	Methanotrophs can oxidize methane, playing an important role in regulating methane emission, and gaining increasing attention by the researchers around the world. Two biological pathways are involved in methane oxidation, i.e., anaerobic oxidation and aerobic oxidation, which are governed by anaerobic and aerobic methanotrophs, respectively. In this paper, the research advances about methanotrophs were summarized, with the focus on the phylogeny and taxonomy of methanotrophs, the key enzymes responsible for the aerobic oxidation of methane, the microorganisms involved in the anaerobic oxidation of methane, and the mechanisms of microbial methane consumption. The application prospects of the two methane oxidizers in greenhouse gases removal, pollutants degradation, biological denitrification, and recovery of metals and sulfur compounds were also analyzed.
Awareness of biomedical waste management among dental professionals and auxiliary staff in Amritsar, India.	The aim of this study was to determine awareness of biomedical waste (BMW) management policies and practices among dental professionals and auxiliary staff in a dental hospital/clinics in Amritsar, India, to inform the development of future policies for effective implementation of BMW rules.
An attempt at quantifying factors that affect efficiency in the management of solid waste produced by commercial businesses in the city of Tshwane, South Africa.	The objective was to investigate factors that affect the efficient management of solid waste produced by commercial businesses operating in the city of Pretoria, South Africa.
Mechanism and performance of a membrane bioreactor for treatment of toluene vapors]	The performance of a membrane bioreactor for treatment of toluene as a model pollutant is presented. Effects of toluene inlet concentration, residence time, spray density and pH of liquid phase on the toluene removal rate were evaluated. The experimental results showed that the toluene removal efficiency reached 99%. The optimal pH, residence time and spray density were 7.2, 6.4 s and 2.5 m3 x (m2 x h)(-1), respectively. The gas-phase biodegradation intermediate products were acetaldehyde acid (C2H2O3) and vinyl formic acid (C3H4O2), which were identified by means of gas chromatography/mass spectrometry (GC/MS). The mechanism of toluene degradation using a membrane bioreactor can be described as the combination of mass transfer from hollow fiber membrane to biofilm and biological degradation. Toluene (C6H5CH3) and oxygen diffused from the gas phase to the wet layer of the biofilm and were then consumed by the microbial communities. Toluene was oxidized to the intermediate organic products such as acetaldehyde acid (C2H2O3) and vinyl formic acid (C3H4O2), and the intermediate products were then converted to CO2 and H2O through continuous biological oxidation reactions.
Distribution of copper, silver and gold during thermal treatment with brominated flame retardants.	The growing consumption of electric and electronic equipment results in creating an increasing amount of electronic waste. The most economically and environmentally advantageous methods for the treatment and recycling of waste electric and electronic equipment (WEEE) are the thermal techniques such as direct combustion, co-combustion with plastic wastes, pyrolysis and gasification. Nowadays, this kind of waste is mainly thermally treated in incinerators (e.g. rotary kilns) to decompose the plastics present, and to concentrate metals in bottom ash. The concentrated metals (e.g. copper, precious metals) can be supplied as a secondary raw material to metal smelters, while the pyrolysis of plastics allows the recovery of fuel gases, volatilising agents and, eventually, energy. Indeed, WEEE, such as a printed circuit boards (PCBs) usually contains brominated flame retardants (BFRs). From these materials, hydrobromic acid (HBr) is formed as a product of their thermal decomposition. In the present work, the bromination was studied of copper, silver and gold by HBr, originating from BFRs, such as Tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) and Tetrabromobisphenol A-Tetrabromobisophenol A diglycidyl ether (TTDE) polymer; possible volatilization of the bromides formed was monitored using a thermo-gravimetric analyzer (TGA) and a laboratory-scale furnace for treating samples of metals and BFRs under an inert atmosphere and at a wide range of temperatures. The results obtained indicate that up to about 50% of copper and silver can evolve from sample residues in the form of volatile CuBr and AgBr above 600 and 1000C, respectively. The reactions occur in the molten resin phase simultaneously with the decomposition of the brominated resin. Gold is resistant to HBr and remains unchanged in the residue. 
The changing character of household waste in the Czech Republic between 1999 and 2009 as a function of home heating methods.	The authors of this paper report on the changing character of household waste, in the Czech Republic between 1999 and 2009 in households differentiated by their heating methods. The data presented are the result of two projects, financed by the Czech Ministry of Environment, which were undertaken during this time period with the aim of focusing on the waste characterisation and complete analysis of the physicochemical properties of the household waste. In the Czech Republic, the composition of household waste varies significantly between different types of households based on the methods of home heating employed. For the purposes of these studies, the types of homes were divided into three categories - urban, mixed and rural. Some of the biggest differences were found in the quantities of certain subsample categories, especially fine residue (matter smaller than 20 mm), between urban households with central heating and rural households that primarily employ solid fuel such coal or wood. The use of these solid fuels increases the fraction of the finer categories because of the higher presence of ash. Heating values of the residual household waste from the three categories varied very significantly, ranging from 6.8 MJ/kg to 14.2 MJ/kg in 1999 and from 6.8 MJ/kg to 10.5 MJ/kg in 2009 depending on the type of household and season. The same factors affect moisture of residual household waste which varied from 23.2% to 33.3%. The chemical parameters also varied significantly, especially in the quantities of Tl, As, Cr, Zn, Fe and Mn, which were higher in rural households. Because knowledge about the properties of household waste, as well as its physicochemical characteristics, is very important not only for future waste management, but also for the prediction of the behaviour and influence of the waste on the environment as the country continues to streamline its legislation to the European Union's solid waste mandates, the results of these studies were employed by the Czech Ministry of Environment to optimise the national waste management strategy.
Qualitative and quantitative determination of heavy metals in waste cellular phones.	Twenty four waste cellular phones, manufactured between 2002 and 2011, were selected in order to determine the total heavy metal content in each of their parts (printed circuit boards (PCBs), plastic housing (PH) and liquid crystal display monitors (LCDs)) and compare the results with the permissible limits set by the 2003 Directive on Restriction of Hazardous Substances (RoHS). All the selected samples were pulverized and digested with strong acids. Inductively coupled plasma-mass spectrometry was used to measure the heavy metal content in each sample. The results revealed that concentration levels of the examined heavy metals were higher in PCBs, followed by PH and LCD in that particular order (PCB>PH>LCD). With the exception of Pb and Cr present in PCBs of mobile phones released before the year 2006, all the other metal concentrations were according to the Directive. Concentration levels of Cd, Hg were lower than the permissible limits set by the EU, either before or after the validity of the 2003 RoHS Directive. Considering their significant heavy metal content, coupled with their large quantities produced worldwide in an annual rate, waste cellular phones need to be treated under an environmentally sound management scheme, prioritizing recycling and at the same time eliminating the possibility of any harm. 
A preliminary investigation into the physical and chemical properties of biomass ashes used as aggregate fillers for bituminous mixtures.	Fly and bottom ashes are the main by-products arising from the combustion of solid biomass. Since the production of energy from this source is increasing, the processing and disposal of the resulting ashes has become an environmental and economic issue. Such ashes are of interest as a construction material because they are composed of very fine particles similar to fillers normally employed in bituminous and cementitious mixtures. This research investigates the potential use of ash from biomass as filler in bituminous mixtures. The morphological, physical and chemical characteristics of 21 different ashes and two traditional fillers (calcium carbonate and "recovered" plant filler) were evaluated and discussed. Leaching tests, performed in order to quantify the release of pollutants, revealed that five ashes do not comply with the Italian environmental re-use limits. Experimental results show a wide range of values for almost all the investigated properties and a low correlation with biomass type in terms of origin and chemical composition. Furthermore, sieving and milling processes were found to improve the properties of the raw material in terms of grading and sample porosity. The effectiveness of these treatments and the low content of organic matter and harmful fines suggest that most of the biomass ashes investigated may be regarded as potential replacements for natural filler in bituminous mixtures. 
Urban infrastructure and natural resource flows: evidence from Cape Town.	The current economic development trajectory is fundamentally unsustainable. However, decoupling economic growth from excessive natural resource consumption can be adopted as a means to deviate from this current trajectory. Decoupling enables economic growth and human development through non-material growth, without the environmental and social casualties of the incumbent model. Cities are the current and future context for socio development as well as a significant part of the cause and solution to sustainability challenges. Cities account for the majority of production and consumption activities leading to environmental degradation, and they are also the primary location for economic, institutional, and human capital. Innovative responses to global challenges generally emerge during the interaction between these kinds of capital. This paper presents the case of three of Cape Town's resource flows namely; electricity, water and solid waste, as mediated by networked urban infrastructure, to demonstrate the possibility of urban scale decoupling. Conclusions indicate that while decoupling can occur at the city scale, it is unlikely to be sufficient for the realization of sustainable urban development. Purposive interventions are therefore critical for successful, sustainable urban transitions. 
Material resources, energy, and nutrient recovery from waste: are waste refineries the solution for the future?	Waste refineries focusing on multiple outputs of material resources, energy carriers, and nutrients may potentially provide more sustainable utilization of waste resources than traditional waste technologies. This consequential life cycle assessment (LCA) evaluated the environmental performance of a Danish waste refinery solution against state-of-the-art waste technology alternatives (incineration, mechanical-biological treatment (MBT), and landfilling). In total, 252 scenarios were evaluated, including effects from source-segregation, waste composition, and energy conversion pathway efficiencies. Overall, the waste refinery provided global warming (GW) savings comparable with efficient incineration, MBT, and bioreactor landfilling technologies. The main environmental benefits from waste refining were a potential for improved phosphorus recovery (about 85%) and increased electricity production (by 15-40% compared with incineration), albeit at the potential expense of additional toxic emissions to soil. Society's need for the outputs from waste, i.e., energy products (electricity vs transport fuels) and resources (e.g., phosphorus), and the available waste composition were found decisive for the selection of future technologies. On the basis of the results, it is recommended that a narrow focus on GW aspects should be avoided as most waste technologies may allow comparable performance. Rather, other environmental aspects such as resource recovery and toxic emissions should receive attention in the future. 
The effects of BaSO loading on OPC cementing system for encapsulation of BaSO scale from oil and gas industry.	The BaSO4 scales obtained from piping decontamination from oil and gas industries are most often classified as low level radioactive waste. These wastes could be immobilised by stable cement matrix to provide higher safety of handling, transportation, storage and disposal. However, the information available for the effects of the basic formulation such as waste loading on the fundamental properties is still limited. The present study investigated the effect of BaSO4 loading and water content on the properties of OPC-BaSO4 systems containing fine BaSO4 powder and coarse granules. The BaSO4 with different particle size had a marked effect on the compressive strength due to their different effects on hydration products formed. Introduction of fine BaSO4 powder resulted in an increased formation of CaCO3 in the system, which significantly contributed to the compressive strength of the products. Amount of water was important to control the CaCO3 formation, and water to cement ratio of 0.53 was found to be a good level to maintain a low porosity of the products both for fine BaSO4 powder and coarse BaSO4 granule. BaSO4 loading of up to 60 wt% has been achieved satisfying the minimum compressive strength of 5 MPa required for the radioactive wasteforms.
Organic waste treatment by earthworm vermicomposting and larvae bioconversion: review and perspective]	There is a growing attention on the environmental pollution and loss of potential regeneration of resources due to the poor handling of organic wastes, while earthworm vermicomposting and larvae bioconversion are well-known as two promising biotechnologies for sustainable wastes treatments, where earthworms or housefly larvae are employed to convert the organic wastes into humus like material, together with value-added worm product. Taken earthworm ( Eisenia foetida) and housefly larvae ( Musca domestica) as model species, this work illustrates fundamental definition and principle, operational process, technical mechanism, main factors, and bio-chemical features of organisms of these two technologies. Integrated with the physical and biochemical mechanisms, processes of biomass conversion, intestinal digestion, enzyme degradation and microflora decomposition are comprehensively reviewed on waste treatments with purposes of waste reduction, value-addition, and stabilization.
Fate of lead oxide during thermal treatment with tetrabromobisphenol A.	In this paper, the bromination reaction between lead oxide and hydrogen bromide originating from the thermal decomposition of tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA), under inert and oxidizing atmospheres, was investigated, using a laboratory-scale furnace. The results obtained under inert conditions indicated that bromination of PbO proceeded simultaneously with debromination of TBBPA, with an average effectiveness of 69% (max. 80%). Volatilization of the formed PbBr2 began at 315C, intensified at 750C, and reached 98% at 850C. The formed organic char served as a source of carbon for reduction of the unreacted lead oxide to metallic lead in the range 315-750C. Additional experiments conducted at selected temperatures under slightly oxidizing (5 vol% O2) and quasi-atmospheric (20 vol% O2) conditions showed no significant effects on bromination-evaporation of lead in the studied mixture. However, in isothermal treatment under quasi-atmospheric oxygen levels, complete vaporization of the formed lead bromide was obtained at a temperature of only 650C.
Degradation of polychlorinated biphenyls using mesoporous iron-based spinels.	A series of mesoporous iron-based spinel materials were synthesized to degrade polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), with CB-209 being used as a model compound. The materials were characterized by X-ray powder diffraction (XRD), pore structure analysis, and X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). A comparison of the dechlorination efficiencies (DEs) of the materials revealed that NiFe2O4 had the highest DE, followed by Fe3O4. Newly produced polychlorinated biphenyls, chlorinated benzenes, hydroxyl species and organic acids were detected by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry, high performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry and ion chromatograph. Identification of the intermediate products indicates that three degradation pathways, hydrodechlorination, the breakage of CC bridge bond and oxidative reaction, accompanied by one combination reaction, are competitively occurring over the iron-based spinels. The relative amounts of produced three NoCB isomers were illustrated by the CCl BDEs of CB-209 at meta-, para- and ortho-positions, and their energy gap between HOMO and LUMO. The consumption of the reactive oxygen species caused by the transformation of Fe3O4 into Fe2O3 in the Fe3O4 reaction system, and the existence of the highly reactive O2(-) species in the NiFe2O4 reaction system, could provide a reason why the oxidation reaction was more favored over NiFe2O4 than Fe3O4.
Recent development in the treatment of oily sludge from petroleum industry: a review.	Oily sludge is one of the most significant solid wastes generated in the petroleum industry. It is a complex emulsion of various petroleum hydrocarbons (PHCs), water, heavy metals, and solid particles. Due to its hazardous nature and increased generation quantities around the world, the effective treatment of oily sludge has attracted widespread attention. In this review, the origin, characteristics, and environmental impacts of oily sludge were introduced. Many methods have been investigated for dealing with PHCs in oily sludge either through oil recovery or sludge disposal, but little attention has been paid to handle its various heavy metals. These methods were discussed by dividing them into oil recovery and sludge disposal approaches. It was recognized that no single specific process can be considered as a panacea since each method is associated with different advantages and limitations. Future efforts should focus on the improvement of current technologies and the combination of oil recovery with sludge disposal in order to comply with both resource reuse recommendations and environmental regulations. The comprehensive examination of oily sludge treatment methods will help researchers and practitioners to have a good understanding of both recent developments and future research directions.
Fungal and enzymatic treatment of mature municipal landfill leachate.	The aim of our study was to evaluate biotreatability of mature municipal landfill leachate by using white rot fungus and its extracellular enzymes. Leachates were collected in one active and one closed regional municipal landfill. Both chosen landfills were operating for many years and the leachates generated there were polluted by organic and inorganic compounds. The white rot fungus Dichomitus squalens was able to grow in the mature leachate from the closed landfill and as it utilizes present organic matter as a source of carbon, the results were showing 60% of DOC and COD removal and decreased toxicity to the bacterium Aliivibrio fischeri. On the other hand, growth of the fungus was inhibited in the presence of the leachate from the active landfill. However, when the leachate was introduced to a crude enzyme filtrate containing extracellular ligninolytic enzymes, removal levels of COD and DOC reached 61% and 44%, respectively. Furthermore, the treatment led to detoxification of the leachate to the bacterium Aliivibrio fischeri and to reduction of toxicity (42%) to the plant Sinapis alba. Fungal and enzymatic treatment seems to be a promising biological approach for treatment of mature landfill leachates and their application should be further investigated. 
Development of an immobilization process for heavy metal containing galvanic solid wastes by use of sodium silicate and sodium tetraborate.	Heavy metal containing sludges from wastewater treatment plants of electroplating industries are designated as hazardous waste since their improper disposal pose high risks to environment. In this research, heavy metal containing sludges of electroplating industries in an organized industrial zone of Istanbul/Turkey were used as real-sample model for development of an immobilization process with sodium tetraborate and sodium silicate as additives. The washed sludges have been precalcined in a rotary furnace at 900C and fritted at three different temperatures of 850C, 900C and 950C. The amounts of additives were adjusted to provide different acidic and basic oxide ratios in the precalcined sludge-additive mixtures. Leaching tests were conducted according to the toxicity characteristic leaching procedure Method 1311 of US-EPA. X-ray diffraction (XRD), X-ray fluorescence (XRF), scanning electron microscope-energy dispersive spectrometer (SEM-EDS) and flame atomic absorption spectroscopy (FAAS) have been used to determine the physical and chemical changes in the products. Calculated oxide molar ratios in the precalcined sludge-additive mixtures and their leaching results have been used to optimize the stabilization process and to determine the intervals of the required oxide ratios which provide end-products resistant to leaching procedure of US-EPA. The developed immobilization-process provides lower energy consumption than sintering-vitrification processes of glass-ceramics.
Evaluation of clay aggregate biotrickling filters for treatment of gaseous emissions from intensive pig production.	Treatment of ventilation air from livestock production by biological airfiltration has emerged as a cost-effective technology for reduction of emissions of odorants and ammonia. Volatile sulfur compounds from livestock production include H2S and methanethiol, which have been identified as potentially important odorants that are not removed sufficiently by biological air filters. Light-expanded clay aggregates (Leca()) is a biotrickling filter material that contains iron oxides, which can oxidize H2S and methanethiol, and thus potentially may help to remove these two compounds in biological air filters. This study used on-line PTR-MS measurements to investigate the performances of two Leca() biotrickling filters (abraded Leca() filter and untreated Leca() filter) for removal of odorants and ammonia emitted from an experimental pig house. The results indicated that the abraded Leca() filter had a similar or slightly better capability for removing odorants than the untreated Leca() filter. This may be due to the enlargement of the surface area by the friction process. The volatile sulfur compounds, however, were not removed efficiently by either of the two Leca() filters. Kinetic analysis of a ventilation controlled experiment during the first period indicated that Grau second-order kinetics could be applied to analyze the removal of sulfur compounds and other odorants, whereas the Stover-Kincannon model could only be applied to analyze the removal of odorants other than sulfur compounds, partly due to the limitation of mass transfer of these compounds in the biotrickling filters. In the last measurement period, a production of dimethyl disulfide and dimethyltrisulfide coinciding with strongly enhanced removal of methanethiol was observed for the untreated filter. This was assumed to be enhanced by an incidence of low local air velocity in the filter and indicated involvement of iron-catalyzed reactions in the removal of sulfur compounds. 
CO uptake performance and life cycle assessment of CaO-based sorbents prepared from waste oyster shells blended with PMMA nanosphere scaffolds.	In this paper, we demonstrate a means of simultaneously solving two serious environmental issues by reutilization of calcinated mixture of pulverized waste oyster shells blending with poly(methyl methacrylate) (PMMA) nanospheres to prepare CaO-based sorbents for CO2 capture. After 10 cycles of isothermal carbonation/calcination at 750C, the greatest CO2 uptake (0.19 g CO2/g sorbent) was that for the sorbent featuring 70 wt% of PMMA, which was almost three times higher than that (0.07 g CO2/g sorbent) of untreated waste oyster shell. The greater CO2 uptake was likely a result of particle size reduction and afterwards surface basicity enhancement and an increase in the volume of mesopores and macropores. Following simplified life cycle assessment, whose all input values were collected from our experimental results, suggested that a significant CO2 emission reduction along with lesser human health and ecosystems impacts would be achieved immediately once waste is reutilized. Most importantly, the CO2 uptake efficiency must be greater than 20% or sorbents prepared from limestone mining would eventually produce a net positive CO2 emission.
Reduction of odours in pilot-scale landfill biocovers.	Unpleasant odours generated from waste management facilities represent an environmental and societal concern. This multi-year study documented odour and total reduced sulfur (TRS) abatement in four experimental landfill biocovers installed on the final cover of the Saint-Nicphore landfill (Canada). Performance was evaluated based on the reduction in odour and TRS concentrations between the raw biogas collected from a dedicated well and the emitted gases at the surface. Odour analyses were carried out by the sensorial technique of olfactometry, whereas TRS analyses followed the pulse fluorescence technique. The large difference of 2-5 orders of magnitude between raw biogas (average odour concentration=2,100,000OUm(-3)) and emitted gases resulted in odour removal efficiencies of close to 100% for all observations. With respect to TRS concentrations, abatement efficiencies were all greater than 95%, with values averaging 21,000ppb of eq. SO2 in the raw biogas. The influence of water infiltration on odour concentrations was documented and showed that lower odour values were obtained when the 48-h accumulated precipitation prior to sampling was higher. 
Quality and generation rate of solid residues in the boiler of a waste-to-energy plant.	The Danish waste management system relies significantly on waste-to-energy (WtE) plants. The ash produced at the energy recovery section (boiler ash) is classified as hazardous waste, and is commonly mixed with fly ash and air pollution control residues before disposal. In this study, a detailed characterization of boiler ash from a Danish grate-based mass burn type WtE was performed, to evaluate the potential for improving ash management. Samples were collected at 10 different points along the boiler's convective part, and analysed for grain size distribution, content of inorganic elements, polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD and PCDF), and leaching of metals. For all samples, PCDD and PCDF levels were below regulatory limits, while high pH values and leaching of e.g. Cl were critical. No significant differences were found between boiler ash from individual sections of the boiler, in terms of total content and leaching, indicating that separate management of individual ash fractions may not provide significant benefits. 
Heavy metal recovery combined with H production from artificial acid mine drainage using the microbial electrolysis cell.	The aim of this study was to utilize the microbial electrolysis cell (MEC) for metal removal from acid mine drainage (AMD) and simultaneous H2 production. A dual-chamber MEC was developed to concurrently produce H2 and remove Cu(2+), Ni(2+), and Fe(2+) from AMD under single and mixed metal conditions. With an applied voltage of 1.0V, Cu(2+) in the AMD was prior to others to be recovered at the cathode, followed by Ni(2+), and finally Fe(2+). The H2 production rates achieved during the AMD treatment were in the range of 0.4-1.1m(3)m(-3)d(-1), and the highest rate was obtained with the AMD containing single Cu(2+). The highest efficiency of cathode electron recovery reached 89%, which was obtained with the AMD containing mixed metals. The recovered electrons were used for both H2 production and metal reduction. The energy recovery efficiency of MEC reached up to 100%, suggesting that H2 generated from AMD was sufficient to offset the energy input during the treatment. The MEC was successfully applied to remove metals from the AMD, recover value-added products of Cu(0) and Ni(0), and to produce H2. 
Establishing and testing the "reuse potential" indicator for managing wastes as resources.	This study advances contemporary ideas promoting the importance of managing wastes as resources such as closed-loop or circular material economies, and sustainable materials management by reinforcing the notion of a resource-based paradigm rather than a waste-based one. It features the creation of a quantitative tool, the "reuse potential indicator" to specify how "resource-like" versus how "waste-like" specific materials are on a continuum. Even with increasing attention to waste reuse and resource conservation, constant changes in product composition and complexity have left material managers without adequate guidance to make decisions about what is technically feasible to recover from the discard stream even before markets can be considered. The reuse potential indicator is developed to aid management decision-making about waste based not on perception but more objectively on the technical ability of the materials to be reused in commerce. This new indicator is based on the extent of technological innovation and commercial application of actual reuse approaches identified and cataloged. Coal combustion by-products (CCBs) provide the test case for calculating the reuse potential indicator. While CCBs are often perceived as wastes and then isolated in landfills or surface impoundments, there is also a century-long history in the industry of developing technologies to reuse CCBs. The recent statistics show that most CCBs generated in Europe and Japan are reused (90-95%), but only 40-45% of CCBs are used in the United States. According to the reuse potential calculation, however, CCBs in the United States have high technical reusability. Of the four CCBs examined under three different regulatory schemes, reuse potential for boiler slag and flue-gas desulfurization gypsum maintains a value greater than 0.8 on a 0-1 scale, indicating they are at least 80% resource-like. Under current regulation in the United States, both fly ash and bottom ash are 80-90% resource-like. Very strict regulation would remove many reuse options decreasing potential for these two CCBs to 30% resource-like. A more holistic view of waste and broad application of the new indicator would make clear what technologies are available and assist public and private decision makers in setting quantitative material reuse targets from a new knowledge base that reinforces a resource-based paradigm. 
Kinetics of tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA) reactions with HSO, HNO and HCl: implication for hydrometallurgy of electronic wastes.	Hydrometallurgy is an acid leaching based process widely used for recovering precious metals from electronic wastes (e-wastes). The effects of acid leaching on the fate of brominated flame retardants (BFRs) in typical hydrometallurgical processes remain largely unknown. This study was aimed at evaluating the fate of tetrabromobisphenol A (TBBPA), a commonly used BFR, in three acid leaching reagents (i.e. H2SO4, HNO3, and HCl) commonly used in hydrometallurgy. It was found that the reactions of TBBPA with concentrated H2SO4 followed a pseudo-zero-order rate and the reaction rates declined rapidly as the concentrations of H2SO4 decreased. In contrast, TBBPA could be easily transformed in less concentrated HNO3 solutions (<21.7 wt%) and the reactions followed a pseudo-first-order rate. The reaction products identified by GC-MS indicated different transformation pathways of TBBPA in H2SO4 and HNO3. HCl or HCl/H2SO4 mixtures (3:1, v/v) did not appear to react with TBBPA, while aqua regia (3:1 HCl/HNO3, v/v) reacted violently with TBBPA and led to almost complete disappearance of TBBPA within a minute. It suggested that HNO3 significantly affected the fate of TBBPA and the use of HNO3 as leaching reagents in hydrometallurgy of e-wastes should be carefully evaluated. Collectively, our findings of distinct fate of TBBPA in different acid leaching reagents provided fundamental information for design of hydrometallurgical treatment of e-wastes to minimize acid reactions with BFRs within plastics matrix and to maximize acid leaching efficiency for metals recycling processes.
Effect of composting poultry carcasses on survival of exotic avian viruses: highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus and adenovirus of egg drop syndrome-76.	Eight-week-old chickens were inoculated with one of two exotic viruses to determine the effect of composting on virus survival. Group 1 chickens were inoculated with highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) virus via the caudal thoracic air sac. Group 2 chickens were inoculated with the adenovirus that causes egg drop syndrome-76 (EDS-76) by the oral route. Five days after inoculation, lung, trachea, and air sacs for HPAI and spleen, cecal tonsils, and bursa of Fabricius for EDS-76 were collected and composted with poultry carcasses. At the end of the first 10 days of composting, virus-isolation efforts showed that the HPAI virus had been inactivated, and only 1 of 20 tissue samples yielded the adenovirus of EDS-76. The viruses of HPAI and EDS-76 were completely inactivated at the end of the second 10-day period of the two-stage composting process. Control tissues collected at necropsy and frozen at -70 C for virus isolation were all positive for virus.
Development of microbiological technology of air deodoration in laboratory-industrial conditions using a pilot plant]	Laboratory tests were performed to select a complex of bacterial strains capable of effective deodoration of waste air produced by an animal formulated feed works under elevated temperature with the presence of numerous organic pollutants. The complex included species from the general Nocardia, Rhodococcus, and Comamonas. The biocatalyst was tested in a real industrial process with the use of a pilot plant for microbiological deodoration of waste air. The test lasted for over six months and confirmed the efficiency of the development method of deodoration.
Perspectives in agrobiotechnology.	This review surveys the most important and promising contributions of agricultural biotechnology to the development of sustainable, environment-friendly agriculture. It deals with the recent achievements of genetic technology for the development of new transgenic microbial, plant and animal products. It also deals with the newest developments and perspectives of microbial intervention in agricultural practices, such as biofertilizers, biocontrol agents, and various microbiological products used in modern agriculture. The review surveys the outlook for a waste-free, environment-friendly sustainable agricultural practice, including waste management, recycling and bioremediation technologies. The review lists the most important marketable agrobiotechnological products, and their present and projected sales volume.
