Increased risk of wasting syndrome in HIV-infected travellers: prospective multicentre study.	HIV-infected patients from moderate regions who travel in tropical countries may experience clinical disease progression due to exposure to bacteria (including mycobacteria), fungi and parasites. In the Swiss HIV Cohort Study we examined the hypothesis that travelling increases the risk of tuberculosis, wasting syndrome, cryptosporidiosis, isosporiasis, cryptococcosis, coccidiomycosis, histoplasmosis and Salmonella septicaemia. A total of 4549 participants were included (in 1988-98) of whom 596 (13.1%) travelled at least once. During 16,800 person-years of follow-up 231 patients developed at least 1 of the diseases of interest. Wasting syndrome was the only diagnosis significantly associated with travelling (hazard ratio 2.16, 95% confidence interval 1.09 to 4.30). The risk of wasting syndrome ('slim disease') should be taken into account when counselling HIV-infected patients intending to travel in tropical regions.
The prevalence of wasting, but not stunting, has improved in the Democratic People's Republic of Korea.	The Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) is one of the nutritionally vulnerable countries of the world. The objectives of this paper were to determine the current prevalence of undernutrition among children using data from the latest national survey and to compare the findings with those from the previous national survey in 1997. In 2002 with cooperation from UNICEF and the World Food Program (WFP), the government of the DPRK conducted a survey of 6000 households with children < 7 y old using multiple-stage sampling methods. Data were collected for sociodemographic variables, use of WFP food aid, and anthropometric measures of the youngest child in the household. The prevalence of stunting (height for age Z-score less than -2.0) in all children was 39.4% (40.2 and 38.5% for boys and girls, respectively). The prevalence of wasting (weight for height Z-score less than -2.0) was 8.2% in all children (9.1 and 7.3% for boys and girls, respectively). Although the prevalence of wasting has decreased from 1997 (16.5%) to 2002 (8.2%), the prevalence of stunting has not changed between those years, 38.2 vs. 39.4%. Thus, we conclude that acute undernutrition is decreasing in the DPRK, but chronic undernutrition that results in stunting is still highly prevalent. Continued surveillance of nutritional status of children in the DPRK is warranted given the continued state of undernutrition in that country.
Infection of pigs in Ireland with lymphotropic gamma-herpesviruses and relationship to postweaning multisystemic wasting syndrome.	Three species of porcine lymphotropic herpesviruses (PLHVs) have been described but there are few reports on the distribution and prevalence of these viruses in domestic pigs. We aimed to determine the PLHV status of Irish commercial pig herds, and to this end spleens taken from 110 healthy adult pigs sourced from 22 geographically distributed farms in Ireland were analysed for PLHV DNA using novel species-specific polymerase chain reaction assays. We now report that PLHV infection is widespread in the Irish domestic pig population and that PLHV-1 infections are most common (74% of all animals tested), followed by PLHV-3 and PLHV-2 (45% and 21%, respectively) and that infections with multiple PLHV species were frequently detected. As the PLHVs are lymphotrophic agents, we also investigated if co-infection with PLHVs was linked to the development of porcine circovirus-2 (PCV2)-associated postweaning mutlisystemic wasting syndrome (PMWS), a disease characterised in part by histopathological lesions in lymphoid tissues. We examined the PLHV infection status of young animals on two farms that were experiencing outbreaks of PMWS. Overall the findings are further evidence of the widespread prevalence of PLHVs in domestic pigs and are a first indication that co-infection with PCV2 and PLHVs does not lead to the development of PMWS in the absence of other cofactors.
An epidemiological study of health and nutritional status of under five children in semi-urban community of Gujarat.	In developing countries, children of 0-5 years of age form a large as well as "high risk" group. Malnutrition poses a grave risk to the health of these children. The main objectives of this study were to assess the health & nutritional status of children of 0-5 years of age group & to study the influence of various epidemiological factors on health & nutritional status of children on 0-5 years of age group. It is a community based cross sectional study done in randomly selected three wards of Petlad town, district Anand in Gujarat state. 300 children of age group 0-5 years selected by systematic sampling method. Mother of each child included in the study was subjected to personal interview in her own house followed by clinical examination & anthropometric measurements of the child. The three indices of nutritional status namely, weight for age, height for age, & weight for height were expressed in standard deviation units from the median for the international reference populations as per WHONCHS standards & were compared with WHONCHS growth reference data. The prevalence of under weight (wt. for age below 2SD) was 43.67%. 50.3% children were found stunted (ht. 1br age below -2 SID) with higher prevalence in 2nd and 5th year of life. Prevalence of wasting (wt. for ht. below 2SD) was comparatively low (23.2% with a peak in 3rd year of life). These nutritional parameters showed a significant association with parental education, socio-economic status, family size, environmental conditions (safe drink water, sanitary waste disposal & overcrowding), & episodes of common diseases.
Nutritional study of the 1-4 year old population of the Lower Jimi Valley, Western Highlands Province, Papua New Guinea.	Malnutrition is a significant problem in parts of Papua New Guinea, including the Lower Jimi Valley. There is evidence of specific nutritional deficiencies, such as endemic cretinism, but this study focused on protein-energy malnutrition. It found that, in the 1-4 year old population of three remote villages in the Jimi, only 26% were nutritionally normal, 65% were stunted, 7% were wasted and 2% were stunted and wasted. With respect to weight for age, 16% were 80-100% weight for age, 77% were 60-80% and 7% were < 60%. These figures are considerably higher than those of the National Nutrition Survey of 1982-1983; although the Survey data originated from the entire Jimi District rather than only the villages in this study, these findings suggest that malnutrition is a significant and worsening problem in the Lower Jimi Valley.
Effects of socio-economic and behavioural factors on childhood malnutrition in Yemen.	This study examined the effects of socio-economic and behavioural factors on childhood malnutrition in Yemen. The three anthropometric indicators such as height-for-age, weight-for-height and weight-for-age are used to examine the nutritional status of children aged less 5 years in Yemen. The independent variables include background characteristics, behavioural risk factors and illness characteristics. Data for the study come the most recent Yemen Demographic and Health Survey, a nationally representative sample, conducted in Yemen in 1997. Logistic regression analysis is used to estimate the odds of being malnourished. The three anthropometric indicators show high to very high levels of child malnutrition in Yemen. The prevalence of stunting and underweight is so widespread that almost every other child under the age of 5 is either stunted or underweight. Social, economic and behavioural factors show very significant association with childhood malnutrition. The study results indicate the importance of social and behavioural factors in describing childhood malnutrition in Yemen. The study results will help develop nutritional and health promotion policies in order to improve childhood malnutrition in this country.
Inadequate feeding practices and impaired growth among children from subsistence farming households in Sidama, Southern Ethiopia.	Whether current child feeding practices and behaviours among rural households in Sidama, Southern Ethiopia conform to the World Health Organization (WHO) guiding principles for complementary feeding is uncertain. We assessed socio-demographic status, anthropometry, breastfeeding, complementary feeding practices and behaviours, and motor development milestones in a convenience sample of 97 breastfed children aged 6-23 months from three rural Sidama communities. Energy and nutrient intakes from complementary foods were also calculated from 1-day in-home weighed records. Prevalence of stunting ranged from 25% for infants aged 6-8 months to 52% for children aged 12-23 months, whereas for wasting, the corresponding prevalence was 10% and 14%, respectively. Very few children were exclusively breastfed up to 6 months of age (n = 2), or received solids/semi-solids for the recommended minimum number of times containing the recommended number of food groups. Responsive feeding was not practised and no cellular animal products were consumed. Median intakes of energy, and intakes and densities of micronutrients from complementary foods (but not protein) were below WHO recommendations, assuming average breast milk intakes; greatest shortfalls were for retinol, vitamin C and calcium densities. Mothers of stunted children were shorter and lighter, and from households of lower socio-economic status than non-stunted children (P < 0.05). Acquisition of some motor development milestones was delayed in stunted infants compared with their non-stunted counter-parts. In conclusion, interventions that address the WHO guiding principles for complementary feeding practices and behaviours, as well as prenatal influences on growth, are urgently required in this setting.
A comparison of the National Center for Health Statistics and new World Health Organization growth references for school-age children and adolescents with the use of data from 11 low-income countries.	In 2007 new World Health Organization (WHO) growth references for children aged 5-19 y were introduced to replace the National Center for Health Statistics (NCHS) references.
