Decreased plasma atriopeptin response to volume-overloading maneuvers and exercise after atriopulmonary anastomosis of Fontan.	Atriopulmonary anastomosis results in a chronic right atrial pressure-volume overload. Water and salt retention is a frequent clinical observation in patients after atriopulmonary anastomosis. The purpose of this study was to examine if this could be related to an inability to increase already elevated circulating atriopeptin (ANP) in response to central volume-overloading conditions. Eighteen patients (mean age 16 +/- 6 years) with an atriopulmonary anastomosis underwent routine cardiac catheterization during which a 5-minute head-down 10 degrees tilt was performed. Peripheral venous and right atrial blood samples were obtained under basal conditions, and after tilting and angiography for determination of ANP concentrations. At a different time, circulating ANP levels were measured during a maximal graded exercise protocol. Increased circulating ANP concentrations were found under basal conditions (114 +/- 10 pg/ml). Tilting and cardioangiography resulted in significant increases in mean atrial pressure (basal: 12 +/- 0.7 mm Hg; tilt: 13.4 +/- 0.63 mm Hg; after angiography: 15.8 +/- 0.8 mm Hg), but not in atrial or peripheral ANP. Compared with the expected threefold increase in plasma ANP induced by maximal exercise in healthy control subjects, only a slight (0.25-fold) increase was found in patients. These observations suggest a reduced stimulus-release response after atriopulmonary anastomosis, which could be related to a loss of atrial stretch receptor sensitivity, achievement of the limit for maximal right atrial secretion, or an alteration in right atrial compliance, or a combination.
Excess osmolal gap in diabetic ketoacidosis explained.	Even in the absence of detectable ethanol or visible lipemia, a large plasma osmolal gap is the usual finding in cases of diabetic ketoacidosis. This gap decreases to an insignificant value within 20 h of treatment. Detailed biochemical analysis of six cases showed that, on average, the gap could be almost wholly accounted for by an increase in acetone, a decrease in the plasma water fraction, and smaller increments in amino acids and glycerol. Calculated plasma osmolality can seriously underestimate the true value in diabetic ketoacidosis, and so some previously observed anomalies may be explained.
Measured vs calculated plasma osmolality in infants with very low birth weights.	To determine the relationship between measured serum osmolality (MsOsm) and calculated osmolality and to examine factors that may affect the osmolal gap.
Muscle sympathetic nerve activity and renal responsiveness to atrial natriuretic factor during the development of hepatic ascites.	Sodium retention in cirrhosis has been attributed to an imbalance between vasoconstrictive antinatriuretic forces such as the sympathetic nervous system and vasodilatory natriuretic agents such as atrial natriuretic factor (ANF). With the development of refractory ascites, cirrhotic patients become unresponsive to the natriuretic effect of ANF. Animal data suggest that the sympathetic nervous system plays a key role in mediating the refractoriness to ANF. We therefore studied the relationship between sympathetic nerve activity (SNA) and the natriuretic response to ANF in normal subjects and cirrhotic patients. We also attempted to localize the intrarenal site of refractoriness to ANF by lithium clearance.
Usefulness of acid-base and electrolyte balance in acute gastroenteritis]	Blood analysis blood is frequently requested for evaluating patients with acute gastroenteritis who come to our emergency department, but there are few studies that determine its real usefulness in the management of these patients.
Clinical and laboratory assessment of dehydration severity in children with acute gastroenteritis.	To evaluate clinical and laboratory assessment of dehydration severity in children, 1 to 36 months, with acute gastroenteritis.
A prospective, randomized evaluation of intrapartum amnioinfusion. Fetal acid-base status and cesarean delivery.	Pregnancies with decreased amniotic fluid volume are prediposed to umbilical cord compression and variable fetal heart rate declerations. Intrapartum amnioinfusion has been utilized in an effort to reduce cord compression. Previous studies suggested that amnioinfusion may improve the fetal metabolic state and reduce the incidence of cesarean delivery in selected patients. In this study the hypothesis was tested that intrapartum amnioinfusion will relieve cord compression in pregnancies complicated by oligohydramnios and will result in a reduced incidence of fetal intolerance to labor as well as improved fetal acid-base status at delivery. Thirty-five patients fulfilling the inclusion criteria were randomized to either the control (n = 16) or amnioinfusion treatment group (n = 19). Analysis of the data suggested that the two groups were similar for the perinatal parameters evaluated. No differences were observed in the umbilical artery blood gas analysis or incidence of cesarean section between the two groups. Intrapartum amnioinfusion does not appear to improve the perinatal outcome in pregnancies with oligohydramnios.
The N-terminus and a 4,000-MW peptide from the midportion of the N-terminus of the atrial natriuretic factor prohormone each circulate in humans and increase in congestive heart failure.	Two peptides consisting of amino acids 1-30 and 31-67 of the N-terminus of the prohormone of atrial natriuretic factor (pro-ANF) that have vasodilatory and natriuretic properties were investigated to determine if they circulate in humans. Specific and sensitive radioimmunoassays were developed to amino acids 1-30, 31-67, and 99-126 of pro-ANF. Evaluation of human plasma that had been subjected to reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatography suggested that pro-ANFs 1-30 and 31-67 as well as ANF were distinct peaks in human plasma corresponding exactly to pure synthetic peaks of these peptides on high-pressure liquid chromatography. Molecular weight determination of the endogenous immunoreactive peptides measured in plasma by G-50 Sephadex gel permeation chromatography revealed that the pro-ANF 1-30 radioimmunoassay recognized a peptide of 10,000 MW, which is consistent with it measuring the whole N-terminus of pro-ANF (amino acids 1-98) but without ANF (C-terminus) attached to it. The pro-ANF 31-67 radioimmunoassay recognized mainly (more than 95%) a peptide of 3,900-4,000 MW, which corresponds closely with its actual molecular weight of 3,878. Our ANF radioimmunoassay recognizes a peptide in plasma of 3,000 MW with the known molecular weight of ANF being 3,081. The mean circulating concentrations of immunoreactive pro-ANF 1-98, pro-ANF 31-67, and ANF in 54 control subjects were 531 +/- 25, 371 +/- 18, and 22 +/- 1 fmol/ml (+/- SEM), respectively. Thirty patients with varying severity of congestive heart failure were also studied. The N-terminus, C-terminus, and pro-ANF 31-67 increased: twofold for New York Heart Association functional Class II, threefold to ninefold for Class III, and 10- to 20-fold for Class IV patients with congestive heart failure. Thus, the N-terminus and a 4,000-MW peptide from the midportion of the N-terminus of pro-ANF as well as ANF circulate normally and increased proportionately to the increasing severity of congestive heart failure. However, because the pro-ANF 31-67 radioimmunoassay was the only assay that discriminated between patients with Class I congestive heart failure and control subjects, this assay may be the most useful to accurately classify the severity of congestive heart failure.
Erythrocyte electrolyte abnormalities.	In contrast to lymphocytes and skeletal muscle cells, erythrocyte electrolytes may be easily determined. In this study Na, K, and Mg concentrations in plasma and erythrocytes of 100 consecutive ICU patients were compared to evaluate their potential clinical usefulness. The predictive indices of electrolyte changes in plasma vs. those in erythrocytes were low for all of the electrolytes studied. The erythrocyte Mg assessment was particularly useful for the high frequency of abnormalities observed, because it was less affected than plasma Mg by such transitory clinical states as hemodilution or lipolysis. The erythrocyte K was less frequently altered; no patient with a high K deficit was studied, excluding one patient with Crohn's disease. Finally, abnormally high erythrocyte Na levels correlated closely with some pathologic status, in particular respiratory failure.
Characteristics of disorders of water-electrolyte homeostasis in rats with transplantable hepatomas]	The growth of ascitic Zajdela and solid 27 hepatomas in vivo is accompanied by significant changes in parathyroid hormones, calcitonin and aldosterone blood levels. In periods close to terminal ones, their level decreases presumably as a result of energy deficiency in the endocrine glands. The arising hormonal shifts are a result of a "metabolic stress" caused by the growing tumour.
The incidence of the refeeding syndrome in cancer patients who receive artificial nutritional treatment]	We determine the incidence of the malnutrition syndrome and its relation with probable risk factors, in 106 patients, with a mean age of 53.3 +/- 15.4 years, with a diagnosis of cancer confirmed histologically, and who received artificial nutrition either enterally or endovenously, during an average of 16.8 +/- 2 days, which included a supply of 60 to 100 mmol/day of phosphorus. We considered there to be a renutrition syndrome when there as hypophosphatemia; < 2.5 mmol/l, which took place during the nutritional treatment phase, and previous to which, the patients had normal serum levels of phosphorus. The serum electrolyte concentrations were measured prior to the start of the treatment, and daily during the first week, and later every 3 days until the end. The study variables were: age, sex, type of cancer, degree of malnutrition, degree of hypophosphatemia, day on which in occurred, and clinical manifestations associated to this. The relative risk was calculated for the variables of age, sex, malnutrition and cancer. The incidence of the renutrition syndrome was 24.5%; it was more frequent in the enteral group than in the endovenous group (37.5% vs. 18.9%, p < 0.005); and it took place 72 hours after starting the nutritional support, in 61.5% of the cases, with a mean phosphorus concentrations of 1.9 mmol/l; the most frequent clinical manifestations were the neuromuscular ones (30%), and the most frequent type of cancer was lymphoma (15.4%). The risk factors were age greater than 60 years (RR = 1.7), and moderate or severe malnutrition 8RR = 2.0). We conclude that the prevalence of the renutrition syndrome is high in the cancer patients, despite an intense preventive treatment with phosphorus.
