The effect of sterile water blocks on low back labor pain.	To evaluate the analgesic effect of intradermal sterile water blocks, 272 women in labor complaining of severe low back pain were randomly assigned to treatment with either sterile water or saline solution blocks. Pain intensity was assessed on a visual analog scale, before the blocks were given and again 1 and 2 hours later. The groups were equal with regard to age, parity, fetal size, progression of labor, and initial pain scoring. Pain scoring 1 and 2 hours after the blocks were given showed a significantly higher degree of analgesia in the sterile water group. No adverse effects were noted, and patient acceptability was high.
Heavy water delays growth of human carcinoma in nude mice.	Deuterium-enriched water has an antiproliferative effect on transplantable mouse tumors without toxic side effects. Since the response to treatment of human carcinomas growing in nude mice is deemed to be a good indicator of the potential clinical behavior of these tumors, we studied the influence of this stable isotope of hydrogen on the growth of xenotransplanted human carcinomas of various histologic types, grades, and primary sites. Seven-week-old Balb/c-nu/nu mice were inoculated subcutaneously, either with oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas or with carcinomas of the large intestine. After tumor inoculation, the mice were given drinking water containing 30 atom% D2O. Heavy water effectively retarded the growth of the human carcinomas. At the end of the experiment, the weight of the tumors was reduced to values ranging from 22% to 65% of the control values. The reproducible antiproliferative effect was more conspicuous in poorly differentiated carcinomas than in moderately well-differentiated variants. Since animals in both groups, kept under identical conditions, drank the same amount of water and had similar body weights, the difference in tumor growth can be attributed to the moderate deuteration of the hosts.
Effect of some enzyme inducers, fluids, and methionine-thiosulfate on induced acute aflatoxicosis in goats.	Groups of four 6- to 12-month-old male goats were injected intraruminally with a lethal dose (3 mg/kg of body weight) of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1). Drugs were administered parenterally before (pretreatment) or beginning 8 hours after goats were doses with AFB1. These drugs were phenobarbital (PB), phenylbutazone (PBZ), piperonyl butoxide (PRO), benzoflavones, water, and 5% glucose solution (D5W). Most groups given the drugs after AFB1 was administered also were given intraperitoneal injections of methionine-sodium thiosulfate (MET-TS) solution. Clinical signs of toxicosis, serum aspartate aminotransferase activities, serum bilirubin concentrations, duration of illness, mortality, and gross and microscopic pathologic findings taken together indicated that toxicosis was increased with MET-TS + PB therapy, PBZ pretreatment, PBZ therapy, benzoflavone pretreatment, benzoflavone therapy, MET-TS + benzoflavone therapy, and MET-tS + water therapy. Toxicosis was not altered appreciably by MET-TS + PBO therapy. Beneficial effects (less severe toxicosis) were produced by PB pretreatment; these effects were prolonged maintenance of strength, vigor, and appetite and (in 1 goat that recovered) absence of pathologic changes or serum bilirubin increase. Therapy with MET-TS + D5W (but not MET-TS alone) also lengthened maintenance of strength, vigor, and appetite, but did not prevent pathologic changes. The beneficial effect of MET-TS therapy reported in a previous study (AFB2 dosage of 4 mg/kg) was not observed with the 3 mg/kg lethal dose. In conclusion, therapy for acute aflatoxicosis with inducers of hepatic microsomal enzymes is ineffective (PBO) or contraindicated (PB, PBZ, benzoflavones). Therapy with D5W may be a useful adjunct to other therapeutic drugs, but multiple intraperitoneal injections of D5W may decrease survival time because of stress.
