Managing water supply and sanitation services to developing communities: key success factors.	A number of key success factors in the management of organisations responsible for the provision of water supply and sanitation services to developing communities have been identified as critical to the sustained success of such organisations. These factors have to receive specific and sustained attention from management. They should form the focus of management attention in addition to the many other important factors requiring management input. The key success factors which are critical to ensure a sustained water supply and the provision of sanitation services to developing communities centre around two main areas, i.e. the credibility of the organisation with the community it serves and the creation of an organisation culture of focusing on service to the community, on income generation and on minimising of losses.
Surveillance data from swimming pool inspections--selected states and counties, United States, May--September 2002.	Swimming is the second most popular exercise activity in the United States, with approximately 360 million annual visits to recreational water venues (1). This exposure increases the potential for the spread of recreational water illnesses (RWIs) (e.g., cryptosporidiosis, giardiasis, and shigellosis). Since the 1980s, the number of reported RWI outbreaks has increased steadily (2). Local environmental health programs inspect public and semipublic pools periodically to determine compliance with local and state health regulations. During inspections for regulatory compliance, data pertaining to pool water chemistry, filtration and recirculation systems, and management and operations are collected. This report summarizes pool inspection data from databases at six sites across the United States collected during May 1--September 1, 2002. The findings underscore the utility of these data for public-health decision making and the need for increased training and vigilance by pool operators to ensure high-quality swimming pool water for use by the public.
The evaluation of effluent water toxicity for the activated sludge in water purification facilities]	The condition of activated sludge, which predetermines the efficiency of functioning of purification facilities, depends to a great extent on a toxicity degree of waste-waters coming for purification. The results of a study of toxicity of effluents of an industrial enterprise by using the methods of the chemical-and-analytic and toxicological monitoring are described in the article. The conducted investigations made it possible to specify an effluents' flow, which is most toxic for the activated-sludge microorganisms, for the purpose of its further localization.
Surveillance data from public spa inspections--United States, May-September 2002.	Approximately 5 million public and private hot tubs, whirlpools, and spas are used in the United States. Extensive spa use combined with inadequate maintenance contribute to recreational water illnesses (RWIs) caused by pathogens such as Pseudomonas spp., Legionella spp., and Mycobacterium spp. In the United States, local environmental health inspectors periodically inspect public spas to determine their compliance with local or state health regulations. During inspections for regulatory compliance, data pertaining to spa water chemistry, filtration and recirculation, and management and operations are collected. This report summarizes spa inspection data from six sites in the United States during May 1-September 1, 2002. The findings underscore the utility of these data for public health decision-making and the need for increased training and vigilance by operators to ensure high-quality spa water for use by the public.
Evaluation of wetland and tertiary wastewater treatments for estrogenicity using in vivo and in vitro assays.	The effects of wetland wastewater treatment on estrogenic activity and estrogenic activity of water after tertiary treatment were evaluated using in vivo (rainbow trout vitellogenin [VTG] expression) and in vitro (yeast estrogen screening) assays. Juvenile rainbow trout exposed to tertiary-treated wastewater from the Green Acres Treatment Plant in Orange County Water District had increased plasma VTG levels compared with control fish. When trout were exposed to wastewater-dominated water before it entered into Prado Wetland (Riverside County, CA), VTG concentrations were increased above those of controls and were not significantly different from fish exposed to water exiting the wetland. VTG E2-equivalent concentrations (EEQs) of the water samples from the Green Acres Plant were 16.92 +/- 16.49 ng/L. Activity of water entering Prado Wetland was 29.80 +/- 28.41 ng/L EEQ, and water exiting was 24.34 +/- 23.17 ng/L EEQ. In vitro assays estimated that estrogenic activity of water from the Green Acres Plant was <1 ng/L EEQ, whereas water entering and exiting Prado Wetland had yeast estrogen screening EEQs of 2.57 and <1 ng/L, respectively. Our results suggest that environmental estrogens that are not potent estrogen-receptor ligands exist in wastewaters from the Green Acres Plant as well as water entering and exiting Prado Wetland. Wetland treatment did not remove environmental estrogens in the water. Our results also suggest that in vitro assays may underestimate estrogenic activity of sampled water.
Interpreting drinking water quality in the distribution system using Dempster-Shafer theory of evidence.	Interpreting water quality data routinely generated for control and monitoring purposes in water distribution systems is a complicated task for utility managers. In fact, data for diverse water quality indicators (physico-chemical and microbiological) are generated at different times and at different locations in the distribution system. To simplify and improve the understanding and the interpretation of water quality, methodologies for aggregation and fusion of data must be developed. In this paper, the Dempster-Shafer theory also called theory of evidence is introduced as a potential methodology for interpreting water quality data. The conceptual basis of this methodology and the process for its implementation are presented by two applications. The first application deals with the interpretation of spatial water quality data fusion, while the second application deals with the development of water quality index based on key monitored indicators. Based on the obtained results, the authors discuss the potential contribution of theory of evidence as a decision-making tool for water quality management.
Estimation of the levels of heavy metals in the water courses and drinking water in the south of the Issyk-Kul Region]	The levels of heavy metals were determined in the river and drinking waters of the localities of the Ton and Jety-Oguz Districts of the Issyk-Kul Region. The quality of water was tested for the content of 11 heavy metals (Be, Pb, Cd, Ni, Co, Cr6+, Zn, Ba, Sr, TI, Sn) by emission spectral analysis in 1990-2000. The analysis of the findings indicated that the water levels of the heavy metals, met the sanitary requirements for drinking water, except for those of chromium whose content in the Barskoon and Chon-Kyzyl-Suu rivers in the cold period of 1999 was 2-3 times higher than the allowable levels. There were seasonal variations in the concentrations of heavy metals in the river waters. In most cases, the concentrations of most metals increase in the warm period of a year. The concentrations of heavy metals tended to increase in the river water in 2000 versus 1999.
A multitracer test proving the reliability of Rayleigh equation-based approach for assessing biodegradation in a BTEX contaminated aquifer.	Compound-specific stable isotope analysis (CSIA) is one of the most important methods for assessing biodegradation activities in contaminated aquifers. Although the concept is straightforward, the proof that the method cannot be only used for a qualitative analysis but also to quantify biodegradation in the subsurface was missing. We therefore performed a multitracer test in the field with ring-deuterated (d5) and completely (d8) deuterium-labeled toluene isotopologues (400 g) as reactive tracers as well as bromide as a conservative tracer. The compounds were injected into the anoxic zone of a BTEX plume located down-gradient of the contaminant source. Over a period of 4.5 months the tracer concentrations were analyzed at two control planes located 24 and 35 m downgradient of the injection well. Deuterium-labeled benzylsuccinate was found in the aquifer, indicating the anaerobic biodegradation of deuterated toluene via the benzylsuccinate synthase pathway. Three independent methods were applied to quantify biodegradation of deuterated toluene. First, fractionation of toluene-d8 and toluene-d5 using the Rayleigh equation and an appropriate laboratory-derived isotope fractionation factor was used for the calculation of the microbial decomposition of deuterated toluene isotopologues (CSIA-method). Second, the biodegradation was quantified by the changes of the concentrations of deuterated toluene relative to bromide. Both methods gave similar results, implying that the CSIA-method is a reliable tool to quantify biodegradation in contaminated aquifers. The results of both methods yielded a biodegradation of deuterated toluene isotopologues of approximately 23-29% for the first and 44-51% for the second control plane. Third, the mineralization of deuterated toluene isotopologues was verified by determination of the enrichment of deuterium in the groundwater. This method indicated that parts of deuterium were assimilated into the biomass of toluene degrading microorganisms.
Uncertainties of spectral in situ measurements in wastewater using different calibration approaches.	Three calibration methods were applied to UV/VIS spectra recorded in the influent of six wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) to measure total COD (CODtot), filtered COD (CODfil), nitrate and nitrite nitrogen (NO(x)-N) and total suspended solids (TSS). It could be shown that a calibration of the sensor using data sets from four Swiss WWTPs leads to an improvement of the precision in comparison to the global calibration provided by the manufacturer. A calibration to the specific wastewater matrix always improves the results and gives the highest accuracy. For CODtot a mean coefficient of variation CVx of 12.5% could be reached, whereas for NOx-N only weak results were achieved (average CVx = 36%).
Fecal bacteria in the rivers of the Seine drainage network (France): sources, fate and modelling.	The Seine river watershed (France) is a deeply anthropogenically impacted area, due to the high population density, intense industrial activities and intensive agriculture. The water quality and ecological functioning of the different rivers of the Seine drainage network have been extensively studied during the last fifteen years within the framework of a large French multidisciplinary scientific program (PIREN Seine program). This paper presents a synthesis of the main data gained in the scope of this program concerning the microbiological water contamination of the rivers of the Seine drainage network. The more common indicator of fecal contamination (fecal coliforms) was mainly used; some complementary works used E. coli and intestinal enterococci as alternative fecal indicators. Point sources (outfall of wastewater treatment plants) and non point sources (surface runoff and soil leaching) of fecal pollution to the rivers of the watershed were quantified. Results showed that, at the scale of a large urbanised watershed as the Seine basin, the input of fecal micro-organisms by non-point sources is much lower than the inputs by point sources. However, the local impact of diffuse non-human sources (especially surface runoff of pastured fields) can be of major importance on the microbiological quality of small headwater rivers. Fecal contamination of the main rivers of the Seine watershed (Seine, Marne, Oise rivers) was studied showing high level of microbiological pollution when compared to European guidelines for bathing waters. The strong negative impact of treated wastewater effluents outfall on the microbiological quality of receiving rivers was observed in different areas of the watershed. Once released in rivers, culturable fecal bacteria disappeared relatively rapidly due to mortality (protozoan grazing, lysis) or loss of culturability induced by stress conditions (sunlight effect, nutrient concentration, temperature). Mortality rates of E. coli were studied in different types of rivers within the watershed showing, in summer conditions, no major difference in the mortality rates in small and large rivers. As a result of these studies, a module describing the dynamics of fecal bacteria has been developed and embedded within a hydro-ecological model describing the functioning of the rivers of the whole watershed (the SENEQUE model). Once validated, such a model can be used for testing predictive scenarios and thus can be a very useful tool for the management of microbiological water quality at the scale of the whole basin.
Interventions to improve water quality for preventing diarrhoea: systematic review and meta-analysis.	To assess the effectiveness of interventions to improve the microbial quality of drinking water for preventing diarrhoea.
Chlorination and bacterial contamination. Hospitals with troubled waters]	To know the quality of the water from hospitals and the risks that poor chlorination implies.
Induction of micronucleus and nuclear alterations in fish (Oreochromis niloticus) by a petroleum refinery effluent.	In this study, micronucleus and nuclear alterations tests were performed on erythrocytes of Oreochromis niloticus (Perciformes, Cichlidae) in order to evaluate the water quality of the Atibaia river, in an area that receives effluents discharge of a petroleum refinery and also to evaluate the effectiveness of the treatments used by the refinery. Water samples were collected in five different sites related with a refinery from São Paulo State, Brazil. For the micronucleus and nuclear alterations tests, O. niloticus specimens were exposed for 72 h to the water samples and in pure ground water (negative control). The results herein obtained indicated that the treatments used by the refinery diminished the cytogenetic damage; however they were not fully effective, since the final mill has induced damages in the genetic material of the test organism.
Torque teno virus: an improved indicator for viral pathogens in drinking waters.	Currently applied indicator organism systems, such as coliforms, are not fully protective of public health from enteric viruses in water sources. Waterborne disease outbreaks have occurred in systems that tested negative for coliforms, and positive coliform results do not necessarily correlate with viral risk. It is widely recognized that bacterial indicators do not co-occur exclusively with infectious viruses, nor do they respond in the same manner to environmental or engineered stressors. Thus, a more appropriate indicator of health risks from infectious enteric viruses is needed.
Abundance and persistence of antibiotic resistance genes in livestock farms: a comprehensive investigation in eastern China.	Increases of antibiotic resistance genes in the environment may pose a threat to public health. The purpose of this study was to investigate the abundance and diversity of tetracycline (tet) and sulfonamide (sul) resistance genes in eight livestock farms in Hangzhou, eastern China. Ten tet genes (tetA, tetB, tetC, tetG, tetL, tetM, tetO, tetQ, tetW, and tetX), two sul genes (sulI and sulII), and one genetic element associated with mobile antibiotic resistance genes [class 1 integron (intI1)] were quantified by real-time polymerase chain reaction. No significant difference was found in the abundance of the tet and sul genes in various scales of pig, chicken, and duck farms (P>0.05). The average abundance of ribosomal protection protein genes (tetQ, tetM, tetW, and tetO) in the manure and wastewater samples was higher than most of the efflux pump genes (tetA, tetB, tetC, and tetL) and enzymatic modification gene (tetX) (P<0.05), except for efflux pump gene tetG, which was abundant and showed no difference from tetM. Most ARGs had higher relative abundance in the wastewater lagoon than in manures even after treatment. Although the three ribosomal protection protein genes (tetQ, tetW, and tetO) had higher relative abundance, numbers were reduced during the complete wastewater treatment process in pig farms (P<0.05). The relative abundance of tetG, sulI, and sulII increased after the wastewater treatment and the removal of these three genes exhibited significant positive correlations with the intI1 gene (tetG: R(2)=0.60, P<0.05; sulI: R(2)=0.72, P<0.05; sulII: R(2)=0.62, P<0.05), suggesting that intI1 may be involved in their proliferation. As for tetM and sulII genes, a highly significant difference was found in manure samples between pig farms and duck farms (P<0.001). Phylogenetic analysis showed that tetM was more diverse in duck farms than in pig farms. Additionally, sulII sequence was conserved both in pig and duck farms. This is the first comprehensive study to detail the relative abundance of specific ARGs in animal manures and agricultural wastewater treatment systems, potentially providing knowledge for managing antibiotic resistance emanating from agricultural activities. 
Quantitative and qualitative impact of hospital effluent on dissemination of the integron pool.	There is increasing evidence that human activity, and especially the resulting effluent, has a major role in the dissemination of bacterial antibiotic-resistance determinants in the environment. Hospitals are the major antibiotic consumers and thus facilitate the spread of antibiotic resistance. Questions are increasingly being raised about the management of hospital effluents, but their involvement in antibiotic-resistance dissemination has never been assessed. Integrons are a paradigm of genetic transfer between the environmental resistome and both commensal and pathogenic bacteria. In order to assess the impact of hospital activities on antibiotic-resistance dissemination in the environment, we monitored integrons and their gene cassettes in hospital effluents, and their release in the environment. We found that bacterial communities present in a hospital effluent contained a high proportion of integrons. In terms of both their gene cassette diversity and gene cassette arrays, the urban effluent and municipal wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) influent were most similar, whereas the hospital effluent and recirculation sludge exhibited very specific patterns. We found that anthropogenic activities led to the release of abundant integrons and antibiotic-resistance gene cassettes, but we observed no specific impact of hospital activities on the receiving environment. Furthermore, although the WWTP did not reduce the normalized integron copy number, it reduced the diversity of gene cassette arrays contained in the raw wastewater, underlining the effect of the biological treatment on the anthropogenic integron pool arriving at the WWTP.
