Incorporation of organic tritium (3H) by marine organisms and sediment in the severn estuary/Bristol channel (UK).	Discharges of tritium (3H) into the Severn estuary/Bristol Channel (UK) arise from the authorized release of wastes from nuclear power plants at Hinkley Point and Berkley/Oldbury and from the Nycomed-Amersham radiochemical plant, via the sewer system, at Cardiff. The wastes from the nuclear power plants probably consist almost entirely of 3H2O, whereas those from the radiochemical plant also include uncharacterized 3H labelled organic compounds. The total 3H concentrations in demersal fish and other benthic organisms in the vicinity of the Cardiff Eastern sewer outfall are significantly elevated compared to those observed around other UK nuclear establishments. Concentrations in filtered seawater were approximately 10 Bq kg(-1) whilst levels in surface sediment, seaweed (Fucus vesiculosis) and mussels (Mytilus edulis)/flounder (Platichthys flesus) were in the order of 6 x 10(2), 2 x 10(3), and 10(5) Bq kg(-1) (dry weight), respectively. Almost all the 3H found in sediment and biota were organically bound tritium (OBT). The high concentration in these materials, relative to that in seawater, is due to the presence of bioavailable organic 3H labelled compounds in the radiochemical waste. It is suggested that bioaccumulation of 3H by benthic organisms and demersal fish occurs primarily via a pathway of physico-chemical sorption/bacterial transformation of dissolved 3H labelled organic compounds into particulate organic matter, and subsequent transfer up a web of sediment dwelling microbes and meiofauna. Variations in 3H accumulation between individual organisms have been interpreted in terms of their different feeding behaviour. Relatively low concentrations were observed in the herbivorous winkle (Littorina littorea) and the pelagic Sprat (Spratus spratus) compared with other benthic organisms and demersal fish. The elevated 3H concentrations in seafood, due to bioaccumulation of OBT, have low radiological significance even for the local critical group of seafood consumers.
Simulating bioremediation of uranium-contaminated aquifers; uncertainty assessment of model parameters.	Bioremediation of trace metals and radionuclides in groundwater may require the manipulation of redox conditions via the injection of a carbon source. For example, after nitrate has been reduced, soluble U(VI) can be reduced simultaneously with other electron acceptors such as Fe(III) or sulfate to U(IV), which may precipitate as a solid (uraninite). To simulate the numerous biogeochemical processes that will occur during the bioremediation of trace-metal-contaminated aquifers, a time-dependent one-dimensional reactive transport model has been developed. The model consists of a set of coupled mass balance equations, accounting for advection, hydrodynamic dispersion, and a kinetic formulation of the biological or chemical transformations affecting an organic substrate, electron acceptors, corresponding reduced species, and trace metal contaminants of interest, uranium in this study. This set of equations is solved numerically, using a finite difference approximation. The redox conditions of the domain are characterized by estimating the pE, based on the concentration of the dominant terminal electron acceptor and its corresponding reduced species. This pE and the concentrations of relevant species are then used by a modified version of MINTEQA2, which calculates the speciation/sorption and precipitation/dissolution of the species of interest under equilibrium conditions. Kinetics of precipitation/dissolution processes are described as being proportional to the difference between the actual and calculated equilibrium concentration. A global uncertainty assessment, determined by Random Sampling High Dimensional Model Representation (RS-HDMR), was performed to attain a phenomenological understanding of the origins of output variability and to suggest input parameter refinements as well as to provide guidance for field experiments to improve the quality of the model predictions. By decomposing the model output variance into its different input contributions, RS-HDMR can identify the model inputs with the most influence on various model outputs, as well as their behavior pattern on the model output. Simulations are performed to illustrate the effect of biostimulation on the fate of uranium in a saturated aquifer, and to identify the key processes that need to be characterized with the highest accuracy prior to designing a uranium bioremediation scheme.
Resistance of solid-phase U(VI) to microbial reduction during in situ bioremediation of uranium-contaminated groundwater.	Speciation of solid-phase uranium in uranium-contaminated subsurface sediments undergoing uranium bioremediation demonstrated that although microbial reduction of soluble U(VI) readily immobilized uranium as U(IV), a substantial portion of the U(VI) in the aquifer was strongly associated with the sediments and was not microbially reducible. These results have important implications for in situ uranium bioremediation strategies.
Seasonal and spatial variations of 210Po and 210Pb activity concentrations in Mytilus galloprovincialis from Croatian coast of the Adriatic Sea.	Results of 2 years monitoring of (210)Po and (210)Pb activity concentrations in soft tissue of the species Mytilus galloprovincialis from Croatian part of the Adriatic coast are presented. The samples were collected at thirteen coastal stations (some of which are also a part of the Mediterranean Mussel Watch Project) in spring and autumn of 2010 and 2011. The collected mussels were ranging between 4 cm and 6 cm in shell length. After sample pre-treatment lead and polonium were radiochemically separated on Sr resin. (210)Po was determined by alpha-particle spectrometry and (210)Pb was determined, via (210)Bi, by a low-level gas proportional counter. The results of (210)Po activity concentrations were found to vary between (104±11) and (1421±81) Bq kg(-1) dry weight while (210)Pb activity concentrations were much lower and in range (8.2±5.3)-(94.1±29.8) Bq kg(-1) dry weight. Higher (210)Po and (210)Pb activity concentrations were determined in spring period. The inter-site differences seen in their activity concentrations can be due to natural background levels of sites. The (210)Po/(210)Pb activity concentration ratios in all cases exceeded unity for all mussel samples and ranged between 4.0 and 47.9.
